JOINTS, DISEASES OF 67 While the application of ice or leeches to the joint is recommended by some authorities, others prefer an antiseptic compress of 2| per cent carbolic lotion or 1 per cent formalin. A more important question is that of evacuating the fluid in the joint. If the latter is in suffi- cient quantity to cause tension, or if it tend to persist, or if from the temperature and other indications there is reason to suspect that it is purulent, it should be evacuated without delay. A trocar and cannula may suffice in the serous variety; the suppurative forms demand incision and drainage. In addition, the joint may be gently washed out with salt solution, with or without a preliminary washing with an anti- septic (1 in 2000 corrosive sublimate). It is a common experience that many forms of acute suppuration in joints (e.//. the acute arthritis of infants, the suppurations in pyjemia) yield at once to incision and drainage, if carried out sufficiently early and before any destructive changes have taken place. On the other hand the results of simple drainage may be unsatisfactory. The tempera- ture and other indications of progressive mis- chief may call for further interference. Con- tinuous irrigation, with multiple openings for drainage, may be given a trial, or the joint must be laid freely open so that every pocket and recess will be exposed to view. In certain joints this is only attainable by resecting one or other of the bones belonging to it. Amputation is to be had recourse to, if life is threatened by general infection, or if the limb is likely to be useless. It goes without saying that the occurrence of suppuration in the periarticular soft parts, or in one of the adjacent bones, must be looked for and promptly dealt with. When convalescence is established attention is directed to the restoration of the functions of the limb, to the prevention of stiffness and deformity by movements, massage, hot air and other baths (see p. 65). At a later stage, and especially in neglected cases, operative and other measures may be required for deformity or stiffness. For details of treatment see the individual joints. In typhoid fever joint lesions may resiilt from infection with the typhoid bacillus, or with ordinary pyogenic organisms. They have been observed, especially in the hip-joint, in the shape of an arthritis, with or without suppuration. They are sometimes remarkably latent, and may result in spontaneous dislocation (on slight movement, or on lifting the patient), or in an- kylosis. They are very amenable to treatment. In acute pneumonia different forms of arthritis occur, due to the pneumococcus. They are sometimes serous, sometimes of an acute sup- purative character. The prognosis is described as unfavourable, because of the frequent occur- rence of similar lesions in other serous mem- branes, viz., pleurisy, pericarditis, meningitis. In smalljMx it is not known whether the joint lesions are due to the specific virus of that disease or to ordinary pyogenic organisms. They may be serous in character like those of acute rheumatism, and may pass from one joint to another. The purulent forms are met with in relation to the suppurative stage of the skin eruption. In scarlet fever joint lesions are comparatively common. They were formerly described as scarlatinal rheumatism. Our knowledge of their bacteriological nature is very imperfect. The most frequent clinical type is that of a serous synovitis, occurring within a week or ten days from the onset of the fevei', more common in persons over fifteen years and in females. Its favourite seat is in the hand and wrist, involving the sheaths of the extensor tendons as well as the joints. It does not tend to migrate to other joints, and it rarely lasts longer than a few days ; it is probably due to the specific virus of scarlatina. Joint lesions more closely resembling those from ordinary pyogenic infection are much less frequent than the preceding type ; they occur more often in children, at a later stage of the fever, and in cases in which the throat lesion is severe. The arthritis may be acute and suppurative, may affect several joints, and may exhibit a grave septicsemic or pyaemic character. Authorities also describe a "true rheumatic arthritis" occurring when convalescence from scarlet fever is well advanced, favourably influenced by anti-rheumatic remedies, and sometimes complicated with endocarditis and with chorea. In measles joint lesions are much rarer, and are said to be less serious than in scarlet fever. In diphtheria they are also very rare. A hydrops of the knee has been recorded during the second week of the disease in which Loeffler's bacillus was present. Probably the majority of the joint complications in diphtheria are related to streptococci, which enter the body by way of the throat lesion. In erysipelas effusion into joints is very exceptional. It may be purulent. Streptococci have been found in the fluid. Sometimes the joint is infected when erysipelas passes over it. In dysentery the joints are occasionally affected. Two varieties of lesion are described—a dry form in which there is polyarticular pain affect- ing different joints with great rapidity and un- accompanied by effusion; the second, which is especially met with in the knee, is attended with an abundant exudation, strongly fibrinous in character, but in which no organisms, amoebic or otherwise, have been found. From the tendency of the fluid to persist it is usually necessary to evacuate it through a cannula. The joint lesions which accompany acute rheumatism may be provisionally included with