182 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM rising up in front of the symphysis in the same way as the occiput does in vertex presentations. The head is now free to move on the shoulders. These have by this time rotated into the right oblique diameter, the right shoulder being to the front as at the beginning. The face therefore looks towards the mother's right thigh, and restitution takes place exactly as in vertex positions. Second Face Position.—Left Mento-posterior. —The face here lies in the left oblique diameter of the brim, with the forehead to the front. Diagnosis.—The back of the child is to the right and the limbs to the left. The angle between the back and occiput, felt per abdomen, is on the right side, and the foetal heart, if heard, is on the left. On vaginal examination the left cheek is anterior; the bridge of the nose can be traced backwards and downwards to the mouth and chin. Meclmnism.— The head descends, passing the brim on the left oblique diameter; and after that it follows, mutatis mutandis, the same course as that just described for the first facial mechanism. In the first and second facial positions it will be noticed that the chin has to make a long rotation of three-eighths of a circle to reach the space under the pubes, thus contrasting with the corresponding vertex positions, in which the rotation of the occiput is the shorter one of one-eighth of a circle. In the third and fourth facial mechanisms, on the contrary, the rotation of the chin is a short one, while it will be remembered that the third and fourth vertex cases tmdei'go a long rotation. Third Face Position.—Left Mentoanterior. —The face lies in the right oblique diameter of the brim, with the forehead backwards. Diagnosis.—-The back of the foetus is to the right, and the limbs to the left. The foetal heart is heard on the left. The left cheek is to the front; the bridge of the nose can be traced forwards and downwards toward the mouth and chin. Mechanism. — As the head descends the mechanism is simple. The chin is directed forwards, rotating through one-eighth of a circle, till it comes into the sub-pubic space. The head is then born by flexion, as has been described in the first facial position, when it has reached this stage. The shoulders are in the left oblique diameter of the pelvis, the left shoulder being in front. As they rotate into the antero-posterior diameter at the outlet the face undergoes restitution, and looks directly to the left, just as in the third vertex position. Fourth Face Position. —Right Mento-anterior. —The position and relations in this mechanism are the same as in the last described one, " left" being substituted for "right," and vice versd. The mechanism corresponds. If we now contrast the mechanism in vertex cases on the one hand with that of face cases on the other, it will be seen that the following are the most important points of difference :— In vertex cases there is flexion at the begin- ning ; the third position rotates into the second, and the fourth into the first. Delivery of the head is accomplished by extension. In face cases there is extension at the begin- ning ; the second position rotates into the third, and the first into the fourth. The head is delivered by flexion. Also, in mento-posterior positions, reduction can, and usually does, occur later than in occipito-posterior ones. Moulding of the Head.—The head in face presentations does not lie with its long axis so nearly parallel to that of the parturient canal as is the case in vertex presentations; and so, although the longest axis of the ovoid is the one which is, on the whole, lengthened, the diameters which are shortened are not exactly the same as in the vertex moulding. The lengthening takes place along the fronto-occipital and mento-occipital diameters; the shortening along the cervico-vertical diameter, or one close to it. The occipital region is compressed between the back of the neck and the wall of the birth-canal, and is therefore squeezed into a rather sharply-pointed wedge. There is, in face cases, a peculiar and some- what unaccountable prominence of the forehead, in spite of the fact that the face is compressed along its vertical diameter. This is due to the greater firmness of the frontal bone, which, in addition to the fact of its being of greater thick- ness at its lower part than the other bones forming the vault of the skull, is also really part of the base of the skull as far as its orbital portion is concerned, and is therefore not easily bent. The caput succedaneum is usually formed when the face is at the vulva, or close to it, and lies near the angle of the mouth—on the right side in first and fourth positions, and on the left in second and third positions. If a caput is formed while the head is still within the OS, or high up in the canal, it will appear in the mento-posterior poo'^ions somewhere near the left or right eye, accoiJing to which eye lies to the front. The tumour is sometimes very large, and is not seldom the seat of much ecchymosis. Persistent Mento-posterior Mechanism.—The chin sometimes fails to rotate forwards, just as in the case of a posterior occiput. This is very rare, for the mento-frontal measurement, which is about 3 J inches, does not prevent rotation by its length in regard to the transverse diameter of the cavity, as happens in the case of the fronto-occipital diameter in persistent occipito- posterior positions (p. 178). The chin comes forward under the influence of the pelvic floor