LIVER—TEOPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 495 the shoulder-ache is more definite and concen- trated ; vomiting and retching are more pro- nounced and frequent; and blood is more often present in the vomit. The thoracic movements in hepatitis are shallow in the extreme; the abdomen is rigid; and even the weight of the bed-clothes causes discomfort. Restlessness, irritability, impossibility of lying on either side or flat on the back with a low pillow, aid in the diagnosis. The patient prefers to sit propped up in bed with a support to the back and with the knees flexed in a semi-sitting posture. The tongue is usually red, except on the posterior part, where it is coated with a dry brownish-yellow fur; thirst is distressing; vomit- ing of bilious matter, becoming ultimately of a watery greenish appearance, attended by violent retching, may be incessant, causing exhaustion and at times collapse. The bowels may remain inoperative, probably from paresis, for days, or an acrid fluid diarrhoea prevails with fre- quent calls to stool. The contents of the bowel when expelled possess a foul smell, inducing frequently an attack of vomiting before the patient leaves the closet. The urine is scanty, high-coloured, and loaded with urates; occasionally albumin is present, and the amount of urea varies from day to day, now increased, now diminished in quantity. The pulse is quick, hard, and full; the breathing is shallow ; and a dry cough, causing at times acute suffering, is always dreaded by the patient. The liver, when examined, in primary hepa- titis will be found increased in area in every direction. The upper limit of dulness may extend as high as the nipple; and far beyond the costal margin, it may reach to just above the umbilicus. In other cases the area of the liver dulness may not be so pronouncedly in- creased. In hepatitis associated with spirit drinking there may be little or no enlargement, owing, no doubt, to the presence of cirrhosis, but in primary hepatitis the increase in size is usually as described. On percussion, palpation, and movement of the liver (by a hand placed back and front) acute pain is complained of; and when perihepatitis is present, as is so often the case, the agony of pain caused by the examination causes positive dread of its being- repeated. Jaundice, even in a mild degree, is quite exceptional. When malaria is the cause of hepatitis the spleen will be found enlarged; but in non- malarial forms of the disease it is not usual to find the area of the spleen increased in size. Dysentery may precede, may appear simul- taneously with, or may occur during an attack of hepatitis. Should any of these conditions prevail, there is great likelihood of the inflam- mation ending in suppuration. An attack of simple hepatitis usually lasts a week or ten days. Morbid Anatomy.—Opportunities of examin- ing the liver post-mortem in the initial stage of acute hepatitis seldom occur; but in post- mortem examinations of patients dead of acute malarial diseases, the following changes will be noted:— (1) The liver may be considerably or only somewhat enlarged, and of a dusky, pigmented, slate-grey appearance. When cut into, the vessels will be found charged with blood, and the parenchyma of the liver markedly softened. Perihepatitis is commonly found to a greater or less extent, and the general capsule is thickened. (2) When the blood of the liver is examined microscopically in the early stages of acute malarial disease, the capillaries will be found to contain numbers of pigment-laden cells clinging to the walls of the blood-vessels or accumulated in masses forming actual thrombi. The cells are leucocytes, phagocytes, or the large white cells derived from the splenic tissue, and containing, it may be, not only melanin, but incorporated infected blood corpuscles, free malarial parasites, and even the products of hfemoglobinic disintegration. These macro- phages and pigment-laden cells are carried by the splenic vein from the spleen, where the cells laden with the malarial parasites seem to have deposited their burden, as but compara- tively few malarial parasites are met with in the blood of the liver capillaries. At this stage the cells of the liver show a cloudy swelling. (3) At a later stage of the malarial infection, the characteristic melanin will be found incor- porated in the endothelium lining of the cells. The pigmented endothelial cells swell and still further tend to block the capillary channels and produce areas of stains, with the result that atrophy or necrosis of some of the liver lobules occurs and the vascular network dilates. (4) At a still later period the melanosis is found to be extravascular and the pigment infests the whole lobule, but accumulates chiefly at the periphery. The phagocytes are mean- while actively engaged in removing the detritus left in the necrot^ic patch, and a process of re- generation of the liver parenchyma commences. (5) The melanin, in course of time, reaches the outer rim of the lobule and becomes peri- or inter-lobular and extravascular. A slate- grey coloured rim is seen around each lobule, the lobule itself appearing of a brownish tinge within its darker ring of pigment. (6) Finally the pigment diminishes and then disappears, leaving the liver enlarged and granular, the lobules distinct and surrounded by a pinkish-tinged hyperplastic connective tissue. The disappearance of the malarial melanin from the parenchyma of the liver is effected no doubt by the mononuclear and polymorpho- nuclear cells, which carry their burden to the lymphatics and the lymphatic glands. In the