LARYNX, LARYNGISMUS STRIDULUS 374 disease generally sets in between the sixth and twenty-fourth months of life, and it comparatively rarely begins before or after these ages. It is commoner in boys than in girls. Several cases are apt to occur in the same family. Reflex Causes.—Such sources of reflex irrita- tion as painful gums from teething, and adenoid growths, are often thought to have something to do with its causation. Enlargement of the thymus is no longer regarded as a cause ; but it is probable that enlargement of the bronchial glands may be, and the presence of hydro- cephalus certainly is so. Time of Year. — As Gee and others have shown, the disease is much more prevalent dur- ing the first half of the year than in the latter six months. Thus in a 100 consecutive cases seen by the writer, 81 occurred between January and June inclusive, and only 19 between July and December. This seasonal distribution has been attributed to the children having been kept much in the house during the preceding months. It is also probable that the greater prevalence of cold winds (E. and N.) during the spring months has something to do with it. 2. Of the Seizure. Any shock to the nervous system, however slight, and any exertion on the child's part, may bring on an attack in those who are predisposed. Thus, the child very often has a paroxysm on awaking from sleep, if exposed to a draught of cold air, if frightened or annoyed in any way, and during swallowing or straining. Clinical Features.—Laryngismus does not often begin suddenly in a severe form in children who are perfectly well. In most cases the patient has been out of sorts for a week or two at least, and the attacks are at first very slight, only becoming severe after the condition has lasted for some time. The attacks themselves set in with great suddenness. The child, who has been sleeping quietly or playing in a natural happy way, suddenly stops lareathing, looks scared, and throws his head back with the mouth open. The chest is fixed and the body and limbs become stiff; the hands are clenched and the feet rigid; the face turns at first cyanotic and afterwards ashy pale. There may be apparently a short loss of consciousness, although this is not common, and a general convulsion may often come on. After a few seconds of arrested breathing, the glottic spasm relaxes and there is a long inspiration, accom- panied by a loud crow which is intermediate in character between the whoop of whooping-cough and the stridor of croup. This is what happens in a severe seizure. There are, however, great differences in the severity of the attacks as well as in their duratioii and in the frequency of their occurrence. In very many cases a few laboured inspirations, accompanied by crowing, are all that is to be observed; while, on the other hand, the spasm is occasionally so severe and continued that the child dies in it. In some cases there are only a few seizures in tlie course of the day; in others there may be twenty, thirty, or more. They are generally more frequent during the night. As has been already mentioned, rickets is present in practically all the cases. We very rarely find laryngismus in advanced rickets with great deformity ; but it is common in the comparatively well-nourished, fat, and often rosy-cheeked children in whom the disease, although not far advanced, is actively pro- gressing. The children are very frequently also subject to other nervous manifestations, especially to facial irritability (Chvostek's symptom), tetany, and general convulsions. Thus, in 100 consecutive cases, 69 showed facial irritability, 12 had symptoms of tetany, and no less than 60 were said to have had general convulsions. Convulsions were much more commonly observed in boys than in girls. In many cases in which there is no regular tetany. Trousseau's symptom can be elicited (see " Tetany "). Diagnosis.—The disease with which laryngis- mus is most commonly confounded is false croup or laryngitis stridula. From this it may be distinguished by the absence of a croupy cough and other signs of laryngeal catarrh, and of any fever ; also by the age of the patient, false croup being comparatively rare in children under two years. The history of recent con- vulsions and the presence of facial irritability, or tetany, are strongly in favour of the con- dition being laryngismus. The glottic spasm which is set up by a foreign body in the larynx resembles closely in character that of laryngismus; but the history of the case will usually render the diagnosis easy. Prognosis.—The prognosis is generally very good in uncomplicated cases, as the great majority rapidly and completely recover under treatment. It must, however, always be guarded, because so long as the child is subject to even a mild form of the disease, a fatal seizure may possibly occur at any moment. Should the child acquire any inflammatory disorder of the respiratory organs, the presence of laryngismus constitutes a dangerous com- plication. Treatment.—As rickets is such an important cause of laryngismus, its treatment naturally forms an essential part of the management of the case. The diet is to be revised, and the proteids and hydrocarbons in the food increased if they ai-e deficient. Cod-liver oil is generally indicated, and phosphorus (gr. thrice daily) is also useful. The child must be taken into the open air as much as possible. Rapid and striking improvement almost always follows the regular use of the cold douche, and often this acts like a charm. The douche may be given in the following way :—The child is made