LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF 353 ones, into the category of malignant degenera- tions of previously benign laryngeal growths, the proportion would be as 1 in 373, whilst if the " certain " and " probable " cases only were admitted, the proportion would be 1 in 685. Under any circumstances, there is not the least corroboration by actual facts of the asser- tion that there existed a special liability of benign growths to undergo malignant degenera- tion after intralaryngeal operation, the less so as the collective investigation referred to has also shown that actually a larger number of spontaneous degenerations occurred in non- operated cases than post-operative degenera- tions, in cases which had been submitted to intralaryngeal operation. Pathology.— By far the greatest number of cases of laryngeal carcinoma belong to the squamous-celled variety (epithelioma); scirrhus and medullary cancer are infinitely rarer. In one isolated case I have observed columnar-celled carcinoma, and in one other case villous cancer. Spheroidal-celled or glandular-celled carcinoma (adeno-carcinoma) I have never seen, but the latter variety has been described by several observers. The enormous preponderance of epithelioma observed in my own cases is fully in accordance with general experience. Sarcoma occurs in both the round and spindle- celled varieties, and additionally in combination with other forms of growths, as fibro-sarcoma, myxo-sarcoma, and very rarely lympho-sarcoma. The histological characteristics of malignant growths in the larynx in no way differ from those of analogous tumours in other parts of the body. Symptoms. —• The symptoms of malignant disease of the larynx, including both carcinoma and sarcoma, in their early stages vary very greatly according to the primary localisation of the growth. The still almost universal notion, viz., that constitutional and grave local symp- toms necessarily accompany cancer or sarcoma of the larynx from their very onset, is absolutely wrong, so far as the more frequent variety, the intrinsic, is concerned, and the sooner this fact becomes generally admitted the better for the sufferers, and their chances of being saved. In the intrinsic variety the initial symptoms are very trivial. If the growth starts from one of the vocal cords, or their anterior commissure, the first, and, for a long time, the only symptom is hoarseness. I have known a good many cases in which simple huskiness or hoarseness of the voice, unattended by pain or any other local or con- stitutional symptom, remained for a year, or even more, the only symptom of the grave affection. It should, therefore, be an invariable rule for every general practitioner to carefully examine, or have examined by an expert, the larynx of any middle-aged patient who, for any length of time, has been suffering from obstinate hoarse- ness, even if there be no other symptoms of any VOL. V kind. The hoarseness in such cases develops gradually, in proportion to the increase of the growth, and finally ends in complete or almost complete aphonia. Should, meanwhile, the glottic space have been considerably encroached upon by the new growth, difficulty of breathing, usually steadily increasing, but, in a few rare cases, occasionally intensified by violent spas- modic attacks, makes its appearance, and if the disease be allowed to progress without hindrance, usually becomes so severe as to necessitate the performance of tracheotomy. Sometimes, however, even when the stage of complete aphonia and considerable dyspnoea has been reached, a temporary fallacious improve- ment takes place, owing to peripheral breakdown of the neoplasm. In such cases temporarily free respiration and almost normal voice may be for a short time restored, and the patient and his friends may hope that an erroneous diagnosis had been arrived at. Several such cases are within my own cognisance. Soon, however, the growth manifests fresh activity, and the old symptoms return with increased severity. When once the stage of ulceration has been reached, and not rarely even long before that time, there is much increased production of phlegm, usually frothy in character. Later on the expectoration is sometimes blood-stained, and occasionally little haemorrhages occur. At this period the breath also often becomes foetid, but even at that time no deterioration of the general health need have occurred, and there may be no pain, no difficulty in swallowing, and no enlarge- ment of the cervical glands. It is perhaps here the place for the observation that the signifi- cance of pain in malignant disease has, accord- ing to my own experience—which in this class of cases is exceptionally large—been greatly over- stated. In a number of close upon two hundred cases of this kind which I have seen, I hardly remember a single one in which pain played the predominant role ; often enough it was either quite insignificant, or even completely absent till the patient's death, although it must not be denied that in a few cases it was described as an early symptom. Should the new growth be allowed to extend and to transgress the confines of the larynx proper, the cervical lymphatic glands, as a rule, become enlarged and form smaller or larger clusters of hard masses, which vary in their mobility, and not rarely ultimately become fixed to the neighbouring parts. Should the oesophagus be affected, dysphagia becomes a prominent feature. Should the disease extend to the deeper structures and involve the cartilaginous framework, perceptible broadening of the larynx will be perceived, and later on symptoms of perichondritis may occur, which in some cases so entirely overshadow the original disease that the latter can only be 23