322 LAEYNX, EXAMINATION OF Local hypersesthesia, so common in men, can be got rid of by the application of a 10 per cent solution of cocaine, but the practised laryngo- scopist will only rarely require to employ it for this purpose. By placing the mirror just in front of the uvula while the patient sings a high-pitched " ee," at other times by depressing the tongue instead of holding it out, a sufiicient view will be obtained even in the most irritable. As a rule, the hypersesthesia of the pharynx is but another name for the clumsiness of the observer. The tongue at times causes difficulty by the fraenum being so short as to prevent its being protruded, or it may be so thick and fleshy as to fill the cavity of the mouth, or more frequently by a reflex action the dorsum be- comes so arched that the introduction of the mirror is impossible. All these difficulties are removed by using a tongue-depressor and then introducing the mirror in the ordinary way. In a small number of cases the epiglottis lies so far backwards over the larynx as to prevent a view of its interior. The singing of a high- pitched "ee," or the making a few rapid and noisy inspirations, will usually suffice to raise the epiglottis; or a tongue-depressor, such as that of Mount Bleyer or Schmidt, may be em- ployed to pull forward the root of the tongue. If these means fail we can paint the larynx with a 20 per cent solution of cocaine, and then by means of the laryngeal sound raise the epiglottis. The examination of children, though often easily accomplished, at other times presents great difficulties. If the child is old enough to understand, we should try to gain its confidence, and proceed exactly as in adults. Very young or unruly children should be placed on a nurse's knee, with the legs fixed between hers, and held erect while the head is steadied by an assistant. By using a tongue-depressor and quickly intro- ducing the laryngeal mirror, a view sufficient for the purposes of diagnosis may sometimes be obtained. Too often, however, the excess of frothy mucus in the lower pharynx and the rolling together of the epiglottis will defeat our purpose. If it is imperative to make an examina- tion, we can of course give a general ansesthetic and employ a gag and tongue-depressor, or we may have recourse to the direct method of Kirstein. Lack has suggested a method which is specially valuable in very young children. The tip of the left forefinger is passed into the right pyriform sinus, and the terminal phalanx hooked round the hyoid bone, which is pulled forward. A small laryngeal mirror is then intro- duced. In children with teeth he uses a curved tongue-depressor instead of the finger. The younger the child the easier the examination, and no anaesthetic is required. There are a number of modifications of the usual method of laryngoscopy, which enable us to obtain better views of certain parts of the larynx. Thus, by throwing the head well back- wards, and holding the mirror more vertically, we can get a better view of the anterior com- missure ; while to see the posterior wall we adopt Killian's position, in which the head is bent forward Avellis has described two methods which will be found of value in getting a view of one side of the larynx, so as to see the under surface of the ventricular bands and into the ventricles. These consist in either bending or rotating the head towards the side to be ex- amined, while the mirror is placed at the opposite side of the uvula and held at an ap- propriate angle. Thus to examine the right side of the larynx bend the head towards the right shoulder, or rotate it in the same direction, while placing the mirror to the left side of the uvula. 2. Direct Inspection.—Under the name auto- scopy a method of examining the larynx and trachea by direct inspection was introduced a few years ago by Kirstein of Berlin. By means of a specially constructed tongue-depressor the base of the tongue and epiglottis are pulled forwards and downwards, whilst light is thrown directly into the larynx from an electric lamp either attached to the handle of the tongue- depressor or worn on the forehead. The patient should be seated on a chair with his neck freed of all clothing, and should bend the upper part of his body forward, while his head is slightly inclined backwards. The observer standing in front introduces the spatula, so that its tip catches in the groove between the tongue and epiglottis, and draws the base of the tongue evenly and steadily downwards and forwards. Kirstein claims that he can see the whole larynx and trachea, except the anterior commissure, in about a fourth of all adults ; and that about one- half of all people can be fairly well examined, so that the posterior region of the larynx is exposed to view. It is evidently, therefore, not a method to replace laryngoscopy, but where practicable it is of great value in enabling us to obtain a better view of the posterior wall of the larynx and trachea than the laryngoscope gives. It is a method, however, which requires a very great deal of practice to acquire, and which calls for considerable endurance on the part of the patient. One undoubted advantage it has is the ease with which children can be examined in this way when under chloroform. The head of the child should be drawn over the edge of the table and held by an assistant. The spatula is then introduced and the tongue pressed for- ward in the usual manner; the head of the child is then raised or lowered, till the correct position is obtained which exposes the larynx to view. 3. Transillumination.—If a bright light be concentrated on the side of the neck, and the laryngeal mirror be introduced in the usual