166 LABOUR, STAGES AND DURATION Second Stage. ^—Duration.—The second stage, or stage of expulsion, commences with the full dilatation of the os and the rupture of the membranes, and ends with the expulsion of the child. Its average duration is from one to two hours in primiparee, and from ten to fifteen minutes in multiparse. Phenomena.—The chief phenomena of the second stage are the continuance of involun- tary contraction and retraction of the uterus, the addition of voluntary contraction of the abdominal muscles, and the consequent expulsion of the foetus. The nature of the uterine contractions remains unchanged, save that they become more violent, and last for a longer time. The interval between them is also lessened. They vary in length from thirty to sixty seconds, and occur every five to seven minutes up to the actual time of expulsion, when they are almost continuous. Retraction of the muscle fibres also continues; and its importance is now seen, as it enables the uterus to reduce the size of its cavity to suit its lessening contents. The voluntary contractions of the abdominal muscles impart to the second stage pains their expulsive character. As each contraction com- mences, the patient fixes her diaphragm by closing the glottis after a deep inspiration, and, contracting her abdominal muscles to the utmost, brings all the force she can to bear upon the uterus and its contents. The reason that these voluntary expulsive efforts do not occur during the first stage is obvious. At that time, the undilated cervical canal offers a bar to the advance of the uterine contents, and hence the effect of the contraction of the abdominal muscles is merely to drive the entire uterus downwards into the pelvis without in any way furthering the expulsion of the ovum. In the second stage, this obstruction is removed, and the compression of the uterus by the contrac- tions of the abdominal muscles materially assists in hastening the delivery of the foetus. The expulsion of the foetus commences as soon as the membranes rupture. The pre- senting part is driven downwards through the vagina until it reaches the perineum, where there is usually some little delay. Then as each fresh contraction occurs, the presenting part advances a little, and can be seen at the vulva separating the labia; and as the con- traction passes otf, it again recedes into the vagina. Finally, it descends so far that it does not recede, and then the next contraction will in all probability cause its expulsion. As the presenting part is passing over the perinaeum, the pain caused is so severe that the patient is compelled to cry out. This act, by opening the glottis, checks all efforts at bearing down, and so slows expulsion. In this way a longer time is given to the perineum to dilate, and the tendency to laceration is diminished. The necessary dilatation of the vagina, vulva, and perineum is permitted by the softening these tissues undergo as the result of serous infiltration of the connective tissue. This is due, first, to the active hypersemia of the vessels which occurs during labour; and secondly, to the fact that the return flow of blood being obstructed by the pressure exerted upon the veins by the presenting part, there is a consequent increase of intra-vascular tension. ConstiUotional Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms of the second stage are more marked than are those of the fii'st, owing to the fact that the uterine contractions are stronger, and that the descent of the foetus through the vagina increases the patient's suffering. The frequency of the pulse-rate and of respiration is increased during the pains, and profuse sweating may occur. As the foetus presses more and more upon the rectum, the patient experiences a strong desire to go to stool, although there is usually nothing in the bowel to evacuate. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the onset of the second stage can, as has been mentioned, be made by the change in the character of the pains. Further, the patient herself, or her attendants, can usually inform us whether the membi'anes have ruptured or not, so obviating the necessity of making a vaginal examination. If the latter is made, the fact that the cervical canal is fully dilated can be determined. The progress which the foetus is making through the vagina can be determined by abdominal palpation or by vaginal examination. By the assistance of the former we can follow the progressive descent of the presenting part by noting the rate at which it travels down- wards behind the symphysis. In the early part of the second stage, the height above the symphysis of some portion of the presenting part—for instance, the chin in vertex presenta- tions—can be measured in finger-breadths. As labour advances, the portion which we have taken for our guide will be found to approach the level of the symphysis, and then to sink below the latter. The rate of advance can then be followed by sinking the finger-tips into the true pelvis; while by the time we can no longer reach the chin even in this manner, the present- ing part will be pressing upon the perineum, and almost or quite visible from below. If a vaginal examination is made in order to de- termine the progress of the presenting part, a gradual diminution in the distance between the latter and the perineum can be determined. But here we have to guard against a possible fallacy. In all cases of delayed labour with strong uterine contractions the caput succeda- neum hourly increases in size, and bulges more and more downwards towards the perineum. Consequently, it is easy to attribute the diminished distance between the caput and the perineum to the descent of the presenting part