KELENE 88 Kelene. See Anaesthetics, Ethyl Chlor- ide. Keloid. See Cicatrices [Keloid or Cheloid); MoRPHCEA ; ScLERODERMiA {Circumscribed, Keloid of Addison); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Leucodermia and Keloid); Tumours of the Skin (Keloid). Kemmern. See Balneology (Jiussia). Kentucky. See Balneology (America, Blue Lick and Paroquet Springs). Kephir.—A product obtained from the milk of the cow by combined vinous and lactic fermentation; it seems to have been first used as a nutrient drink in the Caucasus, and the ferment which is believed to be the causal factor is named bacillus caucasicus. See Diet (Milk and its Products); Milk (Therapeutic Uses, Kephir). Kephir has recently been employed in tuberculosis, in rickets, and in infectious fevers (e.(/. scarlet). Kera,tecta,Sia,. — Protrusion of the cornea. See Cornea. Kera.tectOiny.—Excision of a piece of the cornea, or incision into the anterior chamber of the eye through the cornea. Kera.tin.—A substance, closely resembling a proteid, of which the superficial squamous epithelial cells of the skin are composed; it also forms the nails, hair, horns, and hoofs; it contains sulphur, and can therefore be stained by lead, etc. (see Physiology, Tissues, Epithelium). Although keratin has generally been used in medicine only as coating for pills to prevent them being acted on by the gastric juice, it is now claimed for it that it has medicinal properties; and it has been used in such inter- stitial aifections as tabes dorsalis and chronic myelitis, where it is supposed to do good by inhibiting the formation of connective tissue and facilitating its resorption (by uniting with glutin). See also Skin, Anatomy and Physiology (Epidermis, Stratum Corneum) ; Skin, Pig- mentary Affections of (Pigments, Keratin). Keratinisation.—The change of the epidermal cells into a horny substance, or the coating of pills with keratin. See Cicatrices (Pathological Coitditions, Weak, Cicatrices). Keratitis.—Inflammation of the cornea. See Cornea (InJiammatio7i); see also Conjunctiva, DiSEASESOF(C/iro?tM- Ophthalmia, Complications); Iris and Ciliary Body (Iritis and Cyclitis, Complications); Nerves, Neuralgia (Operations on Gasserian Ganglion, Sequeloi); Sympathetic Ophthalmitis (Keratitis punctata); Syphilis, Tertiary (Et/e ami its Appendages, Cornea); Syphilis in Children (Hereditary, Later Signs); Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelce). KeratOCele.—Hernia of the membrane of Descemet through a corneal ulcer. See Cornea. KeratOCOnuS. — Conical cornea. See Cornea. Keratodermia. See Ichthyosis (Local Hyperkeratosis, Keratodermia erythematosa sym- metrica). KeratOg^lobuS.—Spherical bulging of the cornea of the eye (usually affecting also the sclerotic) ; hydrophthalmus. Keratoiiyaiin. >S'ee Eleidin. Keratolysis.—A state of morbid loosen- ing of the horny layers of the epidermis, as seen in pityriasis, in dermatitis exfoliativa neonatorum, and in foetal keratolysis {Ballan- tyne). See New-born Infant (Ritter's Disease). Keratoma.—A morbid state of the skin, often congenital, characterised by excessive growth of the stratum corneum; foetal ichthy- osis. When it is limited to the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, it is called Keratoma Palmare et plantare hereditarium. See also Sclerodermia. Keratomalacia.—A morbid state of the cornea characterised by softening and de- generation. See Cornea (Keratomalacia or Infantile Ulceration of the Coriiea). KeratonoSUS.—A disease of the stratum corneum of the skin and of the nails and hair. KeratonyxiS.—The breaking up of a soft cataract by a needle passed in through the cornea. KeratorrhexiS.—Rupture of the comea. KeratOSCOpy. See Retinoscopy. Keratosis. — A diseased state of the stratum corneum of the skin and of other horny structures ; thus hyperkeratosis is an excessive development of the stratum corneum, as is seen most markedly in foetal ichthyosis, and, locally, in tyloma and clavus ; hypokeratosis, again, is defective formation of the horny layer; keratosis follicularis is a variety of ichthyosis. See Ich- thyosis ; Pharynx, Examination of (Pharyngo- mycosis or Keratosis Pharyn/jis). Kerion.—Inflammation of the tissues of the scalp, characterised by pustular folliculitis, and due to trichopyton megalosporon ectothrix, a form of ringworm. See Skin, Parasites (Tinea Tonsurans). Kernig''S Sig'n.—In cases of meningitis, if the patient sits on the edge of the bed with his legs hanging down, the lower leg cannot be completely straightened owing to rigidity of the