519 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES radicles of the portal vessels. Ulcerations and cancerous changes in the stomach, in the py- lorus, in the small and large intestine, and in the rectum, have each and all been followed by thrombus, purulent periphlebitis of the portal vein, and abscesses of the liver. One of the most common lesions in which suppurative thrombi form is in connection with appendicitis, and it is one of the sequelse of that troublesome affection which most frequently causes death. Suppurative thrombosis of the mesenteric veins was found by the writer in all cases of malig- nant dysentery he had the opportunity of examining. Tlie coagulation commences in the venous radicles issuing from the affected part of the gut, and advances upwards towards the main trunk, and as far as where the splenic and su- perior mesenteric veins unite to form the portal. In such cases the gut becomes black, the mucous surface sloughs in huge patches; but whether the phlebitis is consequent upon the so-called dysentery, or vice versd, is a point not yet determined. It is doubtful whether malignant dysentery is in any sense dysentery or a specific disease; it is more likely a conditional and in- testinal flux consequent upon primary phlebitis. Trismus Nascentium.—The trismus of newly- born infants is but a local sign of a general blood disease, the primary starting-point being thrombosis of the umbilical vein, due to septic infection. The writer had experience of this in Hong-Kong, where, owing to the frequency of trismus nascentium amongst the infants of the Chinese poor, half the total death-rate was caused by it. Foreign bodies in the alimentary canal, such as penetrating fish-bones, etc., may serve as the starting-point of phlebitis and thi'ombosis. Abscesses in the spleen are liable to be followed by thrombosis of the splenic and portal veins, the peculiar anatomical conditions of the splenic pulp and its relations to the vein favouring thrombosis. Any old cicatrix or adhesion in the abdominal cavity may, after years of quiescence, lead to phlebitis of the veins in its tissue and sub- sequent suppuration and venous thrombosis. Such a case occvirred in the practice of the writer, where, at the post-mortem performed by Dr. William Hunter, a gastric ulcer, which had healed twenty-five years previously, and acquired adhesion to the pancreas, became irritated in consequence of fish-poisoning, with the result that the veins in the cicatrix became inflamed, the splenic vein and the portal vein up to the gate of the liver were enveloped in pus, and a loose thrombus occupied the channels of both the splenic and portal veins. Signs and Symptoms.—When some one of the several affections mentioned above as provoca- tive of suppurative portal thrombosis occurs, the onset of the lesion in the vein gives rise to the following symptoms. The pain of the affec- tion changes or extends its seat. If the cause is an appendicitis the seat of pain is no longer confined to the right iliac fossa, but extends upwards to the right hypochondrium, or to the umbilicus; and as peritonitis develops, the pain becomes general over the abdomen. In the same way, if the spleen is the seat of trouble, the pain extends across the stomach and gives rise to " cramp in the stomach " ; and in similar fashion for other aftections. A rigor is an early indication of an extending portal phlebitis, followed by the usual profuse sweating. Rigors may occur not only at the commencement of the illness, but may recur at irregular intervals afterwards. Jaundice sometimes to a marked degree supervenes, and the liver becomes permanently enlarged and may be painful on percussion and palpation. The spleen enlarges if the splenic vein or the trunk of the portal vein becomes thrombosed. A thin watery diarrhoea is the rule, but constipation occasionally obtains. When blood escapes by the bowel in quantity the splenic and hepatic tenderness and enlarge- ment may disappear. Fever is always present, and usually assumes an intermittent type; towards the end it usually assumes a hectic character. Pyaemia, with rigors, sweating, and deposit of pus in the joints, in the viscera, or beneath the skin, may result. The general symptoms are feverishness, loss of appetite, loss of flesh, emaciation, and rapid decline in strength. A typhoid state usually supervenes as death approaches. Diagnosis.—It is by the aggregation of the signs and symptoms described above, superven- ing upon some local inflammatory lesion within the alsdominal cavity, by which the presence of suppurative portal thrombosis may be inferred to be present. No single symptom is constant ; the pain may be obscured; the rigors and sweating may be ascribable to malaria or general pysemia; or the presence of dysentery, hepatitis, or splenitis may obscure the diagnosis. Prognosis. —The suppurative phlebitis extends to the trunk of the portal vein. Death is inevitable. Treatment.—The relief of pain and distress and the support of the strength are the only measures to be adopted in the treatment of this fatal malady. Liver Parasites Parasites 519 Distomvm hepaticum . . .520 ,, lanceolatum . . . 520 ,, sinense .... 520 ,, conjunctum . . . 520 ,, hcematobium . .520 Pentastomum constrictum . . ■ 520 Ascaris lumbricoides.... 520 Tcenia echinococcus (Hydatid Disease) 521 Excluding hydatids, already described, several parasites, all belonging to the distomata variety