KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 130 Clinical Types of Tuberculous Disease OF THE Knee 1. Hydrops tuberculosis is the name given to that type in which the outstanding feature is the accumulation of fluid within the joint. It is analogous to the ascitic type of peritoneal tuberculosis, and it is the chief representative of the " chronic simple synovitis" of the older authors. It is most often met with in the knee of young adults, but may occur at any age. Inasmuch as it frequently terminates in recovery with a useful joint, it may be regarded as the least serious form of tuberculous joint disease ; this is largely due to its origin from a purely synovial lesion; foci in the bones are exceptional, but they may be the cause of the hydrops in those cases where the joint becomes suddenly distended with fluid. In the ser-ous form of hydrops the fluid ac- cumulates gradually and imperceptibly; the capsule is chiefly distended in its upper recess, the patella is pushed forwards and floats ; there is no pain ; the functions of the joint are fairly well preserved, as the movements are only hindered by the distension of the capsule ; there may be some complaint of tiredness, but the patient is usvially able to walk in moderation without discomfort; prolonged distension of the capsular and other ligaments may cause a sense of insecurity and instability. The variation in the amount of fluid from time to time is characteristic; it subsides under rest and in- creases after exercise. In the fibririous form of hydrops the joint also slowly fills with fluid, but unless the capsule is tightly distended we are usually able to recognise some thickening of the synovial mem- brane, especially along the line of its reflection on to the femur. By displacing the fluid from one part of the sac to another by means of the fingers, we may recognise a peculiar friction or crepitation from the contact of floating masses of fibrin and melon-seed bodies against one another; this is best appreciated if the knee is rapidly flexed and extended by the patient while it is grasped and compressed by the fingers. If the fluid is evacuated, it is found to have suspended in it fibrinous bodies, often of the melon-seed type, which are very apt to block the cannula. If the joint is opened a similar fibrinous material may be found lining the synovial membrane, and it may be also covering certain areas of the articular surfaces. The diagnosis of tuberculous hydrops is to be made from that arising from other causes, e.g. from injury, and especially repeated sprains of the joint, from gonorrhoea, from arthritis deformans and Charcot's disease, from the hydrops which may attend staphylococcus disease {e.g. Brodie's abscess) in one of the adjacent bones, and lastly, from the hsemar- throsis met with in bleeders. Given a patient, and especially a young adult, with water in the knee, and having excluded injury, the proba- bility is that it is due either to tuberculosis or to gonorrhoea. The presence of melon-seed or other fibrinous bodies in the fluid is confirma- tory of tuberculosis. The demonstration of bacilli and the results of inoculation in animals are too imcertain to be of any value. The treatment will be considered with that of tuberculous disease of the knee in general, but it may be pointed out in this place that the hydrops is especially amenable to con- servative treatment by rest, and by injections into the joint of iodoform glycerine. In the fibrinous variety a large cannula must be used, otherwise it is liable to be blocked ; even then it may be impossible to evacuate the contents of the joint; the choice will lie under these condi- tions, between diluting the joint contents with saline solution introduced by a syringe and washing out the joint before introducing the iodoform, and making an incision into the upper pouch, squeezing out the fluid and loose bodies, and injecting the iodoform by means of a rubber tube attached to the nozzle of the syringe, the tube being gradually withdrawn as the stitches « closing the incision are tightened up. As already indicated, the prognosis is favour- able as regards cure of the disease and recovery of a useful joint; but relapse is not uncommon, and experience shows that neglect of the disease may be followed by a gradual transition of the innocent hydrops into the graver types of synovial tuberculosis. 2. Papillary or nodular tubercle of the synovial membrane may be employed as a clinical term to distinguish a group of conditions in which the dominant feature is a fringy, papillary, poly- poidal, or tumour-like growth from the synovial membrane, sometimes localised and circiim- scribed, sometimes generalised throughout the entire membrane. The conditions referred to are comparatively rare, but are usually attended with characteristic clinical features; they are more often met with in male adults between the ages of twenty and forty. The onset and progress of joint symptoms are extremely gradual; the patient complains of stiiTness and swelling, chiefly after exertion, sometimes sub- siding for weeks or months and then relapsing. In a certain number of cases there are indefinite or atypical symptoms of loose body in the joint, such as occasional painful locking and inability to extend the limb, especially liable to occur in walking or in going up a stair; the locking is usually easily disengaged and the movements M are again quite free. The patient may give a fl history of several years of partial and inter- fl mittent disability, with lameness and occasional ■ locking, and still he may be able to go about or fl even continue his occupation. fl On examination of the joint there is usually ■ a moderate degree of hydrops which subsides I