424 LIPO- Lipo-.—In compound words lipo- (Gr. AiVos, fat) means relating to fat—e.g. lipocardiac, re- lating to a fatty heart; lipogenesis, the formation of fat; lipolysis, the decomposition of fat; etc. Lipochromes. — Fat-pigments or lute- ins, e.g. carotin, tetronerythrin, etc. See Physi- ology, Circulation {Blood, Serum); Pigments OF THE Body and Excreta {Lipochromes); Spec- troscope IN Medicine. Lipoma,.—A fatty tumour, the adipose tissue of which is in lobules, separated by fibrous septa. See Bone, Diseases of {Tumours, Lipoma); Broad Ligaments, Diseases of {Tii- mours); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Congenital Anomalies, Fibro-fatty Tumour); Fallopian Tubes {Tumours, Lipoma); Mammary' Gland, Diseases of {Neoplasms, Fatty Tumours); Mouth, Diseases of {Diseases of Floor of Mouth, Lipomata); Neck, Eegion of {Solid Tumours, Lipomata); Orbit, Diseases of {Solid Tumours, Lipoma); Pelvis, Hematocele and H^ematoma {Lipoma of Mesosalpinx); Peritoneum, Tumours OF {Lipomata and Lipo-fibromata); Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases of {New Growths, Lipomata); Tumours {Connective Tissue, Type, Lipomata). Lipomatosis.—An abnormal deposition of fat (obesity), or fatty degeneration. See Obesity {Adiposis Dolm-osa and Lipomatosis, Diagnosis). LipomplialOCeie.—An umblHcal her- nia one of the contents of which is the fat-laden omentum. Lipomyoma.—A myomatous (or fibroid) tumour, containing fat. Lipomyxoma.—A tumour composed of mucoid tissue and fat. Lipomthymia.—Faintness or actual syncope (Gr. AeiVw, I leave or desert, and Ovfios, the soul or breath). LipOtricilla.—Falling out of the hair, such as occurs in syphilis. LIppitude.—The state of being blear- eyed ; the results of marginal blepharitis. See Eyelids, Affections of {Blepharitis Marginalis). Lippspring^e. See Balneology {Ger- many, Calcareous Waters); Mineral Waters {Earthy and Calcareous). Lip-Tie.—The fixation of the lip to the gum by means of a congenital band or fold. Lipuria.—The presence of fat in the urine, either in association with renal disease (chronic Bright's disease, pyonephrosis), or in chyluria, or in the absence of any disease of the kidneys (after an excessive fat diet, in phosphorus- poisoning, in diabetes mellitus, pyaemia, etc.). See Pancreas, Diseases of {Pancreatitis); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Lipuria and Chy- luria). Liquefaction-Necrosis, ^eeColli- quative Necrosis. Liqueurs.—Aromatic alcoholic prepara- tions, containing from 50 to 59 per cent, of alcohol. See Alcohol {Spirits, Liqueurs). Liquid. — The common name given to several pharmaceutical and chemical liquors, such as blistering liqidd (liquor epispasticus), Laharraque's disinfecting liquid (liquor sodse chlorinatse), and Dutch liquid (ethylene di- chloride). Liquor.—A solution of a non-volatile chemi- cal substance in water (distilled) ; occasionally the dissolving of the substance (which may not be a definite chemical substance) is aided by adding something to the water. Such solutions are termed (in Pharmacy) liquores, and there are about forty-three in the B.P., of which twenty-seven are given internally. If the solu- tion be made by repeated percolation with the addition of alcohol, the result is a concentrated solution (liquor concentratus). The term liquor is also applied to any liquid or fluid {e.g. the liquor pericardii or the liquor cerebro-spinalis). See Prescribing. Liquor Amnii.—The fluid contained in the amniotic sac in antenatal life ; it shields the foetus from injuries, allows free movement of its limbs, maintains a constant temperature round it; it acts as a hydrostatic dilator of the cervix in labour, and serves probably as a source of water-supply and possibly (to a slight extent) as a food-supply to the new organism. See Embryology, Human ; Fcetus and Ovum, De- velopment OP {The Amnion); Labour, Precipi- tate and Prolonged {Faults in the Passenger, Liquor Amnii); Pregnancy, Pathology of, Ovum and Decidua {Affections of the Amnion). Liquor Ammonias Fortis. See Ammonium. Liquor AnodynuS.—Spiritus .^Etheris Compositus or Hoffmann's anodyne. Liquor Antisepticus. See Listerine. Liquor Arsenical is.—Fowler's solu- tion. See Arsenic. Liquor Arsenii et Hydrargfyrl lodidi. Donovan's solution. See Arsenic. Liquor CaiciS.—Lime-water or Aqua calcis; with sugar added, the I. calcis saccha- ratus is produced. Liquor Carbonis Deterg^ens.— An alcoholic solution of coal-tar.