JOINTS, DISEASES OF 75 The wasting of muscles is more marked than in the early stage of white swelling. Very commonly the limb is placed in an abnormal attitude by the contraction of special groups of muscles; these attitudes are well illustrated in disease of the hip. If the disease is left to itself and progresses, all the other well-known signs of joint disease may make their appearance, ejj. startings at night, the formation of abscess and of sinuses, displacement or even dislocation of the bones ; until under an antesthetic the joint may be found to be completely disorganised, with destruction of ligaments, abnormal mobility, and grating of the articular surfaces. 5. Caries sicca is the name given by Volkmann to a very chronic form of tuberculous arthritis, chiefly met with in the shoulder and hip of adults between the ages of fifteen and thirty- five. There is an entire absence of swelling. The wasting of all the structures in the vicinity of the joint is characteristic; the bony promi- nences, such as the acromion and coracoid in the case of the shoulder and the trochanter at the hip, stand out prominently. Passive move- ments are very restricted and are attended with severe pain. The general health usually re- mains unimpaired in spite of the long duration of the disease. In exceptional cases an abscess may form; it is usually small and extra- articular, and is related to a sequestrum. Krause has observed cases in which, after many years of indolent progress, thei-e has developed without any apparent cause the most acute suppurative and destructive changes in the joint, necessitating operation without delay; in excising the joint it is found that the head of the bone may have almost or entirely disappeared, and that the tissue of the neck is dense and sclerosed, proving conclusively that the disease was really one of long standing. Influence of the Joint Disease on the General Health. Causes of Death.—While experience shows that tuberculous joint disease may be compatible with good general health, the tendency is for it to be affected when the disease is serious and persistent. Sherman has observed in children a diminution of the red blood corpuscles and of the haemoglobin. Dane has observed leucocytosis when an abscess is forming and when septic infection is super- added. The appetite is impaired. The patient is easily tired and complains of loss of strength, especially when there is fever. The skin is dry. The loss of flesh may amount to emaciation. Albuminuria is a frequent accompaniment of joint lesions which are suppurating ; it usually results from waxy disease of the kidneys, but may be a sign of parenchymatous nephritis; general dropsy is a more unfavourable indication of the interference with the renal functions. A considerable number die from exhaustion with all the accompaniments of hectic fever. Tuber- culous disease of the limy is very frequent in the case of adults; it may be present at the time when the joint disease begins, or it may appear later. Tuberculous disease of the intestine is not uncommon. In the case of children acute miliary tuberculosis is more common than either, and is usually rapidly fatal ; it may occur with- out apparent cause, or it may follow immediately on operative interference (comparatively trifling operations, e.g. scraping of sinuses); the clinical features are frequently those of basal meningitis. The Diagnosis of Tuberculous Joint Disease.— The family history, the presence or history of tuberculous lesions elsewhere in the body, the insidious onset, the fact that there is usually an interval between the appearance of symptoms and the receipt of an alleged injury, all suggest the tuberculous origin of any given case of joint disease. The diagnosis is usually quite easy in typical cases. One should not be misled by the age of the patient or by the appearance of excellent health The X-rays are chiefly of value in the recognition of osseous lesions. The details of diff"erential diagnosis are beyond the scope of the present article. The use of Koch's tuberculin is not recommended. Prognosis.—-This is not easily stated in general terms, since it varies with the seat, extent, and severity of the local disease, and with the resisting powers of the patient as influenced by the general health, age, and social circumstances. Recovery is never impossible. The existence of tuberculous lesions elsewhere and the forma- tion of septic sinuses are unfavourable factors. While tuberculous lesions in children tend to become circumscribed, in adults the tendency is in the opposite direction. The absence of any response to conservative treatment is unfavour- able. The locality of the disease is an important factor ; in the limbs the hip-joint is the most serious of all, because there is greater difficulty in treatment, and the disease is often of a serious type, and may be attended with pelvic complications. The patient and his friends must be informed of the length of time required for complete recovery; it necessarily varies, but it may be stated generally as being from one to three years. The risk of relapse at some future period of life must not be forgotten. Treatment.—In addition to that applicable to all forms of tuberculosis (hygienic, dietetic, etc.), we are here concerned with the local measures directed towards the disease in the joint and its concomitants. These may be described under two heads, the conservative and the operative. Conservative Treatment.—This is almost always to be employed in the first instance, and only when it fails is recourse to be had to operative methods, since with the former a large propor- tion of cures are obtained with a less mortality, and the functional results are better than those obtained by operation. The essentials of con-