INVALID FEEDING 29 from the pan on to a hot dish and serve at once. This may be varied by addition of a little cooked fish, grated cheese, tomato, ham, crab. Second Day Breakfast Tea or coffee with cream. Toasted sardines on fried gluten bread. Boiled egg. Bran bread. Butter. Marmalade. Lunch Fried bacon served au puree of spinach. Cauliflower au gratin with black butter sauce. Gorgonzola cheese. Gluten dinner rolls. Slice of almond, pound cake (Messrs. Callard's). Dinner Tomato puree. Steamed sole. Sauce Hollandaise. Boiled fowl. Carrageen jelly. Stuffed tomatoes. Cauliflower au gratin.—This makes a nice course by itself. The cauliflower should be boiled until quite tender. While boiling, remove any scum that rises to the top. When ready lift it out, drain for a minute or two on a colander, and serve with black butter sauce poured over it. Sprinkle the sauce with Parmesan cheese. Sauce Hollandaise Yolks of 4 eggs. 2 oz. fresh butter. ^ gill of cream. Pinch of pepper, salt, nutmeg. 1 tea-spoonful tarragon vinegar. Place ingredients into small bowl; stand it into large pan on the fire containing boiling water. Briskly whisk the sauce over the fire until it begins to thicken and presents a rich, smooth, creamy appearance. Great care is required to prevent it from curdling; if, how- ever, this should happen, add yolks of two more eggs- Stuffed Tomatoes 3 ripe tomatoes. J oz. of butter. 1 spring onion. ^ tea-spoonful chopped parsley. 1 pinch mixed herbs. 2 mushrooms, or a tea-spoonful Parmesan cheese. Crumbs of 1 almond biscuit. Pepper and salt. Cut off the stalks, leaving a hole the size of a threepenny bit. Squeeze out the juice and pips. To the juice and pips add the onion chopped, the chopped parsley, mixed herbs, and the mush- rooms or cheese. Melt the butter and fry the mixture. Then add sufficient almond biscuit crumbs to make the whole into a moist paste. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture until they resemble their original shape. Put a few crumbs and a little piece of butter on the top of each. Place the filled tomatoes in a baking dish and bake until tender, and moisten with a little oil or butter. Serve in a dish with fried parsley round. Carrageen Jelly or Irish Moss.—Irish moss is a seaweed, and is collected on the northern shores of Ireland. Its nutritive value is slight ; it contains mainly mucilage, and also some iodine and sulphur. It should be well washed and soaked for some hours previous to cooking. The flavour is somewhat peculiar, but delicate, and to some very palatable. 1 oz. Irish moss. 1 quart cold water. Lemon juice. Saccharine to taste. Wash the Irish moss well, and soak it for several hours in cold water. Then put into a saucepan with one quart of cold water and simmer slowly for from four to five hours. Strain, add the lemon juice, and sweeten to taste. Pour into a wetted mould and set aside until cold. Third Day Breakfast Tea or coffee with cream. Scrambled egg on toasted brown bread. Broiled kippered salmon. Gluten flour bread. Butter. Lunch Cocoa nibs and cream. Chicken panada and green peas (see p. 20). Potted head. Imperial cheese. Gluten cracknels. Gluten flour scones. Dinner Chicken broth (as p. 18). Thicken with almond flour. Fish soufile (p. 25). Curry and French beans. (The basis of this is cocoa-nut, green apples, or green rhubarb.) Gluten and almond baked pudding. (Make as semolina pudding, using gluten and almond flour—p. 16.) Savoury eggs. Sardines.—There are various forms in the market. The smallest fish are the best. They can be procured smoked, or preserved with tomatoes. If rolled in slices of streaky bacon and fried, they form a very appetising dish. Girdle Scones 1^ lb. of gluten flour. I oz. of butter. I tea-spoonful of soda. I tea-spoonful of cream of tartar. Salt or saccharine to taste. I tea-cupful of butter milk.