354 LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF diagnosed with the greatest difficulty or even not at all. Finally, when the new growth has found its way, either through the thyro-hyoid membrane or through destruction of the laryngeal car- tilages themselves, into the soft parts surround- ing the larynx, smart haemorrhages may be caused by invasion of the blood-vessels ; violent neuralgia or motor paralysis may be due to invasion of the nerves of the neck ; and finally, the external integument may be broken through, and the new growth appear externally as a fungating irregular tumour, which alternates between breaking down and luxuriantly sprout- ing, and is often covered with ichorous pus. In more than one case in which tracheotomy had been performed, I have seen that the tracheal wound, having been invaded by the new growth, was gradually enlarged by ever-recurring break- down of cancerous vegetations, occupying its borders, until finally the tracheal cannula was lying in a huge cavity formed by the remnants of the larynx and the upper part of the trachea, which had been almost entirely destroyed by the progress of the disease. In such cases, occasionally, almost the whole or, at any rate, the greater part of the cartilaginous framework is expectorated during life in smaller or larger necrosed fragments. The final stages both of the intrinsic and the extrinsic variety, if the disease has been allowed to take its natural course, are usually those of general cachexia. In some cases the haemorrhages towards the end get more frequent and abundant, and the patient sinks from sheer exhaustion; in other cases in which the oesophagus has become involved, increasing dysphagia hastens the fatal end. Not rarely fistulous communications are being established between the air- and food-passages, and the termination is often brought about by septic pneumonia, which is set up by the entry of particles of food into the air-passages, or by the secretion from the ulcerated surfaces. The duration of the disease enormously varies in different cases. The longest case I have seen extended, between the appearance of a small nodule on the anterior part of the right vocal cord and the end of life, to just four and a half years. It is, however, very rare that patients survive more than three years after the commencement of the disease, and often the total duration, if the disease be allowed to proceed without let or hindrance, is no more than from one to two years. The initial stages of intrinsic malignant disease of the larynx are, of course, somewhat different, if not the vocal cords themselves, but some other part of the interior of the larynx, such as the ventricular bands or the subglottic cavity, should be the original seat of the mis- chief. In such cases for some considerable time no subjective symptoms may be produced at all; the onset of such would arise when either the space for respiration is encroached upon or the action of the vocal cords interfered with. In such cases the growth may have attained con- siderable dimensions previous to causing any symptoms. The further development of the subjective symptoms will in such cases, of course, be similar to the events sketched as characterising the later stages of malignant disease of the vocal cords. The extrinsic variety, as a rule, draws the attention of the patient and of his medical adviser at a much earlier time to the existence of grave mischief than the intrinsic. When the new growth is situated on the posterior surface of the cricoid plate, difiiculty, and sometimes pain in swallowing, together with secretion of at first purely frothy, later on sometimes slightly blood-stained phlegm, are the first signs of the disease. Soon in most cases enlarge- ment of the cervical lymphatic glands, at first under the angle of the jaw, later on along the whole root of the neck, becomes noticeable. This enlargement, according to the situation of the new growth, is developed sometimes on one, sometimes on both sides. Occasionally it attains such considerable dimensions already in early stages, when the internal disease does not yet cause any troublesome symptoms, that the original focus may be quite overlooked and the glandular disease supposed to be primary. Several such instances have come under my own notice. As the growth in the variety now under consideration increases in size and covers almost the whole plate of the cricoid cartilage, not only does dysphagia increase, but also, owing to the mechanical destruction of the muscular substance of the abductors of the vocal cords (the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles), myopathic paralysis of these muscles and gradually increasing narrowing of the glottis supervene, which often enough require early tracheotomy. This class of cases is, owing to these circumstances, perhaps the most cruel variety of malignant disease of the larynx, the poor patient hovering between starvation and suffocation. In still later stages symptoms of perichondritis develop, and the final course is similar to that of the intrinsic variety. In cases in which the epiglottis is the primary seat of the mischief, at first often simply some difficulty and pain in swallowing and change in the timbre of the voice are noticed, the latter assuming a curiously " throaty " thick character as the epiglottis is changed into a large tumour. The further progress depends upon the direction in which the new growth progresses. Usually it affects the root of the tongue and the lateral walls of the pharynx and the oesophagus, when dysphagia will, of course, materially increase. Sometimes it descends into the larynx and causes respiratory difficulties in addition to hoarseness and loss of voice. In a third variety