LABOUR, OPERATIONS—FORCEPS 286 whilst he is warranted in explaining the safety of the operation as regards the mother, he (2) should be cautious in his prognosis as to the condition of the infant. (3) His instrument should be sterilised, warmed, and greased on the outer surface of the blades with an anti- septic ointment. (4) He should ascertain that the bladder and bowel of the patient are emptied, and with the patient anaesthetised, (5) he should have her placed across the bed, on her left side, with the knees bent up and the nates brought to the edge of the bed. The delivery may be completed with the patient in this position, though sometimes he will find it easier to ex- tract the head if the patient be placed supine. (6) Before proceeding with the application of the blades, he should make a further vaginal examination with the four fingers of the right hand, so as to assure himself of the precise position and relations of the head, and feel where there is most space for the entrance of the instrument. 2. Introduction of the Forceps.—(1) The left blade should be introduced first, and the practitioner Avho would save himself the un- certainty that sometimes comes on a man at this moment as to which is left and which is right, ought to provide himself with a pair of forceps with "Left—First" stamped on the left blade. (2) The fingers of the right hand, which have been examining the relation of the head to the passages, are used to guide the tip of the left blade, which is held in the left hand and applied to the left side of the pelvis. (3) The introduction should be begun immediately after the cessation of a pain. The practitioner may succeed in applying both blades before the recurrence of another contraction. If a pain comes on, he must suspend the attempt to push on the blade during the continuance of the pain. (4) The instrument is to be insinuated gently, and if it meets with resistance it must be with- drawn and its direction altered. (5) The tip of the blade is to be kept in contact with the foetal head rather than with the vaginal wall. (6) Each blade is to be entered and applied in the proper axis of the pelvis. (7) The concavity of the blade is to be adapted to the convexity of the foetal head. (8) When the first blade is fully introduced it is to be kept in situ with the thumb and last two fingers of the left hand, while the index and medius of the same hand are applied to the head to guide the right blade into the passages. (9) The right blade, with the traction-rod swung forward, is held in the right hand and introduced at right angles to the left, pointed at first towards the hollow of the sacrimi, and carried round the head until it comes into complete antagonism with its fellow. (10) The handle of each blade is grasped by its homonymous hand to effect the locking, the right rod is swung back, and the fixation screw adapted but not tightened. 3. Extraction of the Head.—(1) The applica- tion handles are grasped with one hand, and the screw is fixed with the other at the point where safe and sufficient compression of the head is secured. (2) Traction is made with the traction handle during pains; or, if no pains are present, at intervals. (3) In making traction the traction rods are kept constantly parallel with the shanks, thus ensuring progress of the head in the proper axis of the canals. (4) After each tractile effort the screw is slackened, but not unshipped, and during the interval the operator ascertains what progress the head has made. (5) In occipito-posterior cases, when the forward rotation of the occiput fails to occur under the simple traction, the rectification is aided by grasping the forceps by the application handles. (6) At the outlet, while traction is made with the right hand, the perineum may be supported with the left. (7) The head is made to distend and pass through the pudendal orifice very slowly, the uterus being allowed to complete as often as possible the expulsion of the head and always of the body of the infant. (8) Immediately after the birth of the head the screw must be slackened, the right traction rod freed from the locking plate, and the right and left blades removed successively. Dangers of Forceps.—Although the forceps is safe in principle, both to mother and child, there are dangers to both attendant on its use which are reduced to a minimum with a properly constructed instrument properly applied and worked. The practitioner who has these risks clearly in view is most likely to avoid them. I. To the Mother.—The vaginal walls or roof, or the cervix uteri, may be torn with the tip of the blades during their introduction. The vaginal walls may be bruised at the sides during rotation of the occipito-posteriorly placed head. The nerves of the pelvis have sometimes been damaged, and the ligaments strained at the various articulations. The most frequent mis- chief is produced when the head is extracted too rapidly or in a wrong direction through the pudendal aperture, when the perineum is more or less deeply lacerated, or the labia pudendi are bruised and torn. But greater than all the risks attendant on the use of forceps is the risk incurred by delay in their application in cases where the head is lodged for hours in the pelvic cavity. II. To the Child.—The greatest danger to the infant lies in such a grasp of the head as involves undue compression, when bruising of the soft parts and even fractures of the skull may be produced. Sometimes the neck of the child is squeezed between the tips of the blades, and where the cord is coiled round the neck one of the blades may be found to have pro- duced a fatal compression of it. Not in- frequently the face of the child is seen to be