KAHLER'S DISEASE 87 Kahler'S Disease.—Myelopathic albu- mosuria ; there is persistent excretion of Bence- Jones' proteid in the urine, along with the presence of multiple myelomata. Kairine. — An alkaloidal derivative of quinoline, somewhat resembling quinine ; an- other artificially prepared alkaloid is Kairoline. Kakke. See Beriberi. Kala-azar.—Dum-dum fever, piroplas- mosis, or tropical splenomegaly. See Malaria (Sequelce, Malarial Cachexia); Tropics, Un- CLASSED Fevers op [Fevers of Mixed Origin, Kala-azar). Kaladana.—Pharbitis Nil or the dried seeds of Ipomcea hederacea, official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharma- copoeia of 1898 ; its dose is from 30 to 50 grains in powder or in the form of Pulvis Kaladance Compositus (dose, 20 to 60 grs.) or of Tinctnra Kaladance (dose, ^ to 1 fl. dr.); Kaladance Resina or Pharbitisin has a dose of 2 to 8 grains; Kala- dana and Kaladanae Resina have the same action, and are used for the same purposes as jalap and jalapse resina (Ipomcea purga). See Ipom(EA ; Jalap ; etc. Kalium. See Potash; Iodine and Iodides ; etc. Kalmuck Idiocy.—A form of idiocy with facial appearances resembling those seen in Mongolian idiocy. See Mental Deficiency {Congenital, Mongoloid). Kalomelol.—Colloidal calomel of Merck, a form of calomel soluble in water, given in- ternally (dose, \ gr.) or externally (as dusting powder or ointment) in the treatment of syphilis. Kamala.—An anthelmintic powder, con- taining a crystalline resin (rottlerin, CggHj^Og), obtained from the fruit capsules of Rottlera tinctoria; official in the United States and in Germany. Kamloops. See Therapeutics, [^Health Resorts (America, British Columbia). Kangaroo Tendon. \See Aseptic Treatment of Wounds (Disinfection of liga- tures). Kaolinum.—A native aluminium silicate which in the form of a powder is used as a dusting powder and as a basis for pills, contain- ing potassium permanganate, phosphorus, etc. Kaposi's Disease.—Xeroderma pig- mentosum. See Skin, Pigmentary Affections of (Xeroderma pigmentosum). Kaput ine.—"Kaputine" powders are said to consist mainly of antifebrin or acetanilide. See Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits (Antifebrin). Kariyat.—A synonym of Indian Chiretta. See Andrographis. Karlsbad. See Balneology (Austria). Karyochrome Cells.—Nerve cells of the cortex cerebri which do not contain chromo- phile substance in their protoplasm ; they are smaller than the cells which contain it, and which are known as somatochrome. See Insanity, Pathology of (Pathological Anatomy, Cortical Nerve Cells). Karyokinesis and Karyomito- SiS. See Caryocinesis. Katabolism. ^ee Catabolism. Katadicrotism.—"The occurrence of dicrotism in the downward stroke of a sphygmo- graphic tracing"; dicrotism, as opposed to anacrotism. KataphoresiS.—The efifect produced on tissues, e.g. cancers, by electricity, the positive pole being coated with mercury, which forms an oxychloride of mercury, supposed to act lethally on the cancer cells but not on the normal ones. Katatonia.—A form of insanity in which there are melancholic and cataleptic phenomena and morbid somnolence. See Sleep, Normal and Morbid (Alorbid Somnolence). Katharsion. See Balneology (Greece, Lesbos). Kauri.—A coniferous tree of New Zealand from which Kauri-gum (a resin) is obtained, which is used as a disinfectant and as a substi- tute for collodion. Kava.—KavoB rhizoma is the dried rhizome of piper methysticum; it is officially used in Australia, and is included in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia of 1898. The extractum kavce liquidum is given in doses of to 1 fl. dr. ; if injected hypodermi- cally the liquid extract produces local anaesthesia (due to the resin, Kaunne). A liquid made from the root ("yangona root") by the natives of the Sandwich Islands, and called " Kava" or " Ava," produces intoxication of a drowsy character. The liquid extract of Kava is used as a diuretic, and in gonorrhoea and leucorrhoea. Kawine. See Kava. Kedg'eree. See Invalid Feeding (Fish). Kefir. See Kephir. Kehrer's Operation.—An operation for the relief of depressed or invaginated nipples ; mammillaplasty. See Puerperium, Pathology (Nij^ples).