435 LIVER, DISEASES OF the inferior surface comes to look forwards and upwards instead of downwards and backwards. This is due to the liver moving upwards on a transverse axis running through its connection with the inferior vena cava, which is relatively a fixed point. Occasionally coils of intestine or the colon may intervene between the liver and the anterior abdominal wall, thus displacing the liver backwards. In acute yellow atrophy complete disappearance of the liver dulness is largely due to the flabby liver allowing resonant bowel to come between it and the abdominal parietes. A subdiaphragmatic abscess, especially one between the liver and the diaphragm, such as results from rupture of a suppurating focus on the convexity of the liver (suprahepatic abscess), or a hydatid cyst lying between the liver and the diaphragm, may depress the liver. As the result of inflammatory adhesions the liver may be pulled downwards towards the pelvis. In very rare instances a wandering liver has become fixed by peritoneal adhesions in an abnormal position, such as the right iliac fossa (Richelot). Dilatation and distension of the stomach or of the left part of the colon will rotate the liver on its antero-posterior axis towards the right. A displaced liver is, as a rule, not more movable than one in its normal position. It differs from a wandering liver in this respect, and also in the fact that it cannot be replaced in its normal position, while in addition a definite cause for its displacement is often forthcoming. Symptoms that might be referred to a dis- placed liver, such as weight and pain in the right hypochondrium, are generally thrown into the shade by those of the condition responsible for the displacement. The various forms of enlargement of the liver—fatty, lardaceous, leuksemic, new growth, abscess, cirrhosis, etc.—must be differentiated from a displaced liver by a careful physical examination of each individual case. Hepatoptosis Definition, etc. Etiology. Causation Physical Signs Symptoms Diagnosis Treatment 435 435 435 436 436 437 437 Synonyms : Wandering Liver ; Movable Liver ; Ptosis, Dislocation, Prolapse of the Liver. Definition.—The liver, being unduly movable in a downward direction, leaves its normal position and appears as an abdominal tumour. Historical.—Heister as long ago as 1754 published an account of an autopsy, illustrated by a plate, showing this condition; but Cantani is credited with the first clinical recognition of wandering liver, in 1865. Attention has been largely directed to this curious anomaly by the numerous contributions of Glenard, who has recently collected 80 examples. Introductory.—A movable liver must be distinguished from mere displacement of the organ by pleural effusion, etc., and from the constriction or floating lobes that have been termed partial hepatoptosis. It is probable that what were really only floating lobes have often been described as wandering livers or complete hepatoptosis. A wandering liver is analogous to a wandering spleen ; both the organs are normally " floating," viz., supported by the abdominal viscera and tethered by peritoneal ligaments. The term " floating" is therefore unsuitable as descrip- tive of an abnormally movable liver, though it is applicable to nephroptosis. When these normally "floating" organs become unduly and spontaneously movable, they may be said to be " wandering." Etiology.—The female sex are chiefly affected ; out of 80 cases collected by Glenard 73 were in females, Graham in 70 cases found 56 in women, while in 30 cases seen in private practice Max Einhorn records 21 in women. The majority of patients are over forty years of age; cases in early life are very rare ; Freeman in 494 autopsies on children records 4 instances of hepatoptosis. Repeated pregnancies, abdominal distension, and other causes leading to a relaxed and pen- dulous condition of the abdominal parietes, dispose to hepatoptosis. Tight-lacing may, by interfering with the healthy tone of the ab- dominal muscles, indirectly dispose to hepatop- tosis ; but it plays a minor part, and its chief manifestations have been already referred to (p. 433). Causation.—An unduly movable liver may be part of general abdominal ptosis or Glenard's disease, already described. (See "Enteroptosis.") On the other hand, hepatoptosis may exist with- out universal visceroptosis, or only in association with one of its manifestations, such as floating kidneys. A considerable amount of discussion has taken place as to the essential factors in the production of a movable liver. From a general survey it appears that the necessary conditions are :— (1) Diminution in the Intra-abdominal Ten- sion.—This allows the supporting pad of in- testines to fall away from the liver, and permits that organ to drop down towards the pelvis. The causes which lead to lowering of the intra- abdominal pressure are numerous ; among them may be enumerated repeated pregnancies, ascites, abdominal distension, sedentary occupations, tight-lacing, and an enfeebled state of health; all of these tend to impair the healthy tone of the muscles of the abdominal wall, and to pro-