LIVER, DISEASES OF 434 is often affected with calculous cholecystitis, the abnormal lobe is frequently the site of pain. As in the case of the constriction lobes of the corset liver, this abnormal lobe may be con- nected with the liver only by a thin bridge of fibrosed hepatic substance, and may easily be regarded as some form of abdominal tumour, such as a floating kidney, a tumour of the pylorus or colon, and the other tumours men- tioned in the section on tight-laced liver. From repeated attacks of congestion the floating lobe is very often structurally altered, and shows fibrous increase. The subjects of floating lobes are usually women of mature years, and, as has been already said, gall-stones are frequently found in associa- tion. M'Phedran, however, has described a case in a baby aged eleven months, and is inclined to regard these lobes as of develop- mental origin. The floating lobe is freely movable, and may be tender on palpation. The symptoms referred to it are a feeling of heaviness and dragging in the hypochondrium, pain sometimes like biliary colic, and in all probability due to gall-stones. It should, however, be pointed out that it may be associated with a floating kidney. The tongue-shaped lobe is rarely diagnosed clinically, and is usually only discovered when an exploratory laparotomy is undertaken. The condition has been known to disappear after associated disease of the gall-bladder has been removed, and this is the rational and most satisfactory treatment. In some recorded cases the floating lobe has been successfully fixed by sutures to the ab- dominal wall, or even removed with relief of the symptoms referred to its presence. But such radical measures are not really necessary, since it is doubtful whether serious symptoms are ever due to the floating lobe apart from associated disease of the gall-bladder. Displaced Liver This condition must be distinguished from a movable or displaceable liver, which is con- sidered in the next section on hepatoptosis, and from the various enlargements of the liver. Displacement of the liver may be due to causes that are— (1) Congenital. (2) Acquired. Congenital Malposition or Displacement of the Liver is rare.—When the diaphragm is defective or represented only by a membranous partition, the liver may project upwards into the thoracic region inside a thin pouch. In 12 cases of true congenital diaphragmatic pouches collected by JafFe, 8 were on the loft side. The left lobe of the liver has been found in these pouches, and its displacement naturally gives rise to tilting of the organ. From congenital defect of the abdominal muscles the liver may project under the skin either at the umbilicus or between that point and the xiphoid cartilage. When it occurs at the navel it is spoken of as hepatomphalos, when elsewhere as congenital ectopia, or hepa- tocele. The tumour is dull on percussion, and can be reduced unless it contracts adhesions to the wall of the hernial sac. Acquired displacements of the liver may be due to very various causes. In angular curvature of the spine, the liver, like other organs, may be very considerably dis- placed. In rickets, the deformity of the thorax may account for some of the increased extent of the hepatic dulness below the costal arch. The liver is generally regarded as being enlarged in rickets. This is partly real, partly apparent, as explained above. In tight-lacing, narrowing of the lower part of the thorax often squeezes the liver downwards. In traumatic diaphragmatic hernia the liver may pass through the rent into the cavity of the pleura; a constriction has in some cases been foimd between the intrapleural portion and the rest of the liver; under these conditions the distal portion may become very congested. Acquired diaphragmatic hernia is very much commoner on the left side; it may contain the left lobe of the liver. Among the intrathoracic conditions that give rise to displacement of the liver the most important are pleural effusion and pneumothorax on the right side. The right lobe is depressed, and the liver then tends to be rotated from right to left on its antero - posterior axis. Similar conditions on the left side, or a large pericardial effusion, will depress the left lobe of the liver. Emphysema, and very extensive infiltration of the lung with new growth, also push the liver downwards, but only to a com- paratively slight degree. In mediastinal tumour there is no displacement of the liver, unless, as not infrequently occurs, there is a large pleural effusion at the same time. Abdominal Conditions leading to Displacement of the Liver.—-Generally speaking, abdominal conditions that displace the liver do so in an upward direction, but occasionally the liver may be depressed or rotated from side to side. Ascites, flatulent distension of the intestines, congenital dilatation of the colon, or the presence of large abdominal tumours, such as ovarian cysts, uterine fibromyomata, etc., push the liver and diaphragm up, and thereby encroach very seriously on the capacity of the thorax. The convexity of the diaphragm may then be on a level with the third rib. When this upward displacement is very considerable the liver may largely or even entirely cease to be in contact with the anterior abdominal wall, and undergoes a very striking alteration in its relation to other organs. The anterior surface travels backwards and becomes posterior, while