8 INVALID FEEDING bottle nearly full of milk and water, and put into each a small piece of yeast and a lump of sugar. Cork them tightly with new corks and fasten them down securely with wire. (The corks should be soaked for some time before being used.) Keep in a warm place, and shake them two or three times a day for from four to six days. This becomes very effervescent, and unless great care is used in opening a considerable quantity may be lost. Koumiss and kephir are both more easily digested than ordinary milk, and owing to the destruction of a part of the sugar they are use- ful in various disorders of the digestive tract. " Protene," the pure caseinogin from milk prepared as a flour, can now be obtained in the form of bread and biscuits (see vol. ii. p. 358). "Plasmon," a somewhat similar product, obtained from the proteids of milk in the form of a granulated soluble powder, is a recent useful addition to invalid dietetics. It can be added to gruels, meat teas, puddings, etc. Milk sugar, or lactose, has the advantage of not being very sweet. It may be added to milk soups or other liquids to increase the food value without appreciably altering the flavour. Eggs.—Next to milk an egg is one of the most valuable articles of an invalid's diet. Its composition is as follows :— Water. Proteid. Fat. Ash. White . 85-7 12-6 0-25 0-59 Yolk . 50-9 16-2 31-75 1-09 The ash is exceedingly rich in an organic iron compoiind and phosphorus, hence its acknow- ledged usefulness in the dietary of children in chlorosis. The excellence of an egg depends upon it being perfectly fresh and properly cooked. If cooked too long it becomes indigestible, but a lightly cooked egg is as digestible as a raw one. Raw eggs can be served in the following ways:— Prairie Oyster 1 fresh egg. 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Put the vinegar into a small cup and break the egg into it. Serve at once. This is a very digestible way of serving an egg, and it is very cool and refreshing. The next three recipes give the way of making up raw eggs into nourishing stimulant drinks. By adding nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon juice the flavour can be altered. Egg Drink 1 egg. 1 tea-spoonful sugar. 1 table-spoonful sherry wine. 1 teacup of milk. Beat up the egg, add to it the wine and sugar, and beat together with a fork slightly, and strain through a fine wire strainer. Heat the milk in a small saucepan, and when almost boiling pour it on to the egg, stirring all the time. Serve hot. This can be made without wine, flavouring with cinnamon or lemon juice. The yolk of the egg only may be used, and soda water instead of milk. Plain Egg Flip 1 teacup of milk. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. 1 white of egg. Boil the milk or make it thoroughly hot; beat up the white of egg to a stiff' froth. Pour the boiling milk over the white of egg, stirring all the time. Add sugar to taste, and serve. Rich Egg Flip 1 white of egg. 1 table-spoonful of cream. 1 table-spoonful brandy. Sugar to taste. Beat up the white of egg stiffly. Add to it the brandy and cream, with a little sugar if wished. Mix very thoroughly and serve. Cooked eggs may be served by themselves in several ways. Boiled Egg Put enough water into a small saucepan to entirely cover the egg. Allow the water to boil; lower the egg gently into it. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and allow the water to simmer slowly. Cook the egg for 3| to 4 minutes, tlien lift out and serve at once. If it is allowed to stand it becomes hard. T Poached Eqq 1 egg. BoiHng water. Lemon juice. Pinch of salt. Round of toast. Break the egg into a cup, keeping the yolk whole. Into a small saucepan of boiling water, add a pinch of salt and a squeeze of lemon juice. Draw [the water to the side, and when just off the boil slip the egg carefully into it. Cook slowly for three minutes, when the white should be quite set. Lift it out with a small fish slice or perforated spoon, and trim off any ragged edges of white. Place on a square of newly- made toast and serve at once. If required, this egg can be made richer by being served on buttered toast, or a little hot cream poured over it. Also, a poached egg served on two table-spoonfuls of carefully pre- pared spinach is a very nice dish. For method of preparing spinach, see p. 22. Rumbled Egg 1 egg. 1 table-spoonful milk. Pepper and salt. \ oz. butter. A piece of toast.