208 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED The Rare Forms of Contracted Pelvis 220 The Funnel-shwped Pelvis . ■ 221 The Oblique Pelvis of Naegele . . 221 The Transversely-cont7^acted Pelvis of Robert . . . . '. 222 The kyphotic Pelvis . . .222 The Kypho-scolio^'achitic Pelvis . 224 The Osteomalacic Pelvis . ■ ■ 225 The Pseudo-osteo7)ialacic Rickety Pelvis 225 Spondylolisthesis . . ■ .226 Spondylizema . . ■ . .227 Uffect of Fracture ajid of Hip-Disease on the Pelvis .... 228 The Diagnosis of Contracted Pelvis . 228 Pelvimetry . . . . . .228 I. External 228 II. Internal 229 The Treatment of Labour with Con- tracted Pelvis . . . . .232 Abortion 232 Prevention of Pregnancy . . . 232 Coesarean Section .... 233 Cephalotripsy ..... 233 Premature Labour .... 233 Symphysiotomy .... 233 Forceps ...... 234 Turning ...... 234 Slow Dilatation of the Os Uteri . 235 Cicatricial Contraction of Os . . 236 Congenital Smallness of Os . . 236 Labour with Cancer of Cervix . . 236 ,, Ovarian Tumour . . 237 ,, Uterine Fibroids . . 237 „ Tumours of Pelvic Bones 238 Labour is a mechanical process, which consists in the forcing open of the genital canal to a size large enough to let the child pass. The genital canal is in the bony pelvis ; but with a child of not more, and a pelvis of not less than average size, the child can pass without resistance from the pelvic bones, the only obstacle to its birth being the muscular and fibrous tissues of the pelvic floor. The average duration of first labours is about eighteen hours. The first stage consists in the dilatation of the os uteri. This opening- is bounded by thick fibro-muscular tissue, and has to be enlarged from about the size of a quill to a diameter of about four inches. Its ex- pansion takes about eighteen hours. The second stage consists in the dilatation of the vagina and vulva. This part of the genital canal is larger and more distensible than the os uteri; its dilatation, therefore, only takes about two hours. Its narrowest part is the vaginal orifice, and here the dilatation is always completed by tearing. When the canal has been opened up in former labours, it dilates more quickly; in labours not the first the dilatation of the os uteri takes about eleven hours, and of the vagina and vulva about half an hour. The foregoing figures are averages. The time occupied in any individual case depends upon three factors, which Alex. Simpson has happily named the " Powers, the Passenger, and the Passage ": first, the strength of the pains, and the down-bearing eff'orts with which the mother accompanies them ; second, the size of the child, which conditions the amount of dilatation re- quired ; third, the dilatability of the parts. If the child is very large, or if the pelvis is small, there may be resistance not only from the soft parts but from the bones, so that the child can only pass by altering its position in respect to the pelvic bones, and by alteration of the shape and size of its head by moulding. From alterations in the factors which have been specified, labour may be either very quick or very prolonged. Very quick labour is called " precipitate " labour. Precipitate Labour Precipitate labour implies that the child is not large in relation to the pelvis. The labour may be quick (a) because the soft parts easily dilate, the powers being either normal or unusually vigorous. The only harm that comes from this kind of precipitate labour is such as follows from the child being expelled before the mother ex- pects it. It may be driven out while the mother is at the water-closet, or in a vehicle, or standing. In the latter case, the sudden pull upon the um- bilical cord as the child drops often tears it through close to the umbilicus. The muscular fibres of the torn arteries usually close them, so that they bleed not. If the cord is too tough to tear, and not long enough to let the child lie on the floor, the pull upon the placenta may, after uterine contraction has passed off, invert the uterus. This is the sole danger arising from this kind of precipitate labour. Labour may be precipitate {b) because the powers are excessive; either the uterine action is exceptionally strong, or the mother's down-bearing efforts are excessive. In either case the eff"ect may be that the child is forced through the genital passage without time being given for this passage to dilate. The result is, that the parts are torn instead of stretched open, and bad lacerations of the cervix uteri, vagina, and perineum are the result; the last named being the most important. Cases have been recorded in which rupture of the sternum, subcutaneous emphysema, and cyanosis have been the result of the mother's excessive straining. The treatment of precipitate labour consists in two things : first, to keep the mother recumbent; second, to abolish excessive down-bearing effort by the administration of chloroform. In some cases, as, for instance, when valvular disease of the heart is present, the latter measure is of high importance. Prolonged Labour Prolonged labour may result (1) from weak- ness of the powers; (2) from large size of the