LABOUR, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE 259 The following are the principal causes of post-partum hgemorrhage :— (1) Retained Placental Fragments, Mem- branes, or Blood-Clots.—Such a condition is generally due to bad management of the third stage. Fragments of placenta and membranes may, however, also be retained owing to their too firm adhesion to the uterine wall, the result of a former endometritis. (2) Uterine Inertia.—This may in turn be due to: (a) previous over-distension of the uterus, as in hydramnios twins; (6) metritis; (c) prolonged labour; (d) weak muscular de- velopment of the uterus; (e) faulty shape of the uterus—maldevelopment; (/) tumours. (3) Precipitate Labour.—During a precipitate labour the uterus has not had time to undergo the normal amount of retraction, and conse- quently is not ready—so to speak—for the third stage. (4) Placenta Praevia.—In this condition the haemorrhage results from a portion of the placenta being attached to the non-contractile lower uterine segment. (5) Tumours of the Uterus.—These, as well as causing uterine inertia, act by preventing the uniform retraction of the fibres. (6) Any Condition which Weakens the Patient. —-Such are: (a) previous htemorrhages; (b) any form of wasting disease. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of atonic haemor- rhage is made by finding haemorrhage coming from the interior of a non-contracted or badly contracted uterus. Treatment.—The treatment of post-partum haemorrhage falls under two headings :— (i.) Prophylactic Treatment, (ii.) Curative Tx'eatment. (i.) Prophylactic Treatment.—The prophy- lactic treatment of atonic haemorrhage consists in the proper management of the third stage. The writer considers this to be a point of so great importance that he offers no apologies for giving a brief account of it in this place. As soon as the child is born the patient is turned upon her back, and the doctor or nurse " controls " the fundus with one hand. To do this, the hand is placed horizontally over the fundus of the uterus with its ulnar border sunk down into the abdomen so as to touch the promontory of the sacrum. It is thus in a position to note the occurrence or cessation of uterine contractions, and during the latter to prevent the accumulation of blood in the cavity by exerting firm pressure when necessary. If the bladder is full it ought to be emptied, as pressure over a distended bladder causes pain, and also makes the future expression of the placenta more difficult. Nothing further is done, if everything progresses in a normal manner, until the placenta has left the con- tractile part of the uterus. As soon as this occurs the placenta is expressed from the vagina by the "Dublin method," or, as it is more commonly, though incorrectly, termed, Crede's method. As the placenta passes through the vulva it is seized in the hands and gently rotated, so as to twist the membranes into a rope, and thus bring them away entire. Any slight haemorrhage which may occur is checked by massage of the fundus and the administration of ergot. As soon as it has ceased the binder is firmly applied; and, until the last pin which fastens it is in process of insertion, the control- ling hand should remain upon the fundus. If the third stage is correctly managed, the frequency of post-partum haemorrhage is reduced to a minimum. It is said that the number of cases of this form of htemorrhage which occur in a doctor's practice are in inverse proportion to the skill with which he manages this critical period. (ii.) Curative Treatment.—The ciirative treat- ment of post-partum haemorrhage is most satis- factory, if it is intelligently carried out. It is essential to have a definite plan of action laid down in our minds which we know so thoroughly that we shall follow it mechanically. Such a plan should be graduated so as to commence with the mildest measures, and then pass on— if they fail — to others which will be more radical. The following is such a plan in the order that should be adopted, and pi-esupposing that the failure of each measure in turn requires the adoption of the subsequent one :— (1) If haemorrhage starts after the birth of the child which is not checked by massage of the fundus, ascertain whether the placenta is in the uterus or vagina. The signs which tell us that the placenta has left the uterus are:— (a) The lengthening of the portion of cord which is outside the vulva. (b) The rising of the fundus upwards from a finger-breadth or two above the pelvic brim almost to the umbilicus. (c) The increased mobility of the body of the uterus owing to its upward displacement and consequent loss of support. If the placenta is in the uterus, try the effects of massage for a little longer. If this does not check the bleeding, or if the placenta was already in the vagina— (2) Express it by the Dublin method, if possible. To express the placenta, grasp the fundus with one or both hands during a pain, and press it downwards and backwards in the direction of the last piece of the sacrum. By this means the uterus is displaced downwards into the vagina, and the placenta driven out in front of it. Then stimulate the fundus to contract by friction and the administration of ergot. Up to three drachms of the liquid extract of ergot may be given by the mouth, but more certain and rapid in its action is the hypodermic administration of citrate of ergotinin. From ^-^ to -^j of a grain of the