V a 2 EDITORIAL NOTE This, the fifth, volume of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and. Surgery carries the work from Inulin to Lumbar Puncture, and contains 908 subject-headings. It also completes the first half of the whole work. The outstanding article, containing seventeen subdivisions by some twelve or thirteen authors, is that on Labour ; and there is also a series of papers dealing with the Larynx and its Diseases. Of articles of more than 1000 words there are forty-seven. These include the various subdivisions of the two large groups headed Labour and Larynx respectively, as well as con- tributions on Invalid Feeding, Iris and Ciliary Body, Jav/ndice, Diseases of Joints, the Physiology and Surgical Affections of the Kidney, Diseases and Injuries of the Knee-Joint, Diseases of the Lacrimal Apparatus, Lardaceous Degeneration, the Crystalline Lens, Leprosy, Leucocythcemia, Leucocytosis, Lichen, Life Insurance, the Physiology and Diseases of the Liver, and Lwmhago. New articles have been added dealing with Cleidotomy, Iodine and the Iodides, and the X-Rays in LeukcBmia. There are sixty-nine articles of less than 1000 words but of at least ten lines in length. These include contributions on such subjects as Inulin, Inunction, diversion, lodism. Iodoform, Ionic Action, Ipecacuanha, Iritis, Iron, Irrigation, Irritants, Isomer and Isomeric, Isotonic, Jaborandi, Jachsonian Epilepsy, Jalap, Jaws, Juniper, Kaladana, Kava, Kephir, Keratin, Keratitis, Keratosis, Kino, KjeldahVs Method, Knee-Joint, Ki'amerioe Radix, Labia, Lactic Acid, Lagaphthalmos, Lanoline, Laparotomy, Laryngismus Stridulus, Latah, Latent, Laundries, Laurocerasi Folia, Lavage, Lavender, Lead, Lecithin, Leeches, Lembert Suture, Lemon, Leontiasis Ossea, Leptothrix, Lesion, Leucine, L.G.B., Ligaments, Linseed, Lipoma, Liquor, Liquorice, Lithium, Lixiviation, Lochia, Lodging-Houses, and Lopez Root. There are 792 subject-headings and short paragraphs dealing with a great variety of matters. In order to show their diverse character, I may name a few. There are definitions or short explanations of Inversion, Invertins, Involution, loderma, lodophilia, lodothyrin, Iridectomy, Irideremia, Iridocinesis, Iridodesis, Iridodialysis, Iridodonesis, Iridoplegia, Iridotomy, Iirrespirable Gases, Isadelphia, Ischcemia, Ischiadelphia, Ischialgia, Ischiocele, Ischuria, Isobars, Isogens, Iso- therms, Isotropy, Ispaghula, Jacquemier's Test, Jactitation, Janiceps, Jaiv-Clonus, Jecorin, Jejunostomy, Jensen's Pump, Jensen's Tumour, Jigger, Jiu-Jitsu, Jumpers, Justo-Major, Justo-Minor, Kahler's Disease, Kala-azar, Kalmuck Idiocy, Kaposi's Disease, Kataphoresis, Kehrer's Operation, Keratolysis, Keratoma, Kernig's Sign, Ketones, Kiestine, King's Evil, Kirrhonosis, Klikuschi, Knacker, Kneippism, Kocher's Operation, Koplik's Spots, Korsakoff s Syndrome, Kraurosis, Kromskop, Kutubuth, Labitome,