INVALID FEEDING 23 Have on the fire a deep saucepan three- quarters full of briskly boiling water ; add salt to it, and put the cauliflower in head downwards. Let it boil from twenty minutes to half an hour, until the flower feels tender, but is not broken up. Kemove the scum as it rests ; this, besides being dirty, would discolour the head. When ready, lift it out and drain for a minute or two on a sieve, and then serve with the white sauce, or white sauce and grated Parmesan cheese browned as on p. 30. Onions.—Spanish onions are by far the best for eating as a dish, the flavour being not so strong. when onions are plain boiled they are best served on dry toast without any sauce. A large Spanish onion takes about three hours' boiling to become tender. Baked.—Place one or two Spanish onions in a baking-tin with a little butter : baste occasionally. When finished, they should be of a nice brown colour. They will also require about three hours' baking. Stewed.—Place a large Spanish onion in a saucer at the bottom of the saucepan, and put sufficient equal parts of milk and water to reach the edge of the saucer. Keep the lid of the saucepan on tight, and let it steam for about 3| hours until it is quite tender. The water from the onion will prevent the necessity of adding fresh water. Serve it with the milk in which it has been stewed. Plain Boiled Mice.—Well wash some Patna rice in several waters until the last water looks quite clean. If there is a pot for steaming the rice, it is best to use this; but if not, boil the rice in a saucepan of boiling water containing salt, which is in the proportion of one tea-spoon- ful to the quart. Boil quickly with the lid off", stirring it frequently with a fork to prevent it sticking to the pan. Cook from ten to fifteen minutes, until the grains will rub down easily when one is tested between the finger and thumb. Strain through sieve or strainer, and finish the cooking by drying it—either by putting it into the saucepan by the side of the fire, or putting it on to a plate in a moderate oven. While drying, stir lightly with a fork every now and then to keep the grains separate. W.£.—The water in which the rice has been boiled contains the best part of the rice, so it should not be thrown away, but kept for the stock-pot. Boiled Macaroni.—Break the macaroni into short lengths, and throw it into a saucepan of freshly boiling water with salt in it. Boil quickly with the lid off" the pan until it has thoroughly swelled and is tender. Stir occasionally to prevent it sticking. The time depends on the variety of macaroni—the large pipe will take about half an hour, the small much longer. Keep it well covei'ed with water. When ready, drain; and this may either be served plain with meat, or it may be put back into the saucepan with enough stock to cover and allowed to stew for half an hour. The pulp of a fresh tomato rubbed through a sieve may also be added to this. Food for the Aged Owing to the failing intestinal activity incident to the later years of life, the digestive tract in old people has to be treated with more con- sideration than obtains in earlier years. This is especially true of those subjects whose "old age" has been induced by a manifest organic weakness in the kidney, stomach, heart, lungs, or other viscera, but it is also applicable to others in whom no such manifest organic disease exists. The old adage " once a man and twice a child " applies very aptly to the feeding of the aged. It is impossible to lay down specific directions appropriate to the numerous conditions com- prised imder this heading, and all that will be attempted is to indicate a few guiding rules as to the choice and preparation of the most suitable forms of nourishment. It may be stated as an invariable rule that the intake of food should be diminished as the general bodily activity decreases, and further, that red meats and rich oily dishes shoixld give place to white meats and simple farinaceous foods. All foods must be in a form admitting of easy mastication. Milk and Cream.—Cream is a capital substi- tute for other forms of fatty foods to which the patient has been previously accustomed. Milk should always form a large portion of the dietary, if it is digested. The tendency should be to increase the intake of milk as the vegetables are diminished. If milk taken alone is too constipating, add a little saline water, such as Vichy or Vals. It is best always to take the chill off" the milk before giving it to old people. Whey (p. 7) can be used as a substitute for milk, and with the addition of cream it forms both a pleasant as well as a nourishing food. Milk is also combined with the various forms of gruels and farinaceous puddings. Cocoa and milk and coff'ee and milk are also very good ; and if these prove indigestible, the peptonised brands before mentioned (p. 10) may be tried instead. Soups.—These, when made simply, are all permissible; but rich consommes, hare soup, turtle soup, etc. throw too much strain on the digestion to be advisable. Chicken, veal, and beef teas (p. 13) may be used as beverages, and are most useful for giving to the patient last thing before retiring to bed, or a cup of "tea" left beside the bed to take if the patient is wakeful. In addition