LABOUE, ACCIDENTAL COMPLICATIONS 252 caused by prolonged pressure on the head, frequently produced by forceps, causing injury to the centres in the medulla, or causing haemorrhages into the brain or beneath the dura mater. The causes of still-birth comprise, first, those conditions in which the supply of oxygenated blood from the mother to the foetus is inter- fered with; among these may be mentioned pressure on the cord in breech presentations, where the after-coming head is delayed, and compression of the cord where it is prolapsed or coiled round the foetus ; second, those cases in which the mother's condition during labour becomes very grave, either as a result of severe ante-partum haemorrhage, eclanaptic convulsions occurring during labour, or exhaustion of the mother from prolonged labour ; third, those cases in wliich there is direct injury to the centres in the brain from prolonged pressure, as in cases of forceps delivery in case of difficult vertex presentations, or in case of prolonged traction where the after-coming head is delayed. The signs of still-birth depend on the degree of asphyxia. For the characteristic signs and special treatment of asphyxia livida and pallida the reader is referred to the special article on this subject, Asphyxia (Resuscitation), vol. i. Eetention of Placenta Definition ..... . 252 Simple Retention in Uterus . . 252 Morbid Adhesion of Placenta . 253 Spasmodic Contraction op Uterus . 253 Retention in a Fibroid Uterus . . 254 Retention of Fragments . 254 Retention in Cervix or Vagina . . 254 Method of Removal . 255 Definition.—-When the placenta is not dis- charged from the genital canal within a certain period following the birth of the child, it is said to be retained. The duration of the third stage of labour is, however, subject to such wide varia- tions in normal cases that any definition of "reten- tion " must of necessity be more or less arbitrary. From the Strasburg Maternity 100 cases have recently been reported in which the separation and expulsion of the placenta were left entirely to nature, and in 44 of these cases the third stage occupied an hour or less ; in only 80 cases was it concluded within three hours ; in the remaining 20 cases it occupied various longer periods up to twelve hours. Ahlfeld states that if the expulsion of the placenta is left entirely to nature, in only 5 to 8 cases per 1000 does retention occur. Strictly speaking, reten- tion of the placenta ought, therefore, to be a rare complication of labour. The tendency of modern practice, however, is, and has been for some time, to shorten the natural duration of the third stage by assisting the expulsion of the placenta by compression and manipulation of the uterus, while, if the placenta is not delivered within an hour, the case is regarded as one requiring more active interference on the part of the medical attendant. Retention of the placenta as thus understood has consequently become one of the most frequent complica- tions of labour with which we have to deal. But it should be clearly understood that delay is the only fault in a large number of such cases. Varieties. — There are two stages in the normal process of expulsion of the placenta : A, its separation from the uterine wall and passage into the lower uterine segment and cervix; B, its expulsion from the body through the vagina and vulva. In cases left entirely to nature it is found that stage A (stage of separation) seldom occupies more than fifteen to twenty minutes; while stage B (stage of expulsion) is usually very much longer. It follows from this that a retained placenta may lie. A, in the uterine cavity {i.e. above the retraction ring); B, in the lower uterine segment and cervix, or in the vagina. Since the expulsion stage is naturally much longer than the separation stage, it follows that the placenta will be oftener found retained in the cervix or vagina than in the uterus. The cause of retention in the uterus is always non- separation of the placenta, either complete or partial; the causes of retention in the cervix or vagina are (1) non-separation of the membranes, (2) deficiency of the expulsive forces. The frequency of the two varieties (A and B) is in inverse ratio to their importance : retention in the uterus is relatively rare, but of major importance ; retention in the vagina is relatively frequent, but of minor importance. A. Retention in the Uterus ; Retention with Non-Separation either complete or partial.—This is due to some hitch in the normal process of separation of the placenta. As a rule, either uterine contraction and retrac- tion are incomplete, or they are unable to effect separation owing to the abnormal firmness of the placental attachments. The former is well designated ^'■simple 7-etention in the uterus" and is dependent upon some degree of uterine inertia; the latter is the condition known as " morJtid adhesion of the 2ilacenta." These two are the commonest varieties of retention of the placenta in the uterus. A much rarer variety is that dependent upon spasmodic contraction of the uterus, or, as it is usually called, " hour-glass contraction." In this curious condition there are two factors—(1) non-separation (complete or partial) of the placenta ; (2) spasmodic closure of the lower part of the uterine cavity. An- other rare condition is retention in the uterus from the mechanical obstacle offered by a fibroid tumovu' occupying the lower part of the uterine cavity. These four varieties of retention in the uterus must now be noticed in detail. I. Simple Eetention in the Uterus.—This con-