521 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES features of a condition which, unless the parasite itself or the eggs are met with in the Yomit or in the stools, is well-nigh impossible to assign to the proper cause. The changes induced in the biliary passages vary. Occasionally the ducts are dilated, paunched, inflamed, and even purulent. The Distomum sinense and the changes it causes in the biliary passages have been most exactly recorded. Baelz has recorded that in certain Japanese villages 20 per cent of the inhabitants suffered from this parasite. In these persons the distomum was found in the gall-bladder, the hepatic and bile ducts in great numbers; the passages become dilated and paunched, and in the paunches the parasites thrive in swarms. The liver and spleen are recorded by Baelz to be enlarged, and the mucous surfaces of the gut in a state of chronic catarrh. In the liver the parts in contact with the main branches of the hepatic ducts atrophy ; anaemia, anasarca, and a cachectic state supervene, but it may be only after years of gradual decline. The Pentastomum constrictum causes, accord- ing to Aitken, cysts in the liver within which the parasite lies coiled up. When the cysts occupy the surface of the liver a local peri- hepatitis may be set up, and it is possible to feel the cysts as nodules upon the liver surface. Treat^nent.—When the ova of any of the liver parasites appear in the stool or in the faeces attempts may be made by anthelmintics to dis- lodge the parasite. In the case of the Ascaris lumbricoides this may be effected by santonine, but no specific means is known whereby the liver-flukes may be dislodged. Hydatids of the Liver The hydatids met with in the human liver differ in no essential point from those met with elsewhere in the body. In England and Wales during ten years (1871-1880) 436 deaths were returned as due to hydatid disease, representing 1 death out of 11,876 deaths during that period. In British India, from 1870 to 1879, 8 cases occurred in soldiers belonging to the European army, whilst in the native army no cases of hydatids were met with. In the Punjab, 4 cases of hydatids were diagnosed in natives in nineteen years' observation at Lahore, out of a total of 25,579 in-patients. In Hong-Kong the writer never met with a case of hydatids in Chinese during nine years' hospital experience, and in Southern China generally the disease is unknown. It is by the dog as the primary host and sheep as intermediary hosts that the life cycle of the echinococcus is chiefly maintained, and in Southern China there are no sheep. Site.—Hydatids are much more frequently met with in the right lobe of the liver than in the left. There has been no explanation offered of this seeming idiosyncrasy, but, as pointed out by the writer, it may be accounted for by the mistaken notion that the right lobe is five or six times larger than the left. Signs and Symptoms.—The physical signs of a hydatid hepatic tumour wholly depend on its size and situation ; when the tumour is small it may give rise to no symptoms or signs, but when its dimensions are considerable the local indications will vary according as the tumour is within the liver, upon the upper aspect of the liver, or attached to its under surface, i.e. ac- cording as the hydatid is s?tprahepatic, intra- hepatic, or s^^hepatic. The intrahepatic type, as being the most common, will be taken as the basis for description. An hydatid tumour of the liver may remain latent, that is to say, the tumour even when of fair size may occupy the liver without giving rise to either pain or in- convenience. The detection, post-mortem, of hydatids previously unsuspected is one of the chief characteristics of the disease. The presence of a hydatid tumour may be made manifest by the patient accidentally noticing an enlargement in the hepatic region, by local discomfort or ascites, jaundice or biliary colic may develop, and during examination of the liver the physician may recognise an hydatid tumour as the origin of any of these conditions. Marked pain is an uncommon symptom. The usual complaint is that of a feeling of weight or dragging extending from the right hypochon- drium upwards towards the shoulder, or there may be some difficulty in breathing or cardiac distress. Escape of the contents of the hydatid into a bile duct or the peritoneal cavity causes characteristic attacks of pain peculiar to each. Clinical Characters of the Tumour.-—The hydatid when of moderate dimensions is usually globular, but when it attains large proportions the outline will be modified by the resistance met with as it encroaches on neighbouring viscera and structures. The surface of the tumour is smooth and rounded in outline; very rarely is the tumour of lobulated character. On palpation there is a sensation of elasticity; fluctuation is to be felt when the tumour has thinned out the liver tissue and approached the wall of the abdomen. The hydatid thrill, fremitus, or vibration is but seldom present, and is not conclusive proof that the tumour is hydatid in origin; but as hydatids are by far the most common hepatic tumours of cystic character, the thrill when it can be felt is of some value in diagnosis. Constitutional symptoms set up by the presence of even a very large uncomplicated hydatid tumour are seldom in evidence. As a rule there is no interference with the general health, the temperature is not altered, and except for pressure on neighbouring organs there are no signs or symptoms indicative of the ailment beyond the local evidences. If the pressure is upwards, an irritating cough may