LABOUR, OPERATIONS—VERSION 289 can be readily performed, and a foot dragged through the cervix to act as a plug against further haemorrhage. It is also of incalculable value in the easy or early rectification of shoulder presentations. Unfortunately, it can- not be performed after the liquor amnii has drained away, and now the only method that is applicable is the— Internal Method.—From a teaching point of view the term "internal," in contradistinction to the "combined" method of turning, is un- fortunate, as it conveys the idea that manipu- lation is wholly intra-uterine, when in reality the external hand placed over the exterior plays as important a role as in both of the preceding methods described. The operation essentially consists in the introduction of the entire hand into the uterine cavity, by which means one or other pole of the foetus is grasped and made to present. From the difficulty in seizing the foetal head internal version is usually podalic, although the cephalic is now more frequently attempted than formerly. This method of operating is of great antiquity, and, until the recent perfecting of forceps, was by far the most common mode of artificial delivery. It is the only method of version applicable after the liquor amnii has drained away. Method of Operating.—The patient should be anaesthetised, so that uterine relaxation may be as. complete as possible, and at the same time the absence of any movement on the part of the patient facilitates the ready accomplishment of the operation and minimises risk. Having placed the patient in the dorsal or left lateral position, according to the operator's fancy, he then, after having thoroughly disinfected his hands, proceeds to introduce one slowly into the uterus. The choice of hand has been, and is, a much controverted subject, and must be left very much to the judgment of each individual operator without laying down any binding rule; but generally it may be said that in dorso- anterior positions the left hand, and in dorso- posterior positions the right hand, seem to be more readily applicable than vice verm. The introduction of the hand into the vagina is to be done by a rotatory movement, the fingers previously having been arranged to form a cone. All attempts at introduction or manipulation whatsoever must be confined to the intervals of pains; during uterine contractions the hand must remain quiescent, and be flattened out as much as possible. Having reached the os externum, if it be large enough to admit the passage of the hand, the movement upwards is continued in a rotatory manner until the uterine cavity is entered. Should the membranes be unruptured the fingers must be bored through them at the most dependent part, and the hand at once VOL. V pushed into the uterus to block the entire escape of the liquor amnii. The hand should now be more or less flattened out and carried along the ventral aspect of the foetus until the part desired to catch is reached. During the introduction of the internal hand the other hand must be placed over the uterus externally to form a counter-pressure to any forcible internal manipu- lation, so that overstretching of the vaginal attachments of the uterus may be prevented, and at the same time assist in bringing the foetal parts nearer the inside hand. In podalic version a much debated point exists as to which foot or knee is to be grasped. In dorso-anterior cases it is almost universally agreed that either which is first met with should be seized, but in dorso-posterior positions there is much diflier- ence of opinion among authori- ties. In the majority of in- stances it is found that the part which is grasped will ro- tate anteriorly when pulled on, and thus, by grasping the up- per or farther knee, the entire foetus will be made to rotate on its long axis, which may assist greatly in the dislodgment of the pre- senting part should it be already fixed (Figs. 5 and 6). Having seized the part desired, slow, gentle, and steady traction must now be made while the opposite pole is pressed in the opposite direction by the external hand. During pains, all manipula- tions are to be avoided. After version has been completed and the foot dragged into the vagina, the expulsion should be left to nature and treated as an ordinary breech case, unless spe- cial indications are present for immediate delivery. With the membranes immediately previously intact, or but recently ruptured, version is usually an extremely simple operation; but in cases where the liquor amnii has been for long drained away and the uterus firmly retracted on the child, the difficulties and risks are very great and sometimes insuperable. Here the lower lateral segment will be found extremely 19 Fig. 5.—Internal version, 1st stage. (After SchafFer.) Fig. 6.—Internal version, 2nd stag (After Scliiifier.)