22 INVALID FEEDING Vegetables As the nutritive value and digestibility of vegetables depend largely on their careful pre- paration, a short account of the best methods of preparing many of them is here given :— Spinach.—One of the most easily d'igested vegetables, if properly cooked. The preliminary difficulty in thoroughly cleaning spinach and the removing of the tough stalks are the two important points in the preparation of spinach. It also reduces enormously in cooking, and 1 lb. will make a very small dish. Double the leaves lengthways and strip off the stalks. Then wash the spinach thoroughly in several waters until all the grit is removed. Handle it as lightly as possible, as touching it too much causes the leaves to lose their crispness. Put it into a saucepan without any water except that which adheres to the leaves; sprinkle it with salt, and put the lid on the pan. Spinach is the only green vegetable which is cooked with the lid on the pan, as no water is used. Were the lid off, the spinach might burn from the evaporation. Cook until it is quite tender for stirring with a spoon, twenty to thirty minutes. When ready, drain off the water in a fine wire sieve with a basin below. Then remove the basin, and rub the spinach through the sieve on to this; scrape the sieve well beneath. Retvirn the spinach to a saucepan with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt; stir over the fire until thoroughly hot; add a squeeze of lemon juice or cream. This can be eaten with small pieces of toast or fried bread. If served with a poached egg on it, it will make a nice dinner for a delicate person. Boiled Lettuce.—Wash a couple of lettuces thoroughly and remove any discoloured leaves, and let them lie in cold water for a short time. Drain the water off, and put them in a pan of boiling water and a little salt. Boil quickly for about twenty minutes, when they should be quite tender. Keep the lid of the pan off. Remove any scum that rises. When ready, drain and chop up the leaves on a board. Return to the saucepan with a small piece of butter, pepper, and more salt if required. Tomatoes.—These have most flavour when baked, but can be boiled or stewed. Wipe them first and remove the stalks. Put them on a greased baking-tin or fire-proof dish, add a little pepper and salt, and cover with a piece of greased kitchen paper. Bake for ten minutes until they feel soft. Lift on to a clean hot dish, and serve. Steamed Asparar/ns. — Trim the asparagus. and steam by putting it in a jam-pot nearly filled with boiling water, placed in a large saucepan half full of boiling water and lightly covered. The asparagus will take nearly an hour to cook in this manner. Serve with a sauce made of 1 oz. of melted butter, 1 table-spoonful of cream, the yolk of an egg, and 5 drops of lemon juice. Stir in mixture for a few minutes over the fire until thoroughly warmed. Celery, Sea - Kale, and youny Leeks. — For celery, choose it when fresh and crisp; remove the coarse outside leaves, as they can be used for flavouring. Put away the root; separate the stalks, wash and brush them well in cold water, and scrape off any brown or discoloured parts with a knife ; cut the stalks equal lengths, tie them together with tape (string would cut through), and throw them into a basin of clean cold water, and allow them to soak in this for a few moments before cooking. To cook :—Put into a saucepan of a freshly boiling mixture of equal parts of milk and water, and a little salt. Boil with the lid off for about half an hour, when it should be quite tender. Drain well, remove the tape and serve on a small piece of toast. This is not meant to be eaten, but it is for the purpose of more thoroughly drawing the moisture of the vegetable. All these vegetables can be served with a little well-made white sauce served round them. This sauce, unless properly made, is much better away, as butter sauce, as commonly served, is a compound of uncooked flour and milk. White Sauce \ oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. 1 gill of milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. A pinch of salt. Take a small lined saucepan : rinse it out first with cold water to prevent the sauce sticking to the foot of it, and melt in it the butter over the fire, being careful it does not brown. Then add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth ; cook it for a minute or two over the fire to give it a glossy appearance. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, add the milk or fish stock, and then stir constantly over the fire until boiling. Boil for two or three minutes in order to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste. CaM^//?o;/ier.—A young cauliflower with a firm, close head. Trim off the thick part of the stalk and nearly all the leaves. Split the stalk in opposite directions that the water may get in and cook it well. Wash in cold water, and let it lie in fresh water and 1 tea-spoonful vinegar to draw out any insects.