2 INVALID FEEDING Prepared and Predigested Foods . . 9 Peptonised Foods . . . . .10 Food in Pyrexial States . . .12 Beverages, Meat Teas, Extracts, Juices 12, 13, 14 Food in Convalescence . . .14 Milk Puddings, Fish, Soups, Meats, Vegetables .... 15-23 Food in Old Age .... 23 Soups, Fish, Vegetables, Fruits . 23-26 Special Cookery for Diabetes . . 26 Salisbury Diet . . . . .31 See also Diet ; Digestion ; Diabetes Mel- LiTUS ; Food ; Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy ; Gout ; Infant Feeding ; etc. Introductory.—The nutritive constituents of food, their relative values, and the factors which modify individual requirements in health, have already been considered in the article on " Diet " (vol. ii.). In disease, as in health, we must have regard to the functions of food, as building material, fuel, and su,ppliers of energy; and we have here also to consider the modifying influence of age and sex, height and build, and the amount of work or rest to be indulged in, and any personal peculiarities in the requirements of each individual case. But, above all, we must remember that if the palate, or the sense of sight or smell be offended, no matter what the nutritive value of a food may be, the food is valueless; and as the most frequent cause of offence lies in a want of knowledge of certain practical details in the manner and preparation of foods, the scope of this article will be mainly limited to noting these points. Every practi- tioner should possess some knowledge of cookery. It is idle for the pi'actitioner to recommend certain food-stuffs without taking all necessary precautions to ensure that the manner of their preparation is suited to the palate as well as to the physiological capacity of the patient. Yet such recommendations are by no means rarely made. While in many houses where there is a thoroughly competent housewife or a trained nurse, any directions regarding the manner of preparation of egg flip, sweetbread, or the cooking of an oyster, may be superfluous, other cases are only too numerous where, if the practitioner has not the practical knowledge to enable him to give his instructions in detail, the patient suffers in consequence. To illustrate: The following instructions for an egg flip are frequently given :—" Beat up an egg ; add a little milk, a little sugar, and a stated quantity of brandy." What is the result? For lack of the requisite straining of the mixture the second or third mouthful taken by the patient may include the streaky, tenacious portion known as the trend, which is to many people so nauseating that no more egg flip will be taken at that time or for many a day thereafter. And in the same way with many other dishes. General Preparation of Food.—Cooking increases the digestibility of food-stuffs by exercising a mechanical, chemical, and anti- parasitic effect on the food, and it is of great importance in ordering a diet for an invalid that the physician shoiild understand at least the main principles by which the food is pre- pared. The mechanical action is a twofold one : the prolonged heat acts by softening hard tissues and by preparing tough tissues for mastication. Also, as the functions of digestion and assimila- tion are best carried on at a blood heat, one object of cooking is to raise the food to a suitable temperature, and thus spare the bodily energies as much as possible. The chemical changes taking place act on the meat substances by transforming the connective tissues into gelatine, the proteids of the meat at the same time developing odorous substances which impart flavour and stimulate the appetite. The starch granules are broken up and prepared for the action of the saliva, and the cooking converts some of the starch into dextrine and even into maltose. These chemical changes can be further carried on by the addition of some of the pancreatic ferments, which trans- form the albuminous substances into peptones, and also act on the starches, and carry on the further transformation of the starches into soluble sugars. These more complicated changes are further considered under the Predigested and Prepared Food section (see p. 9). Not the least important action of cooking is the destruction of the parasites and pathogenic bacteria of disease that may occur in the food. The effect of different degrees of heat on albumin is the keynote to all the various culinary methods, which are variations of one another depending on whether the meat juices are to be retained or extracted. (a) When the meat juices are to be retained there is, first, a preliminary case hardening of the albumin by intense heat; after which, cooking proceeds at a lower temperature, rising in the interior of the meat just to the coagulating point of albumin. This object may be carried out by any of the following methods :— (i.) Roasting, Grilling, Baking.—The heat being radiant heat and hot gases. (ii.) Steaming and Boiling.—In this the heat is hot water. (iii.) Frying, Wet or Dry.—This process is carried on by hot oil or hot oil and conduction. By following these methods we retain all the nutritive, sapid qualities within the portion, leaving none of them, or very little, in the medium used. [b) If the juices are to be extracted from the meat the result is a stew or a soup. Stewing first exti-acts the juice and then cooks the meat in it, and is thus conducted slowly and over a long time.