1 ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAKY OP MEDICINE AND SUEGERY Inulin.—A carbohydrate (eCgHioOjjHgO) closely allied to dextrin; differing from it, however, in containing leevulose instead of dextrose molecules; it is a white powder and is contained in elecampane (Inula helenium), colchicum, arnica, dandelion, etc.; iodine turns it yellow, and it is converted into sugar by its own special ferment and not by diastase. See Physiology ; Food and Digestion (Food, Carbo- hydrates). I n U n Ct i O n. See also Pharmacology ; Syphilis (Treatmeiit of Secondary Syphilis by Mercury).—Inunction consists in the applica- tion of a medicinal substance to the skin in such a manner as will lead to its absorption. Various diseases, both of a local and general nature, may be treated by this method. Of these, perhaps the best illustrations may be found in the use of mercury for syphilis, cod- liver oil or other fatty substance in cases of markedly impaired nutrition, and olive or other oil in certain cases of chronic rheumatism. The beneficial effects accruing from such use of oils are not sufficiently appreciated. In the cases that are materially improved by this treatment the benefit is probably explained by the influence of the oil on the local, and it may be general derangement of fat metabolism in the body. No matter what the nature of the case may be there are certain elementary points to be attended to. These can be stated shortly:—(i.) A preliminary stimulation and softening of the skin by heat in the form of hot water immersion is of great service in furthering the efficient absorption of the drug. (ii.) The oily fluid or the ointment should be thoroughly rubbed into the selected part at bed- time, the friction being mainly from below up- wards, and continued for ten to twenty minutes. (iii.) Thereafter the limb or other part of the body should be covered with a layer of vol. V flannel more or less impregnated with the substance, and left in contact over night. The parts are thoroughly washed in the morning, and the treatment continued at the discretion of the physician. Lately additional interest has been given to this subject by the strong expression of opinion by various writers to the effect, that, so far as mercury is concerned, the system becomes impregnated with it, not by a process of cutaneous absorption, as has long been held, but by a process of volatilisation. Recent clinical experience, it may be added, lends a good deal in support of this belief. The methods recently introduced consist in applying to the surface of the chest, as a kind of under vest, a specially prepared cloth containing a mercurial preparation in its interior. The advantages of this manner of administration from a point of view of cleanliness are apparent, and if a more extended experience confirms its efficiency, the older system of inunction will probably give place entirely to it. Inva.g'ina.tion. See Intestines, Sur- gical Affections of (Intestinal Obstruction, Intussusception). Invalid Feeding^. Introductory ..... 2 General Preparation of Food . . 2 (a) When Juices are Retained— Roasting, Grilling, Baking, Boil- ing, and Frying ... 3 (b) When Juices are Extracted— Stewing, Braising, and Soup- making ..... 4 General Serving of Foods— Including Nasal and Rectal Feeding . 5 Milk and its Products— Whey, Koumiss, etc. . . . 6, 7, 8 Eggs 8