LABOUR, INJURIES DURING 269 surfaces by means of a Hagedorn's small half- circle needle with silk-worm gut, as in Fig. 59, or by a rectangular needle set in a handle (see Fig. 61). Drain- age and antiseptic douchingare especi- ally necessary if the pouch of Douglas, or the cellular tissue of the broad ligament, is opened up. The gauze drain should be left in situ for at least three days. 4. Injuries to THE Pelvic Floor. —Anatomy.—• The pelvic floor, bound- ed externally by the skin and internally by the peritoneum, consists of a dia- phragm of muscles with coverings de- rived from the Laceration of the pelvic pelvic fascia, SUp- FlO. 59. floor rectum, with sutures properly placed ready for tying. (Norris.) by a ficia extending half-way to the ported from below more super- series of smaller muscles, fascia, and connective tissue padding, the whole covered by skin. The pelvic diaphragm consists of the powerful levatores ani and coccygei muscles, which practi- cally shut off the pelvic outlet, allowing the rectum and vagina to pass through, and to be supported by rather intimate fusion of their muscle elements with those of the diaphragm. These two muscles constitute a sling, attached to the pubes in front, and, sweeping almost horizontally backwards, embrace the vagina and rectum, and are attached posteriorly to the coccyx. The levatores ani are attached along both sides from the back of the pubes, the " white line " of pelvic fascia, the ischial spines, and lesser sciatic ligaments, and then unite with each other and with the coccygei muscles along the middle line to complete the diaphragm. The muscles then curve downwards and inwards to the lower ends of the vagina and rectum, helping to form the internal sphincter of the latter, and uniting behind the rectum along the mid-line of the perineum till they reach the coccyx. The pelvic fascia divides into two layers along the " white line." The upper, visceral, or recto- vesical fascia covers the upper surface of the levatores ani, and is a structure of great value in enabling the pelvic floor to resist undue intra- abdominal pressure. The lower layer of the pelvic fascia is the obturator fascia, covering the obturator internus muscle, and forming the external investment of the ischio-rectal fossa. A thin sheet is also given off from the pelvic fascia at the " white line "—the anal fascia—to cover the under surface of the levatores ani muscles. The more superficial structures consist of accessory smaller muscles, the transversi perinei, the bulbo-cavernosi, and the erectores clitoridis, with the superficial pelvic fascia, continuous with the triangular pubic ligament, whose two layers fill in the pubic arch, support the urethra, and form an attachment to the anterior fibres of the levatores ani. The perineum, largely composed of the above-named structures, will be described later on. The pelvic floor may be said to be com- posed of two segments, an anterior or pubic, and a posterior or sacral, the vaginal cleft being between. In labour the anterior segment is drawn up, whilst the posterior is forced down, and is stretched by the presenting part. Injuries, therefore, to the tissues of the pelvic floor during labour almost always occur in the posterior segment, which includes part of the perineum and the perineal body, whose injuries will be hereafter discussed. Nature and Position of Injuries to the Pelvic Flooi-.—There is no doubt that fibres of the levatores ani may be torn or unduly stretched, or their attachments to bony or ligamentous points loosened. Occasionally it would seem that the pelvic fascia itself is injured, for the whole pelvic floor lies at a lower level than before labour, and is more influenced by intra- abdominal pressure than it should be, moving too freely with inspiration, coughing, etc. Schatz and Howard Kelly are firm believers in such in- juries ; but it must be remembered that although they undoubtedly occur, the fact that gaps are felt in the levatores ani after labour does not prove injury, for those muscles run in distinct bundles with spaces between, and these can sometimes be felt even in primiparse. No post- mortem proofs of such lacerations have yet been published. Prophylaxis.—The eflicient treatment of ob- structed labour and of too rapid labour should prevent these injuries. Treatment.—If injury to the pelvic floor has been diagnosed, the patient must be kept in bed longer than usual ; but if, as would usually happen, the diagnosis is not made until after some weeks, when secondary symptoms have arisen, she must be warned against prolonged standing, and against all occupations which produce downward pressure on the pelvic dia- phragm. Moderate rest, avoidance of constipa- tion, and of tight corsets or abdominal bands, should be insisted upon, and in some cases a suitable vaginal pessary may be worn till the pelvic floor is able to take its full part in sup- porting the uterus. Such patients often find temporary relief from a bandage with a perineal pad to support the perineum.