LIVER, DISEASES OF 469 When, as is very rarely the case, a serous cyst is sufficiently large to give rise to clinical signs, it is indistinguishable from a hydatid cyst, and should be treated in the same way. (3) In long-standing biliary obstruction the bile ducts in the liver become greatly dilated; at first they contain bile, but after a time they are found to be distended with clear mucous fluid. (4) Pseudo-Cysts.—By the softening of ade- nomatous masses in cirrhosis cystic cavities containing degenerated liver-cells may result. Pseudo-cysts may also be produced by degenera- tive processes in masses of secondary malignant disease. In some instances of softened masses of growth the appearances are exactly like those of cysts. This has been observed in squamous- celled carcinoma and in sarcoma. (5) Cystic adenomata of the bile ducts have in very rare instances been described (vide Adenomata, p. 466). (6) In tuberculous disease involving the bile ducts cavities formerly spoken of as cysts may occur. (7) Primary dermoid cysts do not occur in the liver; but from rupture of an ovarian der- moid, implantation on the surface of the liver has been known to occur (Hulke). Midtilocular Cystic Disease.—In this disease the liver shows multitudes of cysts, and thus differs from the serous cysts which are few in number or even solitary. It is usually met with late in life ; in 26 cases collected by Still, 17 were over fifty years of age, 4 over seventy, while the youngest adult was thirty-nine. A very few cases (3 or 4) have been met with in infants or still-born children who may be the subject of numerous malformations. It occurs more often in women than in men, according to Still in the proportion of 3 to 1 j of 28 cases 21 were in females. Cystic disease of the liver is always accom- panied by a similar and nearly always more advanced change in the kidneys. Cystic kid- neys, however, are often met with without any manifest cystic change in the liver. Pathogeny.—The mechanism by which cystic disease of the liver is brought about has given rise to a good deal of discussion. Space does not admit of a resume of the subject, but the following views may be mentioned :— (1) That it is an irritative or inflammatory pro- cess leading to pericholangitic fibrosis, and to dila- tation and proliferation of the ducts themselves. (2) That there is a diffuse new formation—a fibro-adenoma of the ducts. (3) That vacuolation of the liver-cells occurs and, by fusion, forms cysts. (4) That the condition is a malformation (Still). This view is analogous to Shattock's theory that congenital cystic disease of the kidneys is due to persistence and cystic dilata- tion of the mesonephrosis, the real kidney substance being included in and compressed by the foetal persistence. Still believes that the cysts are derived from columns of hypoblast cells forming part of the original duodenal diverticulum, and not from the bile ducts. Personally, I regard cystic disease as due to an irritative or inflammatory process around the bile ducts which gives rise to their dilatation. Morbid Anatomy.—The liver may be greatly enlarged, though this is by no means always the case. The organ is riddled with cysts of various sizes up to that of a hen's egg; the larger ones are probably due to union of previously separate ones. The contents of the cysts may be clear or blood-stained, but do not contain bile pigment. The larger bile ducts and the gall-bladder are normal. In infants the cysts may be so small as to be overlooked unless a microscopic examination is made; the liver in these instances is not enlarged, but the fibrous tissue of the portal spaces is manifestly in- creased. Microscopically the cystic spaces are lined by columnar or cubical epithelium, with an under- lying layer of well-formed fibrous tissue. In children, branching tubes surrounded by fibrous tissue can be well seen spreading out from the portal spaces; in adults the fibrous tissue is old. The liver-cells may show an appearance suggesting vacuolation. Clinically, cystic disease of the liver is usu- ally overshadowed by the accompanying renal disease, and only discovered at the autopsy. The symptoms are those of chronic renal disease and arteriosclerosis. In some instances the liver may be recognised as enlarged, and has even simulated an ovarian cyst. If enlargement of the liver be found in a case where the kidneys are palpable as cystic tumours, cystic disease is highly probable. The renal enlargement is very likely to be regarded as hydronephrosis. The treatment and prognosis are those of the renal disease. Infective Granulomata Tubercle ...... 470 Syphilis 472 Acquired ...... 472 Hereditary . . ■ . .475 Tardive ...... 476 Parasyphilitic Multilobular Cirrhosis 477 Lymphadenoma . . . . .477 Actinomycosis . . . . .477 Hepatic Tuberculosis Introduction . . . . . .470 Miliary Tuberculosis . . .4/0 Local Tuberculosis .... 470 (a) Involving the bile ducts. Tu- berculous Cavities or Tuber- culosis Cholangitis. . .471 (6) Ifot involving the ducts. "Soli- tary Tubercle" ■ ■ .471