LARYNX, CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 342 Laryngeal Phthisis—continued Diagnosis . . . . .343 Prognosis . . . . .343 Treatment ..... 343 Lupus op the Larynx . . . .345 Syphilis of the Larynx— Clinical Features . . . 345 Treatment . . . . .346 Scleroma ...... 346 Leprosy ....... 347 Laryngeal Phthisis Laryngeal phthisis is commonly secondary to a similar condition of the lungs. It is still an open question how the infection of the windpipe occurs. According to some authorities it results from bacilli either entering the glands by way of the ducts or making their way through injured epithelium, while others main- tain that these organisms may pass through healthy cells without leaving any trace of their passage. A third group of observers affirm that infection of the larynx usually results from the circulation, either vascular or lymphatic. While in most cases laryngeal phthisis is associated with and dependent upon pulmonary disease, various authors (Demme, E. Frankel, and others) have published undoubtedly authen- tic instances of primary tuberculosis of the larynx. The first morbid appearances result from tubercular infiltration, which involves both the mucous and the submucous layers, while the glands are usually also affected. Very rarely, as described by Schech and Heinze, tubercular deposits may occur in the laryngeal muscles. In most if not all cases infiltration is followed sooner or later by ulceration. The resulting ulcers may be superficial or deep, and in the former case are often multiple. In certain instances laryngeal tuberculosis shows itself by the presence of tumours. Sometimes a cir- cumscribed sessile neoplasm occurs in the inter- arytenoid space. Such growths are composed, according to Gouguenheim and Glover, of epithelium and connective tissue, with perhaps a layer of tubercular granulations in process of evolution; but these authors failed to de- tect bacilli. Again, more definitely tubercular growths may be present. These may be single or multiple, are usually pale in colour, and vary in size from a pea to a hazel-nut. Finally, Avellis has shown that a proportion of those growths which have been hitherto regarded as papillomata and fibromata are in reality tuberculous. Like all laryngeal aftections, phthisis is more common in males than in females, while the period of life which statistics have shown to be most liable to attack is between the ages of twenty and forty. So far I have referred merely to the lesions which occur after infection has taken place, but there can be no doubt that there are certain changes in the larynx which, when they exist, ought to warn the practitioner to make a careful examination of the lungs. It is no uncommon thing to find at an extremely early stage of pulmonary phthisis various signs and symptoms which lead the patient to consult a throat specialist rather than a physician. Thus the larynx may be the seat of abnormal sen- sations, and examination will then often reveal very marked anaemia of the mucosa, which may perhaps flush during examination. Again, there may be paresis of adduction, often also associ- ated with pallor. These conditions cannot as yet be said to have any recognised pathology. On the borderland between these on the one hand, and conditions obviously due to infection on the other, we must consider the very ob- stinate laryngeal catarrh which is sometimes a precursor of tubercular infection of the part —if, indeed, it be not in certain cases an early manifestation of such infection. iiymptoms.—In considering the semeiology of laryngeal phthisis it has seemed to me better to give the symptoms of each clinical form which the practitioner is likely to meet with, as they vary according to the seat of the infiltration or ulceration. Perhaps, on the whole, interference with the voice is the commonest symptom. This varies in degree from slight hoarseness to complete aphonia. In certain cases, too, vocal effort is accompanied by pain. Various localisations of laryngeal phthisis may produce the above symptoms. As before said, there is a form of laryngeal catarrh which occurs in phthisical persons, and which may eventually be followed by infiltra- tion and breaking down of tissue. In many instances there are no objective points by which it can be distinguished from the non-tubercular form. In other cases suspicion may be aroused by a tendency to a localisation; thus the occurrence of redness confined to one vocal cord is suspicious. Again, ordinary catarrh is not usually accompanied by any marked thickening, which if present in a phthisical subject will usually be found to be tubercular. At a later stage of the disease one or both cords may become distinctly infiltrated. The infiltration is usually of a red colour, and may result in uniform enlargement; on the other hand, it may be more or less circumscribed. Occasion- ally infiltration may occur at the anterior commissure or just below it, but this is a some- what rare appearance. Much more common is a distinct flat tumour occupying the inter-ary- tenoid region. This is sessile, usually of a red colour, and may have a relatively well-defined regular surface, or may be uneven and papillary. These inter-arytenoid tumours may precede all other manifestations of phthisis, and much imjjortance was attached to them by Stoerk,