101 KIDNEY tion recur. Septicaemia or pysemia supervene in some cases where the drainage is incomplete. 2. Spontaneous fistwlcB are not often met with, since early operation has been recognised as the best treatment for kidney calculus. The rupture of a calculous, less frequently of a tuberculous pyonephrosis or a perirenal abscess, most often occurs in the loin, and usually at the triangle of Petit (Albarran). The opening may, however, be in the loin or buttock, or some part of the abdominal wall distant from the seat of the disease. The opening is commonly single, and although secondary openings do occur, they are not so often observed as in urinary fistute originating in the lower urinary tract (GUterbock). Some- times the orifice is situated in an intercostal space. In these cases, fortunately, the pleural sac is pushed up and is not involved (Morris). Rupture into abdominal viscera (stomach, intestines, etc.), and even a fistula communi- cating with the lung may be formed. Diagnosis.—Spontaneous fistula opening at some distant point may cause difficulty, but the discharge of urine and the history of urinary disease and abnormality in the urine will betray its origin. Treatment. — Fistulse following operation should be kept clean, and the surrounding skin protected by an ointment. If phosphatic encrustation of the track has taken place, it should be syringed with an acid solution (weak hydrochloric acid). When the discharge is slight a sufficient pad should be worn to absorb it, even a copious discharge of urine in the loin may be compatible with comfort if a receptacle be worn (Morris). Exuberant granulations should be touched with silver nitrate, and a small superficial sinus may sometimes close after a few applications of the hot wire; but there are some conditions which demand operative interference. These consist in:— (1) Recurring attacks of retention of the discharge, complete or incomplete. (2) The inconvenience of the discharge be- coming intolerable. (3) Nephrotomy for tubercular or calculous pyonephrosis is a temporary measure to tide the patient over a crisis; when the health has improved sufficiently nephrectomy will probably be required to avoid a permanent fistula and the effects of prolonged suppuration. Pyelitis The relation between the kidney and its pelvis is so intimate that inflammation of the latter seldom occurs without the kidney participating to some extent in the process. It is practical, however, to draw a distinction between pyelitis and pyelonephritis, for in the latter the disease has invaded the kidney structure and the prognosis is grave. Etiology.— Any period of life may be affected, but pyelitis is most frequent during middle life and in males, for the causes which produce it come into operation at that time and in men. There are three classes :—■ (1) Those arising from local conditions, of which stone in the pelvis is the most important (pyelitis calculosa). (2) Those following disease of the lower urinary organs. These, which form the largest class of pyelitis, may be briefly enumerated :— Cystitis with decomposition of the urine and ascending inflammation of the ureter and pelvis, in which the process travels from the bladder to the renal pelvis or kidney by direct con- tinuity along the mucous membrane, or by way of the lymphatic vessels (Lindsay Steven). Gonorrhceal cystitis accounts for 18 per cent of cases of pyelitis (Finger), but vesical calculus, bladder growths, etc., are predisposing causes, and septic catheterisation a frequent exciting cause. Atony of the bladder from obstruction or paralysis and decomposition of retained urine is a frequent cause, and in fact 74 per cent of those who die with hypertrophy of the prostate suffer from pyelitis, and in fatal cases of urethral stricture, inflammation of the renal pelvis is found in 41 per cent (Fiirbringer). Atony of the bladder with cystitis, in spinal or cerebral disease, form a small class. Lastly, operations in the neighbourhood of the bladder by spread of inflammation along the lu-eter induce pyelitis. (3) Infection by way of the blood stream. Pyelitis sometimes occurs during the course of one of the acute infective diseases, such as scarlatina, diphtheria, dysentery, cholera, typhus, smallpox, or puerperal fever. Again, poisons introduced into the body— such as cantharides, turpentine, balsams, etc.— may give rise to pyelitis during their excretion. Tubercular pyelitis requires separate con- sideration (vide Renal Tubercle). Pathology.—Pyelitis is more frequently uni- lateral than bilateral. This applies especially to calculous pyelitis: in the ascending form it is often bilateral, but one side is usually affected before the other (Fenwick) and to a much greater extent than the other (Senator). The acuteness of the process varies with the cause. Slight forms are catarrhal, with hypersemia and thickening of the mucous membrane and desquamation of the epithelium, and are found especially in early calculus. Severe infective forms may be attended with formation of a membrane (croupous and diphtheritic), while the chronic forms due to long presence of calculi, etc., show a thickened, discoloured, grayish mucous membrane and an infiltrated wall. Small cysts may form with colloid contents (pyelitis cystica, Litten, v. Kalden), or small grayish lymph follicles (pyelitis