LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 331 by a visit to such spas as Ems, Mont Dore, Eaux Bonnes, Marlioz, Challes, Cauterets, etc. Any remaining paresis of the muscles may be met with doses of strychnine or the use of electricity. Elderly patients who are subject to winter attacks of chronic laryngitis should be recom- mended a change to a warmer climate. Hypertrophic Laryngitis General Hypertrophic Laryngitis Definition.—A form of chronic laryngitis in which the lining membrane of the larynx is more or less uniformly thickened. Etiology.—A reference to the article on Chronic Laryngitis will show that when long continued there is a tendency to overgrowth of the mucous membrane, more marked in certain regions than in others. All the causes which have been detailed as productive of chronic catarrh of the larynx, are also operative in pro- ducing chronic general hypertrophic laryngitis. The latter form is, however, more apt to be met with when the chronic condition has been neglected for some time, and the use of the voice has been insisted on, or the external causes have not been removed. Hence the condition is very frequent in such occupations as that of a street hawker, or those who are exposed to the irritation of dusty occupations. It is particularly apt to occur in patients who, in addition to the usual causes, indulge freely in alcohol. It is frequently met with in syphilitic subjects, in whom the process does not show any distinct specific character, and may, in fact, manifest great resistance to the influence of syphilitic treatment. This has been termed para-syphilitic ^ laryngitis. Symptoms.—For a description of the symptoms the reader is referred to the section on Chronic Laryngitis (p. 327). In the chronic hyper- trophic variety the change of voice is more marked; there is less tendency to cough ; and, although subject to acute or subacute exacer- bations, the patient suffers less in using his chronically husky and toneless voice. Examination. — In addition to the general condition described under the heading of Chronic Laryngitis {q.v.), the laryngoscope reveals the thickening which has occurred in the mucous lining of the larynx. This is found most commonly in the inter-arytenoid space, where the hypertrophied mucous membrane may be heaped up into one central mass, though through the frequent approximation of the vocal processes in phonation it has more commonly been folded and so divided into three or more heaps. These are symmetrical, neither inflamed nor ulcerated, and generally of the same colour as that of the mucous membrane usually found in the inter- arytenoid space. The surface may be rough, ^ Massei, Annales des mal. de Voreille, vi., No. 2, 1899. but is uniform, and in many cases is coated with sticky mucus. On phonation this over- growth is seen to be compressed between the posterior ends of the vocal cords, and by interfering with their approximation causes huskiness. In other instances, or in addition to the above, the hypertrophy is found on the ven- tricular bands, which may be so much thickened as to more or less completely conceal the true cords. This is particularly apparent on phona- tion, and, indeed, much of this hypertrophy is possibly muscular and due to the ventricular bands having been called into action to support or replace the inflamed or fatigued true cords. The arytenoid region and the aryepiglottic folds may also be chronically thickened. Hyper- trophy of normal tissue is rarely foiind on the epiglottis. Prognosis.—Very slight improvement is to be expected without treatment. Strict rest of the voice is seldom secured, and only too often a return to voice use, or exposure to the primary irritating causes, will induce a recrudescence of the aff"ection. That form which has been re- ferred to as para-syphilitic laryngitis gives rise to one of the most inveterate forms of hoarse- ness (vide Syphilitic Laryngitis). Considerable improvement can be secured when due to other causes, provided the patient will carry out the somewhat tedious treatment—a treatment which may also entail considerable expense from the enforced rest to the voice. Treatment.—Reference should be made to the section on the treatment of Chronic Laryn- gitis (p. 329). In the hypertrophic form the treatment has to be more persevering and more thorough; it is in this variety that application of caustics on the laryngeal brush find their chief indication. In a few cases it may even be necessary to remove portions of the hypertrophy when it is situated in the inter-arytenoid space. In other regions of the larynx surgical inter- ference is seldom called for. For patients who can aff"ord it, the method of treatment carried out at Ems, Mont Dore, Marlioz, and similar health resorts is particularly useful in this form of laryngitis. Membranous Laryngitis, Non-diphtheritic Synonym : Fibrinous Larynfjitis. Definition.—An inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx, accompanied by the formation of a membrane, and not caused by the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus. It is associated with the presence of various other micro-organisms. It may be acute or subacute. Etiology.—-The occurrence of a false mem- brane in the larynx is not frequently observed; and when the cases in which it is of diphtheritic origin are excluded, it may be said to be a very rare affection. It may be due to the application of strong