IRIS AND CILIARY BODY 38 the ciliary body, but in the iris their presence is doubtful. The lymphatics of the Iris and Ciliary Body.— There are no distinct lymphatic vessels in the iris, but the sheaths of the blood-vessels contain lymphatic sinuses, and the whole stroma is riddled with lymph spaces. Whether these spaces are in direct communication with the anterior chamber through the crypts described above is not definitely known ; they, however, open into the spaces between the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum, and so reach the canal of Schlemm. Between the ciliary muscle and the sclerotic coat is a lymph space continuous with that between the lamina suprachoroidea and the lamina fusca, and limited anteriorly by the attachment of the ciliary muscle. It is a common seat of inflammatory exudation or hfemorrhage in cyclitic trouble. Physiology op the Iris and Ciliary Body.— Under this heading the following important subjects are included—the action of light and certain poisons on the pupil ; associated move- ments ; the mechanism of accommodation ; and the function of the ciliary processes. Movements of the Pupil.—The iris, with its central aperture, the pupil, serves as a diaphragm to shut off marginal rays ; spherical aberration is thus prevented. It also regulates the amount of light entering the eye. Contraction of the pupil to light is brought about by the action of the sphincter pupillfe, which is governed by a reflex mechanism, of which the optic nerve is the afferent path, and the oculo-motor nerve the efferent path, the centre being situated in the floor of the aque- duct of Sylvius. The method of examining the pupillary light reflexes is as follows:—Let the patient be placed in a good bright light, day- light by preference, then cover both eyes with the hand ; upon exposing one eye—for example, the right-—to the light, its pupil contracts {direct light refle.r), and the left pupil also contracts {indirect or consensual light reflex), though to a less extent, being indirectly stimu- lated through the light entering the right eye ; upon exposing the left eye, a further slight contraction occurs in the right eye (consensual reflex) in conjunction with the direct reflex in the left. Consensual light reflex cannot be obtained in those animals whose optic nerves decussate completely. If, after shading the eyes for a few minutes, they are suddenly exposed to a bright light, a slight and temporary rhythmical contraction and dilatation of the pupils ensue —hippus; this is very evident in neurotic persons. Other causes of contraction of the pupil are : (1) stimulation of the optic nerve by agents other than light, as electricity ; (2) accommoda- tion of the eye for near objects; (3) tlie early stages of poisoning by chloroform, alcohol, etc.. and nearly all stages of poisoning by morphia, eserine, and some other drugs ; (4) deep sleep ; and (5) the local application of eserine and other myotics. Dilatation of the pupil is brought about by the dilator pupillse, which is governed by a reflex mechanism, just as is the constrictor pupillse. The dilator pupillfe, as to the exist- ence of which there has been much controversy, has been demonstrated both physiologically and anatomically. It is supplied by sympathetic fibres arising from the cilio-spinal centre in the upper dorsal region of the cord. This centre is subordinate to a higher reflex nerve-centre in the medulla. The fibres leave the cord by the lower cervical and upper dorsal anterior nerve-roots, and, passing into the last cervical and first thoracic ganglia, enter the sympathetic cord, pass upwards to the Gasserian ganglion, and through the nasal nerve enter by the long- root the lenticular ganglion, from which they proceed by the ciliary nerves to the iris. Dilatation of the pupil occurs: (1) when the stimulus of light is withdrawn from the retina ; (2) when the eye is adjusted for distant vision ; (3) during dyspnoea, powerful irritation of the sensory nerves, violent muscular eftbrts, in the later stages of chloroform poisoning, and in all stages of poisoning by atropine and certain other drugs; and (4) after the local action of atropine and other mydriatics. Besides the reflex mechanisms regulating the size of the pupil, a local mechanism is supposed to exist either in the iris itself or in the choroid, where ganglion cells are present. When eserine is applied to the eye, contraction of the pupil is caused whether the third nerve has been divided or not, and with a strong dose it cannot be overcome by stimulation of the sympathetic. Associated Movements.—Two movements are said to be associated when the special central nervous mechanism used in carrying out the one act is so connected with that employed in [ carrying out the other that when we set the \ one mechanism in action we unintentionally set [ the other in action also. Thus the movements of convergence, accommodation, and contraction of the pupil are produced together during near vision by simultaneous stimulation of all tlie fibres of the third nerve, and if one of these is in excess, as in convergent concomitant strabismus with hypermetropia, it may be merely necessary to correct the excessive accom- modation in order to cure the squint. The nucleus of the third nerve consists of definite component parts; the most anterior portion presides over accommodation ; below this is the centre for the action of tlic pupil ; farther down come the cells governing the levator palpebno and the internal rectus ; while most posteriorly the nucleus supplies fibres to the rectus superior, obliquus inferior, and rectus inferior.