59 JAUNDICE thus when, as very rarely happens, jaundice is met with in the course of typhoid fever, cholan- gitis or cholelithiasis should be thought of. In puerperal eclampsia, jaundice is of extremely bad omen ; death follows in a few hours or days. The onset of jaundice after phosphorus poison- ing is a sign that the liver is affected, and must be regarded as of the most grave significance, since few cases recover when this stage is reached. In like manner the occurrence of jaundice in malaria is of very serious import, as pointing to a severe hsemic infection, such as occurs in hsemoglobinuria or '' blackwater " fever. The ultimate prognosis of any case of jaundice is, of course, dependent on the cause and not on the degree of the jaundice; thus the slight icteric tint seen in toxajmic jaundice due to pyaemia, and the black jaundice of complete obstruction due to malignant disease, do not differ very much with regard to their prospect. The prognosis of chronic jaundice is bad: it is worst in cases of complete obstruction by malignant disease, for in addition to the fatal nature of the growth, biliary toxaemia or cholsemia is likely to occur; it is rather better in hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, for although complete recovery is very improbable life may yet be prolonged for a very considerable time. In chronic jaundice due to gall-stones the prognosis is fair, because operative measures can be undertaken with a fair prospect of success. When chronic jaundice is accompanied by xanthelasma or by the bulbous or " Hippocratic fingers" it may be assumed that the cause of the jaundice is not malignant disease, inasmuch as this would have killed the patient before these changes could have had sufficient time to develop. In chronic jaundice much depends on the functional activity of the kidneys being well maintained ; if the amount of urine falls and waste products are less freely excreted, biliary toxaemia is likely to result. The presence of albuminuria points to the kidneys being damaged by the toxEemia accompanying the jaundice, and is therefore an index of a severe condition. The detection of leucin and tyrosin in the urine of a case of jaundice makes the prognosis very grave. When jaundice is accompanied by hepatic insufficiency, so that poisons which should have been destroyed by the liver escape into the general circulation, and give rise to a general toxaemia as shown by nervous symptoms such as delirium, drowsiness, and coma, and by haemorrhages, the prognosis is very grave in- deed, since life cannot be long maintained after the development of cholaemia. The occurrence, therefore, of nervous symptoms in cases of jaundice should always arouse anxiety. There are cases at first quite indistinguishable from simple catarrhal jaundice in which nervous symptoms somewhat rapidly develop, and the case then runs the course of acute 3'ellow atrophy of the liver. Again, in other instances the jaundice associated with malignant disease of the liver may begin exactly like catarrhal jaundice. Caution is therefore necessary in forming a prognosis in the early stages of what appears to be simple catarrhal jaundice, especially in patients past middle life. Treatment. — The radical and most satis- factory plan is, of course, the removal or cure of the cause of the jaimdice ; for this an accurate diagnosis of each case is essential. The results of operations for the removal of gall-stones show how successful this plan may be. Even in cases of inoperative malignant disease, such as carcinoma of the head of the pancreas, surgical measures may still give some relief by removing the extreme jaundice. Cholecystenterostomy, or uniting the gall- bladder to the small intestine, has been per- formed, and by allowing the bile to enter the intestine has removed the jaundice, prevented the occurrence of biliary toxaemia or cholaemia, and greatly improved the patient's condition for a time. The operation must be performed early ; if black jaundice has already developed, the patient is in a very unfavourable state for this procedure. The Palliative Treatment of Jaundice.— Symptoms should be treated as they arise: constipation should be met by five grains of blue pill or calomel, followed by a saline ; want of appetite by dilute acids and nux vomica; nausea and vomiting, if present, by bismuth, dilute hydrocyanic acid, and morphia. If there is much flatulence, creasote, salicylate of bis- muth, liquor perchloridi hj^drargyri, and salol may be employed as intestinal antiseptics. Capsules of ox bile, or pills coated with keratin so as to prevent the bile being liberated in the stomach, may be given before food three times daily in order to replace the absent bile in the intestine. For the pruritus, alkaline baths or sponging with carbolic lotion 1 in 40 should be tried. Pilocarpine ^-^ of a grain injected hypodermi- cally often gives good results. For itching of the skin and haemorrhages the administration of chloride of calcium in 1-5 or 20 grain doses may be tried three times a day for two or three days, but not longer at a stretch, as its effect in promoting coagulation of the blood is lost after a comparatively short time. Before an operation such as a cholecystotomy on a jaundiced patient, it is well to give chloride of calcium so as to diminish the risk of bleeding from the jaundiced tissues. The patient should be encouraged to take plenty of water so as to avoid constipation, and in catarrh or cholangitis to wash out the ducts ; in these cases salicylate of soda may also be