LABOUR, PHYSIOLOGY OF 161 bladder, urethra, and retropubic fat, is loosely attached to the bony canal, and is freely movable. The latter consists of the posterior vaginal wall and structures posterior to it, is firmly attached and less mobile—features of the greatest value in considering the method by which this seem- ingly impenetrable barrier to the passage of the child is overcome during labour. Viewed as a whole the parturient passage may be considered as a bony canal merely lined by soft structures in its upper half, but from the thickness and consistency of these soft structures in its lower half materially modified by them as regards direction. As has already been stated, the plane of the pelvic brim and direction of the vagina respectively form an angle of 60° with the horizon, and are thus parallel; the axis of the brim and direction of the vaginal canal which forms the exit through the outlet must, therefore, be at right angles. Before expulsion of the uterine contents can be accom- plished, therefore, a curved path must be traversed equivalent to half a circle. This curvature of the pelvic canal is described as the "curve of Carus," or axis of the pelvic canal. For clinical purposes the axis of the inlet may be roughly considered as the direction of a line drawn from the umbilicus to the tip of the coccyx. Third Factor.—The Passengers.—These are represented by the foetus, placenta, and mem- branes, and liquor amnii. The Passenger or Ovum.— For descriptive purposes the ovum may be divided during labour into three parts : (1) The free or present- ing part, which can be felt by the examining finger. (2) The obstructed part, which is in contact with the girdle of resistance, that is to say, the portion which is in contact with the genital canal; in the first stage the girdle of contact is formed by the cervix, and in the second stage by the vagina which lines the bony pelvis. (3) The part which is directly acted upon by the powers, and lies above the girdle of resistance. As a whole the ovum when entire is of an ovoid shape, and under normal circum- stances the lower end of the ovoid is the smaller ; by this means it is accommodated to the normal ovoid contour of the uterine cavity. After rupture of the membranes the foetus alone is to be considered; this also, from the marked flexion of its parts upon one another, is of an ovoid shape, the smaller end of the ovoid being the cephalic extremity. This accounts for the frequency of cephalic presentations, 96 per cent; the foetal ovoid conforming with the shape of the uterine cavity (Fig. 2). Though forming the smaller end of the foetal ovoid, the foetal head in itself forms the largest and least com- pressible portion of the uterine contents, and, as has already been stated, is the portion of the foetus which offers the greatest difficulty to expulsion. This is not merely from the size of VOL. V its diameters, but also from the fact that it is less compressible. Its incompressibility, how- ever, is not absolute ; the bones are incompletely ossified, and offer between them membranous interspaces, so-called sutures, which allow of a considerable amount of OA'erriding or moulding as it is called. The bones of the cranial vault — occipital, frontal, and parietal—are separated from one another by one longitudinal and two transverse sutures, respectively named sagittal, lambdoidal, and coronal. Where the sutures cross each other, membranous interspaces of considerable dimensions are present, and are called fonta- nelles ; thus where the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures meet is the posterior fontanelle, and where the sagittal intersects the coronal the anterior fontanelle or bregma (Fig. 10). The posterior fontanelle is triangular in shape, and has three sutures running from it. The II. Fig. 10.—Diagrams of foetal head, showing sutures and dia- meters. B, Anterior fontanelles: I. longitudinal and ver- tical sutures ; II. transverse sutures. anterior fontanelle is larger than the posterior, lozenge-shaped, and has four sutures entering into its formation. The space between the anterior and posterior fontanelles, and bounded laterally by the parietal eminences, is known as the vertex. The regions of the head are the occiput, vertex, brow or sinciput, and face. Diameters.—For practical purposes a series of measurements of the foetal head, known as diameters, are taken; these may be tabulated as longitudinal, transverse, and vertical. A. Longitvdiiml.—Occipito-mental, from the chin to the occipital protuberance, 5 inches. Occipito-frontal, from the glabella or root of the nose to the occipital protuberance, 4i inches. Suboccipito-bregmatic, from the anterior angle of the anterior fontanelle to the junction of the 11