LIVIDITY 524 of the skin of a corpse, due to gravitation of the blood to the most dependent parts. See Medicine, Forensic {Signs of Death, Post-mortem Lividity); Post-mortem Methods {External Examination, Post-mortem Lividity). "Living^ Skeletons." — The name given to individuals of an extreme degree of thinness, who are not unfrequently exhibited at shows; thus, Claude Ambroise Seurat was shown in London in 1826 as the "Anatomie Vivante" or "Living Skeleton," and Calvin Edson, a native of the United States, was ex- hibited in 1830. There is marked atrophy of the subcutaneous fat and, to some extent, also of the muscular system. Lixiviation. — The formation of a lye (Lat. lixivia), a lye being a solution formed by the extraction with water of the ashes of burnt substances ; it is a process employed in phar- macy. Thus, in the making of sodium carbon- ate, sodium sulphate is roasted with limestone and coal, and a mass called black ash, consisting of sodium carbonate and calcium sulphide, results; from this mass the carbonate is ob- tained by washing or lixiviation, the sulphide of calcium being left behind. Lla.nclrindod. See Balneology {Great Britain); Mineral Waters {Muriated Sidphated Waters). Lla,ncl ud no. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English, Wales). Llang^am march. See Balneology {Great Britain). Llanwrtyd. See Balneology {Great Britain) ; Mineral Waters {Mmiated Saline). Lobai*.—Belonging or referring to a lobe, as distinguished from lobular, which means referring to a lobule, e.g. lobar pneumonia, in which the inflammatory process involves a lobe or even a whole lung, croupous or fibrinous pneumonia. Lobe or Lob us.—A segment of an organ, usually rounded in shape, and separated from neighbouring parts by grooves or fissures, e.g. the lobes of the brain, of the liver, of the lung, of the prostate, and of the thyroid gland. Lobelia.—Lobelia is composed of the dried flowering herb. Lobelia injlata, the constituents of which are the alkaloid, lobeline or lobelina, lobelic acid, and injlatine; the official prepara- tion is the ethereal tincture {Tinctura Lobeliae JEtherea), the dose of which is 5 to 15 m.; and the drug is now used chiefly for asthma, for it has a depressing effect on the heart which limits its range of applicability. Lobeline.—The volatile, fluid alkaloid of Lobelia injlata {q.v.), with an undetermined chemical constitution. See Alkaloids. Lobengulism.—A morbid condition in which there is loss of sexual power, associated with a marked deposition of subcutaneous fat; it may affect both sexes, causing enlargement of the mammary glands in men and a form of spurious hermaphroditism, and cessation of the menstruation in women ; lipomatosis universalis asexualis. LobStein'S Cancer.—Retroperitoneal sarcoma; it is with difficulty differentiated from tumour of the kidney. Lobstein's Disease. —A form of fragilitas ossium or osteopsathyrosis. See Fra- gilitas Ossium. Lobster-claw Deformity.—A de- fect of the digits in which two only are left {bidactyly), usually the thumb or great toe and the little finger or little toe, giving the appear- ance of two claws. Lobular.—Relating to a lobule, e.g. lobular pneumonia or bronchopneumonia as distinguished from lobar pneumonia or croupous pneumonia. Lobule or LobuluS.—A segment or subdivision of a lobe. Local Anassthesia.—The production of anaesthesia in a limited or localised part of the body, without the loss of general conscious- ness, ^ee Anaesthetics {Local Ancesthesia). Localisation.—The process by which a particular physiological or pathological action is found to originate or be situated in any par- ticular part, especially of the nervous system. See Brain, Physiology of {Functions of the Cerebral Cortex) ; Physiology, Nervous System {Localisation of Enactions). Locarno. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Ltalian Lakes). Lochia.—The discharges from the genital tract (from uterus to vulva) which follow the birth of the child and last about two weeks (Gr. \oxevo), I bring to the birth); during the first few days they are named lochia rubra, thereafter lochia serosa, and finally lochia alba, according to the colour changes which take place in them. See Puerperium, Physiology of {Lochia); Puerperium, Pathology of {Puer- peral Infection, Symptomatology). LochiO- or LochO-. — In compound words lochio- or locho- means relating to the lochia, e.g. lochiometra, retention of the lochial discharges in the uterus ; lochiopyra, puerperal fever; lochiorrhagia, an excessive flow of the lochia; lochometritis, puerperal metritis; and lochoperitonitis, puerperal peritonitis.