IRIS AND CILIARY BODY 45 (Fig. 1). In doing this the instrument is first passed in obliquely, and in such a direction that if continued it would cause a wound of the iris and lens. As soon as its point is seen through the cornea the handle is slightly depressed to bring the blade into a plane anterior and parallel to that of the iris. The keratome is now steadily withdrawn, its apex being kept well away from the plane of the iris and lens. Fig. 1.—The incision with keratome. The closed iris forceps are now passed into the anterior chamber (Fig. 2), the iris seized near its pupillary edge, dragged just outside the wound, and the projecting portion cut with one snip of the scissors ; if necessary, an assistant with fixation forceps slightly rotates the globe downwards without undue pressure or traction. Should, however, a large iridectomy be indicated, the iris is dragged just outside one angle of the Fig. 2.—The iridectomy. wound, and a snip made through its outer part; the portion held in the forceps is then drawn gently across to the other angle, and the excision completed as near to its periphery as possible. Finally, the curette should be passed into the edges of the wound, to liberate any portion of the iris that is entangled there, and the edges of the wound are brought into exact apposition. The speculum is removed, the eyelids gently closed, and a small pad of aseptic gamgee tissue applied by adhesive plaster. When the anterior chamber is very shallow the danger of wounding the lens is lessened by the use of a Graefe's knife. Some surgeons always make use of this knife in performing iridectomy. When the operation is required for optical purposes only, the position of the new pupil necessarily depends upon that of the lesion of the lens or cornea. The best position when possible is downwards and slightly inwards, or straight downwards. Only so much of the iris as is necessary for distinct vision should be removed (Fig. 3). Instead of the large bent keratome a broad bent needle is employed. The position of the incision must depend upon the situation in which the new pupil is required. Fig. 3.—Optical iridectomy. When this is only slightly excentric it can be made just within the margin of the cornea. When the pupil is required to be opposite the corneal margin the incision must be made in the sclerotic, about 1 mm. beyond the sclero-corneal junction. The width of the incision in either case should be at least 3 mm. Instead of iris forceps a Tyrrel's hook may be used. This is introduced on the flat as far as the centre of the pupil, half rotated downwards, so as to catch the pupillary edge of the iris, then once more turned on the flat, and withdrawn, by which means the iris is extracted. Accidents and ComjMcations of Iridectomy.— (I) The lens may be wounded by the keratome. (2) The blade of the keratome may get between the corneal layers instead of passing directly into the anterior chamber. This accident arises from it being held too obliquely at the commencement of the incision. As soon as this is discovered the instrument should be immediately withdrawn, and another position selected for a fresh incision. If, however, the blade has finally entered the anterior chamber, so as to cause escape of the aqueous, the eye had better be closed at once, and the operation postponed for twenty-four hours, that a re- secretion of the aqueous may take place. Without this precaution the iris and lens are