12 INVALID FEEDING ments. There is no difficulty in doing this if it is always remembered that if any peptonised fluid is used it must be boiled in order that the action of the ferment may be arrested. For soups, use peptonised gruel (p. 11) instead of water. For the making of blanc- manges (p. 16), peptonised milk is added to the cream. For jellies, mix the liquor pan- creaticus with gelatine, the flavouring matter to be employed in the proportion of 2 tea-spoon- fuls to the pint; allow it to stand for 11 hours in a warm place, and then check the further action by boiling. (For jellies, see p. 16.) Peptonised Oysters Take half a dozen large oysters with their juice and half a pint of water. Heat in a saucepan imtil they have boiled briskly for a few minutes. Pour off' the broth and set aside. Mince the oysters finely, and reduce them to a paste with a potato masher in a wooden bowl. Now put the oysters in a glass jar with the broth that has been set aside, and add— Liq. pancreaticus, 2 tea-spoonfuls. Soda bicarb., 15 grains. Let the jar stand in hot water, or a warm place where the temperature is not above 115°, for 1| hours. Then pour into a saucepan and add half a pint of milk. Heat over the fire slowly to boiling-point. Flavour with salt and pepper or condiments to taste, and serve hot. There will be found a few very small pieces of the oysters undigested, and these may be strained out or rejected in eating the soup, but will not be imacceptable to the stomach, except in very rare cases. The milk will be sufficiently digested during the few minutes which will elapse before the mixture boils, if heated gradually. Be sure to boil the peptonised oysters to finish the process. Food in Pyrexial States When fever is present, two important indi- cations are the supply of fluid in the form of pleasant beverages to overcome the dry and parched sensations in throat and fauces brought on by the high temperature; and, secondly, the administration of a liberal supply of carbo- hydrates, which is necessary to meet the increased oxidation in the tissues resulting from the high temperature. With suitable feeding the wasting is less, and the patient does not become so reduced, and, consequently, the convalescence is more rapid. Beverages. — For the thirst the following recipes may be given for refreshing drinks, but they all have a very low nutritive value. If made with barley (p. 6) or rice water, instead of plain water, the value is slightly increased. Again, the addition of one tea-spoonful of milk sugar or lactose to the pint increases the value considerably without affecting the flavour. Rice Water.—Take 2 ounces of rice into an enamelled savicepan with 3 pints of water, and boil for 1\ hours. Stir it frequently and skim carefully. Strain into a jug through a fine wire sieve, and rub through the glutinous part, but not the hard portion. Put in no flavouring unless ordered by the practitioner. Apple Water 1 lb. of apples. \ lb. brown sugar. 1 gallon boiling water. Cut vip the apples into quarters; take them and put into a jug with the brown sugar, and pour the boiling water over it. Let it stand imtil cold; pulp the apples and the fluid through the colander. Bottle for use; do not cork the bottle. Keep in a cool place. Aipple Toast a7id Water.—Toast a piece of bread slowly imtil it gets quite black. Placed in a jug of apple water for three-quarters of an hour, then strained, makes a very nice and refreshing drink. To make Apple Barley and Apple Rice Water. —Boil -|- lb. of rice or \ lb. of barley, blend with the apple water, and then strain it. In spring and summer rhubarb, green goose- berries, black and red currants, and raspberries, may all be made into nice cooling drinks if used in the same proportion. Imperial Drink \ oz. cream of tartar. Juice of 1 lemon. 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Place the ingredients in a jug, and pour over a quart of boiling water, and cover until cold. Lemonade (a) Juice of 1 lemon. 1 pint of water. 1 oz. of sugar. 1 egg. Dissolve the sugar in the water; add the juice of the lemon; beat up the white of egg, and add this. This makes a very palatable drink with slight nutritive value. (b) 4 lemons. 1 lb. of loaf sugar. 3 pints boiling water. Rub some sugar on the rinds of two of the lemons until it is yellow. Strain the juice of the four lemons; put the sugar and juice into a jug, and pour over the water. Cover it imtil it is cold.