13 INVALID FEEDING Orangeade 2 oranges. Juice of 1 lemon. 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. 1 pint boiling water. Wipe the oranges with a damp cloth, and peel the rind off one of them very thinly. Put this into a jug with sugar, and strain in the juice from the oranges and lemons. Pour on the freshly boiled water. Cover closely until cold, and then strain. Black Currant Drink 2 table-spoonfuls black-currant jam. 1 tea-spoonful arrowroot. Take the black-c\irrant jam and boil it in a quart of water. Cover it and stew gently for half an hour; then strain it, and set the liquor again on the fire. Mix the arrowroot in cold water ; pour over it the boiling liquor, and keep stirring. Then let it get quite cold. (This is a very pleasant drink, and specially nice for a rough throat.) Malt extracts (see p. 9), with effervescing water, are also excellent as beverages. They quench the thirst, and supply grape sugar (maltose), soluble dextrine, and a small quantity of soluble albuminoids. Meat Broths and Extracts of Teas.—Meat infusions of beef, mutton, veal, and chicken are now in considerable demand. These are to be regarded more in the nature of pleasant, palatable, and stimulating beverages than as foods. They may be taken hot, cold, or iced. To this class belong the large class of meat extracts now in the market—Bovril, Liebig, Vigoral, Vimbos, and mutton extracts, e.g. Hipi. Home-made Beef Teas}—In their preparation it is well to employ beef from the buttock, rump, or thick flank, in preference to shin of beef. In the process of cooking the tea must not be allowed to boil, otherwise the juices are not extracted owing to the insoluble albuminous coating formed on the surface of the meat by the boiling process. In every case care must be taken to ensure that all the fat is removed from the surface before serving. There are various ways in which the beef tea may be thickened, e.g. with egg, tapioca, bread crumbs, or baked flour, thus adding much to the nutritive value. The baked flour is prepared as follows:— Baked Flour.—Spread some white flour thinly on a dish, bake it in a moderate oven for about an hour until it is a delicate cream colour. Take it out and place on a sheet of kitchen paper; when cool roll it smooth with a rolling pin, pass it through a wire sieve, and then keep in a canister or bottle. This may be used for thickening meat teas and broths. ^ Should always be made from freshly killed meat. Puddings made with this form of flour are more digestible. In serving soup to an invalid do not fill the cup or basin too full. A thin slice of old bread, or a piece of freshly toasted bread, or an un- sweetened rusk should be served with the soup. The following recipes may be commended. A glance at the composition of each will convey some idea of their relative value as nutritive fluids ; some of them are mere stimulants. Very little vegetable flavouring is given in the accompanying recipes; but, if permissible, celery seed, or a muslin bag containing a variety of vegetables, may be cooked with the beef tea and afterwards removed. Beef Tea 1 lb. lean juicy beef. 1 pint cold water. 1 small tea-spoonful of salt. Method 1.—Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and then place on a board, and with a sharp knife shred down as finely as possible. Keep back any pieces of connective tissue and fat. Place in a basin with salt and water, stir it well up, and cover the basin with a plate, and if time permits let it stand for half an hour. Then pour the contents of the basin into a clean lined saucepan, place the pan over a slow fire, and whisk it well until it almost reaches boiling- point ; do not let it boil. Then draw the pan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and allow the beef tea to simmer as slowly as possible for about ten to fifteen minutes. Strain through a coarse strainer, pressing the meat as dry as possible with a wooden spoon. Remove all the fat before serving. In cases where it is desirable to obtain the maximum of extractives in the tea, i.e. to form a very stimulating beverage— Method 2.—Use the same proportions of meat and water, and prepare it in the same way as above, but afterwards place the meat in a beef- tea jar, and cook slowly in the oven for four hours. The jars are strong stone jars with a strong screw lid, and can be obtained from Dall and Company, Edinburgh. They are made in various sizes. Caution.—After making beef tea in this way the jar must not be opened until the contents are cold. If opened before it is cold, the steam rushes up and is very apt to scald the cook's face and arms. If preferred, chicken, mutton and veal, or veal tea can be made in a similar manner. In making chicken tea, the legs and dark parts of the fowl can be used for soup while the white portions can be served in some other way. The fillet of veal is the best portion to order. In the mutton and veal tea, equal parts of the two meats are used; this gives a very delicate flavour, and is much appreciated by many invalids.