329 LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS effort which is made in vocalisation, and this produces a sense of fatigue and soreness in the throat. There is not necessarily any cough, but constant " hemming" and hawking in the efforts to clear the larynx of the sticky mucus which hangs about the affected parts. Abund- ant expectoration generally indicates that the trachea and bronchi are affected with the same catarrhal process. Cases have occurred of profuse catarrh from the larynx, to which the term laryngorrhoea has been applied. The altei'ations in voice are more noticeable in women and in tenor voices, than with bari- tones or basses. That is to say, a condition of laryngeal catarrh which would cause a decided change in the speaking voice of women and tenors might hardly be noticeable in a bass, and would probably not prevent him from singing with his usual success, at least for a while. In a considerable number of cases the patient will also present the symptoms of concomitant nasal or pharyngeal catarrh. Examination.—The laryngoscope will reveal some variety in the condition according to the duration and severity of the case and the parts principally affected. In all cases there will be certain constant conditions observable. For instance, there will be an absence of acute inflammation, and the changes will generally be bilateral and more or less symmetrical. The mucous membrane has a congested ap- pearance, the colour varying according to the subject — being frequently darker and more purplish in basses and in the more chronic cases, while it is apt to be redder in female voices and in tenors. Pellets of mucus are frequently seen, generally hanging about the inter-ai-ytenoid space, the vocal processes, or the ventricular bands, and more rarely on the anterior two- thirds of the vocal cords. The cords themselves in many cases are only slightly affected, appear- ing only dull or a dirty grey in colour. At other times arborescent vessels are seen ramifying on them. (In the normal condition no blood- vessels are to be seen on the vocal cords in the same way, for instance, that they are met with on the epiglottis.) In the worst form the cords may assume a dull deep-red colour. Their surface is generally more rounded, and on phonation it is seen that their approximation is frequently incomplete, either from paresis of the internal tensors of the cords or from the mechanical obstruction presented by thickening in the iiiter-arytenoid space. Shallow abrasions of the epithelial surface are sometimes met with, especially towards the inter-arytenoid region. The ventricular bands share in the general congestion, and it is frequently seen on phonation that they are considerably thickened. This may be due to small-celled infiltration, or to muscular hyper- trophy from vicarious action of the false vocal cords—the pain or inefficacy of the true vocal cords being supplemented by forcible adduction of the ventricular bands. The aryepiglottic folds share in the process, and the epiglottis shows increased vascularity and sometimes thickening of the petiolus. Storck has described a fissure as particularly apt to occur amidst the folds of mucous membrane in the inter-arytenoid space when they are pressed together in phonation. Diagnosis. — The chronic natui-e of the affection, the absence of constitutional symp- toms, and the bilateral and generally sym- metrical nature of the affection are usually sufficient to remove any difficulty in the way of diagnosis. Particular care should be taken in excluding the possibility of early tubercle, as this disease is often preceded by a laryngitis of a very inveterate character. The presence of marked anaemia of the air-passages, or any marked constitutional changes, should lead to a careful examination of the temperature, chest, sputum, etc. Prognosis.—Once established, this affection shows little tendency to spontaneous resolution. In many instances the exigencies of their profession prevent patients from giving the necessary rest to their voice, while in others the drawbacks of their surroundings render a complete cure impossible. In some patients the defects in their upper air-passages may have been overlooked in youth, and so have left behind conditions which are irremediable. In others, again, faulty methods of singing or voice production have become too ingrained to be eradicated. There is no danger to life in the affection, but the promise of a spontaneous cure in a well-established case is too remote to be taken into consideration. On the other hand, appro- priate treatment will lead to recovery in a large number of cases, especially if the patient is willing and able to carry out advice. Treatment.—Success in the treatment of chronic laryngitis will principally depend on the successful detection of the chief etiological factors, and it is surprising how often these will be found outside the larynx itself. The removal of the primary causes is the important point; topical applications, although helpful, fill a secondary role. Thus attention to the digestive functions or the action of the kidneys, the regulation of uterine disturbances, the detection of gout and rheumatism, may in some cases be the chief indications for treat- ment. The customs of the patient as regards food, drink, clothing, sleep, exercise, tobacco, fresh air and ventilation, may require attention. In a large number of cases — the majority, according to Bosworth ^—treatment will have to be directed to the nose or naso-pharynx. Any morbid process, or marked structural 1 Diseases of the Nose and Throat, 3rd ed., 1897, p. 625.