18 INVALID FEEDING 11.30 A.M.—Egg flip, or soup, or milk and potash. Fruit. 1.30 P.M.—A small slice of tender roast mutton, or the eye of a tender mutton chop. Vegetable. Jelly. 4.30 „ Afternoon tea (avoiding rich cakes and pastry). 6.30 „ Fish. Milk pudding. 9 „ Cup of soup. Fish.—Whiting, haddock, sole, are the most easily digested fish, and as such should come first in the dietary. They can be steamed and served without any sauce, or stewed in a little milk and served with a white sauce. Nothing is nicer for an invalid than a really well-fried fillet of sole or small whiting, with a slice of lemon to squeeze over it. Steamed Fish.—This is the lightest and simplest mode of cooking fish for an invalid. 1 filleted haddock, whiting, or sole. A small piece of butter. A pinch of salt and white pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. Cut the fillets of fish into neat-sized pieces; grease a soup plate or mufiin dish with a little butter, and place the pieces of fish on this. Sprinkle with a little salt and white pepper if it is allowed, and squeeze over some lemon juice, which helps to keep the fish firm and white. Cover the fish with a piece of greased white paper and then with a lid or basin. Place this over a pan half full of boiling water, seeing that the plate fits well on the pan. Keep the water in the pan boiling so that there may be plenty of steam, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, until the fish loses its clear, transparent appearance, and looks quite white. If the pieces are thick, it is better to turn them while cooking. The liquid that is on the plate when the fish is cooked is the juice from the fish, and should be served with it. Serve the fish with a little plain cold butter, and a piece of plain bread or toast. Stewed Fish 1 filleted fish—whiting, haddock, sole, plaice. 1 table-spoonful bread crumbs. \ gill cold water. 1 gill milk. ^ oz. butter. 1 tea-spoonful chopped parsley. White pepper. Wipe the fish with a damp cloth and cut it into small neat pieces. Kinse out a lined saucepan with water, and place the pieces of fish at the foot. Sprinkle over them a little salt and white pepper, pour in the milk and water; put the lid on the pan, and let the fish cook slowly by the side of the fire until it is ready, which will be in about fifteen minutes. Do not overcook, or the fish will be hard. Lift out the pieces of fish on to the plate on which they are to be served, and keep them hot. Add the bread crumbs and the butter to the water and milk in the pan. Stir over the fire for a few minutes until the bread crumbs swell and thicken the sauce. Sprinkle in the parsley, and then pour this sauce over the fish. Baked Fish \ lb. uncooked fish. 2 table-spoonfuls bread crumbs. J oz. butter. 1 egg. I gill milk. Pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Grease a small pie-dish with a little of the butter. Have the fish free from skin and bone, and cut it into neat pieces. Lay half of these pieces at the foot of the pie-dish; sprinkle over them a little white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and then put on a layer of bread crumbs. Next, put in the rest of the fish, seasoning, and more crumbs. Beat up the egg in a small basin, add the milk to it, and strain this into the pie-dish. Put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top, wipe round the edges of the pie-dish, and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Soups.—The following recipes given for soups are those in which the ingredients are not too rich for the digestive capacity of the convalescent. They form a delightful change after the mono- tony of the beef teas and extracts. These recipes are very useful for the dietary of the aged (see p. 23). Broth—Mutton, Chicken, or Veal 1 lb. neck or knuckle of mutton or veal, or 1 chicken. 2 pints cold water. 1 dessert-spoonful of rice. 1 tea-spoonful chopped parsley. 1 tea-spoonful salt. Wipe the meat well with a damp cloth. Cut into small pieces and remove it from the bone, and take away as much fat as possible. Put meat, bones, water, and salt into a clean lined pan, put on the lid, and bring it very slowly to the boil. Remove with an iron spoon all the scum that rises. Simmer slowly for four hours, skimming when necessary. When cold, remove all the fat. Return it to a saucepan with the rice well washed; allow it to cook again for twenty minutes until the rice