LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 193 of obstetric operation, an assistant is usually required in order to allow the physician to devote his whole attention to the operation. The Rules for the Administration of Chloroform.—The ansesthetic should not be started until the end of the first stage of labour. Before this there is little need for it on the ground of suffering, but in some cases of rigid cervix it may be employed after simpler remedies have failed. During the administration there should be perfect quietness in the room. Chloroform may be given by the open method, or preferably by one of the graduated methods, e.g. Krohne's apparatus, or one of its modifications, described vol i. p. 141. If the graduated method is not available, a few drops of chloroform are put on the end of a towel and should be given only when a pain is coming on, and then is withdrawn as soon as the pain is over. During the second stage the anaesthesia is most useful. The amount given is gradually increased as the head descends. This, by alleviating the suffering to a great extent, enables the patient to bear down more fully. As the head emerges at the vulva the patient should be fairly deeply under; this allows the doctor to have more control of the movements of the head, and thus there is less danger of a ruptured perineum. After the birth of the child the anaesthesia should stop, but there is no advantage gained by wakening the patient artificially. As the chloroform is sup- posed to predispose to post-partum haemorrhage, the uterus must be more carefully guarded than usual. It is unnecessary to give chloroform in this stage even for the repair of slight tears of the perineum, as the parts are usually insensi- tive from the stretching they have undergone ; but if the perineum is badly ruptured, or if the placenta is adherent, chloroform must be given. No harmful effect of chloroform upon the child has been established. Occasionally there seems to be some slight delay in the establish- ment of respiration in the new-born infant, but with slightly more vigorous stimulation this is soon got over. The Administration of an Anaesthetic UNDER Special Conditions.—In cases of heart disease the administration of an anaesthetic is necessary, as the labour should in most cases be completed as soon as possible. The slight tendency to post-partum haemorrhage is here rather an advantage than otherwise, as it will relieve the extra burden thrown on to the heart when the change in the circulation takes place after the birth of the placenta. In cases of anaemia, after placenta praevia or accidental ante-partum haemorrhage, it is better to give ether. If the labour is accompanied by troublesome pulmonary complications, chloroform is the best anaesthetic. For the treatment of convulsions and chorea, vol. V and in the performance of almost all major obstetric operations, the use of the anaesthetic is necessary. Management of First Stage, or Stage of Dilatation This stage begins with the commencement of true labour pains, and ends with the complete dilatation of the os. Its duration is about fifteen hours in primiparae and eleven hours in multiparae. The chief indications for treat- ment are : (1) to assist nature in every way ; (2) to maintain the strength by means of suitable nourishment; (3) to avoid needless examination. Labour progresses most satisfactorily when the pains are regular. A great deal can be done by keeping the patient quiet, interesting her, and not allowing her to be disturbed or annoyed by the presence of undesirable relatives. The nurse's tact and consideration in this stage are most helpful. The right sort of woman will try to interest and cheer the patient in every way. The dress of the patient should be a clean night-gown, doubled up on a level with the crest of the ilia, and pinned on the shoulders, and a petticoat of some flannel material loosely tied round the waist. An excellent and most convenient form of petticoat will be found in taking three yards of flannel with a tape run into it lengthways. This is tied round the waist, and the fulness taken to the back, and the ends pinned together with safety-pins. This has the advantage of being most easily raised up during the second and third stages of labour, and also it can be very easily removed with the minimum of disturbance to the patient. The 2mtient also wears a larger size of woollen stocking and loose slippers; also, during the first stage, she should have on a dressing-gown. One has at this stage constantly to keep in mind the factors that may interfere with the progress of labour. These are : (1) the/)ostfo'o» of the uterus not being that best suited for the ovum to dilate the os ; (2) a loaded rectum ; (3) an overfilled bladder. At this time the patient usually assumes an erect attitude, and either walks about or sits on a chair. This should be encouraged, as the position helps the natural process of dilatation of the os, owing to the influence of gravity and the force of the pains driving the ovum downwards on the os. Volun- tary "bearing down" is of no use, as it does not increase the force acting on the os, and it is, further, very exhausting. If the uterus be anteverted or obliquely inclined, the action of the pains presses the head on the brim of the pelvis rather than against the os uteri, and thus a serious delay to labour is caused. This can be rectified by applying a firm abdominal binder, and letting the patient lie on her back until the head fixes in the brim. A straight 13