198 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF any chance of heemorrhage.^ A few words here on the action and use of ergot are not out of place. The physiological action of ergot is to cause tonic contraction of the entire uterus. When given by the mouth it acts in fifteen to twenty minutes, but in three to five minutes after a liypodermic injection. When given at the proper time ergot is often of the greatest service, but if given too soon its results are most dangerous. The uterine contractions induced by ergot differ from the normal action in being tonic in place of intermittent. Therefore it is only safe to give ergot when the uterus is empty {i.e. after the birth of the placenta and membranes), as then a state of tonic contraction cannot possibly do any harm; and it is a good routine method to give a drachm of ergot to all multipara3. If ergot, howevei-, is given during the first stage, the tonic uterine contractions kill the child and are even apt to loosen the placenta. It is only permissible during the second stage if there is absolutely no danger of any obstruction to labour being present; this can very rarely be made out definitely. During the third stage the tonic contractions of the uterus may cause retention of the placenta. If this should be complicated with htemorrhage, the physician is in a very anxious position, as nothing can be done until the placenta is i-emoved. As soon as it is apparent that the uterus is acting properly, attention must be directed to making the 2Mtient clean and comfortable. All the blood should be washed off" the patient thoroughly. This is best done with creolin and water, soap, and a piece of new flannel; then the soiled clothing is slipped out from underneath the patient. No douching is required unless there has been some form of interference during the second or third stage. If it is indicated, see p. 191. Then the patient should be turned on to her left side again, and the knees drawn up in order to allow of a thorough visual inspec- tion of the perineum, in order to be certain if there is any tear. Tears of the perineum and lacerations of the vagina should be at once re- paired (see " Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs "). Lacerations usually heal quickly and completely if sutured at once, and special attention paid to the cleanliness of the parts. This consists in washing the parts gently after micturition or deftecation with a creolin solution, and the application of a dressing of dry iodoform gauze ; the dressing can be held in place by the diaper. If the wound fails to unite, it is probably due to syphilis or general lowered vitality. ^ Schfifer has shown that suprarenal extract is a powerful stimulant of the muscle fibres in blood-vessels, and more recently has demonstrated a similar action on the uterine muscle. His observations suggest that this extract may be a very useful remedy in cases of post- partum hcEinorrhage and other uterine conditions, where stimulation of the uterine muscle is indicated. The binder, although not absolutely essential, is a great comfort and support to the woman, enabling her to turn on her side. The best form of binder is a long strip of firm towelling, with no shaping. The practice of placing a pad over the uterus usually results only in pushing the uterus to one or other side, and does not serve any good purpose. The binder is fixed by inserting the pins from below up, at about 1 \ inches apart. The toilet is finished by apply- ing a warm pad to the vulva. After the patient is tidy a drink of milk or beef tea may be given. As a rule, the patient can be left safely an hour after the birth of the child. Directions should be left with the nurse to call the medical attendant in the event of any hajmorrhage, rigor, or syncopal attack occur- ring. This will be further referred to under " Puerperium." Management of unusual presentations of the child, viz., persistent occipito-posterior, face, brow, breech, and transverse. In these sections it is assumed that everything is normal except the position of the child. For the etiology, mechanism, diagnosis, and prognosis of these special lies the reader is referred to section on Diagnosis and Mechanism, p. 168. OCCIPITO-POSTBRIOR If the occiput is posterior, labour is likely to be prolonged, as the long rotation of the occiput forward to the symphysis which takes place in the majority of cases occupies some time. In a certain number, however, the occiput rotates into the hollow of the sacrum, and becomes a persistent occipito-posterior. The management depends on whether the case is seen early or late. 1. Early: before Ru2)ture of the Membi'anes.— If, on arriving at a case, the position be diag- nosed as a third or fourth vertex, the best treatment is to turn the child round so that the back of the child lies to the front. This is done as follows :—For the third vertex position—that is, the abdomen looking forward and to the left, and the left shoulder anterior and to the front —the operator places his hands thus—the left in front of the right shoulder, and the right behind the left shoulder; by a series of gentle pushes the child can easily be turned. If the rotation is fully effected the occiput now lies anteriorly, and quickly begins to descend and press on the os, and there is no chance of it slipping back. 2. Late: when the Head ?'.s engaged in the Pelvis.—As there is always the possibility that the head may rotate naturally, wait about three hours. If, during this time, it is neither rotating nor advancing, some help must be rendered. This should be in the direction of imitating nature as much as possible, and by increasing flexion in all cases where it is not