315 LAPAROTOMY tion, Treatment); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Rupture of Uterus, Treat- ment); Labour, Operations {Ccesarean Section); Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovarian Cyst, Ovario- tomy) ; Pelvis, Hematocele and Hematoma {Treatment); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Treatment); Peritoneum, Tuberculous Peri- tonitis {Treatment); Puerperium, Pathology {Peritonitis, Treatment); Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases of {Cancer of Stomach, Treat- ment) ; Typhoid Fever {Perforation of Intestine, Treatment); Uterus, Non - malignant Tu - MOURS OF {Abdominal Operations fc/r' Fibroids); Uterus, Malignant Tumours of {Hysterectomy, Abdominal). La.piS.—A stone, especially in such com- binations as lapis divinus (sulphate of copper, 3 oz. ; nitrate of potash, 3 oz.; alum, 3 oz. ; and camphor, 60 grs.), lapis lunaris (nitrate of silver), and lapis causticus (caustic potash). La.ppa..—The root of the burdock {Arctium lappa), official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia, has a diuretic, diaphoretic, and alterative action, and is used in syphilis, scorbutus, and scrofula. La,rcl. See Adbps. La.rda.cein. (S'ee Lardaceous Degenera- tion. Lardaceous Deg-ener-ation. Definition . . . . . .315 General Characters . . . .315 Etiology 315 Chemistry . . . . . .316 Pathology 316 Clinical Characters . . . .317 Diagnosis 318 Prognosis 318 Treatment . . . . . .319 Synonym : Amyloid, Waxy, or Albuminoid degeneration. See also Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Morbid Processes, Lardaceous Infiltration); Liver, Diseases op {Lar-daceous Liver); Nephritis {Etiology). Definition.—Amyloid degeneration is a peculiar change, affecting certain organs, by which the whole or certain parts of them are converted into a structureless homogeneous substance called amyloid or lardacein. The organs most frequently affected are the liver, spleen, kidneys, and intestines; but lym- phatic glands, the stomach and alimentary canal, the bladder, prostate, generative organs, serous membranes and muscles may at times undergo this change. The same substance also occurs locally in tumours, thrombi, and scars, especially those resulting from syphilis. General Characters.—Organs affected with amyloid degeneration are generally pale in colour, firm in consistency, and much enlarged: the capsule appears stretched and tense, and the edges are somewhat rounded, though the general shape of the organ is maintained. On section, the cut surface presents a peculiar smooth glistening appearance, owing to which the name "lardaceous" was applied to this condition. The organ is bloodless in conse- quence of the pressure exercised by the newly- formed material upon the blood-vessels of the part, and the diminution in their calibi'e pro- duced by the amyloid change in their walls; and to the same cause is due the fatty change in the active cells of the organs, which generally accompanies advanced stages of the process. Microscopically, in the early stages, the affection is frequently limited to the subendothelial layer of the intima and to the middle coat of the smaller blood-vessels, the arterioles and capil- laries being affected before the veins ; later, it spreads to the connective tissue of the organ. Owing to pressure and diminished blood-supply, the essential cells of the organ may be found to have largely disappeared by fatty degeneration and absorption. Amyloid substance may be recognised, when invisible to the naked eye, by its peculiar stain- ing reactions. If on the freshly-cut, washed surface there is poured a solution of iodine, the amyloid substance at once takes on a rich brown (mahogany) colour, while the unaffected tissue is only stained a faint yellow. The same stain- ing may be used for microscopic sections, but fades rapidly, and is therefore iiseless for per- manent preparations. Further, if to sections thus coloured there be added a 10 per cent solution of sulphuric acid, a peculiar greenish colour is produced in the diseased portions. The best stain for microscopic purposes is afforded by methyl or gentian violet. In sections stained with these dyes and subse- quently treated for a few minutes with weak acetic acid, the amyloid substance is stained a bright magenta colour, the surrounding tissue appearing blue. These colour-reactions are not absolutely constant—that with iodine and sul- phuric acid being apparently seen only in very advanced amyloid degeneration, and the simple iodine-staining sometimes failing to appear in tissues which have been long preserved. The violet reaction is the most constant and reliable. Etiology. — Amyloid disease is stated to occur more frequently in males than females, and originates almost invariably in persons below the age of thirty. It occasionally seems to occur as a primary disease, but many of such cases are probably due to causes of which all trace has disappeared. In the great majority of instances it is in- duced by long-continued suppuration, such as that existing in connection with chronic bone- disease, or tuberculosis of lungs, joints, or kidneys. It is also found in tertiary syphilis, and rarely in the cachexia of malignant disease