INVALID FEEDING 21 Bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes until nicely browned. Serve hot. Stveetbreads.—This is another article of food that must be nicely prepared, or it is quite disgusting. The difficulty is to clear oft' all the connective tissue and fat from between the lobules. Soak the sweetbread in cold water for one to two hours. Then put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it; bring to the boil and let it boil for five minutes; then lift it out into a basin of clean cold water to cool it. This preserves the colour of the sweetbread; then with great care remove from it all the fat and skin, pulling them off with the fingers. It is now ready for cooking. Braised Sweetbreads.—Prepare the sweet- breads as above. Braise them for 1|- hours —that is, place the sweetbreads unbroken into a saucepan containing a little onion, carrot, turnip, celery, savoury herbs and seasoning; add a little meat stock (just enough to cover the meat), cover wdth paper and a well-fitting lid. At the end of the time take them out, brown in the oven, and serve on a piece of fried toast, or a bed of mashed potatoes. Pour a good sauce round them, such as sauce Italienne. Sauce Italienne 1 01. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 bay leaf. Onion and spring parsley. 1 gill sherry. J pint second stock. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter ; fry the herbs and onions and flour a good bi-own colour. Add the sherry, and allow it to cook a few minutes; add the stock when boiling and allow to simmer for an hour. Strain the sauce before pouring round the sweetbreads. Stewed Sweetbreads 1 heart sweetbread. 1 gill of white stock. I tea-spoonful arrowroot. 1 table-spoonful cream. White pepper and salt. Break the prepared sweetbread into small pieces of equal size, put them into a small lined stewpan with the stock, put on the lid, and allow it to simmer very slowly until tender. When cooked, lift the pieces of sweetbread out, place them on a neat square of toast on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Break the arrowroot in a small basin with a little cold water, and add it to the stock in the pan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for five minutes so as to cook the arrowroot. Add cream, and season to taste. Pour the sauce over the sweetbread, and serve very hot. Lambs' sweetbreads are very delicate, and can be cooked in this way. See also recipe in diabetic feeding (p. 30) for sweetbreads and tomatoes. Minced Beef \ lb.'best rump steak. \ pint cold water. Pepper and salt. Sippets of toast. Choose the beef, and select a nice juicy piece. Either get the butcher to mince it, or, after removing all fat and connective tissue, put it through the mincing machine. Never buy mince from the shop for an invalid, there is always too much fat in it. Take a small lined stew-pan ; put the minced beef into it with half the water and the seasoning. Put the pan on the stove, and pound the meat well until it loses its raw appearance. Then add the rest of the water, simmer gently by the fire for twenty minutes. Do not allow the meet to cook too quickly or it becomes hard. Remove any grease that may rise on it, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with some neat sippets of toasted bread. Meat Juice Mince lb. best rump steak. 1 small piece of butter. Pepper and salt. Take the meat and rub through the hair sieve until all the red juicy part has gone through ; scrape the bottom of the sieve. Melt a very small piece of butter in a small frying-pan, toss the meat juice in it for three or four minutes until it loses its red colour. Flavour and serve with toast. This looks just like mince; but as none of the fibre is present, it is very digestible. This meat juice mince can be made more easily digestible by omitting the butter, and adopting the following method:— Take the scraped juice and add a table-spoonful of beef tea or simple stock, and stir in an iron pan for three or four minutes, when the juice granulates. If an enamel pan is used the meat has a very unappetising appearance. Beef Quenelles \ lb. beefsteak. Bread crumbs. Salt and pepper to taste. 1 egg. 2 table-spoonfuls stock. Pound the beefsteak, half a teacupful of bread crumbs, salt and pepper, egg and stock, well in a mortar, rub through sieve, shape with table- spoons, and poach in shallow pan for ten minutes in boiling water. Serve with sippets of toast, and pour a gravy made of thickened beef tea round the quenelles.