406 LEUCOMELANODERMA Leucomelanoderma. See Skin, Parasites [Tinea Versicolor, Diagnosis). LeuCOmoria.. —• Restless madness or melancholia. LeuCOmyelitiS.—Inflammation of the white matter of the spinal cord. LeuCOnecrosiS.—A form of dry gan- grene with a whitish slough. LeuCOnychia.—White spots or bands on the nails, or the complete whitening of the nail. See Nails, Affections of (White Spots). Leucopathia.—See Skin, Pigmentary Affections of (Albinism); Choroid, Iris and Ciliary Body ; Leucoderma ; Vitiligo ; etc. LeuCOpenia.—A decrease in the leuco- cytes till their number is below the normal for the peripheral circulation. See Blood (Physio- logical arid Pathological Variations); Leuco- cytosis (Leucopenia). LeuCOphleg'ITiasia.—Anasarca, more especially that form of solid oedema which is developed in phlegmasia alba dolens ("white leg"). LeuCOrrhoea.—A white discharge from the female genital organs (uterus, cervix, vagina, or vulva). See Chlorosis (Symptoms); Curet- tage, Uterine (Indications); Gynaecology, Diagnosis in ; Hydropathy (Chronic Diseases, Douche); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Vaginxt and External Genitals); Pruritus (Va- rieties) ; Uterus, Displacements of ; Uterus, Inflammations of; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of ; Vagina, Disorders of (Injlam- matmy Affections); Vulva, Diseases of. LeuCOtrichia.—Whiteness of the hair; canities. See Skin, Pigmentary Affections of (Pigmentary Anomalies of Hair). Leukaemia. See Leucocyth^mia (Defi- nition) ; H/EMATEMESis (Diagnosis); Liver, Diseases of (Liver in Leukaemia); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases (Foetal Dropsy); Thy- mus Gland (Enlargement); X-Rays. Leu kansem ia. — A morbid condition showing the characters both of leuksemia and of severe ansemia (Leube). LeukokeratOSiS. See Tongue (Super- ficial Glossitis). Leukoplakia. See Syphilis (Tertiary, Mouth, To7igue); Tongue (Superficial Glossitis). Levatores.—Muscles which raise certain structures or parts (e.g. ribs, eyelids, etc.). See Eyelids, Affections of (Affections of Muscles, Levator Palpebrce); Palate (Anatomy, Levator Palati); Physiology, Respiration (Levatores Costarum); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor (Lesions of Levatores Ani). LeviCO. See Arsenic ; Balneology (Aus- tria) ; Mineral Waters (Chalybeate). Levig'ation.—The reduction of a drug to a very fine powder by triturating it with a little water and drying the paste thus produced. See Prescribing. Levinstein's iVIethod.—The abrupt method of treating morphinomania; immediate and complete withholding of the drug; not often available. See Abstinenz - Symptome ; Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits (Treatment). LevU lose.—Fruit sugar (CgHjjOg); it is Isevo-rotatory, i.e. rotates a ray of polarised light to the left. See L/Evulose. Levurine.—A dried extract of beer-yeast, which has been used in cases of sepsis, e.g. carbuncle (A. R. Simpson, Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc, XXV. 91, 1900). Leyden Jar. See Electricity (Static). Leyden's Ataxia.—A spurious form of locomotor ataxia. Leyden's Crystals. See Charcot- Leyden Crystals. Leysin. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts (Switzerland, Canton de Vaud). L.G.B.—The initials of the Local Govern- ment Board, in whose care is the Public Health of England and Wales and of Scotland; in the former country the L.G.B. consists of a President (appointed by the Crown), the Lord President of the Privy Council, all the principal Secretaries of State, the Lord Privy Seal, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer ; in Scotland it consists of the Secretary for Scotland (President), the Under- Secretary for Scotland, the Solicitor-General for Scotland, the Vice-President of the L.G.B., and two members (one legal and one medical). Lice. See Pediculosis. Lichen. Derivation and Definition of the Term Lichen ...... 407 Varieties of . . . . . 407 Lichen urticatus, strophulus, tropicus, hoemorrhagicus, lividus, pilaris, cir- cumscri2)tus ..... 407 Lichen scrvfulosm^um . . . 407 Lichen planus ..... 408 Lichen verrucosus moniliformis . . 408 Lichen ruber acuminatiis . . . 408 Pityriasis rulyra jyilaris . . . 409 Lichen ruber neuroticus . . . 409 Parakeratosis variegata . . . 409