116 KIDNEY absolute indication of a renal hydatid. It has been pointed out that hydatid cysts may be passed per urethram from a collection situated behind the bladder, and bursting into that viscus, but this chance may be disregarded. Only three unequivocal cases are on record in the literature of the last two hundred years. Moreover, if such a collection exists it is dis- coverable by rectal examination. The diagnosis of renal hydatids based upon an elastic, uneven tumour in the hypogastric region may be established by aspiration of fluid with booklets in it from the loin; but this method of investigation is not without risk, for it is liable to induce sujipuration. Operative Treatment.—It used to be urged that these cysts, enjoying as they seem to do long periods of quiescence (ten, twenty, thirty years), need not be interfered with as long as the suffering of the patient is not great, and no rapid increase in size is noticed. It is, however, to be remembered that they gradually contract adhesions with the gut, and these may give rise to obstruction by kinking the bowel; or the cyst may suppurate spontaneously. In every case also the jjressure of the enlarging cysts acts injuriously on the renal structure, and it is wiser to operate early in order to anticipate such untoward events. It is seldom that nephrectomy will be needed. Laying bare the surface of the cyst, incising it, stitching the fibrous capsule to the wound, evacuating the contents, and peeling oft' the mother cyst, is the operation of choice. It is, I think, better to drain the cavity, but this may not be always necessary. If the cyst is already suppurating free drainage is absolutely requisite. Fifteen cases treated in this way have re- sulted in fifteen successes, while nephrectomy has been done five times with four deaths (Albarran). Hydronephrosis Partial or intermittent obstruction in the urinary passages causes dilatation of the renal pelvis and kidney, and if the sac which is formed contains urine the condition is called hydro- nephrosis. There are two forms, congenital and acquired. Congenital Hydronephrosis needs but a brief reference. In 38 per cent of all cases of hydronephrosis some congenital defect is present (Roberts), but the term congenital hydronephrosis is applied to the form present at birth or soon after birth. The condition is due to deformity of the ureter (impervious, contracted, twisted, or kinked ureter), or to the pressure of abnormal renal vessels, or to some abnormality in the urethra. It is sometimes present at birth and gives rise to difficult labour. If the child survives birth it is usually fatal in a few months or years (Newman). Congenital hydronephrosis may be unilateral or bilateral, and other congenital defects, such as harelip, are often present. Acquired Hydronephrosis.—Etiology.—(1) Ureteric Causes.—Calculus impacted in the ureter or stricture of the ureter following its passage (in 59 per cent, Roberts). Contraction of the ureter following injury, pressure on the ureter by pelvic tumours (27 per cent, Newman), by pelvic scar tissue from inflam- mation or sometimes displacements of the uterus, or pregnancy. (In thirty-six autopsies on females recently delivered, Olshausen found hydronephrosis twenty-five times.) Kinking of the ureter in a movable kidney. (2) and (3) Any vesical or urethral impedi- ment to the flow of urine. Pathological Aimtomy.—There is dilatation of the renal pelvis, flattening of the papillae, and gradual destruction and disappearance of the renal tissue until only a fibrous sac remaiiis. Sometimes it attains enormous dimensions. The largest on record is one which held thirty gallons of fluid, while the abdomen measured 6 feet 4 inches in circumference (Glass). The sac is subdivided by septa into loculi which open into the greatly dilated pelvis. The walls may be thick and fibrous, sometimes they are very thin. In some cases a varying amount of renal tissue remains. The cyst contains water with a varying amount of sodium chloride and traces of urea. Sometimes mucus and epi- thelium are present. With the destruction of one kidney the other hypertrophies and per- forms the entire urinary function. Symj^toms.—Tumour.—Often the only sign of hydronephrosis is a large fluctuating tumour situated in the loin. In 59 per cent of cases there is a palpable tumour (Roberts). The loin sometimes bulges, and renal " bal- lottement" may be obtained by placing one hand on the abdomen and projecting the tumour forward with the other in the loin. The swelling is rounded on all sides, and descends slightly with respiration. On per- cussion dulness extends to the spine posteriorly, while in front the tympanitic note of the colon is obtained, and in a tumour of moderate size a resonant note can be obtained separating it from the liver on the right and the spleen on the left. Pain.—The tumour, as a rule, is painless and no tenderness is present; often there may be slight aching, but both these symptoms depend on the rapidity with which the hydro- nephrosis grows. There is rarely hoematuria, and the urine is normal in quantity and quality. Intermittent Hydronephrosis.—In a certain number of cases the tumour suddenly disappears, and coincident with this there is a temporary marked polyuria of urine of a low specific gravity. After a time the tumour gradually