496 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES glands the pigment is ultimately detained and stored, hence the dark colour of the glands at the gate of the liver and elsewhere in chronic malaria. It will be observed that, alongside of atrophy, degeneration, and phagocytic removal of necrotic tissue, regeneration proceeds amain. In those parts where the stroma is destroyed by a hyperplasm no regeneration of liver tissue is possible; but in others, after the pigment in the endothelial cells lining the capillary walls has been got rid of, and the blood-current restored, young hepatic cells are seen occupying the stroma and arranging themselves in rows radiating from the centre in the manner charac- teristic of cells in a hepatic lobule. The structure of a tropical liver can, from the account just given, be readily understood. The perilobular thickening, the destruction of liver- cells, and their place taken by areas of dilated vascular and lymphatic vessels in a connective- tissue stroma, the increase in size of some lobules and diminution in others, account for the large smooth-surfaced liver met with as the results of malaria. Hyperemia or Congestion of the Liver A. Active Congestion .... 496 Causation ..... 496 The Tropical Liver . . . .497 Effects of " Climate ". . . 497 Increase of Physiological Functions 497 Impairment of Physiological Functions . . . .497 Signs and Symptoms . . .498 Diagnosis . . . . .498 Prognosis . . . . .498 B. Passive Congestion .... 498 Mechanical Venous Obstruction. . 498 Physiological Passive Congestion . 499 The Part played by the Nervous System 499 Treatment ...... 499 Under this title several hepatic ailments, differing considerably in their symptoms and wholly in their cause, are included. It is clini- cally unfortunate that such is the case; and although several would-be distinctive names have been bestowed upon each of them, the terms active and passive congestion continue to be the accepted nomenclature. A. Active Congestion.—Definition. — When a large excess of blood is present in the liver owing to increased " inflow" from the portal vein or hepatic artery, the liver is said to be in a state of active congestion or hypersemia. Causation.—In health, after every meal, the quantity of blood brought to the liver by the portal vein is increased in amount; and as the digestion of the meal proceeds, the hypersemia lessens and finally subsides. Owing to several causes, however, the hypersemia created during digestion of a meal may be excessive, and may continue even after the meal has completely disappeared from the stomach. The failure of the physiological flow and ebb of blood to the liver may be owing to one of the following causes:— (1) The amount of the solids and fluids in- gested may be in excess of the power of the liver to deal with or assimilate. (2) The char- acter of the food may be of so irritating a character, or the quantity of alcohol imbibed may be so excessive, that a hepatic engorge- ment ensues. (3) The gastro-intestinal tract may, owing to altered conditions or to disease, produce toxic elements which reach the liver by way of the portal vein and set up hepatic irrita- tion and consequent hypersemia. (4) The liver may be rendered hypersemic through the blood of the general circulation becoming impregnated by toxicants, such as malaria, the poisons of several of the common fevers, yellow fever, etc. (5) Active congestion of the liver may result from exposure to cold. Several of these causes give rise to what is popularly known as "biliousness," a term which, although elastic in its meaning, conveys fairly definitely what is implied. In consequence of over-stimulation by alcohol, by wines rich in salts, by excess of food, etc., the functions of the liver are interfered with to such an extent that assimilation and excretion are over-taxed; the blood is surcharged with salts, which may result in a gouty storm; the urine becomes loaded with urates, alternating with oxalates, or it may be with albumin or sugar. Slight jaun- dice may be present, caused either by pressure on the radicles of the bile ducts, or it may be the result of catarrh of the duodenum and com- mon bile duct, induced by the dyspepsia which almost invariably accompanies hepatic conges- tion. Gastric catarrh, as distinct from intestinal catarrh, is often a feature in congestion of the liver. The gastric juice may fail in its function whilst the intestinal juices and the assimilation of food in the intestine continue to be normal. In such a condition the congestion of the liver is secondary to the gastric condition, and evan- escent in character, and not the cause thereof. Were the liver primarily hypersemic, the whole ali- mentary canal would be affected simultaneously. In another group the intestinal tract is the primary seat of pathological change. Catarrh, ulcers, excoriations, inflammatory changes, or retained faeces give rise to abnormal chemical products which reach the liver by the portal vein and cause a local determination of blood. Auto-intoxication from this source reaches the system by way of the portal vein, and the liver is the organ disturbed in the first instance. The hypersemia of the liver may be but the first stage of the sequence which afterwards induces hepatitis and then cirrhosis or suppura- tion. According as the products absorbed are wholly bacterial in their nature, or bacteria