340 LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS ence with voice, will all be proportionate to the size and position of the web. Examination.—The laryngoscope reveals the cause of the above symptoms. The diaphragm is nearly always limited to the'anterior part of the glottic space. The rest of the larynx is usually normal. The web is seen to stretch across the anterior commissure from one vocal cord to the other. It is symmetrical, somewhat translucent and membranous-looking, and in some instances slightly pink ; it is triangular in shape, with the apex at the junction of the cords. The base or free border is not quite rectilinear, but is generally curved, and the restricted glottic space lies between this border and the inter- arytenoid space. This edge, as a rule, is white, and appears to be thicker than the main part of the membrane. The membrane increases in thickness again as it approaches the anterior commissure. On phonation it is seen that the cords move freely, but their complete approxi- mation anteriorly is prevented by the membrane, which becomes folded between them. Slighter indications of such a membrane are frequently met with. In many cases it is fore- shadowed only by a rounding of the ordinary acute angle at the anterior junction of the vocal cords ; in other cases a small fold of membrane is seen in the subglottic region below the anterior commissure entirely unconnected with the cords, and apparently causing no symptoms. The thick- ness of the web increases from behind forwards. In only one case—that of Chiari's—did the web occupy the posterior region of the larynx. Pathology.—As to the pathological causation of these webs there is nothing in their appear- ance to suggest an inilammatory or pathological origin, and the source of the malformation has not yet been explained. There is nothing in the development of the larynx to throw light on the subject; but Roth has shown that the upper part of the air-tube in its first development is glued together, the epithelial gluing matter being formed in part from elements of the outer terminal layer (epiblast), and in part from the elements of the intestinal gland layer (hypo- blast). Bruns finds in these observations a clue to the explanation of the occurrence of these laryngeal webs. The cause of their formation would seem to be traceable to the agglutination of the original formation being only incompletely loosened and persisting in part. Treatment. — The treatment will depend entirely on the amount of interference with respiration. In the slighter forms, and particu- larly when there is no dyspnoea or stridor, and the voice is not greatly interfered with, the wisest plan is to leave the web strictly alone, warning the patient of his condition and of the greater precautions he should take in the event of laryngitis or other inflammation of the respiratory tract. When there is more or less complete aphonia, when there is stridor or dyspnoea, relief must be obtained by surgical measures. The most complete and radical method of removing the web would, at first sight, appear to be by splitting the thyroid cartilage (laryngo-fissure or thyrotomy), but it has been found that in these cases there is marked tendency for adhesion to take place after this operation between the raw anterior extremities of the cords, so that intralaryngeal treatment is required for some time afterwards to prevent an even worse form of stenosis. Before in- augurating treatment for the removal of the obstruction by intralaryngeal methods, it is well to bear in mind the fact that in several instances these webs have been found to be extremely tough ; so much so that in Seifert's case ^ the intralaryngeal knife actually broke in the tough tissue, and Semon found it quite impossible to make an incision into the web. He was successful by first using the galvano-cautery to divide the web up into portions, which were later on removed by intralaryngeal forceps. Other cases have required careful dilatation by Schroetter's or other laryngeal dilators, and such cases appear to offer a viseful field for O'Dwyer's method of intubation. Some cases have required tracheotomy, and then the sten- osed portion has been attacked from below. (For further methods of treatment, vide p. 372.) Pachydermia Laryngis Definition.—This term has been applied to a form of hypertrophic laryngitis which has received considerable attention from the fact that its pathology has been fully investigated by Virchow. Possibly this has secured for the affection more attention than it warrants, for, as will be seen later on, it is but one clinical form of the hypertrophic variety of chronic laryngitis. In Virchow's original paper ^ he described two forms of pachydermia. One, in which the hypertrophy was limited to the anterior part of the vocal cords, he called pachydermia verrucosa or the warty form. To the second form he applied the term diffuse pachydermia. The former need not be con- sidered ; it hardly ever established itself as a pathological entity, and with the progress of laryngology it has disappeared. With regard to Virchow's second group, although its claim to a separate class may be doubted, it is still convenient to retain it as a form of hyper- trophic laryngitis. It is a chronic affection characterised by more or less symmetrical thickenings over the posterior ends of the vocal cords and the neighbouring parts of the inter-arytenoid space. Symptoms.—As the disease is more particu- larly limited to the posterior part of the larynx and so does not interfere with the approximation of the greater portion of the cords, it causes a ' Berlin. IcUn. Wocli., 1886, No. 10. 2 Ibid., No. 32, 1887.