233 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED in a place in which asepsis can be secured, is attended with no greater risk than that of labour at term. The immediate prognosis for the mother is therefore better if she is delivered by cephalotripsy than if Csesarean section is done. The objections are (1) that the child's life is sacrificed, and the mother deprived of the happiness of maternity; and (2) if we look further into the future than the days of child- bed, is the prognosis so much better for the mother? If she lives the life of a healthy married woman she will probably have preg- nancy after pregnancy, each with its discomforts and dangers; and the sum of these dangers to her life (not to speak of the comfort of her life) will probably be as great as that of one Csesarean section. I think that from the point of view of the mother's life Csesarean section, followed by sterilisation, is to be preferred to cephalotripsy. Consider next a pelvis with a conjugate of from 2| inches to 3| inches, and not appreci- ably contracted in the transverse diameters. Assume that the patient has been wise enough to consult you early in pregnancy. There are two alternatives. One considers solely the immediate interests of the mother. It is to induce labour before the child is too large to come through the pelvis. If this is done early enough the mother will have an easy labour, but the child will be puny and difficult to rear. The time to choose for the induction of labour is a compromise. The earlier the labour is induced the easier it is ; the later it is postponed the stronger the child. Therefore it should be done at the very latest time at which it is possible for the child to pass through the pelvis. Measure the pelvis, and measure the uterus. The greatest girth at the full term of pregnancy in a patient who is not fat, dropsical, or the possessor of a tumour, and whose uterus con- tains a child of average size, with an average quantity of liquor amnii, should not exceed 1 yard—36 inches. The measurement in such a case from the symphysis pubis to the top of the uterus, over its convexity, averages 13 inches. At seven months' pregnancy these measurements should be less. If the patient thinks herself only seven months pregnant, and yet her measurements approach those of an average full-term pregnancy, there is need for investigation as to the cause of her excessive enlargement. Palpate the abdomen, and find out where the fostal head is. If it is not over the pelvic brim, perform external ver- sion, if possible, and get it over the brim. When the head is over the brim, try how easily it can be pressed down into the brim. If it can be pressed down easily into the brim, tell the patient to come again in two, three, or four weeks' time, according to the: ease with which the head could be pressed down into the brim. As soon as the head just fills the brim tell the patient that the time has come to induce labour. This is the way by which the mother gets more safely and easily over pregnancy and labour, but not the way by which the birth of a strong and healthy child is best secured. If the mother is willing, in oi'der to have a strong and healthy living child, to incur a little more risk, you can add half an inch to the conjugate diameter by symphysiotomy. This operation, if done in suitable cases, and by the subcutaneous method, is almost without risk. The ill results that have occasionally followed symphysiotomy are either preventable, such as hsemorrhage and septic infection—risks almost abolished by the subcutaneous method of operat- ing ; or they have occurred in unsuitable cases —those in which the pelvis was so small, or the child so large, that it could not be pulled through the pelvis without excessive separation of the pubic bones. If the pubic bones are pulled farther apart than 2 inches there is risk of damage to the soft parts below them— urethra and bladder—and to the sacro-iliac articulation. Before symphysiotomy is under- taken the patient should be examined with as much care as before the induction of premature labour, and the relation of the equator of the head to the shortest diameter of the pelvis estimated. If the former diameter exceeds the latter by more than half an inch, symphysiotomy is not suitable. When the head presents not, the relative size of the head and the pelvic bi-im cannot easily be determined. In this case try to turn the child by external or bimanual manipulation, and get the head over the brim. The possibility of this depends upon whether there is enough liquor amnii to enable the foetus to move freely. If you cannot do this, the only guide as to the possibility of delivering a living child by sym- physiotomy is the measurement of the pelvis and of the uterus. Measure the diagonal con- jugate, and deduct half an inch from it to get the true conjugate. Measure the greatest girth, and the distance from the symphysis to the top of the uterus, measured over the anterior convexity of the uterus. If the girth exceeds not 36 inches, and the distance from pubes to top of uterus exceeds not 13 inches, you may safely assume that the child is not larger than the average—and may be smaller. The objections to symphysiotomy are :—First, the immediate risk to life from {a) hasmorrhage, (5) septic poisoning. These risks attend every operation in which a large wound is made; but they are preventable ; and if symphysiotomy is done by the subcutaneous method, and with a clean knife, they practically cease to attend it. Secondly, the risk of impaired power of loco- motion from imperfect union of the symphysis. The experience of Ahlfeld and others shows that even when the two pubic bones are only united by fibrous tissue (and it is doubtful whether they ever unite in any way) and remain