LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF 357 of the suspected growth as anxiously as he had done before the microscopical examination was made. He has no right to throw the responsi- bility for an erroneous diagnosis upon the microscopist, and must, if needs be, have the courage of his own opinions, and proceed to radical operative interference even in the face of negative microscopic evidence. Needless to say, the aid of the microscope is only available if there be a projection sufficiently large to be intralaryngeally removed. Often enough, in cases of general infiltration, this is not possible. Having attained a certain size, which some- times may be so considerable that they practically fill the entire larynx, malignant new growths, whether originally appearing in the form of a definite neoplasm or of a more general infiltration, begin to break down in parts whilst they extend in the periphery. The time within which this breakdown begins to occur immensely varies in individual cases. In most it will become apparent within a few months from the onset of the disease ; in others, however, and I have seen several such cases, the growth, having attained a certain size, remained apparently stationary for a much longer time, the maximum I remember being a year and a half, before ulceration occurred. From that period onwards the laryngoscopic aspect usually is that of an irregular ulcerating tumefaction, covered in part with greyish niuco- pus, whilst in other parts reddish fungating granulations may be seen to be springing up one day, and to have practically disappeared the next. In still more advanced stages, and particularly when the perichondrium has be- come involved, there is often a very consider- able amount of acute oedema to be seen round the new growth, and this oedema may not very rarely completely obscure the original disease. Often enough, between all these changes, it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to recognise the preformed parts of the larynx. It will have been seen from the foregoing description that no uniform picture must be expected in these cases ; practically every case shows some individual differences. When once the disease has advanced to that stage in which practically the whole larynx has become involved, and changed into a partly ulcerating, partly luxuriantly proliferating tumefaction, whilst at the same time the glands underneath one or both jaws form very large, very hard, or even externally ulcerat- ing masses, there can be, as a rule, not much difficulty about the differential diagnosis of malignant disease from other laryngeal affections. In the earlier stages, however, these difficulties sometimes are very considerable, and indeed so great that even the most experienced observers are not exempted from occasional diagnostic errors. Apart from benign neo- plasms, the difi'erential diagnosis from which has already been dealt with, the affections with which malignant disease of the larynx is most likely to be confounded are chronic laryngitis, syphilis, tuberculosis, lupus, perichondritis, pachydermia, laryngis, and paralysis. The differential diagnosis from chronic laryngitis comes, of course, into question only in the early stages of malignant disease, and is as a rule facilitated (as already mentioned) by the fact that the congestion preceding actual tumefaction in malignant disease is iwiilateral. Thus, if a vocal cord should be the primary seat of the disease, the much congested colour of the affected cord strikingly contrasts with the normally white one of the other. At least one case, however, has come under my notice in which, after a preliminary stage of apparently simple 5ilateral congestion of the vocal cords, malignant disease of the larynx developed. In that case unusual complications occurred, inasmuch as, trusting to the non-dangerous character of what appeared to be simple chronic catarrh of the larynx, no objection had been medically raised to the patient's insuring his life for a large sum shortly before the real character of the disease declared itself. The possibility, remote though it be, of malignancy ought therefore to be kept in view, if an apparently simple chronic laryngitis, even though 6^1ateral, does not yield to the usual remedies. With regard to syphilis the differential diag- nosis often offers very considerable difficulties. Of course, the previous history of the patient, the coexistence of other syphilitic lesions in other parts of the body, or the traces of old syphilitic disease in the forms of scars, etc., will help in the decision; but none of these are absolutely to be relied upon, as malignant disease not rarely affects persons who have suffered from syphilis. Tertiary syphilis of the larynx manifests itself either by a distinct gummatous tumour, or by a more general gum- matous infiltration. The former, which, as a rule, is red or yellow, usually solitary, occasion- ally multiple, and surrounded by a zone of inflammation, as a rule breaks down very rapidly, often within a few days, whilst a malig- nant ulcer requires, as a rule, weeks for its development. When a gumma has broken down, a large, deep crateriform ulcer results; whilst in a malignant ulcer tumefaction often remains round the ulcer, and fresh thickening appears in the periphery. The size of the carcinomatous ulcer usually is larger than that of a syphilitic, and when once the boundaries of the larynx have been transgressed by malig- nant disease, the infiltration of the cervical lymphatic glands as a rule is much more con- siderable than that observed in syphilis. All these signs, however, do not positively protect against occasional mistakes, and in a good many