415 LIFE INSURANCE ance Company, and later still by the late Dr. Warburton Begbie, and probably most medical examiners at the present day would adhere more or less to this view, especially where the age of the proposer is under thirty years. It might, however, become a question for discus- sion whether such a life might not be accepted at least with an extra premium, if he himself was in good health and over thirty years of age. The farther he had passed thirty the less risk there would be to the insurance company. Ought the same rule to apply to gout, rheu- matism, cancer, insanity, paralysis, etc. 1 Most medical examiners would probably not go so far as this. They would probably seek for some evidences of these or associated diseased condi- tions in the proposer himself before rejecting him altogether, or even recommending his ac- ceptance at an increased rate. Each disease has, therefore, to be considered separately, and the points to be considered in regard to it are :—- 1 st: Its liability to manifest itself in successive generations. 2nd : The age at which it is most likely to appear. 3rd: The effect the disease or constitution has on expectation of life. 4th : The kind of insurance proposed—whether en- dowment or whole life. These will be best con- sidered later in connection with the particular diseases. 2. Previous History of the Proposer. — The previous history of the proposer often gives much information bearing on the question of his expectation of life to the medical examiner and to the insurance company. His past history may indicate what is his constitutional diathesis, and also, whether he has had any disease that is likely to have left him weak or more liable to the onset of other diseases. For instance, a history of acute rheumatism in the early life of the proposer would indicate, not merely the existence of the rheumatic diathesis, but would also clearly call for a special examination of the condition of the heart. Similarly with scarlet fever, an examiner should naturally specially look for sequelae of that disease, such as enlarged glands, otorrhoea, cardiac disease, and kidney mischief. The previous history of the proposer is therefore more of importance as a guide to the examiner where to specially examine for any weakness which may have developed as a result of past illness, than as an indication as to whether the proposer is to be admitted or rejected, because I take it that there are very few cases where the past history alone would cause the rejection of the life if no trace or result of the past illness was found at the time of the medical examination. 3. Present State of Health of the Projwser.— The state of health of the proposer at the date of his examination must necessarily be the most important of the factors in determining whether the proposer is a healthy life or not. A careful examination must therefore be made of all his organs with the object of finding out not only how they are at present performing their functions, but whether there is any trace of abnormality or defects produced by previous illness or habits. Mere questioning of the individual is not sufficient, as he may not be aware of some very important weakness in his organisation, such as the presence of organic heart or kidney disease. The general appear- ance often gives very important information as to his state of health. Such general appearance when taken along with the family history may indicate whether the life is a good one or not; even such details as the complexion, and whether the proposer resembles more closely his father or his mother, being of importance. The weight of the proposer should always be noted and compared with the height. When a person is much over weight his expectation of life is not so good as that of a person of about normal weight. In the same way a person under weight, and especially markedly under weight, is either already affected with, or is in a condition in which he is more liable to the onset of disease. The family history, the pre- vious health, and the constitutional diathesis of the individual, should all be considered along with the weight. Under-weight, for instance, may show a tendency to tubercular disease; whilst over-weight may point to a tendency to gout, to stomach and liver troubles, and also may give some indication of the habits of the individual. The following table of Hutchinson's gives the average relation between the height and weight of an adult man :— Height 5 feet 1 inch. ,, 5 ,, 2 inches, u 5 ,, 3 ,, 5 „ 4 „ 5) 5 5) 5 ,, ti 5 ,, 6 ,, 11 5 ,, 7 ,, )) 5 ,, 8 ,, )) 'J 11 11 1, 5 „ 10 „ „ 5 „ 11 „ 6 ,, Weight 120 lbs. 126 ,, 133 ,, 11 139 ,, „ 142 „ „ 145 „ „ 148 „ ,, 155 ,, „ 162 „ „ 168 „ „ 174 „ „ 178 „ An approximate method of arriving at what the weight of a person ought to be, is to take the cube of his height in inches and divide by 2000 ; the result is what the weight ought to be in pounds. For instance, a person of six feet by this method ought to be 186 lbs. in weight. One-seventh either above or below this may be quite consistent with health (Maclagan). Rapid changes in weight should always be looked upon with suspicion. Deformities, such as spinal curvature or other changes indicating diseases of bone, should be specially noted, and particular attention paid to whether the disease which caused such