KIDNEY 99 In a few cases (9 per cent) symptoms of urinary disease are already present when other signs appear. Pain.—The initial pain soon becomes more severe. From a dull, heavy aching it becomes sharper and more stabbing, and often assumes a paroxysmal character of great severity. Some- times it is intermittent, and it has at times a remarkable "tertian" character (Elias). Con- fined at first to the affected loin it later radiates along the distribution of the lumbar nerves to the hip, thigh, knee, grom, and sometimes to the testes and penis. The pain is exaggerated by every movement, and especially by coughing or straining. Tender- ness in the renal region is an early and invari- able symptom. Some temporary anaesthesia or paresis of the thigh on the aff"ected side has been observed (4 per cent, Nieden). Fever may be severe, commencing at the outset of the disease with rigors. It is usually continuous, with morning remissions. Like the pain it may be absent at intervals, and in this way resemble ague. Fever is a more striking feature in those cases which arise apart from renal disease than in those where the inflam- mation spreads from the kidney. It has been noted that in some cases the pain and fever become less marked a day or two before the appearance of the swelling. In subacute or chronic cases the fever may be slight. Tmnour. — In the early stage nothing but marked tenderness is discovered on palpating the loin. So severe is this pain on pressure that the abdominal wall resents the palpating hand by firm contraction, and an anaesthetic is advisable in making examination. With the patient recumbent, if one hand be placed so as to support each loin, an increased sensation of weight may be detected by the surgeon before any swelling can be defined (Morris). After some days (eight to fifteen days. Trousseau) or weeks or even months, an indefinite fulness can be felt deeply placed, and later a lumbar tumour appears (87 per cent, Fenwick). At first this is firm and ill defined, later an actual lumbar swelling can be seen. The natural curve of the waist becomes obliterated, the skin cedematous, and the surface tempera- ture is raised. Sometimes when the abscess tends to point the skin is reddened and congested. On palpation the swelling is very tender, and if the abdominal wall permits, the outline will be found indefinite and fluctuation can be elicited. The respiratory movements do not affect the tumour. The flank is dull, but at the interior and inner side of the swellinsr a tympanitic note betrays the position of the colon. Much depends for ease in examination on the thickness of the abdominal wall. As much as six pints of pus have been concealed beneath a fat belly wall without fluctuation being discovered (Morris). There is a dis- tinguishing tendency to bulge backwards into the flank, rather than forwards into the ab- domen (Rosenstein). In some subacute cases a tumour is found lying under the unaltered skin, which is very elastic, often resistent and globular or egg- shaped, rarely of hour-glass form (Giiterbock). Effect on the Attitude and Movements of the Patient.—Lameness is often observed as an early symptom (Dufiin), and the patient in sitting tends to rest on one tuber ischii (Morris). The body is often held bent forwards and inclined towards the affected side; this habit will draw attention to the hip, and in the presence of referred pain in this region without marked lumbar symptoms, may lead the observer astray. On examination the patient lies on his back in bed, with the thigh of the diseased side flexed, and often abducted and rotated outwards, so that the heel is in relation to the dorsum of the other foot, the thigh cannot be extended without pain, and adduction is per- formed with difficulty (Gibney). The condition closely resembles that of the second stage of hip-joint disease, and is due to the unconscious attempt at relaxation of the abdominal and psoas muscles. There is, however, entire absence of tenderness, swelling, or muscular wasting about the hip-joint, and by flexion of the thigh the psoas muscle is thrown out of action, and rotation is now perfect and painless. Condition of the Urine.—Changes in the urine occur in 33*3 per cent of cases (Giiterbock) but these give very little aid to diagnosis. In cases of old-standing urinary disease there may be blood, pus, etc. in the urine, but the condition is unaffected by the presence of peri- nephritic suppuration. When renal disease is absent, albumin, casts, and even blood may appear in the urine, prob- ably from pressure on the renal vein (Morris). Pus is present at intervals in 10 per cent of primary cases (Fenwick). In some cases a large number of bacilli have been discovered in an almost normal urine preceding rupture into the renal pelvis (Fiirbringer). Often no urinary trouble is present at all, or only the abundant lithatic deposit of febrile urine. General Symptoms.—Constipation is invari- able, and is a marked feature of the case, while flatulence is very troublesome. Doubtless the constipation may be partly explained by the great increase of pain when the bowels are moved. The appetite fails, there is often nausea, sometimes vomiting, and in acute cases rapid loss of flesh occurs. Interference with movements of the diaphragm causes a marked frequency of respiration. Unilateral oedema of the foot or leg is some- times observed, and has preceded the other symptoms by some weeks.