LABOUR, OPERATIONS—VERSION 290 thinned, and any forcible manipulation must result in rupture. It need hardly be stated that in these cases the greatest care and gentleness must be exercised in the manoeuvre. When the shoulder is impacted in the pelvis turning is much expedited by the application of a noose of tape round the ankle, by which traction may be made, while at the same time the shoulder should be gently pushed in an upward direction (Fig. 7). Should, from thinning of the uterus, rupture Fig. 7.—Internal version in impacted case assisted by loop. (After Schaffer.) be feared, decapitation of the child is to be preferred. This, fortunately, however, is rarely necessary. The dangers of version are mainly sepsis and rupture of the uterus, both of which are avoid- able ; the first by careful attention to antisepsis and asepsis, and the second by the recognition of existing conditions, which must lead every intelligent practitioner, from his knowledge of general principles, to exercise the necessary amount of caution which is required in dealing with a mechanical problem where the conditions must vary in each individual case. Practical Rules for Turning 1. If labour not yet begun, try external method. 2. If labour commenced, membranes un- ruptured, and OS uteri slightly dilated, try external method. 3. If membranes unruptured and os uteri sufficiently open to admit three fingers, try either external or bipolar. 4. Bipolar method specially indicated in placenta prsevia, with os uteri partially open. 5. If membranes unruptured and os dilated sufficiently to let hand through, try bipolar method first in all cases, if no hurry; if hurry necessary, perform internal version at once. If membranes ruptured, internal method is alone available. 5. Embryotomy Synonyms 290 In Head Presentations— Indications . . . . .290 Stages of Operation . . .291 Perforation . . . . .291 Commimition . . . .292 Extractio7i 293 In Trunk Presentations— Indications ..... 294 Procedures . . . . .294 Evisceration . . . .294 Decapitation . . . .294 Spondylotomy .... 294 Embryotomy (Gr. "'Efx^pvoTofJiLa) and em- bryulcia (Gr. "Efji/SpvovkKia) are terms alterna- tively applied from ancient times to delivery brought about through mutilation of the infant. The former term is expressive of the procedures that imply the cutting to pieces (Gr. rrfixvo) of the embryo or foetus, whilst embryulcia ex- presses the dragging out (Gr. eXKco) of the mangled remains. Cases of embryotomy are sometimes described as cases of craniotomy, cephalotripsy, etc., according to the method adopted for securing the delivery. For ages, physicians and surgeons who were called in to see women in difficult labours knew no other way to save the mother but to sacrifice the life of the child, hacking it to pieces, fracturing its bones, and extracting it with hooks or pincers. Version, the Forceps, Induction of premature labour. Symphysiotomy, and the Ceesarean sections, have limited the range of application of embryotomy, so that some ob- stetricians have expressed the opinion that improvements in these other operations should enable the practitioner to dispense altogether with a process that necessitates the death of the infant. We have not yet, however, attained to this desirable ideal, and the practitioner still meets with cases both of head and of trunk presentation where he finds himself warranted and even compelled to have recourse to em- bryotomy. A. In Head Presentations Indications.—The conditions that justify or require the sacrifice of the life of the child are usually to be found in such disproportion between the passages and the passenger that the latter cannot be passed through unless it be diminished in bulk. I. Fault in the Passages.—There are different forms of contraction of the Bony Pelvis, such as the rickety, where the contraction is mainly at the brim; the kyphotic, where the outlet is narrowed; the osteomalacic, where the whole canal is narrowed. In any of these the prac- titioner may find himself shut out from delivery by the alternative operations, and obliged to have recourse to perforation of the