LABOUR, INJURIES DURING 270 5. Injuries to the Perineum.—Anatomy.— The female perineum includes the very important " perineal body," which is a portion of the posterior segment of the pelvis, and its elastic yet resistant properties enable the recto-vaginal septum to undergo great distension during labour. The perineal body is triangular in vertical section, and its boundaries are the posterior wall of the vagina in front, the anterior wall of the rectum behind, and the integument covering the perineum between the vagina and anus below. It may roughly be said to extend laterally as far as the ischial tuberosities. The structures contained in the perineal body are well seen in Fig. 60, and consist of fibre of Fig. 60.—Sagittal section of the perineal body showing its component structures. (Norris.) the levatores ani, superficial and deep transversi perinei, and bulbo-cavernosi, with the internal and external sphincter ani muscles, and layers of fascia from the anal and superficial perineal fascia, and from the triangular ligament. Nature of the Laceration.—In primiparse there is almost always a tear through the hymen, generally a little on one side of the central line, and often at several other points round its vaginal attachments. The main tear in the mid-line extends into the fossa navicularis, and iisually will pass beyond this and lacerate the anterior edge of the perineum, the posterior fourchette. Deep hymeneal tears necessarily pass through the mucous membrane and invade the subjacent connective tissue, and, during the process of healing, the pieces of hymen are separated as small islets, or tubercles, by inter- vening cicatricial tissue, or modified mucosa, and are called carunculce myrtiformes; the presence of these is evidence of the passage of a large body through the vaginal outlet, and would usually indicate the passage of a child of at least a viable age and size. Tears which involve the perineum usually begin as above stated, extending backwards along the line of the median raphe through the sphincter and into the anus, or they may pass along the side of the mid-line, and follow the outer edge of the sphincter without actually destroying its integrity. Varieties.—Perineal rents may be "complete," i.e. lacerating the vaginal mucous membrane, perineal body, and sphincter ani, so opening the rectum anteriorly ; or " incomplete," where the vaginal mucous membrane and the integument with a larger or smaller part of the perineal body has given way, leaving the rectum intact. More rarely a tear, termed "central," occurs, where the rent seems to begin either on the vaginal mucous membrane or on the perineal surface, and extends deeply into the perineal body, working right through, leaving the sphincter ani and the posterior fourchette in- tact. Cases have been described where the child has been born through this " central" tear; but in the majority of such cases the anterior margin of the perineum would ulti- mately give way, and probably the sphincter ani as well. Still more rarely the perineal body seems to have given way in its centre, with a resulting perineal haematoma, which may suppu- rate a few days after the child is born. As an apparent result of the hardening of the skin of the perineum by bicycling, extensive tears of the deeper structures of the perineum may occur. The author has seen a very tough perineal skin drawn forward over the head as it extended from under the pubic arch, and has subsequently found the skin to have been com- pletely separated from its subjacent structures almost down to the rectum, accompanied by tearing of the vagina longitudinally, exposing the rectum laterally also. Causation.—Perineal injuries are commoner in primiparEB, especially after thirty-five years of age, and the more rapid the labour the more likely is the tear to be severe. A large " passenger," especially a large head, predis- poses, especially if the pains are strong. Some- times the perineum is too long, for though its average length, from margin of anus to posterior fourchette, is just over an inch, it may vary from I of an inch to over 2 inches. Rigidity of the parts, the presence of a small subpubic angle, or an altered inclination of the pubes, may lead to severe tears. In a vertex presenta- tion the tear usually occurs when the sub- occipito-frontal diameter is passing through the outlet, especially when the supra-orbital ridges are emerging. In unreduced occipito-posterior presentations the perineum runs a great risk of rupture; for here, instead of the vulvar outlet being stretched by the circumference of the head when its diameter is the sub- occipito-frontal (4 inches), it has to make room for the head to pass when its diameter is the occipito-frontal (4J inches). Sometimes the head seems to be passing through normally, and yet a severe rent suddenly appears, and it is found that the child's hand was applied to its chin, and that the sharp ridge of the fore-arm