LEUCOCYTH^MIA 400 three to ten minutes thrice a week or oftener. Exposures should be made over the spleen; the bones and enlarged glands have also been rayed. Neighbouring parts may be protected by lead shields. Effects of the Rays on the HcBmopoietic Organs and Blood.—As a rule, the spleen becomes softer and diminishes in size after a few exposures. In many cases it speedily returns to normal dimensions; in a few instances, however, even repeated applications have produced no effect. Enlarged glands become smaller, though the change in them is less marked than in the spleen. Tenderness of the bones disappears. The general effect on the blood is to produce a steady diminution of the leucocytes. There is, it is true, an immediate temporary rise of short duration, due in all probability to the profound changes in the lymphoid tissues causing a flood- ing of the blood with white cells; but this is followed by a speedy fall, which may amount to nearly 200,000 per c.mm. after a single ex- posure. Generally, however, the diminution is more gradual—perhaps twenty or thirty ex- posures spread over five or six weeks being required to bring the leucocytes to an approxi- mately normal number. The leucocytes, more- over, are altered qualitatively as well as quantitatively, the abnormal elements practically disappearing. Arneth and others have worked out the changes which occur. The lympho- cytes, particularly the larger forms, steadily diminish; the neutrophile myelocytes dwindle and may vanish altogether, while the poly- nuclears correspondingly increase. Mast cells fall, while the eosinophile group becomes normal. There is, at the same time, a rise in the red corpuscles, and a disappearance of abnormal forms. Broadly, then, the effect of the rays is to produce an aleuksemic phase. Myelocytes are more susceptible than lymphocytes, and in lymphocyte leuksemia, though the count may become normal, the percentage of lymphocytes usually remains high. With the symptomatic cure, the general health is correspondingly improved; relapse, however, occurs sooner or later, and the treat- ment must be repeated with, as a rule, less prospect of success than before. Satisfactory on the whole, considering the nature of the malady, as the treatment is, it is not entirely devoid of risks. The rapid destruction of large numbers of leucocytes is associated with the liberation of toxic products, and it is not surprising that some cases of fatal toxsemia have been reported. Sudden death has occurred from this cause in not a few instances, and in some of these nephritis has been found. The treatment, therefore, should not be entered upon when there is any evidence of renal disease, or any suspicion of toxaemia —cautions which practically exclude acute leuksemia from the scope of X-ray treatment. Among minor inconveniences, dermatitis, pal- pitation, vomiting, and diarrhoea have been reported. Natureofthe Action of X-Rays.—Theoretically, the diminution of leucocytes produced by the rays may be due either to inhibition of the function of the blood-forming organs, or to stimulation of leucolysis. There is reason to suppose that the latter view is correct. In animals subjected to exposure to the rays, Heinecke, whose work has been confirmed and is generally accepted, found marked evidence of destruction of the lymphocytes throughout the body—in the splenic pulp, marrow, glands, and follicles of the intestines. The change begins within three hours of exposure, and is complete in from thirty-six to forty-eight hours. Probably the leucocytes in the circula- tion are also destroyed. The red corpuscles, on the contrary, resist the action of the rays. In man, accompanying the diminution of the leucocytes, there is an excessive output of urinary phosphorus and nitrogen. X-ray treatment has also been employed in pseudo-leuksemia, in which the results are said to be better than in leukaemia (about a quarter of the patients treated remain alive and well for three or four years — Pancoast), in poly cythaemia (without benefit), and in perni- cious anaemia. In the last-named disease the liability to the occurrence of toxaemia, and the frequency of kidney lesion, seem to contra- indicate the remedy.] Leucocytosis. Definition ...... 400 Physiological Leucocytosis . . .401 Pathological Leucocytosis . . .401 Forms— 1. Ordinary (finely granular) Leu- cocytosis 401 Leucopenia . . . . .402 Presence of Myelocytes . . . 403 2. Lymphocytosis .... 403 3. Eosinophile Leucocytosis . . 404 Nature of Leucocytosis . . . 404 See also Anemia ; Anemia, Pernicious ; Blood (Physiological and Pathological Varia- tions) ; Chest, Clinical Examination of (Blood Counts); Chlorosis (Pathology); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-spinal (Symptoms, Blood); Pneumonia, Clinical (Complications); Rheu- matism, Acute (Symptoms, Changes in the Blood); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Special Symptomatology of Cancer of the Stomach, Diagnosis); Suppuration (Leuco- cytosis) ; Whooping - Cough (Complications, Leucocytosis). The term is applied to an increase above the normal of the leucocytes per c.mm. in the circulating blood; but it does not embrace the increase of leucocytes met with in leuco-