172 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM for though attempts have been made to utilise it by the vagina, and a stethoscope has been contrived for the purpose, no information of value can, for many reasons, be obtained by this route. For the purpose of diagnosis of the relations of the child to the pelvis, the only sound which is of any value is that of the foetal heart. In the commonest position of the child in the cephalic lie, namely, when it lies with its head flexed and the occiput pointing to the mother's left and somewhat forwards, the foetal heart is best heard over a point about the middle of a line joining the left anterior spine to the navel; that is, at the spot where the right upper part of the child's back lies in contact with the uterine wall immediately under the abdominal parietes. A layer of fluid between the child and the surface cuts off all possibility of hearing the sound; and this may be heard better over parts of the child, even if they are more remote from its thorax, so long as such parts are touching the uterine wall in front, than over the cardiac area of the child if this be separated by fluid from the end of the stethoscope. The heart- sounds of the foetus are, therefore, never heard over the front of its chest unless it is in an attitude of extreme extension, such as is found in presentations of the face. The sounds are more distinctly heard when coimter-pressure is made on the opposite side of the uterus to the stethoscope, so as to bring the conducting surface into closer contact with the abdominal wall. Vaginal Examination.—By vaginal examina- tion the condition of the pelvis and its contents are more or less distinctly made out, according to the stage of labour. It is really com- plementary to the abdominal examination, and should not be undertaken until as much as possible has been already determined by the latter means. As far as the mechanism of labour is con- cerned, and we are dealing here with this alone, the points to be observed are the relations of the parts within the canal of the cervix—or vagina, as the case may be—to the pelvic walls and to one another. Thus it is ascertained how far the bag of membranes, if this exists, protrudes in front of the presenting part; whether the cord is pre- senting or prolapsed ; what the presenting area is ; and its relations, in position and size, to the pelvic walls. After a careful abdominal examination, there is no difficulty in very rapidly making one's self quite certain on all these points. If no pre- senting part can be discovered it will easily be decided to what cause this must be referred, for a transverse lie will have already been made out by the abdomen, as will a high-lying breech or a hydrocephalic head ; and, in the absence of these conditions, placenta prsevia will be thought of and recognised. (Another cause of absence of presenting part, namely, rupture of the uterus and escape of the foetus into the abdominal cavity, need not be considered here.) If necessary to complete diagnosis, the whole hand may be introduced into the vagina under an antesthetic. As a matter of course, antiseptic measures must be rigidly practised. Combined Examination.—A most accurate determination of the mechanism to be expected can be made by the bimanual method. The part occupying the pelvis or its inlet can be held between the fingers of the opposing hands, and all or nearly all its surfaces explored and recognised. In the case of the head the amount of flexion, and the relative size of the head and brim, can be infallibly demonstrated and the previous diagnosis confirmed. In breech cases the presenting part can be brought within easier reach of the vaginal finger, and its dis- position clearly ascertained; or if a shoulder is presenting, this can be identified. The other points in diagnosis may be mentioned, namely, the escape of meconium, which, in any quantity and unmixed with liquor amnii, strongly suggests a breech presentation; and the discharge of an excessive amount of liquor amnii, which may be due to hydramnios and may also indicate a podalic lie, or may mean a transverse lie or a contracted pelvis. In this category comes also a prolapsed cord, as showing that the presenting part does not accurately fit the pelvic inlet. Mechanism of Normal Labour The mechanism of labour, by which is meant the movements which the foetus makes in its passage through the parturient canal, is a process almost entirely belonging to the second stage. Some attention, however, will have to be paid to the first stage, that of dilatation of the cervix, and even to periods anterior to this. Three factors combine to constitute the mechanism of labour. They are :— A. The expelling force. B. The passage through which expulsion is effected. C. The body to be expelled. The expelling force is provided by the con- tractions of the uterine muscle, the muscles of the vagina, and those of the abdominal walls, as has been already described. This force must act, as far as it is an effective one, in the axis of that portion of the canal occupied by the part of the child actually engaged in it.^ ' The head is said to be " engaged" in the pelvis when it has entered sufficiently for its movements to be influenced by the pelvic walls ; and any other part of the child is " engaged " in that region of the pelvis which is influencing the movements of the said part by its shape.