510 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES fills the patient becomes feverish, melancholic, loses appetite and weight, is unable to pursue his daily occupation and is confined to his bed or to the house. The result may be recovery ; but, on the other hand, a fatal issue is not uncommon Moreover, once the abscess has been allowed to burst into the lung, the chances of localising the pus in the liver by aspiration are greatly diminished, or may be rendered altogether impossible owing to the narrowed limits of the sac of the abscess in the liver. Such a result, therefore, should never be waited for. To allow a liver abscess to burst through the lung is unjustifiable; it means either want of acumen in diagnosis, or a hesitation in operation which is not consistent with rational treatment. Rupture of an abscess of the liver into the pleura causes symptoms of empyema, and unless speedily operated upon will certainly tend to a fatal result. Rupture of a hepatic abscess into the stomach brings on vomiting of liver pus, and a cessation of the urgent symptoms arising from the re- tained pus; but the prognosis is most un- favourable. When liver pus finds exit into t\\e pericardium, the 2^erito7ieal cavity, or the inferior vena cava, a speedily fatal case can only be looked for. Pus from the liver may burrow downwards, and after involving the right kidney, may find exit in the ureter; or it may pass behind the kidney and point in the loin. The former generally ends fatally, but the latter may result in recovery. Of all the modes of spontaneous termination, that by way of the lung is the most common. Render has analysed the results of 563 cases of liver abscess and finds that in 159 cases —that is, in 28 per cent — spontaneous rup- ture occurred, and the path taken by the pus in the 159 cases is recorded by Render as follows :—Ruptured into the lung in 59 cases ; into the peritoneum, 39 ; into the pleura, 31 ; into the stomach and duodenum, 8; into the colon, 6 ; into the loin, 6 ; into the bile ducts, 4; into the inferior vena cava, 3; into the kidney, 2 ; and into the pericardium, 1. The order here cited fairly well represents the scale of danger in spontaneous rupture gener- ally. It will be observed that 90 of the cases burst upwards into either the lung or pleura, proving the frequency with which the abscess is situated towards the back or dome of the liver. The course of the pus is no doubt de- termined by the course of the lymphatics, and as the majority of the lymphatics of the liver find exit upwards between the layers of the coronary ligament, the path of the pus is no doubt thus determined. Early operation is an important factor in the recovery from liver abscess. Delay can only lead to loss of strength, destruction of liver tissue, and involvement, or, it may be, the perforation of some neighbouring viscus. There is no justification for delay, and the postpone- ment of the operation for even a single day may lead to unfavourable results. Mortality.—Statistics of the results of liver abscess up to the last twenty years have little bearing upon present-day results. Operations are undertaken now at a much earlier stage in the disease; clinical symptoms have a clearer interpretation; the aspirator as an aid to diagnosis has revolutionised our treatment; Listerism has minimised the dangers of laparo- tomy ; and a liver abscess is no longer viewed as the rare disease it was once held to be, nor dreaded by the surgeon as a well-nigh incur- able ailment. Figures which once indicated a mortality of 80 per cent from liver abscesses have fallen to between 20 and 30 per cent, and there is no doubt that with earlier operations the mortality will be still further reduced. Treatment. — Medicinal treatment in sup- puration in the liver is confined to allaying the effects of such concurrent ailments as hepatitis, intestinal flux, dysentery, and fever. These are to be treated with the usual remedies specially applicable when no abscess in the liver is present; but as each and all may be dependent upon or caused by the presence of pus in the liver, the means of treatment and drugs at our disposal may fail to accomplish the marked eff"ects usually attributed to them. Poultices or counter-irritation of the liver, and drugs, may serve to mitigate the local and general effects of hepatitis. Dysentery may be treated by Epsom salts or by ipecacuanha, and fever may be controlled by some one of the available methods. None of these applications or drugs can, however, affect the abscess, which, when once formed, exists as a pathological product, incapable of treatment by medicinal agencies. Expectant Treatment.—Liver abscesses have been found on post-mortem examination to have become absorbed. In the substance of the liver, what could only have been the sites of pus have been very occasionally met with in bodies in which no clue to pus being present in the liver was afforded during life. The pus evidently became absorbed, and a fibrous or a cretaceous remnant may be all that betrays the fact that pus once was present. Expectant treatment, however, bears a broader significance. The belief existed, if it does not yet exist, that it was better in the interests of the patient not to operate, but to let the pus pursue its bent towards the lung, intestine, or whatever organ or tissue it selects to traverse. This principle of treatment was, no doubt, ad- vocated in view of the unsatisfactory results which obtained from the older form of operation. Partly also it was due, no doubt, to hesitation on the part of medical practitioners isolated in out-of-the-way places to undertake abdominal