231 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED Fig. 50.—Direct pelvimetry, measurement 2J inches. be measured during or after the third stage of labour in the way just described. If it is less than 4 inches, it can be measured by Johnson's method more accurately than in any other way ; if it is more than 4 inches, its precise length ceases to be important. As the transverse measure- ment at the brim usually exceeds 4 inches, it can seldom be estimated in this way ; but any mea- surement at the brim that is less than 4 inches can be taken in this way as accurately as the conjugate. It is difficult to measure the transverse at the outlet by .John- son's method, be- cause the resistance of the perineum is so great; but if there is reason to believe this diameter contracted, its internal measurement should be attempted. In the slighter degrees of pelvic deformity, when the head is presenting at the brim, .Johnson's method cannot be applied before delivery; but if neither the head nor the breech is presenting, or if the pelvic de- formity is so great that the head cannot at all sink into the pelvis, Johnson's method can and ought to be applied before delivery with the assistance of antesthesia. An experienced person may fall into error from failing to get his hand into the smallest diameter of the brim; but this is a mistake that a little care will guard against, and it is the only source of fallacy which attends Johnson's method of pelvimetry. It is often desirable to know the length of the obstetrical conjugate in cases in which Johnson's method is inapplicable before de- livery. In that case the only way is to measure the diagonal conjugate, and infer from it the length of the obstetrical conju- gate. This can be done either in the custo- mary left lateral position or in the dorsal position. In the former position the left hand must be used; in the dorsal position either hand may be employed. With the patient on her left side, the middle and index fingers of the left hand must be introduced into the vagina and pressed up until the middle finger feels the sacral promontory. One finger cannot reach far enough for this. The difficulty in reaching the promontory lies in the resistance of the perineum, which must be pressed up by the knuckles of the third and fourth fingers, and this pressxire on the perineum is painful to the patient. The amount of pressure exerted depends on the length of the diagonal conjugate and the thickness and firmness of the pelvic floor. One who is regardless of the pain he causes can feel the promontory in almost any woman; but it is in practice not needful to much hurt the patient, for if the promontory cannot be reached without very forcible upward pressure it may be safely concluded that the conjugate is not much, if at all, shortened, and its exact measurement need not be taken. When it is so contracted that its exact measure- ment is important, it can easily be felt. When the tip of the middle finger is in contact with the promontory the back of the right forefinger should be applied to the front of the pubic symphysis, and held at right angles to the radial border of the left index finger and palm, so that the nail of the forefinger marks the spot at which the left examining hand touches the pubic symphysis. Then the hands are removed, with the right forefinger still in contact with the left hand, and the distance measured from the right forefinger nail to the tip of the left middle finger. This distance is the diagonal conjugate ; it forms one side of a triangle, the other side being the symphysis pubis and the true conjugate. The length of the symphysis pubis is easily measured, and if we could as easily measure the angle which it forms with the diagonal conjugate, we could then from these Fig. 51.—Mode of measuring the diagonal conjugate. data exactly calculate the length of the true conjugate. But to measure the inclination of the symphysis pubis requires special apparatus, an assistant, and an amount of exposure and manipulation of the patient that make this