INVALID FEEDING 19 is soft. Add the parsley at the last, and it is ready for serving. Tapioca (Groult's) or arrowroot may be used for thickening instead of rice. Rice Soup 1 pint of mutton, veal, or chicken broth. 1 table-spoonful of Patna rice. Yolk of an egg. 1 table-spoonful of cream. Strain the broth and remove all fat from it; put it into a clean saucepan with the rice well washed, and boil until the rice is perfectly soft. Then rub all through a fine sieve, rinse out the pan, and return the soup to it. Beat up the yolk of egg and cream with a fork; strain them into the soup, and stir care- fully over the fire until thoroughly hot—but it must not be allowed to boil. Tapioca or sago may be used instead of rice to thicken with. Also three tomatoes might be boiled with the rice, and then rubbed through the sieve. This would make tomato soup. Rabbit Soup 1 rabbit. 1|- pints cold water. ^ pint milk. J oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. A few pieces of parsley. 1 bay leaf. 6 peppercorns. J tea-spoonful of salt. Wash and clean the rabbit well. Let it lie in salt and water for half an hour. Lift out, dry it, and cut into joints. Cut the flesh into small pieces and chop the bones. Put all these into a saucepan with cold water, with bay leaf, parsley, salt, and peppercorns. Bring to boil and skim well. Simmer slowly from five to six hours; then strain through a fine sieve. Put the meat into a mortar; pound it well with a little liquid, and rub it through a wire sieve. Rinse out the pan; melt in it the butter; add the flour, and mix till smooth. Then add the sieved meat, soup, and milk, and stir until boiling. Boil for ten minutes. Game Soup 1 bird (grouse, pigeon, woodcock, partridge), or the remains of game. \ lb. lean juicy meat. \\ pints cold water. ^ tea-spoonful arrowroot. A pinch of celery seed, pepper, and salt. Wipe the game and meat with a cloth ; shred the meat as for beef tea; cut the game up into neat pieces. Put all these into a lined sauce- pan, with cold water and seasoning; bring slowly to the boil, and skim thoroughly. Allow the soup to simmer for four hours. Strain and allow to cool, and then remove the fat. Mix the arrowroot with cold water; add this to the soup. Boil for two or three minutes until the arrowroot turns quite clear. Fish Soii'p Small haddock or whiting, or piece of cod. \ oz. butter. I oz. flour. 3 gills or 1 pint cold water. 1 gill of milk. 1 yolk of egg and ^ gill of cream. 1 tea-spoonful finely-chopped parsley. Wash and scrape the fish very clean ; see that there is no black skin lining the inside part. Remove the eyes. Cut the fish across into several pieces, and put them in a lined saucepan. Cover the fish witli cold water, and add the salt. Bring to the boil and skim. After the soup has boiled for a few minutes lift out a few nice little pieces of fish free from skin and bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup at the end. Allow the rest to simmer slowly for | to 1 hour. Then strain through a wire sieve, and rub some of the white pieces through. Rinse out the pan the soup was cooked in. Melt in it the butter; add the flour, and mix these two smoothly together, being careful they do not brown. Then pour on the soup that has been sieved, and stir until boiling. Beat the yolk of egg and cream and milk together; and, when the soup is off the boil, beat these ingredients into it ; then strain through a fine strainer, stirring all the time. Do not let the soup boil after the yolk is added, or it will curdle. The pieces of fish that were reserved and the chopped parsley are now added. Meats Of this class of food, poultry, game, and rabbits are the most easily digested. They can be served in the usual manner of roasting, boiling, and stewing. A few extra methods of preparation are here given. Tripe and sweetbreads form most excellent dishes for persons of weak digestion, and only require to be more thoroughly known to be in common use (see pp. 20, 21). Broiled Chichen 1 small chicken. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Prepare a young chicken for roasting ; split it down the back, and lay it open, and take only half at a time. Rub the piece of chicken over with a little butter to keep the skin from crack- ing, and season with pepper and salt. Grease the gridiron and make it thoroughly