205 LABOUR IN MULTIPLE PREGNANCY judge of the reason of this from the occasional occurrence of twins in general practice; it is only when grouped together in sufficiently large numbers and compared with ordinary labour that one can realise wherein labour with twins differs from single cases. Unfortunately, stat- istics have generally been compiled in a form which lessens their value for the purpose in view. Often the number of children stated as born dead includes, undistinguishably, the non- viable and decomposing, together with those lost in the birth; the first and second born are grouped together, instead of separately; and the length of the interval between the births, if given at all, is discussed apart from the results to the children. The data that will be here quoted, when not otherwise stated, are taken from the Reports of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, published by Collins, by Hardie and M'Clintock, and by Johnstone and Sinclair. The number of women confined of twins was 568. The value of the statistics lies in the fact that the sex and pre- sentation of each child, the duration of the labour and of the interval, the number of the pregnancy and the results to mother and children, are given in the majority of the cases. Excluding all children reported as "putrid" and those born before a viable age, there were 538 cases available for analysis. Anomalies.—The course of labour in multiple pregnancy is much the same as in single births, but there are certain anomalous features which have important bearing regarding management. Owing to a greater tendency to pathological conditions, the labour is liable to be mare or less premature. The ratio of premature births has been estimated at as much as 26"5 per cent (Reuss). The relative frequency of the various presenta- tions is different from that found in single births; breech and transverse presentation are more frequent, yet this, it will appear, is favour- able rather than otherwise. Both foetuses present by the head in about 50 per cent; one head and the other breech in 30 per cent; both by the breech in 9 per cent. More rarely a head or a breech presenta- tion may be associated with a transverse lie, the latter generally in the second child ; both foetuses lying transverse is very rare (Spiegel- berg). Duration of Labour. — Multiple pregnancy rarely gives rise to difficulty in labour, and in the vast majority of cases the natural powers are sufficient to complete delivery. Conditions that retard the progress of labour are, however, more frequently present. The delay occurs before the birth of the first child, and chiefly, though not entirely, in the first stage. According to the Dublin data, in single pregnancies 90 per cent of the cases were com- pleted within twelve hours, and 2 per cent only were protracted beyond twenty-four hours ; whilst with TWINS, 90 per cent of deliveries were not reached till fully twenty hours, and nearly 8 per cent were protracted over twenty-four hours. The cause of the delay is usually ascribed to " inertia due to over-distension "—an expi-ession often used inaccurately. The over-distension which causes delay in the first stage is not so much due to the increased bulk of the foetal bodies as to the relatively larger amount of liquor amnii commonly met with in twin preg- nancies ; and the delay is not owing to any inherent weakness of the uterine muscle, but to imperfect transmission of the force by the uterine contents. Owing to the relative excess of liquor amnii the action of the bag of waters in dilating the os is liable to be defective,^—a condition which is not peculiar to twin cases, but is frequently met with therein. The pro- longed ineffectual action so caused is liable to produce secondary " inertia " of the uterus after the birth of the first child, leading to delay in the expulsion of the second child and difficulty in the third stage of labour. The risks to both mothers and children are increased in multiple pregnancy. The material death-rate has been in some cases fully double, and the infant mortality two and a half times greater than in single pregnancies. Maternal Risks.—-There is one cause that has a marked influence on the unfavourable results, which must be mentioned although it is apart from labour—it is, that in multiple preg- nancy there is an increased tendency to eclampsia. In 568 twin pregnancies there were 7 cases of convulsions, or 1 in 81 cases, whereas in ordinary pregnancies the ratio was 1 in 363 cases. The difference is not due to a relative greater number of primiparae in one series more than the other, for the proportion, 30 per cent, was the same in both. The great risk to the mother undoubtedly is increased liability to hemorrhage after the birth of the children—dangerous in itself, and predis- posing to complications in the puerperium. The statistics of twin as compared with single births show that (1) post-partum haemorrhage was five times more frequent; (2) the placentfe were adherent twice as frequently ; (3) retention of the placenta from all causes, necessitating manual interference, occurred six times more frequently. Various conditions here combine to increase the liability to haemorrhage; there are the larger area of the placental site and an increased diffi- culty in the separation and expulsion of the secundines, due to the larger placental bulk to be expelled, and an apparent greater tendency to adhesion. To these must be added the in- creased risk of uterine fatigue when the labour has been retarded, causing slow and weak con- traction and imperfect retraction.