KIDNEY 121 In the first variety the deposit is in the kidney substance, and will probably remain unrecognised; in the second a perinephritic abscess of very chronic type is formed. It is also said to occur as a primary condition (Fischer). The condition is very rare indeed, and the kidney is less liable to invasion than the lower urinary tract (Ruhriih). Diagnosis.—The special characteristics of actinomycosis are its very chronic course, great infiltration, marked tendency to invade the skin and form sinuses, with a peculiar red-violet colour of the integument, and the discharge of pus containing "sulphur granules." The condition most resembling actinomyco- sis is tubercular inflammation, but the above characteristics may sufficiently differentiate it. In 75 per cent of cases some occupation in which constant contact with straw or grain (coachman, farmer, field-labourer, miller) is followed by the patient (Leith). " Sulphur granules" may be found in the urine when the urinary tract is invaded (Billroth). Treatment.—Medical.—Potassium iodide is a specific for the disease, the results of continued administration being very satisfactory. Local.—Abscesses are opened and scraped and sinuses dressed. The Ureter The ureter extends from the renal pelvis to- the bladder, running in a kind of lymph-space between the laminae of the subperitoneal tissiie. Its average length is twelve inches, and diameter when distended a sixth of an inch. It is conveniently divided into abdominal pelvic and vesical portions. The abdominal portion lies on the psoas and genito-crural nerve, and imder the peritoneum. On the right side it has the inferior vena cava almost in contact with it internally, and on the left the aorta internally. The pelvic portion crosses the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, the obturator internus, and then txirns below the psoas to enter the bladder. In this latter position in the male it is crossed superiorly and internally by the vas deferens, and lies under cover of the free extremity of the vesicula seminalis, separated from its fellow by a distance of an inch and a half. In the female it runs parallel with, and four to six lines from, the servix uteri—behind the urine artery; finally crossing the upper third of the vagina to reach the vesico-vaginal interspace, and pierce the bladder opposite the middle of the vagina (Anderson). 1. Injury.—Rupture of the ureter from violence without an external wound is exceed- ingly rare, and the symptoms it gives rise to are not characteristic. After blows on the abdomen or loin, or crushes, the symptoms of damage to other organs will probably claim attention, and the ureteric injury may pass unnoticed. Pain and tenderness on pressure in the line of the ureter are the only symptoms referable to the ureter. At first hsematuria may occur, or it may be entirely wanting. It may be marked or slight. Neither does the fact of it being absent after a severe injury to the loin show that the ureter has been torn across. The first reliable sign is the appearance of a swelling in the loin, of a rounded or oval contour, some time after the accident; it is formed by retroperitoneal ac- cumulation of urine, for the seroxis membrane is unlikely to be ruptured coincidently. If a rigor now occurs, siippuration may be presumed to have taken place in the sac, and the case may run an acute course with fatal issue, or may gradually approach the surface as an abscess, and finally discharge, leaving a urinary sinus. Suppuration does not always result, however, and a cicatrix may form in the ureter, which narrows or entirely obliterates the lumen of the tube. Under these circumstances a hydro- or a pyo-nephrotic swelling is likely to result, but in some cases complete atrophy of the kidney has been demonstrated. Months or even years may elapse before the dilated kidney is discovered, and at this distance the original injury is apt to be overlooked. If the peritoneum be ruptured at the time of acci- dent, peritonitis rapidly leads to a fatal result. Treatment. — Operative interference should be advised, when from the appearance of a swelling the diagnosis of ruptui-ed ureter becomes probable. It will usually be limited to incision and drainage. Afterwards an attempt may be made to restore the calibre of the ureter. 2. Inflammation and Dilatation.—When the back pressure of prostatic or other urethral obstruction begins to aft'ect the ureter, the only symptom which may evidence the fact is pain before micturition and relieved by the act. The pain corresponds to a point internal to the mid-Poupart line, and on a line with the anterior superior iliac spine; sometimes the external abdominal ring is the seat of pain. By the use of the cystoscope further evidence may be obtained, for the mouth of the ureter usually shows signs of dilatation. Inflammation of the ureter (ureteritis) either ascends from the bladder or descends from the renal pelvis. The patient complains of inter- mittent pain along the course of the ureter, and that tube may sometimes be felt as a tender cord on abdominal, vaginal, or rectal palpation. No treatment is specially directed towards the ureteric affection, for it is the same as that of pyelitis. Stone in the Ureter The majority of renal calculi either remain in the renal pelvis or pass quickly through the