52 JAUNDICE (.Jaundice); Pruritus {Causation); Purpura {Symptomatic) ; Toxicology {Non - metallic Elements); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Seqvelce). Definition.—Jaundice is the condition due to the presence of bile pigment in the blood, and is recognised clinically by staining of the skin, conjunctivfe, mucous membranes, and urine by bile pigment. Causation.—The formation of bile pigment from haemoglobin is carried on by the cells of the liver, for, as shown by experiments on animals, this transformation does not take place when the liver is removed or, what comes to the same thing, when all the vessels going to it are ligatured. Jaundice, or the presence of bile pigment in the blood, is due to the bile manu- factured by the liver passing into the circulation instead of into the intestines. This miscarriage of the bile may occur either directly the bile pigment is formed by the liver cells, i.e. before the bile enters the bile ducts, or later after it has entered the ducts. In cases of long-standing biliary obstruction, where the dilated intrahepatic ducts only contain mucus, the bile formed by the liver cells passes almost directly into the adjacent lymphatics, thence into the thoracic duct, and so reaches the general circulation. Cases of this kind, in which no bile is visible in the ducts, were formerly thovight to prove that jaundice might result from suppression of the bile-excret- ing function of the liver, and be due to the resulting accumulation in the blood of bile pigment formed in the circulation from haemo- globin. The presence of bile pigment in the liver cells in such cases shows that the formation of bile still continues. When there is obstruction in the ducts the bile passes from the bile capillaries or ducts into the lymphatic vessels of the liver, and not into the blood-vessels. This has been shown by the experiments of Saunders early in this century (1809), and later by Fleischl (1874), V. Harley (1892), and Szubinski (1899). It has also been shown that jaundice due to ligature of the bile duct may be removed or prevented by ligature of the thoracic duct. Obstruction to the flow of bile through the ducts leads to a rise of the normally low pressure of bile, and as a result the bile passes into the lymphatics, and so into the general circulation. This clearly explains the production of jaundice in cases where a gross mechanical obstruction in the ducts exists, but it is necessary to consider the method of causation of jaundice in those cases where there is no manifest obstruction in the larger bile ducts. Pathology of Jaundice Jaundice was formerly divided into (1) hepatogenous or obstructive, where there was an unmistakable obstruction in the larger ducts, and (2) Where there was no gross obstruction visible to the naked eye. In contrast to the first category, this form was spoken of as non- obstructive. It included cases—{a) Where the jaundice was thought to be due to changes occurring in the blood, leading to the liberation of haemoglobin and its transformation in the circulation into bile pigment. This constituted " hajmatogenous" jaundice. (b) Where an excessive secretion of bile into the intestine was followed by excessive absorption from the mucous membrane of the bowel and subsequent overflow into the general circulation. This was called jaundice from polycholia. (c) Where owing to suppression of the bile-excreting function of the liver cells an accumulation of bile pigments, manufactui-ed from ha;moglobin in the blood, occurred in the circulation. This was known as jaundice by suppression. Consideration of" Ilcematogenous " Jaundice.— In various toxic and septic conditions of the blood, where the haemoglobin is liberated from the red blood corpuscles, jaundice of a slight degree of intensity is often seen. A good example of this " toxaemic " jaundice is provided in the experiments of Hunter with toluylene- diamine. This poison, when introduced into the circulation, gives rise to destruction of the red blood corpuscles with liberation of haemo- globin (haemolysis), and to jaundice. After its administration the flow of bile is at first increased, and there is an increase in the bile pigments poured out (polychromia), owing to an augmented amount of free haemoglobin, the antecedent of bile pigments, reaching the liver. After a time the amount secreted diminishes, and the bile becomes more viscid, until finally the flow of bile becomes almost arrested. This slowing and diminution in the flow of bile is found to depend on inflammation of the smaller intrahepatic bile ducts, which become swollen, secrete thick mucus, and are in a condition of catarrhal cholangitis due to the toxic effects of the toluylenediamine. The jaundice, therefore, is really obstructive, but being due to changes in the small intrahepatic ducts is readily overlooked. This explanation accounts for the slight jaundice accompanying morbid conditions such as septicaemia, pyaemia, haemoglobinuric fever, pernicious anaemia, and poisoning by phosphorus, arseniuretted hydro- gen, and snake-bite. This jaundice, therefore, is toxaemic, and depends on the presence of a poison in the blood which sets up inflammatory changes, and consequently obstruction in the small intrahepatic ducts. It may therefore be conveniently described as haemohepatogenous, but not as haematogenous jaundice. Experiment shows that the presence of free hajmoglobin in the blood, though it leads to an increased secretion of bile pigment in the bile (poly-