INJURIES OF 146 KNEE-JOINT, frequently involved. There will always be haemorrhage into the joint. Subsequently there is considerable synovitis and a tendency to arthritis deformans. Treatment.—Weight extension with lateral traction, if necessary, to correct the varus or valgus. Massage and passive movement should be commenced as soon as swelling and pain have subsided. Compound and comminuted fractures involving the knee-joint should be treated by the removal of small loose fragments. When a tuberosity is detached it should be wired. If asepsis be obtained good movement may be expected. Fracture of Upper End of the Fibula, usually due to a direct kick, or fall on the outer side of the leg, may be produced by strong contraction of the biceps muscle. The fragment is not always displaced, and the chief symptoms are pain on pressure and possibly crepitus. The external popliteal nerve may be injured. If displacement is present the best treatment is probably to wire the fragment in position, as it is not easily controlled by splints; otherwise, retention on a splint for a fortnight followed by a knee-cap will suffice. Fracture of Patella is more common than dislocation, and occurs chiefly in males between the ages of twenty and fifty. The patella, owing to its position, is much exposed to injury. Fracture may be from direct violence, such as a fall or a severe blow on the knee. The resulting fracture is usually of a stellate form, the bone being splintered in more or less radiating lines. Owing to the strong aponeu- rosis in which the patella lies, the fragments as a rule remain close together. If, however, the knee be forcibly bent after the bone has been broken, extensive tearing of the aponeu- rosis takes place. Rarely direct violence may result in oblique, longitudinal, or transverse fracture. Fracture from indirect violence is much more common, and is due to muscular action. It usually occurs after stumbling or having missed a step. It is brought about by the sudden violent contraction of the quadriceps extensor in the effort to save a fall after stumbling or missing a step. At the moment the effort is made the knee is bent, and the patella rests on the edge of the condyles. The contracting muscle bends and then breaks the patella across; the result is a transverse fracture, which may or may not be across the centre of the bone. The aponeurosis and lateral ligaments are usually considerably torn, allowing of a wide separation of the fragments. There is much truth in the popular saying that " a drunken man in falling seldom or never breaks his knee-cap," the explanation being that he falls like a log, making no effort to save himself. Sometimes, as in the case in which the patella is struck by a relatively soft object, such as a tennis ball, the patellar reflex is probably one of the causes of transverse fracture. Frequently the aponeurosis covering the patella ruptures at a different level to the bone, and the flap resulting may fall and lie between the fragments. To this fact, in addition to wide separation and tilting of the fragments by the pressure of effusion, is ascribed the frequency of fibrous union in cases of fractured patella, which are not treated by operation. The symptoms are very simple if fracture is through the middle of the bone, and is attended with separation of the fragments. The bone being embedded in the joint capsule, the injury involves opening into the joint cavity, and extravasation of blood therein which may rapidly and completely fill the joint. The signs are loss of power of extension of the leg, a more or less distinct gap between the fragments, and lateral mobility of the fragments. The gap is increased by bending the knee. In recent cases one may be able to bring the fragments together and elicit crepitus. If only a small piece of the patella is torn off, especially if the fibrous investment of the bone is fairly intact, diagnosis may be more difficult. Fractures from direct violence may be com- pound. In obscure cases a skiagram will be of assistance. The prognosis depends on the kind and severity of fracture, whether stellate or trans- verse, on the amount of separation of the fragments, and on the method of treatment adopted. Fractures from direct violence give very good results. Cases where there is separation treated by other means than suture almost invariably result in fibrous union, which tends to yield; those treated by suture result in union, which is frequently bony, or, if fibrous, is much closer and stronger. After fracture the strength and mobility of the limb are often permanently diminished. The impairment in capacity for work must depend to a considerable extent on the patient's occupation. Persons with some light occupation, in which they chiefly sit at work, are but slightly incapacitated; those engaged in laborious occupations, in which physical force is of value, will sviffer a great deal. Even though the power of extension be completely, and that of flexion almost com- pletely recovered from, still the knee-joint and lower limb are apt to remain weaker and less fitted for active work. The causes of unfavour- able results after healing are attributed to (1) contraction of quadriceps; (2) atrophy of this muscle ; (3) effusion of blood into the knee-joint, causing separation of fragments, and in rare cases organisation of clot and ankylosis ; (4) low degree of vascularity of patella and its com- parative lack of ability to form new bone; (5) interposition of bands of aponeurosis derived from the front of the bone which favours liga-