LARYNX, AFFECTIONS OF THE CARTILAGES 370 The cartilages of the larynx, the surfaces of which are covered with perichondrium, are the cricoid, thyroid, two arytenoids, and the yellow fibro-cartilage of the epiglottis. Their various surfaces lie in relation to the interior of the larynx, the oesophagus, the pharynx, and the subcutaneous tissue of the neck. As the in- flammation very rarely attacks the whole larynx, and sometimes only part of one cartilage, the symptoms and signs will vary according to the surface thus affected. Perichondritis may spread from one aspect to the other, so that an inflammation of the thyroid cartilage, which may in the first instance be entirely extra- laryngeal, may later involve its deep surface. Further, the disease may spread from one cartilage to another, and even to the upper rings of the trachea. The arytenoid cartilages are most frequently affected, probably from the fact that tubercular ulceration is most common in that region; the cricoid cartilage occupies the second position in order of frequency. It occurs more frequently in males. The disease may be of primary origin, or secondary to a pre-existing laryngeal lesion. A few cases of primary aftection have been recorded to which no definite cause could be assigned. It is probable that some of these cases at any rate were of the nature of a local septic infection. Perichondritis is much more frequently a secondary affection, and occurs in the course of tubercular, syphilitic, and malignant disease of the larynx. It is also the common form of the laryngeal complication which arises in typhoid fever, and it is met with also in smallpox, scarlet fever, and diphtheria. Further, it may be secondary to deep-seated suppuration in the neck, or originate as a metastatic abscess in acute general septic con- ditions. Perichondritis may also be of traumatic origin, occurring after cut throat or other wounds of the larynx, or as a sequel to scalds and the action of corrosive irritants. It may follow the lodgment of foreign bodies, or the frequent introduction or retention of oesophageal tubes, while more than one author considers that the pressure of the larynx against the bodies of the cervical vertebrae in the prolonged dorsal decubitus of old people may set up an inflam- mation of this nature. Inflammation of the perichondrium is charac- terised in its earlier stages by small cell infiltra- tion and thickening of the fibrous covering, and by serous exudation beneath it, while a considerable amount of oedema may permeate the surrounding submucous tissue. Subse- quently pus forms under the perichondrium, and as the cartilage thus becomes deprived of its nourishment, necrosis and separation in whole or in part may result. When the abscess thus formed breaks through the mucous membrane the pus is discharged into the larynx, pharynx, or oesophagus, or even externally under the skin, according to the situation of the perforation. In the latter event a fistula is formed, a condi- tion which may be still further complicated by the occurrence of subcutaneous emphysema. The necrosed cartilage may be coughed up or discharged through the fistulous opening. In milder forms of the inflammation no suppuration and destruction of cartilage takes place, but the perichondrium becomes thickened in con- sequence of the formation of new fibrous con- nective tissue. As a result of these inflammatory changes considerable cicatrisation, permanent thickening, and deformity take place with consequent stenosis of the larynx. Another important sequela of perichondritis of the arytenoid or cricoid cartilages, and one of con- siderable clinical importance, is anchylosis of the crico-arytenoid joint, with impaired mobility or complete fixation of one or both vocal cords; this subject will presently be referred to in more detail. Symptoms and Signs.—The local symptoms met with are hoarseness and aphonia, cough, pain, difficulty in swallowing, and finally dyspnoea, all of them symptoms which may occur in other conditions. They vary, however, and are considerably modified according to the severity of the attack and the site of the lesion. In the acute cases a considerable amount of constitutional disturbance occurs. If the in- flammation attacks the laryngeal surface of the thyroid cartilage, interference with the voice is an early symptom ; but if the arytenoids are affected, dysphagia in addition is complained of If the lesion is confined to the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage or the epiglottis, diffi- culty in swallowing may be the only symptom Dyspnoea usually occurs in the later stages of perichondritis, when the swelling becomes marked; but it must be borne in mind that sudden dyspnoea may supervene even in the early stages of thyroid and cricoid perichon dritis. The detection of fragments of cartilage in the sputum renders the diagnosis certain If the inflammation is confined to the external surface of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, as may be the case in the early stages of certain cases, swelling in the neck and pain with in creased tenderness on palpation may be the only indications of the local condition. The laryngoscopic appearances also vary con siderably. If the arytenoid cartilage is affected there is considerable swelling in that region which in some cases closely resembles the pear- shaped mass seen in tubercle of the larynx. If the posterior part of the cricoid is at the same time involved, thickening of the posterior laryn- geal wall is especially noticeable. There may be impaired movement or complete immobility of one or both vocal cords. A small yellow spot upon the mucous surface is an indication that the abscess is pointing. Should this al- ready have burst, the pus may be visible. If a probe can be successfully introduced into the