JACKSONIAN EPILEPSY 51 panied by unconsciousness ; it was first described by J. Hughlings Jackson. See Brain, Tumours OP {Symptoms, Convulsions) ; Brain, Surgery OF {Intracranial Inflammation, Leptomeningitis); Hysteria {Hysterical Convulsions, Diagnosis); Physiology, Nervous System {Cerebrum, Dis- charging Mechanisni). JaCObSOn'S Nerve. *See Fifth Nerve; Olosso-Pharyngeal Nerve ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth, Parotid Gland). Jacquemier's Test.—The presence of a purple discoloration of the vulvar and vaginal mucous membrane, used as an indication of the existence of pregnancy. See Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Vagina and Ex- tenvxl Genitals). Jactation or Jactitation.—A rest^ less tossing about, seen in fevers and after ex- cessive haemorrhage {e.g. post-partum bleeding). Jaeg^er's Test-Types. See Eye, Clinical Examination of (Visual Acuity). Jaffe'S Test. See Urine, Pathological ■Changes in {Indicaiiuria, Detection). Jail Fever. See Typhus Fever {History). Jalap. See also Pharmacology ; Purga- tives ; etc.—Jalapa, the dried tuberous root of Ipomoea purga, a native of Mexico. It contains two resins, jalapin and convolvulin, neither of which is used by itself therapeutically. The root should contain 9 to 11 per cent of the resins. Dose—5-20 grs. Preparations—1. Extractum Jalapse. Dose—2-8 grs. 2. Pulvis Jalapse Compositus. Dose — 20-60 grs. 3. Tinctura JalapEe. Dose — -|-1 3. 4. Jalapse Resina. Dose—2-5 grs. Jalap is contained in Pulvis Scammonii Compositus, and jalap resin in Pilula Scammonii Compositus. Jalap is a powerful hydragogue purgative, and causes a large outpouring of fluid into the intestinal canal, and a copious watery evacuation about four hours after administration. It does not gripe so much as scammony. It is given when- ever it is desired to withdraw large quantities of fluid from the body, notably for the relief of dropsy of any origin. It is an excellent cathartic to employ in many cases of Bright's disease, in ursemia, in eclampsia, and in general plethora with cerebral congestion. It must be used with great caution in old or feeble people, and is contraindicated when gastric or intestinal irritation is present. James's Powder.—Pulvis antimonialis is the official substitute for this powder; it consists of antimonious oxide, 1 part, and calcium phosphate, 2 parts; the dose is from 3 to 6 grains. See Antimony. Janet's iVIettlOd.—The treatment of gonorrhoea by irrigation. Jan icepS or J an US.—The teratological type in which the double monster has a single head with two faces, placed opposite to each other; both faces may be perfect {J. teleus), one may be imperfect {J. ateleus), e.g. one may have a single median eye {J. cyclopus). See Teratology. Japan. See Balneology {Vap)our Bath; Thermal Waters); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Shima Mushi, River Fever). JariSCil'S Ointment.—An ointment containing 60 grains of pyrogallic acid to the ounce of lard ; it is used in chronic psoriasis. See Pyrogallic Acid. Jasminum. See Gelsemii Radix; Toxicology {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Gelsemium). Jaundice. Definition ...... 52 Causation . . . . . .52 Pathology ...... 52 Tox^EMic or HjEmohepatogenous Jaun- dice— Clinical Character's and Diagnosis . 53 Obstructive Jaundice— Signs ...... 54 Symptoms ..... 55 Diagnosis of Jaundice from other Conditions ..... 55 Causes and Differential Diagnosis of Obstructive Jaundice . . .56 Prognosis of Jaundice .... 58 Treatment ...... 59 Jaundice of Phosphorus Poisoning . 60 See also Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease {Diagjiosis, Urobilin Jaundice); Anesthesia, Chloroform {After-Management, Jau/ndice); Ascites {Recognition of Cause); Blackwater Fever {Symptoms); Gall-Bladder and Bile Duct, Diseases of {Cholelithiasis, Cholangitis, Tumours of Bile Ducts); H^emoglobinuria ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {General Pathology, Secondary Condi- tions, Jaundice); Icterus ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable and Floating Kidney, Intermittent Jaundice); Labour, Operations {Induction of Premature Labour, Indications); Liver, Diseases of {Hepatoptosis; Cirrhosis, Signs of; Hepatic Tuberculosis; Weil's Disease; Perihepatitis; Hypercemia and Menstrual Jaundice); Mumps {Complications); Nephritis {Renal Cirrhosis); New-born Infant {Diseases, Icterus Neonatorum); Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovariotomy, Complications following); Pan- creas, Diseases of {Pancreatitis, Chronic, Malignant Disease of Pancreas); Phosphorus ; Pneumonia, Clinical {Complications, Jaundice); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications