LABOUR, FAULTS IN THE PASSENGER 246 (2) Those in which two foetuses are loosely connected. (3) Those in which two foetuses are closely connected. In (1) there are two heads more or less fiised together (double-faced monster); or else the pelvis and lower extremities are duplicated. If seen early in labour, when the whole hand can be passed into the uterus, these conditions can be made out. A double head should be per- forated ; if there are two separate heads, one of them should be cut off. A reduplicated pelvis should be divided into portions with large scissors or a sharp hook. In (2), the connection between the foetuses being loose, labour is seldom seriously impeded, and any difficulty which may arise is of the same nature as those encountered in locking of twins and must be dealt with on similar lines. It is necessary, however, to make a com- plete diagnosis between " double monster " and "locked twins," in order to avoid destruction of both twins when ^t might be possible to save one alive. This remark also applies to class (3), in which the most difficult cases are likely to occur. The rule most generally applicable is to bring down the feet of one foetus, and then pro- ceed to embryotomy as circumstances may direct. Playfair's classification of conjoined twins is also useful. It is as follows : — (1) Two foetuses united more or less com- pletely face to face by thorax or by abdomen. (2) Two foetuses united back to back by the lower portion of the spinal column. (3) Dicephalous monsters with single body and two heads. (4) Two sepai'ate bodies, the heads more or less united. Out of thirty-one cases collected by Playfair, twenty labours ended spontaneously, and par- turition was fatal to the mother in only one case. Pelvic presentations were the most favourable, and turning was several times successful. Accidental Complications affecting the Child only Abnormalities of the Cord— Pi^eseiitation and Prolapse 246 Knots of the Cord 249 Coils of the Coi'd 249 Torsion of the Cord . 249 Puptnre . . . . 249 Undue Shortness of . 250 Pressure on the Cord 250 Prolapse op the Arm . 250 Dorsal Displacement of the Arm 250 Prolapse of the foot . 251 Injury to the Fcetus during Labour . 251 Still-Birth . . . . 251 A. Abnormalities of the Cord (i.) Presentation and Prolapse.—These are by far the most important complications, not only on account of their frequency, but because of the serious effect on the life of the child. The umbilical cord is a somewhat slender connecting line between the placenta and the fcetus, by means of which the nutrition of the child is maintained during pregnancy and parturition. Under the normal conditions of intra-uterine life the cord lies in a place of safety, free from injury and undue pressure, on the ventral aspect of the foetus. Should it depart from this position, and come to lie over the present- ing part, serious danger to the child will arise. It is important to clearly distinguish between the terms " presentation " and " prolapse " of the cord. " Presentation of the cord" is the term applied to those cases in which the um- bilical cord can be felt lying over the presenting part of the foetus, and in which the membranes are unruptured. The term " prolapse of the cord" is used for those cases in which the membranes are ruptured, and the cord projects through the cervix or descends into the vagina, or even appears at the vulva. If in any case the condition known as presentation of the cord is not recognised, the more serious complication of prolapse is certain to follow so soon as the membranes rupture. All cases of prolapse of the cord are not necessarily preceded by pre- sentation. In some cases the abnormal position of the cord occurs quite suddenly at the time of rupture, and in other cases the cord is gradually extruded during the j^rogress of labour along the side of the presenting part. The cord may form a tense band over the presenting part, or it may descend as a loop through the cervix into the vagina. Freqitenty.—The frequency of prolapse of the cord appears to vary considerably, judging from the statistics obtained from the different mater- nity institutions in this country and abroad. According to Spiegelberg it occurs once in 86 cases. In the Dublin Rotunda Maternity the frequency was 1 in 200 cases. In other British maternity institutions it seems to be a less frequent complication, occurring about once in every 400 or 500 cases. Simpson has suggested that the increased frequency of pro- lapse in the German schools may be due to the dorsal position in which the parturient women are delivered. In this position the long axis of the uterus forms an angle of about 30° with the vertical, and the action of gravity would there- fore assist the descent of the cord. In the left lateral posture, however, the long axis of the uterus is horizontal, and the fundus may be even on a lower level than the cervix, con- sequently there would be no tendency for the cord to descend towards the lower segment of the uterus under normal conditions of the fcetus and pelvis. Causes.—Where the pelvis is of normal size, the child presenting with the vertex, and the muscular wall of the uterus not unduly lax,