107 KIDNEY tion, and even renal colic in 8 per cent of the cases, but in a less marked degree. The haemorrhage is, however, much brighter, more dependent on cold than jolting; the urine is murky, lightish in colour, lower in specific gravity, and contains tubercle bacillus and pus corpuscles. The patient is not forced to sleep on the painful kidney; in fact, the opposite side to it may be selected for the sake of relief. Early pyrexia is not absolutely reliable in the early stages, but it is a valuable indication of destruction and absorption of tuberculous pro- ducts, and characteristic, if it follows bimanual examination or prolonged exertion. Usually in nine months to a year vesical irritation and penile pain appear consequent upon descending infection. Renal tubercle consecutive to a vesical source is invariably preceded by irritability of the bladder and meatal pain after micturition. Renal tubercle consecutive to a primary epi- didymal tubercule is easily recognised by the knot in the globus minor of the same side, and in most cases by a knot in the corresponding prostatic lobe or seminal vesicle. (2) Ascending mild septic pyelitis—induced by irrigation of a tuberculous or otherwise inflamed bladder—is a fruitful source of renal pain without colic. It simulates pelvic stone very closely. (3) Bends of the ureter from movable kidney, narrowing of ureteric tube near the pelvic orifice, have also to be considered. These may give rise not only to renal pain, but also to colic. Frequency of micturition in the day, but not at night, is often marked in these cases. (4) Interstitial shrinking nephritis produces occasionally unilateral renal pain and hsemor- rhage, the pain being apparently capsular and not due to changes in the pelvis. (5) Stone lodged in the lower ureter near the bladder should be always carefully excluded by rectal and vaginal and vesical examination. A stone lodged in any part of the upper two- thirds of the ureter excites symptoms almost exactly similar to those which a stone in the renal pelvis would evoke, whilst a stone in the lower third simulates ovarian or uterine trouble (Sunderland). Treatment (Medical).—Two main objects are to be aimed at—increasing the volume of urine and diminishing its acidity. The former is best attained by the patient taking large quantities of rain water, boiled water, distilled water, but better still by the use of such waters as Contrexville, Vittel, Wildungen, Kronenquelle. All these latter are best taken warm, two hours before breakfast, and accompanied by gentle exercise. If pus is present such drugs as boric acid, benzoate of ammonia, and sandal oil are of use. In the uric acid type, piperazine, lysidine, urotropine are valuable. In the oxalate of lime an attempt should be made to fill in and smooth over the sharp crystals which project from the surface (cp. clinical note on surface) by over-alkalinising the urine. Lime phosphate is thus deposited on the stone. To this end bicarbonate of soda, the benzoates, and lithia salts should be employed. The good effects of glycerine are testified to by Hermann, Richter, and Ravaldini, but the reason for its action in expelling gravel is unknown; one or two ounces are given in an equal amount of water twice a day. The remedy is still on its trial. The treatment of renal colic resolves itself into relieving pain, diminishing ureteric spasm, and increasing the flow of urine. It is asserted that a spasm can be aborted or relieved by tilting the patient on his head and massaging the ureter upwards. The older remedies, how- ever, suffice : hot baths, subcutaneous injection of morphia, inhalation of chloroform. Albarran records a case in which he cut a nephritic colic abruptly short by passing a ureteric catheter and by washing out the pelvis of the kidney. If the usual treatment for the relief of stone fails to cure the patient within twelve months, the question of operative interference should be considered. Advice to Patients concerniiig Operation.—On three separate counts may the medical adviser be forced to tender advice to his patient con- cerning the expediency or necessity of operative interference for supposed renal calculus. {a) The patient may demand relief from pain or from recurrent attacks of colic. {b) The practitioner notices that the urine is changing its sterile nature for puriform or septic characters. (r;) Sudden suppression of urine may super- vene in a patient with renal calculus symptoms, and immediate relief be urgently needed. (a) Should renal pain be so constant and so severe as to cripple the patient, or should renal colic recur so frequently as to hamper the patient's pursuits, and should therapeutics have failed to relieve within reasonable time, say twelve months, an exploratory operation should be advised. It is hardly necessary to hesitate on the score of uncertainty as to whether stone is, or is not present. In the absence of tubercle and carcinoma the mere exploration of the kidney surface through a loin incision and free separation of the fatty capsule, even if no stone is discovered, will effectually relieve if not cure the patient of the pain induced by kink or bend of ureter, by slight dilatation of the pelvis from narrowing of the pelvic orifice of the ureter and by interstitial shrinking nephritis. This is probably due to fixation of the kidney and straightening and splinting of the ui-eteric tube