LABOUR, STAGES AND DURATION 167 instead of—as may be the case—to the increas- ing size of the caput. (For Management, see p. 194.) Third Stage.—Duration.—The third stage commences with the birth of tlie foetus, and ends with the expulsion of the after-birth. It is impossible to estimate its average duration, as the latter depends entirely upon the manner in which the stage is conducted. If the ex- pulsion of the placenta is left to the natural efforts, the average duration is from two to three hours. If, however, the usual method is adopted of waiting until the placenta is detached by the uterine contractions and expelled into the vagina, and then expressing it after the Dublin method, the average duration of the stage is from ten to fifteen minutes. Phenomena.—The principal phenomena of the third stage are the continuance of intermittent contractions and permanent retraction of the uterine muscle fibre, the detachment of the placenta, and the expulsion of the latter, first from the contractile segment of the uterus into the lower uterine segment or the vagina, and then from the latter position externally. It is most convenient to consider the third stage as consisting of two periods. In the first period, the placenta is detached and expelled below the contraction ring; in the second period, it is driven outside the genital passages. The mechanism by which the placenta is detached from the uterus is still a matter of some dispute. The most commonly accepted theory is that of Schultze. He considered that the placenta was first partially detached owing to the shrinkage of the placental site, which occurs as the uterus contracts down after the birth of the foetus; that then blood escaped from the iiterine vessels into the retro-placental space thus formed, and constituted a hfematoma, the pressure of which completed the detachment of the placenta and drove the latter downwards into the membranes with its foetal surface lying- lowest. As a result, the placenta is the first part of the secundines to leave the uterus, and, subsequently, as it descends still farther, it pulls the membranes after it and so causes their detachment. Matthews Duncan, on the other hand, considered that the placenta after its detachment was expelled from the uterus with its lower border first, and that it passed through the contraction ring as a button goes through a button-hole. Its expulsion with the smooth foetal surface forwards, he considered to be due to premature traction upon the cord. Schultze's mechanism usually occurs in about three- quarters of all cases, but then there is frequently a slight amount of traction upon the cord during the birth of the child. The Edinburgh school, in the persons of Hart and Barbour, brings forward two theories as to the cause of placental separation and expulsion, which differ from the foregoing. Barbour considers that he has proved that the placental site can be reduced to a space of 4| in. X 4 in., without causing the separation of the placenta ; he also considers that if the uterus contracts firmly down upon the placenta it will tend to expel the latter, and during this process separation will naturally occur. Accordingly, he attributes the separation of the placenta to the diminution of the placental site to an area less than 4i in. x 4 in., plus the action of the uterus as a whole on the placental mass. Hart, on the other hand, while agreeing that the main cause of the separation of the placenta is disproportion between its area and the area of the placental site, considers that the cause of the disproportion is, not the placental site be- coming smaller than the placental area, but its becoming larger than the latter. His reason for his belief is as follows: so long as the placenta has either or both its blood supplies from the maternal or foetal vessels intact, it can diminish or increase in size pari 2Mssu with the portion of uterine wall to which it is attached. When, however, the supply from both mother and foetus is cut ofi^, the placenta can diminish pa7i 2}C'SSu with the uterine wall, but cannot again expand as the wall relaxes. Consequently, separation occurs during the relaxations of the uterus which occur in the third stage after the foetal circulation has ceased—owing to the ligation of the cord or other cause, and after the maternal supply has been cut off" by the retraction of the uterus. The descent of the placenta below the con- traction ring, i.e. the commencement of the second period of the third stage, can be recog- nised by certain changes which take place (Figs. 13 and 14). They are as follows :— (1) The Funis lengthens.—As the placenta Fig. 13.—Before the expulsion of the placenta (diagrammatic). leaves the uterus and comes to lie in the vagina, the cord will also descend, and there will be an increase in the length of the portion which is outside the vulva. This increase in length will be most easily recognised if, when tying the cord, the ligature which is placed next the mother is tied as close to the vulva as possible.