LIFE INSURANCE 418 although it almost invariably occurs in persons of a gouty diathesis. Such cases, however, are more to be reckoned as cases of gout than of true diabetes, and are to be considered more from the gouty point of view than from that of diabetes. The mere presence of albumin in the urine is not now considered to be sucli an invariable in- dication of Bright's disease of the kidneys as it used to be. It is well known that persons apparently in good health may have albumin present in their urine, at least temporarily. The presence of tube-casts in the urine along with the albumin points very clearly to Bright's disease; but in cases where no indication of Bright's disease other than the presence of albumin in the urine is present, it is rather diffi- cult deciding whether the life ought to be ac- cepted or not. The urine of such cases, passed at different times in the day, should be examined on various occasions to ascertain whether the albumin is constantly present or not. Some- times the albumin may be—(1) paroxysmal, i.e. it occurs at intervals separated by considerable periods during which there is no albumin present; (2) it may appear only after certain articles of diet; (3) it may appear after muscular exertion, the urine being normal when the body is at rest; (4) the urine may always be albuminous, but the albumin is in small quantities and not influenced by food or exercise. It is difficult being definite as to how such cases ought to be treated by insurance companies. True paroxys- mal albuminuric cases ovight not to be loaded to any great extent, if at all; but if albumin is constantly present even in persons otherwise apparently healthy a certain amount of loading should be imposed, and in some cases, where the life otherwise has something unfavourable, such as a family or personal history of gout, the life should be rejected. Albuminuria is often associated with the gouty diathesis, and the presence of albumin in the urine of persons of sedentary habits, such as those who lead a confined life in the city with little exercise and good living, is often associated with other crystalline deposits in the urine and troubles of digestion. Dr. Kingston Fox states that such cases may be accepted unless the albumin is very abundant or the crystals very large, in which case treatment becomes necessary before acceptance. Dr. Bewley's opinion is, I think, a safer one, viz., " that the inactive habit of life, over-eating, and gouty tendency noted in these cases prevent us looking on them as first-class lives." In addition to these different causes of albuminuria there may be albumin present in the urine from heart disease, and after fevers, as, for instance, scarlet fever, diphtheria, and accidentally from dis- charges into the urinary passages. In the first, the heart disease would render the life uninsurable ; in the second, the proposal should be postponed for six months or a year to ascertain whether the albumin is permanent; and in the last cases the nature and source of the discharge would decide whether the life was insurable or not. Diseases of the Nervous System.—Most of the organic nervous diseases render lives uninsur- able. The most common diseases of the brain and spinal cord are those which come on in later life, such as paralysis due to haemorrhage, embolism, and thrombosis, and are usually associated with degenerative changes in the heart and blood-vessels. They are one of the most fruitful causes of death in later life, and hence candidates for assurance after middle life should be specially examined as to the state of their vascular system, and in this connection a history of gout and rheumatism is of great importance. A distinct history of insanity in a family should also be looked upon as an unfavourable factor in a life, and in this con- nection a history of intemperance in the family and in the individual should be specially inquired into, and considered along with the habits and occupation of the proposer. How candidates for assurance with suppura- tive disease of the middle ear ought to be dealt with has been much discussed. The consensus of opinion of the many specialists who took part in the discussion of this subject at the British Medical Association meeting in Edinburgh, in 1898, seemed to be that there are some cases which shoidd be admitted at ordinary rates, or with a slightly increased premium, and some should be rejected. Cases of old-standing suppuration, where the discharge has completely or almost completely ceased, with no attacks of pain, may be admitted at the usual rates. Cases where there is a fair- sized perforation, with little discharge and no attacks of pain, may also be admitted at the ordinary rates. In judging of the amount of risk, attention should be paid to the size and situation of the perforation in the membrane. If small and high up, the risks are greater. If the discharge is copious and foetid, the risks are also greater (M'Bride). Cases where there are granulations or polypi, or where there is a small perforation and offensive discharge, should not be admitted without special treatment. If the result of the treatment is satisfactory the proposal may be admitted at an increased or even the ordinary rate, according to the degree of improvement in the condition. In cases having a recurrence of attacks of pain the proposal should be rejected. Where there is evidence of the existence of suppuration in the mastoid cells, or of caries or necrosis of the bones in any part of the ear, or where there are exostoses or cholesteatomata of the middle ear interfering with free discharge, proposals should be rejected.