INVALID FEEDING 17 2 Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan ; whisk until they boil; remove to the side of the fire when the scum begins to rise to the top. Cover the top of the pan with a plate, and allow it to stand fifteen minutes. Strain through a hot jelly cloth, run through three or four times till clear, and when cold mould in a scalded wet mould. Whipped Jelly.—Melt the jelly by standing the basin containing it in a saucepan of hot water. When dissolved, put into a large basin and with a whisk whip it until it is quite cold and should become a firm froth and perfectly cold. By varying the ingredients in the wine jelly a good many different forms can be obtained, e.g.— Port Wine Jelly.—Take 3 gills port wine, 1 gill water, and 1 table-spoonful of red- currant jelly instead of the sherry wine, lemon juice, and the large amount of water. Orange and Lemon Jellies, are made by sub- stituting orange or lemon juice for the wine. Suggested Dietary for a Convalescent As it is important for the practitioner to be ever ready with suggestions as to what indi- vidual patients may partake of, the following is a suggested dietary for five days. Doubtless in many cases a more rapid return to ordinary diet could be made, while in others the changes would require to be more gradually effected. The patient is supposed to have reached the stage when he is able to digest milk puddings when taken in moderation. For bread-stuffs—thin slices of toast, the crusty portion of a Vienna roll, sweetened and unsweetened rusks, toasted sponge finger biscuits, rice biscuits, and plain biscuits may be recom- mended. As the patient advances, eggs, fish, sweet- breads, chicken, small birds, rabbit, game, follow one another. Then come mince, beef quenelles, eye of a tender mutton chop, a tender slice from a joint or steak. The patient should always be reminded of the necessity of eating slowly and masticating well. Vegetables must be cautiously allowed at first. All meals should be very simple. Is* Day 7 a.m.—If awake early.—A small cup of freshly-made tea with cream, and small half slice toast. 8.30 „ -Srea^/as*.—Saucerful of oatmeal gruel with cream, and a little piece of Vienna roll—crusty part. 11.30 „ A teacupful of beef tea un- thickened, either hot or cold. 1 P.M.—Steamed whiting; half slice of bread. Semolina or ground rice pudding. 4 P.M.—Potash and milk with rice biscuit or sponge cake. A little fruit. 6.30 ,, Benger's food in any form (see p. 9). 9 ,, Some variety of meat tea or infusion. Ind Day 8 A.M.—Saucerful of hominy porridge or barley meal gruel, etc. A small cup of tea, toast, and a very little butter. 11.30 „ A teacup of chicken tea or a little fruit. 1.30 P.M.—Baked or steamed fish (p. 18). Spinach. Blanc-mange. 4 ,, Potash and milk, or a small cup of fresh tea, bread and butter, and sponge cake. 6.30 „ Invalid food, or peptonised cocoa and milk. 9 „ Some variety of meat infusion. Zrd Day 8 A.M.—A lightly boiled egg. A small cup of tea. 11.30 „ A teacup of soup, or a little fruit and a drink of milk and potash. 1.30 P.M.—^Rabbit. Chicken, roast—2 slices from breast. Pigeon, served with bread sauce. A small helping of vegetable (not potato). (Stewed vegetable marrow.) Pudding. Apples (cooked) and water sago, eaten with cream. 4 „ A small cup of tea, bread and butter, and biscuit. 6.30 „ Invalid food. 9 „ Some variety of soup. \th Day 8 A.M.—A piece of boiled or steamed haddock, whiting, or sole. Tea, bread or toast and butter. 11 ,, Soup or egg drink. 1.30 P.M.—Sweetbread or tripe. Vegetable. Stewed tomato (do not eat skins). Stewed fruit with custard. 4 ,, Afternoon tea (avoiding rich cakes and pastry). 6 ,, Poached egg on toast or spinach. Milk and potash. 9 ,, Cup of soup. bth Day 8 A.M.—A few rolls of well-fried streaky bacon. Toast and tea. VOL. V