105 KIDNEY nephritis. This is at first localised to the neighbourhood of the irritating body. In course of time most stones evoke inflammatory resentment in the mucous membrane, and pyelitis, pyelonephritis, perinephritis ensue. Eighty per cent of the patients who die from renal calculus do so in consequence of sup- puration (Dickinson). 2. Obstructed Outlet.—Should, however, the stone be so buried near the orifice, or so situated as to abut upon or periodically to obstruct the outlet of the pelvis and the due egress of the secretion, serious back pressure changes will inevitably result, e.g. dilatation of pelvis (hydro- nephrosis) and atrophy of gland ; and if septicity be grafted on these conditions, the destruction of inflammation is severe and serious. {d) The Remissions, Intermissions, and latent Periods of Stone-Pain.—To the discredit of the original diagnosis, but to the relief of the patient, the pain of renal stone—like all other diseases of the urinary mucous membrane—is subject to extraordinary remissions. The pain may be absent or hardly noticeable for weeks, months, even years, and this without apparent cause ; nay more, the suffering may end entirely. I have seen patients free for eight, twelve, or fifteen years from any symptom of a stone which had originally caused intolerable suffer- ing ; and at the end of these periods pain has recurred and become so violent as to necessitate operation. The theory is that the stone becomes fixed by adhesions in a hoUowed-out calyx, or fixed by branches, or that the kidney may become in- active and even shrivel. It is to be remembered that an inert kidney which is void of all secret- ing power may still preserve its size and outline, may still be painful or become the seat of pain, may still be liable to inflammatory attacks, and may still pour pus down the ureter into the bladder. (e) The Pathological Changes in the opposite Kidney.—It is highly probable that these depend greatly on the character of the calculus. When it is an oxalate of lime calculus the opposite kidney, as a general rule, does not form stone for many years—often not at all. In fact, the excess of depositable oxalate appears to find the easiest exit by the affected kidney, and a readier nidus in the original stone. In the uratic group the same rule holds, but only in a lesser degree. It is not uncommon to find first one kidney and then the other produce and expel a small uric acid stone. When, however, one has formed and become imprisoned, the surplus of uratic material is attracted for some time to that as a nucleus, and the opposite kidney remains free for years. In course of years the opposite gland commences and continues to form uratic stone, so that the operator must be prepared to deal with stone and its consequences in both kidneys when there has been a prolonged history of uric acid urine with symptoms of unilateral renal stone. Fifty per cent of renal stones are bilateral. In my opinion the real danger appears after the onset of those suppurative changes which the original calculus excites. The healthy opposite kidney is habitually irritated and gradually deteriorated by the stress thrown upon it of eliminating special renal toxins derived by ab- sorption from the suppurating foci of its diseased fellow-gland. In addition to this the healthy kidney is liable to ascending inflammatory changes from a bladder distressed by a constant flow of pyelitic urine. A decrease of functional activity and increased sensitiveness to shock or reflex inhibition is in either case gradually acquired, and this constitutes the greatest element of danger to the patient when colics are suffered from {cp. calculous anuria, or when nephrolithotomy is performed). The theory of " reflex nephritis " (Simon), which is accepted to account for these changes, is, in my opinion, untenable as well as unnecessary. Etiology.—Injudicious diet {e.g. rhubarb and "hard" water in limestone districts, tending to form lime oxalates), sedentary habits, mental exhaustion, exposure to cold, inherited tendency to gravel, are all powerful factors in the deposi- tion of calculous material. Symj)tomatology.—There is one symptom— that of pain—which should be considered in detail before the classical symptoms of the complaint are alluded to, for it often aiTords the medical attendant a valuable clue to prognosis and even treatment. Pain.—There are two main positions and forms of pain :— The unilateral renal pain, and ureteric spasm (renal colic). They may be observed separately or coexist. A. The Unilateral Renal Pain Group.—The maximum of pain is in the kidney region; the area can be covered by the patient's hand, the pain being both behind and in front—more behind. It may vary from an occasional dull ache, the outcome of mere congestion or irrita- tion of a crystal-charged urine, to that inter- mittent agony which is induced by a rough surfaced calculus or to that constant suffering produced by a phosphatic-covered stone moulded to an abraded and inflamed pelvis. It is usually moderate, though exacerbated by exercise, jolt- ing, jarring, local pressure, or injudicious diet. During the acute attacks the pain may radiate along the ureter to the groin, testes, or to the thigh, calf of leg, and foot. When moderate the pain can often be covered with the thumb pressed into the angle which the last rib builds with the erector spinse muscle; any percussion of the spine or succussion of the body will cause in some cases a cutting pain to be felt in this position (.Jordan-Lloyd). 'I'llj It sometimes happens in the acid group that the pain of the calculus may subside altogether