295 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—EMBRYOTOMY trunk can be doubled together, and may be ex- pelled by the natural efforts aided by pressure from above or traction from below with a hook or cranioclast. On the dead foetus in a phantom it has been found that the basilyst can be made to perforate and tear up the spinal column even more thoroughly than the cutting instruments, and its use as a Spondylolyst is attended with this advantage, that after the vertebrae have been broken the tractor-blade can be at once applied outside the trunk so as to facilitate the extraction of the infant. 5a. Cleidotomy Definition and History . . . 295 Indications 295 Technique . . . . . .296 Advantages . .■ . . . . 296 Definition and Hi&tory.—Cleidotomy, or divi- sion of the clavicles (Ger. Schliisselbeinschnitt), is an operation accessory to craniotomy or basilysis, and has for its object the diminution of the width of the shoulders of the infant in cases of difficult labour. It is possible to imagine cases in which it might be performed as the sole operative procedure, e.g. in broad-shouldered anencephalic foetuses, but I do not know of an instance of this mode of use. No doubt obstetricians in the past, when con- fronted with such an emergency as impaction of the shoulders after birth of the head (either intact or craniotomised), adopted some plan of procedure for the reduction of the width of the bisacromial diameter; but they do not appear to have specialised the manoeuvre into a definite operation, nor to have restricted the embryulcia to the clavicles. Dr. H. R. Spencer, writing in the British Medical Journal (April 13, 1895, p. 808), introduced the operation of cleidotomy, although he did not give it that or any other specific denomination. He said: "It may be necessary to reduce the width of the child's shoulders. With this object, I have found it a useful plan to snip through the clavicles with scissors ; then, if necessary, to pass a blunt hook into the axilla, and then to bring down the arms." He went on to say that he had met with several cases where craniotomy was not sufficient to extract; so it may be concluded that he practised this snipping through of the clavicles on several occasions — "in about five or six cases." Soon after the publication of Spencer's article (which was entitled " On Delivery in Certain Cases of Impaction of the Trunk of the Foetus"), there appeared a contribution from the pen of Professor N. N. PhanomenofF, of Kasan in Russia, named " Zur Frage liber Embryotomie: Uber die Durchschneidung des Schlusselbeins (Cleidotomia)." PhiinomenoiFs article was in the Centralblatt fiir Gyndkologie, xix., p. 585, June 1, 1895. He was led to per- form the operation on account of disproportion between the foetus and the pelvic canals, due rather to great size of the former than to marked contraction of the latter, and more particularly to great size affecting the shoulders. The patient upon whom he operated had a true conjugate diameter of just under four inches. The head of the infant was without much diffi- culty brought down to the perineum by means of forceps, but no further progress could be accomplished; the infant meanwhile died, and PhanomenofF, suspecting wide shoulders impacted in the slightly narrowed maternal pelvis, passed up a pair of scissors above the brim and divided with some short snips ("durchschneidet mit einigen Kurzen Schnitten ") both clavicles near their inner end; and strong traction on the head was now sufficient to bring one of the axillae within reach, and a Braun's hook fixed therein sufficed to complete the delivery. The infant weighed 13 lbs., and the circumference of the shoulders was 41 cms. In the same year (1895) Knorr showed to the Berlin Obstetrical Society an infant upon whom craniotomy, followed immediately by cleido- tomy, had been performed {Ztschr. f. Gehurtsh. u. Gyndh., xxxiv. 105, 1896). The patient was moribund from rupture of the uterus; cranio- tomy was carried out, and the head brought down with a cranioclast; then there being delay in the delivery of the trunk, both clavicles were divided with Siebold's scissors—the result was most astonishing ("der effect war sehr eclatant"), for a slight pull now delivered the trunk. The infant was very large. Strassman published three cases of cleidotomy (two unilateral, one bilateral) in 1897 {Arch. f. Gynaek., liii. 135, 1897), in all of which the operation was preceded by that of craniotomy for large-sized foetus, contracted vagina, and generally contracted pelvis. H. A. V. Guerard {Centralbl. f. Gyndk., xxii. 71, 1898) performed cleidotomy after cranio- tomy for impaction of the head and then of the shoulders at the pelvic outlet, the distance between the tubera ischii being only 5'2 cm. (2 in.). Other contributions to the subject of cleidotomy have been made by E. Bonnaire {Presse medicale, No. 21, p. 125, 1900), by G. Kallinowsky (Diss, inaug., Berlin, 1898), by Rieznikoff (Yuzhno^-ussk. med. gaz., Odessa, v. 425, 1896), by Perondi {Clin, ostet., Roma, ii. 133, 1900), and by myself {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc, xxvi. p. 24, Nov. 1900). Indications.—The indications for the operation of cleidotomy can hardly be said to be as yet quite clearly defined. It has not yet been per- formed, so far as I know, upon the living infant, although there are circumstances in which it might be justifiable to do so, e.g. in the cases of monstrosities such as anencephalus, double terata, etc. It is generally to be carried out as a sequel to the operation of craniotomy or basilysis, but it may be required apart from these other pro- cedures. The indications may be roughly