FEEDING 14 INVALID Thich Beef Tea (a) I pint of made beef tea. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-spoonful Groult's tapioca. Warm the beef tea and sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring all the time. Let it simmer slowly by the side of the fire for about ten minutes until the tapioca turns quite clear. Beat up the yolk of an egg in a basin or cup with a foi'k ; pour the beef tea gradually over it, stirring all the time, and it is ready for serving. {b) \ pint of made beef tea. I tea-spoonful of arrowroot. 1 table-spoonful cold water. Mix the arrowroot and water in a small basin imtil quite smooth. Tlien add it to beef tea that is being warmed in a pan, stir well for a few minutes to prevent it becoming lumpy. Then simmer slowly for ten minutes. Beef-Tea Gruel 1 table-spoonful fine oatmeal. I gill cold water. 1 gill beef tea. Salt. Make tiie gruel with oatmeal and water, or milk, as above. When cooked add to it the beef tea, stir until quite hot, but do not boil. Season to taste and serve hot. Beef Puree \ pint of good beef tea. \ lb. lean juicy meat. Warm in a pan the beef tea that is already made. Wipe and shred very finely \ lb. of meat, pound it well, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Take a cup and make it thoroughly hot; into the cup put the pounded meat, pour the hot beef tea on to it, stir it well up, and serve at once. Beef Essence.—One pound of meat will make one gill of essence. Prepare meat as in last recipe, shredding it down very finely. Place in a jar with a pinch of salt, cover with a strong piece of greased kitchen paper. Place the jar in a saucepan containing sufficient cold water to reach fully half-way up the jar, and let it steam slowly for four to five hours. AVhen ready, strain through a fine strainer and press the meat well with the back of a wooden spoon to extract all the juice. This liquid is thus pure beef juice. When cold, this is in the form of a jelly. Meat Jtiices.—This variety of food differs greatly in nutritive value from those extracts previously mentioned. The meat juice is ex- tracted without any heat, and thus a large portion of the albumin is present. Brand's, Valentine's, and Wyeth's meat juices are all excellent preparations, and are to most people very palatable. Raw meat juice can be prepared in the following manner; its great drawback is its decidedly objectionable appearance, which can be partially overcome by serving in a red glass or a cup. \ lb. best rump steak. ^ pint cold water. Pinch of salt or sugar to taste. Prepare the meat in the same way as for Beef Puree. Place the shredded meat in a basin with water and the salt. Stir it well with a fork, cover with a plate, and let it stand f hour, stirring occasionally. The liquid will then be a bright red colour. Strain through a fine strainer, pressing the meat with the back of a wooden spoon. This should only be made in very small quantities, as it very soon becomes rancid. A recent patent preparation prepared by Brand, and termed "Fever Food," is most nutritive ; it consists of essence of beef, eggs, cream. In appearance it resembles custard, and has a very agreeable flavour which is quite distinct from the meaty flavours of the beef juices and extracts. Milk is the staple food in febrile state. If badly borne it may be taken as whey or diluted with Seltzer, soda, or potash water. The fat present in the milk is most useful, and this method of administration of fat is practically the only one available, as such patients have usually a marked intolerance of other forms of fat. In cases with intestinal weakness, e.;/. typhoid fever and the like, the milk must be prevented forming too hard and tough a curd, and the measures suggested to remedy this should be carried out (p. 6). Diet during Convalescence As the digestive tract is more or less involved in all cases of acute illness, convalescents may all be regai-ded as dyspeptics for the time being. Thus, at first, great care must be taken both in quantity and the quality of the food. However, tlie digestive capacity of convales- cents varies. There is, for instance, the healthy young adult recovering from some sharp attack of an infectious fever, in whom the digestive organs are only weakened, not organically affected. His convalescence is rapid ; he is soon capable of eating and digesting everything, and in this class of case there is no necessity to try and tempt the appetite. The food can be simply prepared, the danger is that the patient will overeat. On the other hand, we may have a delicate child recovering from scarlatina complicated by nephritis. Here it would be