120 KIDNEY clots are not a marked feature at the onset the haemorrhage at first ceases quietly. If clots are abundant at the onset or in the course of the case, the bleeding ceases ahnqMy, and a pain varying from a little uneasiness to distinct localised transient lumbar pain is experienced in the affected kidney, or even clot colic (renal) may be noticed. Cystoscopy will show a long black or decolorised gray clot distending and hanging from the corresponding ureteric orifice. With the expulsion of this corking clot, which is like a worm, the bleeding recommences. Occasionally clot retention is suffered fi'om, and the catheter is necessary. Cancer clumps are rarely found in the clot or urine. Pressure symptoms now arise from mere bulk of tumour, such as sudden varicocele, oedema of one extremity, or of the abdominal wall. Even ascites may ensue. Period of Dissemination. — Sooner or later the capsule of the kidney gives way, and, coinci- dent with the loss of this barrier, diff'used and increased pain is often noticeable, loss of flesh is a marked feature; anorexia and cachexia supervene. Diagnosis is often impossible without direct inspection through a loin or abdominal incision, but the presence of a renal tumour with severe hsematuria is most suspicious of growth. If the diagnosis has to be made upon the clinical grounds of an irregular tumour in the renal region, renal calculus with chronic perinephritis and tuberculosis have to be excluded. Other tumours simulate renal growth. On the left side there is the enlarged spleen; but this is readily distinguished from renal growth by its distinct edge, its notch or notches often, hy a miirmur, or a pulsation, by its creaking fremitus, and the microscopic character of the patient's blood {vide " Blood," vol. i.). Moreover, the gut lies behind it. Hepatic growths are occasionally confusing, but they lack that resonant zone which exists between the vipper margin of a renal tumour and the ribs. It miist be remembered, however, that in the later stages when a i-enal growth fuses with the liver tactile differentiation is impossible. Malignant degeneration of a movable kidney sometimes resembles cancer of the ovary, but it possesses a free upward mobility at first, and pelvic examination is negative. Data for Advice to the Patient and Friends.— In the Child.—Statistics of recovery after nephrectomy for the sarcoma of childhood hardly justify an operation. The only chance of success in the adult is early detection and early nephrectomy. Due stress should be laid upon the following unfavourable symptoms: extensive adhesions, immobility of tumour ; extreme thirst; pressure symptoms, other than varicocele; wasting; cachexia unaccounted for by hsemorrhage; loss of sulphocyanide in the saliva. The operative mortality is between 50 per cent (Guilleman) and 42 per cent (Barth), but individual surgeons have varying success—that of 16-6 per cent being the lowest (Schede, Israel). In my opinion and work the cases in which nephrectomy is most hopeful are those in which haematuria is the onset symptom—those who are operated upon directly the profuse hsema- turia appears. These are cystoscopy cases. Thus I have removed kidneys in which the growth was the size of a small monkey-nut, a walnut, a small fig, having detected the side from which the profuse haemorrhage was issuing by means of cystoscopy. Treatment of the Hematuria.—Instrvr mental.—It is unwise to sound any profuse symptomless hsematuria. Nor is it good practice to wash out the bladder unless clot retention necessitates this procedure. Judicious investigation of those cases without renal tiunour consists in administering Contrexeville water until the urine is blood free, and then examining with the cystoscope with the bladder full of clear urine. This determines the absence of any vesical cause of the haemorrhage. The next step consists in recystoscoping during an attack of haemorrhage; the origin of the blood is thus detected by watching the ureteric efflux. The surgeon should at once proceed to explore and remove the kidney which is bleeding. Nephrotomy may become necessary in a few cases merely to relieve the agonising pain due to tension of a rapidly growing haemorrhagic neoplasm. The relief of the incision into the mass is great, but rapid death (seven days) ensues from septicity. Drugs.—It is better to avoid drugs which tend to arrest haemorrhage by increasing the clotting power of the blood, for this generally leads to aggravation of the distress by inducing clot colic or clot retention. Hot Contrexeville water, taken fasting, or a large dose of potash, is worthy of a trial. It is always to be borne in mind that if the case is inoperative, gentle haemorrhage relieves pain and lessens the term of life. When pain is a marked feature reliance should be placed upon opiates, and no anxiety need be felt about their action on the opposite kidney. ACTINOiMYCOSIS OF THE KiDNEY Actinomycosis may invade the kidney under two conditions. (1) The Jletastatic Form.—This resembles pyaemia in its acute fever, rigors, and secondary abscesses. When a primary lesion is present it is usually about the face or mouth. (2) The Consecutive Form.—This consists in an extension from the intestinal canal, usually the caecum or appendix (Hinglass); 18 in 40 cases of abdominal actinomycosis affect the caecum or appendix (Grill).