LABOUR, INJURIES DURING 266 the sac thus formed, the shock would approxi- mate to the severe shock of " complete " rupture, and that accident would be suspected. Prognosis.—In all cases, probably 60 per cent of the mothers die either from shock or haemorrhage, or at a later stage from septi- csemia, and at least 90 per cent of the children. Froj^h-i/laxis.—Whenever possible, the accou- cheur should satisfy himself that any woman wishing to be attended by him at her approach- ing confinement has not a contracted pelvis. If a cursory abdominal examination and a manual palpation of the pelvic crests do not satisfy him, precise external and internal measurements should be made, and if pelvic contraction be discovered, labour should be prematurely induced at the appropriate date. If not seen till " in labour," examine early, and rectify any malpresentation promptly, and deal at once with any obstruction by version, per- foration, decapitation, or by other indicated operation. If tonic contraction be present, avoid giving ergot or attempting version, but at once evacuate the uterus by forceps, or perforation if the head presents, or by decapita- tion if the lie is transverse. Rupture may be said to occur almost always in cases in which the earlier significance of the physical signs has not been observed or appreciated. T7'eatmenf.—(1) When the inqjture is ^^incom- plete " and there is not much stripping off^ of the peritoneum, antiseptic drainage ^jer vaginam is usually all that is required. Drainage should be eff"ected as follows :—First cai'efuUy wash the external genitals, and gently douche the vagina and the lower end of the rent (the peritoneum being unopened), taking care to allow all the injection to return at once. Drainage may be adopted by means of iodoform (10 per cent) gauze, or by india-rubber tubing. If tubing is used, it should be stitched to the lower end of the rent; but, as a rule, gauze lightly packed into the rent and allowed to loosely fill the vagina and appear at the outlet, is the best drain. It may be possible to suture the vaginal part of the rent if the tear has ex- tended downwards. The gauze may be left in for as long as a week, if the temperature shows that drainage is effectual. If the temperature rises, remove the drain, syringe out the cavity still remaining, and drain again. If the bladder be torn, and the accident were at once dis- covered, an immediate operation might be tried, and a retention catheter tied in ; but, as a rule, it would be best to await the partial healing and contraction of the wound, dealing with it sub- sequently as a secondary operation for vesico- vaginal fistula. (2) When the Rupture is " Com2)lete."—If the child is born, and the placenta has escaped into Douglas's pouch, it can usually be easily re- moved by the hand, with antiseptic precautions, and the case treated by vaginal drainage ; but if the rent is extensive, or there is evidence of internal haemorrhage, and the shock already present be not very severe, abdominal section is indicated. If the child is not already born, and the bulk of it is evidently in the uterus, attempts may be made to extract by forceps; but if this fail, knowing that the child is almost certainly dead, the head should be perforated, or if it be a transverse lie, decapitated, the body being then extracted by the arm, and the head by digital traction on the mouth if the pelvis be normal, or by perforation and crushing if contracted. If the child be in the abdominal cavity, or being partly in the abdominal cavity, is gripped by the uterus, it should be at once removed by abdominal section. If the child be already born, or has been delivered by the accoucheur, let the hand be passed up and the passages carefully examined under ether, so that the extent and nature of the laceration and the indication for treatment can be accu- rately determined upon. In a word, if the rent be very extensive, and haemorrhage is evidently going on, if the child be in the abdominal cavity, or if the bowels protrude, abdominal section is essential; otherwise, as Drs. Herman and Herbert Spencer have recently shown, vaginal gauze drainage is all that is required. The following are the conclusions come to by Dr. Spencer:— In the treatment of rupture of the uterus— (1) Abdoininal section is rarely required, and almost solely in cases where the foetus has passed completely or in great part into the peritoneal cavity. It should be performed rapidly under local infiltration anaesthesia, and shoiild be followed by flushing of the peritoneal cavity with normal salt solution and by suture of the tear, if possible, or, if this be not possible, hy packing the tear with iodoform gauze and draining by the vagina or abdomen. (2) Abdominal hysterectomy is hardly ever necessary; when the broad ligaments are so much damaged as to endanger the vitality of the uterus, vaginal hj^sterectomy should be performed. (3) All incomplete tears implicating the broad ligament, and most complete tears, should be treated by packing the rupture per vaginam with iodoform gauze after removing clots and fluid blood. If the abdomen is opened primarily for the extraction of the child, or for the arrest of internal haemori'hage, and it is found that the torn surfaces can be accurately adjusted by suturing, it would be advisable to do so, and the following rules may be worth noting :— Suture of Uterine Laceration.—This operation can only be done thoroughly after abdominal section. Suturing per vaginam, if the tear is above the vaginal portion of the cervix, is im- possible. Let the abdomen be opened in the mid-line in the usual way, and if the rent is