FEEDING 30 INVALID Rub butter into the flour and other dry ingredients; make into a soft dough with milk. Form into a scone, or httle breakfast rolls or twists, and bake in oven for fifteen minutes. Savoury Eggs 3 hard-boiled eggs. \ gill of cream. ^ oz. of butter. 1 table-spoonful of cheese (Parmesan). 1 small piece of onion, chopped. Pepper. Salt to taste. Mustard. 1 tomato. Divide the eggs in half ; take out the yolks. Mix together the yolks, cream, cheese, butter, onion finely chopped ; pepper, salt, and mustard to taste. Fill the white parts of eggs with the mixture. Cut six rounds of brown bread ; butter them ; on each piece lay a slice of tomato, and on this half of a filled egg. Garnish the dish with cress. Almond Pudding 2 eggs. ^ lb. of almond flour. 1 lb. of butter. 2 tabloids of saccharine dissolved in a table- spoonful of brandy. Warm the butter; beat in the almond flour and the yolks of the eggs, adding the dissolved saccharine. Whisk the whites to a stiff' froth, beat altogether. Put into small cake moulds, bake in a quick oven, and serve with a little hot sauce made with dry sherry and saccharine. Cocoa-nut pudding can be made in the same way. Fourth Day Breakfast Tea, coffee, or cocoa from nibs. Grilled kidney and bacon. Crab omelet. Bran bread and cocoa-nut biscuits. Lunch Lime juice and aerated water. (Unsweetened Montserrat lime juice.) Anchovies on fried gluten bread slices ; if cold, a spoonful of cream on the top. Cold meat and tomato salad. Pat(i de foie gras, with bran biscuits. Dinner Soup Julienne. Salmon. Mayonnaise sauce and cucumber. Sweetbreads and tomato. Junket. Mushrooms au gratin. Tomato Salad.—Slice up two perfectly firm and ripe tomatoes; sometimes it is necessary to remove the core and pips. Add a tea- spoonful of oil and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar, and sprinkle on a little pepper and salt. Mayonnaise Sauce Yolks of 3 eggs. I pint best salad oil. I gill tarragon vinegar. Pepper and salt. In a round basin begin stirring, with a wooden spoon, the yolks of the eggs, pepper and salt, until they are quite mixed. Then add, drop by drop, the salad oil and the vinegar, stirring all the time in the same direction ; if added quickly the egg curdles. When finished, the sauce must have a creamy appearance. Sweetbreads and Vegetables.—(For the prepara- tion of sweetbreads, see p. 21.) The prepared sweetbreads are first stewed in milk, then rolled in slices of fat bacon, and placed in the oven for a quarter of an hour. The bacon is then removed ; the sweetbreads are cut in slices, and grated Parmesan cheese is shaken over them. They are again placed in the oven and braised in a rich brown gravy. Served on croutons of gluten bread, in the centre of which can be placed stewed tomatoes, green peas, fresh French beans, stewed mushrooms. Mushrooms au gratin 10 mushrooms. Piece of onion. 1 tea-spoonful chopped parsley. 1 salt-spoonful of thyme, fresh. dried. Pepper 1 Salt to taste. Lemon juice ) Almond biscuit crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Select ten cup mushrooms about the same size. Peel the muslirooms very carefully without breaking them ; cut out the stalks close down with a spoon, and scoop out the inside. Peel the stalks, and chop them up with the scooped- out portion ; add the onion, parsley, and thyme. Fry all this in the pan with a little butter. Add sviflacient biscuit crumbs to make the whole into a moist paste, and season to taste. Bake in the oven until the mushrooms are quite tender. Serve with some nicely-fried parsley round it. Fifth Day Breakfast Tea, chocolate, coffee, and cream. Findon haddocks, stewed in milk or broiled. Poached eggs on spinach. Almond loaves. Gluten cracknels. Butter. Lwnch Cocoa nibs. Potted herrings. Stewed cucumber and cheese sauce. Stilton cheese. Pine biscuits. Toasted gluten flour bread.