LIFE INSURANCE 414 occupation; 5th, his place of residence; 6th, his age. The lists of questions which have been drawn out by the various insurance companies to be put to the applicant, to their agent, to the applicant's personal friends, and to the medical examine!', are intended to elicit all necessary information on these points, and the medical adviser of the company ought to have all such information before him at the time of his giving his opinion as to how a life is to be classed. Insurance companies vary as to the classification of lives, but all lives can be conveniently classed under three groups:—1st: (a) Lives probably above the average insurable at ordinary rates; (6) average lives insurable at ordinary rates. 2nd: Under-average lives insurable with a certain amount of " loading." 3rd: Under- average lives not insurable. To determine in which group a life is to be classed all the factors before mentioned have to be considered and weighed. 1. Family History.—Although at the present day the belief in the hereditary transmission of disease is not by any means so general among the medical profession as it used to be, still few will dispute the fact that some families are liable to certain diseases, and if the diseases themselves are not hereditary the liability to these diseases runs in families. Consumption, which was considered one of the most heredi- tary of all diseases, is now believed not to be transmitted at all from parent to child—yet it can hardly be denied that consumption runs in families. Although, therefore, opinion has changed as to why certain diseases are more prevalent in some families than others, there can be no denying the fact that they are, and it is therefore necessary for insurance companies to inquire into the family history of the applicant for insurance. It is necessary, in the first place, to ascertain whether the applicant's father and mother are alive or dead. If alive, in what state of health and what their ages are; and if dead, at what ages they died and what was the cause of death. The number, state of health, and ages of the proposer's brothers and sisters should also be ascertained ; and how many, if any, are dead, their ages at death, and causes of death. In many cases, of course, the family history is quite satisfactory, but in some there are facts which at once arrest attention. The family may be all short or long lived, because there can be little doubt that some families seem to have a greater tenacity of life than others. If all or several members of the family have been short-lived, the causes of death will probably indicate what disease or diseases the family is liable to. If, for instance, two or more members of a family of six or seven had died or suffered from tuberculosis, one would be suspicious that the family had a tendency to contract that disease, and it would be advis- able to make further inquiries as to tubercular disease amongst the more distant relations of the proposer, such as the uncles, aunts, cousins, grandfather, and grandmother. This is more especially necessary where the proposer's im- mediate relatives are few in number. The prevalence of any particular disease in the family should also be followed by a searching examination of the individual, especially as re- gards the particular organ or organs liable to be affected by that malady, to ascertain whether the proposer is free from disease, and is con- stituted in such a way as not to be likely to develop it. In the case of consumption, for instance, particular attention should be paid to the form, movements, and development of the chest, as well as to whether the lungs are healthy. The habits of the individual as well as his occupation would here also be of consider- able importance in determining whether he was likely to develop the disease. The age of the proposer in a case of this sort is of great im- portance. If young and under the age at which his relations died, his life is not so good a one as if he had passed middle life, or had well passed the age at which the relatives died. This, of course, applies to consumption; but each disease has to be specially considered, as it is well known that the age at which diff"erent diseases manifest themselves varies greatly. Whilst, for instance, pulmonary phthisis is most prevalent from eighteen to thirty, gout, cancer, insanity, paralysis, etc., are more apt to prove fatal in later life. The bearing of these facts on the expectation of life of an applicant for insurance who has a family history of those diseases, is self-evident. But the question for an insurance examiner is whether an individual case before him with its own particular family history should be admitted, and at what rate, or rejected. Can any rule be laid down as to what constitutes a family history showing a tendency to a par- ticular disease 1 In answering this question, much, I think, must depend on the disease which is under consideration. The mere pres- ence of a case of consumption, a case of gout, a case of paralysis in some near relative of the proposer, can hardly be taken as showing a tendency to any of those diseases, and yet if any of the near relatives have suffered from any of the so-called hereditary diseases the medical examiner must necessarily be on the look-out for evidences of the same or allied diseases in the proposer. Dr. James Begbie, in his reports to the Scottish Widows' Fund Society, was the first, I believe, to lay down the rule that the presence of two undoubted cases of consumption in near relatives of an applicant for insurance should be an absolute bar to his being admitted. This view was later very strongly advocated by the late Sir Robert Christison in his report to the Standard Insur-