LACEIMAL APPARATUS, DISEASES OF 310 The diagnosis is made certain by gently opening the lids with the fingers of one hand, while pressure is made on the sac with the tip of a finger of the other hand. Catarrh of the sac is made known by the escape from one or both puncta of a few drops or a tiny stream of turbid fluid. In time the sac becomes distended, forming a characteristic rounded swelling at the corner of the eye, and the patient very soon learns the trick of emptying this by pressure. In some cases pressure empties the contents, not into the conjunctival sac, but into the nose. This condition of slight distension of the sac may remain unchanged for an indefinite time if the patient regularly empties it and keeps the eye clean; but from a fresh coryza stagnation and decomposition of the contents takes place, giving rise to j^urulent cystitis. Here the symptoms are for the most part similar to, but more intense than in the catarrhal form. The eyelids in the morning are glued together by profuse muco-purulent secretion, the lashes are covered by crusts, the conjunctiva is swollen, red, and even chemotic. The ex- pressed contents of the sac are markedly puru- lent, and there is a painful feeling of distension in the region of the sac. A third stage called jMegmonous dacryocystitis may supervene from extension of the inflamma- tion to the parts outside the sac. The onset is rapid, and accompanied by general febrile symptoms and intense pain, the patient in some cases becoming almost maniacal. The neighbouring soft parts are infiltrated so that the limitations of the sac can no longer be made out, but are merged in the general swell- ing, which is hard, brawny, and shining. The puncta are with difficulty brought into view, and the ocular conjunctiva is chemotic. The condition might be mistaken for erysipelas, but the extreme tenderness just over the sac and the history of a preceding lacrimal discharge ought to prevent such a mistake. The pain is so excessive that, as a rule, we are not enabled to help our diagnosis by pressing out pus from the puncta as in the catarrhal stage. The abscess points just below the tendo-oculi in most cases; but it sometimes burrows under the orbicular muscle, and escapes at some dis- tance below the lower eyelid. The symptoms rapidly abate on the escape of the pus, and the swelling subsides so that the limits of the distended sac are again made out. A fistulous opening is very apt to be left. In some few cases the pus escapes from the puncta, and it has been known to make its escape by perfoi'a- tion of the lacrimal bone ; but this is exceedingly rare. The swelling and infiltration of the mucous membrane is alone sufficient to cause retention of tears and pus, and actual stricture is by no means usually present—in fact it is distinctly exceptional, and when present is to be regarded, as in stricture of the urethra, not as the cause, but as the eff'ect of the inflammation in the canal. Stenosis can be diagnosed only after surgical treatment by probing, and we will have more to say on this subject under the heading of Treatment. Disease of the bone forming the walls of the canal is often met with in syphilitic and tubercular cases; it is probably always the cause and not the effect of the purulent cystitis, but rough treatment in probing may give rise to it. In some cases of long-standing obstruction the sac becomes greatly distended, forming a tumour almost the size of the first joint of the thumb. The overlying skin is much attenuated, semi-translucent, and bluish, and the condition might be mistaken for a varix. The swelling is incompressible, and it is usually not possible to empty it either into the nose or into the conjunctival sac. This condition is called a mucocele or hydrops, and is due to distension of the sac with glairy fluid. Dermoid tumours, although, of course, almost situated at the outer part of the brow, do some- times occur in the region of the sac, and might then be mistaken for mucocele, as has occurred more than once in my own experience. A mucocele of the frontal sinus, with or without infiltration of the anterior ethmoidal cells, might be confounded with a hydrops of the sac; but the former condition soon gives rise to proptosis and lateral displacement of the eye with consequent diplopia, which is never the case with dilatation of the sac, however great. Of late years a good deal has been written concerning the so-called congenital blennorrhcea of the sac, which is really due to retention of the normal mucus from a membranous obstruc- tion at the lower end of the nasal duct, a condition which Vlacovich found four times in the examination of fourteen bodies of new-born infants. This affection is nearly always confined to one eye, and the characteristic symptom noticed by the parents a day or two after birth is the presence within the lower eyelid of a quantity of glaiiy mucus. If the secretion be gently wiped away and pressure then made on the sac, the source of the discharge can be proved by the escape of some from the puncta. It is only seldom that any distension of the sac can be made out. The secretion may rarely, in older standing cases, become slightly purulent. I have known the condition to be mistaken for ophthalmia neonatorum by those not overburdened with ophthalmic knowledge. It has been noted by Heddaus, and confirmed by others, that the secretion, like all physio- logical secretions, is in abeyance during sleep, so that if the eye be cleansed last thing at