57 JAUNDICE duodenum, and are often latent. Jaundice following the symptoms of duodenal ulcer would therefore more reasonably be regarded as due to adhesions involving the common duct. Congenital obliteration of the bile ducts, giving rise to persistent icterus in young children, has already been described {vide vol. iii. p. 372). The age of the patient and its persistent nature make its diagnosis easy. (e) Spasm of the muscular fibres of the ducts explains emotional jaundice, such as that due to fright, satisfactorily; but inasmuch as it is difficult to prove, its occurrence is open to question. (3) The conditions that may press on or invade the bile ducts from without, and so interfere with the flow of bile and give rise to jaundice, are very numerous. A tumour may merely press on tlae duct, or on the other hand it may actuallj^ invade the walls of the duct; a floating kidney may exert temporary traction or pressure on the ducts, or inflammatory adhesions spreading out from a gastric, duodenal ulcer, or other focus of inflammation, may involve the ducts and strangle them. The following list shows the great variety of con- ditions that may be met with :— (a) Tumours projecting from the liver itself into the portal fissure may compress the bile ducts. Thus a carcinomatous mass may com- press the ducts; exceptionally it occludes one hepatic duct and sets up jaundice, though bile from the other lobe enters the duodenum and colours the fa3ces. A hydatid cyst may, though it rarely does, press on the ducts. A gumma occasionally arises in tliis situation and sets up jaundice. {b) Enlarged glands in the portal fissure may press on the ducts. The enlargement may be secondary to carcinoma of the stomach, colon, gall-bladder, liver itself, pancreas, kidney, etc. Enlargement may also be due to tubercle or possibly to syphilis. (c) Malignant disease may spread by continuity up the lesser omentum from the pylorus and give rise to jaundice by invading the ducts. Jaundice is said to be met with in 5 per cent, of cases of gastric carcinoma, and may depend either on a direct extension of the growth or on a secondary growth in the portal fissure. (d) As already mentioned, fibrosis spreading out from a gastric ulcer at the pylorus, or even from a duodenal ulcer, may involve and compress the ducts. It is rare, and when it does occur is likely to be regarded as malignant disease, since the matting together of the tissues may be palpable as a tumour. It is remarkable that jaundice is hardly ever seen in perihepatitis or in simple chronic peritonitis — conditions in which fibrosis and cicatricial contraction are very marked, and might be expected to compress the bile duct. (e) Enlarged glands in the neighbourhood of the common bile duct near its entrance into the duodenum may be secondary to carcinoma in various organs. When the duct is thus obstructed the gall-bladder should be enlarged, and the condition closely resembles malignant disease of the head of the pancreas. (/) Tumours and Cysts of the Pancreas.— Malignant disease of the head of the pancreas, which is practically always spheroidal-celled carcinoma of comparatively slow growth, forms a hard mass, rarely large enough to be felt, which compresses and may invade the common bile duct. The duct becomes dilated, and the gall-bladder often forms a tense, pear-like tumour. The jaundice is progressive and deep, and emaciation is rapid. Hydatid cysts have been known to occur in the head of the pancreas, and to give rise to jaundice. Pancreatic and peripancreatic cysts rarely come so far to the right as to compress the ducts, but exceptionally this does occur. Cysts of the pancreas are readily felt, and should be distinguished from a distended gall-bladder by the fact that the stomach, if inflated, is found to lie in front of the cyst. ((/) Retroperitoneal tumours arising from glands, connective tissues, and possibly from accessory adrenal bodies, may grow forward and involve the bile ducts. As in the case of pancreatic and renal tumours, coils of intestine may intervene between them and the abdominal wall, and give rise to a resonant note on percussion. {h) Renal Tnniours.—A primary tumour of the right kidney rarely presses on the bile duct, giving rise to jaundice; a secondary growth in the portal fissure is a more probable cause of jaundice in primary renal growths. The same is true of primary tumours in the suprarenal bodies. Floating kidney on the right side may give rise to attacks of biliary colic and jaundice; the condition is therefore very likely to be regarded as cholelithiasis. The mechanism has been thought to be due to direct pressure of the kidney on the duct, but Macalister regards it as due to traction, the peritoneum covering the kidney being continuous with that around the bile duct. (i) Abdominal Aneurysms.—An aneurysm of the aorta under the pancreas may compress the common bile duct and give rise to jaundice. Aneurysms of the hepatic artery are rare, but when they occur are frequently accompanied by jaundice. The aneurysm may compress the common hepatic or hepatic ducts, in which case the gall-bladder will not be dilated as it is when an aortic aneurysm compresses the common duct. Aneurysm of the commencement of the superior mesenteric artery has been known to give rise to jaundice.