217 LABOUK, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED falls unduly on the side to which the lumbar convexity looks, and presses the sacrum towards that side. The lateral mass of the sacrum and the ilium on the side of the lumbar convexity are compressed, the bony tissue being more compact than normal. The sacrum and the acetabulum are thus brought nearer together, and the ilio-pectineal line on that side is more Fia. 20.—Diagram of cavity of scolio-rachitic pelvis : continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, deformed pelvis. AB, true conjugate ; AC, diagonal conjugate ; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. sharply curved. In short, the pelvis is unequally contracted; the side to which the lumbar con- vexity looks being the narrower, because it is the over-weighted side. The symphysis pubis is pulled over, away from the side to which the lumbar convexity looks, and the acetabulum on the underweighted side is higher up and farther out: because the outward pressure of the femur acts on this side to greater advantage. This pelvis is called the scolio-rachitic pelvis. The Mechanism of Labour with Contracted Pelvis.—In describing the mechanism of labour with contracted pelvis, it must be premised that it is assumed that the child is of average size and normal conformation. If the child is too big, the effect on labour is the same as if the pelvis were generally contracted; if the child is below the average size, it may come through a contracted pelvis without difficulty or altered mechanism. In considering the slighter kinds of pelvic con- traction, the question arises—How, and where, is the line to be drawn between a normal and a contracted pelvis 1 The answer is, that a pelvis which will allow a well-formed child of average size to pass through it in the usual way, that is, with the normal mechanism, is a normal pelvis. If the pelvis is in any diameter so contracted that the child cannot pass in the usual way, but must, by a special mechanism, adapt itself to the altered diameters of the canal, that pelvis is contracted. Let us apply this principle. The true conjugate of a normal pelvis averages about 4:^ inches, its transverse and oblique diameters about 5 inches. The foetal head as it usually presents, lies in the oblique diameter of the brim, partly flexed, so that the occipito- frontal diameter, which averages about 4f inches, lies in the oblique diameter. In the conjugate diameter of the pelvis lies a diameter of the head running from in front of one parietal eminence to behind the opposite one, and averaging about 4 inches. There is then, as has been pointed out in a former page, no hindrance offered by the bones to the passage of the foetal head. If the size of the pelvis is so altered that the head cannot thus enter the pelvis, then the pelvis is contracted. If, for instance, the conjugate diameter measures only 3| inches, the diameter running from in front of one parietal eminence to behind the opposite one cannot possibly enter the conjugate, and the head must enter with its long diameter lying transversely and the bitemporal diameter occupying the conjugate. A pelvis with its conjugate diameter shortened to this extent is, therefore, contracted; and if its other diameters are normal, it is called a fiat pelvis. Suppose now that the conjugate diameter of the pelvis only measures 4 inches, and the oblique and transverse measurements at the brim 4| inches. It will still be just possible for the head to enter the pelvis in the oblique diameter; but the occipito-frontal diameter will not enter the oblique diameter of the pelvis. To pass, the head must be much flexed, so that the suboccipito-frontal measurement may enter the brim. Thus a flat pelvis having a conjugate of 3| inches, and a small round pelvis having a conjugate of 4 inches or less, are called con- tracted ; anything above these measurements may be considered as normal, only causing difiiculty if the child is large. The mechanism of labour with contracted pelvis is not merely theoretically interesting, but is important, because the delivery of a living child depends upon its entering the pelvis in the most advantageous way; and because from observation of the mechanism of the labour the existence and the kind of pelvic contraction can be inferred, the reason of pro- longation of labour ascertained, and indications drawn as to the best treatment. This state- ment applies only to the slighter forms of pelvic contraction : in deformity so great as to prevent the delivery of a living child, the mechanism is less important. I shall describe the mechanism of labour with the two common forms of slight pelvic con- traction—the flat, and the small round pelvis. The mechanism of labour with the flat pelvis depends upon the degree of contraction, and not upon whether the pelvis is or is not rickety. One feature of the mechanism of labour with the flat pelvis has already been alluded to, and the reason for it explained, viz., that the head enters the pelvis with its long diameter in the transverse diameter of the pelvis, so that its bitemporal diameter, or one a little behind it, is