280 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—INDUCTION OF PREMATURE LABOUR performed, however, soon enough to ensure that the foetal head is smaller and its bones more plastic than at term, and should therefore be done as a rule not later than the thirty-sixth week. The object is to choose a time at which the child can be delivered with forceps without undue difficulty. It is unnecessary to induce labour so soon as to make natural delivery possible. In determining such a date it is necessary to consider the size and shape of the pelvis as ascertained by pelvimetry (q.v.).^ The amount of room available in the transverse diameter is almost as important as the conju- gate, and the outlet of the bony pelvis must also be considered with care. More valuable than measurement is knowledge gained by experience at previous confinements, and most useful of all is the history of previous inductions of premature labour. If the conjugate measures 4 inches, but a dead child has previously been delivered with forceps, induction at the thirty- eighth week would be justified. The table below gives approximately the times for induction suitable to certain measurements:— / 3^ inches . . thirty-sixth week, pi • .1. J 3j inches . . thirty-fourth week. ° ^3 inches . . thirty-second week. V 2| inches . . thirtieth week. When it is decided to induce in a certain week, it is next necessary to ascertain as nearly as possible the date of commencement of pregnancy. It is not wise to attach too much importance to statements as to the date of the last menstruation, and the date of quickening is even more fallacious. It is always desirable to measure the distance from the pubes to the fundus with callipers, and so estimate the stage to which pregnancy has advanced. The average height of the fundus above the pubes in different weeks of pregnancy is given below in inches :— Weeks 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 Inches 4 47 5*4 6 6-6 7-3 7-8 8-3 87 9 9-3 9-6 10 Two weeks before the proposed date of in- duction the physician should make a bimanvial examination. With one hand on the fundus and two fingers of the other hand in the vagina, he must press down the fcetal ovoid until the head enters the pelvis, which it will do very easily if the calculation is correct. Subsequently the patient must be examined every week, so that induction may be deferred, if possible, or ante- dated if necessary. As soon as the head fits the brim accurately the process of induction should be begun. The choice of method must depend upon the ^ Numerous attempts have recently been made to obtain by means of radiography an accurate image of the pelvic brim. The methods used have as yet proved very unreliable, and at the present time have no practical value. experience and judgment of the operator, and upon the circumstances of each case. In pre- meditated inductions rapidity is not the main object, and it should be the rule to begin with simple measures and employ no vmnecessary instrument. The bougie may, of course, be used, in which case Briggs's method is the best ; or the small rubber bag of Horrocks. But in most hands, old-fashioned manual dilatation will give the best results. The cervix should first be opened with a graduated series of dilators (no ansesthetic being necessary, as a rule), until a finger can be passed through the cervix. Thereafter dilatation, first with one and later with two fingers, should be made once or twice daily until the cervix gradually softens and labour follows naturally. There is a certain number of cases in which pains do not follow manual dilatation with suflicient rapidity to ensure delivery while the head is still small enough; but simple measures are enough to cause the onset of labour in so large a proportion of cases, that they oiight to be tried in every case before resorting to more violent means. The head should be pushed into the pelvis every day whilst dilatation is being carried out, and when it begins to be difficult to make it enter the brim, it is quite soon enough to begin more rapid dilatation. The best course is then to insert a de Ribes' bag, using, if necessary, one or two sizes of Barnes' bags, in order to gain sufficient room for the admission of the larger instrument. If the de Ribes' bag does not set up pains within six or seven hours, traction may be made upon the stalk of the bag. Delivery should never be attempted when pains are com- pletely absent, or before dilatation is complete. It is never wise to apply the forceps until the whole hand can be passed through the cervix. It is impossible to insist too strongly upon the importance of patience and judgment if induction is to be successful. The needs of each individual case must be considered, not only before beginning, but every day and hour until delivery is over. Apart from moderate pelvic contraction, there are some other conditions in which premeditated induction may be required for the sake of the child. Such are obstruction of the parturient canal by small fibroids in the lower part of the uterus, cancer of the cervix, cicatricial contrac- tions of the vagina, and the like. In these cases time and method must be chosen, as in cases of moderate pelvic contraction. In certain conditions in which induction is undertaken on behalf of the mother there is no special need for speed, and the gentle methods applicable to induction in tlie interest of the child may be employed. Thus in phthisis (q-v.) and in some forms of cardiac disease (q.v.) it is sometimes possible to prolong pregnancy until the child is viable, to induce labour gradually, and deliver gently with the help of an anaesthetic,