LABOUR, FAULTS IN THE PASSENGER 240 by special care and exertion on the part of the accoucheur. The abdomen must be supported by a firm broad binder, and the uterine contractions should be stimulated by friction. It is still usual to give ergot, as in other cases of uterine inertia; but quinine is rapidly becoming re- cognised as a more suitable drug for this purpose. Given in doses of 4 grains every hour for three or four hours, it favours alternate contractions and relaxations, much more useful than the somewhat permanent contraction seen after the administration of active doses of ergot. Indeed, in hydramnios, as in general, difficulties in delivering the child and the placenta are often avoided by adhering to the general rule never to give ergot until the uterus is empty. In slight cases, it is often possible to avoid breaking the genei-al obstetric rule which forbids artificial rupture of the membranes before dilatation of the cervix is complete; in severe cases, on the other hand, the symptoms caused by distension may indicate evacuation of the fluid as soon as the diagnosis of hydramnios is made. It is usual to advise partial or gradual removal of the liquor amnii by means of an aspirating needle or a small " valved " opening high up in the uterus, the object being the pre- servation of the " fore waters." These sugges- tions, though traditional, are not practical; but before rupturing the membranes, it is always possible to secure, by artificial dilatation of the OS, sufficient room to admit of bipolar version. Having passed one hand into the vagina and dilated until the os easily admits two fingers, simply puncture the membranes, check the flow of liquor amnii by plugging the vaginal outlet more or less completely with the wrist, and observe the lie of the foetus. If the head presents and enters the pelvis in a good posi- tion, it may be left alone. The simplest way of avoiding future difficulty, however, is to secure and pull down a foot, and draw the half breech well into the partly dilated cervix. As a prognosis for the child is so poor, it is not worth while to attempt to secure head-first delivery. The case may now be left to nature, or may be terminated by manually completing dilatation and delivering the child. Abdominal pressure must be kept up while this is being accomplished, and extra care must be used during the third stage. Supra-pubic pressure should be made for some time after the removal of the placenta, in order to minimise the risk of post-partum hemorrhage. Ergot may now be given to overcome the uterine inertia common in these cases. To obviate the tendency to subinvolution, quinine, iron, and strychnine may be given during the puerperium, and hot vaginal douches will also be found of service. (b) Deficiency or Absence of Liqum- Amnii : Oli<johydravinios.—Sometimes the quantity of liquor amnii produced is less than a pint. This condition is discussed under " Pregnancy, Pathology of," but must be referred to here in so far as it affects the course of labour. The foetal parts are made out by abdominal palpation more easily than usual, and the abdominal tumour is small. Vaginal examina- tion during a labour pain reveals the absence or small size of the bag of fore-waters. Periodic examination shows that the pains are not effective in dilating the cervix. Nature's hydrostatic dilator, the bag of fore- waters, being wanting, the first stage is slow, and the risks attending exhaustion on the one hand and interference on the other are incurred. During pains, the head should be pushed upward, so as to allow all the liquor amnii which is present to be forced past the head into the bag of fore-waters. Care must be taken to avoid rupturing the membranes during this manoeuvre. If fluid is present only to the extent of a few ounces, enough can be collected in front of the head to form a useful bag of waters. Failing natural dilatation, the os must be opened by patient work with the fingers or by the use of hydrostatic dilators. The best of these for this purpose is the conical inelastic bag of Champetier de Ribes, which was origin- ally designed for the induction of premature labour, and which is now largely used in cases of accidental htemorrhage and placenta prsevia. The bag can be introduced throvigh the cervix uteri as soon as the os will admit the passage of two fingers. It is then almost, but not quite, filled with an aseptic fluid by means of a syringe. The conical bag then replaces the natural bag of waters, and when it has been expelled by uterine action through the cervix into the vagina, dilatation is sufficient to allow the second stage of labour to proceed. If labour pains are weak or infrequent, dilatation may be aided by gentle traction on the stalk of the bag. (e) Early Escape of Liquor Amnii: " Dry Labour."—Premature rupture of the membranes may be caused by careless examination during a pain. If the membranes are unduly thin, they may break spontaneously under the pressure of uterine contractions at the beginning of labour. When the presentation or position is faulty, or when the shape of the pelvic brim is unusual, the presenting part does not fit accurately into the lower uterine segment, and may fail to shut off the fore-waters from the liquor amnii con- tained in the general uterine cavity. In these cases the whole " general contents pressure" during a pain acts upon the unsupported por- tion of membranes occupying the dilating os ; the result is the descent of the bag of waters into the vagina as a sausage-shaped protrusion. Under these circumstances, if not very tough, the membranes will rupture early, and the rest of the labour will be " dry." In " dry labour" the first stage is slow and painful. The head, miprotected by the bag of