LABOUR, OPERATIONS—EMBRYOTOMY 291 head. The range of brim contraction in the conjugate diameter would be between 3| and 2 inches. If the contraction is in the transverse diameter there would be corresponding degrees at the outlet. Sometimes the obstacle is due to a morbid condition of the Soft Canals, as when there is cancer of the cervix or cicatricial contraction of the vagina, or the space is en- croached on by a uterine or ovarian tumour. In a maternity hospital such cases would pre- ferably be treated by some of the Cccsarean methods; but the general practitioner may give his patient the best chance of recovery by lessening the size of the child's head. II. Fault 171 the Passenger.—Undue size of the foetal head, or a brow or face presentation in a slightly narrowed pelvis, or locked twins, may necessitate the operation. III. Complex Labours.—In some cases of con- vulsions or haemorrhage or rupture of uterus, where the os is still imperfectly dilated, the mother may have a chance of survival if the foetus can be diminished in size and extracted with less distension of her parts. Where the infant is already dead, as in cases of neglected prolapsus funis in a pelvis measuring some- thing under 4 inches in the brim conjugate, the dangers to the mother will be lessened by reducing the bulk of the head. As a rule, head-perforation is unwarranted in a woman who has previously given birth to a living child by the natural efforts, or who has been delivered by the simpler operations of turning or the forceps. But malacosteon may cause an increasing difficulty, or tumours may develop; or the head of the later child may be of larger size or present less favourably ; or a complication may arise requiring the graver interference. Stages of the Operation.—There are three distinct stages or steps in the procedures in- volved in the complete artificial delivery of a child that has the head reduced in size. I. Perforation.—The operator must first make an opening in the presenting part of the cranial vault. (1) Instruments to be used.—1st: In a case of hydrocephalus with wide sutures it will usually be best to puncture simply with a fine aspiratory trocar. 2nd : In the more frequent conditions the bones may be pierced with a Knife, Bistoury, or Spike, of which many varieties have been contrived, sometimes curved, sometimes straight, sometimes sheathed. 3rd : More effectively the opening may be made with a pair of long, strong Scissors, provided with shoulders, which prevent them from sinking too far through the skull. When the handles are separated the points are pulled apart to enlarge the opening. Of this variety Smellie's scissors (see Fig. 1) may serve as a type. 4th : Better still are the Perforators that have the cutting edge of the blades turned outwards, and the blades not crossing at the joint, but hinged, so that when the handles are compressed the points of the blades are separated. Sir J. Y. Simpson's perforator (see Fig. 2) is the most widely em- ployed instru- ^!jl= ment of this con- struction in this country, and Blot's in France. 5th: In Germany wide use has been made of Trephines, which are alleged to have the advantage of producing an opening with clean- cut edges, and so of diminishing the dangers that arise from the presence of protruding frag- ments and loose spiculse of bone. 6th: The Basilyst possesses the advantages of both. If it Fio. 1.—Smellie's scissors for perforating the skull. FIG. 2.—J. Y. Simpson's perforator. be screwed into the vault as far as the shoulder and then withdrawn, a round aperture is left with smooth edges, through which the cranial contents may escape as after the use of a trephine. But in most instances a wider aperture is de- manded, and this is produced with the basilyst when the handles are compressed and the points of the blades forced apart. (2) Preliminary/ Measures.—Before proceeding to operate, the practitioner has some points to consider :—1st: He will have the patient anaes- thetised. 2nd : He will have the patient placed in the left lateral position with her knees bent up and her hips at the edge of the bed; it is sometimes more convenient to have the patient in the supine posture when she is asleep with chloroform. 3rd : Bowels and bladder must be empty. 4th: Provision should be made for receiving and covering up fragments of bone and the cranial contents. 5th: The operator must make one more careful examination to make out clearly the promontory of the sacrum, the margins of the os uteri, and the exact position of the head. 6th : An assistant keeps the head fixed at the brim by pressure from above through the abdominal walls. (3) Rules for Perforating.—: The Perfor- ator, held in the right hand, is guided to the head by the fingers of the left, which are touch- ing the part selected for perforation. 2nd : The point of the instrument is directed against a bone. In a flat pelvis this will usually be a parietal bone ; in the jus to-minor it may be the occipital; in brow and face presentations the frontal bones will be struck. It is important to pierce a bone and not merely to go through a suture or fontanelle, else the edges of the bones may come together after the instrument is with- drawn, and little collapse of the skull be pro- duced. 3rd : The perforator should be directed against the bone at a right angle to avoid the