106 KIDNEY in the kidney, and be felt only in the epididymis or ovary, or calf, or sole of foot. Thus I re- moved an oxalate of lime stone from the right kidney of a man who complained of incurable neuralgia of the right testis. I operated on learning that severe right renal pain preceded the pain in the testis by two years. Influence of Sleep Postm-e on Renal Pain due to Stone.—In a certain number of cases, large enough to warrant the symptom being asked for and noted, the pain of renal stone is influenced by the posture of the body in sleep. In a certain percentage of the cases the patient must lie upon the affected side to obtain sleep. To lie on the opposite side induces or increases (by " dragging " 1) the pain of the stone. If the renal pain is intermittent this posture is only assumed during the exacerbation. When the kidney has become inflamed the patient often lies on the other side, leaving the inflamed kidney free from pressure. B. Renal Colic Group.—It is allowed that the agony of renal colic is due to spasmodic con- tractions of the renal pelvis and ureter. This is generally induced by the passage of a calculus along the ureter, or by some other foreign body such as a clot, a clump of muco- pus, a mass of debris or growth, hydatid or worm. Any substance, in fact, which excites the muscular contractions of the tube, by direct irritation of its inner surface, and by obstruction to the free flow of urine along its channel, will cause more or less severe renal colic. But typical renal colic is not always caused by the transit of voidable stones. An unvoidable calculus in the pelvis may so abut upon the orifice as to close it and produce a colic; or a small calculus may be so encysted near the pelvic orifice of the ureter as to cause transient swelling sufficient to close the opening and induce renal colic. In both cases the renal colic will be fruitless—no stone will pass— though the symptoms may be as severe as if a stone were in transit. Renal colic, then, is significant of back pressure and distension of the pelvic cavity—- one of the potent factors in the production and accentuation of suppurative changes about a renal calculus. If, then, attacks of fruitless renal colic are suffered from, the practitioner may be certain that the pelvis is dilating, and on this account the prognosis is graver than one with unilateral renal pain without colic, and I believe operative interference should be imdertaken sooner in those with colic than in those without. It must be remembered that a pelvis may dilate quietly without any colic, as occurs in slight bends of the ureteric tube, narrowed vesical orifice to the ureter, and vesico-urethral ob- structions. Other Symptoms of Renal Stone.—Hoenia- turia.—Slight hajmatui'ia after exercise or jolting is the cardinal symptom of renal calculus. It may be absent, or appear only rarely. It may occur without pain—be an early symptom and never recur; it may be the only symptom present. It differs from the hgematuria of growth in that bleeding from a growth is apt to occur during sleep, at which time the bleeding of calculus, depending as it does on movement, is diminished or quiescent (Dickinson). Nausea and vomiting is usually present during an attack of renal colic, but it occurs also in renal pain ; in some instances it is undoubtedly due to reflex irritation, in others it indicates interference with urinary excretion. Frequency and imperious desire to urinate are uncertain symptoms. I believe they often in- dicate descending waves of pelvic or ureteric congestion. P?is—acid pyuria—more marked on rising ; intermittent in quantity—is an evidence of pyelitis, and thei'efore of great importance in prognosis. Motile organisms in acid pyuria with renal pain, if no previous instrumentation has been carried out, are evidences of pelvic infection, but neither pus nor bacteria are characteristic symptoms of stone, though valuable indications of the urgency and dangers of stone. Diagnosis.—The following Group of Symptoms arouse the Suspicion of Calculus:—Fixed renal pain, felt posteriorly, increased by abrupt bodily movement, exercise, or jolting, radiating when severe along the ureter to the groin or testicle, or down the thigh or to the knee or calf. Occasionally slight renal tenderness or deep bimanual palpation, and sharp stabbing pain elicited by percussion or succussion. Attacks of severe renal colic followed now and again by the passage of small calculi. Attacks of hsematuria observed after jolting; the blood being inti- mately mixed but nearly always slight and dark in character; inability to sleep except on painful side. Clear urine constantly showing a marked deposit of oxalates or uric acid. These symptoms, extending over a period of three or four years without bladder irritation at night or day, point to calculus in the kidney. Radiogr-aphy of Renal Calculi.—Every case of doubtful renal calculus should be radiographed if possible. Kidney skiagraphy is, however, still disappointing, for the organs lie in a region of the body having great relative opacity to the rays; and rays of sufficient power to penetrate these parts penetrate the calculi also and leave no shadow. I have removed a calculus which was not detected by the X-rays, but I have seen a sufficient number of accurate diagnoses by its means to warrant the advice given above. It is especially the oxalate and the phosphatic- covered calculi which give the deepest shadow. Mimetic Conditions.—(1) Tubercle of the Kidney.—Primary tuberculosis of the kidney induces renal pain and tenderness on manipula-