LIVER, DISEASES OF 463 (2) In certain intestinal diseases where toxins are absorbed from the ahmentary canal and pass into the portal vein, fatty change in the liver is often found ; thus it is freqviently seen in gastro- enteritis and intestinal affections of children; in these conditions it may be said to be due to auto-intoxication. (3) It also occurs in hsemic infections and intoxications as a further stage of cloudy swelling. It is seen in grave ansemias, where the deficient blood-supply and want of oxygen are, as well as toxic bodies in the blood, factors of importance in the production of the fatty (degeneration) change. It is also seen in some acute infections, in diabetic coma and the status epilepticus (Mott). (4) In pulmonary tuberculosis a fatty liver is frequently found, and is a striking feature in the emaciated bodies of the victims of this disease. It is probably due to the action of toxins absorbed from the lungs. Peron's experi- ments showed that the intravenous injection of sterilised cultures of virulent tubercle bacilli lead to extensive fatty change in the liver; Carri^re's results directly opposed Peron's, and suggest the possibility that in man the fatty change is the result of secondary streptococcal infection. It is at any rate unlikely that (i.) the fatty liver is due to the cod-liver oil so constantly given now, since the condition was noticed before its introduction (Wilson Fox); or (ii.) entirely to a deficient supply of oxygen, inasmuch as there is no special degree of fatty change in emphysema and allied conditions. (5) Deficient blood-supply, as in anaemia, lardaceous disease, etc., probably leads to fatty degeneration ; but in grave anaemia the presence of toxic bodies in the blood must also be con- sidered. Morbid Anatomy. — The liver is usually enlarged, sometimes, as in phosphorus or iodoform poisoning, very markedly ; considerable fatty change may, however, be present in a liver of normal size. The surface is smooth and the edges are rounded ; its consistency is usually firmer than normal, though sometimes from post-mortem changes it is very soft. The specific gravity is diminished, and in some instances the liver may actually float in water. On section the knife becomes greasy, while pieces of the liver held in a flame may splutter and burn from the large amount of oil in the organ. The cut surface is anaemic, yellowish-white in colour, and may show exaggeration of the lobular arrangement, suggesting fine cirrhosis. A microscopic examination is sometimes required to settle the question whether cirrhosis is present. There is often slight apparent fibrosis from atrophy of the liver-cells. Fatty change frequently complicates other lesions of the liver, such as portal cirrhosis, nutmeg liver, and lardaceous disease. The his- tological changes have already been described (p. 462). Signs.—In cases where there is general obesity the liver may be made out by percussion to be enlarged ; but it may be difficult to feel the edge distinctly, both because the abdominal walls are overloaded with fat, and because during life the enlarged fatty liver is soft. The skin is greasy, the tension of the pulse probably low, and the heart sounds distant or feeble. Fat women often have I'emarkably small chests, and in the dead-house the contrast between the enormous fatty covering and the size of the thorax is striking. In cases where a fatty liver is associated with definite disease, such as pulmonary tuber- culosis, the liver is enlarged and smooth, but is less firm than in lardaceous disease or cirrhosis, and therefore not so easily felt. The spleen is not enlarged. There is no ascites or jaundice. Addison laid stress on the condition of the skin accompanying fatty liver—bloodless, look- ing like fine polished ivory, almost semi-trans- parent, and exquisitely smooth, like satin. This change was earliest seen and best marked on the backs of the hands. Addison also referred to recurring attacks of oedema in cases of fatty liver, especially when the patients were alcoholic. Possibly the oedema was due to peripheral neuritis or cardiac dilatation. An excess of glycero-phosphoric acid in the urine derived from lecithin, which is present in large amounts in fatty livers, has been described (Lepine et Eymennet). Symptoms.—The symptoms met with in cases of fatty liver are those of the condition or disease responsible for the secondary change in the liver. No doubt the various functions of the liver are not so well performed as they would be if the cells were healthy, but there is no constant or pre-eminent failure of function. If the degeneration is very acute and at the same time extensive, the symptoms would ap- proach those of acute atrophy, although actually the liver is much larger than normal. But the condition then ceases to be one of ordinary fatty liver. The stools are light, and the biliary secretion, though it does not cease, is probably deficient. Jaundice does not occur in imcomplicated cases, and there is no portal obstruction, so that ascites does not occur, and there is no enlargement of the subcutaneous or retro-peritoneal veins. Piles are said to occur, but the diarrhoea that was formerly thought to depend on fatty liver is probably the cause rather than the effect. There is no pain associated with fatty liver. Diagnosis.—Fatty liver may possibly be mis- taken for— (1) Leukaemic infiltration of the liver.—Here examination of the blood settles any doubt.