LIVER, DISEASES OF 478 to a sponge soaked in pus. The alveolar ap- pearance is due to the coalescence of a number of small abscesses. The suppurative process spreads by continuity, and is accordingly more or less localised, but sometimes small abscesses are seen away from the main collection. The abscesses vary in size from a pin's head to that of a walnut; the pus contains the characteristic granules composed of the ray fungus—or ac- tinomyces colonies — and numerous pyogenetic micro-organisms. Around the areas of suppura- tion there is fibrosis, with pigmentation of the walls of the small abscesses. The remainder of the liver may be congested and fatty. Micro- scopically there is intercellular cirrhosis in the immediate neighbourhood, with atrophy of the liver-cells. For the nature and characters of the fungus the reader is referred to Professor Delepine's article, vol. i. p. 53. There is a great tendency to get inflammation of the capsule of the liver and adhesions to ad- jacent organs. If the actinomycotic lesion is situated anteriorly it readily extends to the abdominal wall, and may lead to an abscess. This may be the first evidence of disease, so that caution is required in assuming that the hepatic lesion is secondary to an abscess of the abdominal wall. The actinomycotic abscess may spread through the diaphragm to the pleura or into the lung, and may first appear as an empyema of chronic character and obscure origin. In rare cases (Israel, Kanthack) actinomycosis may be pysemic, and spread by the blood-vessels. In Kanthack's case it was not clear whether the abscess originated in the right lobe of the liver or at the base of the right lung; from this it had spread by continuity into the right supra- renal body, and then given rise to secondary pysemic abscesses over the body. In Boari's case there were secondary pysemic abscesses due to pyogenetic cocci, and not con- taining actinomycosis. Clinical Aspect.—The first evidence may be that of an empyema, of an abscess in the abdominal wall, or, when the portion of the liver near the kidney is involved, of a peri- nephritic abscess. The liver may be enlarged, and with a slight degree of fever and some pain over the liver the suspicion of an hepatic abscess may arise. Jaundice is extremely rare. Diagnosis depends on finding the fungus in the pus, either from the liver or from a dis- charging abscess elsewhere. Before this has been done the condition is hardly likely to be thought of, and recorded cases show that the disease has been regarded as empyema, phthisis, sarcoma of the kidney (Leith), perinephritic abscess, hepatic abscess, suppurating hydatid, or gumma of the liver. Latimer and Welch describe a case of actino- mycosis of the liver combined with myelogenous leukaemia. The prognosis depends on the disease being recognised and vigorously treated with iodide of potassium, and on freedom from secondary infection with pyogenetic micro-organisms. Treatment.—The effect of iodide of potassium, introduced by Thomassen, in actinomycosis is extremely marked, and does fully as much good as it does in tertiary syphilis. It should be given in large doses—as much as a drachm daily. Locally iodoform may be employed, and anti- septics to minimise septic infection. Malignant Disease op the Liver Malignant disease may be primary in the liver, but more commonly new growth in the liver is secondary to a growth elsewhere. It will be convenient to consider the subject under these two heads :— Primary Malignant Disease op the Liver— Etiology 478 Morbid Anatomy . . . .478 Carcinoma . . . .479 Sarcoma . . . . .479 Physical Signs and Symptoms . 480 Diagnosis 480 Treatment . . . . .481 Primary Malignant Disease op the Liver Malignant disease, when it occurs primarily in the liver, most frequently starts in the gall-bladder. This subject has already been described (vol. iii. p. 386), and here primary disease of the liver itself will be considered. Frequency. — Primary malignant disease of the liver is a rather rare disease, and although clinically it is common to meet with cases where the manifestations are those of malignant disease in the liver without any definite evidence of a primary growth elsewhere, the majority will be found to be secondary to a latent growth else- where. The ratio of the incidence of primary to secondary malignant disease of the liver has been stated to be as 1 to 20. Sex.—It is commoner in men than in women, thus contrasting with primary cancer of the gall-bladder, which is four times commoner in women. Age.—It is met with in or after middle life, and seldom occurs under the age of forty years. It may, however, occur in quite early life. I have notes of twenty-nine cases of primary sarcoma in children under ten years of age, and congenital examples have been described. Nature.—Primary carcinoma is much more ■frequent than primary sarcoma of the liver. Very considerable variation exists in the forms of carcinoma and sarcoma met with in the liver.