LABOUK, OPERATIONS—VERSION 288 to maintain it in its newly-acquired situation by means of a binder. Unfortunately, this method of version, which is practically without risk, can only be performed under favourable conditions which are rarely met with when required. Not only must the liquor amnii be wholly present and in considerable quantity, bvit it is rai'ely possible after labour has commenced and the presenting part thus fixed in the pelvis. Should shovilder or pelvic presentations be noticed before labour has commenced, an attempt at their conversion into cephalic presentations should unquestionably be made by this method ; but after the onset of labour the fixation of the presenting part prevents its ready substitution in this manner, and the direct employment of the bipolar method should be undertaken. Bipolar Method.—This method of version, as introduced by Braxton Hicks, was undoubtedly Fig. 2.—Bipolar cephalic version. (Schaffer modified.) one of the greatest advances in obstetric science during the last century. It enables the accou- cheur to perform version early in labour when, as in shoulder presentations, it is easy and safe; but perhaps still more important is this method in the early stages of placenta praevia, before great separation of the placenta and consequent haemorrhage has occurred. It is carried out by both hands, one externally and the other internally, acting simultaneously on different poles of the foetus, and has there- fore been named by some authors the "Com- bined method." For its performance it is necessary that there be considerable mobility of the foetus in utero; practically, in the majority of instances, intact membranes and consequent entire liquor amnii. Before operating, the patient should be an- aesthetised, as this is beneficial in controlling the force of the uterine contractions and permit- ting the painless introduction of the whole hand into the vagina. The patient may be placed in the dorsal or left lateral position. One hand, preferably the left, having been carefully disinfected and lubri- cated on the extensor aspect, is in a cone-shaped manner slowly introduced into the vagina by a rotatory movement—any pressure necessary being directed backwards on the distensible perineum. On the cervix being reached two or three fingers are introduced to act on the presenting part as required, while the other hand is placed externally over the abdomen ready for coincident manipulation. The two hands can then move the extremities of the child in different directions. These manipula- FlG. 3.—Bipolar podalic version, Ist stage. (After Schaffer.) tions are to be conducted only during the intervals of pains. Thus, in the conversion of a vertex presentation into a breech the internal hand will be made to push the presenting part upwards to free it of the pelvic brim, and then in the direction of the occiput, while at the same time the external hand will depress the breech in the direction of the feet. Rotation of the foetus is thus made to occur through the smallest arc. In like manner, in shoulder PlQ, 4.—Bipolar podalic version, 2nd stage. (Schaffer modified.) cases the presenting shoulder may be pushed in either direction, according to whether a cephalic or podalic version is desired, the external hand acting on the breech or head as is considered more efficacious. The advantage of the "combined" over the "external" method chiefly rests with the readiness by which the fixed presenting part can be freed from the pelvic brim after labour has commenced. As a mode of delivery, it is invaluable in placenta prsevia when the cervix is but partially dilated. Here podalic version