302 LABOUE, OPERATIONS—CESAREAN SECTION to be decided whether the operation will be accompanied or followed by a removal of the ovaries, or the patient be sterilised by the simple expedient of tying and dividing the Fallopian tubes. This we have done in about fifty cases, and no harm has resulted, although theorists would have us believe that such a procedure would be surely followed by heema- tocele. Where there is a choice of operation Csesarean section is to be preferred, as it can be completed much sooner, and is free from the danger of shock and peritonitis which might complicate Porro's operation. The preparation of the patient will depend iipon the urgency of the case. When she is under observation it is better to confine her to bed for a couple of days beforehand, and the bowels should be moved by an enema and a slight laxative. The abdomen is washed and gently scrubbed, and the parts shaved, whilst the vagina is cleaned and rendered aseptic. The preparation, in fact, is the same as in any other abdominal section. The operator and his assistants who have to do with the case must be exceptionally careful in cleansing and disinfecting their hands, whilst the chief nurse should see that the instru- ments and sponges are sterilised and counted. Very few instruments are necessary, and should comprise two straight scal- pels and one blunt-pointed bistoury, pressure forceps, dissecting forceps, scissors, director, twenty straight 2J-inch Hagedorn needles, compression pessary, aseptic silk, silk-worm gut, adhesive plaster, and dressings. The catheter should always be passed into the bladder shortly before opera- tion. The needles should be threaded in pairs beforehand, with No. 3 Chinese twist silk ligatures, about 20 inches long, and placed in a towel wrung out of 1-30 carbolic solution ready for use. Palpation will reveal the position of the foetus, and this is all the more important, as from this you will know the attachment or site of the placenta. Briefly, my experience in Csesarean section has shown me that in dorso-posterior positions the placenta is attached upon the anterior wall, whilst in dorso-anterior positions the placenta is upon the posterior wall. (a) Thus, in the first cranial position, or 0. L. A., the placenta will be found upon the posterior wall, and somewhat to the right side. (h) In the second cranial position, or 0. D. A., the placenta will be upon the posterior wall, and somewhat to the left side. (c) In the third cranial position, or 0. D. P., the placenta will be upon the anterior wall, and somewhat to the left side. (d) In the foiirth cranial position, or 0. L. P., the placenta will be upon the anterior wall, and somewhat to the right side. The foetus and placenta will be found in the same relation in the various pelvic positions. From this knowledge you know when your uterine incision is likely to cut down upon the placenta, and you also form an idea as to how you will extract the foetus. The abdominal incision should be made in the median line, as in ovariotomy, and it will vary in situation according to the distension of the abdominal wall. Thus, if the abdomen takes the form as seen in Fig. 1, an incision of from 5 to 6 inches may be got without extending beyond the umbilicus; but when it is pendulous as in Fig. 2, the incision must of necessity extend more or less above the umbilicus. Before opening the uterus the operator should satisfy himself that the uterus is not only in the median line, but that it is not twisted upon its axis. This is found by locating the position of the Fallopian tubes by means of the fingers. He will frequently find the left tube more or less in front, as the uterus is usually rotated to Fig. 1. Fia. 2 the right. This displacement must be corrected, and, if necessary, an assistant can easily keep the uterus in position by pressing with his hand on the right side. When the placenta has its attachment upon the anterior wall the site is seen to bulge, and upon palpation has a fluctuant feeling akin to a large pointing abscess. The next point is to open the uterus with as little loss of blood as possible, and this can be done by placing a flat vulcanite pessary upon the uterine wall around the point to be incised, as in Fig. 3. The operator with the fingers of his left hand applies pressure upon the pessary, whilst his assistant does the same on the opposite side. The incision is then made with two or three strokes of the scalpel, and the blood sponged away by the assistant with his right hand.