443 LIVER, DISEASES OF the case. In long-standing cardiac disease a considerable amount of alcohol is often given, which again might lead to cirrhosis. On the other hand, dilatation of the heart due to alcoholic excess may induce chronic venous engorgement in a liver already cirrhotic. Still, with all these possibilities the liver is, as an actual fact, very seldom genuinely cirrhotic in chronic venous engorgement. Histology. — The intralobular veins are dilated, and their capillaries are two or three times larger than normal from distension with blood. This dilatation spreads outward through the lobule as the condition of passive engorge- ment becomes more marked. The liver-cells in the centre of the lobule are atrophied from pressure and malnutrition, inas- much as their supply of oxygen is curtailed by the venous stagnation. They degenerate and contain haematoidin, an iron-free product, derived from the red blood corpuscles. This pigmentation must be distinguished from the infiltration of the cells in the peripheral zone of the lobule with hsemosiderin, an iron contain- ing pigment, seen in pernicious antemia. The cells in the peripheral parts of the lobule undergo fatty change. As a result of the atrophy of the liver-cells the supporting fibrous framework of the liver becomes more prominent, and in some instances sporadic cirrhosis is seen. This fibrosis may be especially marked directly underneath the capsule of the liver: to the naked eye this gives an appearance not unlike that of universal chronic perihepatitis. Physical Signs. — The liver is enlarged, uniformly smooth, and tender. The tenderness is due to the distension and stretching of the capsule. The size of the liver varies consider- ably from time to time, and depends on the condition of the right side of the heart; efiicient cardiac treatment may, therefore, rapidly have a marked effect. In a small percentage of cases the liver pulsates with each beat of the heart. In 235 cases of tricuspid regurgitation it was present 15 times, and in 87 cases of tricuspid stenosis on 8 occasions (Pitt). True expansile pulsation, compared to that of an accordion, is best felt with one hand in the right loin and the other over the anterior surface of the liver. It is due to the blood being driven into the hepatic veins with each beat of the heart. It should be remembered that not uncommonly the liver receives a jog from the contraction of a dilated or hypertrophied right ventricle, but there is no expansion of the organ. Similarly, in rare cases pulsation may be communicated to the liver from an abdominal aneurysm. In ex- pansile pulsation the blood regurgitates more easily into the left lobe, which, therefore, pulsates more freely. The enlarged liver may push up the right leaflet of the diaphragm, and lead to some collapse of the case of the right lung, with dulness and absence of breath sounds. In some instances pleural effusion may occur. Sometimes as a result of infection there may be some acute perihepatitis, with friction audible or even palpable over the liver. The urine is concentrated, high coloured, and lithatic. It may contain excess of urobilin, which has been regarded as a sign of hepatic insufficiency (Hayem). There is sometimes albuminuria without any gross lesion of the kidney, due in all probability to chronic venous congestion impairing the vitality of the epithe- lium covering over the glomerular tufts. As a result, albumin is allowed to leak into the cavity of Bowman's capsule. Alimentary glyco- suria has in rare instances been noticed. Auto-intoxication is favoured in several ways:— (1) The liver being ill-nourished, from venous stagnation impeding the advent of arterial blood, does not destroy poisons absorbed from the alimentary canal so completely as in health. Toxic bodies, therefore, pass into the general circulation. (2) Portal congestion favours the manufacture of toxic products in the intestines; hence poisons in increased quantity are carried to the liver. (3) Chronic venous engorgement of the kidneys interferes with proper renal excretion. The symptoms referable to chronic venous engorgement of the liver are heaviness and dis- comfort in the right hypochondrium. Definite pain may be met with when perihepatitis is implanted on the engorged liver. The chronic portal engorgement gives rise to slow and feeble digestion, loss of appetite, dyspepsia, flatulence, and tympanites; while gastro- intestinal catarrh is readily set up. The condition of the alimentary canal interferes with assimilation, and the patient's general nutrition is impaired ; this is especially the case in growing children in whom miti'al disease with backward pressure on the portal system may be considered as a wasting disease. Extension of catarrh to the biliary papilla may occur. The slight icteric tint of the conjunctiva and skin, so characteristic of advanced mitral disease, is due either to this cause or to slight cholangitis of the small intrahepatic ducts. This jaundice is slight and not due to complete obstruction. Occasionally a terminal infection, leading to acute degenera- tive changes in the liver-cells and icterus gravis, may carry the patient off". Orthopncea and dyspnoea are mainly dependent on the primary lesion, but in hepatic insufficiency there may be dyspnoea of a ureemic type due to auto- intoxication. Oedema of the feet and ascites are common accompaniments of this hepatic condition; in 235 cases of tricuspid regurgitation oedema