LIVER, DISEASES OF 448 the liver. Its weight is usually between 15 and 40 oz. It shows peritoneal adhesions, and on section is firmer than normal, and micro- scopically presents lymphatic hyperplasia and fibrosis. The lymphatic glands in the portal fissure are sometimes enlarged, but are so soft that they do not exert pressure on the bile ducts. They are dark in colour and oedematous ; microscopically there is fibrosis and pigmentation. Besides those in the hilum of the liver the glands around the pancreas may be similarly affected. In some exceptional instances glandular enlarge- ment has been detected in distant parts of the body, in the axilla, the groin, the mediastinum, and the neck (Popoff). The alimentary canal is usually free from signs of past inflammation. Hanot noted that the duodenum in the region of the biliary papilla was not affected by catarrh; Debove's experience, however, is rather in the opposite direction. The pancreas is not increased in size, but shows a very intimate embryonic fibrosis spread- ing from the ducts, and thus resembling the changes described in the liver. All the organs are bile-stained. .Symptoms.—The onset may be gradual, and before jaundice sets in malaise, loss of strength, and in some cases dyspepsia may be noticed. Jaundice is slight at first, and becomes more marked as the disease progresses; it is perma- nent, but varies in degree, being intensified at intervals when exacerbations in the disease occiir. After these crises it recedes, and eventually it may become green. The abdomen enlarges from the increase in size of the liver and spleen, and there is dull pain and tenderness in the hepatic region. It is noteworthy that there is no enlargement of the subcutaneous veins on the abdominal wall. The tongue is furred; the appetite is some- times poor, but in other cases is good; there is said not to be any distaste for fatty food as there often is in obstructive jaundice. Ex- ceptionally the appetite is ravenous. Nausea and vomiting may occur, but are by no means constant. Diarrhoea is often present. The motions contain bile; this is a point of dis- tinction between the disease and obstructive jaundice with hepatic enlargement. From time to time attacks of abdominal pain with fever and increase in the degree of jaundice occur; these exacerbations are like those seen in pernicious anfemia and in Addison's disease. Occasionally acute degenerative changes in the liver-cells occur in one of those attacks, with the result that the jaundice becomes deep; delirium, nervous symptoms, and a typhoid condition develop, and death follows. The jaundiced skin may become very dark in colour, even resembling melanodermia; it may also be very irritable, and become covered with an eczematous or lichenous eruption. The long-continued jaundice may lead to xanthe- lasma. When the disease occurs in childhood, growth is naturally interfered with, and the appear- ance may be infantile, and bodily development greatly retarded, so that the onset of puberty is arrested. In some rare instances clubbing of the fingers and toes with deformities of the nails have been noticed. Examination with X-rays has shown that there is no bony enlarge- ment of the terminal phalanges. In their spleno-megalic type of biliary cirrhosis occur- ring in children, Gilbert and Fournier have further recorded enlargements of the ends of the long bones, pain in the joints, and synovial effusion. These lesions, which resemble Marie's hypertrophic pulmonary osteo-arthropathy, are extremely rare in biliary cirrhosis, and are not dependent on pulmonary lesions. They are not limited to this form of jaundice, for they were marked in a case in St. George's Hospital under the care of Dr. Ewart, in which a gumma ob- structed the bile ducts of a boy aged seventeen years. The bulbous or " Hippocratic " fingers have been found associated with perforating ulcer of the foot and neuritis in hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. The blood may show leucocytosis, thus diff'er- ing from common cirrhosis where it is not found. It was found in three cases by Hanot and Meunier where there was no cause for it, such as inflammation elsewhere, and they quote two other cases, making five in all. Kirikow, how- ever, finds that leucocytosis is not constant. The heart tends to dilate, and its contractions are somewhat feeble, but its rate is not slowed. Epistaxis and hsemorrhages from the gums and in the skin are frequent in the later stages, but the copious hsjematemesis met with in common cirrhosis rarely occurs. The urine is acid, diminished in quantity and high-coloured, but not prone to lithatic deposit as in common cirrhosis. Albumin and sugar are absent; owing to the liver-cells being pre- served, at any rate for a considerable time, in good nutrition, glycosuria cannot be produced by giving syrup or sugary food by the mouth. (Absence of alimentary glycosuria.) Urea is diminished in amount. Bile pigment is prac- tically always present in the urine. The toxicity of the urine is feeble, and this has been used as an argument against the view that hyper- trophic biliary cirrhosis is primarily due to a general hjEmic infection. Physical Signs.—The liver is much enlarged, and smooth, and firm to the touch ; occasionally it is slightly irregular from the presence of perihepatitic adhesions. It is uniformly in- creased in size. Its didness often extends upwards to the fourth rib in the right nipple line, and downwards to the umbilicus, or even