JAUNDICE 54 The motions nearly always contain bile, and thus differ from the clay-coloured stools of icterus due to obstruction. The course of the disease is more acute as a rule than in obstructive icterus, and is not ac- companied by the itching of the skin, xanthopsia or yellow vision, and slow pulse that may occur in obstructive jaundice. Signs of constitutional disturbance, such as enlarged spleen, fever, and albuminuria, are common, while grave symptoms develop sooner and moi'e frequently than in obstructive jaundice, where, when they do occur, it is at the termina- tion of long-continued jaundice. In severe cases of haemohepatogenous jaundice the " typhoid state," with dry tongue, delirium, coma, and multiple hfemorrhages, may rapidly develop. The important features, therefore, are the slight degree of jaundice and the presence of marked constitutional symptoms, the want of proportion between the icterus and the symptoms, and the evidence of hsemic infection or intoxication. After Hunter, hasmohepatogenous or toxasmic jaundice may be divided into— (i.) Toxic jaundice, due to poisons, such as toluylenediamine, arseniuretted hydrogen, phos- phorus, snake poison. (ii.) That occurring in connection with the specific fevers, such as yellow fever, pyaimia, septicaemia, relapsing fever, and malaria. (iii.) A group containing acute yellow atrophy, icterus gravis, infectious jaundice (Weil's disease). Obstructive Jaundice Signs.—Jaundice appears first in the con- junctiva, then successively on the face, body, and extremities. The "whites" of the eyes are the first part to show the bile pigment, but before this bile pigment is present in the urine. The masses of fat (pinguecula) often seen under the conjunctiva3 frequently have a slightly yellow colour, and may mislead a careless observer into the belief that jaundice is present. A slight degree of icterus is more readily detected in a fair-skinned patient than in one of a dark com- plexion, in whom the skin is often somewhat sallow. It should also be remembered that jaundice is easily overlooked in artificial light. The mucous membrane of the lips and palate shows an icteric tint. When jaundice has existed for a long time the bile pigment in the skin turns of a dark green colour (biliverdin), and tiie skin becomes of an olive-green colour, spoken of as "black jaundice." After recovery from severe jaundice the skin is often left discoloured for a very considerable period. In jaundice continued for more than a year the skin may show the peculiar change known as xanthoma or xanthelasma. When as the result of complete biliary obstruction, or from other causes, the protective function of the liver fails, and toxins pass into the circulation and give rise to cholsemia or biliary toxaemia, haemorrhages may take place into the skin and mucous membranes, giving rise to petechiae, epistaxis, melaena, etc. The ui'ine is acid in reaction, somewhat diminished in amount, and becomes bile-stained before the conjunctiva or skin. There may be also a considerable excess of urobilin. Stress was formerly laid on the presence of bile acids in the urine as a point of importance in the diagnosis from jaundice occurring without manifest obstruc- tion to the ducts. The test relied on for the detection of bile acids in ordinary clinical work, Pettenkofi^er's, is so fallacious that no value can be attached to its result, and hence the question of bile acids in the urine is no longer of any practical importance. The colour of the urine varies in different cases and at dilTerent times, from an intensified yellow to brown, olive, or a very dark brown. When shaken up the froth becomes yellow. The colour must be dis- tinguished from that in urobilinuria, hajmaturia, melanuria, and the alteration effected by rhubarb and chrysophanic acid, by senna and santonin, by employing Gmelin's test for bile pigment. When choli^mia or biliary toxaemia has super- vened, the renal epitheliiun may be so damaged by toxins that albuminuria results. The other secretions as a rule do not contain bile ; sometimes the sweat, especially in the axilla, is undoubtedly bile-stained, but generally the perspiration is colourless. The secretion of the intestines and nose, the saliva, tears, and, in women, milk, are, in spite of statements to the contrary, free from bile. In inflammatory conditions the pathological secretions and exuda- tions become icteric, as shown by pneumonic sputum, pleural and peritoneal effusions, and saliva in mercurial salivation. In obstructive jaundice there is constipation, and the motions are extremely offensive. They are clay-coloured from absence of bile and the presence of an excess of fat, the digestion of which is interfered with. Exceptionally bile may be present in the faeces, for example, when jaundice is due to obstruction to one of the two hepatic ducts, where a calculus in the common du6t allows some of the bile to escape into the duodenum. The Circvlatory System.—In the absence of fever or pain the pulse tends to be slow ; this has been ascribed to the action of the bile snlts on the cardiac ganglia. It is, however, especially in catarrhal jaundice that the slowing is chiefly marked. The blood-pressure is low. Though from the destructive (haemolytic) action of bile acidsjon red blood corpuscles anaemia might be expected, it is not a marked result of jaundice itself. Fi'om muscular incompetence a mitral systolic