48 IRISIN pseudacorus or Gladiolus luteus; iridin is also called irisin. Iritis.—Inflammation of the iris. See Iris AND Ciliary Body ; see also Adrenalin {Uses); Cataract {A fter Treatment of Extraction, Infection); Cornea {Interstitial Keratitis, Complications); Gout {Eye Symptoms); Herpes {Complications); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro- spinal {Symptoms, Eyes); Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms); Rheumatism, Chronic {Clinical Eeatures); Syphilis {Acquired, Secondary, Tertiary, in Children); Typhoid Fever {Ocular C omplications). Iron. See Ferrum ; see also Anaemia- Children, Clinical Examination {Examination of Fceces); Chlorosis ; Diet {Mineral Con- stituents of Food); Drug Eruptions {Papular) ; Pharmacology ; Physiology, Protoplasm {Ferro-Proteids); Physiology, Blood {Con- stituents) ; Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Melanins) ; Toxicology {Perchloride of Iron); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Inorganic Constituents, Metals). Irreducible Hernia. See Hernia {Conditions of, Irreducibility). Irrespirable Gases.—Gases which, when breathed, cannot support life, or which cannot be breathed on account of their causing spasm of the glottis. Irrig'ation.—The cleansing of a part, external or internal, by a continuous slender stream of water; also, a metliod of the disposal of sewage. See Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Irriqation); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Chi 'onic Cystitis, Treatment); Enemata {Irri- gation of the Bowel); Intestines, Surgical Affections of {Intestinal Obstruction, Treat- ment) ; Sewage ; Sewage and Drainage {Sewage Farms). Irritability. See Paralysis {Spastic, Muscle Tonus, MyotaticIrritahility); Physiology, Tissues (Muscle, Physical Characters). Irritable.—Capable of being irritated and thrown into spasm, generally painful, e.g. irritable bladder {see Urination, Disorders of. Frequency of Micturition); irritable ulcer {see Ulcers and Ulceration, Irritable Condition); and irritable spine {see Neurasthenia, Sjyinal Irritation). Theoretically, inflammation is regarded as absent. Irritants.—The term irritants is usually applied to drugs which, by their local action, cause redness of the skin (dilatation of the vessels), and it includes rubefacients, vesicants, pustulants, and caustics {e.g. ammonia, ether, iodine, croton oil, etc.). Irritant poisoning is that due to the ingestion of such irritants as Arsenic, Antimony, Mercury, Lead, Copper, Silver, Zinc, and Chromium {see Toxicology, Irritants); and, strictly speaking, it does not include the action of the corrosives, such as the mineral acids, carbolic acid, and the alkalies. Isaconitina.—Isaconitine or napelline is an amorphous alkaloid, obtained from the Aconititm NapeUus. See Alkaloids. I sad e I p h i a.—That type of double monster in which there are two symmetrically developed and united foetuses attached only by soft tissues. Isapiol.—An isomer of apiol (CigHj^O^), which it closely resembles. See Apiol. Isatropyl-Cocaine.—A poisonous base (C|gH23NOj found in coca, and differing chemi- cally from cocaine in having an isatropyl group instead of a benzoyl one ; cocamine. Ischsemia.—A condition of local and partial ansemia (Gr. Itr^, I check, and atyaa, blood). Ischaemic Paralysis. See Muscles, Diseases of {Changes in Muscles due to Vascular Paralysis). Ischia. See Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline). ISChiadelphia.—The type of double monster in which the foetuses are united by the pelves (Gr. laxtov, the hip-joint). ISChiagra. Gout in the hip-joint. See Gout. ISChialg'ia.—Pain in the hip-joint. See Hip-Joint, Injuries and Diseases of. ISChidrOSiS.—Suppression of perspiration (Gr. L(Tx<i>, I check, and tS/jois, perspiration). ISChiO-.—In compound words ischio- means relating to the ischium or to the hip, e.g. the ischiococcygeus muscle. ISChiOCele.—Ahernia protruding through the great sciatic notch. ISChiomeluS.—A type of double monster in which the parasitic foetus consists of an accessory limb attached to the pelvis of the autosite {e.g. Dos Santos, the "human Tripod.") ISChiopag'US.—A type of symmetrical double monster in which the twins are united by the innominate bones, and in which there is a single pelvic cavity ; lecanopagus. Ischium.—The posterior and inferior part of the innominate bone, originally constituting a separate portion in early antenatal life and entering into the composition of the acetabulum. Ischl. See Balneology {Austria, Muriated Waters); Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline).