380 LENS (CRYSTALLINE) principal parts of the eye which have to do with the formation of retinal images. For this reason they are transparent. In addition, the lens is capable of altering its focus, so as to admit of retinal images being obtained of objects lying at different distances from the eye. For this pur- pose (accommodation, as it is called) the lens is so constructed as to admit of its shape altering in accordance with the state of contraction of the ciliary muscle (see " Accommodation," vol. i.). The lens is an epithelial structure, and as such continues to grow throughout life, though only comparatively slowly after the end of foetal life, and still more so after adult life is reached. It develops from a thickening of the ectoderm which comes to lie in contact with the primitive optic vesicle on either side. This thickening becomes involuted and cut off at its neck, so as to form a sac which is eventually filled up mainly, and at first wholly, by the proliferation of the cells of its posterior wall. The portion of ectoderm, on the other hand, which closes over the front of the lens epithelium afterwards becomes the epithelial layer of the cornea. The cells of the posterior wall of the lens sac become gradually more and more elongated into the so-called lens fibres, whilst those of the anterior wall develop into the single layer of cubical cells which line the inner surface of the anterior capsule, and which exei'cise an im- portant influence in afterwards maintaining the transparency of the lens. The more peripheral of these cells, however, those which lie towards the equator of the lens, also undergo an elongation, but not until the lens has become solid. The resulting fibres, the shorter ones of which are nucleated like the cubical cells, have to do with the subsequent growth of the lens, and constitute what is known as the transitional zone. The development of the lens, so far as its transparency and position goes, is complete before the end of tetal life. During life the healthy lens remains transparent; at first, too, it is perfectly colourless, though in advanced age it develops a more or less marked yellowish colouration. It is approximately, though not accurately, centred with the cornea, its axis deviating usually about 5° from that of the cornea, and is held in position by the suspensory ligament or Zonule of Zinn, the fibres of which are firmly incorporated with its capsule mainly at its anterior and posterior peripheral portions. The suspensory ligament has also a firm attach- ment to the ciliary body and its processes, so that the state of contraction of that muscle influences the degree of tension which the capsule exerts on the lenticular fibres {vide " Accommodation "). The lens capsule is a homogeneous trans- parent membrane whose histogenesis is not altogether clear. Though continuous, it is com- monly divided by anatomists into an anterior and posterior position. The anterior capsule is considerably thicker than the posterior. The lens capsule is strong and elastic. The body of the lens, though elastic, is of much less firm consistency than the capsule. At first its consistency is pretty much the same throughout; but before the age of thirty there has developed in its centre a portion, the so- called nucleus, which always increases in size, and forms, therefore, a larger proportion of the whole lens as age advances. There is, however, no sudden transition between the nuclear and the surrounding cortical portion. The formation of the nucleus is due to loss of liquid, and probably also to the absence of meta- bolic changes. Its consequent greater density causes it to be more highly refractive than the cortex. Owing to this, some reflection of light takes place at its surface; this gives rise to the grey appearance of the pupil in elderly people so different from the pure black which characterises the pupil of the young. The hardening process also causes a diminution of elasticity, and a consequent diminution in the range of accommodation. Helmholtz has shown that, owing to the gradual change in the density of the successive layers of the crystalline lens, its focal power is greater than if it possessed throughout the same density as it has in its nuclear portion. The lens exercises a considerable power of absorption of both actinic and heat rays. Its nutrition is supplied by liquid from the ciliary processes which enter the capsule mainly in the region of the equator. Displacements of the lens can only occur where, from accident ^ or disease or faulty development, the suspensory ligament is wholly or partially defective in structure or attachments. Con- genital displacement of the lens, ectopia lentis, which is due to defective development of a portion of the ligament usually in the neighbour hood of the fostal slit, is generally bilateral. It is hereditary, and frequently met with in several members of the same family. In one instance known to the writer seventeen members of a family (in three generations) were affected in this way. The diagnosis of ectopia lentis is easily made. The iris quivers on movements of the eye (irido- donesis), and on examination with the ophthal- moscope mirror part of the margin of the lens is seen to cross the pupil. When the displace- ment is very slight this may only become visible if the pupil is dilated. In many cases vision is improved by the use of glasses. In some cases concave glasses which correct the myopia exist- ing in that part of the pupil which lies in front of the lens are the most suitable; in other cases the greatest improvement is got by the use of convex glasses correcting the area from opposite ^ See "Eyeball, Injuries of," vol. iii.