INVALID FEEDING 11 principle exerts siifficient action upon the milk in the stomach to ensure its digestion and proper assimilation. If the milk so prepared be not well borne, or any evidence appear of its imperfect digestion, it should be sufficiently predigested—peptonised—by the usual warm process. Milk by the " cold process" is especially suited for dyspeptics and persons who ordinarily find milk indigestible. This milk has no taste or evidence of the presence of the peptonising agent. Effervescent Peptonised Milk.—Put some finely cracked ice in a glass, and then half fill it with cold Apollinaris, Vichy, or carbonic water as preferred, then quickly pour in the peptonised milk and drink during effervescence. Peptonised milk may be made agreeable to many patients by serving with a little grated nutmeg, sweetened or flavoured with a little brandy, etc. Peptonised Gruel.—The gruel may be made from any farinaceous article in common use— oatmeal, Quaker oats, farina, arrowroot, barley, pea or lentil flour. The gruel should be well boiled. It is placed in a covered jar when it is below the tempera- ture of 140° F. Add liquor pancreaticus in proportion of 1 table-spoonful to 1 pint of griiel; and the jug is covered and kept warm as before. After standing for two hours, boil the mixture for five minutes and then carefully strain. The pancreatic ferments have two actions on the farinaceous matters :— 1. The starch of the meal is transformed into sugar. 2. The albuminoid matters are peptonised. Peptonised Milk Gruel.—This was very highly spoken of by Sir W. Roberts. It is an artifi- cially digested milk, and forms a complete and highly nutritious food for weak digestions. A thick gruel is made from any farinaceous material (see p. 15). To the boiling gruel add equal quantity of cold milk. This will then have a temperature of about 140° F. To each pint of gruel and milk add 3 tea- spoonfuls of liquor pancreaticus and 20 grs. of sod. bicarb. Let it stand covered in a warm place for two hours, boil for five minutes, and then strain. The bitterness of the predigestive milk is almost completely covered in this peptonised milk gruel, and most invalids will take it with- out the least objection. Peptonised Milk Lemonade Juice of 1 lemon. 1 table-spoonful of sugar. 1 gill peptonised milk. 1 gill effervescing watei-. Some small pieces of ice. Fill a small tumbler one-third full of cracked ice. Add the water, lemon juice, and the sugar to the ice, and then fill up the glass with milk. Pep)tonised Milk Punch. — Take a small tumbler, and fill it about one-third full of finely crushed ice; pour on to this a table- spoonful of St. Croix rum and half a table- spoonful of brandy, then fill the glass with peptonised milk, stir it well, sweeten to taste, and sprinkle over the top of the mixture a little grated nutmeg. Peptonised meat broths and teas can be made in the following manner :— I lb. lean beef finely minced. 1 pint water. 20 grains bicarbonate of soda. 1 table-spoonful of liquor pancreaticus. Mix together and simmer slowly for 1^ hours; when it has cooled down to 140° F. add liquor pancreaticus. Keep it warm under a cosy for two hours; occasionally shake it up. Then decant oft' the liquid portion and boil for five minutes. This has a relative value in nitro- genous materials almost equivalent to milk. The beef tea can be seasoned with celery seed cooked in the tea, or vegetable flavourings can be added by placing a small muslin bag con- taining some carrot, turnips, parsley, onion, in the tea while cooking, and afterwards removing it. If desirable, the tea can be thickened by the addition of a roux (paste) made with a little baked flour (p. 13). In addition to home-made peptonised beef teas and juices there are a large niuiiber of reliable proprietary medicines, of which may be mentioned Armour's nutrient wine of beef peptone; Benger's peptonised beef and chicken jelly ; Brand's beef, mutton, veal, and chicken peptone; and Fairchild's panopeton. This latter preparation claims to present bread and meat in a perfectly soluble form ; it is certainly very palatable. Messrs. Savory and Moore have manufactured for the use of invalids and convalescents a very palatable form of peptonised cocoa and milk, and also a concentrated peptonised milk and coffee (cafe zylak). These are delicious preparations, and can be much enjoyed even by people who cannot take cocoa or coffee in any other form. Recently a new preparation called somatose has been placed on the market. It claims to be a very concentrated and partially digested proteid substance, the albumin being mostly converted into albumose. It is a yellowish powder freely soluble in water, and forms almost a tasteless solution. It is usefvil in increasing the nutritive value of beef tea, etc. to which it may be added. Peptonised Sou2)S, Blanc-manges, and Jellies.— With a little ingenuity a variety of peptonised dishes can be obtained by preparing soups, blanc-manges, and jellies with peptonised ele-