40 IRIS AND CILIARY BODY Persistent remains of the impiUary membrane are sometimes found. The membrane is usually represented by one or more fine filaments which arise from the circulus arteriosus iridis minor (thus being distinguished from posterior synechise), and are attached either to the iris opposite or to the anterior capsule of the lens. Occasionally a definite membrane is seen in front of the lens. Iridodonesis, or trembling iris, is found in cases of congenitally dislocated lens. Inflammatory Conditions of the Iris and Ciliary Body.—Hypertemia of the iris attends many local inflammatory changes such as acute conjunctivitis; keratitis, especially if due to a foreign body deeply imbedded in the cornea; other forms of injury; and after intraocular operations, as iridectomy, cataract extraction, etc. Being the first stage of inflammation, its early recognition, combined with prompt treat- ment, will often cut short an impending attack of iritis. It is characterised by contraction and sluggish action of the pupil; slight discoloration of the iris with indistinctness of its reticulum ; engorgement of its vessels, which can often be seen with a strong magnifying lens; media which are not hazy; and a pupil whose outline is clear and which dilates fully and regularly under a mydriatic. The circumcorneal zone is injected, and lachrymation with photophobia is usually present. The treatment consists mainly in local depletion by leeches and the use of atropine. Inflammatory conditions of the iris and ciliary body are frequently found together; it will be well to consider the symptoms of each separately before seeing what their etiological factors are. Symptoms of Iritis.—The earliest symptoms are those of hyperjemia of the iris:—1. The mobility of the iris is diminished; its movements are either sluggish or lost, on account of spasmodic action of the sphincter pupillse. 2. The colour of the iris is altered. This change is sometimes very slight, but by care- ful examination with oblique focal illumination there will nearly always be found an alteration in the colour of the tissues surrounding the edge of the pupil. The two irides should be very carefully compared. In many cases the change in colour is very marked, the blue or gray iris becoming yellowish green, whilst the dark brown iris assumes a brownish red or rust colour. 3. The blood-vessels immediately surrounding the cornea are injected, forming a pink or deep red ring; there is conjunctival injection, with photophoV)ia and lachrymation. In addition to these, we have symptoms re- sulting from inflammatory exudation. Turbidity of the iris, due to exudation into its substance, and of the aqueous fluid, ensues. This pro- duces a muddy appearance of the pupil. Pus may collect in the anterior chamber (Jiypopyori), or an iridic vessel may rupture, causing haemor- rhage (JiyphcBimi). If the lymph which occupies the pupil becomes organised, we get an opaque persistent membrane, which may be perforated by one or more small apertures. This condition is termed occlusion of the jmpil. Again, lymph in the posterior chamber may become organised, forming adhesions between the iris and the capsule of the lens {posterior- synechice). If the whole of the pupillary margin is adherent to the lens capsule, the condition is termed annular piosterior synechia; the anterior chamber is cut off" from the posterior chamber {seclusion, or exclusion, of the pupil). Lastly, the whole of the posterior surface of the iris may be adherent to the capsule of the lens, a condition known as total posterior synechia. This, however, is rarely found in absence of cyclitis. Other symptoms of iritis are imp>aired vision and jmin. The amount of diminution of vision varies very considerably. With occlusion of the pupil there is very much less sight than with exclusion. Pain may be entirely absent, or may exist in various degrees of severity with- in the eye and in the surrounding parts. The amount depends largely on the etiological factor. Symptoms of Cyclitis.—This affection, which, when it occurs without iritis, is usually chronic, with few inflammatory symptoms, is recognised by a somewhat dilated sluggish pupil, a normal- looking iris, slightly raised tension, and by the presence of so-called keratitis punctata (or ^we- cipitates), being a dotted appearance on the lower part of the posterior surface of the cornea. Its pathology will be considered later. Cyclitis, when it accompanies iritis, is much more acute, and is recognised by the following additional symptoms: — (1) tenderness over the ciliary region ; (2) increased intraocular tension ; (3) vitreous opacities ; (4) total posterior synechia ; and (5) cellulitis of the eyelids and cheek. It is rare for cyclitis to occur without iritis, the irido-cyclitis usually found being that disease formerly named serous iritis, in contradistinction to plastic iritis with its marked exudation, as described above. In considering the etiology, pathology, diag- nosis, prognosis, and treatment, iritis and cyclitis will be taken together. Etiology of Iritis and Cyclitis.—In the large majority of cases of iritis and cyclitis the cause is some constitutional taint. It is j^robably only in the case of a perforating injury tliat iritis is a purely local affection. Cases of iritis occur, the cause of which cannot be discovered ; these, till they are better understood, are termed idiopathic. Hence we have the following etio- logical classification of iritis and cyclitis:—(1) Symptomatic ; (2) traumatic ; (3) idiopathic. In addition to these we have (4) secondary iritis, i.e. iritis following inflammation of neighbouring structures.