INVALID FEEDING 27 charine and specially prepared glycerine are available as ready and safe sweetening agents to take the place of sugar: saccharine, being intensely sweet, is only required to be used in very small quantities. Fish and vegetables are cooked and served with a liberal amount of butter. Salmon, herrings, mackerel, sardines in oil, pate de fois gras, cream cheeses, and rich sauces made with eggs, oil and cream, are specially iiseful in providing a fair supply of fatty foods. The various preparations of diabetic breads and biscuits in the market are made from al- monds and other nuts, bran, gluten, casein, etc. These can be obtained direct from the makers (Blatchley, London, and Callard & Co., London), or the ground nuts, etc. in the form of flour can be purchased and made up in the patient's own house. It should be noted that all reliable diabetic food-stuffs are expensive. Almond flour made into biscuits is very satis- factory ; the oil in their composition renders them a very desirable food in diabetes. Almonds in a solid form, unripe fruits and rhubarb, sweetened with saccharine or neutral- ised with an alkali, have to take the place of ripe fruit. The deprivation of starch is the greatest trial to all patients, and to many this restriction be comes so irksome that the strictness of the dietary has to be relaxed. However, there are at the present time a great number of sub- stitutes which can be tried to make bread and biscuits, some totally free from starch ; others, again, containing small quantities are apt to cause indigestion, but when broken into a powder the process of digestion is not interfered with. Cocoa-nut, hazel-nut, and pine seeds are also available in powder forms, and these are made into biscuits, which are flavoured in various ways. Bran flour is another product which, if care- fully prepared, is entirely free of starch ; this can be bought by the pound and made into bran cakes or bread. Biscuits can be pi'ocured, either plain or mixed with almonds, cocoa-nut, etc. These latter are certainly very palatable. Gluten bread in slices, and dinner rolls, are other almost starch-free articles ; they are fairly satisfactory, and are quite edible when eaten with butter. Gluten flour or farina contains, in good speci- mens only, a small quantity of starch, about 10 per cent. French gluten farina is one of the purest varieties; the ordinary makes con- tain 25 to 42 per cent of starch ; this can be made into loaves, girdle and oven scones. A special form of brown bread, which is very like ordinary brown bread, but contains no starch, is now prepared by Messrs. Callard. Casein biscuits are very palatable. Soy flour and biscuits are not at all palatable, and in addition contain generally 24 per cent of starch (Kinch). Most aleuronat biscuits are almost inedible. Every medical man should test all these articles to see if they are adulterated with starch. The presence of starch can easily be detected in food by applying a few drops of a solution of iodine in water, when the starch will immediately turn a violet-black. Torrified or much-toasted bread is recom- mended by some writers, who seem to think that by evaporating the water from a piece of bread, some of the starch is also got rid of; the fact is, that well-toasted bread contains nearly twice as much starch and dextrine as equal weight of ordinary bread. Almond Cake 1 oz. almond flour. 2 eggs. Salt to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the almond flour, and beat well together. Spread out into a buttered baking-tin about half an inch thick, and bake in a moderately quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. The mixture should be done quickly and baked as soon as the ingredients are mixed. These cakes are much improved by adding a small quantity of gluten flour. Cocoa-Qiuf or Almond Cakes 4 oz. desiccated cocoa-nut or almond flour. I pinch of saccharine. German yeast. 1 egg. 2 tea-spoonfuls cream. The almond flour is mixed into a paste with a little water and the German yeast. Allow the mixture to stand in a warm place for twenty minutes; then add the egg, two tea-spoonfuls of cream, and water sufficient to work the mixture. Divide into cakes and bake in a qtdch oven. Gluten bread in slices, cut into small pieces, soaked in butter and toasted or fried, is very palatable, and will be found a useful article in the preparation of many dishes. B7-an Calces 4 oz. prepared bran flour. 1 tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda. 5 eggs. \ pint of warm milk. 2 oz. butter. First mix the bicarbonate of soda with the bran flour; then beat up 2 ounces of butter in a warm basin, shake into it the dry ingredients, beating with a spoon all the time. Next beat up the five eggs in a separate basin before the fire until quite warm, and stir them gradually into the mixture of bran flour, soda, and butter. Beat up all well for ten minutes, and add gradually the warmed milk. Place in buttered