LABOUR, OPERATIONS—SYMPHYSIOTOMY 298 subcutaneous structures in the hypogastrium and mons veneris. The lower extremity of the incision terminates just above the upper margin of the symphysis pubis, and the deep part is widened by dissecting some of the muscular fibres from the pubic bone. An assistant pulls the urethra and bladder backwards with a metallic catheter, and the operator, pushing his finger down behind the symphysis, detaches the loose retro-pubic connective tissue, and guides a Galbiati knife down below the lower margin of the symphysis. With this knife, probe-pointed and sickle-shaped, with the cutting edge in its concavity, he divides the interosseous cartilage and ligaments from below upwards and from behind forwards, until a creaking sensation tells him the section is complete, and he feels the bodies of the pubic bones spring apart. This symphysiotomy is thus almost a subcutaneous operation. 2. The Parisian Method.—M. Pinard and his confreres divide the structures of the mons veneris in front of the symphysis in their entire length from above the pelvic brim to below the anterior commissure of the vulva, close to the clitoris, by an incision from 3 to 4 inches in length. When the pubic joint is exposed the recti in the upper part of the wound are separated to allow of the entrance of the finger into the pre-vesical cavity; this guides the bistoury which cuts through the symphysis from above downwards, and before backwards. 3. The Leipzig Method.—Professor Zweifel makes a transverse incision through the struc- tures in front of the symphysis, a finger's breadth or a little more below its upper margin. The fascia over the joint and for some distance above towards the umbilicus is laid bare, and the lips of the wound pushed up and down with the finger-nail till the lower margin of the sub- pubic ligament is exposed. The fascia between the recti is now divided, and a finger being pushed down into the recto-pubic space, the cartilage is cut through with a probe-pointed knife from above and in front downwards and backwards. Some operators have had difficulty in hitting on the joint tissues, and have had recourse to the use of a saw or chisel to diA'ide the osseous structures. This adds greatly to the dangers of the operation, and where patients survive the convalescence is prolonged and perhaps im- perfect. Dr. Sandstein, in his graduation thesis, points out that in 50 per cent only is the sym- physis median ; in 333 per cent it is to the left, and in 16| per cent to the right of the middle line, and that, further, it frequently slopes towards one side instead of being A^ertical. He finds a guide to its upper margin in a projection that can always be felt between the pubic bones at their upper margin, and that is continued as a ridge on the posterior aspect of the symphysis. When the symphysial tissues are severed, the bodies of the pubic bones spring apart spon- taneously to a distance of 2 to 4 cm. (| in. to 1|- ins.). If the patient is in the Walcher position, with the legs hanging down over the end of the table, the separation is greater. Zweifel avails himself of this tendency of the dependency of the limbs to strain the sym- physial structures at their upper margin to facilitate their section. Where a greater separa- tion of the bones is demanded, pressure is made on the inside of the limbs flexed upwards on the abdomen. They have sometimes been separated as much as 7"5 cm. (3 ins.); but a separation of from 5 to 6 cm. (2 ins. to 2|- ins.), or fully two fingers' breadth, gives the full advantage of the expansion without endangering the sacro-iliac ligaments. That one side of the pelvis is mov- ing more than the other can be recognised, according to Sandstein, by noting that the upper margin of the less mobile innominate remains at a higher level, and then it becomes necessary to make pressure on the inner side of the corresponding thigh, to stretch the sacro-iliac joint, and to prevent the sacro-iliac ligaments of the mobile side from being unduly strained and torn. Sometimes there is free bleeding from the incised soft parts that has to be checked with pressure forceps, or by the pressure of the fingers of the assistants who are controlling on the two sides the movements of the limbs. The wound is packed with iodoform gauze, or other- wise kept from the chance of any germ-invasion, whilst attention is given to— III. The Birth of the Child.—The dilatation of the pelvis may be sufficient to allow of the expulsion of the infant by the natural powers. During the transit of the head the pubic bones may be further separated and a fresh access of hifimorrhage set up; hence it is necessary to have an intelligent assistant at each side who will keep up such pressure on the trochanters as will prevent undue and dangerous distension. Where the parturient powers are insufficient for the expulsion, the operator must have re- course to the extraction of the infant, either by means of version and traction on its leg, or by application of forceps to its head, according to the conditions that emerge in each individual case. Whether the child be born naturally or extracted artificially, it has to be borne in mind that the anterior vaginal wall and the soft parts in relation with it are deprived of their usual bony protection, and may easily be stretched and torn to a degree that will endanger the patient's life or render her recovery imperfect. After the birth of the infant the obstetrician sees to the complete evacuation of the uterus and its usual post-partum contraction, before he turns again to complete the surgical intervention necessary to secure the union of the severed surfaces. IV. Closure of the Wound.—The Neapolitan procedure at this stage simply requires the care-