LEPROSY 389 localisation is associated with those changes that are symptomatic of leprosy, and that the cells of the organism undergo changes in pro- portion to the number of bacilli which they harbour. The bacillus itself has certain specific characters by which it can be distinguished from all other known bacilli. The inference is strengthened by the fact that the progressive changes in the tissues of a leper, and the manner in which the disease is propagated, harmonise with what is known of other bacillary diseases, and confirm this view. The bacillus has not yet developed in inocu- lated animals, and its cultivation in artificial media is not yet accepted. Campana, however, who has devoted much attention to this matter, considers that, if the bacilli which it is at- tempted to cultivate are taken from an early stage of the eruption, appearances which warrant the assumption that growth has taken place in the media may be obtained. After the first stage of the disease the bacilli are dead, and are incapable of propagation. The history of leprosy shows that the disease is conveyed from man to man. Its long period of incubation and slow development are obstacles to the discovery of the means by which infection is propagated. Clothes, shoes, bandages, etc., are suspected of being the media by which leprosy is spread. In Java, India, and Tonquin, where the people walk barefoot, the disease begins in the feet in one-half of the cases, the presumption being that the bacilli are contained in the soil, in which they have been deposited from leprous discharges. Sticker inferred, from an examination of four hundred lepers, that the initial lesion is usually in the nasal mucous membx-ane, in the cartilagi- nous portion, beginning as a simple ulcer, which sometimes precedes for several years the nerve symptoms and nodules. This ulcer was only missed in 13 cases in 153, and in 9 ovit of the 13 there were an abundance of bacilli in the nose; but Arning's successful inoculation at Honolulu shows that the bacilli may enter by other parts. The chief means by which the bacilli are spread abroad from the patient are through the mouth and nose in coughing and sneezing. Schaeffer calculated that a leper has only to speak aloud for two minutes to eject for a distance of a metre and a half and more 40,000 to 185,000 bacilli. Saliva, the mammary glands, the sperma, the female genital passages, often contain bacilli in large quantities, which are thus conveyed out- side. It has been stated that in Honolulu the common tobacco-pipe, which is passed from mouth to mouth, conveys the disease. That leprosy may be conveyed by direct contagion from the leper to a healthy man is proved by the record of several cases in which no fallacy was possible; that, for example, re- corded by Dr. Hawtrey Benson of Dublin. In this case a leper who acquired the disease in a tropical country shared the same bed with his brother, who had never been out of Ireland, and who afterwards became a leper. Diagnosis.—In a developed case of tubercular leprosy the diagnosis presents no difficulty to any one who has ever seen a case of the disease, or who has even seen good pictures of it; but in the early stage the diagnosis might be for a time less easy. There might for a time be a difficulty in determining whether the disease was leprosy or syphilis, but this difficulty should not last long. The development of the eruption differs greatly. Whilst in the early stages of a syphilide the eruption is distributed over the trunk and less markedly on the limbs, and gradually fades within the usual time, in the early stage of tubercvilar leprosy some part of the body is usually selected, and, after a time, the characteristic brown colour removes the doubt. In suspected leprosy the eyebrows should be especially examined, as the hairs are early lost, and the skin above the eyebrows soon thickens, giving rise to the well-known expression of the leper. The diagnosis of nerve leprosy in the early stage is often by no means easy, and errors are in these cases not uncommon. The writer has known the patches of early nerve leprosy mis- taken for body ringworm and for lupus. The anaesthesia, however, which can always be de- tected if carefully looked for, is distinctive. The fingers, toes, wrists, and dorsum of the feet should be carefully examined for evidence of anjesthesia, and in some parts of the spots themselves sensation will be found to be absent or perverted. Hansen and Looft suggest that in examining for anaesthesia calipers or very slight stroking should be used, as deeper pres- sure can be at once detected. They also call attention to the fact that in nerve leprosy the lymphatic glands will be found to be swollen. Nerve leprosy may also be mistaken for syringo- myelia, and a case has been published in France in which this disease was diagnosed, but in which its true nature was shown by leprosy bacilli being demonstrated in an excised portion of the ulnar nerve. There are other examples on record of the difficulty of diagnosing between these two diseases. It should be borne in mind that in syringomyelia, though there is loss of painful and thermal sensibility, tactile sensibility remains, and that in nerve leprosy there ought to be found the remains of the characteristic spots. Treatment.—The treatment of leprosy should consist of measures which are likely to enable the organism to resist the effects of the toxin, and to repair the tissues which have been damaged by the direct and indirect effects of the bacilli. Just as in recent years the effect of constant fresh air, hygiene, and good diet have had unlooked - for effects in enabling