JOINTS, DISEASES OF 73 usually a limp in walking. When the articular surfaces are involved, all movements, whether active or passive, are usually abolished, and the condition presented is one of fixation or rigidity ; this results from involuntary contraction of the muscles ; it disappears under an anaesthetic and returns again on waking. Its recognition is of great diagnostic value, especially in such deeply- seated joints as the shoulder, hip, and in those of the spine. Abnormal attitudes of the limb may precede other symptoms of joint disease, but are more frequently of later development; they are best illustrated by the well-known attitudes assumed in disease of the hip and knee {q-v.). Their production was ascribed by Bonnet to increased pressure within the joint and disten- sion of the capsular ligament; their real cause is the reflex or involuntary contraction of the muscles acting on the joint, with the object of placing it in an attitude in which there will be least suffering. Certain groups of muscles, e.g. the flexors at the knee, the flexors and abductors or adductors at the hip, assume the upper hand, either because they are more powerful or because they are specially thrown into contrac- tion. These attitudes disappear under chloro- form unless secondary changes have occurred causing contracture or ankylosis. In very in- dolent and mild cases these abnormal attitudes may be absent altogether. They occur earlier, and are more pronounced in cases in which pain and other irritative symptoms of articular disease are well marked. With the lapse of time these attitudes may not only become exaggerated, but may become permanent de- formities from changes within the joint in the direction of ankylosis, and from changes in the surrounding soft parts, e.g. shortening or contracture of the ligaments, muscles, fasciae, skin, and it may be also in the vessels and nerves. The occurrence of startings at night, which are frequently met with in the stage of muscular fixation, are the result of the sudden contact and jarring of the diseased articular surfaces when the muscles are relaxed during sleep; they are to be regarded as indications that the disease of the articular surfaces is progressive. They are more often met with in cases which go on to suppuration. The formation of abscess is one of the commonest accompaniments of tuberculous joint disease; it may appear early and play a pro- minent part in the clinical features, or it may develop long after the original disease has settled down ; it usually indicates the existence of a persistent lesion, and very often an osseous focus of some importance. It is said to be met with more often in patients with an inherited pi-edisposition to tuberculosis, in those with multiple lesions of the skeleton, and in those who are run down and emaciated. The forma- tion of the abscess is often attributed to a slight injury; it develops so insidiously that it may not attract the attention of the patient imtil it has attained a considerable size; this is especially the case with the abscesses which are associated with disease of the spine, pelvis, and hip. The abscess presents itself at definite situations in relation to the different joints, the selection being influenced by the anatomical relationships of the capsule and of the synovial membrane to the surrounding tissues. The bursse and tendon sheaths in the vicinity may influence the direction of spread of the abscess and the situation of the resulting sinus or sinuses. It will be referred to imder treatment that the formation of abscess in the course of tuberculous joint disease may sometimes be an advantage, for it may render a tuberculous focus more amenable to treatment, especially by the injection of iodoform. When left to itself, however, or when opened without precautions, abscess formation implies the risk of pyogenic infection, of persistent discharge, aggravation of the associated joint disease, progressive impair- ment of the general health, and greater liability to tuberculous meningitis. It was formerly possible to observe how often the course of the disease was altered for the worse, the inflam- matory symptoms became more acute, the pain greater, the fever higher, the swelling increased, the skin over the joint red, hot, and cedematous, and the discharge coming to resemble ordinary pus. When sinuses have been allowed to form, their course is often so tortuous that it may be difficult or impossible to pass a probe down to the focus from which the abscess took its origin. Infection of the lymphatic glands of the limb is exceptional; it may, however, follow upon infection of the skin around the orifice of a sinus. The occurrence of 2)yrex{a in tuberculous joint disease is usually an indication of the local progress of the disease in the direction of suppuration, or of the development of compli- cations elsewhere in the body; including dissemination of the tubercle, e.g. to the lungs, membranes of the brain, etc. A little rise of temperature in the evening may be induced in quiescent joint lesions by any mechanical dis- turbance of the tissues involved, by travelling or other exertion, by injury, by movement of the joint under chloroform for purposes of diagnosis, or for the correction of some ab- normal attitude or deformity. The development and progress of an abscess may also be attended with an evening rise of temperature ; when the abscess is quiescent the temperature usually remains normal. A carefully taken temperature chart may afford useful information as to the formation or spread of abscess. When sinuses have formed and have been allowed to become septic, there may be a diurnal variation in the temperature of the type known as hectic fever.