258 LABOUE, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE passed beneath it, so as to bring its walls to- gether when they are tied, will be found to be as satisfactory as, and less troublesome treatment than, the plug. If the tumour is of small size, it may be left to absorb. Suppuration should never occur ; if it does, the abscess must be opened at the spot at which it points, the pus evacuated, and the cavity plugged with iodoform gauze. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends upon the treatment adopted and on the situation of the hjemorrhage. Suprafascial bleeding is very much more dangerous than is infrafascial, on account of the difficulty of checking it if it does not cease of its own accord. In either case the patient may die of haemorrhage or sepsis. In the common form of hsematoma, neither should occur if the case is properly treated. Atonic H^bmorbhagb Atonic post-partum hfemorrhage is the term applied to haemorrhage due to the failure of the uterus to contract. Loss of blood occurs to a very slight extent in almost all cases of labour, as it is impossible for the placenta to be detached and expelled without such an occurrence. It is only when the amount lost becomes excessive that the term post-partum hfemorrhage can be applied to it. The average amount of blood lost, taking clots and fluid blood together, is four ounces before the placenta is delivered, and six ounces with the placenta and membranes (Dakin). According to Winckel, as soon as the patient has lost from 400 to 500 grams (fourteen to seventeen ounces) of blood, active treatment with the object of preventing further loss must be commenced. Frequency. — The frequency of atonic post- partum hfemorrhage depends entirely upon what amount of hfemorrhage we consider can be called post-partum hfemorrhage. In the Rotunda Hospital, amongst 13,549 confinements there were 167 which required some form of treatment more radical than the massage of the fundus and the administration of ergot—that is, one case in 81'13. Amongst these a few cases of traumatic hfemorrhage are included. ^Etiology. — Before starting to discuss the causes of atonic post-partum haemorrhage it is well to understand the factors which normally prevent its occurrence, as by so doing its aetiology will be rendered more obvious. The haemorrhage which occurs during the detach- ment and expulsion of the placenta is nor- mally checked by the united action of three factors :— (1) The Contraction of the Muscular Coat of the Uterus.—The contractions of the muscular coat of the uterus bring about a temporary cessation of hfemorrhage during their occur- rence. Each fibre of the uterus diminishes in length, and as a result the whole organ be- comes almost as firm and hard as a billiard ball. and all the supplying arteries are compressed. As soon as the contraction passes off—and it only lasts a very short time—the uterine fibres return to their original length, the compression of the vessels ceases, and the haemorrhage would re- commence if another factor quite distinct from, but in a manner dependent on, the contraction was not also occurring. This factor, which is the most potent agent in causing the permanent cessation of the haemorrhage, is the retraction of the uterine muscle fibres. (2) The Retraction of the Uterine Muscle Fibres.—By the retraction of the uterine muscle fibres is meant a process which implies a per- manent change in the relationship of the fibres to one another. During every contraction not only does each fibre shorten, but it becomes drawn upwards a very minute distance towards the fundus, i.e. it retracts. As a consequence, fibres which at the commencement of a con- traction were end to end, at the completion of the contraction may have their ends overlapping one another, and after a few more contractions may have come to lie parallel. This new position of the muscle fibre, brought about by its gradual retraction, is a persistent position. It brings about the progressive diminution in size of the Titerus, which is required to suit the diminution in the uterine contents as the foetus is expelled during labour ; and, after delivery, it brings about a final reduction in size, which is sufficiently marked to cause a permanent kinking and compression of the placental vessels. Accordingly, retraction is the process to which the final and permanent checking of haemorrhage is due ; but it must also be remembered that retraction itself is due to the occurrence of contraction. Contraction alone is not sufficient to check haemorrhage permanently, but it is the means by which a permanent check is provided. (3) The Clotting which occurs in the Mouths of the Vessels.— The clotting which occurs in the mouths of the vessels is so unimportant a factor in the checking of haemorrhage that it may be almost neglected. It may be the direct cause of the cessation of haemorrhage in a few very small vessels, but it will probably be more correct to consider its occurrence as being the result of the haemorrhage ceasing rather than as a cause of its doing so. The above are the normal agencies by which the occurrence of post-partum haemorrhage is prevented. Accordingly, we are now in a better position to understand what are the conditions which will favour the occurrence of haemorrhage. Speaking generally, the latter may be said to be anytliing which tends to prevent the due retraction of the uterine muscle fibres, either directly as a retained adherent placenta, or in- directly, by preventing contraction from taking place, fis degeneration of the fibres from some pathological condition.