KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE EEGION OF 133 met with in women; the gummatous swelling is more nodular, imeven, and less uniform than the tiiberculous; there are frequently tertiary ulcers or depressed scars in the neighbourhood of the patella, and the joint symptoms are less prominent. When there is in addition gum- matous disease of the tibia or femur, with sinuses leading down to carious bone, the diagnosis may be extremely difficult, especially as the over- whelming frequency of tubei'culous disease predisposes one to assume that the disease is of this nature, and the syphilitic origin is apt to be missed because it is not suspected. The very early stages of tuberculosis and of arthritis deformans of the knee may resemble each other very closely because the respective clinical peculiarities have not liad time to develop. Difficulty is met with, especially in adults, who complain of pain, stiffness, and lameness, and who present a moderate amount of swelling of the joint with or without effusion. In arthritis deformans the progress is more intermittent and erratic, the symptoms are rather aggravated than improved by rest, and they are influenced by changes in the weather. The presence of crackings or of creaking on movement, the sensation of roughness or crepi- tation on grasping the joint while it is rapidly flexed and extended, and, finally, the presence of crackings and irregular pains in other joints, may be of help in recognising arthritis defor- mans. A resemblance between tuberculous and pyogenic affections of the hiee may arise when there is a partial infection of the joint, resulting from a focus in one of the neighbouring bones. There is less likelihood of mistake when the tuberculous lesion assumes, as it does occasion- ally, an acute character, because the general feature and the progress of the disease clear up the difficulty before much time has been lost. Staphylococcus lesions, on the other hand, e.g. Brodie's abscess, whether in the upper end of the tibia or lower end of the femur, may run a chronic course, and may be associated with changes in the knee-joint (swelling, effusion, adhesions) which are very similar to those resulting from tuberculosis. The history of the case and the local features must be gone into very carefully, and the bones should be examined by radioscopy. Cases of tuberculous disease of the knee may occasionally present themselves with the symp- toms of loose body in the joint; the recognition, however, of the other evidences of joint disease is usually sufficient to differentiate them from the more numerous group of cases in which the loose body (or bodies) is the only discoverable lesion in the joint. Cases are on record in which treatment has been carried out for tuberculous disease of the knee, and in which the after progress has shown the patient to be suffering from sarcoma of the lower end of the fenmr, or of the synovial mem- brane of the knee. It may be instructive to refer to the points in which disease of the knee-joint and sarcoma, especially of the lower end of the femur, re- semble one another :—The initial symptoms are often those of vague pains and of a limp, which may be relieved for a time by rest or by the application of a blister; at a later stage the characters of the swelling may be deceptive, as the tumour tissue may project from the bone into the upper recess of the joint; the swelling may be hot and tender, the muscles may be wasted, and the joint may be flexed and stiff; there may be considerable evening pyrexia greater than that observed in tuberculous disease of the knee—in the latter affection the temperature is usually quite normal so long as the patient is confined to bed. The following are the chief points favouring the diagnosis of sarcoma:—There is often a history that the swelling was first noticed on one side of the joint; the swelling is more often uneven or nodular; it does not accurately correspond to the shape of the synovial membrane, but extends beyond the limits of the joint, and involves the bone to a greater extent than is usual in cases of joint disease. The swelling is also more unequal in consistence, being harder than the synovial fungus in some parts, and softer or fluctuating in others. If a trocar and cannula is pushed into the swelling it may be felt to grate on roughened bone, or may even perforate the thin shell of the tumour, and it only abstracts blood. It is useful in difficult cases to confine the patient to bed, and fix the limb in a splint for a week until the oedema of the soft parts and any fluid in the joint have been absorbed ; the nature of the swelling, and the presence or absence of joint symptoms, can then be determined with greater accuracy. Radiography is most useful in cases where the bone is ex- panded by the tumour, or where much new bone is formed, as in the ossifying sarcoma. Finally, recourse should be had, without too long delay, to exploratory incision and imme- diate microscopic examination of the suspected tissue elements. The diagnosis of hysterical affections of the knee is the same as in other joints. The ^'■bleeder's knee" met with in the subjects of hfemophylia may resemble tuber- culous disease very closely indeed, especially when repeated hpemorrhages have taken place into the joint, and the latter has become swollen, stiff, and flexed. The differential diagnosis is considered in paragraph 6, p. 140. The prognosis in tuberculosis disease of the knee is chiefly concerned with the possible retention or loss of the functions of the joint, and, in the case of children, with the future growth of the limb. In hydrops and in mild forms of pri- mary synovial disease recovery with a movable joint may be confidently anticipated. When