LARYNX, NEUROSES OF 369 is rarely sufficient; often enough it must be persisted in for a considerable period. In neuritic palsies the submucous injection of strychnine into the affected muscles may be tried with advantage. In the more gross inflammatory lesions ice should be sucked, and counter-irritation in the form of mustard leaves, or the application of cold wet compresses, will be helpful. In bilateral abductor paralysis fatal asphyxia may arise at any moment, and therefore the patient should be either placed under such circumstances that tracheotomy can be per- formed whenever the necessity arises, or else tracheotomy or intubation should be performed. Intubation is not desirable except in those cases in which, owing to the nature of the lesion, recovery from the paralysis is possible. When laryngeal paralysis is produced by a section of the motor nerve, either in attempted suicide or in the removal of growths in the neck, the cut ends should be sutured, just as in similar lesions of other nerves. Hypertrophy op the Lingual Tonsil ^ The lingual tonsil resembles the faucial pharyngeal tonsils in its development, ana- tomical structure, and in the pathological con- ditions to which it is subject. It is, however, developed later than these other aggregations of lymphoid tissues, and in early childhood is often small and ill-developed ; and it is partly due to these facts, and partly to the special factors which result in its hypertrophy, that pathological conditions of the lingual tonsil are more prone to appear in adult life. Chronic enlargement of this tonsil may be due to previous acute lacunar or parenchyma- tous inflammatory attacks; but it may arise de novo as the result of chronic pharyngitis, or of long persistence of any of the many causes which commonly lead to chronic pharyngitis. Irregular rounded masses of the hypertrophied lymphoid tissue may then be observed by simply depressing the tongue, though better seen by the laryngoscopic mirror. The hyper- trophic tonsil may overlap or impinge against the upper surface of the epiglottis, concealing more or less completely the glosso-epiglottic fossse. In many individuals very considerable en- largement is unattended with symptoms, and these are without any clinical importance. But various symptoms are liable to arise— especially a constantly recurring troublesome cough, a sense of persistent discomfort, or a dragging sensation in the throat, or vocal impairment. As in chronic pharyngitis, so in lingual tonsillar hypertrophy, long-standing irritation is liable to result in some measure of conges- 1 Although in no wise a neurosis of the larynx, it is convenient to describe this condition in the present section {vide Symptoms, supra). VOL. V tion, and the veins ordinarily seen at the dorsum of the tongue may become enlarged and tortuous. It has been stated by some observers that this enlargement of the veins, which has been dignified with the name of lingual varix, is itself the cause of numerous local and reflex symptoms and of grave dis- comfort ; but from personal examination of a very large number of patients who com- plained of no throat symptoms whatever, I am able to assert that pronounced enlargement of the dorsal lingual veins is so frequently present in patients past middle life as to be practi- cally a normal condition, and without clinical importance. A lingual accessory thyroid gland is occasion- ally developed, appearing as a smooth, firm, round red swelling in the region of the foramen caecum. It consists of thyroid gland tissue, whereas simple hypertrophy of the lingual tonsil is composed of lymphoid tissue. The symptoms are very much the same in either form of enlargement, and the two conditions may easily be mistaken for one another. Treatment. — Simple adenoid hypertrophy, when productive of symptoms, should be removed, either by repeated applications of iodine in solution when the hypertrophy is only of moderate dimensions, or by ablation with a lingual tonsillotome when considerable in amount. Galvano-cauterisation is followed by much pain, and in some cases it has resulted in severe attacks of parotitis. For these reasons its employment for reducing the hypertrophy is generally undesirable. An accessory thyroid gland may be removed either by galvano-caustic snare or by enuclea- tion. But it is necessary to ascertain whether the normal thyroid gland is absent, in which case the lingual thyroid gland tissue should not be extirpated for fear of causing myxoedema. Affections of the Cartilages 1. Perichondritis— Etiology and Pathology . . . 369 Symptomatology .... 370 Diagnosis . . . . .371 Prognosis . . . . .371 2. Anchylosis of the Crico-arytenoid Joint . . . . . . .371 3. Stenosis of the Larynx . . .372 Treatment . . . . . .372 1. Perichondritis Etiology and Pathology.—Perichondritis of the larynx may be defined as an inflammation of the perichondrium covering the laryngeal cartilages, characterised in some cases by sup- puration, with necrosis and exfoliation of the cartilage in whole or in part, in other cases by a plastic inflammation, with the formation of a new fibrous connective tissue. 24