179 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM cases of occipito-posterior position more than in those with the occiput forwards, for after the head has descended somewhat into the brim the child will lie with the promontory of the sacrum fitting into the nape of its neck, and this tends to keep the cervical spine extended rather than flexed. Still, in the large majority of cases the causes leading to flexion manage to right this. Fig. 26.—First vertex. Pelvis of woman lying on her left side, seen from below. Biparietal diameter free. Also, as Herman points out, the sacro-cotyloid diameter in a normal pelvis is less than the full oblique diameter. Now when the occiput lies backwards the biparietal diameter occupies this sacro-cotyloid diameter, and is more retarded than if it lay in the full oblique (Figs. 26 and 27). In consequence flexion is somewhat interfered with, just as happens in similar Fig. 27.—Third vertex of same pelvis. Biparietal diameter gripped. conditions in certain forms (elliptic brim) of contracted pelvis. Diagnosis.—It can in most cases, by the unusual lowness of the anterior fontanelle, be determined after the head has passed the brim and is engaged in the cavity, that the occiput is going to rotate backwards. In well-flexed cases this fontanelle cannot be reached at this stage without some difficulty. Mechanism.—The description of this may begin when the occiput has just rotated into the sacrum. The forehead lies against the back of the symphysis. The head revolves round this, the occiput descending, probably much influenced by the fcetal-axis-pressure (see p. 174). The flexion is in most cases assisted by a slight gliding upwards of the forehead behind the pubes. As the head advances the occiput is pressed on to the pelvic floor and perineum, forcing the latter backwards and then passing- over its edge. Directly this has happened and the posterior pole of the head is free, it moves Fig. 28.—Persistent occipito-posterior. (Moulding of head exaggerated.) backwards still farther over the perinseum till the nape of the neck presses on the edge of the perineum. The head is now born by extension, and the forehead, face, and chin glide under the pubic arch. The shoulders come down with the shoulder which was originally forward still to the front. Modified Mechanism.—There is a modification of this mechanism which is occasionally seen. In it the forehead does not descend so low, and, in fact, hitches on the up- per edge of the sym- physis. Flexion takes place as be- fore, but at a higher level. The head often remains fixed in these cases, and labour is arrested. The vertex is found distending the peri- neum to some extent, and the cause of arrest is not readily obvious. When attempts at delivery are made by the forceps, the blades are put on with a little more difficulty than usual owing to the full diameter of the head not being able to be grasped by them; and when traction is made the forceps invariably slips off". The writer's experience, which is doubtless shared Fig. 29.—Rarer form of mechanism in persistent occipito-posterior cases.