KIDNEY 109 diagnostic importance. Eectal or vaginal ex- amination to determine the condition of the lower ureter is important. Treatment.—The only medical treatment, in the light of the pathology of the disease, is drastic purgation—calomel is especially indi- cated. Opium should be avoided, and the renal areas may be dry cupped. Operative interfer- ence (ureterotomy, pelvotomy, or nephrostomy) must not be delayed; it should be carried out between the third and fifth day. Eenal Tuberculosis There is, perhaps, no urinary disease of surgical importance so little understood by the profession at large or so injudiciously treated as urinary tuberculosis. Its initial obscurity, its insidious progress, its power of mimicry, and its extensive, often silent, invasion of adjoining sections of the urinary tract, tend to deceive, to disconcert, and finally to dishearten the practitioner. As likely as not, in well-meant effort to relieve the patient the medical attend- ant washes out the bladder, and thus unwittingly introduces those septic organisms which exert so baneful an influence upon the progress and amenability of the disease. It cannot be too strongly inculcated that renal tubercle, if it is to afford even a hopeful prognosis, should be, as it can he, detected early and treated judiciously. Pathology. — It is admitted that tubercle bacilli detached from any extra-urinary focus may be swept into and collect around the glomeruli of the kidney (Durand Fardel), and even pass out thence and be discovered in the urine without having caused any damage, either to the glands or to their conducting channels. A suitable nidus is therefore necessary for the development of tubercle in the kidney, and this is probably prepared by the deterioration of tissue induced by trau- matism, pre-existing inflammation, or transient congestions of the organ. Lines of Invasion.—The kidney may be in- vaded :— A. Primarily by way of the blood stream (hsemotogenous), or B. Consecutively by way of the ureter from some lower genito-urinary source (urinogenous). Each class has a characteristic initial macro- scopy and a definite initial symptomatology, and the treatment for each should, at least at first, be in accordance with the line of invasion. A. Primary Tuberculous Invasion of the Kidney {Hcematogenous Invasion).—The primary invasion of the kidney assumes one of two diff"erent forms—the acute miliary and the chronic caseating. Acute miliary tuberculosis of the kidney is devoid of interest, for it is the outcome of a general systemic infection arising usually from a deposit in the lungs. It occurs principally in children. It attacks both kidneys, is not usually diagnosable, is quite inoperative and imiformly fatal. Hence the practitioner con- cerns himself with the second—an important and often amenable class—the chronic caseating form. A. Primary Chronic Caseating Renal Tuber- culosis.—The initial stage of this form is nearly always unilateral. Its comparative frequency is still debatable; but there is no doubt that disease in this organ is more commonly met with than is generally believed (Israel). Its microscopy is as follows:—A few miliary tubercles, produced by the irritative action of tubercle bacilli deposited from the blood stream, form in the connective tissue at the junction of the cortex and medulla, or immediately under the mucous membrane of the pelvis. These pass through the usual well-known changes vmtil the final caseous necrosis stage is reached. By the coalescence of these isolated necrotic groups larger areas of disintegration are formed, whence fresh infection spreads outwards to the cortex or inwards towards the pelvic mucous membrane. Instead of an initial shower of tubercle bacilli producing discrete nodules, a single thrombus of tuberculous material may become lodged in and block a small renal vessel. The plug softens and invades the surrounding area to induce like changes. No matter what or where the anatomical starting-point of the deposit, the final shape, size, and destruction of the kidney depends upon the attitude of the tuberculous mischief towards the mucous membrane of the orifice of the pelvis. Early narrowing or occlusion of this opening leads to pyonephrosis and rapid destruction; whilst patency, by permitting the discharge of tuber- culous debris and urine, allows the gland to become gradually impaired, the capsule to be invaded, even the capsule and fatty envelope to be enormously thickened and cartilaginous, without septic suppurative changes taking place. As the former condition is marked by colics, and the latter by fixed renal pain, an important clue to the prognosis is obtained by noting the extent and the character of the initial suffering. B. Ascending Renal Tuberculosis, consecutive to lower Genito-urinary Tuberculosis. Tuber- culous Pyelonephritis.—It is an open question whether there is not in all cases of invasion from a lower urinary source an ascending wave of simple ureteritis prior to those anatomical conditions which are recognised as tuberculous ureteritis In a genital invasion the kidney may be affected without the bladder being in- volved. Be this as it may, the eai-liest appear- ance of infection of the kidney from a lower source is a tuberculous change in the lower calyces of the kidney. If the invasion has ascended via the ureter, it attacks the papillae of the lower third of the kidney ; if it has short circuited from the epididymis via the lymphatics