LIVER, DISEASES OF 476 Another and a rare appearance is a localised fibrosis of part of a lobe; this may indeed imitate a tumour, and cases described as fibroma of the liver are probably of this nature. Histologically.—The essential change is that seen in the secondary stage of syphilis, viz., a diffuse small cell infiltration. The individual liver-cells are separated from each other by young connective tissue, the result of prolifera- tion (a) of the pre-existing connective tissue cells of the organ; {b) of the endothelium of the capillaries and lymphatics in the lobule of the liver. Kupffer's star-like cells, which are inti- mately connected with the endothelial lining of the vessel walls, share in this change According to the duration and activity of the process there may be small round cells, spindle cells, or fairly well-formed fibrous tissue. This diffuse fibrosis is variously spoken of as a monocellular, imi- cellular, intercellular, or pericellular cirrhosis. When the process is seen in an early stage the small round cells may suggest sarcoma; when a number of these cells are collected together a syphilitic granuloma or miliary gumma is formed. The liver-cells are compressed, shrunken, granular, and sometimes undergo necrosis and disappear. They do not undergo fatty change. When compressed, they may appear in rows like the so-called new bile ducts. The fibrous tissue of the portal canals is in- creased in amount. The hepatic artery is normal, and although in exceptional instances changes in the branches of the portal vein and bile ducts have been described, they are, practi- cally speaking, always healthy. In different stages of the disease the appear- ances vary; thus pericellular cirrhosis alone, combined with miliary syphilomata, with fibrous tissue, and even with well-defined gummata, may be found. The diffuse monocellular cirrhosis is like the secondary lesions elsewhei'e in the body, a curable condition if treated by mercury ; but it may pass into the tertiary manifestations and lead to gummata, cicatrices, diffuse fibrosis, and lardaceous disease. Clinical Features. — As a rule, symptoms pointing to the liver are entirely absent; the ordinary signs of congenital syphilis are found, with enlargement of the liver and spleen. The liver is smooth, firm, and tender; in exceptional instances part of it may be so prominent as to feel like a tumour. Jaundice is rare; it is like the jaundice occasionally seen in the secondary stage of acquired syphilis, and may be referred to one of the following causes: enlarged glands in the portal fissure exerting pressure on the ducts, inflammation of the small ducts, and intime changes in the liver-cells and minute bile ducts. In some of the cases the jaundice is terminal and due to secondary infections falling on the liver, a form of icterus gravis. Ascites is rarely seen except in still-born children. It may be due to peritonitis, which, as shown by perihepatic adhesions, may occur in this disease. The hepatic enlargement corresponds to the other manifestations of the disease, and hence may be taken as an index of the severity of the infection. In some cases the liver may reach down as far as the crest of the ilium. In con- nection with this it should be borne in mind that the liver is not only relatively larger in infants than in adults, but that it normally projects farther down below the ribs, so that slight apparent enlargement of the liver is not of any importance. Treatment is that of congenital syphilis by mercury either by inunction or by the mouth. Mercurial ointment should be rubbed into the skin of the axillse, groins, etc., with flannel; a different area of skin should be employed from day to day. The method of inunction is more rapid in its action and less likely to lead to salivation than the administration of mercury by the mouth. It should be practised daily for three months; after that it should be dropped for a week at a time at first, and then for two weeks. In the second year of treatment in- unction should be practised for one month out of every three, and small doses of iodide of potassium given; this should be continued in the third year, the iodide being increased ; in the fourth year the mercurial treatment should be stopped, but the iodide should be continued. By these means the development of tertiary manifestations should be presented. When mercury is given by the mouth it is usually administered in the form of hydrargyr. c. creta; to an infant under two months old ^ grain should be given twice a day, the dose being increased to 1 grain after a time. Hepatic Lesions of Delayed or Tardive Heredi- tary Syphilis. — Here hepatic manifestations develop very much later than in the last category, often coming on about puberty or even in adult life. The lesions are tertiary in character, and resemble those seen in the acquired form of the disease. What has happened is that hepatic lesions characteristic of hereditary syphilis (pericellular cirrhosis) have persisted, and instead of being cured by treatment have passed on into the tertiary stage. Since the lesions are the same as those of the tertiary stage of acquired syphilis, there must be some other evidence of the hereditary form, such as interstitial keratitis or Hutchinson's teeth, in order to be certain that the case is one of delayed hereditary syphilis, otherwise the disease might have been acquired in early life —for example, from a wet nurse. The liver may be greatly deformed from contracting cicatrices, and may be divided up into numerous lobules; in fact, some of the