LABOUR, FAULTS IN THE PASSENGER 243 in preference to perforating the head of the child. But it is only very rarely that either of these measures is needful. It is almost always possible to deliver a large child alive with the forceps, if advantage be taken of the variations in the dimensions of the pelvis which can be produced by altering the posture of the patient.^ Given a patient in the lithotomy posture, the outlet of the bony pelvis can be increased by pressing the thighs against the abdomen till the knees approach the shoulders. Similarly, the conjugate at the brim, i.e. the inlet to the bony pelvis, can be increased by allowing the legs to hang down (the feet not touching the ground), so that their weight draws the symphysis away from the sacrum, the whole pelvis rotating on an axis passing through both sacro-iliac joints. This " hanging legs position," or Walcher's pos- ture, is of advantage whenever difficulty is met with in making the head enter the pelvis. The rules are as follows :—(1) Apply the forceps with the patient in the lithotomy posture. Place pillows under the buttocks, and while pulling the head through the brim into the pelvis allow the legs to hang down. (2) Remove the pillows, and while pulling the head out of the bony pelvis press the thighs against the abdomen, so in- creasing the pelvic outlet. (3) Whilst pulling the head, through the vulvar orifice allow the legs to hang down once more, as this relaxes the skin of the adjoining parts and minimises tearing of the perineum. After the birth of the head, some difficulty may be experienced in delivering a large body. Firm pressure on the fundus will favour rotation of the shoulders and their passage into and through the pelvis. When either of the axillse can be reached, it forms a point d'appid for traction by the finger, which must be made carefully and in the pelvic axis, abdominal pressure still supplying the major part of the force employed. In pelvic presentations large size of the child may act as a cause of impaction of the breech. If labour is delayed, although dilatation is com- plete and pains are good, this condition is to be suspected. The size of the presenting part should be reduced by bringing down one or both of the feet if this is possible, as it almost always is when the knees are flexed. Nature may then complete expulsion, or it may be necessary to deliver by traction and suprapubic pressure (see Management, p. 201). The attitude of the foetus may, however, be the cause of impaction, for when the knees are extended, the feet being near the head and the pelvis flexed upon the trunk at the lumbar articulations, the trunk, pelvis, and legs form a wedge which cannot pass through the bony portion of the parturient canal. As flexion of the spine is essential to the formation of the wedge, the condition is immediately removed if ' Author's Manual of Midwifery, Edin., Clay, 1896, J). 413 ; also Edin. Med. Journal, July 1895. a foot can be brought down, and this should therefore be done as soon as possible. In any case in which the feet cannot be reached traction may be used, by means of a finger passed into the groin. A piece of aseptic material, such as a well-boiled handkerchief, may well be used for traction, one end having been slipped over the groin and pulled down between the legs. The blunt hook is not a safe instrument for this purpose, nor is the forceps seen at its best when applied to the breech. If it become necessary to break iip the pelvis of a child the best instrument is a cranioclast or a cephalotribe. When this has been done the head must be perforated, lest the child should be born alive. (c) Unusual Ossification of the Cranial Bones. —This condition causes difficulty in labour by preventing "head-moulding," which should re- duce the head both laterally and in the antero- posterior direction. For the occipital bone slips under the parietals, and these in turn under the frontal, the head segments thus being tele- scoped ; and also one parietal bone slips under the other, the upper one being that which is anterior (relative to the mother's pelvis) before rotation occurs. It is clear that when ossifica- tion has advanced to the sutures both these movements are prevented in some degree, and the diameters of the head during labour are those of a larger cranium. Three reasons for undue ossification may be noted:—(1) Ossification may be precocious or premature. (2) If gestation be prolonged and the child is thus older than usual when born, normal ossification is further advanced than it generally is at the time of birth. (3) There are occasionally extra centres of ossification round which are formed the so-called Wormian bones between the usual cranial bones. These prevent head-moulding by interfering with the overlapping of the cranial bones at the sutures. Wormian bones are most often found in the posterior fontanelle and in that extra space known as the sagittal fontanelle, which is said to occur in 4 per cent of infants between the parietal bones, in a line joining the two parietal eminences. Peckham has recorded three cases of still-birth in which Wormian bones were the cause of death by preventing overlapping of the cranial bones. ^ The diagnosis of undue ossification of the cranium is made by vaginal examination after dilatation has advanced sufficiently to permit of direct palpation of a considerable portion of the head. The prognosis is somewhat more unfavourable than when the head is merely large, because head-moulding cannot gradually improve the situation. In breech presentations it is even more difficult to save the child's life than when the head leads. The mother is ex- posed to the usual risks attendant upon delay 1 New York Med. Record, April 1888.