504 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES When allowed to stand in a glass vessel the abscess contents are seen to separate into a maroon-coloured deposit with a supernatant fluid of a lighter hue. In consistence, after the first few hours of drainage, liver pus is pecu- liarly glairy and gelatinous. It is scarcely absorbed by cotton-wool, gauze, or lint dressings ; it tends to escape or lie between the skin and the dressings as a sticky, mucoid mass. The pus as it passes along a syphon drainage-tube, into the length of which a piece of glass tubing has been inserted, is seen to consist of yellowish- white masses of pus, almost the size of a split pea or lentil, floating in a lightly-coloured sero- sanguinolent fluid. The discharge in a favourable case contains less and less pus, the fluid becomes less red, and in time a biliary green colour is communicated to the fluid, proclaiming the fact that the abscess has healed and that the drainage-tube may be gradually withdrawn. Microscopical examination of liver pus shows it to consist of pus corpuscles, of leucocytes, of large pigmented globular cells, in various stages of perfection or degeneration, according to the stage of the abscess, and as to whether the material under examination is derived from the centre of the cavity or from the walls of the abscess. Red blood corpuscles, htematoidin crystals, oil globules, and particles of degenerate liver tissue are fairly constant mgredients of liver pus ; and cholesterine and Charcot-Leyden crystals are occasionally present. The presence of micro-organisms opens up the question of the sterility of liver pus. It was remarked above that the amoeba coli was found, if at all, on the third day after the commencement of the flow of pus from a liver abscess. The writer has never found the amoeba during the early days, and furthermore, has not always found it in the later days. Hepatitis and Liver Abscess.—In warm cli- mates acute (and chronic) hepatitis is more commonly met with than in temperature zones. Under " Hepatitis" this subject was fully dis- ciissed, and it would appear that hepatitis may play a part, a significant part, in the etiology of liver abscess. It has long been recognised that amongst Europeans dwelling in the Tropics the liver is the viscus upon which the greatest calls are made. It is too often asserted that excess of food and drink and deficiency of exercise are the explanations of the frequency of hepatitis and liver abscess in European dwellers in tropi- cal as compared with residents in temperate climates. If it is true that Europeans in the Tropics thus indulge, still it remains the fact that persons living in temperate climates who habitually over eat and drink are scarcely affected by either hepatitis or liver abscess. Climate therefore, or some local conditions, must determine the incidence of the hepatic lesions. The native of the Tropics becomes acclimatised—that is, has been taught by experi- ence to suit his habits in eating, drinking, and clothing to his environments. Not so the European immigrant; in none of these does he follow implicitly the teaching of native experi- ence, and he suffers, no doubt, in consequence. The European, more especially in his clothing, in his unwise want of precautions against chills, and in a number of other ways exposes the surface of the body to alternate over-heating and over-cooling, which must call upon some organ to deal with. Experience, and to some degree only physiology, has shown that it is the liver that is mostly taxed, or that at any rate gives out physiologically. The sudden chill after violent exercise, whether it be the marching of soldiers in the sun, or the volun- tary exercises of sport, causes a determination of blood to the internal organs, and the liver becomes congested, hypersemic, or inflamed, ac- cording as the recurrences of chill are occasional or continued. It would appear, however, that there is some determining cause beyond hepatic hypersemia, for in certain tropical regions liver abscesses are scarcely known, even amongst Europeans. This is especially reported to be the case in the West Indies ; but when the matter is inquired into, the region in which liver abscesses are " conspicuous by their absence " is much wider. Within the Tropics the meteorological conditions are very dissimilar. Heat is only one factor of a tropical climate; the cold at nights is seldom considered, yet is it the fluctuations in tempera- ture that test the physical powers. In the equatorial belt—that is, the regions extending to 12° north and south of the equator—night chills are unwonted occurrences. The climate of the equatorial belt is as different from that immediately to the north and south of it, and yet within the Tropics, as is that of London from St. Petersburg or New York. It is the area of equable temperature and almost per- petual calm; winter and summer are mere names; the temperatures of the night and day vary but a few degrees; chill is uncommon therefore, the body being exposed to a fairly equable heat. In the whole of the equatorial belt, liver abscess is almost as rare as in tem- perate climates, and one is driven to the con- clusion that the absence of the sudden changes from day to night temperatures in these regions, and its presence where these conditions prevail, may have a potent influence in determining the ailment. As with the amoeba so with other bacteria— neither streptococci nor staphylococci being de- monstrable in liver pus during the first days of flow. It is to the pus of this character that the term sterile has been applied, and the phe- nomenon is certainly peculiar. The writer is inclined to the view that liver abscesses arising from metastatic or pyaemic infection will be