FEEDING 10 INVALID Custard Pudding J pint of the " invalid food " made with milk. 2 eggs. 2 tea-spoonfuls of sugar. Prepare the food as in the given direction on the tin. After it has been allowed to cool add to it the sugar and the eggs well beaten. Pour into a small greased pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Flavouring, such as nutmeg, cinna- mon, or grated rind, may be added. This may be served hot or cold. Batter Pudding \ pint of the "invalid food" made with milk. 2 eggs. 1 pinch of salt. Take the prepared food and give it a final boiling. Let it cool slightly, and add the salt and eggs well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well-greased basin, cover with greased paper, and strain slowly for half an hour. Do not fill the basin too full, as the pudding will rise. When ready, it will be firm to the touch. It can be served with sugar, preserves, or meat gravy. Blanc-mange \ pint of " invalid food " made with milk. 3 tea-spoonfuls of corn-flour. 2 tea-spoonfuls sugar. Flavouring, vanilla or lemon. 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Mix the corn-flour and sugar in a basin and gradually add the food, mixing well together. Pour into a saucepan and stir over the fire imtil boiling. Boil for five minutes. Add the flavouring and cream. Pour into a wetted mould, and put into a cool place until set. When ready, turn out and serve with stewed fruit. Invalid Food Jelly ^ pint of " invalid food " made with milk. ^ oz. French leaf gelatine. 2 tea-spoonfuls of castor sugar. Make the invalid food according to directions. Add while hot the gelatine, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Add the sugar and any suitable flavouring, such as port or sherry wine. Pour into a wetted mould until set. Turn out and serve cold. Peptonised Foods Peptonised foods should only be employed when it is necessary to assist the digestive organs for a time, by giving the alimentary canal some degree of physiological rest. As soon as the digestive organs have regained their vitality their use should be abandoned. Dr. Fothergill tells the story of the Nottinghamshire farmer whose son had been largely fed on peptonised food, who said, " It is just making a pauper of his stomach, doctor," and as a ratepayer he knew that paupers would not work if they could help it. Pepsin and dilute HCl may be used to predigest proteid food, but it is more con- venient to employ liquor pancreaticus, as it has less effect on the flavour of the food. In preparing food by means of pancreatic ferments there are many reliable preparations that can be used. Liquor pancreaticus (Benger's) and Fairchild's zymine peptonising tubes may be mentioned. It is well to remember that the ferments must not be added if the temperature of the food is higher than 140° F. Eoughly speaking, this is a temperature that will not scald the mouth. If a greater heat is applied the ferment is destroyed. The extreme solubility of predigestive pro- ducts, whether starch or albumin, makes them appear thin and watery; but to a delicate invalid without an appetite this is an improve- ment, as the sensation of thickness is generally much objected to. If peptonised foods are prepared with care there is no reason why these foods should have an impleasant taste and smell. The following- methods of preparation of different predigested foods may be commended :— Peptonised Milk Milk, 1 pint. Water, \ pint. Liquor pancreaticus, 2 tea-spoonfuls. Bicarbonate of soda, 20 grains (| small tea-spoonful). After allowing the milk to stand, skim the milk. Dilute the skimmed milk with \ pint of water, heat to a temperature of 140° F. Mix with the warm milk 2 tea-spoonfuls of liquor pancreaticus and 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda. The mixture is poured into a covered jar, with cosy over it, and put near the fire. Let this stand for 1^ hours. Bring the mixture to the boil for two to three minutes to arrest any further fermentative action, which makes the milk unpalatable. Now add the cream that was removed, and it is ready for use. Cold Process.—Mix the peptonising agent in cold water and cold milk as usual, and immedi- ately place the bottle on ice, without subjecting it to any heat. When needed pour out the required portion, and use in the same manner as ordinary milk. It is recommended to try the milk prepared by the cold process in those cases in which food is not quickly digested after ingestion, and in which the digestive functions are impaired, or even practically suspended. It has been found in many such cases that the peptonising