378 LEAD COLIC Lecld Colic.—Abdominal pain due to lead poisoning, resembling true colic in its characters, often preceded by constipation. See Lead ; Toxicology {Lead). LeSlCl Palsy.—A result of lead poisoning, in which wrist-drop is a prominent symptom. See Lead ; Toxicology ; Trades, Dangerous ; etc. Lead Poisoning^. See Toxicology {Lead); Trades, Dangerous {Lead Poisoning); etc. Leaminglon. See Balneology {Eiig- latid, Muriated Waters); Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline, without Carbonic Acid Gas). Leaping^ Ag;'ue.—^A form of dancing mania or choreomania. Leash Ulcer. See Counea {Phli/ctenular Ulcer, Fascicular Keratitis). Leather Dressing.— An offensive trade, like fell-mongering, in the carrying on of which the pelts are limed, then washed, then immersed in "puer" (a mixture of water, dogs' dung, and pigeons' manure), then bleached, and then tanned ; the odours are disagreeable. The law requires cleanliness of the buildings, an ample water supply, and frequent emptying of the lime-pits. Leber's Atrophy. — Hereditary optic atrophy. See Ketina and Optic Nerve {Atrophy/ of Optic Nerve, Etiology). Lecanopagl'US.—Symmetrically united twins in which the union is by the pelves (Pygo- pagus or Ischiopagus). The word lecano-, from the Greek XeKavr], a dish, means relating to the pelvis; thus lecano-terata are monstrosities in which the malformation affects most markedly the pelvis, Lecithin.—A fat in which one of the acid radicles is replaced hj phosphoric acid linked to cholin, hydroxyethyl - trimethyl - ammonium- hydroxide (C^^HggNPOg); it is found in the yolk of egg (Gr. Aext^os, yolk of egg), blood, bile, brain, nerves, semen, etc., and it is now frequently employed as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of anaemia, neurasthenia, rickets, etc. See Liver, Physiology of {Regulation of Supply of Fat); Physiology, Tissues {Nerve); Physiology, Blood {Red Cells, Chemistry); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Eggs); Physi- ology, Excretion {Milk Secretion, Phosphorus Compounds). LecitOg'en.—A powder with a pleasant taste, consisting of a combination of lecithin and cocoa; it has been recommended in doses of three to four tea-spoonfuls daily in the treatment of secondary anfemias. Ledesma. See Balneology {Spain). Leeches. See also Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Vascular Lesions, Treatment); Brain, Surgery of {Concussion, Treatment); Kidney, Surgical Affections op {Traumatic Nephritis, Treatment); Mediastinum {Growths, Treatment); Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. {Para- sites) ; Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Caused by Armnal Parasites, Leeches).—Hirudo, the leech. Two kinds of leech are official—the speckled leech, Sanguisuga medicinalis, and the green leech, Sanguisuga officinalis. The belly of the former is greenish yellow with black spots, while that of the latter is plain olive green. The body of each is about two inches long, wrinkled transversely, and of a dark green colour with reddish stripes longi- tudinally. At each end of the body there is a muscular disc, the anterior one being pro- vided with a triradiate mouth by means of which the animal bites. In the pharynx is secreted an anti-coagulating substance which prevents the flow of blood stopping too soon. Leeches are applied to the skin for the extraction of blood in inflammation or con- gestion of deep - seated organs — e.g. one or two may be placed behind the ear in inflam- mation of the tympanic cavity, or four or five over the liver when that organ is enlarged and congested. The part of skin selected should be thoroughly washed, and, if necessary, shaved; after which a little milk is dabbed over it. The leech is cleansed by being allowed to swim about in water, and is then applied to the skin in a test-tube or wine-glass. A good specimen should extract from ^-2 3 of blood, and when full it will drop off of its own accord. If it is desired to remove it before it is satisfied, the application of strong salt solution will usually make it leave go its hold. When a large amount of blood is to be removed, the flow may be prolonged by applying a hot fomenta- tion after the leeches have fallen off. Should the bleeding continue too long, firm pressure with a pad will usually stop it; but if not, the bite must be touched with a silver nitrate pencil, or perchloride of iron solution. When applied to mucous membranes, as in the mouth, rectum, or vagina, the leech must be introduced in a leech glass—a tube narrowed at one end so that only the head can protrude. Leeks. See Invalid Feeding {Vegetables^ Celery, Sea Kale, and LeeJcs). Leg;'. See Amputations {Leg); Aneurysm {Lower Limb); Artificial Limbs {Leg—Bucket, Anglesea, Palmer, and Bly Leg); Deformities {Bow-Legs); Fractures {Leg); Labour, Opera- tions (Version); Lymphatic System, Physio- logy and Pathology {Leg); Puerperium, Physi- ology {(Edema of Legs); Puerperium, Patho- logy {Phlegmasia Alba Doleus); Ulcers and Ulceration {Leg Ulcers).