156 LABOUR, PHYSIOLOGY OF These must be looked upon as by far the most important factor in expulsion, in so far as they alone are able to complete the process as evidenced in cases of paraplegia and complete ansesthesia. In their action they are inter- mittent ; each contraction lasts for a period of from thirty to a hundred seconds, with a varying interval which is most regularly marked in the second stage. By means of this intermittency exhaustion of the mother is prevented, the placental circulation is not embarrassed, and accommodation of the passenger to the passages is favoured. Uterine contractions are purely involuntary, although they may be influenced mentally—a point of importance in the manage- ment of labour, in so far as we know that en- couragement stimulates, while on the other hand depression tends to diminish their action. Doubtless the centre of nervous stimulus lies in the sympathetic ganglia, although a spinal centre has been described in the lumbar enlargement of the cord and a cerebral centre in the medulla. It has been stated that the intermittency is due to paralysis of the terminal nerve filaments in the uterine wall, induced by contraction of the uterus, and probably influenced by the resulting antemia. The con- tractions are usually associated with painful sensations, hence the common expression of " pains " applied to them. These painful sensa- tions vary in the different stages of labour. In the first stage they are of a cutting nature, while in the second stage they may be described as of a bearing-down, tearing character. Along with the temporary! contractions of the uterine walls and their intervening relaxation we have at the same time a permanent shortening of the muscular fibres, known as retraction. By this means not only are the individual fibres permanently shortened, but also there is a redistribution of their arrangement. We have thus in the action of the primary powers a double efi^ect: (1) a temporary marked shortening of the individual fibres, " con- traction " ; and (2) a permanent slighter diminu- tion in length, "retraction." Uterine contractions are not peristaltic. The Secoiulary Poivers. — As has already been stated, these are mainly supplied by the contractions of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm. They not only are of value in assisting the primary powers in their expulsive efforts, but also are beneficial in preventing the effects of excessive retraction, and maintaining the long axis of the uterus in the axis of the pelvic brim. Though not absolutely essential, their absence or impaired action seriously delays the completion of labour, a point of great practical importance in reference to the question of anaesthesia during parturition. To a great extent the secondary powers are reflexly stimulated to act, but at the same time their force is markedly influenced by mental control, the parturient being able to voluntarily assist in the expulsive efforts. The Weight of the Viscera.—This is a factor of very minor importance, but may have a slight effect when the patient is in the erect posture by assisting dilatation of the cervix. Thus the parturient should be encouraged to walk about during the first stage. Action of the Powers in the different Stages of Labour.—During the first stage the uterus is practically alone concerned in the dilatation of the cervix, and for a clear conception of the manner in which this is completed a general knowledge of the disposition of the muscular fibres of the oi'gans is necessary. At full time the uterus is to be considered as consisting of three distinct portions, viz., the body, lower uterine segment, and cervix (see Fig. 1). They are in a general manner to be differentiated from each other by their relationship to the peritoneal invest- ment ; on the body the peritoneum is closely adherent, on the lower uterine segment it is loosely attached, while the cervix has practically no peritoneal cover- ing whatever. Of these three portions the body alone actu- ally contracts, and is to be considered a power; the lower fig. l.—Diagram of full-time gravid ntovi'no aorrmoTTf- Qnrl uterus Bliowingmain disposition Uterine segment anu ^-^^^^^ ^^^^ proper; B, cervix are purely lower uterine segment (longi- ■i • tudinal): C, cervix circular. passive, and are m '' ' truth passages. The muscular fibres of the body are irregular in their distribution; those of the lower uterine segment are mainly disposed in a longitudinal direction, while in the cervix the disposition of the pelvis is mainly circular. With the onset of labour retraction of the body of the uterus commences. This is at first associated with the painless uterine contractions which are ever present during pregnancy. As the result of retraction the cavity of the body proper is permanently decreased in size, and the muscular wall at the same time becomes thicker. The retraction of the body pulls upon and lengthens the lower uterine segment, and through it upon the cervix. The cervix is thus pulled upon in an upward direction, and its passive circular fibres (commencing at the os internum) gradually yield from above down- wards, with the result that the canal of the cervix is dilated, and now forms part of the general uterine cavity which thus compensates for the diminution in the body proper (Figs. 2, 3, 4). During this period the patient is usually unaware of any active changes occur-