178 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM Third Vertex.—The occipito-frontal diameter lies in the right oblique nearly, with the occiput backwards. Diagnosis.—Per abdomen, the back of the child lies to the mother's right, and the limbs to her left. The foetal heart may be slightly more difficult to hear in this position, since the back of the child is directed rather away from the anterior abdominal wall; it is heard in the same place as in second vertex positions. Per vaginam, the sagittal suture runs down- wards and forwards as in the first position, but the posterior fontanelle is found at the end of the suture near the back of the mother's pelvis. Mechanism.—The head descends as before, and, on meeting the pelvic floor, rotates through three-eighths of a circle to the same place as in second vertex positions. The case then proceeds as if the position had been a second vertex originally; it is thus said to have been " reduced " to a second vertex. Fourth Ve7-tex.—The occipito-frontal diameter lies nearly in the left oblique diameter with the occiput backwards. Substituting left for right, the description of the mechanism of the third vertex will answer for this. The sagittal suture runs upwards and forwards, the posterior fontanelle being towards the back of the mother's pelvis. The head rotates so that it lies in the same position as if it had begun by being a first vertex; it is therefore " reduced " to a first vertex. The mechanisms of the first and fourth, and of the second and third positions respectively, are the same except for the fact that in the two where the occiput lies backwards the rotation by which it comes to the front is one which describes three-eighths of a circle, instead of, as in the occipito-anterior positions, only one- eighth. Moulding.—The way moulding in vertex posi- tions is brought about has just been described. The diameters reduced are those at right angles to the long axis of the head, one near the mento- vertical. In all cases the suboccipito-frontal, suboccipito-bregmatic, and biparietal are dimin- ished, and the mento-vertical lengthened. The occipito-frontal is in nearly all cases diminished somewhat. In first and fourth positions the prominent part of the vertex is on the posterior superior angle of the right parietal bone, and over a varying area around this ; in the second and third positions the prominence is on a corresponding area on the left side. The caput succedaneum is over the prominence in each case. The moulding in these, as in other vertex cases to be immediately described, is assisted by the movements of the flat bones of the vault on one another. Under the compression of the resistances encountered by the head their edges overlap to varying degree. The bone most pressed upon is the posterior parietal bone— that is, in first and fourth positions the left; and in second and third, the right. In con- sequence of the pressure, the posterior bone is flattened and slides under the anterior one. Since the frontal and occipital bones are at- tached to the base of the skull, and so cannot move so freely, they always go under the edges of the parietal bones. General Character of Labour.—In the above mechanisms the course of labour may be con- sidered as absolutely favourable for mother and child. Other presentations and positions have in their mechanisms elements which modify the prognosis for either mother or child, or both. Persistent Occipito-posterior Mechanisms In certain cases, beginning with the occiput backwards (third and fourth vertex), the labour does not result in a reduction of these positions to second and first respectively, but the head is born with the face still looking to the pubes. This occurs in rather more than 1 per cent of vertex cases. The cause of this irregularity is want of flexion. Flexion to a sufficient degree, as has been shown, is necessary to bring the occiput down low enough to be the first part of the head to come into relation with the pelvic floor; for if this does not happen, there is no more reason why the occiput should rotate to the front than that the forehead should, since both ends of the head ovoid reach the floor of the pelvis at the same time, and both are equally directed forward by the slopes on which they impinge. Further, there is, owing to the absence of flexion, no longer the suboccipito- frontal diameter of 4 inches to easily rotate through the transverse diameter of the pelvic cavity (4| inches), but the occipito-frontal of 4^ inches has now to be reckoned with. This cannot move through the transverse, and so comes to be acted on by the shape of the pelvis at this level. The direction of least resistance for it to move in is for the occiput to rotate into the hollow of the sacrum. Want of flexion is brought about in several ways. It is in some instances due to one or other of the causes which, when acting to a far greater extent than at present, produce face presentations. Thus a slightly contracted pelvis may have just enough want of space in its antero-posterior measurement at the brim to retard the biparietal diameter, which is near the hinder end of the head, for a time, and to allow the forehead to come down more than is normal. The obliquity of the uterus may interfere with the necessary amount of flexion, if the inclination happens to be such that the line of the expelling force is directed along the abdominal surface of the child; as when the uterus has its normal obliquity to the right and the head is lying with its occiput to the right (see Fig. 22, p. 175). Flexion is apt to be interfered with in all