63 JOINTS, DISEASES OF Classification of Diseases op Joints— I. Errors of Development . . 65 II. Bacterial Diseases— Pyogenic . . . .65 Tuberculous . . . .69 Syphilitic . . . .79 Acute Rheumatism {q.v.) III. Diseases associated with certain Constitutional Conditions— Gout 80 Chronic Articular Rheumatism 80 Arthritis Deformans . .81 ffcemophylia . . . .82 IV. Diseases associated with Nerve Lesions— Neui'o-Arthropathies . .82 V. Hysterical or Mimetic Joint Af- fections . . . . .84 VI. Tumours and Cysts . . .84 VII. Loose Bodies in Joints . . 84 VIII. Diseases of Special Joints {q.v.) See also Amputations ; Anklb-Joint, Region OF, Injuries and Diseases and Operations ; Aspirator, Uses of {Effusion in Joints); Bal- neology' {Balneo-Therapeutics in Gout, Rheuma- tism, etc.); Bone, Diseases of {Deformities from Osteomyelitis); Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Trophic Changes in Joints); Elbow- Joint, Region of. Injuries and Diseases ; Fingers ; Gout {Morbid Anatomy); Haemo- philia {Synyitoms, Joint Affections); Hip-Joint, Injuries and Diseases of ; Hysteria in Child- hood {Symptoms); Knee-Joint, Diseases and Injuries ; Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs, etc. {Pelvic Articulatimis) ; Larynx, Affections of the Cartilages {Anchylosis of Crico-Arytenoid Joint^ ; Lbucocyth/EMIA {Symp- toms, HcBmorrhage into Joints); Malingering {Joints); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Pos- terior Basic {Complications, Periarthritis); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Compli- cations, Arthritis); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases op the Jaw {Temporo-Maxillary Joint); Mumps ; Osteo-Arthropathibs ; Preg- nancy, Physiology {Changes in Pelvic Joints); Purpura {Symptoms) ; Scurvy, Infantile {Clinical Features) ; Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of ; Sterno-Clavicular Joint ; Syphilis ; Syringomyelia ; Tabes Dorsalis {Tabo-Arthropathies); Tuberculosis {Joints); Urethra, Diseases of {Gonorrhoea, Complica- tions) ; Wrist-Joint, Injuries. Definition op Terms applied to Morbid Con- ditions of 3omi:^.—Synovitis, while imply- ing iniiammation of the synovial membrane, presents different features according to its etiology. It presents many analogies with peritonitis. The effusion into the joint, which is a frequent accompaniment of synovial inflam- mation, may be serous, sero-fibrinous, or puru- lent. It is much to be desired that one should avoid the use of the term synovitis without some qualifying adjective, which will indicate its pathological nature, e.g. rheumatic, gouty, gonorrhoeal, pyogenic, or tuberculous. Hydropts, hydrarthrosis, or chronic serous synovitis, are terms employed when the effusion of fluid into the joint is the most prominent clinical feature. It presents analogies with ascites or hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, and is to be regarded rather as a symptom than as a separate entity. It may occur apart from disease, e.g. in the knee-joint, from repeated and neglected sprains (football knee); it is chiefly met with in the chronic and intermit- tent forms of synovitis resulting from chronic staphylococcus osteomyelitis of one of the adjacent bones, from gonorrhoea, tubei'culosis, syphilis, arthritis deformans, arthropathies of nerve origin, and when there are loose bodies in the joint. Arthritis is the term applied, when not only the synovial membrane, but all the joint structures are involved in the disease, viz., the ligaments, articular surfaces, and it may be also the ends of the bones. While it may be anatomically possible to differentiate between synovitis and arthritis, it is often impossible to do so clinically, so that in practice the two terms are often used indiscriminately. One may confidently speak of the existence of arthritis whenever there are marked symptoms of involvement of the articular surfaces. There are as many different pathological forms of arthritis as of synovitis, so that it is desirable in using the term to add a qualifying adjective which will indicate its nature, e.g. rheumatic, gouty, pyogenic, or tuberculous. The arthritis, according to its etiology, may assume a dry form, or it may be attended with effusion into the joint; this may be serous, as in arthritis deformans, or may be sero-fibrinous or purulent, as in certain forms of pyogenic and tuberculous arthritis. Wasting of the muscles in the vicinity of the joint is a constant accom- paniment of arthritis ; it especially affects the extensor muscles, and is quantitative I'ather than degenerative; the muscles affected do not show the reaction of degeneration. From the involvement of the articular surfaces it is unusual to have complete recovery from arthritis; it is apt to result in one or other form of ankylosis. Empyema is the term occasionally employed to indicate that the cavity of the joint is full of pus ; it is chiefly observed in chronic suppurative disease of pyogenic or tuberculous origin, and is usually attended with the formation of abscesses outside the joint. " Ulceration of cartilage " and " caries of the articular surfaces" are common accompaniments of the more serious and progressive forms of joint disease, and especially those of bacterial origin. They represent successive stages in the same destructive process, the disappearance of