440 LIVER, DISEASES OF be cleaned out; this is most satisfactorily effected by the use of the old-fashioned blue pill and haustus sennse. The mercury drives out the bile out of the gall-bladder, unloads the bile ducts, and by sluicing the common duct tends to remove the causes of catarrh of its lower end. At the same time it acts as an intestinal antiseptic, and inhibits excessive fermentation, and then puts a stop to further auto-hitoxication. The purgative action of these two remedies removes the poisons from the body. Plenty of water should be taken so as to wash out the poisonous products from the circulation and stimulate the functional activity of the kidneys. During the existence of symptoms a liquid diet, of which milk is the staple, should be adopted, while alcohol in any form should be rigidly avoided. In the second place, the patient should be warned to avoid the forms of food likely to set up intestinal catarrh and fermentation. The articles of food that must be avoided as indigestible will, of course, vary in individual cases; but, generally speaking, the following should be avoided—concentrated and highly spiced soups or essences, pork, duck, hare, game, made dishes, sauces, melted butter, tea cakes, crumpets, cheese, and much proteid food. Alcohol should be taken in great moderation, and chiefly in a diluted form, as whisky, or claret and water ; while beer, porter, champagne, sherry, port should be prohibited. Exercise is important, and should be of an active nature; horse exercise is the best, bicycling useful, and walking the least effective. The skin should be got to act, and Turkish baths are useful for this purpose. A visit to spas such as Carlsbad, Marienbad, Vichy, or Ems, and a regulated course of treatment there, will benefit the patient. As to the prognosis, the digestive disturb- ances which give rise to these symptoms are the same that lead to cirrhosis ; and, indeed, the symptoms of " functional disease " of the liver may in some instances be the early manifesta- tions of cirrhosis. Diseases of the Hepatic Artery Diseases op Hepatic Artery— Arteriosclerosis .... 440 Thrombosis ..... 440 Embolism ..... 440 Aneurysm ..... 440 Enlargement . . . . .441 Hepatic Veins— Thrombosis . . . . .441 Embolism ..... 441 Stricture . . . . .441 Suppurative Inflammation . . 441 Lymphatic Vessels— Glands in Portal Fissure . .441 Arteriosclerosis. — A certain amount of change occurs in the hepatic artery in arterio- sclerosis, and no doubt may dispose to the rare events—thrombosis and aneurysm. It is, however, noticeable that arteriosclerosis of the hepatic artery does not lead to any change in the liver comparable to a granular kidney. In cases of hsemochromatosis there is endar- teritis of the hepatic artery, while in the neighbourhood of gummata and in syphilitic disease of the liver endarteritis obliterans is found. Thrombosis. — Thrombosis of the hepatic artery has very rarely been noted, and is a pathological curiosity. Lancereaux refers to a rather doubtful case in a man aged sixty-five, who died with arteriosclerosis and gangrene of the feet. Embolism.—Like thrombosis few cases are on record, probably because the condition of the hepatic artery is rarely investigated. As a result of embolism of the main trimk necrosis of the liver has been noted both in man (Chiari, Lancereaux) and in animals; in a case that I had an opportunity of seeing with Dr. C. Ogle, of embolism of the bifurcation of the artery, the liver showed white infarcts, but was not completely necrosed. Experimentally, liga- ture of the hepatic artery shows the flow of bile, and thus disposes to cholangitis. Septic emboli give rise to multiple abscesses. Emboli of the small branches occur in melanotic sarcoma. Aneurysm of the Hepatic Artery.—There are about thirty recorded examples of hepatic aneurysm. Situation. — Aneurysms may occur on the main trunk of the artery, at the bifurcation, or on its main branches, in which case the aneurysm may be either in the substance of the liver or outside it, just in the portal fissure. Symmetrical aneurysms on the two branches of the hepatic artery have been met with. An aneurysm has been found in the wall of an hepatic abscess; this lesion was evidently due to ulceration attacking the artery from without, and is comparable to the production of an aneurysm in the walls of vomicae in pulmonary tuberculosis. Small intrahepatic aneurysms may occur in great numbers in the rare con- dition of periarteritis nodosa. Causation.—They may be due to embolism, arteriosclerosis, and in rare instances to trau- matism. Symptoms.—Pain resembling that of biliary colic is generally present, while jaundice due to pressure on the bile ducts may further increase the clinical resemblance to cholelithiasis. In other cases the aneurysm ruptures either into the bile duct, peritoneum, or duodenum; on the latter event it may resemble a duodenal ulcer. Diagnosis is very difficult. In the absence of pulsation the symptoms suggest gall-stones. If