LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 493 into the beneficial and the harmful. The beneficial effects of perihepatitis are seen when the liver adheres to other organs as the result of disease commencing within its own boundaries or arising in neighbouring organs. Abscesses, hydatids, etc. extending from the liver may, by the perihepatitis they induce, be guided by channels to safe outlets. Pus may come to the surface, may be conducted through the diaphragm and lung, may reach the colon, stomach, etc., along tracts which prevent its bursting in the peritoneum or pleura. In the same way in hydatids and even in malignant disease, a barrier, the result of perihepatitis, may be formed which may check for a time, at any rate, serious results. Disease in neigh- bouring organs may also be arrested by a timely perihepatitis. Perforating ulcers of the stomach, disease in the colon and pancreas, may be arrested at the liver walls by perihepatitic barriers of inflammatory tissue. The beneficial results of perihepatitis are also seen in cir- rhosis, where, by extensive adhesions, the vas- cular supply of the liver is benefited to a high degree. The detrimental action of perihepatitis is evident in the arrest of movement, caused by the liver and diaphragm being bound together, whereby the breathing is impeded, exercise is curtailed, the functions of the liver do not derive the full benefit of the respiratory move- ments, and in consequence the general health becomes impaired. Induration of the liver tissue is another patho- logical state ascribed to perihepatitis. Recurrent attacks of perihepatitis, seen especially in resi- dents in the Tropics, there can be no doubt, tend to infiltrate the liver with fibrous tissue; but that perihepatitis and subsequent capsulitis directly cause a general induration of the liver substance is a sequel of conditions not by any means constant. In many post-mortem examinations such a train of pathological changes would seem undoubted, but in others the liver retains a normal appearance, or it may even become softer than is natural. In yet another group of cases of perihepatitis the branches of the portal vein may be found surrounded by fibrous thickenings whilst the liver-cells retain their normal appearance. The information at our disposal is too limited to come to a definite conclusion in the matter ; but the question seems to be mostly one of time and degree, as recurrent attacks of peri- hepatitis may no doubt bring about some degree of hepatic induration. The post-mortem appearances of perihepatic inflammation may be (1) a general coating of recent lymph on the surface of the liver, which can be easily peeled off'; (2) the lymph may become organised and form fibrous material, which may extend as a tough membranous layer binding the liver and the adjacent parts firmly together, so that the liver can only move during respiration with the diaphragm and the viscera in contact with it as a whole; or (3) the fibrous material may be stretched and thinned out into filamentous bands which allow of fairly free movement. Diagnosis.—Acute perihepatitis is most apt to be mistaken for pleurisy of the right side. When we consider how often even the presence of a liver abscess is obscured by and mistaken for a right basal pneumonia, we are prepared for serious difficulty in this direction. Pleurisy and perihepatitis are, as shown above, frequently concomitant diseases. In almost every case of old pleuritic adhesions at the lower part of the right chest, perihepatic adhesions will be met with post-mortem, and the two conditions may have arisen, developed, and run their course in common. It is usual to assume that the affections are not coincident, and that the pleurisy is the primary ailment; this is frequently the case, no doubt, but in many instances the peritoneum may have been first affected, or the two conditions may have started together. The pleuritic signs and symptoms are apt to, and usually do, obscure the peri- toneal. The friction sounds are ascribed to the pleural state, whereas the peritoneal rub may be the more marked. By grasping the liver by the hands placed front and back, and moving the liver backwards and forwards, the diagnosis may be cleared up. The sharp, excruciating pain shooting up to the clavicular angle can only be elucidated by this method, and the diagnosis of perihepatitis with or with- out pleurisy can be established. There are several other diagnostic features which are sufficiently obvious from a study of the signs and symptoms. The diagnosis of perihepatitis in cases of interstitial nephritis, accompanied by cirrhosis and ascites, is of little clinical consequence, as the perihepatitis itself plays but a small part in hastening the end ; and, again, perihepatitis is assumed to be present when the signs of chronic peritonitis are apparent. The most important clinical point to settle is whether a recurring perihepatitis is or is not accompanied by cirrhosis. A patient who has cirrhosis or hepatic induration will in all probability have at the same time peritoneal adhesions over the liver. Exposure to chill, injury, etc. may, however, set up a subacute perihepatitis, supervening upon old perihepatic trouble, without marked symptoms of hepatitis or increasing induration. If the liver tissue is not seriously involved— and it may not be—it is important to check the perihepatitis, however slight or subacute, as there is a danger of the liver becoming, in time, indurated and even cirrhosed. On the other hand, if cirrhosis is marked, a further development of perihepatic adhesions is cal- culated to do good by establishing relief