77 JOINTS, DISEASES OF an olive-shaped nozzle must be attached to the syringe which will completely close the orifice of the sinus and prevent the immediate escape of the emulsion, which must be forced into the sinus; the orifice of the latter is closed with the finger for ten minutes : it will then be found that only a little clear glycerine escapes ; pads of gauze are applied, and the procedure repeated two or three times a week. The results are very good if the sinus is not already septic. Septic sinuses are better laid open, sterilised, and made to heal from the bottom by the open method. It is maintained that even the exist- ence of sequestra is not an obstacle to the success of the iodoform treatment, for if they are thoroughly soaked in iodoform and glycer- ine, the bacilli may be exterminated and the sequestra may become encapsulated by connec- tive tissue. The artificial productioyi of venous congestion, introduced by Bier, is an important adjuvant to the iodoform treatment. To be successful it must be efficient and carefully supervised. An elastic webbing bandage (two or three turns) is applied outside a layer of lint immediately above the affected joint, sufficiently tightly to constrict the veins and produce a bluish-red tinge of the skin. Below the joint the limb should be bandaged to prevent oedema. The site of application of the elastic bandage should be changed frequently so as to avoid maceration of the skin and diminish the tendency to wasting of the muscles. It may be worn continuously, but the intermittent application is better, from fourteen to eighteen hours each day; in the interval the oedema around the joint may be dispelled by a bandage. The venous congestion appears to act beneficially by stimulating the formation of connective tissue. It has been objected to by some surgeons because under its influence latent tuberculous foci have been transformed into cold abscesses; this is no drawback, since the cold abscess is more amenable to iodoform treatment than the latent focus. The congestion should be persevered with, in siiitable cases, until a month or two after the joint disease appears to have been cured. The congestion should be omitted for two or three days after iodoform has been injected. The congestion treatment is not applicable to the hip or shoulder. Under the combined influence of rest, iodoform injections, and venous congestion, if the disease of the joint undergoes cure the pain and tender- ness subside, passive movements become possible, and the swelling gradually subsides; it is a favourable sign if the swelling becomes harder and firmer. In the later stages of treatment the patient is encouraged to remain in the open air; in the case of the lower extremity the limb must be maintained in a good attitude, and should not be allowed to touch the ground. In the evening, the limb should be washed. massaged, gently exercised, and the wasted muscles may be stimulated with electricity. The results obtained by the foregoing methods of conservative treatment, along with attention to the general health, are in the majority of cases extremely satisfactory. The best and most certain results are obtained in children. Apparently permanent cures are obtained in cases which were formerly subjected to all kinds of severe operative interference. It is unfortunate that we can rarely tell beforehand whether it is certain to succeed, or how long the cure will take. An exception must be made in disease of the knee-joint in adults; opinion is becoming unanimous that if there is no prospect of obtaining a movable joint by conservative measures, it is better to have recourse to excision in the first instance, for thereby one may guaraiatee the best obtainable functional result with the minimum expenditure of time. In other joints the conservative treatment is only abandoned if the disease continues to progress in spite of it, if improve- ment does not show itself after a thorough trial, or if the disease relapses after apparent cure (vide indications for operative interference). The external application of iodine or of mercurial ointment (Scott's dressing) is of doubtful value; the fly blister and the actual cautery have largely gone out of fashion, but they may be employed with benefit for the relief of pain when this is a prominent feature. Operative treatment: the indications for operative interference vary in each case ; they are more restricted than was the case during the era when Listerian methods first eliminated the septic complications of wounds. So far as the general condition of the patient is concerned, age is an important factor. Other conditions being equal, operation is more often required in adults, because after the age of twenty there is less prospect of spontaneous recovery, there is more tendency to relapse and to tuberciilous disease of the internal organs, and there is no fear of interfering with the growth of the skeleton. The general health may necessitate the removal of the disease by the most rapid method, viz., by operation. The social status must, unfortunately, be taken into account; the bread-winner, under existing social conditions, may be unable to give up his work for a sufficient time to give conservative measures a fair trial. The local conditions which decide the question for or against operations are differently regarded by each individual surgeon. They may be expressed in general terms, for those who have no personal experience to guide them, as follows : — Operative interference is indicated (1) in cases where, in spite of a fair trial of conservative measures, the disease continues to progress; (2) in cases unsuited for conservative treatment, e.g. where there is dislocation,