INVALID FEEDING 15 absolutely wrong if we did not limit the quantity, and give very strict injunctions as to the quality of the food. After typhoid fever, when convalescence is thoroughly established, any mass of undigested food, e.g. potatoes, or a piece of unmasticated meat, may be the cause of a relapse by set- ting up irritation in some recently ulcerated patch. At first, in all cases, a continuance of the fever diet, of milk and potash, beef tea or meat infusions, and acid drinks, is indicated. This diet can be gradually extended to include easily digestible starches, either in the form of some prepared invalid food (p. 9), or as a home- made griiel, to which has been added malt infusion. The two following recipes are useful for gruels :— Oatmeal Gruel 1 table-spoonful fine oatmeal. J pint cold water. Salt or sugar. Put the oatmeal into a clean basin, and pour the water over it. Cover the basin and let it stand for at least half an hour, stirring occasionally. Then strain the liquid off into a small lined saucepan, and press the oatmeal as dry as possible. Stir over the fire until boiling, and let it boil from five to seven minutes. The thickness of the gruel is very much a matter of taste ; if too thick add more water, or if too thin use more oatmeal. Season with salt or sugar; wine or brandy may be added if required. Milk Gruel 1 table-spoonful fine oatmeal. \ pint milk. Salt or sugar. Made in the same way as last recipe, only milk is used instead of water. Barley Meal Gruel 1 dessert-spoonful barley meal. \ pint milk. A small piece of butter. Sugar or salt. Mix the milk very gradually with the meal, stirring until quite smooth. Take a small lined saucepan, rinse out with cold water, and pour the barley and milk into it. Stir constantly over the fire until boiling, and let it boil about six minutes ; season to taste, and serve very hot. This is better eaten with a little cream. The thickness can be regulated as in oatmeal gruel. This can be made into a very good drink by making a thick gruel with water, then thinning it down with port wine; heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. As the condition of the digestive tract im- proves, the desire for food increases, and this must, to begin with, be met by giving milk puddings, and eggs in the form of drinks, e.g. egg flip, etc., or as baked custard. In the following recipes for baked milk puddings, the eggs can be omitted if desired. The presence of eggs in a pudding greatly improves its flavour and appearance, but they make it richer and more difficult to digest. If the pudding is to be made with eggs it is always lighter when the white of the egg is beaten up separately, as this introduces air into the pudding and causes it to rise. Care must be taken to thoroughly cook all the farinaceous and starchy elements of the food. For flavouring, the most suitable are fresh lemon rind or juice, grated nutmeg, ground cinnamon, and essence of vanilla. Water Arrowroot or Corn Flour ^ oz. arrowroot or corn-flour. J pint cold water. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. Put the arrowroot into a small basin ; add to it a table-spoonful of cold water; break it with a wooden spoon imtil quite smooth. Then pour on the rest of the water, mix well, and pour into a small lined saucepan. Stir this over the fire until it boils and thickens, then let it boil for ten minutes to thoroughly cook the arrowroot. Sweeten to taste, and serve in a cup or small basin. A little nutmeg may be grated on the top, and wine or cream added if wished. Milk Arrou)7-oot or Corn Floicr I oz. arrowroot or corn-flour. ^ pint milk. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. Make in the same way as above, using milk instead of water. Anwvroot or Corn Flour Pudding \ oz. arrowroot. pint milk. 1 egg. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. Make in the same way as arrowroot and milk, and thoroughly boil the mixture for five minutes. Remove the pan from the fire ; add the sugar and any flavouring. Separate the yolk from the white; add the yolk to the arrowroot whenever it has slightly cooled ; add a pinch of salt to the white, and beat it up to a stiff' froth. Stir this lightly into the mixture and pour into a greased pie- dish, wiping round the edges of the dish. Bake in a moderate oven until well risen and of a nice light brown colour. Sprinkle some white sugar over it and serve at once, as it soon falls if allowed to stand.