323 LARYNX, EXAMINATION OF way, a sufficient view of the larynx can be ob- tained to make out the different parts more or less distinctly. This fact was observed by Czermak, but not considered of any diagnostic importance. Voltolini afterwards took up this method and pursued it with great diligence, employing a small electric lamp with a water lens as the source of illumination. It can be most conveniently carried out by employing the ordinary frontal sinus-lamp, which is best placed above or below the thyroid cartilage, and either at the side or in front of the neck. Voltolini expected great things from this method in the direction of distinguishing simple from infil- trating growths, and in determining the thick- ness of laryngeal webs. As a matter of fact it has little or no practical value, and the experience of Gottstein, that " in no case does it tell us more than the laryngoscope, but always less," coincides with that of the great majority of observers. 4. Skiagraphy of the Larynx.—The actual value of the X-ray method in examining the larynx is still comparatively small. That it enables us at times to locate more exactly the situation and lie of a foreign body in the larynx or trachea, is beyond doubt. But the hopes which have been expressed that the infiltration of malignant growths, or ankylosis of the crico- arytenoid articulations, might be detected by the use of the rays, have so far remained unfulfilled. By means of the photographic plate a more or less distinct picture of the hyoid bone and the laryngeal cartilages can be obtained, but the outline of the cartilages is so poorly defined that the diagnostic value of this method must be very little if any. Ossification of cartilage and fracture of the hyoid bone are said to have been detected by the use of the X-rays. 5. Palpation.—Through the introduction of laryngoscopy the diagnosis of laryngeal diseases by the educated finger has become a lost art. A sentence from Gairdner's Clinical Medicine, published in 1862, is of interest in this con- nection. "I am still of opinion," he writes, " that any one who has accustomed himself to the careful and scientific use of the finger in the diagnosis of laryngeal diseases will but rarely find his knowledge increased by the compara- tively troublesome and difficult method of laryngoscopy." Internal palpation is still of value in searching for foreign bodies, and in determining the size and consistence of growths of the epiglottis, aryepiglottic folds, and entrance to the larynx. In young children, too, it may at times help us to a diagnosis, as in multiple papillomata, which may be felt when situated above the glottis. The laryngeal sound, introduced under the guidance of the mirror, enables us to palpate those parts which are beyond the reach of the finger. It is the first instrument with the use of which the beginner should become familiar, as it will educate his eye and hand for the carrying out of all other intra-laryngeal maiii- pulations. It will be safest for him to practise with Schroetter's sound, which is simply an English bougie stiffened by having a stout wire run through its centre, before taking to the finer instruments made of silver, copper, or aluminium. The sound is employed to determine the mobility and consistence of tumours or swellings, to detect fluctuation, to gauge the depth of an ulcer and find the condition of the underlying cartilage, to hold aside growths or swellings at the entrance to the larynx, to raise the epiglottis when pendent, and to test the sensibility of the laryngeal mucous membrane. External 23alpO'tion will often be employed in examining the larynx and trachea. It enables us to determine the amount of lateral displace- ment of these organs from the pressure of growths in the neck, and at times to discover the cause of a stenosis not explained by the laryngoscope. We may detect crepitation in fracture or necrosis of the cartilages, and tenderness and swelling in external perichon- dritis. In many cases of tracheal obstruction we c&xi feel the stridor, and locate it better by the fingers than by the stethoscope. The value of palpation in detecting enlarged glands in syphilis and malignant disease hardly requires mentioning. Occasionally it will be found that pain in swallowing, for which no cause is discovered in the pharynx, or larynx, is due to a rheumatic affection of one of the external muscles, which will be tender on pressure. 6. Examination of the Trachea. — For this purpose a more intense light is required than for ordinary laryngoscopy. Where the trachea is straight and the epiglottis erect, we may often get a good view of the anterior wall and down to the bifurcation, by simply altering the angle at which the mirror is held. Slight ex- ternal pressure Avill often assist in straightening the trachea, or the same result may be obtained by placing the patient sideways in a chair, and then rotating his head so as to face the observer. The most successful method, however, and the only one which gives us a view of the posterior wall, is that suggested by Killian. The patient, having loosened all clothing about his neck, should stand with his head bent for- ward till the chin touches the sternum. The observer, either sitting or kneeling before him, reflects the light from below into the mouth. The laryngeal mirror, of as large a size as possible, should be placed rather farther for- ward, and held more horizontally than in ordinary laryngoscopy, while the soft palate is pushed strongly upwards. Where tracheotomy has been performed, a view of the under surface of the cords and of