LEPROSY 383 cording to Galen, a few cases had already appeared in Germany in the second century. Its diffusion was I'apid until in the Middle Ages it was universal, as is evidenced by the number of leper houses and legislative enactments in all the countries of Europe. It extended from England into Ireland and Scotland, where King Robert the Bruce died of the disease. With the establishment of leper houses came the fear of contact with the leper, and with the isolation of the lepers in the twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth centuries the disease began rapidly to diminish. This diminution began in England in the fourteenth century, and the last leper in Great Britain died in the Shetland Islands in the end of the eighteenth century. At the present time leprosy has disappeared from most parts of Europe, but there are still a few cases in certain parts of Spain and Portugal, and on the coasts of Provence; except in Spain, however, it is rapidly dis- appearing from these parts. There are still cases to be found in Greece, European Turkey, and most of the Mediterranean Islands. There are still many cases in Norway, Iceland, Lapland, and the Russian shores of the Baltic, in most of which places, however, and particularly in Norway, the numbers are diminishing. As the Norwegian law of isolation is to be put in force in Iceland, it is probable that the disease will be stamped out there. The following numbers, taken from the Reports of the International Leprosy Congress at Berlin in 1897, as reported in the Annates de dermatologie de syphiligraphie of that year, refer to the prevalence of the disease in different parts of the world at the present time :— " P. Kubler, in his review of the geographical distribution of leprosy, remarked that in Asia there is an immense centre (which includes the Indies, South China, and Japan), from which the disease spreads to the north as far as Siberia and Kamtschatka, westward to Persia, Turkestan, and Turkey in Asia, eastwards to the Sunda Islands and to the Moluccas. Australia and Oceania have many centres, mostly of emigrant Chinese. In Africa, where it is endemic on the mainland, he stated that the disease had invaded Madagascar, Mauritius, and Reunion. " The east side of South America, opposite Africa, is much more severely affected than the west side, with the exception of Columbia. North America is comparatively free ; in the United States there are only about 200 lepers. In Europe he laid stress on the importance of the Balkan Peninsula as a centre of the disease. " In Norway, where isolation is compulsory, the number has decreased from 2833 in 1856 to 321 in 1895. In Iceland there are 158 lepers, in Russia 1200, of whom 800 belong to European Russia. In Germany there have been 34 cases noted, all in the district of Memel, and of whom 19 have died. In Roumania there are noted 208 cases. In Turkey it is not possible to estimate even approximately their number, and at Constantinople alone there are not less than 500 to 600. In Egypt we find more than 3000 cases. In South Africa there are 600 in the Cape, 250 in Basutoland, 150 in the Orange Free State, more than 650 in East Griqualand and Transkei, 105 in the Transvaal, and 200 in Natal; in all, nearly 3000 cases. In the West Indies there is a large number of lepers, several thousands in Japan, and 4000 in the Sunda Islands. The ravages of the disease in the Sandwich Islands, Tahiti, Marquesas, and New Caledonia are well known. It is endemic in Mexico, Central and South America, and more particularly in the Antilles, Guianas, and Brazil, but above all in Columbia, where it is estimated that there are 30,000 in the 4,000,000 of inhabitants." Dr. Thomson described six cases of leprosy amongst the natives of New Zealand in 1854, whence it was probably introduced from some of the Polynesian Islands. Clinical Features. —■ The symptoms of leprosy, taken broadly, may be stated to depend on the localisation of the bacillus, and the localisation depends upon the circumstance that certain tissues afford a suitable soil for its development, whilst other tissues of the body are entirely or comparatively immune. In some individuals the nerves are chiefly affected by the development of the bacillus, the other tissues being spared. This difference in individual cases has led to the clinical distinc- tion of two forms of leprosy, which in their typical development contrast greatly in the outward manifestation of the disease. The two forms of leprosy thus recognised are tubercular leprosy and anaesthetic or nerve leprosy. It is proposed by Hansen and Looft that these two forms might be distinguished as lepra tuberosa and lepra maculo - antesthetica, the latter especially being a very suitable definition. We shall use the terms tubercular leprosy and nerve leprosy. Some authors describe a form of mixed leprosy in which the symptoms of tubercular leprosy and of nerve leprosy are coincident; but as sooner or later in all cases of tubercular leprosy the nerve trunks become affected, the cases of so-called " mixed" leprosy may be included amongst cases of tubercular leprosy. Symptoms of Lepra Tuberosa. — There is evidence to show that after the bacillus has established itself in the human organism, it produces toxic symptoms before it has increased to such an extent as to produce local manifesta- tions. These symptoms are often overlooked, and when present are very apt to be attributed to another cause. It is certain, however, that before the development of tubercular leprosy there is in many cases a history of occasional rigor, and pains and stiffness of the limbs,