471 LIVER, DISEASES OF Tuberculous Cavities in the Liver Synonyms : Local Tuberculosis in connection with the bile ducts, Tuberculous Cholangitis, Tuberculous Pericholangitis. This condition is probably not nearly so rare as the recorded cases lead one to suppose. The tubercle bacilli reach the liver by the portal vein, being obtained from the intestines, which in most of the cases show tuberculous ulcera- tion. Sargent states that the intrahepatic branches of the portal vein show tuberculous pylephlebitis and thrombosis, and that, at a later stage, tubercles develop in the portal spaces. The tubercles inside the portal spaces after reaching a fair size caseate, soften down, and eventually eat their way into the bile duct, into which they discharge their caseous contents in the same way that a pulmonary vomica opens into a bronchus. A local tuberculous cholan- gitis is thus secondarily brought about by the invasion of the duct from without; the tuber- culous change does not spread to the large extrahepatic ducts. The communication be- tween the duct and the emptied caseous cavity allows bile to enter into and stain its walls. The liver is usually somewhat larger than natural, and on section shows a number of white caseous areas or of bile-stained cavities with caseous walls. In the earlier stages, before the tubercles have opened into the ducts, the tuberculous material is firm, and resembles and is therefore sometimes regarded as lymph- adenoma ; in the later (excavitation) stage, when it has opened into a bile duct, its walls have a greenish-yellow colour from bile-staining, and ex- ceptionally of a purple colour from hjemorrhage. In their early stage the tubercles may be \-\ inch in diameter, while the cavities subsequently developed are larger, and may measure as much as an inch or even two inches across. Structurally the masses are enclosed in a fibrous capsule representing the fibrous tissue of the portal space, and containing caseating granulation tissue surrounding a space which in its turn can be seen opening into a bile duct; the epithelium of the bile duct is usually well preserved except at the point where it has been destroyed by the perforation from without. The tuberculous process is therefore pericholangitic, not cholangitic. Symptoms. —Since biliary obstruction to some extent must exist, it is remarkable that jaun- dice does not appear to occur. In some cases attacks of pain resembling in their character biliary colic, but without jaundice or bilious urine, have been noticed. Ascites does not occur, and nothing further is known as to the clinical results of this tuberculous lesion of the liver. Primary Tuberculosis of the Biliary Tract.— As stress has been laid on the bile ducts being secondarily involved in the tuberculous disease of the liver, it ought to be mentioned that Lancereaux has described a case of tuberculosis of the common bile duct, gall-bladder, and cystic duct in a woman aged thirty-two years, which he regards as directly due to infection from the duodenum. Local Tuberculosis not involving the Bile Ducts. Solitary Tubercle Under the title " solitary tubercle" it will be convenient to describe caseous tuberculous masses embedded in the liver substance without any connection with the bile ducts Masses of this kind are often met with in the livers of animals, but are rare in man. The fact that the masses do not open into the bile ducts suggests the probability that the tubercles have arisen in the substance of the liver as the result of bacilla conveyed to the liver by the hepatic artery—much in the same way as tuberculous foci are started in bone— and that the tubercle bacilli are not carried to the liver by the portal vein as in tuber- culous pericholangitis, where the morbid process occupies the portal canals. The recorded cases are curiously few. Moore in a recent paper only admits five; and of these two cases were of peculiar interest, in that in both caseous masses were found in the livers of patients dying of carcinoma of the pylorus. In both these cases the hepatic lesions resembled tubercle microscopically except in the absence of tubercle bacilli. It was thought that the absence of acid in the gastric juice had favoured the absorption of tubercle bacilli through the ulcerated surface of the stomach. As no tubercle bacilli were found, the possibility arises whether the caseous masses may not have been due to the activity of the pseudo-tuberculosis baccillus described by A. Pfeiffer and by Klein. Klein has recently shown that this bacillus, obtained from the water of the rivers Thames and Lee, produces caseous masses in the liver, lungs, and lymphatic glands of animals. It is, therefore, possible that some of these solitary caseous masses are not tuberculous. My own belief is that solitary tuberculous masses are not nearly so rare as the recorded instances would suggest; I have seen at least two myself. These localised caseous masses of tubercle must be carefully distinguished from gummata, and are hardly likely to be imitated by actinomycosis. Sometimes these solitary masses may soften down and form abscesses, and may then set up localised suppuration in the neighbourhood of the liver. In rare instances, as in a case related by Dr. T. L. Anderson, where there was a mass the size of a tangerine orange in the left lobe of the liver, they may be readily felt through the abdominal wall. The diagnosis of these caseous masses is usually impossible; if these nodules are felt in