317 LARDACEOUS DEGENERATION points or streaks showing the existence of the disease. Later on the organ becomes large, the cortex being pale and anaemic, the pyramids somewhat dark in colour. The capsule still strips easily, and the cut surface is smooth and glistening. On addition of iodine the Mal- pighian bodies show up as brown dots in the swollen cortex, and the arteries are mapped out as brown lines. Small yellowish streaks of fatty degeneration are usually present. Still later, in cases complicated by much nephritis, there may be shrinking of the newly-formed fibrous tissue : cysts may be found in the cortex of the organ, and the capsule may become adherent. The naked-eye appearance resembles very closely the ordinary large and small white kidneys of chronic tubal nephritis. Microscopically, it is found that the change starts in the glomeruli and spreads to the middle coat of the afferent arteries and arterite rectse, finally involving also the connective tissue throughout the organ. The epithelium of the tubes does not undergo amyloid change, but is frequently found in a condition of cloudy swelling and degeneration, owing to accompanying nephritis. In chronic cases interstitial inflammation may cause in- creased formation of fibrous tissue, and the tubules may become blocked and give rise to small cysts. The exact relation of the nephritis to the amyloid disease is not known, but it seems probable that the existence of the de- generation and the pressure exerted by the new material diminish the resistance of the essential cells of the kidney, and predispose them to attack by irritant substances, one of which may even be the same toxin which gives rise to amyloid degeneration. It is noteworthy that when amyloid disease of the kidneys is secondaiy to suppuration occurring in one of these organs, both are equally affected by the degenerative process. Effects.—It is impossible to separate the effects produced by amyloid disease of the liver and spleen from those of the primary cause of the degeneration. In the case of the kidney and intestine, however, definite symptoms are produced, disease of the former leading to albu- minuria and even dropsy and ursemia (see infra), that of the latter to a severe and intractible form of diarrhoea, which invariably terminates fatally. Clinical Characters.—Patients suffering from lardaceous disease due to syphilis or occurring as a " primary'' condition may not, at first, present any very marked degree of wasting; but in cases due to suppuration emaciation is profound, and all the symptoms of hectic fever are usually present. There is marked ansemia in all cases. The abdomen is enlarged owing to the increase in size of the liver and spleen, and occasionally to accompanying ascites ; but, apart from cases with general dropsy, coexisting cirrhosis, or perihepatitis, it is probable that this symptom only occurs when there are en- larged glands pressing on the portal vein, or in the rare instances in which the radicles of this vein are affected by the degeneration. The organs are generally painless and not tender to the touch, but in some cases both pain and tenderness may be found. The edges of both liver and spleen may be easily felt through the thin abdominal wall, smooth, firm, and regular, reaching often below the um- bilicus, and sometimes separated by no very clear dividing line. The urine is increased in quantity and contains albumen in varying but always considerable amounts ; and diarrhoea, due to implication of the intestine, appears towards the end. Experience of cases that have occurred in Charing Cross Hospital shows that the liver is the organ usually first recog- nised as affected, and that it may attain a large size before the spleen is palpable. The kidney suffers next to the spleen, and the intestine only in very advanced stages. In some cases, however, especially those due to syphilis or to primary renal tuberculosis, the kidney may be, from the outset, most markedly affected, amyloid change in the other oi'gans being only detected after death. The course of the disease is almost invariably progressive, owing to the difficulty of treating the primary cause. Cases, however, in which the suppuration can be stopped, may recover from the amyloid degeneration; and this has been shown to occur also in animals. Amyloid disease is a comparatively rare affection at the present day, owing to the introduction of anti- septic methods in surgery, and the consequent diminution in the number of cases of suppura- tion. Children suffering from hip-disease are probably its most frequent victims, but, apart from suppuration, it is a rare affection at this period of life. The clinical symptoms of amyloid kidney must be considered in detail, since the de- generation may affect this organ primarily, and give rise to phenomena liable to be attri- buted to ordinary nephritis. In cases due to continued suppuration the liver and spleen generally suffer first. After a time the urine begins to increase in quantity and becomes pale in colour, the density being correspond- ingly diminished; later on it becomes albumi- nous, the percentage of albumen at first being small. As a rule the disease of the kidney is not, in such cases, of any vital importance. In syphilitic cases, on the other hand, or in such as are apparently primary, it is often only in advanced stages that the sufferers come for treatment. In addition to the pallor and malnutrition of the patient, the urine is found loaded with albumen, pale in colour, and often neutral or alkaline in reaction. The quantity, at this stage, may be normal or even diminished, but is more often increased to