516 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES trunks of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. (b) Morbid growths, of a cancerous character mostly, may impinge upon the wall of the portal vein more especially near the gate of the liver and determine the formation of a thrombus in the trunk of the vein; but the large trunks which converge to form the portal vein may each and all be involved in malignant growths according as the cancer has its seat in the pylorus, the pancreas, or the mesentery. The lymphatic glands on the front of the vertebral column may be the seat of cancerous or tubercular deposit, and one of the branches of the portal vein may become involved in the tumour, with the result that the vein traversing the mass becomes thrombosed. Not only may this thrombus occupy the branch, but, from the smaller vessels, the coagulum may extend to the main trunk. (c) Inflammatory thickenings having their origin in gastric or pyloric ulcers or in pancreatic inflammation may encroach upon and involve the portal vein, leading to the deposit of coagula and the formation of a completely obstructing thrombus. (d) Chronic peritonitis may cause constriction of tlie portal vein near the gate of the liver or of the mesenteric vein, etc., with a resulting thrombosis. 3. Thrombosis commencing in the Penpheral Radicles of the Portal Vein.—In any one of the several chylopoietic viscera, inflammatory or other lesions may cause the formation of thrombi which extend towards the main channels or the trunk of the portal vein, or emboli may become detached and block the terminal capillaries of the portal vein within the liver itself, leading to thrombosis. It is but seldom that adhesive thrombosis results from lesions of this nature, the suppurative form being the more common ; yet it is not unknown clinically—coagula becoming detached from the neighbourhood of ulcers and cancerous growth in the intestines and other viscera and buried in the liver. Signs and Symptoms.—Obstruction of the portal vein, due to adhesive thrombosis, be the origin what it may, presents many signs and symptoms in common. The affection is characterised by a rather chronic manifestation of symptoms when compared with the more acute course of thrombosis of a suppurative character. The disease does not arise primarily, but as a superimposed lesion in some con- stitutional or local disease. Although disease of the thoracic viscera may play a part in the etiology, it is in the abdominal viscera that the genesis of the ailment is to be looked for. During the course of cirrhosis or cancer of the liver, of ulceration of either a cancerous or inflammatory nature in other abdominal viscera, of chronic peritonitis, etc., obstruction of the portal vein may arise. The onset of the disease is usually sudden, or, at all events, the mani- festation of the results of a gradual thrombosis declares itself suddenly. Ascites is one of the most constant develop- ments in portal thrombosis. It is natural it should be so, and it is also natural that the ascitic fluid should accumulate rapidly. In a few days the abdomen may be enormously distended with fluid, and the rapidity of its accumulation is well shown by the way in which the abdomen fills after paracentesis has been performed. The only cases in which ascites may occupy a secondary place is when relief to the congested portal vein is obtained by hsemor- rhage into either the stomach or the intestine. Occasionally the ascites is gradually developed, implying an incomplete blocking of the venous channel, or from the fact that only one of the main tributaries of the portal vein is involved. Disorders of the alimentary canal, due to adhesive portal thrombosis, are universal. In the stomach, vomiting, dyspepsia, and hsema- temesis are usual concomitants, the loss of blood being at times alarming. An intestinal flux, of the nature of watery diarrhoea, or accompanied by some haemorrhage from the bowel, is a pre- dominant feature; the haemorrhage, however, may be severe, amounting at times to the passage of a quantity of almost pure blood from the bowel. Piles, although an early feature of the disease, cease to give trouble usually when either ascites or an intestinal flux, simple or haemorrhagic, takes place. The spleen swells to many times its normal bulk, a fact which may be only discernible when the ascitic fluid has been drawn off. Should, however, the portal vein be relieved by either haematemesis or haemorrhage from the bowel, the spleen may be simultaneously relieved and assume normal proportions. Should, on the other hand, the spleen be bound down by previous perisplenitis, or its parenchyma altered by chronic disease, its enlargement may be arrested. The liver may show few signs of alteration, apart from the original disease of which it may have been the seat. The size seldom exceeds the normal, and, as a rule, it is diminished in size owing to the prevalent cirrhosis. Should one branch or one division of a branch of the portal vein as it breaks up in the liver become alone the seat of thrombosis, an atrophy of the part of the liver to which it is distributed ensues. Post-mortem lesions of this nature are occasionally met with, although no evidence of hepatic derangement has been observed during life. The liver in the part cut off from portal blood shrivels, the hepatic cells liquefy, and the residue becomes absorbed, and a mass of cicatricial fibrous tissue takes their place. As, however, it is now well known that when one part of the liver is cut off from nutrition