526 LOGOMANIA OR LOGOMONOMANIA Lo^omania or Logfomono- nriania. — Insanity associated with great talkativeness or loquacity. Logwood. *S'ee H^matoxyli Lignum. LoimolOgy.—The science of the study of infectious maladies (Gr. Xol/jlos, pestilence). Loin.—The part of the body situated (on both sides) between the false ribs and the iliac bone. See Lumbar Region. Loka.—A watering-place in Sweden where there are mud-baths {see Balneology, Sweden) ; also an arrow-poison, probably of the nature of nux vomica. Lolium Temulentum. — Darnel seeds, which, if present in bread, may cause poisonous symptoms (vertigo, delirium, and other nervous symptoms). Longevity. See Vital Statistics {Be- termination of Longevity); Senile Insanity [Dementia, the '■^fatal psychical heritage of Longevity "). ''Longings."—The disordered appetite often associated with pregnancy in which the patient desires to eat unusual or unsuitable things; pika. LongiSSimuS.—A name given to various muscles characterised by their great length, e.g. the longissimus dorsi, and the longis- simus cervicis (or trachelo-mastoid) muscles. LongUS. — A name applied to many muscles of the body to distinguish them from neighbouring or similarly acting muscles of less extent, e.g. the supinator radii longus, the palmaris longus, and the flexor longus pollicis, etc. Loose Bodies. See Ankle-Joint, Region of, Diseases (Loose Bodies); BuRS^, Injuries and Diseases op (Tuberculous Bursitis); Joints, Diseases of (Loose Bodies); Knee-Joint, Diseases op (Tuberculous Affections, Diagnosis). Loose Shoulders.—The name given to an abnormal mobility of the scapulae seen in certain muscular dystrophies, e.g. in Erb's progressive muscular dystrophy. Lopez Root.—The dried root-bark of Toddalia aculeata; it is used in India and the Colonies, and is described in the Indian and Colonial addendum to the B. P. of 1898. There are two preparations, the Infihsum Toddalioe (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.), and the Liquor Toddalim Concentratus (dose, J to 1 fl. dr.); it is a vegetable bitter, and is used for the same purposes as other bitters (to increase the appetite, aid the digestion, etc.). LophO-.—In compound words lopho- (Gr. Xocfjo'i, a ridge or tuft) means tuft-like, e.g. in the group of bacteria called lophotrichous (having cilia in tufts) and in lophocomous (having the hair in tufts). Lordosis.—Spinal curvature in which the convexity is directed forwards; it is usually an exaggeration of the normal lumbar curve. See Cretinism (In Adult Age, Description); Defor- mities (Congenital Dislocation of the Hip, Diagnosis); Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed (Pelvic Deformities, Kyphotic Pelvis) ; Paralysis (Spastic, Clinical Aspect); Spine, Surgical Affections of (Lordosis). Lorenz Operation. — A method ("bloodless") of treating congenital dislocation of the hip, in which the dislocation is forcibly reduced and the head of the femur is maintained in contact with -the ilium till a deep enough acetabulum is formed to keep it permanently in position. See Deformities (Congenital Dis- location of the Hip), Reduction). Loreta's Operation.—The forcible dilatation of the pyloric outlet of the stomach (by fingers or dilating instruments); pyloro- diosis. See Stomach, Surgical (Operations on the Stomach). Loretine. — An antisep tic substance (CgHjjIO^SN), a derivative of quinoline; it is employed in aqueous solution (1 in 1000) or as a dusting powder. Los Angeles. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (American). LoSOphan.—A proprietary preparation (triiodometacresol, C^HjIgO), used in the treat- ment of skin diseases ; it contains 80 per cent of iodine. Lota Vulgaris. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes (Fish). LotiO.—A lotion or wash, for external application; there are two official lotiones, the lotio hydrargyri flava and the lotio hydrargyri nigra. Lotio Rubra.—Red lotion; a solution of the sulphate of zinc coloured with red compound tincture of lavender, acting as an astringent wash in cases of ulceration, etc. Lotio SpiritUS.—A wash or lotion used in cases of bruise or sprain, and consisting of 4 parts of rectified spirit to 1 of water. Louis's Law.—The statement that the lungs always contain tubercles if there is tuber- culosis of any other part of the body. Lou ping III.—A peculiar disease met with in animals (sheep), which is characterised by springing or leaping movements during pro- gression ; it is said to be due to a bacillus.