301 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—CESAREAN SECTION was dead. Stolz advocated Csesarean section whenever the child was alive and could not be brought through the natural passage. Scanzoni .... under 3 in. Naegele and Spiegelberg . ,, 2 „ Barnes, Playfair, and Leishman ,, IJ „ Of late years the good results following Csesarean section in the hands of Cameron, Leopold, Sanger, and other operators have mate- rially changed the views of many authors, who now favour Csesarean section more than they have done in the past. Lusk, at the International Congress held at Washington in 1887, declared that Csesarean section was preferable to embryotomy even with a conjugate diameter from 2^ to 3 inches when the child was alive. It can well be urged that:— (1) Embryotomy in a very contracted pelvis is as dangerous to the mother as Csesarean section. (2) Embryotomy always compromises the life of the child, whilst Csesarean section gives a living child. (3) No one has any right to sacrifice a child where he can save it without exposing the mother to any additional risk. For these reasons the operation should be one of election when the child is alive, and it should be performed before the patient is exhausted— in fact, early after labour has commenced, or even at full term before labour sets in, especially in multiparse. In all cases it should be done before rupture of the membranes, and, if possible, the patient should be placed under the care of an experienced operator. Little difl&culty is experienced in obtaining the consent of the patient and her friends; and it is better to have her under observation pre- vious to the operation, so as to regulate her diet, and have her prepared for operation beforehand. A very important point in favour of Csesarean section is that the Fallopian tubes can be tied and divided, so as to prevent subsequent con- ception, whereas embryotomy may require to be performed ten or a dozen times. Besides deformity of the pelvis, other con- ditions, such as tumours or cancer of the cervix uteri, may exist which would demand either Csesarean section or some modification of it. If the child be dead and the conjugate dia- meter not over inches, Csesarean section should be done. Rousset, the earliest writer upon this subject, recognised the indications, the one furnished by the foetus, and the other by the mother. Under the first category he placed excessive size of the foetus, monstrosities, and faulty positions; under the second he placed marked contractions from whatever cause. Some operators would include placenta prsevia and puerperal con- vulsions. Csesarean section might be advisable in some cases of eclampsia, but a skilful obstet- rician would never think of such procedure in the case of placenta prsevia. In fact, the operators who advocate this step are surgeons who have little or no experience in obstetric practice. Our decision for operation should be based upon the degree of contraction of the pelvis, the size of the child's head, and its reducibility, unless the obstruction is due to some other cause, such as cancer or the presence of a tumour in the pelvic cavity. Every practitioner should be able to form a fair estimate of the amount of contraction, as it is easier to measure a contracted pelvis than a normal one ; and it does not require a highly skilled obstetrician to say before labour has commenced, or during the early stage of the process, that the diameter of the pelvis is, or is not less than 3 inches; and, as a matter of fact, such a pronouncement should be within the skill of the ordinary practitioner, who should be more than a generally useful person, other- wise he will sink to the level of an ignorant midwife. Not only must he be able to form an estimate of the amount of contraction, but, by patient study of normal cases, qualify himself to form an opinion as to whether it will be impossible for a living child to pass, and also whether, under the difficult circumstances in which he may be placed, it would not be better to send the patient where Csesarean section could be safely performed than to extract a mutilated foetus through a minimum diameter. With a diameter under 2| inches, where en- gagement of the head is impossible, no one should hesitate to advise Csesarean section, although there will always remain cases, such as where the child is dead or a subject of hydrocephalus, in which craniotomy may be resorted to. Experience alone will enable one to avoid extreme measures in cases with a conjugate diameter measuring more than 3 inches, and where the skilled practitioner will weigh the chances between premature induction of labour and symphysiotomy. There can be no questioning that Csesarean section is a highly dangerous operation ; but the danger, it should be remembered, depends for the most part on delay, and death most frequently results not so much from the operation, as from previous operative abuse, which is the just term for all injudicious attempts to extract the foetus through a deformed natural passage. Success depends upon prompt interference before the patient is exhausted, as then there is less danger from haemorrhage, delayed shock, or peritonitis. When Csesarean section has been resolved upon, another question presents itself, namely, whether Csesarean section or Porro's operation is preferable. If the former, there still remains