LEPROSY 388 The leprosy bacillus closely resembles the tubercle bacillus in size and staining properties. Yet in form they are not absolutely identical, successful photographs showing that the lejjrosy bacillus is slightly club-shaped. It also shows a tendency to develop in groups, even within one cell, a quality which is not shown by the bacillus of tubercle. Certain distinctions are also made regarding the capacity for staining and for retention of the stain, but these differences can hardly be considered as well established. It has been maintained that an essential difference between the leprous and tubercle de- generations is to be found in the presence and absence of so-called " giant" cells, these appear- ances being held to be absent in leprosy; but this is not quite exact. Although much more frequent in tubercle than in leprosy, they are also found in the latter disease. Until, how- ever, a definite understanding is come to as to what a " giant" cell actually is, and how it is formed, the point is not one on which great importance can be laid. Pathology of Lepra Maculo-An^sthetica. —For some time it was considered that bacilli were not found in nerve leprosy. Dr. Arning was the first to show the presence of bacilli in a portion of an excised nerve, and since then other observers have confirmed his statement. Darier has recently given an account of the changes found in the erythemato-pigmentary patches of nerve leprosy. The first change is an infiltration of cells in the sheaths round the blood-vessels. In some parts these infiltrated sheaths become confluent and form layers of cells. The majority of these cells are small connective tissue cells, with which are mixed in varying proportions white corpuscles, plasma cells, a few mast cells, and, in rare cases, giant cells. In eight out of nine cases which he examined he detected the presence of bacilli. Whether the spots were old or recent, erythe- matous or purely pigmented, there were some- times very few present, at other times they were very numerous. The first pathological changes, therefore, are identical in kind though differing in degree from those found in nodular leprosy. Similar changes are described by Hansen and Looft, who, in an old anaesthetic patch, found only very slight infiltration along the vessels. " The cells were mostly spindle-shaped, only a few were round or epithelial. In most of the sections no bacilli were found ; in some, one or two distinct bacilli and some granules which took the same stain were present." Until recently it was considered that leprous affections of the spinal cord did not exist. This opinion has, however, been recently modified. Looft has found in two cases of nerve leprosy degeneration of the posterior columns, atrophy of the posterior roots and fibres, degeneration of the spinal ganglia, with disappearance of the medullary fibres and changes in the nerve-cells. In these two cases the affection appeared to be primary in the ganglia and secondary in the cord. Leprosy bacilli were not found in these cases; but Chariotti found them once in the cord, and Suderkowitsch in a spinal ganglion. Babes found bacilli nine times in the spinal cord, three times in the anterior horns, and often in the spinal ganglia. Generally they are found in the protoplasm of the nerve-cells, which are sometimes vacuolated and altered, and some- times normal. It would appear that sometimes the centres and sometimes the peripheral nerves are primarily invaded. Whilst the pathological changes in the skin and nerves in this form of leprosy are caused by the direct infection of the bacillus leprse, the tropho-neurotic changes in muscles, bones, and joints appear to be secondary, as the bacillus has not been found in these tissues. The atrophy of the muscles regarded by Neisser as a specific leprous process is regarded by G. and E. Hoggan as secondary, and due to neuritis an opinion supported by Hansen and Looft. The following views regarding the relations of tubercular and nerve leprosy were expressed at the Berlin Conference :— Neisser considered that the difference between tubercular and nerve leprosy is not simply one of quantity of the bacilli, but in the nature of the morbid process which they produce. In the one case the change leads to proliferation whilst in the other it is an atrophic one Hansen considered that climate has an influence on the forms ; Blaschko, that it is only a differ ence in the quantity of the bacilli. Dehu and Gerlach had proved that the bacilli can affect the nerves, beginning at the peripheral cuta- neous extremity. Arning considered the differ ence fundamental: in the tubercular form the nerves may be stuffed with bacilli, with yet few nervous changes ; whilst in nerve leprosy there may be few bacilli in the nerves and in the skin and yet anaesthesia, amyotrophic sweat troubles and neuralgia are present. Etiology.—The etiology of leprosy is much simplified since the discovery of the bacillus As tuberculosis is dependent on the develop- ment in the tissues of the tubercle bacillus, so leprosy in all its forms is dependent upon the changes in the tissues which are selected by the leprosy bacillus. Although the proof in the case of the leprosy bacillus is not logically complete, inasmuch as the disease has not been communicated to a healthy individual by the cultivated bacillus, yet the universal presence of the organism in this disease, and its absence in persons free from leprosy, warrants the as sumption that it is the true cause of the malady The grounds on which it is held that leprosy- is a bacillary disease are that the bacillus is always present in cases of the malady, that its