LABOUR, ACCIDENTAL COMPLICATIONS 251 may occur in the absence of any manipulations, in which case it is due to faihire of the arm following the rotation of the trunk. The fore- arm of the child in this way comes to lie behind the nape of the neck, and interferes with the descent of the after-coming head through the pelvic brim. The treatment consists in attempt- ing to rotate the body of the child in the opposite direction to that which caused the displacement, then seizing the forearm, and bringing it down over the front of the chest. Where the displace- ment occurs as a complication of vertex presenta- tions, the projection caused by the arm interferes with the descent of the head through the cavity of the pelvis. Diagnosis is often very difficult. It may sometimes be possible to feel the arm above the pubes, but in other cases the delay in descent of the head can only be explained by passing the hand up past the head and ascertain- ing the position of the arm. Having found this condition, the best means of treatment is to perform internal version. D. Prolapse of Foot This is a frequent occurrence in case of pelvic presentations, and may be artificially produced when version has been performed. These will not be discussed now. The cases of prolapse of the lower extremity which may be considered as an accidental complication are those in which the foot is prolapsed by the side of the head. The causes are similar to those already described as giving rise to prolapse of the arm, being espe- cially frequent in dead and premature children. Where the condition is found associated with vertex presentations an attempt may be made to push upwards the limb, and to press the head down into the pelvis. Failing this, it is best to pull one foot, and at the same time press the head upwards toward the fundus, in this way producing a footling presentation. Injuries to the Fcetus during Labour.—It will be convenient here to consider the numerous injuries to which the foetus is exposed during the course of delivery. The majority of these occur in connection with pelvic presentations, especially where pelvic contraction is present in the same patient. Wherever labour is obstructed by ab- normal conditions of the foetus or of the pelvis, the delicate tissues of the foetus are liable to suffer injury. In breech presentations, injury to the vessels and soft parts about the groin and damage to the external genital organs may result from traction with the fillet and blunt hook :—Hsemor- rhage into the liver, spleen, or around the kidneys may be caused by forcible traction on trunk; fracture of femur or humerus may be due to attempts to bring down a leg or arm ; fracture of clavicle may arise from the same cause ; bruis- ing of the muscles of the spine and back of the neck from traction on the legs and over the shoulders; haemorrhage into the sterno-mastoid muscle is also caused l)y traction over shoulders ; injury to the articulation of the lower jaw from traction by means of the finger on the lower jaw. Dislocations are rare. In face presentations, damage to the eyes may result from want of care in making a vaginal examination. Injury to the muscles and soft structures of the neck may be caused by extraction with forceps in mento-posterior positions. In vertex presentations, bruising and haemor- rhage into the brain or beneath the dura mater may result from difficult forceps deliveries. Fracture of the cranial bones may be produced by precipitate labour. In cases of contracted pelvis, grooving and indentations of the scalp and cranial bones may be seen with or without hasmorrhage beneath the pericranium or within the skull. Paralysis of the facial nerve may be due to forceps delivery in vertex presentations. The paralysis usually disappears shortly after labour. Still-Birth.—By still-birth is understood that condition in which the child after birth does not show the ordinary signs of life, but at the same time the signs of life may return either permanently or for a time if suitable treatment is employed. Cases in which intra-uterine death has occurred during pregnancy from various causes are not included under this title. Under normal circumstances, at the moment of birth the foetus enjoys a condition of apnoea. Very soon—within a minute or two—a sense of want of oxygen is experienced, which acts as a stimulus to the medullary centre, and respira- tory movements are initiated. The alteration in the surrounding medium may also act as a peripheral stimulus to the respiratory centre in the medulla. Any condition which interferes with the supply of oxygen to the foetus during labour, and anything that prevents the entrance of air into the lungs, when the pulmonary circulation is established after the birth of the child, causes asphyxia to supervene, and the child is then said to be still-born. The onset of asphyxia is accompanied by expansion of the thorax, with opening up of the pulmonary circulation in the foetus; this is followed by the inspiration of any media which happen to suiTound the child at the time. If it occurs while the head still lies in the cavity of the pelvis, even though it may be possible for some air to find its way into the lungs, liquor amnii mixed with mucus, hairs, etc., may be drawn into the lungs, and oxygenation of the foetal blood will be interfered with. With the open- ing up of the pulmonary circulation, less blood passes along the umbilical arteries to the placenta, and as a consequence the centres in the medulla become less well supplied with blood, and their irritability is diminished. The respiratory movements gradually cease, and asphyxia results. In other cases asphyxia is