277 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—INDUCTION OF PREMATURE LABOUR which, while threatening the life of the mother, is due to or is aggravated by pregnancy. To illustrate the relative frequency of the various conditions in which labour is induced in modern practice, it may be mentioned that in 44 cases reported by S. Korscheban,i 11 induc- tions were for contracted pelvis; 3 for osteo- malacia; 14 for lesions of the heart; 7 for nephritis ; 3 for pernicious nausea ; 5 for tuber- culosis ; and 1 for perityphlitic abscess. The maternal mortality was 6 per cent, this being entirely in cases where the operation was under- taken on the mother's behalf, and was in no case traceable to the operation ; 79"4 per cent of the children were born living. Apart from con- tracted pelvis, Heyman (see infra) has recently induced labour most frequently for threatened eclampsia, lesions of the heart, and tubercu- losis. Methods.—In reviewing the various methods by which labour may be induced, it is not necessary to mention the use of agents such as ergot and quinine, for the action of all drugs is much too unreliable for this purpose. The same applies to mechanical irritation of the nipples, and other devices which have from time to time been suggested for setting up uterine con- tractions. The original method of inducing labour was simple puncture of the membranes, and for many years it remained the only one in use. It is sure to be followed by labour sooner or later, but delivery is by no means always ended during the life of the child. The bag of fore- waters being absent, the foetal head has to play the part of dilator, and is exposed to the pressure of the parts dilated during the slow progress of a "dry labour." Owing to its lui- certainty as to time, and the undue risk to the child, puncture of the membranes has been given up in cases where induction is undertaken in order to allow of the birth of a living child through a narrow pelvis. In certain cases, however, where the indication is some condition threatening the life of the mother, such as eclampsia or accidental htemorrhage, rupture of the membranes forms a useful initial step towards emptying the uterus. Daily repeated digital dilatation of the cervix was the method which displaced puncture of the membranes. The objection to this method is that the practitioner may have to dilate the cervix daily for ten or twelve days before the onset of labour. The results, however, are excellent, and other measures may be adopted at any time if progress is too slow. In the year 1824, Professor Hamilton of Edinburgh was teaching and employing this method. Its value may be judged from the results of Moir,^ who employed it from the year 1833 until the ^ Monatschrift filr GeburtshiUfe und Gyndkologie, Band ii. Heft 1, 1900. 2 Obstet. Trans. Edin., vol. xxiii., 1897-98. year 1884. During that time, he induced labour in 26 patients — eight times in one patient, five times in three, four times in one, thrice in ten, twice in three, and once in eight. Of the 72 children (twins once) 59 were born living and healthy, and 13 were still-born. The operation was thus successful as regards the child in 82 per cent of his cases. Moir induced labour 69 times without losing one mother, but the last two patients upon whom he operated died during the puerperium. He used to begin by passing through the cervix a metal rectal bougie, and turning it round so as to separate the membranes near the os. This was repeated daily, imtil " in the course of three or four days, but sometimes not until six or seven, the con- dition not only of the os and cervix, but also of the vagina, became entirely changed so as to be soft, relaxed, and dilatable, very much as at the full time." So soon as this occurred dilatation was continued with one and then with two fingers, once or twice daily, imtil pains began. Vaginal douching with hot water was intro- duced as a mode of inducing labour by Kiwisch, in the year 1836. Repeated with sufficient frequency day after day douching will induce uterine contractions, but it is a very uncertain and slow method. The constant flow of water over the part sets up an unhealthy condition of the vagina, and renders it peculiarly liable to become the seat of septic infection by removing the natural discharge and the superficial epi- thelium. Its employment has been recently advocated by Larwey.^ Of late years the most popular method of inducing labour has been that of Krause. A flexible bougie (not a catheter) is introduced through the cervix, and pushed up between the membranes and the uterine wall until its point lies about seven inches above the level of the os internum. The portion of the bougie remaining outside the uterus is then coiled up or cut off short, and a pad of gauze is placed in the vagina in order to keep the bougie in position. When pains begin, which usually happens within a few hours, the bougie is withdrawn and labour is allowed to proceed naturally. There is con- siderable risk of puncturing the membrane when inserting the bougie, and the placenta may be injured and partly separated should the instru- ment chance to traverse that part of the uterine wall to which it is attached. These risks are naturally increased when, as is sometimes necessary, a second bougie is inserted after waiting in vain during some hours for the onset of labour. Briggs,^ of Liverpool, has advised the insertion of three or four bougies together at the Vieginning, a course which inci-eases the rapidity of the method, but also obviously multiplies its risks. The nature of the results which may be obtained by the use of the bougie 1 Archiv fur Oyn., Band Ix. Heft 3, 1900. " Trans. North of England Gyn. Sac, Nov. 1893.