LABOUR, ACCIDENTAL COMPLICATIONS 248 If the cervix is only large enough to admit two lingers, an attempt may be made to replace the cord by means of a repositor. Replacement with the fingers is rarely satisfactory at this stage, as it is seldom possible to push up the cord into a position where it will remain, unless the whole hand can be introduced through the OS. Special instruments are made for the purpose of replacing the cord, called repositors; but a new English catheter, size No. 10, answers the purpose well, and has the advantage of always being available. If a catheter is used it is necessary to cut a small hole in the end of the catheter opposite the eye, and to pass a piece of tape through it. The piece of tape is then passed round the loop of prolapsed cord near its end, and fixed to the end of the catheter sufficiently tightly to prevent its slipping through, but still allowing for circulation in the umbilical vessels. The stilette is now intro- duced along the catheter to give it the necessary stiffness, and it is passed up with the loop of cord into the uterus. The stilette should then be withdrawn, but the catheter is left in situ, as it in no way interferes with the course of laboiir. The foetal heart must be carefully watched, and should it show signs of failing, other means must be resorted to. Should the cord again prolapse after its reposition, further manipulation is harmful to the child, and it is safer to have recourse to bipolar version while there is still a chance of saving the child. If the OS is sufficiently dilated to admit the hand when the case is first seen, two methods of treatment are possible. In the first place, an attempt may be made to carry up the loop of cord in the palm of the hand past the head, and to hook it over one of the lower limbs. When this has been done, the further progress of the case may be left to the natural forces should the cord remain m utero. Should the cord, however, again descend, the safety of the child will best be ensured by passing the hand up into the uterus, seizing a leg, and bringing it down into the vagina. Lastly, certain cases are met with where the OS is dilated to three-fourths its full size when the prolapse is discovered. Under these cir- cumstances rapid completion of the delivery by means of forceps is indicated. It is probable that in this operation a certain amount of laceration of the cervix will occur, and in the case of a primipara the perineum may also be extensively lacerated as a result of the rapid delivery. It must be remembered, however, that these injuries to the mother are capable of immediate repair, and are not followed by any permanent injury, whereas in the case of the child its life is in serious jeopardy. It is, there- fore, not only justifiable, but it is good practice, to risk these possible injuries to the mother in the interests of the child. In this country all are agreed that the first duty of the medical attendant is towards the mother, where the question of treatment concerns the life of the mother versus the life of the child. In the present instance this is not the point at issue. What we have to weigh in the balance is the life of the child as against a t?uumatism to the mother, which with proper antiseptic treatment is readily repaired, and for this reason the life of the child claims our consideration. It is necessary now to consider what line of treatment should be adopted where prolapse of the cord is associated with presentations other than vertex. In cases of bi'eech presenta- tion the pressure on the cord, and, therefore, the danger to the child, is rarely so great as in vertex presentations, owing to the less resistant character of the presenting part. The best treatment is to pass the hand up and bring down a leg. This not only diminishes the size of the presenting parts, but the half- breech readily adapts itself within the lower segment of the uterus, and prevents the cord from again becoming prolapsed. Further, the presence of the leg in the vagina enables the child to be delivered rapidly by traction upon it should the foetal heart show signs of weak- ness or slowing of the beats. In the case of oblique or shoulder presentations, the treatment called for to correct this abnormal presenta- tion will remove the cord from its position of danger. Where prolapse of the cord is associated with a flattened pelvis, reposition of the cord should not be attempted, as it is unlikely that it will be followed by any permanent results, owing to the shape of the pelvic inlet, which prevents the descent of the presenting part, and so interferes with its adaptation to the lower uterine segment. The best result will be obtained by performing bipolar or internal version, according as the os admits only two fingers or the whole hand. If the contraction of the pelvis is of such a kind that the delivery of a living child after the performance of version is not to be expected, it is best to replace the cord by means of a repositor, and to extract with forceps as soon as the cervix is sufficiently dilated to admit the passage of the child without undue risk to the mother. Lastly, cases occur in which the prolapse of the cord is a complication of placenta prsevia. The best method of treatment in these is to replace the cord with the hand, the patient lying in the latero-prone position on her left side, with the hips slightly raised. After pushing up the cord out of the way, introduce a de Ribes' bag into the lower segment of the uterus and distend it with boiled water or weak carbolic solution. The distended bag not only checks further haemorrhage during the dilatation of the os, but its presence in the lower uterine segments prevents the cord from again becoming prolapsed. After expulsion of