KIDNEY 100 Diagnosis.—Apart from the latent cases there are two broad types, the acute and the chronic. The practitioner is most likely to be led astray only during the early stage before the swelling appears, and only pain and fever are present. In cases where fever aiul rigms are the prominent feature of the case, some acute infectious disease, such as influenza, scarlatina, or typhoid is simulated. In the history there may be little to guide one, but a strain or lumbar injury should always lead to examination of the kidney region. The pain in the back in these fevers is more general, and there is no tendency to unilateral localisation as in perirenal inflammation. In a few days the appearance of a rash or other signs will clear up any doubt. In cases of less febrile type the continuous aching or shooting pain may resemble lumbago, neuralgia, and even renal colic. In lumbago the pain shows some relation to movement, it is bilateral, the muscles are tender on pinching them up, and fever is wanting. In neuralgia there is absence of the marked tenderness of perirenal abscess, no temperature or rigors, and the pain is more completely intermittent. Renal colic is accompanied by marked urinary changes, blood, pus, and frequent micturition, and these are reliable guides, because the onset and course of the symptoms in the form of perirenal abscess which complicates renal cal- culous disease, and which is accompanied by changes in the urine, are usually insidious and moderate (Fenwick). At a later stage, when a swelling has become evident, the condition most likely to be mistaken for perinephritis is pyonephrosis. pyonephrosis.—Here, however, the course is more chronic and the symptoms less severe, pain is not a marked feature of the disease, tenderness is less marked, the tumour is well defined and regular, and the skin of the post- renal area lacks that waxy, (Edematous condition so frequently observed in perinephritis. Appendicitis may closely simulate perirenal abscess, and may be a cause of it. The tender- ness is, however, usually at a lower level and the swelling is in the iliac fossa. In less acute cases a cold abscess, originating in spinal caries, may resemble perinephritic abscess. The angular curve, the rigidity of the whole spine, the local tenderness on jarring the column or on pressing the spinous processes, and the slower course and smaller size of the abscess, will lead to a diagnosis. Treatment.—Before diagnosis is certain, the treatment (rest, diet, medicine) is that of any acute fever. In early cases where perirenal in- flammation is suspected, cupping, fomentations, and opium may aid in bringing about a resolu- tion, for it is imdoubted that a few cases do not go on to pus formation; but much time should not be wasted on these measures, and as soon as perinephritis is diagnosed, incision and evacua- tion of the abscess is the safest and most speedy means of treatment. It is well to bear in mind the following points in recommending operation :— 1. In acute cases septicaemia and pyaemia may occur. 2. In less acute, the abscess may burrow and rupture in various directions. Rupture occurs on an average in from three to five months (Lancereaux), and has a death-rate of 53 per cent (Rosenberger). 3. The majority of unoperated cases do not rupture, but die of exhaustion from hectic and waxy disease (Newman). 4. " Primary" cases are more favourable, mortality 16 per cent (Kiister), than " secondary " (to kidney disease), mortality 49 per cent (Kiister). 5. And lastly, when free incision is employed 9 4'4 per cent recover, irrespective of primary or secondary disease, while without operation only 13'6 per cent survive (Poland). Renal Fistula Etiology and Anatomy.—After wounds of the kidney urine may be discharged for some time, but the fistula is of short duration. If the calices or pelvis of the kidney be opened, and especially if suppuration be superadded, the discharge is more likely to be prolonged. Most renal fistulae either follow operations upon the kidney or occur spontaneously. 1. Fistula following Operation.—The fistula is usually tortuous, and lined with granulation tissue which projects at its orifice. Phosphatic deposit may take place on the walls, and urea and urinary salts are present in the discharge. After a time the urine may disappear from the discharge from destruction of the remaining kidney tissue. Obstinate Symptoms.-—The general health is often quite unaffected so long as the discharge is free, and after lasting for many months or years (sometimes seven years, Morris) the fistula sometimes closes, and the wound becomes sound and permanently healed. In other cases the discharge diminishes, but at the same time the improvement in the general health apparent after the original operation is not maintained, there is continuous pain in the renal region, tenderness on pressure, and a swelling is still felt there. The temperature is raised, and now and again a sudden rise and fall occurs and the strength fails. In other cases the fistula closes completely, the temperature suddenly rises, and there is pain and tenderness in the renal region. Sometimes the attack is accompanied by a rigor, and vomiting may occur. In a few days the skin becomes reddened and tender, the scar breaks down and the discharge recommences, but from time to time these attacks of reten-