83 JOINTS, DISEASES OE muscular atrophy, infantile paralysis, insular sclerosis, etc. In locomotor ataxia the occurrence of joint lesions was first described by Charcot, hence the popular term " Charcot's disease." They occur in from 5-10 per cent of the recorded cases. Although usually developing in the ataxic stage, one or more years after the initial spinal symptoms, they may appear before any other evidence of tabes. Their association with injury is generally accepted. The joints of the lower extremity are much more commonly affected, and the disease is bilateral in a considerable proportion of cases, e.g. both knees, both hips, etc. The disease may assume a mild form, in which the joint and its vicinity become swollen, either spontaneously or after some extra exertion or slight injury. The swelling is chiefly due to fluid within the joint, and the latter cracks or grates on movement. The affection may dis- appear under rest, or persist, or relapse, or merge gradually into the more severe form. In the severe type the onset of the disease may be extraordinarily rapid. Within a few days or weeks the entire joint may be dis- organised. An atrophic and a hypertrophic type may be distinguished according to whether the wearing away and disappearance of bone, or the extravagant new formation of bone, is the more prominent feature. Sometimes, and especially in the knee, the clinical features are those of an enormous hydrops, with fibrinous and other loose bodies and hypertrophied fringes, like an exaggeration of that met with in arthritis deformans, only there is usually great oedema of the periarticular tissues, the joint is wobbly or flail-like from the stretching and destruction of the controlling ligaments, and there is no sensation in the joint. Some- times, and especially in the shoulder, the wearing down and total disappearance of the ends of the bones is the prominent feature, this being also attended with flail-like movements and with coarse grating of the opposed surfaces. Dislocation is chiefly observed at the hip; it is rather a gross displacement, with exaggerated mobility, than an ordinary dislocation, for it is usually possible to draw the bones apart. An occasional and very striking feature is the extensive formation of new bone in the capsular ligament and surrounding muscles, resulting in the presence of large masses and plates which may add materially to the already existing deformity of the joint. In certain cases the enormous swelling of the joint and its rapid development may suggest the growth of a malignant tumour. The most useful factor in diagnosis is the entire absence of pain, tenderness, and common sensibility. The freedom with which a tabetic patient will allow his disorganised joint to be handled, moved, and the bones grated on each other, requires to be seen to be appreciated. In syringo-myelia ("gliomatous arthropathy") joint affections are more frequent (in 10 per cent of cases) than in tabes, and more often involve the upper extremities in correspondence with the seat of the lesion in the lower cervical and vipper dorsal segments of the chord. Ex- cept that the joint disease is rarely symmetrical, it closely resembles the arthropathy of tabes. The complete analgesia of the joint structures and of the overlying soft parts, is well illustrated by cases in which the joint has been painlessly excised without an anaesthetic, and by one case in which the patient himself was in the habit of evacuating the fluid from his elbow by means of a pair of scissors. The painless whitlows of the fingers known as "Morvan's disease" are similarly the result of the analgesia, for the patient neglects breaches of the skin surface which allow of the entrance of pyogenic infection. Suppuration, apart from superadded infection through a breach of the surface, does not occur in any of the forms of spinal arthropathy. Spontaneous fracture may occur as a com- plication, both in tabes and in syringo-myelia. The jn'ognosU is uncertain as to progress, and is unfavourable as regards treatment, for in the majority of cases it is at the most capable of retarding or arresting the progress of the disease. Treatment is usually directed towards sup- porting and protecting the joint by means of bandages, splints, and special apparatus. In the lower extremity the use of crutches may assist in taking the strain off the affected limb. When there is much distension of the joint, considerable relief may follow the evacuation of fluid. The best possible result being rigid ankylosis in a good position, it may be advisable to bring this about artificially by arthrodesis or excision where only one joint is affected, and where the cord lesion is sucli as will permit of the patient moving about. Although the victims of tabes are unfavourable subjects for operative interference on account of their liability to uncontrollable vomiting or diarrhoea, and to intercurrent complications, the wounds heal remarkably well. When the limb is quite useless, and there is danger from superadded septic infection, if one is to interfere at all, it should be by amputation. (3) In cerebral lesions attended with hemi- plegia (from haemorrhage, tumour, etc.) joint lesions are occasionally met with in the para- lysed limbs attended with evanescent pain, redness, and swelling. The secondary changes in joints which are the seat of paralytic con- tracture ai'e considered elsewhere. An intermittent neuropathic hydrops has been observed, especially in the knee, in cases of epilepsy, hysteria, general paralysis of the in- sane, etc., but it is of little clinical import- ance.