279 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—INDUCTION OF PREMATURE LABOUR compete with other hydrostatic dilators by which force may be directly applied in opening up the OS uteri. 1 Risks.—The special risks which attend the various methods of inducing premature labour have been mentioned above. Those which are incidental to the methods which are now general, or are likely to become so, are not serious, and they affect the child rather than the mother. They should, however, be remembered when choosing the method to be adopted in any case. The risks which attend the operation whatever method is employed, next demand consideration. The child may, of course, be lost if labour is induced too early or too late ; in the latter case the mother also is exposed to the risks of a severe instrumental labour. These accidents can only be obviated by careful calculation and measurements, and by frequent examinations made as the time for induction draws near. A lack of patience in waiting for complete dilata- tion of the soft parts is to blame for the death of many children, and, though obvious, it must be pointed out that for successful delivery by turning a roomy cervix is even more essential than for forceps delivery. For the mother, the main risk is that of septic infection ; for whatever be the method employed, repeated and prolonged vaginal and intra-uterine interference may prove to be necessary before delivery can be brought about. Though the danger of sepsis is indeed the only one which need be seriously considered when contemplating the induction of labour, it is so grave as to forbid the operation except when clearly indi- cated, and in circumstances when scrupulous cleanliness can be obtained. All fussy attempts to render the vigina aseptic are to be deprecated, and the use of strong antiseptic solutions should be avoided as tending to lower the resistance of the parts to the invasion of pathogenic or- ganisms. Vaginal douching should be limited strictly lest the natural secretions be too com- pletely removed. A mild antiseptic, such as lysol or creolin, should be employed rather than mercurial salts or carbolic acid. All in- struments used should be capable of sterilisa- tion by boiling, and should be boiled on every occasion before use. The personal cleanliness of the operator and attendants should be secured with the same care as in major surgical operations. Above all, it is necessary to avoid bruising, tearing, or crushing of the vulva, vagina, and uterus. " A light hand is the best antiseptic," and for this reason, whenever time permits, mild and gentle measures should be adopted in the first instance, and should be given a full trial before more violent and rapid methods are employed. It is essential that all 1 Electricity has often been suggested as a means of inducing labour ; but any current which is sufficiently strong to set up uterine contractions is so disagreeable to the patient, that this method is without practical value. fsecal accumulations be removed from the bowel before beginning induction, and that the rectum be fully emptied every day thereafter. Care of Child.—In arranging to induce labour, preparations for the reception of the child must not be forgotten. If possible, the services of a wet nurse should be secured for a short time, as the maternal supply of milk is usually some- what delayed, and often fails altogether. An incubator must also be provided in which the child can be kept for a few weeks, namely, until the natural term of pregnancy has expired. Good " thermostatic nurses" can now be ob- tained in which a temperature of from 85° to 90° F. can be maintained by means of a lamp or gas jet controlled by an automatic regulator. Failing this, a box with a false bottom may be constructed, the lid being of glass, with holes for ventilation. The child, wrapped in cotton wool, with a thermometer, is placed in the upper chamber, while the lower contains a number of hot-water bottles sufficient to raise the tempera- ture to a proper degree. When the thermometer falls, the bottle which has cooled most is with- drawn and replaced by a fresh hot one. The temperature is graduallj' lowered week by week. The child should be removed from the box only for washing and feeding. If not strong enough to suck, the infant should be fed with a tea- spoon, mother's milk being drawn off for the purpose when possible. Choice of Time and Method.—The cases in which labour may be induced with propriety fall, as above mentioned, into two classes, namely : (1) those in which the operation is done mainly in the interest of the child ; and (2) those in which it is undertaken chiefly for the sake of the mother. It is necessary to con- sider briefly the conditions under which labour should be induced, and the methods which are most appropriate in cases of these two kinds. In cases of moderate pelvic contraction seen early in pregnancy, we may be aware from ex- perience at previous confinements, or we may conclude from measurements, that a living child cannot be delivered by forceps or turning, while the pelvis is too large to justify Csesarean section. If the true conjugate be estimated at from 2| to 3^ inches (or 3| if the transverse diameter is small), induction is the proper treatment; for although some authorities prefer symphysiotomy at term to premature induction under these conditions, the cutting operation does not as yet yield results sufficiently good to justify its choice in cases which are seen early enough to permit of induction. When it is decided to induce labour pre- maturely, the time at which this can be done with the greatest advantage must be carefully determined. There is little chance of rearing a child born before the thirtieth week of gestation, and in the interest of the child induction should be delayed as long as possible. It must be