LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 194 piece of strong linen towelling is much superior to any of the varieties of shaped bands. A loaded rectum may seriously interfere with the progress of labour by offering an obstruction to the descent of the head. The method I have found which ensures the rectum being in a satisfactory condition during labour, is for the patient to take for the last week of pregnancy a sufficient dose of some mild purgative (e.g. liquorice powder) every night. Then, on the onset of labour, if the bowels have been opened within five hours, do nothing until the first stage has lasted abovit eight hours, then always clear out thoroughly with a soap, water, and glycerine enema. If there is any reason to doubt that the bowels have had the thorough pre- liminary clearing, give an enema on the onset of labour, and another enema before the commence- ment of the second stage. The bladder very rarely requires the use of the catheter during the first stage. But, if necessary, it must be used. As this stage will probably last from eight to twelve hours, the second indication, that of maintaining the general strength, may call for consideration. At the beginning of labour there is no reason why she should not have a full meal of plain food. After this the patient will not be at all inclined for anything beyond some hot drink—a cup of warm milk, coffee, tea, a cup of soup or thin gruel. The stimulating effect of the hot drink acts often by increasing the strength of the pain. This, of course, can be repeated at intervals. If the labour has been going on a very long time, and the pains are growing feeble, the question of giving an opiate has to be considered. On first seeing a patient at the commence- ment of labour a thorough careful abdominal examination should be made (as described vmder section Diagnosis, p. 169). This, how- ever, requires to be supplemented by a vaginal examination at the commencement of labour; it is well to repeat the examination after rupture of membranes, in case the rush of liquor amnii has caused the prolapse of the cord or of an arm. Thorough antiseptic precaution must be taken regarding the cleanli- ness of the external genital organs and the operator's fingers, hand, and forearm. All instrumental and digital interference, such as early application of forceps, digital dilatation of the cervix, and unnecessary vaginal douching, are much to be deprecated. Management of Second Stage This, the stage of expulsion of the foetus, extends from the time of complete dilatation of the cervix to the delivery of the child. Its duration is variable; in primiparte it may last for three to four hours, while in multiparse the average time is from one to two hours. It occasionally occurs that the delivery is exceed- ingly rapid, and the child is born after a very few pains. Such a rapid second stage is, however, not desirable, as it predisposes to post-partum hsemorrhage, and is very apt to be accompanied by laceration of the vagina and perineum. It may also be the cause of imperfect involution of the uterus. The chief phenomena are the regular and intermittent uterine contractio7is aided by the voluntary contractions of the abdominal muscles. The sequence of events is : (1) the rupture of the membranes, brought about by the removal of the support from the cervix; (2) the gradual expulsion of the child into the vagina; (3) the pressure of the head on the perineum, followed by its birth. The lines of treatment are now as follows :— After complete dilatation of the os the mem branes have served their function, and if they have not ruptured spontaneously, it is best to do so artificially, as their presence now retards the advance of the child's head. Artificial mpture is best performed during a pain by scratching through the thin membranes with the nail. If they are too tough for this, the stilette of a catheter may be used under the necessary antiseptic precautions. It is difficult to render a hair-pin aseptic, and therefore it should not be employed. After rupture and the partial escape of the waters, the head, being no longer kept back by the fluid, comes well down upon the cervix. The uterus, with the escape of the liquor amnii, is able to contract and retract on to the body of the foetus, and this acts as a stimulus to the pains, which have now passed from dilating pains to expulsive pains. There is frequently a short cessation from pains immediately after the rupture, while the uterus is retracting on the child. During the early part of the second stage the patient should lie down; she can assume any position that she cares to, except when an examination is made, when she should lie on the left side with the hips down well to the edge of the bed. Some arrangement must be made to help her in her bearing-down efforts. A board placed at the end of the bed against which the patient can place her feet flat, and a roller towel fastened to the foot-rail for her to pull upon, will be found of great advantage. She should be instructed that when the pain comes on to hold her breath, press with her feet, and while pulling on the towel to " bear down " with all her strength. By these means the pelvis and thorax are fixed, and thus the full action of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles is obtained. Chloroform may now be given just when a pain is commencing. If the anterior lip of the cervix is pushed in front of the head it should be pushed up during a pain as soon as it is diagnosed, as its presence is a delay to labour ; the bruised, congested part