498 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES of the liver the patient complains of lassitude, loss of appetite, abdominal fulness, frontal headache, and inclination to lie down and sleep during the day, which is surely followed by sleepless nights or unrefreshing sleep. The tongue is furred, and the patient complains of a bad taste in the mouth. There may be nausea, retching, and vomiting at times of bilious matters; the feeling of sinking in the epigastrium is probably caused by an accom- panying gastric catarrh; there may be an intestinal flux with bilious, acrid, and scalding stools, or the motion may be pale; constipation may succeed diarrhoea, or the constipated habit may persist from the first. Itching of the anus, especially if piles are present, and a moisture around the anus cause considerable annoyance; internal piles, if present, may enlarge and bleed. Jaundice to some extent is usual with yellow conjunctivfe, bile-colouring matter in the urine, and a greenish-yellow tinge of the skin. The urine tends to scantiness, and is dark in colour and loaded with urates. On percussion and palpation discomfort is elicited over the region of the liver, but there is seldom actual pain. In the right shoulder a " rheumatic" feeling may exist, and a definite tender spot on the posterior border of the scapula is not uncommon. The area of the liver dulness may be slightly increased, but is never markedly so unless the patient has been the subject of frequently re- curring attacks of congestion. Lying on the left side is attended by discomfort and is un- consciously avoided. The patient, especially if the hypergemia is alcoholic in origin, not in- frequently states that " he feels the liver jump"; this peculiar symptom would appear to be caused by the descent of the diaphragm more sharply than usual on the tightly-dis- tended liver capsule. The breathing is mostly thoracic and always shallow, and a " stomach " cough may occur spasmodically, especially on getting out of bed. Exercise is attended by marked shortness of breath, palpitation, and either increased pallor or purplish congestion of the face. Elevation of temperature is the exception, and when it does occur it seldom exceeds 100° F. Tropical Liver.—Signs and Symptoms.—In the more common hypergemia met with in persons who have resided in the Tropics, most of the general signs and symptoms above recounted are met with; but, in addition, there are a few that are characteristic of the condition. A history of malaria, of diarrhoea or dysentery, of long-continued dyspepsia, is usually present. Enlargement of the spleen is almost a constant accompaniment of the hepatic trouble. Ansemia and the peculiar skin tint, " the tropical mask," are always signs of long-continued liver con- gestion in the Tropics. Weakness, inability to take exercise, giddiness, and that condition of nervous irritability best expressed in the word " P^PPSi'y" ^re very general concomitants. Oxalates may appear in the urine, which is pale in colour, of low specific gravity and containing urea in excess, and may alternate with dark- coloured, bile-stained urine containing urates. The action of the bowels is irregular ; the stools may be frequent and inconstant as to the times they are passed, or constipation may prevail. Bile is usually absent from the stools, but at intervals it comes down in what seems an im- perfect form, judging by the foul odour it engenders, and its irregular distribution in the faeces. The liver may be enlarged without much tenderness, or it may be small and shrunken, scarcely reaching the costal cartilages. Diagnosis.—The "biliousness" associated with congested liver serves to direct attention to the source of the ailment. The increased size of the organ in all directions; the absence of, or but occasional evelation of, temperature; the local fulness, discomfort, or actual pain; the history of the case, especially as it relates to alcohol; the slight jaundice ; and the general disturbance of the whole length of the alimen- tary tract, are usually sufficient to establish a correct diagnosis. Prognosis.—An occasional congestion of the liver from indiscretion in diet, or from catching cold, is a condition which usually speedily yields to rational treatment. When the hyper- semia is due to alcohol, and recurs frequently and at short intervals, a more serious prognosis must be given unless alcohol is completely stopped. The recurrences betoken permanent changes in the connective tissue of the liver made especially manifest during subacute con- gestions of the organ. B. Passive Congestion. — Under this head- ing several conditions differing in extent, in etiology, and in results, may be differentiated. The most marked of these are congestions arising from mechanical, from physiological, and from neurotic causes. (1) Mechanical obstruction, or congestion, due to venous engorgement from obstruction, is a hepatic condition associated with impeded circulation of blood in the thorax. Cardiac disease, most frequently mitral regurgitation, is the genesis of the condition; but mitral stenosis, aortic obstruction or stenosis, emphy- sema, narrowing of the channel of blood-vessels by mediastinal tumours or by aneurysm, may each and all contribute. Displacement of the heart by fluid accumulations in the right or left pleura may cause the inferior vena cava to be so bent from its course that its lumen is en- croached upon and its calibre diminished. In consequence, the exit of blood from the inferior vena cava is interfered with, and the venous return from the body everywhere below the diaphragm is hampered. Oedema of the lower extremities, piles, haemorrhage from the bowel, ascites, fulness and hypertrophy of the liver and