260 LABOUR, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE latter may be injected. If this still fails to check the bleeding, or if the placenta could not be expressed at the start— (3) Place the patient in a cross-bed position, wash her externally, and douche the vagina with a solution of creolin (gss to a gallon), at a temperature of llC' to 120° F., having first passed a catheter, if this has not been done already. If the placenta is still in the uterus, remove it manually. The removal of a placenta is a comparatively simple operation as far as the operator is concerned, but it is by no means as straightforward for the patient. In the first place, it is rarely if ever possible to give an anaesthetic, and consequently the operation is attended with a considerable amount of pain. In the next place, it is an operation during the performance of which it is specially easy to inoculate the patient with septic infection, owing to the intimate relationship of the fingers to the uterine sinuses, while detaching the placenta. It is performed as follows :—The preliminary steps as described above having been carried out, the hand is introduced into the uterus, taking care to keep outside the membranes, at the same time applying firm counter-pressure over the fundus with the other hand. Feel for the edge of the placenta, and then with a to-and-fro sawing motion of the fingers separate it from the uterine wall, gradually working up from below. Endeavour if possible to detach it in one piece, and then, grasping it in the hand passed above it, draw it out. Then douche out the uterus thoroughly, and administer ergot as directed above. If the placenta has been previously removed by expression, and the vaginal douche fails to check the haemorrhage, a hot uterine douche is given, creolin solution being used as before. If the bleeding still continues— (4) Compress the fundus firmly between the fingers of one hand in the anterior fornix and the other hand upon the abdominal wall, thus squeezing out any clots that may be retained, and then repeat the intra-uterine douche. (5) Introduce the hand into the uterus and remove any fragments of placenta or of membranes, and all clots. Then repeat the intra-uterine douche. (6) In those cases in which haimorrhage resists the above treatment, there are still two final measures before us from which a choice can be made. These are, either to plug the utero-vaginal canal with iodoform gauze, or to inject perchloride of iron into the uterine cavity. Of the two, the former is preferable, as will be seen later. The uterus is plugged with iodoform gauze in the following manner :—Place the patient in the cross-bed position, if she is not already in it, and seize the anterior lip of the cervix with an American forceps and the posterior lip with another. If a short posterior speculum is to hand it may be introduced, and will facilitate the proceeding ; it is not, however, absolutely necessary. Then pass the end of a long strip of iodoform gauze, about 2 inches in width, up to the fundus, by means of a special plugging forceps or with the end of the Bozemann's catheter. The remainder of the strip is pushed up piece by piece until it is finished. A fresh strip is then knotted on to the former, and introduced in a similar manner. As soon as the uterus is full the forceps are removed, and the vagina also plugged. As a rule, three to four strips of gauze 6 yards long and about 2 inches wide are required. It must be remembered that it is not the large cavity of a dilated uterus which we have to plug, but rather the com- paratively small cavity of a contracting one, because on the introduction of a small piece of gauze the hitherto flaccid uterus quickly con- tracts upon the foreign body. Finally, a. tight abdominal binder is applied in order to com- press the uterus from above, and more ergot may be given. The gauze must be removed in from twelve to twenty-four hours, and if there is any rise of temperature, a uterine douche administered. The use of perchloride of ii'on was introduced by Barnes. He recommended that a few ounces of Liq. ferri perchlor. (B.P.) be injected into the uterine cavity from which all clots have been removed. Another and perhaps easier method of applying the iron is to add Liq. ferri perchlor. fort. (B.P.) to warm water until a light sherry- coloured fluid is produced. The uterus is douched out with this and then with ordinary creolin solution. Barnes claims that iron acts in the following manner :— (a) It coagulates the blood in the mouths of the vessels. (6) It constringes the tissues round the mouths of the vessels, and so compresses the latter. (c) It provokes some contraction of the muscular wall of the uterus. The great advantage of iodoform gauze over iron is that it has no tendency to interfere with the nutrition of the superficial portions of the uterine wall. Iron, on the other hand, causes a very considerable superficial necrosis, and, if saprophytic germs gain entrance to this dead tissue, they have a very suitable pabulum on which to live. Again, iodoform gauze is as certain as anything can be in its action, and even if the haemorrhage is coming from a large vessel which has been torn across owing to a laceration of the uterus, it will in all probability prevent it from bleeding. Iron may and sometimes does fail, and if it does it is impossible to resort to plugging as, owing to the manner in which the tissues have become constringed, gauze could not be introduced. If iron is used, the uterus must be douched out next day, and every subsequent day if there is any rise of temperature.