LACRIMAL APPARATUS, DISEASES OF 312 Great patience both on the part of the patient and the surgeons is called for. If a small probe can be passed, we may hope for amelioration by the use of gradual dilatation; but if the stricture is osseous in nature, it is probably incurable. The use of a dental drill has been recommended in such cases. In phlegmon of the sac we miist first make a deep vertical incision over the sac, and, after escape of the pus, lightly pack the cavity with iodoform gauze, which is renewed each day till the swelling of the tissues has been dispersed, when Bowman's operation is then done. The opening in the skin will gradually close if probes are passed by the slit canaliculus. In disease of the bone the pus forms burrows in various directions, and these must be freely laid open from end to end and well scraped with a sharp spoon. Injection of iodoform emulsion into the sac may also be done. In strumous and syphilitic cases the appropriate constitutional treatment must not be neglected. In very obstinate cases, where, in spite of probing, the discharge remains purulent and very profuse, injections by means of a hollow perforated probe and syphon arrangement is good practice. For this purpose we may use 0"6 per cent sulphate of zinc, 1 per cent acetate of lead, 0'02 per cent corrosive sublimate, 2 to 5 per cent nitrate of silver, or, best of all, 10 per cent protargol. If this does not suffice to dry up the discharge, Fick recommends the injec- tion into the sac of a few drops of a 10 per cent solution of chloride of zinc, first protecting the cornea by a thick layer of vaseline. Severe re- action takes place, but a good result is obtained. In cases of chronic distension of the sac, and in cases of incurable stricture, the best thing to do is probably to destroy the sac. This operation, I am informed by my colleague Dr. Little, used to be frequently done by Mr. T. Windsor and himself with good and permanent results, and why we should have discarded it during the last twenty-five years he cannot say. An incision was made com- mencing below the tendo-oculi at about 4 mm. from the inner commissure. To lay open the whole length of the sac, as is necessary, we prolong the incision upwards to include the fundus. The bleeding was stopped and the cavity stuff'ed daily for a few days, when a strong paste containing 20 per cent zinc chloride was introduced on strips of lint, the final result being a firm and by no means un- sightly scar. Excision of the sac is a very difficult operation, and is more often commenced than completed, resolving itself into a rather haphazard cutting and scraping away of the tissues. Lacrimation or Lachrymation. —A profuse flow of tears. See Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases op. Lacs.—The obstetrical fillet, formerly much used in the management of delayed labour cases (Fr. lacs, a string). Lactag'Ol.—The powdered extract of the seed of the cotton plant. It has been used to increase the milk secretion in nursing women, for it is said to contain the galactagogue prin- ciple of the plant; it is insoluble in water. Dose—1 to 2 oz. daily. Lactalbumin.—One of the proteids of milk, the other being casein. Lactams.—Lactones are produced from certain hydroxyacids by loss of water {e.g. san- tonin); "aromatic compounds containing NHg in the ortho position, and losing water by the oxidation and removal of one or two atoms of that hydrogen, furnish bodies which may be dis- tinguished as lactams and lactims " (Attjield and Dobbin). Lactase. — A zymin splitting up milk- sugar into glucose and galactose, and found in the intestine of animals taking milk. Lactate.—A salt of lactic acid. Lactation. See Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Occlusion of Cerebral Vessels, Arterial Occlusion, Causes); Infant Feeding ; Insanity, Etiology of {Direct Causes, Lacta- tion) ; Lymphatic System {Enlargement of Axillary Glands); Milk ; Puerperium, Physio- logy {Lactation); Puerperium, Pathology {Con- ditions interfering with SucMing); Typhoid Fever {Association with other Conditions, Lacta- tion) ; Uterus, Inflammations of {Superinvolu- tion. Causes). Lactational insanity. See Puer- perium, Pathology {Insanity of Lactation). LactealS.—As a noun the lacteals are the chyliferous vessels; as an adjective lacteal simply means milky or consisting of milk (the lacteal secretion is milk). See Ascites {Char- acters of Fluid, Chylous Fluid); Infant Feed- ing ; etc. Lactic Acid. — The acid (hydroxypro- pionic) which is formed when milk turns sour (CgHgOj), by the conversion of milk-sugar (lactose) under the influence of the bacillus acidi lactici; it has been used as a solvent for diphtheritic false membranes and in tuber- culous disease of the larynx, and somewhat ex- tensively in the form of lactophosphates. See also Calcium and its Salts ; Digestion and Metabolism {Gastric Contents); Micro-Organ- ISMS {Lactic Fermentation); Rickets {Etiology and Pathology); Teeth {Dental Caries, Lactic Acid in Saliva). Lactifug^e.—A drug stopping or diminish- ing the secretion of milk; an antigalactagogue.