255 LABOUR, RETENTION OF PLACENTA Method of Removing a Placenta retained IX the Uterus.—When the fingers must, for any reason, be passed into the parturient uterus, Fig. 56.—DU, adherent decidua; Oi, os internum; Oe, os ex- ternum; PI, placenta; Ca, blood-clot; JI, M, foetal mem- branes detached. the strictest antiseptic precautions are required ; it is unnecessary to enumerate them here; the reader will find them set forth in the section on the management of labour. In removing an un- detached placenta, the natural process should, as far as possible, be closely followed—i.e. first, the placenta should be completely detached from the uterine wall; and second, it should be expressed or withdrawn fronf the body. Unless detachment is completed before the removal of the organ is begun, fragments or larger portions of placental tissue will remain attached, and the complete evacuation of the uterus thus rendered more difficult. The entire hand having been passed into the vagina under anaesthesia, the fingers first seek the lower edge of the placenta, and if no abnor- mality exists in the placental attachments, these are very readily torn through by sweeping the finger between the placenta and the uterine wall. One hand upon the uterus steadies it while the fingers gradually pass upwards to the fundus or across it, where the opposite placental edge is reached. Outlying lateral portions have then to be dealt with, and not until it is clear that the placenta lies quite free in the uterine cavity shoiild its removal be commenced. It may then be withdrawn by the fingers into the vagina, or preferably the hand may be removed and the placenta delivered by expression. It is not necessary, in most cases, to detach the mem- branes with the fingers ; they are peeled off when the placenta passes into the vagina, just as in the natural process of delivery of the afterbirth. Difficulty in detaching the placenta may arise from morbid adhesions at the placental site, or from constriction of the lower part of the uterine cavity due to muscular spasm or to an encroaching iibroid tumour. Morbid adhesions can generally be broken through with the aid of the finger-nail, but much time and patience may be required for the task. Cutting instru- ments, such as scissors or the curette, should not be employed; it is better to leave small portions of placental tissue in the uterus than to run the risk of injuring the uterine wall. Adherent membrane may be even more trouble- some than adherent placenta, but, fortunately, there is less risk in leaving it. Constrictions often cause very great difficulty, as it is unsafe to use any form of mechanical dilator. A good deal of bleeding always attends the artificial separation of the placenta, because re- traction is impeded by the fact that the fingers Fig. 57.—Method of detachment. as well as the whole placenta are in the uterine cavity during the process. When the cavity is completely evacuated retraction usually follows, and the bleeding then ceases. A hot antiseptic intra-uterine douche should always be given afterwards, and massage practised through the abdominal wall, till all relaxation of the uterus has been overcome.