LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM 187 operator has it in his hands to place the occiput in which side he prefers. For instance, if the right side of the pelvis is the larger, he will bring down the right leg of the child, which, coming to the front, causes the occiput to come down into the right side of the brim. Knee P^'esentations.—The knee is recognised by its size and by the movable patella. It is liable to be confused with the shoulder only, and an abdominal examination will prevent this mistake being made. Moulding of the Head in the Podalic Lies.— The head passes through the pelvis flexed, that is, as has been already explained, with its longest diameter as nearly as possible in coinci- dence with the axis of the parturient canal. In consequence, the diameters shortened are almost the same as those in vertex presentations with the occiput forwards. There is the difference, however, that the vault of the skull is not pressed in as it is in the head-first cases, where it has to overcome the resistance of the pelvic floor, and so the suboccipito-frontal and suboccipito-bregmatic diameters are not so much reduced. There is also, perhaps, slightly less complete flexion in breech cases. The fronto- occipital diameter is shortened considerably, and the head is thus rendered slightly dome-shaped. If the child is born alive, however, there can be but little moulding; for the head is not long in the pelvis, and remains for a still shorter time on the perineum. General Character of Labour.—The mother's safety is not endangered in these cases imless manipulations are necessary. The child, how- ever, is in some danger if delivery of the head does not take place speedily after the trunk is born. For the placental site is contracted, and the supply of oxygenated blood to the child cut off"; there is much risk of compression of the cord between the head and the mother's pelvis ; and the stimulus of cold air on the surface of the child's trunk is very liable to cause in- spiratory efforts while the mouth and nose are lying in the vagina, and mucus, liquor amnii, and blood will in that case be sucked into the lungs. In unreduced sacro-posterior positions the delay and the risk are greater. The child's sterno-mastoid muscle is occasion- ally torn, and a hfematoma produced. This is sometimes followed by wry-neck. (For Management, see p. 200.) Transverse Lies In the case of a transverse lie the long axis of the child is at nearly right angles with that of its mother. In practically all examples of this abnormal lie the shoulder is the presenting part, and the head lies at a considerably lower level than the breech. Causation.—A transverse lie has been shown, in discussing the mode of production of the normal lies, to be, under ordinary circumstances, a condition of luistable equilibrium for the child; and there must, therefore, be either a cause continually in action to keep the foetus in this relation to the long axis of the mother's uterus, or an absence of most or all of those forces which tend to place the child in the axis of the uterus. Such conditions are found to be — Contracted Pelvis.—This caiise acts through the increased uterine obliquity usual in con- tracted pelvis, and by the head being prevented from entering the brim. Prematurity.—There is disproportion between the child and the uterus, and the lie is in- different (see p. 174). Death (with, possibly, decomposition) of the Foetus.—There is no muscular tone, and the compact ovoid shape of the foetus in utero is not preserved. Twin Pregnancy.—The shape of the combined ovoid is irregular. Placenta Prsevia.—The lower uterine segment is filled up and the long diameter of the uterus shortened. Hydramnios.—The same reason holds here as in prematurity. Tumours in the pelvis, or fibroids in the uterine wall, may displace one of the poles of the foetus. Positions.—The child may have its back anterior or posterior ; and in either case its head may be to the right or left. Owing to the dextro-rotation of the uterus the child will not lie in the transverse diameter of the brim, but rather parallel to one of the oblique diameters. The back is most commonly directed forwards for the same reason as in all lies ; and owing to the dextro-rotation of the uterus the head is usually in the left iliac fossa, since this is the lowest part of the uterine cavity. Diagnosis.—In all cases where there is no tumour complicating the case the diagnosis can be made hy the cJxlomen. The shape of the uterus is characteristically altered, for its long diameter is transverse instead of vertical. The head is felt in one iliac fossa. The breech is higher than the head, and is about half-way up to the fundus. The lie of the child can usually be quite well made out whether the uterus is contracted or relaxed. Per vaginam, there will early in labour probably be no presenting part to be made out. Later on the arm frequently prolapses, and in any case the shoulder may be reached when it has been forced down on the brim. If there is any doubt at first, after an abdominal examination has been made an anjesthetic should be given, and the pelvis and abdomen thoroughly explored. If the membranes are unruptured when the examination is made, the characteristic finger- like shape of the bag will be recognised. Care must be taken not to rupture them during an examination.