366 LARYNX, NEUROSES OF Paralysis of the Muscle supplied by the Superior Laryngeal Nerve.—The only muscle supplied by the superior laryngeal nerve is the crico-thyroid, the action of which is to assist in rendering tense the corresponding vocal cord. Paralysis of this muscle alone is rare; but it obviously must occur in association with the antesthesia of the larynx resulting from section of the superior laryngeal nerve, and has also been described as resulting from cold, diph- theria, pressure of growths, etc. When the crico-thyroid muscle is paralysed, the vocal cord presents a wavy outline, bulges up in the centre in forced expiration, and is depressed on inspiration, these phenomena being due to the defective tension of the cord. The treatment is essentially the same as for laryngeal anaesthesia when that is present, and which is due to implication of this nerve. For weakness or paralysis of the muscle, external faradisation is sometimes called for. Paralysis op the Muscles supplied by the Recurrent Laryngeal Nerves. — As stated above in progressive organic lesions involving the motor nerves of the larynx, the muscles succumb in the following order—abductors of the cords, internal tensors, adductors; and it will be convenient to follow the sequence in the description of the various forms of paralysis of the recurrent nerve fibres. Abductor or Posticus Paralysis.—Unilateral Posticus Paralysis.—The vocal cords are ab- ducted by the crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle on either side, conveniently spoken of as the posticus muscle, paralysis of which results in the vocal cord being maintained in the median line owing to the normal tonus of the adductor muscle not being counterbalanced, so that even on deep inspiration the affected muscle per- sistently remains in the middle line, i.e. the phonatory position. As speech is not interfered with, and the normal abduction of the unaffected cord leaves sufficient space for quiet respiration, there are no symptoms to direct attention to the larynx, and therefore the condition is frequently overlooked. The left cord is most frequently affected, and is generally the result of pressure on the left recurrent nerve by an aneurysm of the aortic arch. Foreign bodies in the oesophagus, cancer of the oesophagus, mediastinal growths, goitre, and on the right side tubercular disease at the apex of the lung, or aneurysm of the innominate artery, are all possible causes. Bilateral Posticus Paralysis. — When both cords are affected they remain in the median line, the glottic aperture being reduced to an extremely narrow aperture. Respiration, of course, is greatly embarrassed, and during attacks of dyspnoea the vocal cords are liable to be drawn together by the violent inspiratory effects, so that very little air can enter the chest, and urgent or fatal asphyxia may at any time arise. The voice is unaltered, and it may be difficult for the patient to realise that he is the subject of a very dangerous form of vocal cord paralysis. Fortunately, it is rarely that both cords are simultaneously affected with an ex- treme degree of posticus paralysis, so that with few exceptions the posticus paralysis is incom- plete, or the implication of the recurrent nerve has gone beyond posticus paralysis, and has resulted in total paralysis. The chief causes of bilateral paralysis of the abductors are nuclear degeneration in the bulb due to syphilis, diph- theria, or tabes dorsalis, or bilateral enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland. Occasionally aortic aneurysm involves both recurrent nerves. Paralysis of the Internal Tensors of the Vocal Cords. — The action of the thyro-ary- tenoideus internus muscle is to make tense and straight the free margins of the cord during phonation, coughing, etc., paralysis of the muscle, causing the edge of the cord to be slack and concave in outline, so that the margins of the two cords are imperfectly approximated, and leave an elliptical space during attempted phonation. The voice is consequently weak, husky, or altogether lost, but respiration is not interfered with. This is the commonest form of myopathic laryngeal paralysis, and generally results from catarrhal laryngeal conditions, or from over- straining of the voice — except when it is associated with abductor paralysis, and is but one of the series of laryngeal muscles involved in lesions which progress to complete vocal cord paralysis. Paralysis of the Adductors of the Vocal Cord.—The vocal cords are adducted by the crico-arytenoidei laterales muscles, which cause them to meet in the median line; though for adduction of the cords to be complete, the arytenoid cartilages must be simultaneously approximated by the arytenoideus and thyro- arytenoidei externi muscles. Unilateral paralysis of the adductors alone is extremely rare. It would resemble in appearance a complete paralysis of one vocal cord, but might be distinguished by observing the larynx, not only during phonation and quiet respiration, but also during deep inspira- tion, when, if the adductor was paretic only, further abduction would take place. In complete adductor paralysis the vocal cord would be completely abducted, and show a concave margin. Bilateral Adductor Paralysis.—This form of paralysis is hardly ever complete. The paretic adductors during voluntary phonation are able to approximate the vocal cords in some measure, but not sufficiently to make them meet, consequently the patient is aphonic, though abduction, and, therefore, respiration, is not interfered with. The causes are nearly always cortical and