IRIS AND CILIARY BODY 42 form, with the formation of hypopyon. Sup- purative iritis is seldom confined to the tissues of the iris, but is usually either derived from, or extends to, the surrounding tissues. Under this heading may be included sympathetic iritis; this will be described under sympathetic ophthalmitis. The treatment of suppurative traumatic iritis is similar to that of suppurative choroiditis. (3) Idiopathic iritis.—Many cases of iritis seem to have no definite cause, either from injury or from constitutional taint. They apparently come on spontaneously, and resemble in every respect an acute plastic iritis or a more chronic irido-cyclitis. (4) Secondary iritis is uncommon. The primary cause is usually a suppurative keratitis; more rarely it follows choroiditis. Pathology of Iritis and Cyclitis.—In plastic iritis there is hypersemia of the vessels with small-celled infiltration of the iridic stroma. Exudation follows, consisting of fibrin, with a varying number of leucocytes. This exudation may become completely absorbed, or it may be organised into connective tissue, synechijB being the result. A similar set of changes takes place in cyclitis, but added to them we have keratitis punctata. This condition is found microscopically to be due to small aggregations of round cells cemented together with fibrin, containing a small amount of pigment. They are not formed by any inflammatory condition of the cornea, but result from an inflamed ciliary body, being carried by the lymph stream through the pupil to the back of the lower part of the cornea, where they are usually arranged in the form of a triangle, with the apex at the centre of the pupil. The complications and sequelfe of iritis are few, though important. Si/nechice, anterior and posterior, may occur. The former are almost invariably the result of a perforating wound or of an ulcer of the cornea; rarely they are due to tuberculous or gummatous inflammation of the anterior surface of the iris. The latter may arise from not dilating the pupil early in the attack; exclusion and occlusion are the more serious forms. As a result of annular posterior synechia, atrophy of the iris occurs, with a bulging forwards of the ciliary portion, a con- dition known as iris bom//'. This closes the iridic angle, and secondary glaucoma may l)e set up. Another sequela is opacity of the lens, residting from deficient nutrition ; this may occur with or without phthisis bulhi, which is found as a secjuela of suppurative iritis follow- ing perforation, and in some cases of irido- cyclitis, where there has been much exudation into the posterior chamber and upon the pos- terior surface of the lens. Lastly, especially in rheumatic iritis, the inflannnation may recur, each attack leading to fresh adhesions. Diagnosis of Iritis.—The more acute form of conjunctivitis may be mistaken for an early attack of iritis. Special attention should be paid to the colour of the iris, its activity, and the condition of the pupil. Glaucoma and iritis have certain signs in common, namely, con- jimctival and circumcorneal injection, a muddy appearance of the iris, and a fixed pupil. The history of onset must be carefully investigated ; in glaucoma it is much more sudden, and is preceded by characteristic premonitory signs, such as coloured halos seen round artificial lights. The cornea is steamy and anaesthetic in glaucoma ; the pupil is dilated rather than contracted; the anterior chamber is shallow, and there is increased intraocular tension. The diagnosis between iritis alone and iritis accom- panied by cyclitis has already been discussed. The prognosis of iritis, if the disease is seen early and judiciously treated, is, in the majority of cases, good, especially if it is syphilitic in origin. Rheumatic iritis is less amenable to treatment, and more liable to recur. If the pupil responds to atropine completely, a good prognosis may be made. On the other hand, the more extensive the synechije, especially if there is exclusion or occlusion of the pupil, the graver the condition, secondary glaucoma being very liable to be set up. Occlusion of the pupil results in loss of all useful vision save perception of light. Operative measures in such cases are alone attended with any success; the result may be very decided, but if the condition has existed for years, much improvement cannot be expected. Should the tension be subnormal, operative treatment is contraindicated. The more chronic the iritis, the more likely are atrophic changes in the eyeball to occur, and so the prognosis is bad. Sympathetic irido-cyclitis and tuberculous iritis are most serious ; in the former the restoration of much sight cannot be hoped for, and in the latter enucleation is imperative. Suppurative iritis rarely exists as a local aftection, except in septic infection following injury or operation, and consequently the prognosis is unfavourable. The treatmeiit of iritis and cyclitis may be considered under four headings—(1) local : (2) symptomatic; (3) constitutional; and (4) the treatment of complications and sequelfe. (1) Local treatntent is of paramount im- portance, and consists in the dilatation of the pupil, which should be effected innnediately the condition is recognised. The best mydriatic is undoubtedly atropine sulphate; it is a vaso- constrictor, thus diminishing the liyperiemia and the exudation; it paralyses the ciliary muscle and the sphincter pupillfe, thus keeping the iris and ciliary body at rest; it prevents the formation of synechia) and breaks down recent adhesions ; and it is an anodyne. At the outset atropine should be used constantly, especially if any synechia) already exist, when it should be pushed, 0"5, 0'75, or even 1 per cent solutions