454 LIVER, DISEASES OF deed, is the most frequent associated condition of pylethrombosis, but it is not a common occurrence. Communications between the Portal System and the General Systemic Veins.—The anasto- moses which normally exist between the radicles of the portal vein and the adjacent systemic veins become dilated and increased in extent in common cirrhosis. The portal circulation is thus short-circuited, and the engorgement re- lieved by the passage of some of the blood into the inferior or superior vena cava without traversing the liver. The development of this collateral circulation relieves portal congestion, and is thought to be compensatory. These communications are— 1. A general anastomosis between the veins of the peritoneum and those of the abdominal walls, such as the lumbar and renal. These anastomoses are especially well marked where the duodenum and colon are bound down to the abdominal wall and are only partially covered by peritoneum. This subperitoneal anastomosis, described by Retzius, gives rise to marked in- jection of the peritoneum, which is especially noticeable during life, as seen in laparotomies on cases of cirrhosis. 2. Those around or in connection with the liver. The phrenic and intercostal veins on the diaphragm communicate between the layers of the coronary ligament with the veins in the liver; this is not of much utility. Dendritic venous markings on the skin along the line of attachment of the diaphragm occur in conditions like emphysema, and have no constant relation to cirrhosis. In the falciform ligament the parumbilical veins of Sappey put the portal vein into communication with the veins of the anterior abdominal wall. A large vein may thus run up in the falciform ligament which imitates the anterior epigastric vein of the frog. This anastomosis may show itself as a " caput medusae," or number of dilated veins around the umbilicus. This anastomosis must be dis- tinguished from the more marked "caput medusae " which results from obstruction to the passage of blood along the inferior vena cava; in the latter the dilated epigastric and mammary veins avoid and do not centre around the umbilicus. In cases of extensive ascites, both collateral circulatory channels may be de- veloped. An epigastric venous hum, audible with the stethoscope, has been referred to the collateral circulation in the falciform ligament. 3. Between the oesophageal veins, discharging into the azygos veins and so into the superior vena cava on the one hand, and the gastric veins on the other hand. These veins may be- come varicose (oesophageal piles), and as the result of chi-onic inflammation the mucous membrane may become first adherent and then ulcerated. Profuse and even fatal heematemesis may thus be induced. In 80 per cent of the cases of fatal gastro-intestinal hgemorrhage these oesophageal varices are present. Varicose gastric veins, especially around the cardiac orifice, are present in a small proportion of cases. 4. Between the superior heemorrhoidal veins, tributaries of the inferior mesenteric vein, and the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal veins which open into the internal iliac veins. Dila- tation and varicosity of these veins lead to piles. It is probable that cirrhosis is not so important a cause of piles as has sometimes been stated, and at any rate takes a very subordinate position in this respect to constipation. This collateral circulation is regarded as compensatory ; but it often fails in this object, as shown by its presence in fatal cases, while it is sometimes absent in cases where latent cir- rhosis is found in persons dying from other causes. Its good effects have been imitated in the recent treatment of cirrhosis by the pro- duction of artificial adhesions. If carried to its logical conclusion this measure would result in short-circuiting the portal circulation as in Eck's fistula, or the union of the portal vein with the inferior vena cava, an experiment that induces a ursemic tendency in dogs. It is probable that the good effects of the operation are not due to relieving portal congestion alone, but to improve nutrition of the liver, promoting hyperplasia of its cells. The Spleen.—Enlargement of the spleen is an important and very frequent feature of cir- rhosis ; it is present in 80 per cent of the cases. It does not, however, appear to be enlarged in cases where cirrhosis, though present, is latent. It is enlarged early in the course of the disease, and may diminish in size as the result of hfemor- rhage, severe diarrhoea, or ascites. The enlarge- ment does not bear any relation to the size of the liver in ordinary cirrhosis, though in biliary cirrhosis there is a certain relation between the large liver and the spleen. The splenic enlargement was formerly thought to be mechanical, and due to congestion depend- ing on portal obstruction; that this is not the exclusive factor is shown by the following facts:— (i.) That the enlargement is an early sign before evidence of portal obstruction has be- come apparent. (ii.) That in biliary cirrhosis, where portal obstruction is slight or at any rate much less marked than in common cirrhosis, the splenic enlargement is much more marked. (iii.) That the average weight of the spleen in 56 cases of morbus cordis, uncomplicated by any febrile or toxic process, was 7-3 oz., while in 84 cases of cirrhosis the spleen averaged 12-9 oz. (Kelynack). It is true, however, as Foxwell has pointed out, the liver acts as a kind of buffer in cases of morbus cordis, and