497 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES accompanied by the products of their life and death, so will the hypersemia end. The enlargement of the liver which occurs in the febrile state connected with the eruptive and other fevers is due to a general blood in- fection. The spleen is involved in the same lesion, and frequently the kidneys, the lungs, the intestine, the brain, etc., show signs of functional disturbance. Malaria is a toxic agent belonging to this group, and yellow fever in its several forms probably affects the system in this fashion. So-called " menstrual jaundice" is by some regarded as toxic in origin, and by others as a neurotic affection. At the grand climacteric, cases have been recorded in which congestion of the liver with slight jaundice has occurred, and even during suppression of the ordinary menstruation similar symptoms have been noted. The jaundice which accompanies influenza in some outbreaks is accompanied by a hypertemia of the liver. The attack lasts from five to eight days, and the divergence of the biliary secretion is chiefly observable in the urine, although the skin also may be slightly tinged. Exposure to cold or sudden chill is popularly believed to be a cause of hepatic congestion, and one which will bear investigation. It is in the Tropics that "a chill upon the liver" is most frequently observed, and it is during two periods of the day that there are special dangers from this cause. One period is just as the sun is setting, when the earth rapidly cools, when the perspiration is suddenly arrested, and when the clothing, damp from perspiration, acts as a cold wet pack to the surface of the body, lowering the temperature, chilling the surface, and driv- ing the blood from the skin to the thoracic and abdominal organs. At yet another period of the tropical day is " chill" apt to supervene —namely, in the early morning whilst yet in bed. The natural fall in temperature which occurs diurnally about 4 a.m. is a frequent source of abdominal trouble, and hypersemia of the liver particularly. In great heat the bed-clothes are thrown off, or one may have retired without any covering. As morning ap- proaches, however, the cold wakes the sleeper and he almost involuntarily covers the abdomen with a blanket, a sheet, a pillow, or whatever is at hand. The protection may have been applied in time and the effects of the chill prevented; but, on the other hand, diarrhoea or a congestion of the liver may result. The Effect of a Tropical Climate on the Liver. —A young European when he first takes up residence in a warm climate finds that the con- tinued heat acts as a stimulant. His physical energy for some months is increased, and his digestive organs enjoy an increased functional activity. The liver would seem to partake in the excitement, and the result is copious motions, deeply stained by the colouring matter of the VOL. V bile. After a time, however, certainly within twelve months, the functional higher activity seems to become exhausted; in course of time the bile diminishes in quantity, until, judged by the pallor of the stools, it would appear that the liver action is imperfect. Other symptoms elucidate the same fact, and a form of dyspepsia supervenes, accompanied by epi- gastric fulness after meals and a sense of sink- ing when the stomach is empty. Buoyancy of spirits disappears, lethargy supervenes, and several minor ailments, such as occasional head- aches, attacks of morning diarrhoea, etc., bring out the full meaning of the effects of "climate." In this state, if the liver is examined, it will be found increased in bulk. Percussion elicits a feeling of discomfort or actual pain, and all the signs and symptoms of hepatic congestion. In this state a chill, a wetting, wearing damp clothing, a cold bath, indulgence in alcohol, or exposure to the sun, may bring about a hepatitis. vShould, however, care in clothing and diet be exercised, combined with judicious medicinal treatment, the hepatic hyperfemia may subside, and a normal state of health be re-established. When recurrent attacks of congestion of the liver occur, owing largely to persistent depar- ture from the hygienic necessities of a tropical climate, the liver will become permanently damaged. Chronic thickening of the capsule, perihepatitis, induration of the connective tis- sue of the liver, to a greater or less extent, will supervene, and true cirrhosis or hyper- trophy may result. The liver in tropical climates, and in consequence of successive attacks of hypersemia, may become perma- nently enlarged, even to a great extent; but, on the other hand, an atony or true atrophy with shrinking in bulk may ensue. It is by no means an uncommon—in fact, it may be styled a common—condition to meet with a small liver in old tropical residents. In many in- stances it is an atony rather than a true atrophy which occurs. In several intestinal lesions such as chronic diarrhoea, hill diar- rhoea, and sprue, the liver is reduced in size to comparatively minute dimensions; and even independently of any marked ailment, shrink- age of the liver is to be met with. The cause of such a condition is frequently to be found in the reduction in diet incumbent upon persons inflicted with gastric or intestinal derangements. The quantity of food is reduced to a minimum, and the nature of the alimentation is frequently of a kind but little calculated to stimulate the liver to action. The effect is atony of the hepatic function, and if this be attended by intestinal flux, the portal system is kept per- manently drained of its natural blood-supply and the organs of the chylopoietic system generally attenuated. Signs and Symj^toms.—In Active Hyperemia 32