423 LINGERING LABOUR Lingering Labour. See Labour, Pre- cipitate AND Prolonged {Prolonged Labour). Lingo's System.—Swedish gymnastics or physical culture by systematically arranged exercises. Ling'Ua,.—The tongue or any tongue-like structure. Lingua Fraen at a.—Tongue-tie. See Tongue {Malformations, Ankyloglossia). Ling'UaL—Relating to the tongue, e.g. the lingual artery {see Arteries, Ligature of), the lingual nerve {see Nerves, Neuralgia, Division of Lingual Nerve), and the lingual tonsil {see Larynx, Hypertrophy of the Lin- gual Tonsil ; Tongue, Anatomy). Ling'uatula. — The linguatulidse are parasitic ai-thropods found in the nasal cavities and lungs; there are various species, e.g. 1. caprina, 1. rhinaria, 1. serrata, etc. See Para- sites {Arthropods). LingfUla.—A small tongue or tongue-like structure, e.g. the lobule between the central lobe of the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens. Linimentum.—A pharmaceutical pre- paration for rubbing into or applying to the skin, usually made with oil; an embrocation. The principal official linimenta are 1. aconiti (not to be rubbed in), 1. camphoree ammoniatum, 1. belladonncC, 1. calcis, 1. camphorse, 1. chloro- formi, 1. crotonis, 1. hydrargyri, 1. potassii iodidi cum sapone, 1. opii, and 1. saponis. Linoleum.—The oil-cloth and linoleum manufacture is an offensive trade. Linoleum is made from cork mixed with linseed oil, rosin, and Kauri gum, and the heating of the two latter substances causes the nuisance; the vapours should be passed through a water bath and into a furnace. Linseed.—Linum; the dried seeds of Linum usitatissinmm, grown in Britain. They are small and flat in sha,pe, with pointed ends and sharp edges, and of a shiny brown colour. The outside of the seeds contains mucilage, and the interior a fixed oil. Preparations— 1. Linum Contusum (linseed meal). 2. Oleum Lini (a yellow viscid fixed oil). Linseed poultices are used to relieve pain, and to act as counter-irritants over any inflamed area. Linseed meal is beat with a spatula into a thick paste by the gradual addition of boiling water. The paste is spread about ^-inch thick on linen, and applied immediately as hot as the patient can bear it. Its action may be increased by adding 1 part of mustard to 16 of linseed. Linseed oil has been applied to burns. "Carron oil," used for this purpose. contains equal parts of lime water and linseed oil. " Linseed tea " is made by infusing 150 grs. of linseed and 50 grs. of liquorice in 10§ of boiling water for two hours, and is used as a demulcent in sore throat. It is also said to be diuretic. LiOUVilie's Icterus.—Icterus neona- torum or jaundice of the new-born infant. See New-born Infant {Diseases, Icterus neo- natorum). Lip.—A fleshy fold bordering upon an opening such as the mouth, or the vulva (labium majus and minus), or the os uteri (lip of the cervix). See Children, Clinical Examination of {Mouth and Throat, Lips); Eczema {Typ>es, Lips); Herpes {Herpes facialis); Mental Deficiency {Cretinoid Cases, Lips); Mouth, Diseases of {Diseases and Deformities of the Lips); Myasthenia Gravis {Symptoma- tology, Face); Palate, Congenital Malforma- tions of the Mouth {Hare-Lip); Paralysis {Bulbar Paralysis, Lips). Lipacidaemia.—The presence of fatty acids in the blood (Gr. Xittos, fat). Lipaciduria.—The presence of volatile fatty acids in the urine, such as acetic, butyric, formic, and propionic. Lipaemia.—The presence of fatty particles in the blood, as occurs sometimes in diabetes mellitus, and may lead to lipfemic clots in the vessels (capillaries of the lungs). See Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Pulmonary Embolism, Fat Emboli). Li pan in.—A proposed substitute for cod- liver oil, consisting of a solution of oleic acid in olive oil (dose, 1 to 3 oz. daily). Liparocele.—A fatty tumour or fat hernia; lipocele. LiparomphalUS.—An umbilical fatty tumour or epiplocele. Lipase. — A fat - splitting ferment or enzyme, found in the blood and pancreatic juice; it can be detected in the urine of dogs after injury to the pancreas. Lipliawsky's Test. — A test for diacetic acid in the mine: with 6 cc. of a 1 per cent solution of paramidoacetophenon (containing 2 cc. of concentrated hydrochloric acid), 3 cc. of a 1 per cent aqueous solution of potassium nitrite is mixed, and an equal quantity of urine is added along with a drop of ammonia ; to 10 drops of this mixture 15 cc. of concentrated hydrochloric acid, 3 cc. of chloroform, and 2 drops of chloride of iron solution are added. If diacetic acid be present, the chloroform will show a violet colour.