324 LAKYNX, EXAMINATION OF the whole trachea may be got by introducing a small steel mirror through the tracheotomy wound. By this method growths and cicatricial webs of the larynx have been discovered, as well as foreign bodies in the trachea. Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations Laryngitis— Acute ..... . 324 Chronic ..... . 327 Hypertrophic .... . 331 Membranous .... . 331 CEdematous .... . 332 Chronic Subglottic . 333 Nodular. .... . 334 Sicca ..... . 335 Acute, in Children . 336 Larynx— Injuries to . . 336 Dislocations op . 337 Foreign Bodies in . . 337 Laryngeal H^simorrhage . . 339 Glottis— Congenital Glottic Stenosis . . 339 Pachydermia Laryngis . . 340 Blennorrhcea .... . 341 Acute Laryngitis Synonyms : Acute Iiiflatmnation of the Larynx, Cynajiche Laryngea, Angina Laryngea, Acute Catarrh of the Larynx. Definition. — An acute catarrhal inflamma- tion of the mucous membrane of the larynx, characterised by hoarseness or aphonia, pain, and cough. It is, when uncomplicated, without danger to life, and subsides spontaneously in three to ten days. Etiology. — Predisposing Causes. — Acute laryngitis is more apt to occur in the subjects of chronic affections, viz., those with defective digestive, vascular, renal, or respiratory systems. Over-indulgence in eating and drinking, and what is termed a " loaded" condition of the stomach and liver, are amongst the most potent predisposing factors. Defects of circulation naturally make the system less resisting, and, like affections of the kidney, increase the prone- ness to local oedema and catarrh. Amongst the predisposing causes may be numbered gout and rheumatism. Acute inflammation frequently attacks the larynx primarily, and then extends down the trachea. More rarely it may first develop in the bronchi and then spread upwards. It is so uncommon for acute inflammation of the lungs or pleurae to be found with a similar condition of the larynx, that the association can only be looked upon as accidental; on the other hand, it is very usual for catarrhal inflammation to make its appearance in tlie nose and pharynx, and then spread downwards to the larynx. Not only does acute inflammatory catarrh frequently start in the nose and by contiguity spread directly downwards to the larynx, but chronic affections of the nose and pharynx are amongst the most frequent predisposing causes of acute laryngitis. For further consideration of the etiological influence of nasal affections see section on Chronic Laryngitis, p. 327. Those who lead an indoor or sedentary life, especially in ill-ventilated and dusty rooms, are much more prone to attacks of laryngitis than those who are occupied with an outdoor or hardier existence. This tendency is greatly contributed to by the habit of loading the body with unnecessary clothes, wrapping up the neck, and fearfully avoiding every current of fresh air from the supposed dread effects of a " draught." Both extreme youth and extreme age pre- dispose to laryngitis, and in the young the condition is so important and presents so many special characters that it will be considered separately {vide Acute Laryngitis in Children, p. 336). In the elderly the condition is apt to occur from their diminished powers of resist- ance. Men suffer from acute catarrhal affections of the larynx more frequently than women, and this has generally been attributed to their greater exposure to vicissitudes of weather. But, as has just been pointed out, an open-air life in itself is rather a preventive of laryngitis, and it is much more probable that the affection occurs more frequently in members of the male sex from their greater self-indulgence. A very common event is for a patient to pass some hours, stimulated in many cases with alcohol, in the vitiated atmosphere of a crowded and smoke-laden room and then go out directly into a cold, and possibly damp air. The cold air is, of course, blamed for an attack of laryngitis in which it only played a subsidiary part. The disease is more frequently met with in the months of winter and spring. It is more apt to occur in the subjects of chronic laryngitis. Exciting Causes.—An attack of acute laryn- gitis is generally directly attributed to ex- posure to cold and wet. This is more opera- tive when there has been a sudden fall in the temperature associated with increase in the moisture in the air—such as occurs in this climate with east winds. Apart from this it may be directly excited by the inhalation of the irritant fumes of chlorine, bromine, iodine, ammonia, or of sulphuric, nitric, or other fuming acids. The dust of chromic acid, brick dust, and similar powders in factories and workshops will give rise to it. Improper use of the voice — as in the yelling and shouting of street demonstrations—will often induce acute laryn- gitis, especially if the enthusiasm has been stimulated by free indulgence in alcohol. Even without other exciting agents it will sometimes ensue on the vomiting and retching following an alcoholic debauch, and I have known it to be induced by sea-sickness. The passage of foreign bodies into the larynx can give rise to