283 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—FORCEPS 3. The two blades are crossed so as to meet at the point where the blade becomes continuous with the handle. This meeting-place forms the lock or joint of this forceps. In the earliest type the joint is like that of a pair of scissors or coal-vase tongs, except that the pin is riveted only into the left blade, so as to allow of its separate introduction. After the right blade is passed, the orifice at its joint fits over the pin projecting at the joint on the left, and thus the two sides are locked. The pin is sometimes made to work by being screwed into the left side, after the opening or slot on the right has been fitted over it. This form of lock is commonly found variously modified in French forceps. In Germany, the Brunninghausen lock is preferred; in this a button and stem are found on the left blade, and a notch on the right fits on the stem and forms an excellent joint. In Great Britain, forceps are usually made with the Smellie lock, in which the blades mutually fit into grooves on the opposite handles at their crossing, so as to allow of their easy locking (see Fig. 3). II. Curves of Foicceps.—Forceps so constructed are straight from tips of blades to handle-ends Fig. 3.—Smellie's wooden forceps, showing the "Smellie lock." when viewed from the side. They have only one curve to allow of the blades adapting them- selves to the rounded head of the child. 1, The Cephalic Curve.—This is found in every forceps, and enables the practitioner to lay hold of the head of a child lying low in the parturient canal for its extraction. For cases where the head is arrested farther up in the passages, attempts were made to get access to it by lengthening the distance between blades and handles. But the forceps were still straight, and however long the shanks or stems might be, it was impossible to get a satisfactory grasp of the body that had to travel through a curved canal. The head was apt to be seized only by the part lying close to the back wall of the pelvis, and when traction was attempted the forceps slipped. If the practitioner tried to carry the points of the blades forward towards the symphysis to get a fuller grasp of the head, then the shanks or the lock of the instrument were found to be crushing the perineuin. It became evident that to grasp and guide the head through the curved canal the forceps must themselves be curved. 2. The Pelvic Curve.—Pugh and Smellie in this country both independently recognised the importance of having the blades curved, with their tips turning forwards for adaptation to the pelvis, and nearly simultaneously proposed the employment, at least in special cases, of forceps having a pelvic curve. But it was Levret, in Paris, who first published a memoir describing forceps with a " new curve," which made it possible to seize the head at the pelvic brim or at any lower level, and to extract it with the greatest safety to the mother in the proper line of descent through the maternal passages. There may have been others besides who improved forceps in this direction, but it was the clear demonstration of the value of the pelvic curve made by Levret that led to the general intro- duction of the double-curved instrument. Forceps by Pugh, Wallace Johnston, Mulder, and others were contrived with what was called a "perineal curve." In these the shanks were slightly recurved just above the lock, with the view chiefly of avoiding the danger of pressure on the perineum. But they were not widely used; and even after the value of the pelvic curve had been demonstrated, practitioners con- tinued to make use mainly of straight forceps, which were most easily and often secretly applied, and were usually effective in the ex- traction of the head lodged on the pelvic floor. Some obstetricians, even after they had recog- nised the necessity of using the double-curved instrument for what were regarded as " high " or " long " foi'ceps cases, would still use a short straight pair for their " low " or " short" forceps cases. After antesthesia came in to give the operator more freedom in the application of forceps, the smaller straight instrument, that was only applicable to a head at the outlet, gradually gave place to the longer curved instrument that could grasp the head at any level in or above the pelvis, and that could pull the head through the outlet with less danger to the perineum. The more it was used, however, the more clear it became that an instrument with a pelvic curve had two drawbacks when traction was made through straight handles. In the first place, some of the expended trac- tion power was lost, because the pull was not exerted directly in the line of the chord of the blade-cui've, which represents the line of direction for the descent of the head; and in the second place, some of the force was mis- directed, tending to press the head against the symphysis pubis, and thus favouring a slipping of the blades off" the infant's head (see Fig. 4). The Compensation Curve.—In 1860 Professor Hubert, of Louvain, who very clearly demon- strated the disadvantages of the double-curved forceps, proposed to remedy their defect by bending back the free extremities of the handles at a right angle in order to correct the line of traction. In 1868 Dr. Aveling, of London, had forceps constructed with what he called a "handle curve," in which the rounded com- pensation curve of the handles gave the instru- ment, on side view, a sigmoid aspect. Such an instrument, although somewhat more difficult