JOINTS, DISEASES OF 70 adjacent hone may take place at the periphei-y from the osseous focus reaching the surface of the bone at the site of the reflection of the synovial membrane; the infection begins at this point, and then spreads to the rest of the membrane; or it may take place in the central area, by a flood of tuberculous pus escaping into the joint through a hole in the articular cartilage, or by the projection of tuberculous tissue into the joint following upon the gradual erosion of the cartilage. Tuberculous Lesions of the Synovial Membrane and of the Articular Surfaces.—The nature of the changes in the synovial membrane depends upon whether the disease originated in the synovial membrane or in the bone, and in the latter case, whether the osseous focus has erupted directly into the cavity of the joint or has only infected the synovial membrane at the line of its reflection on to the bone, and whether the joint was normal or not at the moment of infection. In the majority of cases the first evidence of disease in the joint is diffuse thicJcening of the synovial membrane; this thickening is chiefly due to the formation of granulation tissue or young connective tissue in the substance of the membrane. It may be described as being arranged in two layers; the outer layer is composed of more fully-formed connective or fibrous tissue, while the inner consists of embryonic tissue, usually studded or per- meated with miliary and other tubercles. The tubercles are met with in all stages in the same joint, some in course of active formation, others quiescent, others again in course of retrogression and cicatrisation. They may be seen shining through the moist shining layer on the free surface, or the inner layer of the synovial membrane may undergo fibrinous degeneration followed by caseation and disintegration, so that the free surface is covered with a thin layer of fibrinous or caseous pus, and a similar material may accumulate in the cavity of the joint. Where there is greater resistance on the part of the tissues there is active formation of young connective tissue circumscribing or en- capsulating the tubercles, so that they remain embedded in the substance of the synovial membrane, and are only revealed when it is cut in sections; the surface of the membrane then retains its smooth shining character, and there may be no fluid in the cavity of the joint. The new formation of tissue in relation to the synovial membrane is rarely confined to its normal limits ; it tends to infiltrate the ligaments and to be projected into the cavity of the joint, filling up its pouches and recesses and f/roumuj over the surface of the articular cartiUu/es like ivy growing over a wall. Wherever the synovial tissue covers the cartilage it becomes adherent to it and fused with it, for covered cartilage always undergoes a retrograde metaplasia into ordinary connective tissue. The morbid process may be arrested at this stage, and may cure with fibrous adhesions between the opposing articular surfaces, or it may progress, in which case further changes occur which result in destruction of the articular cartilages and ex- posure of tJie subjacent bone. The synovial connective tissue covering the cartilage may at first present no structural evidences of the presence of tubercle, but in time it acquires the characters of a tuberculous infiltration and exhibits aggressive qualities; it causes pitting and perforation of the cartilage, it makes its way through the cartilage, and often spreads widely between the cartilage and the subjacent bone so as to separate the cartilage in portions of considerable size. These changes are commonly spoken of as '^ulceration and exfoliation of the articular cartilage." They usually commence and are most marked at the points of junction of synovial membrane and cartilage, viz., at the margins of the articular sui'faces, and at the points of attach- ment of such intra-articular ligaments as the round ligament in the hip and the crucials in the knee. The cartilage is also destroyed more rapidly and extensively when it overlies a caseating, sclerosed, or other focus in the bone; the latter being then exposed in the joint contributes to the progress and aggrava- tion of the disease. To a certain extent the cartilage may be regarded as a barrier to the spread of tubercle, protecting the joint where the disease originates in the bone, and protecting the bone where the disease begins in the synovial membrane. Carious changes in the subchondral bone usually follow upon the destruction of the articular cartilage, and are associated with tubercular infiltration of the marrow in the surface cancelli, and breaking up of the spongy framework of the bone into minute irregular fragments; this disintegration of the surface bone is known as caries. The mutual pressure of articular surfaces against one another, resulting from the con- traction of muscles and other factors, favours the progress of ulceration of cartilage and of articular caries ; these are usually more advanced in areas most exposed to pressure, e.g. on the superior aspect of the head of the femur and on the posterior and upper segment of the acetabulum. When the destructive changes in the articular surfaces are very pronounced, and at the same time there is an absence of caseation and suppuration, the condition has been called caries sicca. The occurrence of pathological dislocation, while possible in any joint, has been specially observed at the hip. It implies softening and stretching of the ligaments which retain the bones in their normal position and some ex-