LIVER, DISEASES OF 473 caseous material, crystals of cholesterin and stearic acid and granules of fat may be seen. In stained sections the caseous area has a homo- geneous appearance, and takes the dye badly or not at all. Near the caseous material giant cells are sometimes seen ; their function is to absorb the debris; they are absent in old gummata, and are rarely so well developed or so numerous as in tuberculous formations. The granulation tissue surrounding the caseous debris undergoes organisation, and forms a fibrous capsule around it, in which there may be found fresh elastic fibres. Spreading out from this into the liver tissue are seen small cell infiltration (intercellular cirrhosis) and bands of fibrous tissue, while the arteries en- closed in the capsule of the gumma show pro- liferation of the intima and narrowing of their lumen (endarteritis obliterans). In the im- mediate neighbourhood of the fibrous capsule pseudo-bile canaliculi are often seen, while the liver-cells are flattened and pressed out of shape. There are thus three zones in a gumma: (1) the central caseous material; (2) the fibrous capsule; (3) the extension of inflammation into the surrounding liver tissue. In young gummata the fibrous capsule is indefinite, and there is extensive infiltration of the surrounding tissues, which may spread to the capsule of the liver, setting up perihepatitis and adhesions, and even infiltrate the diaphragm or the abdominal wall. In an old gumma there is little intercellular cirrhosis around it, the fibrous capsule is thick and is contracting on its caseous contents ; these may gradually undergo absorption, and a scar is left. When imdergo- ing absorption as the result of treatment with iodides, gummata may soften down; but this may also be due to secondary infection, and such a gumma may resemble a chronic abscess and even open into a bile duct. Calcification of a gumma sometimes occurs, either of the caseous centre or of its capsule. A remarkable case of diffuse calcification of the liver recorded by Targett was probably secondary to gummatous infiltration. Cicatrices are generally regarded as the re- mains of old gummata which have contracted up and undergone absorption ; but it is probable that they may develop from masses of syphilitic granulation tissue without any preliminary ne- crosis and caseation. They are seen on the surface of the organ, especially on its convexity, as white depressions invading the substance of the organ for a short distance, being often conical in shape and tapering towards the in- terior of the liver. Situation and Results.—Gummata are usually multiple, though one may be much bigger than the rest; in 86 cases of hepatic gummata col- lected by Dr. Allen only 11 were single. They are much commoner on the anterior surface of the liver than elsewhere, and are said, though this is not my experience, to be specially apt to occur near the falciform ligament. They are very rarely seen embedded in the substance of the organ away from the surface. They are more often met with in the right than in the left lobe. On section they have a dead white colour, and sometimes closely resemble secondary carcinomatous masses. In well-marked cases the liver is much de- formed from the contraction that gummata and their cicatrices induce, and its surface may be depressed and furrowed so as to resemble the lobidation of foetal kidneys. A combination of gummata and cicatrices may, indeed, practically destroy a part or the whole of a lobe; usually, however, gummata and cicatrices are circum- scribed, and the intervening liver tissue is healthy, thus contrasting with the diffuse peri- cellular cirrhosis of congenital syphilis. They often set up local chronic perihepatitis—very rarely universal chronic perihepatitis. When combined with lardaceous disease a gummatous liver is larger than natural; as a rule, it is about the normal size, and where greatly deformed may be smaller than natural. Sig7is and Symptoms.—Gummata and cica- trices are frequently latent and give rise to no disturbance during life. The factors that determine the development of symptoms are : (1) their size and extent; (2) their position. (1) If a gumma is large it will give rise to the signs of a tvimour, and, by irritating the capsule of the liver, to perihepatitis and pain; while the morbid metabolism going on inside it may lead to the production and absorption of poisons which will lead to constitutional symptoms, such as anaemia, asthenia, and perhaps fever. (2) A cicatrix or small gumma on the con- vexity of the liver need give rise to no symptoms, but if situated in the portal fissure jaundice and ascites may follow. There is a great difference between the relative importance of a caseous gumma and an old cicatrix ; for symptoms due to the pressure of an adjacent caseous gumma may be relieved, or disappear under the influence of iodide of potash, whereas it is highly improbable that an old cicatrix will be altered by such treat- ment. Onset.—A fair proportion of the cases manifest themselves within three years of the primary infection; sometimes hepatic manifestations occur much earlier and with great rapidity. On the other hand, a long interval may occur between the infection and the appearance of any symptoms; they may be postponed for thirty or forty years, so that, as in tuberculosis, it might be said that no man should be regarded as cured of syphilis until his autopsy had been thoroughly performed. The clinical manifestations of the tertiary