132 THE CONFECTIONER. sugar, powdered, 1 pint of good eggs, and 14 ounces ol flour. Warm a pan, free from grease, with the sugar in it in the oven until you can scarcely bear your hand against it; then take it out and pour in the eggs : whisk the whole together with a birch or wire whisk until it is quite light and cold, when it will be white and thick. If it should not whisk up well, warm it again and beat it as before ; or it may be beat over the stove fire until it is of the warmth of new milk. When it is finished, sift the flour and stir it in lightly with a spoon, adding a few drops of essence of lemon to flavour it. Butter some tin or copper moulds regularly, so that there is not more on one place than another, nor too thick either, with rather less on the top of the mould than the sides. Dust it with loaf-sugar sifted through a lawn sieve. Knock out all that does not adhere, and again dust it with fine flour; turn it out and knock the mould on the board as before. Tie or pin a piece of buttered paper round the mould, so as to come two or three inches above the bottom. Fix the mould in a stand and nearly fill it. Bake in a moderate oven. When doue, the top should be firm and dry. Try it by pushing in a small piece of stick or whisk, and if it comes out dry, it is done. The surface of the cake should be quite smooth. There is as much art in buttering the mould properly as in preparing the mixture, if not more Cold Mixtures.—Separate the yolks from the whites when you break the eggs. Put the yolks into a clean pan with the sugar, and the whites in another by them- selves. Let the pans be quite free from grease. If they are rubbed round with a little flour, it will take off* any which may be left about them. Wipe them out with a clean cloth. Beat up the yolks and sugar by themselves, with a wooden spoon, and afterwards whip up the whites to a very strong froth. If they should happen to be rather weak, a bit of powdered alum may be added. When the whites are whisked up firm, stir in the yolks