THE CONFECTIONER. 50 the sugar equally, until they are quite dry. Be careful in not making them too wet in the first charges by using too much syrup, or they will lie of a lump and get doubled, and you will have difficulty in parting them. It will prevent their sticking together if the hand is passed through them between every swing o'l the pan, and also add to their smoothness. Do not let the heat under the pan be too strong, or it will spoil their whiteness. Give them four or five charges, increasing the quantity of syrup a little each time, and let each charge be well dried before another is given, dusting them at the last charge with flour. Sift them in a hair sieve, and clean the pan. Put them in again, and give them four or five charges more, with a dust of flour at the last; then sift them and clean the pan. Proceed in this manner until they are one-third of the required size. Put them into the stove or sun to dry until the next day, then clarify and boil some sugar to the large thread, keep it warm as before, divide the comfits, and put part of them in the pan, so as not to have too many in at one time, for as they increase in size you must divide them into convenient portions, so that you may be enabled to work them properly with- out encumbering the pan. Give them four or five charges of syrup, proceeding in the same manner as before, until they are two-thirds or more of the re- quired size, and stove them until the next day. Con- tinue in this manner with each portion alternately, until they are all done. On the third day, boil the syrup to the small pearl, and give eight or ten charges as before, without using flour, so as to finish them, lessening the quantity of syrup each time. Swing the pan gently, and dry each charge well. Put them in the stove for half ai: hour or an hour after each charge, and proceed alter' nately with each portion until they are finished, when they should be about the size of peas. Put them in the stove for a day, then smooth them with the whitest loaf