3 THE CONFECTIONER sparkling grain, in that case break your lump into small pieces and put it in a preserving-pan, with 8 sufficient quantity of water to dissolve it, in which has Deen mixed the white of an egg and powdered charcoal,* as for raw sugar, following those instructions already given. After the sugar has been drained from the bag, pass some water through to take ofF any which may be left in the charcoal, which you use for dissolving more sugar. The scum should always be reserved, when charcoal or black is not used, to mix with articles of an inferior quality. The best refined loaf sugar should be white, dry, fine, of a brilliant sparkling appearance when broken, and as close in texture as possible. The best sort of brown has a bright, sparkling, and gravelly look. East India sugars appear finer, but do not contain so much saccharine matter, yet they are much used for manu- facturing the best sort of common sweetmeats, when clarified, instead of loaf sugar. Degrees of boiling Sugar,—This is the principal * Charcoal varies in its qualities, according to the wood from which it is prepared. That made from porous woods, such as the willow, alder, &c., is the best for clarifying liquids; animal charcoal, or bone black, is also equally good, on account of its light and porous nature; that made from hard woods is only fit for fuel, as it does not possess the clarifying and decolouring properties like that made from the more soft and porous woods. When newly prepared, or if it has been kept free from air, it has the property of absorbing all putrid gases; *^ it is also capable of destroying the smell and taste of a variety of animal and vegetable substances, especially of mucilages, oils, and of matter in which extractive abounds ; and some articles are said to be even deprived of their characteristic odour, by remain- ing in contact with it, as valerian, galbanum, balsam of Peru, and musk. The use of charring the interior of water-casks, and of wrapping charcoal in cloths that have acquired a bad smell, depend upon this property. None of the fluid menstrua with which we are acquainted have any action whatever, » solvents, upon carbon."'—Farts's Phnrmacologia