THE CONFECTIONFR. 82 avoid its graining. Baskets, temples, vases', fountains &c., are made by these means. It may almost be termed the climax of the art. The moulds for tliis purpose may be made either of copper or tin, so as to deliver well. Let them be slightly rubbed all over, on the part you intend to spin the sugar, with butter or oil. Boil clarified syrup to the degree of caramel, taking care to keep the sides of the pan free from sugar. The moment it is at the crack, add a little acid to grease it (see Sugar Boiling). When it has attained the re- quired degree, dip the bottom of the pan into cold water, take it out, and let it cool a little; then take a common table-spoon, dip it in the sugar, holding the mould in your left hand, and from the spoon run the sugar over the mould, either inside or out, with the threads which flow from it, which may be either fine or coarse, according to the state of the sugar ; if they are required very coarse, pass the hand over them two or three times • for when it is hot it flows in finer strings than it will when cooler; form it on the mould into a sort of trellis- work ; loosen it from the mould carefully, and let it re- main until quite cold before it is taken off*, that it may retain its shape. When the sugar gets too cold to flow from the spoon, place it by the side of the stove or fire to melt. Young beginners had better draw their designs for handles of baskets, &c., on a stone with a pencil before it is oiled, and then spin the sugar over them. To make a Silver Web,—Boil clarified syrup to the crack, using the same precautions as before observed, giving it a few boils after the acid is added; dip the bottom of the pan in water and let the sugar cool a little; then take the handle of a spoon, or two forks tied together, dip it into the sugar, and form it either on the inside or outside of a mould, with very fine strings, by passing the hand quickly backwards and forwards, taking care that it does not fall in drops, which would spoil the appearance of your work. With this may he represented the hair of a helmet, the water of a fountain..