DOMKSriC COOKEKT. 72 Another jm?/-—Clioose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-fed ; hang it as above: if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful oommon sal^^ ill Rne powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rmd downwLds, and cover the Reshly part with the ^It^ Baste it as often as you can with the pickle , the moie the better. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it ; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, and turn it sometimes for ten days. , . , , ..i. Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above ; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder : half a pound of common salt, the same (luantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a haU’ of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, tor three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water lor one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another way, that gives a high flavour.—'^ hen the weather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter ot a pound of bay-salt, the same q^uantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer ; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the liam ; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. .\n ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped ; and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve ; the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, course wrappers), if to be smoked where there is ;i strong fire. A method of giving a still higher flavour.— Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung two or tlii-ee days ; let it drain ; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of cori- ander-seeds, two ounces of juniper-berries, an ounce of