70 DOMESTIC COOKERY. heat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning; when well mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into large bits ; and as you fill the skins, put it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled ; and boil m a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch-oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuflSng into basons, and boil it coverd with floured cloths ; and slice and dry it when used. Another way.—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much boiling-hot milk as will sw'ell them and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny-royal, some savoury and th\ me ; salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned tho- roughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost ; then draiir them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted marjoram, all minced fine ; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound of bread crumbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to pre- vent their bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold.