JJIKECIIO.NS POU CAXIVIA'G. xlix p g, by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most esteemed, but the leg lias a highi-r flavour. Goose —Cut olf the apron in the circular line a, b, c, {i>ee Plate No. 5. ) and pour into the body a glass ot port wme ; and a large tea-spoonful of mustard, nrst mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another ; but only re- move them as you help each person, unless the com- pany IS so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings, lake off the leg, by putting the fork into the small end of the none, pressing it to the body, and bavin-' passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and, if a young bird, it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and jness it close to the body ; then put in the knife’ at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direc- tlou a, €. Nothin;^ but practise will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other ; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goo.-e, unless the company be very large. There are twj side-bones by the wing, which may be cut off, as like- wise the back and lower side-bones ; but the best pieces are the breast, and the thighs after being di- vided from the drum-sticks. A Fowl.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly ; but, before it is served, the skewers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate, and place the joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wing off in the direction of a to b, in the annexed engraving, only dividing the joint with your knife: and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wing towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more complete form than if cut. .Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut lo llie bone; then with the fork turn the leg buck, a.id