FISH. it id. It ^onld then be immediately taken out of the v-ater, or it will be woolly. The fish-plate should }>e set crossways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving • and a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losimr Its colour. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.— Great attention should be paid to tlie garnisinng fish: use plenty ot horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. Tlie liver and roe should he placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a nice soft cloth after it is well cleansed and washed. —When perfectly dry, wet with an egg, if for frying' and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish wall look much better ; then having a thick-bottomed frying-pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the fish into it, and let It fry middling q^uick, till the colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take it up, and place it either on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain, and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all tlie crumbs appear distinct ; the fish being free from all grease, llie same dripping, with a little fresh, will serve a second time, liutter gives a bad colour: oil tries of the finest colour for those who will allow the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus done: When wfished and picked, throw it again into clean water ; when the lard or dripping boils, throw tlie parsley