Xlvi DIUECTIONS Foil CAIIVIXG. part of the fat lies on the outer edge, and it is to be cut out in thin slices in the direction e. If many are at table, and the hollow part cut in the line a, b, is eaten, some very good and delicate slices may be cut out on each side of the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between these two dotted lines, is tliat in the direction of wdiich the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be cut across. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutton (which is the best flavoured) may be known by a round lump of fat at the edge of the broadest part, as at a. The best part is in the midway, at b, between the knuckle and further end. Begin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from e to f. Tiiis part is most juicy ; but many prefer the knuckle, which in tine mutton will be very tender though dry. There are very fine slices on the back of the leg ; turn it up, and cut the broad end, not in the direction you did the otlier side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh-bone at d ; then pass the knife under the cramp- bone, in the direction d, g. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end, beginning close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. A Fore-quarter of Lamb.—Separate the shoulder ^ from the scoveii, (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the knife under in the direction a, b, c, cl, {See Plate No. 2.) keeping it towards you horizon- tally, to prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Se- ville orange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprin- kle a little salt and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the ribs in the line e, c ; and help either from tliat, or from the ribs, as may be chosen.