directions for carving. xIv of the sound, which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker- coloured than the body of the fish itself: this may be got by passing a knife or spoon underneath in the direction d, J. About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of the jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw-bones, and the firm parts with- in the head. Some are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which likewise may be got by patting a spoon into the mouth. Edge-bone of Beef.—Cut off a slice an inch thick all the length from a to b, {See Plate No. 1.) and then help. Ihe soft fat, which resembles marrow, lies at ttie back of the bone, below c; the firm fat must be cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. It is proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. The skewer that keeps the meat properly together, when boiling, is here shown at a. This should he drawn out before it is served up ; or, if it is necessary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one. Calf ’s-Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if Iironerly managed. Cut slices from a to b, {See Plate No. 1.) letting the knife go close to the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat sweetbread, whicti you should help a slice of from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye ; which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jaw-bone be taken off, there will be found .some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is reckoned a nicety ; the lady of the house should be acquainted with all things that are thought so, that she may distribute them among her guests. Shoulder of Mutton,—This is a very good joint, and by many preferred to the leg, it being very full of gravy, if properly roasted, and produces many nice bits. The figure represents it as laid with its back uppermost. When it is first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of a, b, and the knife should be passed deep to the bone. The prime