Xliv DITIECTIONS FOR CARVI.NG. whether the outside or the inside is preferred. For tlie outside, the slice should be cut dpwn to the bones ;; and the same with every following helping. Slice the ■ inside, likewise, and give with each piece some of the i soft fat. The inside, done as follows, eats excellently :—Have ready some shalot-vinegar boiling hot; mince the meat large, and a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it with salt, and pour the shalot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help ' with a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hot plates. Round or Buttock of Beef cut in the same way as fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even all over. When helping the fat, observe not to liack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the beef before you begin to help, as will be directed for the edge-bone. Fillet of Veal.—In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing, which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap which completely covers it ; you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the carver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the brisket) is thickset, and has gristles : put your knife about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and help accordingly. A Cod’s Head.—Fish in general requires very little carving, the fleshy parts being those principally esteemed. A cod’s head and shoulders, when in season, and properly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the parts about the back-bone on the shoulders are the most firm and the best. Take off a piece quite down to the bone, in the direction a, b, c, d, puttixig in thespoonat a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece