xl viii DlfliiCTiOXS I'OR CARVim jVb. 4. ) ftnd so cut b11 tlie way down to trie rump, oil one side of the back-hone, in the line a, h. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a ; lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut ttiem ; and then help the company, giving some pud- ding and gravy to every person. This way can only be practised when the hare is young ; if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm, but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at tlie joint; which you must endeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the back ; then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman’s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off the head, put your knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper fiat on your plate ; then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. Tlie ears and brains may be helped then to tliose who like them. Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare ; cutting the back into two pieces, which, with the legs, are the prime. xl Pheasant.—Tlte bird in the anne.xed engraving is as trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its wings. 'When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the following is the way to carve it:— Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; slice it down in the lines a, b ; take off the leg on one side in the dotted line b, d ; then cut off the wing on the Bame side, in the line c, d. Separate the leg and wing on the other side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided before. Be careful how you take off the wings, for if you should cut too near the neck, as at g, yon will hit on the neck-bone, from which the wing must be separated. Cut off tJie merrythought in the