371 PEDICULOSIS capitis, pediculus corporis, and pediculus pubis. With regard to the last-named, Leach places it in a separate genus, under the name of Phthirius inguinalis, a distinction which meets with the approval of Chatin. As to Alt's pediculus tabes- centium, or distemper louse, it is not a separate species, as it has been identified as the pediculus corporis (Glaus). Anatomy of the Pediculi.—The chief anatomi- cal points of the three kinds are as follows :— Pediculus capitis {le pou de tete, die Kopjlaus). —The female head-louse is from 2 to 2'5 mm. long, by 1 mm. broad. The male is smaller (about 1'5 mm. long), and it is found in mnch smaller numbers. The head of the pediculus capitis is triangular. The female has the last abdominal segment notched at its extremity and on its ventral surface, the vaginal orifice being placed in the latter situation. The last segment is rounded in the male, and bears the penis on its dorsal surface. In copula- tion the female is, therefore, on the back of the male. The ova or " nits " are deposited on the hairs, to which they are firmly attached by means of a cement substance. They are provided with a Kd or operculum at the free end. A number of them may be found on one hair, the lowest nit being the one first deposited and the first to hatch out ; but as a rule there is only one nit on a hair. Aristotle thought nothing was produced from the nits. The period of incubation is six days, and in some fourteen days after hatching out the animal is fully developed. Pediculus corporis [le pou du corps, die Lei- blaus, die Kleiderlaus, pediculus vestimentorum, tailor's louse).—The body-louse is very like the head-louse, only that it is larger, attaining to 3 mm. in length by 1 to 1*5 mm. in breadth, has a rather more oval head and more powerful legs, provided with larger claws. The nits may be deposited on the small hairs of the skin as well as in the clothes, a fact mentioned in Rees's Cyclopaedia, but apparently quite lost sight of until Allan Jamieson called attention to this important point. The body-louse is very prolific. Leeuwenhoek calculated, from a quaint experiment on himself, that two females might in eight weeks produce as many as 10,000 descendants. Pedicuhis pubis [Phthirius inguinalis, Le pou d%t pubis, le morpion, die Fihlaus).—This louse differs very much from the two previous ones, and its popular name, crab-louse, is not at all a bad one. As a whole it is much broader and flatter, with a rounded head, provided with prominent eyes. The thorax and abdomen are not sharply divided off. The anterior pair of legs differ from the two posterior pairs, in that the latter are armed with strongly curved claws, with which the animal firmly anchors itself. The nits are deposited on the hairs. The young hatch out in a week, and reach maturity in two weeks. The symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment will now be discussed. Pediculosis Capitis Symptoms.—The presence of the parasite in the head gives rise to great irritation, which leads to scratching, with the production of ex- coriations and pustular lesions. The latter are the result of the planting out of the staphylo- coccus by the nails, leading to impetigo con- tagiosa, which is not limited to the scalp, but may be found scattered about the face and body beyond the base of operations of the pediculus. The occipital region is the part most affected, and here the hair becomes sticky and matted together. The neighbouring glands are often enlarged, tender, and inflamed, as a result of the local pus irritation ; they may even sup- purate in bad, neglected cases. This glandular enlargement is usually the symptom upon which the mother of the child insists as the primary one, the pediculi being considered as the effect rather than the cause in accordance with the old superstition of spontaneous generation. Besides, it is a comforting theory, which absolves the mother from neglect. When the hair is worn long, scratch-marks and pus lesions may be found about the neck and the upper part of the back, although the pediculi are only present in the scalp. It is said they may sometimes be found in the beard. Plica polonica was thought at one time to be a special disease of the hair. It is really very chronic, neglected pediculosis capitis, in which the hair becomes matted together from pus and filth. Diagnosis. — In the case of children with pustular lesions at the back of the head, ten to one it is pediculosis capitis. This can be con- firmed by examination, with a lens if necessary, when the nits will be readily seen. They are adherent to the hairs, and can be readily dis- tinguished from epidermic scales. The pedi- culus itself may be discovered, but the presence of nits is quite sufficient to clinch the matter, and will serve to differentiate the condition from simple impetigo contagiosa. The same applies to adults with irritation about the back of the head. Treatment.—Where it is not imperative to preserve the hair, as in most children, it should be cut off close, thus getting rid of the adherent nits. The crusts must be softened with oil and picked off" (the latter is an important direction), and the following ointment smeared on four or five times a day :—Hydrarg. amnion, gr. x, ol. olivte Tr^x, adipis gj. In this way the pus cocci and pediculi are destroyed. Where the hair cannot very well be cut off", in women and some children, it should be