558 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 4. The nuclei of the cranial nerves, masses of cells from which the nerves take origin (Fig. 95). 2. Conducting Paths A. Ingoing.—1. The posterior columns of the spinal cord terminate in two masses of grey matter on each side, the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus. From these, fibres pass for- wards {i.e. towards the anterior aspect of the yjjl AccN Fig. 94.—Cross section oi medulla through the olive. The central canal has opened out to form the floor of the fourth ventricle, ith V., the lateral columns are passing out to form the interior peduncles of the cerebellum ; F., fillet; 0., inferior olivary nucleus; P., anterior pyramids ; Rest., fibres of restiform body; V., ascending root of fifth nerve ; VIII. Acc.N., accessory nucleus of the eighth nerve. (After Bruce.) ficial and deep transverse fibres of the pons (Fig. 96, P.), come to lie in the anterior pyra- mids of the medulla (Fig. 93, P.). At the lower end of the medulla most of these fibres cross (p. 556) to the lateral column of the cord ; some, however, run down the direct and crossed pyra- midal tracts of the same side. 2. The fibres of the descending antero-lateral tract, coming originally from the deep nuclei of the cerebellum, take origin, in part at least, in a mass of nerve cells (Deiters' nucleus), which lies in the dorsal and lateral part of the pons Varolii (Fig. 96, Beit.). C. Commissural Fibres. — 1. The basis bundles of the cord form in the medulla a strong band of fibres connecting the grey matter at different levels, the posterior longitudinal fasci- culus. 2. A set of fibres runs from each olivary body across the middle line to the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum of the opposite side. medulla) and cross the middle line forming the decussation of the fillet (Fig. 93, F.). The crossed fibres (Fig. 94, F.) then pass up in a vertical series on each side of the middle line until the pons Varolii is reached, when they 96, F.) Above 99, F.) pons spread out horizontally like a fan (Fig dorsally to the deep transverse fibres, the pons they divide into two sets (Fig. —a lateral fillet, which ends in the anterior corpora quadrigemina, and a mesial fillet, which passes on to the optic thalamus, and there ends by form- ing synapses. 2. The spino-thalmic tract passes up through the medulla, and with the mesial fillet ends in the thalamus. 3. The direct cerebellar tract passes up into the restiform body, and so on to the supei'ior vermis of the cerebel- lum (p. 559). Its fibres form synapses round cells chiefly on the opposite side. 4. The ventro-spinal cerebellar tract passes up beside the last, but it leaves it in the restiform body and courses forward, to arch back into the cerebellum round the superior cerebellar peduncle and to form synapses with the cells of the superior vermis (Fig. 96, p. 559). B. Outgoing.—1. The fibres from the cerebral cortex, which form in the cord the crossed and direct pyramidal tracts, pass down in the middle part of the crusta (Fig. 99, P.) of the crura cerebri, and, after coursing between the super- 3. Cranial Nerves {The physiology of these should be studied while dissecting them.) The nerves springing from and entering the medulla do not come off in the same regular fashion as do the spinal nerves, although they, like the spinal nerves, must be considered as forming part of the spinal arcs. The outgoing fibres of each spring from a more or less definite mass of cells. The ingoing fibres generally form synapses with Fig. 95.—The nuclei and roots of the cranial nerves. (After Edinger.) cells arranged in definite groups. In this way the so-called nuclei of the cranial nerves are formed. The position of these is indicated in Fig. 95. In the cranial nerves no sharp differ- entiation into anterior and posterior roots can be made out; nevertheless they contain the same component elements as the spinal nerves, the fibres running either together or separately. Ingoing Fibres. — Somatic and splanchnic fibres (p. 550) enter the medulla and have their cell stations in ganglia upon the nerves.