PARASITES 353 the lateral portions of the proglottis. The eggs are oval, of a brown colour, 70 /a long by 45 /x broad, and the shell has an operculum at one pole. They are shred from the proglottides before the latter are detached from the chain. Fig. 20.—Eggs of Bothriocephalus lalus. (After Mosler and Peiper.) If an egg has been passed from the host and carried into water, a six-hooked embryo gradu- ally develops within the shell in the course of several months. The embryo, which is covered with cilia, pushing open the operculum, then escapes and swims about. Its intermediate hosts are, as was proved by Braun, the pike and the burbot, though the larv;e may be seen in other fishes also. The larva, which is 1-2-5 cm. long, 2-3 mm. broad, and has a head ex- actly similar to that of B. latus, inhabits the muscles, viscera, and peritoneal cavity. When the larva is ingested by man the head buds off proglottides, and the adult tapeworm is thus formed. Bothriocephalus latus has a definite geographi- cal distribution. It is found in the western cantons of Switzerland and the adjacent parts of northern Italy. It occurs also in the districts bordering on the Baltic, especially the eastern provinces of Prussia, and the Swedish and Russian coasts, and again is a frequent parasite in Japan. In all these countries the tapeworm is acquired by eating raw, though often smoked, fish. It is a tapeworm very seldom seen in this country. Bothriocephalus cristatus (Davaine, 1874).— This worm is described as having no furrows on the head, and as presenting a difference from B. latus as regards the uterine " rosette." It is, however, not a separate species, but merely an anomalous form of the latter worm (Blan- chard, 1896; Galli-Valerio, 1900; etc.). Bothriocephalus cordatus (Leuckart, 1863).— It is 80-115 cm. long ; the head is heart-shaped, and has two grooves; the genital pore lies in the median line of each proglottis. It is para- sitic in Iceland and Greenland in the dog and walrus, and occasionally in man. Bothriocephalus Mansoni (Cobbold, 1883); Syn. : Ligula Jfansom (Cobbold, 1883); etc.— Only the larva is known. It may be as much as 20 cm. long, and 2-8 mm. broad. The head has two grooves. It has been foimd in a few cases in China and Japan, inhabiting the con- nective tissues. Symptoms caused by Tapeivo7-ms.—The head is firmly fixed to the mucous membrane between VOL. VII the villi, and no doubt is often buried to some extent in the mucous membrane. The parasite consequently causes some amount of irritation and catarrhal inflammation. In most cases, however, the disturbance caused is insufficient to produce any symptoms, the first indication of the worm being the passage of proglottides per rectum. In other cases the most common symptoms are desire for an excessive quantity of food, great partiality for sweetened articles, intermittent colic, and other unpleasant or painful abdominal sensations, especially towards the umbilical region; further, diarrhoea, anal pruritus, and in rare instances vomiting, and nervous phenomena similar to those seen in infection with Ascarides—for example, headache, inequality in the size of the pupils, convulsions, paresis, and so forth. ^ In some cases, again, there is considerable anaemia, but this is rarely serious except in infection with Bothriocephalus latus, when the ansemia has been recorded as of the pernicious form. None of the symptoms are in any way diagnostic; the only certain proof of the presence of a tapeworm is the detection of proglottides or ova. The former rarely migrate spontaneously unless they be those of T. saginata, in which species, too, they are larger and more often single than is the case with T. solium. In B. latus long chains of segments are passed. The special points to be relied on in diagnosis of the species from one another are the characters of the uterus and the structural features of the head. If no proglottides are being expelled by the patient, the characteristic eggs should be sought for; but those of T. saginata can with difficulty be distinguished from those of T. solium. Treatment.—The day before the administra- tion of the anthelmintic, the patient receives a light and liquid diet, and takes at night a dose of castor oil or other cathartic. The anthelmintic is then given on the following morning to the fasting patient. Filix mas is the best drug; for an adult 60-120 minims of the liquid extract are given in combination with mucilage and syrup in peppermint water, etc., or it is given in capsules. Two hours later castor oil is taken in order that the worm may be expelled. It is most important to search for the scolex, for unless it be expelled the development of proglottides will continue as before. If only part of the tapeworm have been expelled, and part be still protruding from the anus, no attempt should be made to pull the worm out, for a simple rectal injection will cause its expulsion with greater certainty, and is followed by less risk of tearing it and of ' These symptoms are probably due to toxic products formed by the cestodes. Calamida {Centr. f. Bakt. XXX., 1901) shows that the toxins obtained from Dipyl. caninum and T. ca'niirus, when injected into rabbits and guinea-pigs, are not only pathogenetic, but that they cause haemolysis and are positively chemiotatic, espe- cially as regards the eosinophile leucocytes. 23