PARALYSIS 306 extremely rare for the chronic form of affection to commence in childhood. The peroneal type of muscular atrophy, in which there is degeneration in the peripheral nerves and posterior columns of the spinal cord, is distinguished by the following features:— Although the small muscles of the hands waste, the atrophy commences in the peronei and other muscles of the leg below the knee, the onset of the disease is in childhood, several members of the family are similarly affected, and there may even be a hereditary history of the affection. Further important points of distinction from progressive muscular atrophy are the occurrence of pain, blunting of cutaneous sensibility, and vaso-motor changes in the skin. Peripheral ne%iritis usually causes pain or tingling sensations, the nerves are tender to pressure, and some anaesthesia can usually be determined. Moreover, the onset is more rapid in neuritis, paralysis precedes muscular atrophy, and corresponds to the anatomical distribution of the nerve affected; moreover, the reaction of degeneration is more complete. Fibrillary tremors do not occur, and all spastic phenomena are absent. When the neuritis affects the cervical nerve roots the diagnosis is usually more difficult, for the same muscles may then be affected as in progressive muscular atrophy, and there may be very little blunting of sensibility ; but the paralysis is of more rapid onset, and pain is usually a prominent symptom. Cervical pachymeningitis may also be difficult to distinguish, owing to the similarity in the distribution of the muscular atrophy, and from the further fact that spastic phenomena may be present in the lower extremities, suggesting amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. There is, how- ever, a good deal of rigidity about the neck, without any similar condition in the arms, pain is usually severe, there may be tenderness on pressure over the cervical spines, and some anaesthesia can as a rule be determined. It is, further, important to remember that bulbar symptoms never occur in these cases. Caries or tumour at the level of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae may occasion atrophy of the small muscles of the hands, and spastic phenomena in the lower limbs. But pain in the back, pain radiating along the nerve roots, tenderness on pressure over the spine at this level, the occurrence of angular curvature, the absence of spasticity in the arms, the presence of anaesthesia, and the frequency of sphincter affection, all serve to distinguish these cases from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Syringomyelia.—The distribution of the mus- cular atrophy in this disease, affecting as it usually does the small muscles of the hands, and the presence of spasticity and exaggerated tendon - jerks in the lower extremities, may suggest amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but the absence of spasticity in the arms, the presence of anfesthesia, the occurrence of painless whitlows and other trophic disturbances of the skin, nystagmus, and lateral curvature of the spine, all serve to make the diagnosis clear. Primary Spastic Paraplegia.—Although the spastic phenomena are the same as in amyo- trophic lateral sclerosis, there is no atrophy of the muscles such as occurs in the latter disease. Disseminated Sclerosis.—In this disease also, although it is common to meet with spastic phenomena, muscular atrophy is rare. More- over, optic nerve atrophy, nystagmus, the peculiar speech defect, intention tremor, and early affection of the sphincter of the bladder, make the diagnosis of the disseminated disease certain. Myelitis is of more rapid onset, sensation is commonly affected, as are the sphincters, while it is rare to meet with atrophy of the small muscles of the hands in this affection. The differential diagnosis of chronic nuclear bulbar paralysis will be dealt with when all the forms of bulbar paralysis have been described {see p. 309). Prognosis. — Though always grave, the prognosis varies with the form that the disease assumes. It is best in progressive muscular atrophy without indications of lateral sclerosis, and most unfavourable in bulbar paralysis, while amyotrophic lateral sclerosis stands inter- mediate between the other two forms as regards the seriousness of the outlook. In progressive muscular atrophy there may be arrest of the disease, either spontaneously or as a result of treatment, and the arrest may be permanent; but in other cases the disease subsequently progresses to a fatal termination. Muscles that no longer respond to electrical stimuli cannot be expected to recover, but when the damage to the muscles has only been slight it is possible that thei'e may not only be arrest of the atrophy, but even some improvement in their nutrition. The gravity of the case is always much increased when there are indica- tions of bulbar paralysis, or when the muscles of respiration are involved; but as long as the muscles of the limbs are alone affected there are no grounds for apprehension as to the immediate future. A fatal issue is inevitable in bulbar paralysis, and the end is usually reached within two years from the onsSt of the affection. The deterioration is as a rule steadily progressive, though in some cases the affection remains stationary for a time, only to progress again, however, after this temporary lull. Death may result from paralysis of respiration, owing to extension of the morbid process to the nucleus of the vagus, or the patient may die from asthenia consequent on the ingestion of an insufficient amount of food. Life may, on the other hand, be cut short by