OPERATIONS 172 NALES {Operative Procedures); Vulva, Diseases OF THE [Injuries, etc., Treatment); Wounds (Treatment); Wrist-Joint, Injuries op {Treat- ment) ; Wry-Neck {Treatment). Operculum. — Literally, operculum means a cover or lid, and the name opercula insulw is given to the parts of the cerebrum which overlap and hide from view the island of Reil ; the ileo-caecal valve is sometimes called the operculum ilei, and the branchial clefts in the embryo have opercula. Ophiophag^US. See Snake-Bites {Elapidoe). Ophfyon.—In craniolog-y, the ophryon is the central point of the narrowest transverse diameter of the forehead at the level of the upper margins of the orbits; it is used in crani- ometry (Gr. Scjipvs, an eyebrow). OphryOSiS.—Spasm of the eyebrow (Gr. 6<f>pvs, an eyebrow). Ophthalmia. See Blind, Training and Education op {Ophthalmia ]Veonat07-um); Brain, Cerebellum, Appections op {Tumours, Nettro- paralytic Ophthalmia) ; Conjunctiva, Diseases op {Inflammatory); Fipth Nerve, Affections OF {Neuro-paralytic Ophthalmia); Joints, Dis- eases op {Bacterial Diseases in Gonorrhoeal Ophthahnia) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Paralysis, Etiology); Sympathetic Ophthal- mitis. Ophthalmitis. See Ophthalmia and cross-references. Ophthalmo-.—in compound words opA- thalmo- (Gr. 6<f>6akfji6';, the eye) means relating to the eye; e.g. ojihthalmomalacia (subnormal tension of the eye), ophthalmorrhagia (haemor- rhage from the eye), ophthalmospasm (ocular spasm), etc. Ophthaimocephalus. — A terato- logical type met with in veterinary pathology which resembles cyclopia, but differs from it in the absence of the median orbit and of the olfactory apparatus. OphthalmodonesiS.—Tremblings or oscillatory movements of the eye. Ophthalmodynia.—Pain in the eye, usually neuralgic in type. Ophthalmology.—The study of the pliysiology and pathology of the eye. Ophthalmometer.—An instrument for determining errors of refraction in sight. Ophthalmoplasty.—The plastic surgery of the eye. Ophthalmoplegria. Externa 172 Interim . . . . . . .172 Treatment 173 Diagnosis . . . . . .173 See also Brain, Inflammations {Clinical Features of Acute Encephalitis); Brain, Cere- bellum, Affections of {Tumours, Symptoms); Myasthenia Gravis {Symptomatology); Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Paralysis, Nuclear Lesions); Spasm (Farteizes); ^Yvmus {Tertiary, Eye Sy7)i2ytoms); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomato- logy) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symptoms). Ophthalmoplegia.—The term, as generally used, means a paralysis of the ocular muscles due to a lesion situated in their nuclei of origin. It is usual to apply the term "ophthalmoplegia ex- terna " to a paralysis involving the external ocular muscles, among whicli the levator pal- pebral superioris is included, while the term " ophthalmoplegia interna " is employed when the paralysis affects the iris or the ciliary muscle. The terms "complete" and "incom- plete " are also frequently used in describing ophthalmoplegia to specify whether all or only some of the muscles are affected. Cases where ophthalmoplegia externa and interna are present together are often described as " mixed." According as one or both eyes are affected, we may speak of a monocular or a double ophthal- moplegia. The above may all be combined in various ways. Usually both eyes are more or less affected. In complete cases, ophthalmo- plegia totalis, movement is totally lost, giving the eyes a strange fixed appearance. The levator palpebrae escapes more frequeutly than the other muscles, and even when present the ptosis is often incomplete. Weakening of the orbicularis palpebrarum, so that firm closure of the eyelids is impossible, is occasionally seen, and it has been supposed that the facial muscles near the eye have a connection with the nucleus of the third nerve. Certain forms of nuclear ocular palsy are congenital. Congenital ptosis, which is usually associated with weakness of the superior rectus, is of nuclear origin, but is not commonly in- cluded under the term ophthalmoplegia. In infantile cases the course of the disease is slow, but usually progressive, although seldom attended by bulbar symptoms. Ptosis is much more frequent in these cases than in the oph- thalmoplegia of adult life. Occasionally the facial nucleus is involved in the degenerative process. Much more commonly the disease appears in adult life, involving at first usuallj' one or two muscles only, and very often those taking part in associated movements. Many cases remain stationary, i.e. after a certain number of