NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM 76 initial site of a septic process responsible for the necrosis of so much tissue as to induce true furunculus. The prognosis of such affections is necessarily guided by general principles, though so far as an eczema is dependent upon acute or chronic rhinitis a cure of the skin affection will necessarily depend upon the removal of its etiological factor. In treatment we are guided again by general principles, the main endeavour being to protect the irritated skin from the discharge flowing over it. There is no better local application for this purpose than the vaseline of commerce, though it is often advisable to use it in conjunction with oxide of zinc, or with a few grains of calomel. A convenient plan is to dilute the zinc ointment with an equal part of paraffinum fluidum, which makes it of such consistence that it can be applied with a camel-hair brush. Where the eczema is associated with suppuration about the hair follicles the diluted nitrate of mercury ointment is sometimes used with benefit, while sulphide of calcium may be occasionally given with great advantage. Of course, where furun- culus is forming, hot fomentations must be used freely and incision made as soon as point- ing is defined. Other skin infections of the vestibule of the nose, such as lupus and other infective processes, are occasionally met with in conjunction with the same affections of the adjoining mucous membrane ; and, of course, their treatment must be guided by collateral indications. Affections op the Septum Nasi Affections of the septum nasi may be classified according as they are simply malformations, or are definitely pathological. Probably there are no congenital malformations ; for the various distortions and thickenings of the septum, whether cartilaginous or bony, are never seen during the first few years of life, seldom indeed under the age of seven—though it is well to remember that there may exist the congenital, more or less complete, occlusion of the posterior nares by a membranous partition. The only pathological conditions of any importance, apart from hypertrophy of the erectile tissue (which will be discussed in its place), are abscess and perforation. Abscess is occasionally met with as the result of trau- matism, the immediate cause being a compound comminuted fracture of the triangular cartilage. Occasionally by such septic process the whole of the cartilage is sometimes destroyed, leaving the nose permanently deformed. The rhino- scopic appearances are peculiar: the nostrils obstructed by a smooth, fluctuating tumour, symmetrically disposed on the two sides, is characteristic enough for easy diagnosis, though of course the fluctuation may be caused by eftVised blood at a stage prior to the onset of suppuration. The only treatment is to open the abscess on both sides and pass a drainage tube through the septum so that it may emerge at both nostrils. The abscess-cavity can then be irrigated until perfectly sweet with some common antiseptic fluid. Abscesses may also probably arise from other causes, such as tubercle or the breaking down of a gumma; but in this case, although the triangular cartilage may be completely destroyed, no malformation of the nose will result provided neither the nasal bones, the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, nor the vomer are involved. Indeed, perfora- tions of the triangular cartilage are not un- common, and may follow typhoid, scarlet, and possibly other fevers. Sometimes they are the result of ulceration, induced by constant removal of the inspissated mucus with the finger, and then are often associated with epistaxis. When involving the bony septum they are generally syphilitic, though I have good reason for believing they may follow influenza and possibly even simple catarrhal processes. Malformations of the septum arise owing to some irregularity in the development process. It would appear that the septum having arranged for a certain extent of growth in a vertical direction, and for a certain degree of prominence in the nose, became arrested in such endeavour by the lack of corresponding enlargement of the nasal fossae themselves in their vertical diameter. Thus, should the septum continue its attempts at extending after its limits have been fixed, it will spend itself by developing in other directions; and in this manner may be accounted for the devia- tions of the septum which are so common, as well as the ridges and spurs so frequently responsible for nasal stenosis. The deviations in themselves are generally of less importance than the thickening at the angle of deviation on its convex side; and the ob- struction thereby produced can generally be corrected sufficiently by paring with the knife or saw the actual thickening. Such thicken- ings, whether cartilaginous or osseous, are often out of all proportion to the amount of deviation, and assume such a size that they may block more or less completely the fossae by pressure on inferior or middle turbinal. Indeed, spurs and ridges are often found without deviation, when they generally extend in a direction upwards and backwards, following the line of union between the vomer and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. It is unnecessary to speak of the symptoms induced by these septal malformations, seeing that they do not differ from those appertaining to other forms of nasal stenosis, which are dis- cussed at length under the ai'ticle devoted to " Adenoids." For frequently recurring catarrhs, whether of nose, larynx, bronchial, or Eustachian tubes, a spur may often be held responsible.