102 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES municates at its most dependent part with the nasal cavity (Fig. 2). The ostium frontale forms the upper end of the naso-f rontal duct which leads downwards into the infundibuliim of the nose. The Ethmoidal Cell Labyrinth is mainly con- tained in the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, but it may extend upwards into the frontal bone, backwards into the sphenoid, and in- feriorly into the superior maxillary bone. It is divided into an anterior and posterior group of cells, there being as a rule no intercom- munication between the two groups. The relative space occupied by each set of cells and the number of cells in each vary considerably. The subdivision is based upon the position of the diiferent openings communicating with the nose. Some of the anterior ethmoidal cells open directly into the middle meatus, others again open into the infundibulum, and thence through the hiatus semilunaris into the meatus. The posterior ethmoidal cells communicate with the superior meatus (Fig. 2). The ethmoidal cells have an important relation to the orbit, the OS planum of the ethmoid bone forming both the outer wall of the labyrinth and the inner wall of the orbital cavity (Fig. 4). Certain of the anterior ethmoidal cells have received special names, thus: a large cell situated on the inferior aspect of the lateral mass is termed the ethmoidal bulla; the ethmoidal cell which occasionally extends up- wards and forms an elevation upon the floor of the frontal sinus is designated the frontal bulla; lastly, an air space is sometimes present in the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone which is spoken of as the turbinal cell (Figs. 2 and 4). The Sphenoidal Sinuses occupy the anterior portion of the body of the sphenoid bone (Fig. 2). The two cavities are separated by a mesial vertical bony partition, which is usually com- plete. The cavities vary in size in different skulls. The larger the cavity the thinner are its walls, and vice versa, a fact which may considerably influence the symptoms produced by an inflammatory affection within the sinus. The anterior wall is thin, and forms the posterior part of the roof of the nose. It contains the orifice of the sinus, which is situated considerably above the floor of the cavity, sometimes close to the intervening septum, in other cases nearer the outer lateral wall of the cavity. It communicates with the spheno-ethmoidal recess (Fig. 2). The 2wsterior wall abuts upon the basi-occipital bone. The roof of the sinus has important relations to certain intracranial structures lying upon the basis cranii, namely, the optic chiasma, the pituitary body, and even the pons Varolii. The optic nerve and ophthalmic artery are situated in the angle between the roof and external lateral wall of the sinus. The intervening layer of bone may be extremely thin. The floor of the sphenoidal sinus forms part of the roof of the nasal chamber. The inner or mesial wall is the septum between the two cavities. It may be considerably deviated from the mesial plane. The external lateral wall lies in relation to certain cranial nerves, the third, fourth, the ophthalmic, and sometimes the superior maxillary divisions of the fifth nerve, also the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Diiferent views have been held at various times with regard to the function of these cavities. Some have looked upon them as being concerned in the function of smell, while others believed that they assisted in respiration. No importance can be attached to either of these views. In all probability they serve as secondary resonating chambers for the voice. 2. Etiology.—Inflammation and suppuration in the nasal sinuses may arise in the course of certain acute affections, such as influenza, pneumonia, scarlet fever, measles, typhoid fever, diphtheria, smallpox, and cerebro-spinal menin- gitis. The inflammation may reach the sinus by direct extension from the nose, fauces, and nasopharynx, or the cavities may become in- volved through the blood stream in the course of a general systemic infection. E. Frankel's investigations have shown the frequency of sinus complications in croupous pneumonia, while the great importance of influenza as a causative factor has now been demonstrated beyond all dispute. There is no doubt that an actual increase in the number of cases of purulent sinus disease is due to the greater frequency and prevalence of the influenza epidemics. In the epidemic of 1890 Weich- selbaum found suppuration present in a large number of post-mortem examinations upon influenza patients, while Garel has given us a clinical record of a series of cases of acute inflammation of the maxillary and frontal sinuses which occurred during the epidemic of 1899-1900. In cases of acute coryza, in which there has been no reason to suspect an influenzal infection, sinus inflammation may complicate the " cold." Suppuration has also been ascribed by Weichselbaum to an attack of facial erysipelas. It is more reasonable, however, when these conditions are associated, to regard the erysipelas as secondary to the nasal discharge. Passing from these acute conditions, we find that suppuration in the sinuses is sometimes as- sociated with such chronic affections of the nose as syphilitic ulceration, benign and malignant growths. Tuberculous disease of the accessory cavities appears to be rare, although Neumayer and R(5thi have recorded two or three cases in which tubercle of the maxillary sinus occurred in association with, but secondary to, tubercle of the gums and nasal mucous membrane. Lapalle, who ex- amined the sinuses in 59 cadavera, in which death was due to pulmonary or meningeal