PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 407 The administration of salicylates, which in the acute articular rheumatism of adults are given with such marked beneficial results, seem to have no effect in arresting the inflammation, and may do harm if pushed. If the pain is severe and there is great restlessness and dyspnoea, opium or morphia may be employed with marked benefit. Digitalis and cardiac tonics of the same character should not be given during the acvite stage of pericarditis, but if stimulants are required, brandy, ammonia, ether, and strychnine or nux vomica may be given. Quinine given in an effervescing mixture with bicarbonate of soda or potash is the most generally satisfactory and useful medicine. The administration of iodide of potassium is ad- vocated, but is of doubtful service. Nothing in severe cases seems to arrest or exert any controlling influence in the course of cardiac inflammation in children on whom rheumatism has got a firm hold. It is, therefore, of importance that any indications of danger threatening the heart should be recognised as early as possible, and due precautions taken. If a suspicion of rheumatism is aroused by pains in the limbs or joints in a child who comes of a rheumatic stock, or who has previously suffered from rheumatism, the patient should be kept under observation and the heart examined from day to day. If rheumatic nodules are present danger to the heart is imminent, and the child should be carefully looked after and guarded from exposure to cold and exertion of any kind, while the heart should be examined, and the moi'ning and evening temperature and pulse- rate should be noted daily. Effusion. — If extensive eftusion into the pericardial sac takes place, its removal by paracentesis may become necessary, and if the symptoms are severe it should not be long delayed, as death from syncope is liable to occur. It is, however, frequently a very difficult matter to determine whether the increase of cardiac dulness and the symptoms of cardiac embarrassment are due to ett'usion or to cardiac dilatation, and not infrequently the dilated right ventricle has been punctured by accident in the absence of supposed eff"usion. The best site for paracentesis is in the fifth left intercostal space, about 1 inch or 1^ inches from the sternal margin. Some advocate that it should be made in the fifth right space or in the angle between the xiphoid cartilage and costal margins. A small aspirating needle should be used, and previous to its insertion an incision should be made through the skin down to the intercostal muscle, so that any bulging of the space can be noted and the needle introduced without force and in any direction required. The above description applies to the type of pericarditis which is met with in association with rheumatism, and it will be necessary here to briefly allude to the form it may assume in Bright's disease and tuberculosis. In Bright's disease pericarditis occurs most commonly as a complication of subacute parenchymatous nephritis or of the chronic interstitial variety. Statistics vary as to its frequency, from 14 to 3 per cent according to different authors. It is possible that this discrepancy may have arisen from classifying cases of hydropericardium and pericarditis due to intercurrent diseases, such as pneumonia and rheumatism, with those due to toxic in- fluences the direct result of Bright's disease. The onset of pericarditis in Bright's disease occurring, as it usually does, in debilitated subjects, may be very insidious and unattended by any marked symptoms of local reaction. There may be little or no rise of temperature, no prsecordial pain, and little beyond increase in the pulse-rate and slight exacerbation of pre-existing symptoms, such as dyspnoea and restlessness due to ureemia, to call attention to its presence. It may be accompanied by pleurisy, and it is often very difficult to dis- tinguish between a pleuro-pericardial rub and a true pericardial friction sound. It is important, therefore, that the heart should be examined as a matter of routine, or the onset of pericarditis may easily escape notice. The prognosis is always very grave, and the treatment must be directed to the primary disease. Tube7-cular pericarditis usually occurs as a secondary infection, in association with tubercu- losis of the lungs or of the bronchial or mediastinal glands. It may, however, be a primary aff'ection, and the only tubercular lesion, according to Virchow, Joffroy, Cornil, and others; but this is very rare. Tubercles on the pericardium are also present sometimes in acute miliary tuberculosis. Tubercular pericarditis may be acute or chronic. The former is most commonly due to direct invasion by an adjacent tubercular gland, and is usually attended by effusion. The pericardium may become thickened, or the effusion become purulent from infection by a caseating gland, so that the tubercular origin of the disease may escape notice without careful histological investigation. In the chronic variety the onset is insidious, and there is usually little or no effusion. The two layers of pericardium become thickened and adherent, and may contain caseous masses of recent tubercles. The history of the case and the physical signs will be those of chronic mediastinitis or adherent pericardium. Osier points out that tubercular pericarditis often escapes notice during life owing to its insidious nature, and is frequently not detected post-mortem, as the thickened and adherent