NOSE—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 91 The obstruction in the nostrils can be over- come by mechanical and surgical measures. Henpuye.—The peculiar nature of this disease, and the fact that very little was known as to its nature, led Dr. Albert J. Chalmers to make the inquiries which were embodied in a report,^ and it is upon this report that the following account is based:— Henpuye, or dog-nose, is a disease frequently met with in the Gold Coast Colony, and in certain portions of its hinterland. The hideous deformity of the face which it causes is very striking to anyone who has lived in this part of West Africa. It is also known on the French Ivory Coast under the name of " goundu" or "anakhre," but "henpuye" is the native name (Appolonian) for the disease on the Gold Coast. Henpuye starts in a native of West Africa during, or soon after an attack of yaws, in which there is a history of the nasal mucous membrane being attacked, as a small bony swelling sym- metrically placed on either side of the nose. This swelling, which is generally oval, with the long axis directed downwards and outwards, is attached to the nasal bones, the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and also to the superior maxilla in the more advanced cases. It is pro- duced by the deposition of new bone under the periosteum on the external aspect of these bones, and grows slowly in all directions. It in no way affects the mouth or the orbital or nasal cavities in any case which the author has seen, and the nasal ducts are quite unaffected. Rarely the growth is asymmetrical, being situated only on one side of the nose. Pain in the nose, with the presence of a sore in that organ, are the symptoms complained of at the commencement of the disease ; later, headache is sometimes felt, and pain in the swelling during wet weather. As the growth becomes larger it seriously inter- feres with the sight by growing up in front of the eyes, and even hiding them, but it has not been seen to cause destruction of the eyeball. The growths may remain quite small, or may grow to be large lumps ; no case has been re- ported in which they break down or ulcerate. As regards the morbid anatomy, the perios- teum strips off readily, and under this is a thin shell of compact bone which appears somewhat rigid on the side toward the periosteum. The rest of the tumour consists of cancellous bone. The whole swelling cuts readily with bone- forceps, and consists of quite soft bone. On making microscopical preparations of the growths there were signs of ossification in membrane pro- ceeding under the periosteum, and the rest appeared like ordinary wide-meshed cancellous bone. The whole process appeared to be that of a slow " osteoplastic periostitis." Two views on the etiology of this disease have been brought forward up to the present time, ^ Report on "Henpuye" in the Gold Coast Colony: Lancet, January 6, 1900. Albert J. Chalmers. viz. (1) that the swellings are of a racial char- acter, and (2) that the process is started by the larva of some insect. With regard to the first, the disease is found in Ashantis, Grunshis, Fantees, Ahantas, the Ga people, etc., races quite different from one another, so that this view cannot be entertained. As to the second, there is no evidence which would support the idea that the disease was started by a larva. On the other hand, there is always the history of yaws, and of the tumour starting during the attack of yaws, i.e. during the period of eruption, or soon after. Then, again, the patients com- plain of pain in the nose, with in some cases distinct history of a sore, and sometimes dis- charge preceding the swelling. This might be due to some irritation or ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane by the yaws. 7. Postnasal Adenoid Growths Postnasal Growths— Etiology 91 Symptomatology .... 93 Prognosis ..... 94 Treatment ..... 95 Sufficient time has elapsed since Meyer of Copenhagen, in 1868, firet described^ the clinical importance of postnasal obstruction to enable us to estimate the true importance of the subject. During a period of twenty years, which represents the history of the subject in this country, the profession, sceptical in the first place, thanks to the exaggerations of the specialist, has grown of late over-enthusiastic for the removal of the so-called adenoid growths of the postnasal space ; while the general pub- lic have become so desirous that the benefit they see from these operations should be ex- tended to all children alike, that they are often disappointed when assured that no operation is required in this or that individual case. The operation for the removal of adenoids is so universally advocated now in suitable cases that it is the most frequent of all operations, and in another twenty-five years, it is to be hoped, every general practitioner in the country will consider its skilful performance as one of the first requirements in the family-doctor, and yet will not fall into the present danger of considering that every child would be the better for the operation. Indeed, owing to such ex- cess of zeal, we already see indications of the falling into disrepute of a procedure which is probably doing much in raising the general standard of health in the population. Accumulated experience has added but little to our knowledge of the etiology of the disease. We are all persuaded now that it is no new development or vicious manifestation of a de- generate age. Nevertheless the affection is more commonly observed in those individuals 1 Trans. Mcd.-Chir. Soc, 1870, vol. Iviii. p. 191.