192 OSPHY- (lumbar hernia), osphyomyelitis (inflammation of the lumbar part of the spinal cord). OSSa-gfen. — A proprietary preparation said to be a lime salt of bone marrow, recom- mended in cases of rickets ; dose, 30-60 grains. Ossein.—The organic base of bone, con- vertible into gelatin by boiling. Osseous.—Bony; e.g. the osseous meatus of the ear, the osseous labyrinth. Ossicle.—A small bone or ossiculum ; e.g. the auditory ossicles or small bones of the middle ear, the Wormian ossicles or epactal bones of the cranial sutures, etc. See Ear, Examination of {Tympanic Cavity); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration ; Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Hearing, Middle Ear). Ossiculectomy and Ossiculo- tomy.—Excision and incision of the auditory ossicles. Ossification. — Bone - formation. See Muscles, Diseases of {Inflammatory Disease, Myositis Ossificans); Physiology, Tissues {Bone, Development). Osteitis. — Inflammation of bone. See Bone, Diseases of {Bacterial and Trophic); Chest, Deformities op {Osteitis Deformans); Deformities {Bow-Legs); Head {Skull in Osteitis Deformans); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Ar- thritis ; Spine, Surgical Affections of {Osteitis Deformans) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Osteitis and Osteomyelitis) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Osteitis). OsteO-.—In compound words osteo- (Gr. ocrriov, a bone) means relating to or belonging to bone or a bone, e.g. the osteoc7-a7iiu7n or ossified cranium (as distinguished from the chrondrocranium). Osteoarthritis.—Inflammation of the bones entering into the composition of a joint. See Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis. See also Joints, Diseases of {Arthritis Deformans); and Osteo-Arthropathies. Osteo-Arthropathies. Osteopathies . . . . . .192 Arthropathies . . . . .192 Pulmonary Osteo-Arthropathy . .194 See also Acromegaly ; Deformities {Hallux Valgus); Hand {SJmpe in Pulmonary Osteo- Arthropathy); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Arthritis Deformans); Joints, Diseases of {Syphilitic Osteo-Arthritis); Joints, Diseases op {Arthritis Deforma7is); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Ar- thritis ; Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Arthritis Defoi-mans). The relationship between disorders of bones and affections of the nervous system was noted by Mitchell in 1831, but the condition was little studied until Charcot drew attention to it some years later. Trophic disorders, both of bones and joints, occur in varying degrees in several diseases of the nervous system, but notably in the course of locomotor ataxy, and the lesions occurring in this affection may be conveniently described as a general type of the disorder. The bones and joints may suff'er separately or together, and accordingly are termed osteo- pathies, arthropathies, and osteo-arthropathies. Osteopathies.—In locomotor ataxy changes frequently take place in the nutrition of the bones which cause them to fracture with the very slightest mechanical violence, or even spontaneously. The fracture is usually quite painless, but is often accompanied by considerable oedema of the neighbouring tissues ; occasionally lightning pains appear to be specially prevalent in the region before the bone fractures, but otherwise there are no premonitory symptoms. Union, which generally takes place with the usual rapidity of other fractures, is often accompanied by an excessive amount of callus—a fact which has been explained by the mechanical friction to which the painless ends of the fracture are apt to be subjected; marked deformity of the limb, due to displacement of the bones, is also another common sequel. The lower limbs are more frequently fractured than the upper, and women appear to suffer more often than men (Marie). Morbid Anatomy.—The bones are lighter than normal; to the naked eye they often have a worm-eaten appearance, and on section the medullary canal is found to be increased in size at the expense of the bone around it. There may be some irregular deposits of new bone taking place at the same time. Microscopically the Haversian canals are dilated, and absorption of bone is proceeding in their vicinity. Regnard has shown by chemical analysis that there is a decrease in the inorganic constituents of the bone, especially of the lime salts, and an increase in the organic constituents, especially fat. Arthropathies.—Trophic lesions of the joints as they occur in locomotor ataxy were fii'st described by Charcot, and hence they are frequently spoken of as "Charcot's joints." The onset of tabetic arthropathies is usually acute; the joint becomes distended with fluid in a few hours, and generally, though by no means constantly, there is no pain and no fever. The distension of the joint is often accompanied by swelling of the parts around, and movements of the limb are much impaired. In other instances the onset is more gradual, and extensive disorganisation of the joint may