PARALYSIS 271 muscles fail before the flexor, adductor, and in- ternal rotator muscles. The first difficulty noticed by a patient is usually a tendency for the toes to catch the ground and to become in- verted in walking, and from this the boots are worn down at the toes and on the outer side in a peculiar fashion. At a later stage the gait becomes character- istic : the patient walks upon the toes with the feet inturned, the knees approximated and slightly flexed, and the thighs adducted, in- ternally rotated, and slightly flexed, so that the body is carried forward. The difficulty in per- forming the abduction at the hip necessary for projection of the leg in walking is often aided by tilting of the pelvis alternately to the right and left with each step. In the upper extremities, when these are affected, the wrist and fingers tend to be semi- flexed, the elbow flexed, with the forearm carried across the chest, and the ai'm adducted to the side. Muscular rigidity appears pari passu with the loss of power, sometimes preponderatingly, so that patients attribute their voluntary incapacity to the stiff"ness. Slowness on effort and resist- ance to passive movements are its signs, and these are later added to by the occurrence of contractures and the production of characteristic positions of the limbs, which in time are rendered permanent by alterations in the bony and liga- mentous structures. The common position of the foot is known as pes cavus. In this de- formity the foot is dropped, and often inverted, the plantar arch is increased, and the toes are hyperextended, so that they frequently form a right angle with the dorsum of the foot. The foot, viewed from its inner side, shows a Z-shaped border. The knee is generally rigid in the ex- tended position, the rigidity suddenly lessening directly the knee is bent by passive movement —clasp-knife rigidity. Occasionally the rigidity persists equally in all the stages of passive flexion. In late stages, however, it is the rule for flexor spasm to preponderate at the knee and contrac- ture of the hamstrings to occur. At the hip flexor and adductor spasm preponderates, and frequently contracture occurs. Where spastic paraplegia exists in young children it is not uncommon for scoliosis or lordosis to occur. The position of the upper extremity is usually one of flexion and adduction at all joints. Only in the rarest cases is a " manus cavus " compar- able to "pes cavus" met with. The wrist is then flexed and the fingers hyperextended at all joints. Contracture is a structural permanent shorten- ing of the muscle. It is associated with defects of the pyramidal system, and is not to be ex- plained by either muscular paralysis and un- opposed action of antagonistic muscles, nor as a result of hypertonus, for both the latter may exist for years without contracture, and, con- versely, contracture regularly occurs where there is neither rigidity nor an appreciable degree of motor paralysis in Friedreich's disease, in which, however, the pyramidal tract defect is present. The increase of spasm by peripheral stimuli is a common feature of severe degrees of spastic paraplegia. The causes exciting these " reflex spasms" are often slight, a draught of air, a slight movement of the bed-clothing, or the touch of a cold finger being sufficient to pro- duce the most powerful spasms. In the lower extremities these are most frequently flexor in type. Such reflex flexor spasms appearing in the course of spastic paraplegia are of the gravest significance to the patient, for his disease, perhaps hitherto quite painless, becomes with their manifestation a most painful one; to the physician, for they yield to no treatment and mark an irrecoverable stage of disease (Gowers); to the nurse, for the sacral bedsore is almost inevitable, since the friction from the repeated sudden spasms cannot be avoided. In the abdominal muscles, etc., spasms, either constant or reflex, may very considerably em- barrass respiration. There is frequently some general wasting of the muscles in spastic paraplegia of long dura- tion ; but where reflex spasms occur it is said that the muscles involved may be even hyper- trophied. The electrical excitability is un- altered, the slight raising or lowering of Faradic excitability commonly met with being due to altered conditions of the conductivity of the skin and subcutaneous tissues resulting from the paraplegia. Sensory Ma7iifest<itio7is.—Subjective sensory phenomena occur frequently in spastic para- plegia, due to local disease of the spinal cord. Dull fixed pain in the back and a sense of constriction encircling the body, or of distention —the so-called girdle sensations—are common in both intra- and extra-medullary lesions. Severe and sudden pains radiating over the areas supplied by the nerve roots indicate implication of the nerve roots, and are in favour of a lesion involving the meninges. These are not produced by movement of the spinal column, though often increased by such movement. Sharp pain actually produced by movement is common where the paraplegia is secondary to disease of the vertebral column. Objective Sensory Manifestations.—Anaesthesia is distributed segmentally upon the body in local lesions {vide p. 280). As the result of pressure and of vascular disease it is usual for pain to be lost earliest, then temperature, then the muscle sense, and lastly touch. In lesions aff"ecting the central parts of the cord especially, such as syringomyelia, haematomyelia, and central myelitis, sensibility to pain, heat, and cold are lost first, and often out of all propor-