NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 30 the actual value of these various operations, especially in view of their comparative rarity in trunks other than the trigeminal, and of the different conditions for which they are performed. To the trigeminal nerve we shall again refer: with regard to all other cases we can only consider operation as tentative, and we can never be justified in promising permanent relief. Broadly speaking, Marshall estimates that 74 per cent of all cases of neuralgia are curable by operation. The method of operation to be adopted in the case of individual nerves must be briefly dealt with. The brachial plexus is exposed by an incision similar to that employed for ligature of the subclavian artery; its cords lie above that vessel, with the exception of the lowest cord which lies behind it; they can be readily isolated by blunt dissection, and then submitted, in- dividually or collectively, to traction by the fingers, which should not exceed a pull of 20 lbs. It is to be remembered that, in this region, too vigorous a stretching may tear the nerve-roots away from the spinal cord, their connection with which is less strong than is their inherent tenacity. The musculo-spiral nerve is readily exposed to the outer side of the lower end of the humerus. The incision lies immediately in- ternal to the upper part of the belly of the supinator longus, and divides the deep fascia, avoiding the cephalic vein. The supinator longus and radial extensors are now drawn well outwards, when the nerve is found lying deeply between the supinator longus and the brachialis anticus. The median nerve is exposed at the wrist by a vertical incision immediately external to the palmaris longus tendon: its accompanying artery is apt to be divided along with the nerve, and, if ligatured, care must be taken to avoid inclusion of any nerve-fibres in the loop. The same nerve can be reached in the middle of the upper arm where it crosses the brachial artery. For the radial nerve a vertical incision may be made internally to the lower end of the tendon of the supinator radii longus : the nerve here lies close to, or rather beneath, the tendon, and well away from the radial artery. It can also be readily found on the back of the wrist after its emergence from beneath the supinator longus tendon. The ulnar nerve lies close to the inner side of the ulnar artery at the wrist, and is exposed by an operation similar to that employed for liga- ture of the vessel. At the elbow it is readily found behind the internal condyle where it can be felt through the unbroken skin. The great sciatic nerve is exposed in the upper part of the thigh by a vertical incision, com- mencing below the folds of the buttock, and lying between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, but half an inch nearer to the latter ; the biceps muscle is drawn inwards, and the nerve found lying beneath it; the finger forms the best hook for stretching purposes, and a pull of 30 or 40 lbs. may be employed. The sciatic nerve can, however, be conveniently stretched by the bloodless method: in this case, the patient being fully ansesthetised, the hip is forcibly flexed, the knee extended, the ankle dorsiflexed, and the toes ex- tended : this forced position is maintained for some ten minutes, during which time the course of the nerve is thoroughly kneaded: the only danger of the operation lies in the possibility of injury to an atheromatous popliteal artery. Trigemitial Neuralgia. — The general prin- ciples of the treatment of neuralgia are ap- plicable to the trigeminal as to other nerves. Special consideration is required both because the branches of the fifth cranial nerve are operated upon far more frequently than are all other trunks, and because the fact that these branches are almost entirely sensory^ allows to the surgeon a latitude which he does not possess elsewhere. The cases most suitable for operation are those of true neuralgia, in which no extraneous cause for pain can be discovered, and thus hys- terical and anaemic patients, the sufferers from gout, malaria, syphilis, and rheumatism, and those with visceral diseases which may produce reflex pains, should generally be excluded. Many cases originate in some local disease, such as a carious tooth, but become persistent even after removal of the cause. Operations upon the nerves are then often called for and are of value. In others, again, no cause is discover- able, but in these, and especially in the rare type of epileptiform neuralgia, operation should certainly be adopted if medical treatment has failed to relieve. The operation to be selected will depend upon the nature of the case. Simple nerve section is almost valueless. Excision of a portion of the fibres and stretching have strong advocates. Avulsion combines the advantages of both methods, and is therefore strongly recom- mended for all cases other than those in which the Gasserian ganglion must be excised. Avul- sion should be combined with removal of any suspected source of primary irritation. In a very large number of cases it will appear that the disease has originated in dental caries, in- flammation around a buried tooth stump, or other cause of alveolar ostitis. In many of these the removal of the primary focus will cure the neuralgia, but in many others it will not. We have thus a double factor—the initi- ating alveolar disease, and the secondary central nervous changes. It is usually advised to treat the former only, and operate upon the afferent nerve later if cure is not effected; but in severe cases it is safer to perform both operations