202 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE testis and the abnormal descent of the ovary are considered by Lockwood, Klaatsch, and W. M'A. Eccles. Wiart and others believe that hernia of the tnbe precedes that of the ovary {see " Fallopian Tubes, Diseases of"); but Kossmann has collected six cases of in- guinal ovarian hernia, where the tube had not entered the sac. Though congenital inguinal hernia of a genuine ovary has never been authenticated, acquired hernia not rarely develops a few months after birth. It is perfectly reducible at first, but speedily becomes irreducible. Several successful operations have been performed on infants. The ovary was irreducible in Pinkerton's case (child sixteen months), cystic in Beckett's (eleven weeks, the youngest case), and strangulated in Pollard's (three months) and Hooper May's (seven months). But the ovary was not examined in any of these cases, and it must be remembered that a fimbriated tube has been found associated with a genital gland which the microscope proved to be a testicle. In the adult a well- developed herniated ovary swells and becomes tender at the period. Conception may occur in a woman subject for years to double inguinal hernia (Beigel), and Widerstein found an ovary with a gravid tube in a left inguinal hernia (see Kossmann). Hyper/emia, Interstitial HiEMORRHAGE, HEMATOMA, Apoplexy. — In febrile diseases hyperaemia of the ovary is often detected after death. Diffuse hsemorrhage is a common result, the stroma of the ovary being more or less soaked in blood, a change marked in Asiatic cholera, causing a choleraic pseudocatamenial flow. These haemorrhages are also seen in cases of typhoid fever and less frequently in the exanthemata, in bad burns, and phosphorus poisoning, and from purely mechanical causes, as twisting of the pedicle (Erfurth, Martin). Htematoma is not rare in follicular hypertrophy, to be described under chronic oophoritis. As the clot is found decolorised in some of the follicles, and more or less recent in others, the process must be chronic. The author has described a case of acute apoplexy of the ovary attended with violent pain and swelling of the organ, which was removed five months later, and found to contain a large decolorised clot communicating with a hypertrophied corpus luteum. Rupture of the ovary in acute apoplexy and rapid death from haemorrhage has been reported, but not recently, and Bland- Sutton reasonably suspects that the ruptured structure was a gravid tube. Blood Concretions in the Ovary are un- common, and do not seem to be the result of inflammation nor the usual consequence of haematoma or apoplexy of the ovary. Most likely, however, they are to be traced to the latter condition. Hector Mackenzie and the author have each described a case, both of which occurred in patients with uterine myoma. In the author's specimen, preserved in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the concretions lay in a cyst full of blood an inch and a half in diameter in the right ovary. Bland-Sutton found over a hundred similar concretions in an ovarian cyst full of blood through twisting of the pedicle. Inflammation op Ovary : Oophoritis.—The ovary is often the seat of inflammation. In such a case the tube and adjacent peritoneum are nearly always involved. Hence oophoritis is inextricably mixed tip with perimetritis and salpingitis, which must be studied and considered in association with the former disease. But an inflamed ovary is a distinct entity, often detected on palpation and often exposed at operation. It exhibits the characteristic appearances of in- flammation known to the pathologist. Causes. — Living authorities reject the old idea that chills cause oophoritis. A pure chill, from sitting in damp boots, for instance, may assuredly aggravate a chronic attack. No doubt this disease is, as a rule, due to sepsis, especially puerperal, to gonorrhoea, or to tubercle. Classification.—Excluding tubercular disease, oophoritis is most conveniently classified after Martin and Orthmann's principles. Acute oophoritis usually consists in free small- celled infiltration into the stroma of the ovary ("interstitial" form), but the follicles may be involved ("general " form). This disease tends to subside, to end in suppuration, or, most frequently, if neglected, to pass into the chronic form. When symptoms of perimetritis are marked the diagnosis of acute inflammation of the ovary is often easy. The ovary is distinctly swollen and very tender. The longer the in- flammatory symptoms have lasted, and the more the ovary has become adherent to adjacent structures, the harder will diagnosis become. As to treatment., a recently inflamed ovary, still movable, should never be removed. Under the usual treatment suitable for acute perimetritis, it will soon recover provided that adjacent structures be not gravely involved. Chronic oophoritis is extremely common and hardly ever uncomplicated. As in the acute form, it may be " interstitial," or the follicles may be involved ("general" form). The chronic inflammatory process is usually destructive to the follicles, whilst great hypertrophy of the stroma occurs, not to be mistaken for fibroma. The vessels in the hilum become dilated. In- stead of this false " fibroma" developing, the stroma may atrophy, whilst the follicles, thickened and unable to rupture, become dropsical. This is the condition known as " follicular hypertrophy " or " small cystic de- generation." A few proportionately very big cysts fill a small ovar3^ The interest of this second form of chronic oophoritis lies in the difficulty of diagnosing it from early cystoma