NOTOMELUS 127 Notomelus.—A teratological type of the disomata in which a supernumerary limb is attached to the back of the autosite. NotomyelitiS. — Inflammation of the spinal cord. Novaspirin.—The methylene citric acid ester of salicylic acid, which forms a white, slightly acid powder, easily dissolved in alcohol; it has been used as a substitute for aspirin in rheumatism, neuralgia, and influenza ; the dose is 10 to 15 grains. NOVOCa.ine.—A local anaesthetic; chemi- cally, it is an amino-alcohol, being the hydro- chloride of ^-aminobenzoyl-diethylaminoethanol; it is readily soluble in water. It is claimed for it that it has no irritating action, that it is much less toxic than cocaine, and that, in normal doses, it does not affect the circulation or respiration and produces no mydriasis; it may be combined with suprarenin borate. It has a large field of usefulness in operative procedures where general ausesthesia is not de- sirable, as in operations on the eye and throat (5 per cent to 10 per cent solutions being used) and in minor surgery (e.g. curettage, opera- tions on piles, tooth stopping, when a 2 per cent solution may be injected hypodermically) ; for injection into the spinal canal to produce lumbar anaesthesia, a 5 per cent solution is usually employed. Nubecula,.—Cloudiness or opacity of the cornea. See Cornea {Opacities). Nubility.—The state of sexual develop- ment when child-bearing may be carried through with safety to both mother and child ; it is not synonymous with puberty, with may be estab- lished at the age of fourteen or fifteen years, whilst the period of nubility is usually fixed at twenty or twenty-one. See Menstruation and ITS Disorders {Puberty). Nuchal.—Relating to the nucha or nape of the neck, e.g. nuchalgia, or pain in the back of the head and neck. Nuck, Canal of.—The peritoneum covering the round ligament of the uterus can sometimes be traced as a distinct pouch or diverticulum as far as the inguinal canal, and the cavity of this pouch has been called the canal of Nuck; its presence has an influence on the occurrence of inguinal hernia in the female. See Hernia {Oblique Inguinal Hernia depending upon Congenital Anomalies). Nuclear.—Relating to the nucleus. Nuclease.—A bacteriolytic enzyme hav- ing the power of digesting the nucleoproteids of bacteria. Nucleic Acid. See Gout (Urine in Gout); Physiology, Cell {Nucleus, Mitosis). Nuclein.—A conjugated protein which can be split up into a protein part and nucleic acid. The term nuclein is usually confined to the substances in which the amount of nucleic acid is large in proportion to the protein; the others, in which the protein is predominant, being termed nucleo-albumin. The formula of nuclein is CggH^gNpPgOog. See Gout {Urine in Gout); Temperature {Fever after Injection of Nuclein); Uric Acid {Formation and Excretion, Nucleins in Diet). NucleO-. — In compound words micleo- signifies relating to the nucleus or to nuclein. Nucleo-Albumin. See Nuclein. NuCleO-Histone. — A protein consist- ing of nuclein and histone, found in leucocytes, and regarded as the cause of the liquid state of the blood. See Enzymes {Fibroin Ferment), Physiology, Protoplasm {Histories). Nucleolus. — The refractile body seen within the nucleus of a cell. See Physiology, Cell {Nucleus, Sti-ucture). Nucleon.—Phospho-carnic acid or para- nucleon, the supposed source of muscle energy. Nucleoplasm.—The protoplasm of the nucleus, or chromatin. Nucleoproteids. See Physiology, Protoplasm (Conjugated Proteins). Nucleus. — The central part of a cell {see Physiology, Cell, Nucleus), also a mass of grey matter of the nervous system serving as the deep origin of a nerve or having a distinct function ; e.g. the nucleus of Deiters in the pons Varolii, the nucleus cuneatus of the medulla, the nucleus dentatus of the cerebellum, and the nucleus accessorius of the medulla. See Brain, Physiology of (Cerebellum and its Peduncles); Physiology, Neuro-muscular Mechanism {Me- dulla Oblongata). Nuel'S Space.—The space between the outer rods of Corti and the adjoining row of hair cells in the organ of Corti. Nuerine. See Intestines, Diseases op {Enteritis, Exciting Causes, Alkaloids from De- composition of Meat). Nuhn'S Gland.—A muciparous gland situated in the middle line near the tip of the tongue, and opening by several ducts on its lower surface; Blandin's gland. Nuisances.—Conditions which may be dangerous or injurious to the public health of a town or district, e.g. privies, cesspools, byres,