PALATE 223 wards and backwards in the posterior pillar of the fauces and spreads out into the side of the pharynx and along the posterior border of the thyroid cartilages. Action. — It elevates the larynx and approximates the posterior pillar of the fauces. fi^The palatoglossus blends with its fellow of the opposite side on the anterior surface of the Fig. 5.—Complete unilateral FiG. 6.—Simple fissure of the cleft palate without alveolar palate. (Mason.) deficiency. The vomer is attached to the left palatal segment. (Mason.) soft palate, passes down in the anterior pillar of the fauces, and is inserted into the side of the tongue. Action.—It draws the soft palate downwards and elevates the side and the base of the tongue. The levator palati arises from the under surface of the petrous bone and from the lower border of the Eustachian tube, passes down- wards, and is inserted into the median raphe between the two layers of the palato-glossus. Action. — It elevates the soft palate and brings it in contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx. The tensor palati arises from the sca- phoid fossa of the in- ternal pterygoid plate and from the Eusta- chian tube. It ends in a tendon which is FIG. 7.-Complete cleft palate and reflected rOUnd the double alveolar hare-lip, simu- hamular prOCeSS, and lating a double lateral cleft due • ;„c.£iv.fQ<1 ;»-.f^ fV.a to the vomer being seen tree inserteu into me between the palatal segments, ridge on the under (Mason.) Surface of the palate bone and into the anterior surface of the soft palate. Action.—It renders the soft palate tense, and opens the Eustachian tube during deglutition. The azygos uvulce arises from the posterior nasal spine and descends into the uvula. Action. —It elevates and shortens the uvula. The mucous membrane on the posterior sur- face of the soft palate is thin and continuous with that of the nose; on the anterior surface it is thick and contains mucous glands. The blood - supple/ is derived from the pos- terior palatine, the ascending palatine, and the ascending pharyngeal arteries. The Nerve-8upply.—Sensory. Glosso-pharyn- geal fibres of superior laryngeal branch of vagus. Motor.—N. Accessorius. Glosso-pharyngeal. Cleft Palate.—Acquired defects are described tinder Diseases of the Palate. The manner in which the palate is developed determines the variety of the cleft. The palatal processes grow inwards and unite in the middle line from before backwards, the vomer joins the hard palate from above, the intermaxillary bone terminates at the anterior palatine-canal. Extent.—-The cleft may involve merely the soft palate, and vary in degree from little more than a bifided uvula to a complete fissure of the velum. The entire soft palate may be in- volved, and the hard fissured in part or up to the anterior palatine canal. In the severe forms the cleft extends beyond the palatal processes, and is complicated by the presence of a unilateral or double hare-lip. Appearances.—Usually the cleft is mesial, or it may appear to be unilateral in consequence of the union of one segment, generally the right, with the medium septum; in these cases there is often a left-sided hare-lip. The vomer, if well developed, may project between the palatal processes, and the cleft appears to be double. When the fissure ex- tends beyond the palatal processes it diverges at the anterior palatine canal to pass forward through the sutures of the intermaxillary bone, usually between the endognathion and meso- gnathion. The width of the cleft varies greatly; in some cases the segments of the hard palate are more or less horizontal, in others they may run almost vertically upwards. In addition to those described above, other congenital defects are occasionally met with in the palate. The deformity may be limited entirely to the anterior part of the hard palate with or without an associated alveolar cleft; it may exist as an oval defect at the junction of the hard and soft palate, in the hard or in the soft palate only, or the continuity of a cleft may be interrupted by a bridge of tissue. Sometimes one or two vertical clefts occur in the anterior pillar of the fauces near where it joins the tongue. Effects.—The results of cleft palate have to be considered in their relations to nutrition, to the mucous membrane, and to speech. As regards nutrition, an infant with a well- marked palatal deficiency is unable to suck, swallowing is interfered with, fluids are apt to regui'gitate through the nose; therefore, unless the child be carefully fed, its nutrition becomes