PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 567 a group of muscles may throw them into firm contraction. The individual becomes a reflex machine even as regards the cerebral arcs, and each stimulus is followed by an immediate reaction. The power of suggestion is exag- gerated. If a hypnotised person is told that he sees anything he acts at once as if he did actually see it. 5. Localisation of Functions.—The question must next be considered whether special parts of the brain are more especially connected with its three great functions— A. The reception of stimuli. B. The storing of effects, and the associating of present stimuli with these stored impressions. C. The production of the resulting actions. A. Reception of Stimuli. — In investigating the existence of special mechanisms for this purpose, several methods of inquiry are available. \st. By removing or stimulat- ing parts of the brain in the lower animals and studying the results. ^nd. By observations during life on the sensations or absence of sensations in patients suffering from disease of the brain, and the determination of the seat of the lesion after death. 3rc?. By the histological study of the ici?umb^. different parts of the cortex cerebri. ith. By the embryological study of the development of the myeline sheaths of the various bundles of nerve fibres. \st. Sensations are the usual accom- paniment of the activity of the receiving mechanism. But in the lower animals it is not possible to have a direct expression of whether sensations are experienced or not, and, therefore, in determining whether removal of any part of the brain has taken away the power of receiving impressions, we have to depend on the absence of the usual modes of response to any given stimulus. But the absence of the usual response may mean, not that the receiving mechanism is destroyed, but either that the reacting mechanism is out of action or that the channels of conduction have been interfered with. {See Fig. 106.) Thus, if light be flashed in the eye of a monkey, it responds by glancing towards the source of illumination ; and if these movements are absent this may be due (1) to loss of re- ceiving mechanism, to (2) loss of the mechanism causing the movements, or (3) to interruption of the channels between them. Again, it is quite possible that, after removing the receiving mechanism in the cerebrum, ex- ternal stimuli may lead to the usual response by acting through lower reflex arcs (Fig. 106). If, for instance, we suppose the receiving part of the cerebrum connected with the reception of tactile impressions entirely destroyed, scratch- ing the sole of the foot may still cause the leg to be drawn up, just as if a sensation had been experienced. Here, although the upper arc is out of action, the lower arc still acts. In the lower animals, stimulation of a part of the brain, if it be connected with the recep- tion of impressions, may cause the series of movements which naturally follow such an im- pression. But these movements may also be caused by directly stimulating the reacting mechanism. When, however, removal of a part of the brain causes no loss of power of move- ment, and yet prevents a stimulus from causing its natural response, it is justifiable to conclude that that part of the brain is connected with reception. 2nd. In man, the chief difficulty of obtaining information is in finding cases where only a limited part of the brain is affected. But such cases have been observed. Tumours of the Ear- ..- , - / EyeUd / cuiaure afja,* gjOcCtscentraUa. I'IG. 107.—Left hemisphere of brain of chimpanzee to show the results of stimulating different parts. The sulcus centralis is the fissure of Rolando. (BYom Grlinbaum and Slierrington.) inner aspect of an occipital lobe, for instance, have been found to be associated with loss of visual sensations without loss of muscular power, and thus the conclusion has been drawn that this part of the occipital lobe is the receiving mechanism for stimuli from the eyes. 3rc?. When it has been found possible to assign a definite function to any area of the cortex, the extent and limits of the area may be determined by the extent and distribution of the particular character of the arrangement and structure of the nerve cells. ^th. Flechsig has found that bands of fibres going to certain parts of the cortex get their medullary sheaths earlier than others, and that the fibres to each part of the cortex become medullated at a definite date. The areas, the fibres of which first get their sheath, he calls the primary projection areas, and they corre- spond very closely with the receiving areas determined by other methods (Figs. 108a and 108b).