505 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM to a muscle make it contract before killing it, while others kill it at once. Among the former may be mentioned dilute mineral acids and metallic salts. 'ind. A sudden mechanical change such as may be produced by pinching, tearing, or strik- ing the muscle will cause it to contract. Zrd. Any sudden change of temperature, either heating or cooling, stimulates muscle. A slow change of temperature has little or no effect. Every muscle, however, passes into a state of contraction, heat stiffening, when a suffi- ciently high temperature to coagulate its protein constituents is reached. This, however, is not a true living contraction. 4:th. Muscle may also be made to contract by any sudden change in an electric current passed through it, whether the current be suddenly allowed to pass into it or suddenly cut out of it, or whether it is suddenly made stronger or weaker. This method of stimulating muscle is con- stantly used in medicine. It is a matter of no importance how the electricity is procured, but most usually it is obtained either— \st. Directly from a galvanic battery or electric main; or '2nd. From an induction coil. If a galvanic battery or current from the main be used—(1) On making (closing) the current, and upon breaking (opening) the cur- rent, a contraction resvilts. While the current is flowing through the muscle, the muscle usually remains at rest; but if the current is suddenly increased in strength or suddenly diminished in strength, the muscle at once contracts. With strong currents a sustained contraction—gal vanotonus—may persist while the current flows. It is the suddenness in the variation of the strength of the current rather than its absolute strength which is the factor in stimulating, as may be shown by inserting some form of rheo- nome into the circuit by which the current may be either slowly or rapidly varied. (2) If a current be made weaker and weaker, breaking ceases to cause a contraction, while making still produces it. That is, the stimulus on making is stronger than that on breaking. (3) The two poles do not produce the same effect. The negative pole or kathode—that com- ing from the zinc plate of the battery—causes contraction of the muscle on closing ; while the positive pole or anode causes contraction at open- ing. This may be summarised as follows ;— 1. Contraction on closing; contraction on opening. 2. Closing contraction stronger than opening- contraction. 3. Contraction at kathode on closing, at anode on opening. 1. C.C • CO 2. CC>CO 3. CKC CAO How can these facts be explained 1 Electrotonus.—A study of the influence of the current on the muscle while it is passing through it throws important light on this point. While the current simply flows through the muscle no contraction is produced, but the excitability is profoundly modified. Round the kathode it becomes easily stimu- lated, while round the anode or positive pole it becomes less easily stimulated. This may be expressed by saying that the part of the muscle under the influence of the kathode is in a state of katelectrotouus, of increased excitability or of more unstable equilibrium, while the part of the muscle under the influence of the anode is in a state of anelecArotomis, of decreased excit- ability or of more stable equilibrium. Now it is well known that any sudden disturbance of the equilibrium or balance of a series of bodies is apt to cause them to fall asunder. For instance, if from a house of cards one card is suddenly drawn out, the whole structure passes into a condition of unstable equilibrium and is apt to fall to pieces. So with a muscle : if it be suddenly made unstable, as at the kathode on closing, a breaking down occurs and a contrac- tion results. On the other hand, suppose a house of cards is built and made extra stable by introducing some additional cards at the foundation, then if these cards are suddenly withdrawn the chances are that the house falls to bits. So with a muscle : when the current is opened the removal of the state of increased stability at the positive pole may cause a break- ing down and produce the anodal opening contraction. The study of electrotonus thus explains why any sudden change in the flow of electricity through a muscle stimulates it. It further explains why the stimulation and contraction start from the kathode on closing and from the anode on opening; and why the closing con- traction is stronger than the opening, since the sudden production of a condition of actual instability must act more powerfully than the simple sudden removal of a condition of increased stability. This law of Polar Excitation, while it applies to muscle and nerve, does not apply to all pro- toplasm. Thus amoeba shows contraction at the anode and expansion at the kathode when a galvanic current is passed through it. When the galvanic current is used to stimulate muscles through the skin in man or in other living animals, the different action of the two poles is not so marked as in the excised muscle of the frog, because the current, passing through the skin above the muscle to enter the body, flows not along but rather across the muscle, and thus, under each pole applied to the skin there is on one side of the inuscle the effect of an entering current—anode—and on the other, of a leaving current—hathode (Fig. 18). Thus the