PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 507 these fibrils chiefly shorten when they are thickest—in the dim band. At the same time, by the contraction of the fibrils in the clear band, adjacent dim bands may be supposed to be pvilled nearer to one another, and to cast a shadow over the clear band. That no actual chemical change takes place in either band seems to be indicated by the facts that they retain their reaction to polarised light and stain- ing reagents. Usually the contrac- tion of a muscle occurs simultaneously in all the Fia. 21.—Contraction of skeie- fibres. This is because tal muscle—relaxed above, „, . contracted below. 4 is a a nerve fibre passes to fS™^'sh*o'^s&li" ^^jy fibre, ing of the clear band ; and and Sets all in action C shows the absence of any j.„„„iv,«„ WTU^„ alteration in the influence together. When, aS of the two bands on polar- sometimes occurs in dis- ised light. ,, , ease, the nervous mech- anism acts abnormally, the muscular fibres may not all act at once, and a peculiar fibrillar twitching of the muscle may be produced. If the muscle be directly stimulated at any point, the contraction starts from that point found to vary much according to the kind of muscle and the condition of the muscle. In the striped muscular fibres of a frog in good condition it travels at something over three inet7'es per second. When the muscle is in bad condition the wave passes more slowly, and in an exhausted muscle it may remain at the point of stimulation. The cause of the propagation of this wave is simply the continuity of the muscle fibres. The fibres stimulated are set in action, and the evolution of energy in these stimulates the adjacent fibres, and so the contraction passes along the muscle as a flame passes down a trail of gunpowder. Contraction of muscle as a whole may best be studied under the following heads:— \st. The course of contraction. 2nd. The extent of contraction. ?>rd. The force of contraction. Is*. Course of Co7itraction (Fig. 22). — By attaching the muscle, M, to a lever, L, and allowing the point of the lever to mark upon some moving surface, a magnified record of the shortening of the muscle when stimulated may be obtained. A revolving cylinder covered with a smoke- Fia. 22.—A, Method of recording muscular contraction. B, Key to parts of apparatus. M, Muscle attached to crank lever L ; p.c, primary circuit, and s.c, secondary circuit of an induction coil witli short circuiting key, k', in secondary circuit; B, galvanic cell, and k, a mercury key for closing and opening the primary circuit; T.M., a lever moved by an electro-magnet placed in the primary circuit and marking the moment of stimulation. In A, a tuning fork beating 100 times per second is shown recording its vibration on the di um. and passes as a wave of contraction outwards along the fibres. This may be seen by sharply percussing the fibres of the pectoralis major in the chest of an emaciated individual. The rate at which the wave of contraction travels is ascertained by finding how long it takes to pass between any two points at a known distance from one another. Its velocity is blackened, glazed paper is frequently used for this purpose, and to stimulate and mark the moment of stimulation an induction coil, p.c, s.c, with an electro-magnetic marker, T.M., introduced in the primary circuit, may be employed. To find the duration of the contraction, a tuning fork, vibrating 100 times per second.