465 PHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE suddenly irritated by the presence of something hard and rough in the food. Local inflamma- tory conditions and hysteria may be predisposing causes. In some individuals, especially neurotic females, the spasms may be readily excited and of frequent occurrence, and, coming on without warning, may cause the sudden ejection of food from the mouth, or retching until the source of irritation is removed. The condition is thus an annoyance to the patient and her friends. She may in consequence be compelled to masticate with undue care, to avoid certain articles of diet, and even to eat alone. Clonic spasm of the palate, or pharyngeal nystagmus, is a rare affection in which, at vary- ing intervals, the soft palate is rhythmically drawn upwards against the pharyngeal wall and then relaxed. This movement is due chiefly to the action of the levator palati, and causes a clicking sound. It may occur as often as a hundred and sixty times a minute {Pppenheim). Bond records a case in which the back of the pharynx moved rhythmically to the left, and the left side of the soft palate was drawn up. In a case of Seifert's there were in addi- tion similar movements of the facial muscles. Spencer has seen nystagmus-like movements of the pharynx and larynx associated with nystagmus of the eyes. Lack places cases of this nature in two groups:—1. Those in which the soft palate is aff'ected, the movements being apparently excited reflexly. 2. Those in which the pharyngeal and laryngeal movements are presumably due to severe nervous lesions. The treatment of these spasmodic contractions resolves itself into the removal of all sources of irritation in the upper air tract, e.g. nasal obstruction, hypertrophic pharyngitis, etc. A condition as nearly normal as possible having been established, hygienic and dietetic measures, together with nervine tonics and sedatives, e.g. valerianates, or ammonio-citrate of iron with bromides, should be employed, while the patient exercises the volition to control the abnormal movements. Paralysis of the Soft Palate.—Diseases involv- ing the root or trunk of the spinal accessory may affect the innervation of the soft palate. When of central origin, neighbouring nuclei may be implicated, so that the palatal condition may be accompanied by defective movements in the tongue, larynx, sterno-mastoid, and trapezius. Paralysis of the palate alone is almost always due to diphtheria. Bosworth holds, however, that this paralysis does not necessarily follow a local affection, but may result from a general blood condition; while Garel has described an intermittent paresis which he attributes to neurasthenia. The paralysis may be unilateral or bilateral. When complete, the symptoms are charactei'istic. The speech is nasal and open (rhinolalia aperta). Food is apt to pass into the nose, and liquids VOL. VII may flow through it. It is doubtful whether this symptom is not due to a concurrent paralysis of the superior constrictor. The soft palate is found on examination to remain motionless during phonation and when probed. If the paralysis is unilateral the affected half hangs lower, the corresponding faucial arch is wider and less curved, the tip of the uvula may incline to the sound side, and on phonation the deficient movement of the paralysed half is strikingly apparent. Paralysis of the constrictors is often associated with that of the soft palate. The former con- dition is recognised by the absence of wrinkling of the mucous membrane on one or both halves of the posterior wall of the pharynx during retching. Food tends to pass into the nose, and, if the lower pharynx is involved, becomes lodged about the epiglottis. If due to a central lesion, the treatment will depend upon its nature. If diphtheritic, good results may be obtained by the local application of the Faradic current, together with strychnine, hypophosphites, or iron internally. Acute Pharyngitis A. Acute Pharyngitis— Definition .... . 465 Etiology ..... . 465 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . 466 Symptoms .... . 466 Prognosis .... . 466 Treatment .... . 466 Septic Inflammations . 467 Symj)toms .... . 467 Diagnosis .... . 467 Prognosis .... . 468 Treatment .... . 468 Herpes of Pharynx . . 468 Definition.—An acute inflammatory affection of the pharynx, in which the fauces, soft palate, and neighbouring regions are generally more or less involved. Etiology.—Four causes of acute pharyngitis may be recognised. 1. Idiopathic, resulting from exposure to cold, or sudden changes of temperature. As epidemics of the affection sometimes occur, associated with tonsillitis and constitutional symptoms, it is highly probable that a micro- bial element is the real exciting cause. 2. Toxic, " dependent on gouty or rheumatic conditions, or the action of various drugs, e.g. antimony, mercury, iodide of potash, and the sympathetic pharyngitis of various exanthemata, such as measles, smallpox, scarlatina, typhoid and typhus fever" (W. Williams). To these may be added the acute pharyngitis seen as an early syphilitic manifestation. 3. Septic, including erysipelas of the pharynx, "hospital throat," acute phlegmon, etc. 4. Traumatic, resulting from injury from 30