NEUROSES, OCCUPATION 49 have also been met with. Weakness without spasm of the particular movements involved may be rarely met with, and thus Gowers distinguishes four forms, the spastic, tremulous, neuralgic, and paralytic, though almost invari- ably two or more of these are combined. In a case of old-standing writer's cramp, weakness in addition to spasm and pain may extend to other movements, though in early and typical cases of the disease no weakness whatever of the muscles involved in the writing spasm can be detected, except in the particular movements of manipulating the pen. These muscles are especially the opponens and abductor poUicis and the first and second dorsal interossei. The electrical reactions of these muscles usually show no change early in the course of the aiTection, though later on, at first hyperexcita- bility to both currents, followed by slight diminution of reaction to both faradism and galvanism, and slight sluggishness of contraction may be noticed. Later still, some wasting of the affected muscles is sometimes seen, though any marked wasting is strongly suggestive of some organic disease such as neuritis or polio- myelitis. The disease in its course shows a marked tendency to gradual spread and increase of the symptoms so long as the faulty method of writing is persisted in, and especially if prolonged spells of writing have to be done. Even correction of the mode of writing and altering the pose of arm and the shape of the pen are usually insufficient to effect a cure unless the cardinal point of rest is also assured. If writing with the left hand be essayed as a means of resting the right hand, the spasm may in time spread to the left side, or other movements may develop spasm, such as in playing the piano or in sewing. Other Occupation Neuroses. —• Pianoforte players are apt to develop cramp in the exten- sors of the wrist and fingers from the somewhat strained position taught in some schools. Violin players may develop cramp in either the bow hand, or in the flexors of the left wrist and fingers. Telegraphist's cramp is rare, and occurs only in users of the Morse instrument, from the repeated flexion and extension of the finger required to depress the key in marking the dots and dashes. Haircutter's cramp I have met only one example of, and inquiries amongst the operatives in large hairdressing saloons have always elicited the reply that it is imknown. Ballet-dancers get cramp in the gastrocnemius and long flexors of the toes, from the great strain in keeping the weight of the body poised for long periods on the points of the toes. Cramp of the flexors of the wrist and thenar muscles I have met with in a gentleman devoted to piquet, from the constant sustained efl'ort in holding the cards fanwise in the left hand. Miner's and mountaineer's nystagmus is a peculiar affection produced by the constant VOL. VII strained position of the eyes, as in coal-miners who have to lie on one side in holing out the coal, necessitating the eyes being constantly directed to one side. The predominant symp- tom in these cases is not spasm of the eye muscles, but tremor or inco-ordination, which may be so violent when the eyes are turned in the direction in which the eyes were originally strained, as to cause objects to dance before the patient's eyes. Hammerman's cramp, smith's palsy, or liephsestic hemiplegia, as it was origin- ally named by Dr. Frank-Smith in 1869, occurs in men who are constantly wielding hammers varying in weight from two to seven pounds, forgemen and nailmakers. Since there must be many thousand recurring contractions of the shoulder and arm muscles daily in these men, as they work by piecework, it is easily conceivable that a fatigue cramp analogous to writer's cramp might be set up. Most of the recorded cases, however, are distinct cases of hemiplegia, of sudden onset, and undoubtedly due to an actual brain lesion. Some are more typical, with gradual onset, the arm being first held close to the side, so as to fix the scapula and rest the serratus magnus. All the usual charac- teristic symptoms may be met with—spasm, pain, tremor, and weakness. In one of my two cases tremor was the predominant symptom, being so severe as to suggest at first paralysis agitans. In the other case there was pain referred to the bend of the elbow on clenching the fist, as in the act of grasping the hammer, apparently so severe that he could scarcely exert any pressure with the hand. There was also marked weakness of the triceps in extend- ing the forearm, as in the act of striking with the hammer, while the power of the muscle was quite good in keeping the arm out straight when already placed in that position. This incon- sistency in the strength of the muscle is a proof of the weakness being functional, and not due to any organic lesion. In addition to the weakness of his arm, his right leg was weak, and dragged in walking, apparently resembling Dr. Smith's cases; but in addition there was marked right hemiansesthesia with slight con- traction of the right visual field, and diminution of hearing, taste, and smell on the right side. These symptoms persisted for four or five months under treatment by faradism; but they gradu- ally disappeared, and he made a perfect re- covery, and returned to his work. Pathology.—Three views have been put for- ward : (1) That there is a local weakness of the muscles; (2) that the spasm is set up reflexly by sensory impressions received from the part in question ; (3) that the disease is central in origin, due to exhaustion and inco-ordination of the centres in the brain, a neurosis. The first theory has been strongly advocated by Poore, who claims that there is often some wasting of muscle, and more often electrical 4