PELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM 391 are small and frequently multilocular; the latter are thin walled, and, as a rule, unilocular. The contents of these cysts is a clear or opalescent fluid of a specific gravity 1002-6, albumin free, but holding chlorides in solution. They are lined by ciliated columnar or by cubical epi- thelium. Doran and Sutton have described a papillary cyst of the broad ligament identical with a similar tumour of the ovary. In rare cases cysts have arisen by distension of the hydatid of Morgagni; those are small and clini- cally unimportant. Hydatid or echinococcal cysts have been described as arising in the pelvic cellular tissue, and always in close relation to the intestines. The invasion of the parasite results in a chronic inflammation characterised by round elastic tumours, which are slightly movable and not painful. A positive diagnosis can only be made by a microscopical examination of the contents of the cysts. If the tumour be situated low down in the pelvis it should be attacked by the vaginal route, the sac emptied, the lining membrane removed, and thin gauze introduced into the cavity. When the peritoneal cavity has to be opened into, Pozzi advises that the opening over the cyst should be packed with gauze from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Adhesions form in this period, after which the cyst can be opened without danger of infecting the peritoneal cavity. Varicocele of the broad ligament is most fre- quently met with on the left side, for the reason that the left ovarian vein has a long course to run before it joins the left renal vein. Further- more, the left ovarian vein is larger than the right, as it is joined by two colico-spermatic veins from the descending colon. The varicose masses may form a tumour as large as a walnut. Clinically they manifest themselves by sensations of dragging and pain in the pelvis, which symp- toms are immediately relieved by the patient assuming the recumbent posture. Thrombosis sometimes occurs, and phleboliths are not un- frequently found in these tumours. Abdominal section and removal of the masses between liga- tures is the correct treatment. Actinomycosis of the Broad Ligament.—In a case described by Grainger Stewart and Muir, invasion by the organism seems to have occurred per vaginam; the Fallopian tubes, ovaries, and pelvic cellular tissue were secondarily in- volved. LipomoB of the meso-saljnnx are of not rare occurrence. They are usually found near the under surface of the tube; they vary in size from a bean to a walnut, and are of no clinical importance. Fibromata and fibromyojiiata of the broad ligament are occasionally found independent of the uterus or ovary. Non-striped muscle fibres occur in the broad and round ligaments, and from those such tumours arise. They occur most frequently on the right side, and rarely attain to a large size. Sometimes they are pedunculated, but more commonly are sessile. Sarcoma and carcinoma of the broad ligaments are usually the result of extension of the disease from adjacent parts, but in some rare cases the lesions have been primarily in the broad liga- ments. Diagnosis can only be made by micro- scopical examination. Pelvis—Hsematocele and Hsematoma I. Intra-peritoneal Form of Hsematocele. —Of this two varieties are distinguished, differ- ing only in the rapidity with which they are formed. If the hsemorrhage be abundant no definite tumour is formed, and as a rule the patient rapidly succumbs. This form is known as a " non - encysted hfematocele." If the haemorrhage is comparatively small in quantity, or slow in accumulating, it gravitates towards the pouch of Douglas, where its presence pro- duces a localised peritonitis, which results in the formation of adhesions, and subsequently of a cyst. The walls of such a cyst are formed anteriorly by the uterus, posteriorly by the rectum and the peritoneum lining the posterior wall of the pelvis, latei-ally by the utero-sacral ligaments. The roof is supplied by the coils of the intestines which have become adherent to the fundus uteri, the broad and round liga- ments, the ovaries and tubes, and the peri- toneum lining the lateral and posterior walls of the pelvis. II. Extra-peritoneal Form of Hematocele OR HiEMATOMA.—The hsemorrhage in such a con- dition is found in the cellular tissue which sur- rounds the uterus and the other pelvic organs. The commonest site is between the layers of the broad ligaments, as the blood-vessels in this situa- tion are large, and, being surrounded by looser areolar tissue than elsewhere, are least sup- ported. Sometimes the blood invades the cellu- lar sheath which surrounds the rectum. Owing to the greater resistance to the escape of blood the tumours of this group are generally much smaller than those of the intra-peritoneal class ; but in some cases the pressure of the effused blood is sufiicient to strip the peritoneum from its usual attachments, and it may be sufficiently powerful to rupture this membrane, and a secondary hsemorrhage may occur into the peritoneal cavity. Causes may be divided into two classes. First, hsemorrhage arising from rupture of one of the various forms of extra-uterine gestation. This is by far the commonest source of pelvic htematoceles, and some have gone so far as to regard it as being their only origin. Second, intra-abdominal hsemorrhage may arise from injuries to the viscerse or rupture of an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta or coeliac axis. Such haemorrhages naturally gravitate to the pelvis. Again, regurgitation of menstrual blood through the Fallopian tubes is regarded