59 NEW-BORN INFANT times the inflammation spreads to the skin margin surrounding the umbiHcus (periumbili- cal lymphangitis); a superficial lymphangitis occurs with some redness, pain, and swelling of the part. The name omphalitis or umbilical phlegmon has been given to a deeper extension of the inflammation in the neighbourhood of the navel; in it the cellular tissue becomes infected and inflamed, there is considerable swelling, heat, and pain, constitutional symp- toms occasionally of great severity may super- vene, and there may be a still further extension of the infection (to umbilical vessels or peri- toneum). The treatment will take the form of giving free exit to pus, and dressing antisepti- 3ally. Erysipelas neonatorum usually has its origin in infection through the umbilicus. It is generally associated with puerperal fever in the mother, a fact which points to its strepto- joccic origin; and it is much less common now blian it was in the pre-antiseptic and pre-aseptic lays of midwifery practice, but when it occurs it is very fatal. The erysipelatous flush appears iirst in the hypogastric region, generally two or \hvee days after birth, and soon spreads to the genitals, and later to the thighs and more iistant parts. There is high fever (102° to 105° F.), the skin becomes dark red, glazed, xnd oedematous, but sometimes is so firm as lot to pit on pressui'e. Occasionally there are sresicles and even bullae. The pulse is rapid '150), the respirations shallow and quick; and ieath follows from exhaustion on the sixth or seventh day of the illness. The treatment will jonsist in the internal administration of tonics tinct. ferri perchloridi, quinine) and stimulants ; hypodermic injections of anti - streptococcic ierum may be tried, and the surface affected should be dressed with antiseptic vaseline. In ;he worst cases of umbilical affection the in- lammation may go on to widespread ulcera- 'ion, and even to gangrene of the pa rt; bvit such occurrences are now very rare. There is still mother group of cases in which the infection ind inflammation specially affect the umbilical ressels: in these instances the two arteries may DC involved {umbilical arteritis), or the umbilical vein may be the seat of purulent processes 'umbilical phlebitis); in arteritis umbilicalis ;he inflammation extends along the hypogastric irteries to the level of the bladder, and may ;ause peritonitis and changes in distant organs ; n phlebitis umbilicalis the portal vein is soon iffected, and jaundice results. It has been ihown that in such circumstances endarteritis md endophlebitis are not always secondary to oeriarteritis aud periphlebitis; they may occur IS primary conditions. Premature infants are ilways more liable to these umbilical infections, 'or in them the umbilical route of entrance does lot so perfectly close nor so quickly. Among the umbilical infections must now be ncluded tetanus neonatorum, fonnerly one of the most dreaded scourges of infantile life. It is due to the entrance of the tetanus bacillus (bacillus of Nicolaier), through the umbilicus from faulty or absent hygiene. It commonly begins to manifest itself by difficulty in swallow- ing and rigidity of the facial muscles between the fifth and ninth days after birth. Soon spasms occur which affect all the muscles. The temperature rises, the pulse becomes very rapid, and the action of the respiratory muscles is interfered with, death resulting from such in- terference or from exhaustion. It is a disease which has been very fatal, and in certain parts of the world it used to cause an enormous in- fantile mortality. Its real treatment, which is also the real treatment of all umbilical infec- tions, is prophylactic. If the cord be treated aseptically, or if, failing that, antiseptic dress- ings be afterwards applied to it, the disease may be practically abolished. Of the good effect of such treatment a brilliant example was furnished a few years ago in the island of St. Kilda; in that outlying member of the Hebrides the adoption of surgical cleanness and the use of iodoform dressing for tlie cord practically got rid of tetanus and saved many lives. When the disease has actually set in treatment by chloral hydrate, opium, and calomel has not proved of any great benefit; rectal feeding will be required. Buhl's disease, or acute fatty degeneration of the new-born, is a curious neonatal condition which may be due to an infection, but not necessarily to one entering by the umbilical avenue. It is characterised pathologically by parenchymatous inflammation and fatty degeneration and haem- orrhages in the heart, liver, and kidneys; hsemorrhagic foci are also found in other organs. There is cyanosis, difficulty in resuscitation at birth, jaundice later, and generally haemorrhage from the mouth, umbilical wound, etc., before the case terminates, as it usually does, in death from collapse. Winckel's disease, to which the name of hcemoglobinuria neonatorum, bronzed hcematm-ic disease of the new-born, renxil tubal hwmatia, and pernicious icteric cyanosis have been given, in certain characters resembles Buhl's disease. The names suggest several of the prominent symptoms and pathological appeai'- ances. The disease begins to show itself two or three days after birth. Both jaundice and cyanosis are present, and the result is a very deep icteric tinge, which has been described as "bronzed." The cyanosis is best marked in the limbs. Soon there is haematuria, the urine having a coffee - coloured appearance ; some observers, however, have found indican and not haemoglobin or haematin in the urine. There may also be diarrhoea, the temperature falls, and there is usually death in convulsions, and from collapse in from two to three days. Histologically changes have been found in the composition of the blood and in the renal