182 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE motor and sensory, is more frequent in throm- bosis cases, and sometimes occurs as the earliest symptom, before the onset of exophthalmos or oedema. Injuries of the Orbit ^ I7iju7'ies of the Soft Farts.—These are almost always dvie to laceration of structures by pene- trating wounds, or the entrance of foreign bodies, such as chips of metal, bullets, or shot pellets. The immediate result of penetrating wounds is haemorrhage into the orbital tissues, and if large or numerous vessels have been divided, a htematoma of considerable size may form. This is followed by exophthalmos, which may rapidly become so great as to endanger the cornea from exposure and interference with its nutrition. The extravasated blood usually finds its way forward, and appears imder the ocular conjunctiva and beneath the skin of the eyelids. Under treatment by rest and the application of ice, bleeding usually ceases, and as the extra- vasated blood undergoes absorption, the eyeball resumes its normal position. If the wound be septic, suppuration may occur in the blood-clot, and an orbital abscess result. Extensive liBemor- rhage in the orbit may also be caused by severe blows without a penetrating wound. In such instances there is usually fracture of the bony wall of the orbit. Complete division of one or more of the recti muscles is an occasional result of perforating wounds by sharp instruments. The eyeball may wholly escape injury in such cases. Devia- tion of the eye and loss of movement in one direction, and diplopia will indicate the nature of the injury. Division or severe laceration of the optic nerve is a not uncommon result of penetrating wounds of the orbit by bullets or such imple- ments as knitting-needles, pencils, etc. which make but a small external wound, and may not injure other important structures. In such cases there is immediate and generally perma- nent defect or loss of sight. The eye may, and probably will, appear uninjured, but will usually show dilatation of the pupil and loss of restric- tion of its reaction to direct illumination. Ophthalmoscopic examination reveals nothing abnormal at the time of or soon after the injury; but in the course of two or three weeks, or longer, signs of atrophy of the optic disc make their appearance. If the nerve has been wounded at a point anterior to the entrance of the arteria centralis retinae, the ophthalmoscopic appearances will resemble those of embolism, namely, cloudiness of the retina, and shrinking of its arteries. Foreign bodies of very considerable size may lodge in the orbit and give rise to no external signs by which their presence can be detected. ' Injuries of the Eyeball and Eyelids. See vol. iii. p. 207 et seq. On the other hand, they not infrequently cause some displacement of the eyeball and limita- tion of its movement, and occasionally complete dislocation of the globe. If the missile has entered the orbit forcibly, it may traverse the cavity and pass through the bony wall. Perforation of the roof of the orbit and wound of the meninges or brain in this way is usually followed by meningitis or cerebral abscess and death. In children, such a result sometimes occurs from a perforating wound by a small stick or similar implement with which the child is playing and upon which he falls. The stick is withdrawn, and as the wound appears trivial but little notice is taken of it until the onset of cerebral symptoms. The wound of entrance is sometimes in the conjunctiva beneath the upper eyelid, and may easily be overlooked. When the presence of a foreign body in the orbit is suspected the wound should be carefully probed. In the case of fragments of metal, stone, etc., examination by X-rays should be resorted to. Injuries of the Bony Walls of the Orbit.— Fractures of the bony walls may result from direct or indirect violence. They are commonly caused by severe blows in the orbital region, with or without laceration of the superficial structures. They may involve any portion of the orbital wall. Fractures at the margin of the orbit are easily detected by the irregularity of ovitline and crepitation; small fragments of bone may be so completely separated as to be freely movable. Fractures of the deeper parts of the orbital wall are more difficult of diagnosis. If the outer wall is involved, it is sometimes possible to detect crepitation or movement of the segments. When the inner wall has been fractured and communication with the respira- tory passages established, emphysema of the orbital tissues usually occurs. This is followed by exophthalmos. Emphysema can be dis- tinguished from haemorrhage in the orbit by a feeling of crepitation in the tissues, the diminu- tion of the swelling by pressure, and its increase during forced expiration. Bleeding from the nose is also usual in fracture of the inner wall. If the fracture is situated anteriorly, displace- ment of the lacrymal bone or of a fragment of the ethmoid bone may be discovered on careful palpation. Fracture of the floor of the orbit into the maxillary antrum may be followed by emphysema; and the infra-orbital nerve may be lacerated, causing anaesthesia over the area of its distribution. Fracture of the roof of the orbit is generally caused by penetrating wounds, and is therefore most dangerous. It may, however, be due to indirect violence; and there being no objective signs, the earliest clear indication of the fracture may be the onset of symptoms of meningitis.