484 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION or lateral, when the digits are separated. These points are usually seen in a child convalescent from chorea. In fatigue and listlessness the hand is held out more slowly and at a lower level than the shoulder, the palm contracted as before described, with the wrist and fingers drooped. This, like the nervous balance, is usually more marked on the left side. The movements of expression may be de- scribed and classified for further study as occur- ring in large or in small parts of the body. Rotation of the head to one side, with raising of the scapula; jerking movements of both shoulders while they are brought somewhat forward ; movement at shoulder-joint and elbow ; shifting the lower limbs at the hips, or binding the knees, are examples of large muscles in action ] these frequently occur in functional and so-called hysterical cases. These differ in the signification of their expression from the finer movements of the digits, the eyeballs, and the mobile features of the face, and the tongue, which more directly represent action in the higher centres, and are often expressive of mental states ; they are readily interfered with by local changes in the brain, such as general paralysis at its commencement, chorea of slight degree, and neurotic disturbances. Further examples will appear in speaking of classes of movements. In describing expression, besides indicating the parts that move, whether small or large, the character and relations of series of move- ments are of importance. Movements may be classified or grouped without reference to either the parts moving or the cause of the action seen. Uniformly repeated movements, of the same parts occurring in the same order, when spon- taneous, have been called automatic; such may be seen in repeated frowning, grinning, grimaces, shoulder shrugging, tricks and habits (such as protrusion of the tongue, tapping with a finger on the table), as well as in athetosis. Such movements are unintelligent, and frequent among imbeciles. An increasing area of movement may express emotion, and follow a slight stimulus causing much brain action, such as a few words or even a look from another person. Action thus spreads over the face in smiling. In laughter it is stronger; commencing about the mouth, the whole body is finally convulsed ; the spreading convulsion of passion and epilepsy lead to brain exhaustion ; in chorea a slight stimulus produces widely-distributed movement. A spreading movement may be uniformly repeated on various occasions, as the area of spasm in stammering. A lessening series of inovements is seen when excitement or spontaneity lessens, as rest or sleepiness supervenes; also when fidgeting is partially inhibited during mental attention, as well as during convalescence from chorea, and when an epileptic or hysterical fit or storm of passion subsides. A co-ordinated series of movements expresses a relation to the environment in its present or past control. One act succeeds another, not an increasing area of movement; each act ac- complishes something in well co-ordinated action, and the series follows a certain order. Co-ordination is usually less fatiguing than the spreading expression of emotion. Expression may be described by indicating individual neuro-motor signs and series of move- ments ; besides this, it is useful to study ex- pression of the general characters of the state of the brain, that is, the modes of sensory response, which may be conveniently grouped under headings. Spontaneity is the normal character of the young brain. This kind of movement may be seen in infants, and is abundant in childhood ; usually there is variety rather than repetition in such action. The area of movement may spread or diminish iinder observation ; then we infer a corresponding increase or decrease of spontaneity in the nerve-centres. In early years spontaneity is seen in uncontrolled move- ments of all parts of the body, especially the digits and the eyeballs, while disconnected thoughts similai'ly arise, but later they become controllable by training. Spontaneous move- ment lessens towards adolescence, remaining latest in facial expression and in speech, while spontaneous thoughts continue more or less to the end of life. Uncontrolled movement may occur in fatigue or low health, as fidgetiness, restlessness and chorea, or as mental action in delirium. Impressionability is shown by any of the modes of expression in which action is controlled by the environment through the senses, whether the impression be permanent or not. Inhibition is expressed when, in an infant three or four months old, the spontaneous move- ments are momentarily arrested after an im- pression by sight or sound, at first for a few seconds only. At this stage of brain evolution we cannot infer what occurs in the brain during the pause, but at, say, five months old, co- ordinated action follows the arrest of spontaneity; the object seen is grasped, or the head and eyes turned towards the sound: the brain is prepared for this co-ordinated action during the pause. An older child, when asked a question, tends to repeat it; the fidgeting is probably arrested in part, then comes a pause for thought followed by expression in words. We infer that some readjustment of the brain-centres (psychosis) occurs during the period of inhibition of move- ment corresponding to thought. Control through the senses expresses the reaction of the nerve-centres to external stimulation; this should be tested separately for hearing, sight, and other sources of im-