NURSING, TRAINING FOR 135 cents in connection with providing suitable occupation is also discussed. Pupils upon completing satisfactorily the full term of three years, and passing successfully the final examinations, will receive the diploma of the school. In this country I only know of two hospitals, the Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, and the London Hospital, Whitechapel, where an attempt has been made to institute a system of preliminary training and examination, and this experiment has been attended with the best possible results. The age regulation for commencing nursing in a general hospital being between twenty-three and twenty-five years of age, the interval of time beforehand can be profitably filled up by the candidate taking lectures on general nursing, elementary physiology and hygiene, and courses of practical cookery. These lectures are obtainable in domestic economy schools and classes throughout the country. With such previous knowledge a probationer nurse's power to profit by ward training is greatly increased. There is here appended a short account of the present regulations for admissions, etc., to general and other hospitals. As has been already indicated, this falls far short of the ideal. The General Hospitals, containing from 600 to 800 beds.—Probationers must be between twenty-five and thirty-five years of age, and after a month's trial can enter for two years' training and two years' service, either in the hospital or on the private nursing staff (some hospitals only require three years' training). Salary: first year, £12; second year, £20. Nurses receive from £24 to £27 a year. The whole or part of the indoor uniform is provided, and some hospitals give the outdoor uniform as well. There may or there may not be an entrance examination. An examination is held each year, and also at the completion of the course. All applications should be made in writing to the matron, and in most institutions a personal interview with the candidate is an invariable rule. Poor-Law Infirmaries. — The age limit is younger — twenty-one to thirty years. Pro- bationers have to put in first three months of trial. If appointed probationers they then en- gage to remain three years in the service of the infirmary, receiving lodging, washing, and uni- form. Nurses receive regular instruction from the medical officers and matron, and must pass certain examinations at the end of the third year, when they receive a certificate. Twelve hours are spent on duty daily, and the various times allowed off' duty are less than in a general hospital. In most of the infirmaries the nurses have a comfortable house, and either have separate bedrooms or cubicles. The salaries are: first year, £10; second year, £20; third year, £22. Children's Hospitals.—Probationers may com- mence their training at twenty-one years of age. A certificate is usually granted after two years. This certificate is of no value for a later appoint- ment in a general hospital. Infectious Hospitals.—KW. inquiries of those about London should be addressed to the Clerk, Metropolitan Asylums Board, Embankment, E.G., and in provincial parts applications to be made to tlie matron of the infectious fever hospitals. In fever hospitals, as a rule, the hours on duty are shorter than is usual in the general hospitals. District Nursing. — Almost all the county associations which endeavour to supply trained district nurses are now affiliated with the Queen's Jubilee Nursing Institute, and the nurses are known as Queen's Nurses. The objects of the general scheme are the training of nurses in the special practice of nursing the poor by visits at their own homes; the provision of a continuous supply of qualified superintendents and nurses to local associations in affiliation with the Institute ; the ensuring a high standard of district nursing throughout the kingdom by efficient inspection of the nurses' work. The following qualifications are necessary :— {a) Training in some general hospital or in- firmary for at least two years ; {b) approved training in district nursing for not less than six months, including monthly nursing; (c) nurses in country districts must in addition have at least three months' approved training in midwifery. During her training the nurse will receive £12 : 10s., with board, etc., and allowance for laundry. After training the nurse must agree to serve the Institute as a district nurse for two years wherever her services may be required by the Council. When a Queen's nurse the com- mencing salary is usually £30, with board, lodging, uniform, and an allowance for laundry. Applications for training should be made by letter to the Inspector, Queen Victoria's Jubilee Institute for Nurses, St. Katherine's, Regent's Park, N.W. They will then be put in com- munication with the superintendent of the head branches in London, Edinburgh, Dublin, or Cardiff-. In some rural districts where the associations are unable to afford a completely trained nurse to work in the homes of the poor, an endeavour has been made to meet the need by giving women in the villages an insight into nursing duties as will enable them to give assistance in ordinary cases of illness. This form of instruc- tion has been given to a large number of village nurses at the Plaistow District Nurses' Home, Essex, under the matronship of Miss Twining. The knowledge the nurses acquire during the six months, both as regards district work and