NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS not spirit drinkers frequently beer drinkers also, and if so, may not the neuritis be due to arsenical beer rather than spirits'? (2) If neuritis is produced by spirits only, is it due to the alcohol, or to the presence of arsenic as an impurity t With regard to the first question, it must be admitted that spirit drinkers frequently take beer also. There have been numerous cases, however, in which the influence of beer can be almost excluded. But quite recently, since so much attention has been paid to this question, several cases of neuritis from spirit drinking have been already published, in which beer can be definitely excluded as an etiological factor. As regards the second question, the writer is not aware that any analysis of spirits has yet shown the presence of arsenic. In a case of peripheral neuritis from excessive whisky drinking recently recorded by the writer, in which the diagnosis was verified by microscopical examination of the peripheral nerves, beer drinking could be definitely ex- cluded in the causation. Also, three samples of whisky obtained from the same source as that from which the patient was supplied, gave no reaction for arsenic with Reinsch's test. Hence there appears to be no reason for doubting the correctness of the common opinion that alcoholic beverages, especially spirits, are capable of pro- ducing peripheral neuritis apart from arsenic as an impurity. To be strictly logical, it has not been defi- nitely proved that pure ethyl alcohol produces peripheral neuritis in man, since no one takes pure ethyl alcohol as a beverage. Whether the ethyl alcohol or some organic impurity, such as furfural, is the chief toxic agent in the production of neuritis from spirit drinking remains to be decided. But until it has been clearly shown that ethyl alcohol is not the cause, it appears justifiable to describe by the name alcoholic neuritis all those cases of peri- pheral neuritis from the drinking of alcoholic beverages, in which there is no evidence of the presence of aiiy other poison known to be ■capable of producing neuritis. Symptoms.—The onset is usually somewhat gradual or subacute, rarely rapid. The patient complains of numbness and tingling (or of " pins-and-needles sensation") in the toes and fingers, which also feel "dead." He suffers from cramps especially in the calf muscles, and from gnawing or tearing pains in the limbs, especially in the legs. The pains are increased by movements and by pressure. When the muscles of the calf are grasped great pain is produced (muscular hyperalgesia). Sometimes touching tlae skin produces pain. Often there is hypertesthesia, especially of the feet, which renders walking difficult. Slight constitutional disturbance, with a little elevation of tempera- ture, may be pi-esent for a short time just at the commencement of the affection. Soon signs of muscular weakness are noted in addition to the sensory symptoms. The toes become " dropped," and there is difficulty in extending them. The feet become " dropped," and the patient cannot dorsiflex them. In walking, the feet are dropped, and the knees must be raised unusually high in order to clear the dropped feet from the ground (high-stepping gait). Occasionally the gait is somewhat ataxic (nevro-tabes pe7-ipherique). The knee-jerks are lost early. Occasionally, just at the earliest stage, the knee-jerks are present or even a little increased ; but they usually disappear very soon). The weakness in the legs gradually increases until walking is impossible. When the disease has become well developed the patient presents the following symptoms :— Motor.—Both legs are symmetrically para- lysed. The peronei and anterior tibial muscles are most affected. The feet and toes are bent towards the sole and cannot be bent upwards (cannot be dorsiflexed) towards the ankles— dropped feet aud toes. Often the feet are a little inverted because the tibialis anticus muscle is less affected than the other muscles on the front of the leg. The tibialis anticus tendon is often prominent, and the patient is sometimes able to slightly invert the foot when he is unable to dorsiflex it. In the less severe forms the patient can flex at the hips and knees ; but in advanced cases the legs may be almost completely paralysed, the patient being able to perform slight movements at the hips only. The muscles of the legs, especially those of the anterior tibial group, undergo atrophy. On electrical examination the affected muscles often present a diminution of faradic and galvanic excitability: with the galvanic current the K.C.C. may be greater than A.C.C. as in health ; or the K.C.C. and A.C.C. may be equal. A reaction of degeneration (with absence of faradic excitability, and A.C.C. > K.C.C), but with diminution of galvanic excitability, occurs only in advanced cases. In the most severe forms, the muscles chiefly implicated may lose all excitability both to faradism and galvanism. The excitability both to galvanism and faradism in the nerves is diminished and finally lost. The knee-jerks are absent; the plantar reflexes are very feeble or absent; ankle clonus is absent. In many cases the arms are not affected ; in severe eases both arms are paralysed, but not so markedly as the legs. The extensors of the fingers and wrists on both sides are most affected, as in lead paralysis ; tlie wrists and fingers are dropped, and the patient is unable to extend them. The dropping of the fingers is most marked in the little finger, and gradually becomes a little less from the little finger to the index finger. The supinator longus is spared in many cases just as in lead paralysis. In severe cases the flexors of the fingers and wrist are aff'ected more or less; but the flexor