NEURASTHENIA 45 there are the bromides, laxatives, and special nerve tonics, such as valerian, the salts of zinc, quinine, and iron. It is a mistake to think drugs are useless. Much may be done by their aid if given wisely and courageously. The bromides are invaluable where sleep is very difficult. They should be given in large doses for a short time till a powerful sedative effect is produced. Three or four days of large doses (gr. 30, 40, or 50 at a dose) are usually enough. The effect should be watched. Bromides do not agree with everyone. After the bromides, and following them, the salts of zinc, the valerianate, bromide, and oxide should be given, and if possible with them cod-liver oil. After a week or so of the zinc salts, the mineral acids with mix. vom. in full doses, and arsenic in minute and gradually increased doses, should be given for a month. Baths of many kinds are also in- valuable in conditions of neurasthenia. The re- freshing effects of a large hot bath, and even of sponging the face for a minute or two with quite hot water, are familiarly known. We are not quite sure how the hot water acts upon the central nerves, but there is no doubt that it does affect them for the moment very much as sleep does. It refreshes, and it is refreshment that weak nerve-centres crave. The notion that hot water is weakening is an error. If quite hot and applied only for a few moments and as douche, not in the form of a large bath, it is invigorating. Where the Weir-Mitchell method is impossible it is well worth while to prescribe three or four daily short douches of the neck and face with water of 105° F. or more, and to order the feet to be put into still hotter water for two or three minutes twice a day perhaps, in the afternoon and at bedtime. As the case improves the morning douching may be done with moderately cold water, till in the end the patient is taking a sitz bath every morning in water of 60° F., and a quite hot sitz bath every night. It is well to order definite treatment and only for a limited time, and not to let the patient impose his invalidism on the household per- manently. Six weeks ought to be long enough to enforce a strict mode of life, and at the end of the time decided upon, the patient should have another set of rules to act upon permanently. In framing these rules great care should be taken not to impose needless burdens on the patient's family. Neurasthenia is not hysteria, but, like other people, the subjects of neuras- thenia can also be hysterics and much too en- grossed in themselves and their symptoms. In their own interests they should be encouraged to think of the welfare and comfort of others as much as possible. For instance, a neuras- thenic woman who has been helped by a six weeks' course might be told to have every day two hours of complete solitude and quiet, to be in bed by 10 p.m. and not up before 7.30 a.m., and to take certain specified spongings and baths. Inside the given rules she should be encouraged to live a normal and social life, and to think of everyone rather than of herself It is better that all neurasthenics should know that their special type of constitution cannot be altered or got rid of. It will stay with them, and they must make the best possible of their lives in spite of it. They must not be wasteful of their nervous strength ; they must use what they have wisely, and look carefully to its renewal by food and sleep. We are often asked if neurasthenia is not increasing. Probably it is. As the evolution of society advances the demands made upon the nervous strength of the majority of people are bound to increase. The weak ones feel the added burden, and they will fall out in in- creasing numbers unless their inherited nervous development keeps pace with the evolution of society. It is useless to wish to go back to a more primitive and simple life. It is better to think of what might be done to raise the general standard of nervous strength by the promotion of temperance and self-control in those from whom the next generation will inherit their nervous organisation. The world has not yet seen, possibly it will never see, how far nervous disease and nervous weakness could be dimin- ished by getting rid of the influences which lead, directly and indirectly, and possibly through several generations, to a low level of vitality and to inherent defects of nutrition in the units of which the nervous system is the aggregate. And though it would be Utopian to hope that at any time in the future the perfect development of all civilised human beings shall cease to be checked by malign influences which need not have existed, it is reasonable to hope that with a gradual advance in knowledge, in ethics, and in moral strength, such influences will in time be much less often responsible for a bad nervous inheritance than they now are. Neuratrophy.—Atrophy of a nerve or of part of the nervous system. Neurectasis. — Nerve-stretching as an operative measure, e.g. in sciatica. Neurectomy. — The operation of ex- cision of a part of a nerve. See Nerves, Peri- pheral—Neuralgia {Treatment); Sympathetic Ophthalmitis (Treatment, Optico-ciliary Nev/rec- tomy). Neurectopia. — Displacement or ab- normal situation of a nerve (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, eKTO7r05, out of place). NeurenteriC Canal.—A tubular con- nection between the neural canal and amniotic sac in the embryo and the intra-embryonic part of the archenteron ; a trace of it has been seen