OBERMEYER'S TEST 138 Obermeyer's Test.— A test for the presence of indican in the urine, depending on the formation of indigo blue. See Pigments OF THE Body {Indigo Pigments, Indoxyl Sul- phuric Acid). Obermiiller's Test.— A colour test for cholesterine, depending on the action of propionic acid, recommended by Kuno Ober- muller (1892). Obesity. Introduction . . . . . .138 Etiology . . . . . . 138 Varieties— Plethoric 139 Aruemic ...... 139 Pathological Relations . . . 140 Treatment . . . . . .140 Adiposis Dolorosa . . . .143 See also Adiposis' Dolorosa ; Dercum's Dis- ease ; Diabetes Mbllitus {Predisposing and Exciting Causes); Glycosuria {Alimentary Variety); Hydropathy {Uses, Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Lipomatosis ; Menstruation AND ITS Disorders {Amenorrhoea, Causes); Preg- nancy, Diagnosis {Differential); Typhoid Fever (Sequelce). Obesity (from ob, on account of, and probably esiim, from edo, to eat) is a term applied to an excessive production of fat or adipose matter which is found deposited especially in the sub- cutaneous, intermuscular, and subserous con- nective tissue, the greatest deposits being found in the nates, thighs, back of the neck, the ab- dominal walls, the omentum and mesentery. Etiology.—-The vdtimate fact upon which obesity depends is that more fat-forming sub- stances are taken into the body as food than can be physiologically utilised in the functions of the organism, and the excess is deposited as adipose tissue in the body. Speaking generally, the obese person is a person who consumes more food, or more food of a certain kind, than he can use. But there are many predisposing causes of obesity, and the whole question of etiology cannot be dis- posed of by the above simple statement. Among the predisposing causes of obesity heredity takes an important place. Oertel states that 50 per cent of the patients who come under observation for obesity have an hereditary tendency thereto. In these hereditary cases the manifestations of the tendency to excessive deposition of fat is often seen in early life—more commonly in female than in male children. Sometimes it aftects all, and sometimes only a certain number of the children of the predisposed family. Some- times this tendency does not appear till a more advanced age. In this connection Weinberger has reported the case of a boy five years of age weighing over 13 stones, and Kisch a girl of six weighing nearly 8 stones, and we have ourselves seen a boy of eleven years of age weighing over 15 stones. An important practical consideration with reference to these hereditary cases is that they are much less favourable subjects for therapeutic treatment than are cases of acquired corpulency. Amelioration under treatment in such patients, is usually of only temporary duration. Age.—With respect to the influence of age in causing obesity, it has been observed that ad- vanced middle-age is the period when excessive development of fat is apt to set in. We are leaving out of consideration those normal de- velopments of adipose tissue which occur in infancy and at the period of puberty in the female sex. At these times the fat is observed to be uniformly distributed over the body, giving a general and agreeable aspect of plump- ness, but in middle life this excess of fat tends especially to accumulate in the abdominal walls, the omentum, mesentery, pericardium, medias- tinum, etc. One reason why this tendency should appear especially at or about middle age is doubtless because the physiological need of food naturally diminishes with advancing years and a less active life, and the capacity for utilising it diminishes also. Notwithstauding this there ia no diminution in the amount of food taken. At this age the capacity for muscular exertion is lessened, and there exists no longer either the same disposition or the same ability to engage in those active physical exercises which in earlier years dispose of much of the surplus food-supply. Sex.—It is easy to understand the increased incidence of obesity in the female sex. In the first place, there is naturally and normally in women a more extensive and abundant develop- ment of adipose tissue than in men. Then their more sedentary and less active habits and their more luxurious modes of life favour the develop- ment of obesity. It has also been suggested that their blood is poorer in hssmoglobin, and therefore less able to oxidise the fat-forming- substances in their food. There is a marked relation between the de- velopment of fat and the functional activity of the sexual organs. Impotence or castration in the male is often attended by a rapid increase of fat formation. Castrated animals are known to fatten readily. After the cessation of menstruation in women a tendency to obesity often sets in, and the same has been observed to occur with young widows who have not remarried. An increase of adipose tissue has also been observed in women who have become sterile from uterine or ovarian disease. Monks and nuns often offer notable specimens of obesity. Temperament.—Persons of the so-called phleg- matic temperament, indolent, good-natured, easy-