11 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF Tumours The term neuroma is commonly applied to tumours of two distinct pathological classes, viz., true neuromata, which consist of nerve ele- ments, and false neuromata, pseudo-neuromata or neuro-fibromata, which originate in nerves, but are composed of a more or less modified connective tissue ; the inflammatory swellings formed at the cut ends of nerves are also described clinically as " amputation neuromata," although they have nothing in common with true tumours. A. True neuroma is an extremely rare form of tumour ; it may consist either of cells re- sembling those of the central organs, or of fibres which may or may not be medullated, and thus we have three anatomical varieties—the gan- glionic, the myelinic, and the amyelinic. Gan- glionic neuroma is found only in close connection with the brain and spinal cord, and especially about the root of the nose or inner angle of the orbit; growths consisting of nerve-fibres are generally associated with the sympathetic system, and they also often contain ganglionic cells. All these rare tiimours are generally met with at the time of or shortly after birth; they are well encapsuled, and are absolutely benign. Pathologically there can be no doubt that they are of the nature of congenital malformations due to displacement or irregular development of nervous structures. Although of little prac- tical importance they may occasionally require excision, especially when they appear upon the face. It is interesting to note that dermoid cysts occasionally contain ganglionic cells. B. The false neuromata are of greater fre- quency and importance. Omitting such inflam- matory conditions as amputation neuroma and the lesions of leprosy and certain other infective diseases, we find a number of clinical varieties built up from a comparatively simple anatomical basis. They belong to the connective-tissue group, and thus constitute fibromata, myxomata, lipomata, or sarcomata. They may be localised and encapsuled, or they may be widely diffused and disseminated along nerve-trunks in one or more regions of the body. They arise from the stroma of the nerves, and merely push aside the fibres of the latter, any proliferation of nervous tissue which may be met with being probably incidental and devoid of significance. I. The circumscribed or solitary tumours are generally simple fibromata; they may present myxomatous or fatty elements, or contain de- generation or exti-avasation cysts, and they may be sarcomatous. Angioma and lymphangioma are mere pathological curiosities. They are, as a rule, well encapsuled, of slow growth, and of comparatively small size. Such tumours are generally extremely painful and tender, but they do not, as a rule, cause any marked paralysis, anaesthesia, or trophic changes, except in the case of rapidly growing sarcomata. Their recognition depends mainly upon the site of the growth, the association of nervous symptoms, the eliciting of pain, cramp, etc. upon pressure, and their marked lateral mobility as contrasted with their fixation in the axis of the nerve. Excision is practicable in most cases, but often involves resection of a considerable portion of the aff'ected nerve, so that it may become a question whether the resulting lesion is or is not of more serious nature than the tumour itself. In some cases it is practicable to shell out the encapsuled growth, leaving intact the nerve-fibres, which lie to one side or scattered over its surface. A peculiar form of tumour is the painful subcutaneous nodule of Wood, which is a small hard fibroma, probably developed upon a ter- minal sensory branch. Such growths are ex- tremely painful, and lying as they do imme- diately beneath the skin, they are prone to irritation. They are sharply circumscribed, and in no way malignant. Circumscribed neuromata may arise within the vertebral canal upon the nerve-roots, and especially upon the cauda equina, in which case the pressure resulting from their confined situ- ation leads ultimately to paraplegia, which is capable of relief by operation. II. The diffused or generalised neuro-fibromata are also spoken of as neuro-fibromatosis, and various forms have received special designations from diff'erent writers. These masses are again fibromatous, myxomatous, orsarcomatous. They are generally multiple, and widely scattered throughout the nervous system. They may appear as numerous isolated masses, or as ex- tensive infiltrations of certain trunks, or of the nerves of certain regions. Commonly heredi- tary, they may be congenital, and probably all cases are due to developmental peculiarities —to a " form of gigantism or elephantiasis of the connective-tissue elements of the peripheral nervous system." In many cases, also, they are associated in their development with pre-existing cutaneous moles, and pigmentation of the super- jacent skin is a very common accompaniment of these growths. They are seldom very pain- ful or tender, nor do they, unless sarcomatous, usually produce marked disturbance of the nervous functions, but they become important from their multiplicity, their large size, their tendency to sarcomatous degeneration, the diffi- culty or impossibility of their excision, and their occasional involvement of the central nervous organs. 1. Molluscthm fihrosum is a form of neuro-fibro- matosis, presenting itself in the form of multiple subcutaneous masses of soft fibroma or fibro- myoma, with which may be associated similar masses on the deeper nerve-trunks. The sub- cutaneous nodules, which vary greatly in size, number, and distribution, are probably derived