PARANOIA 333 progressive, characterised by irregular manifes- tations of systematised delusion either of a depressed or of an ambitious nature. The latter is termed by Magnan the systematised insanity of the degenerate. With few excep- tions, English authors are in the position in which Prichard left the subject upwards of sixty years ago. The views of German psychiatrists will be best understood from the following references to the writings of one or two of their leading authorities. Schiile divides paranoia into two groups, Originare Verriicktheit (delu- sional insanity of the degenerate) and Chroni- scher Wahnsinn (chronic systematised insanity). The latter comprehends persecution mania and ambitious delusional insanity or megalomania. Krafft Ebing classifies paranoia as follows:— (1) Primare Verriicktheit, which he subdivides into (a) Originare Verriicktheit (commencing in childhood), and lb) Paranoia tardiva, which includes the insanity of persecution and megalo- mania ; (2) Hallucinatorische Wahnsinn, charac- terised by the excitation of the sensory centres in an exhausted brain. In this division are included a host of dissimilar conditions, such as acute alcoholism, forms of puerperal insanity, post-febrile insanity, and certain mental affec- tions found among prisoners. A majority of German psychiatrists have been influenced by KrafFt Ebing's teaching, with the result that not only was the identity of paranoia in danger of being lost, but that considerable misunder- standing, due to a confusion of nosological terms, arose between German writers and their confreres in other countries. Fortunately, Kraeplin has recently raised his voice in protest, and in the last edition of his text-book has ably combated the inclusion of such absolutely different symp- tomatic forms as those last mentioned under the head of paranoia. His conception of paranoia is that of a systematised delusional insanity, commencing with persecution, but always accompanied by gradually developing delusions of grandeur. A second form, com- prising a partially systematised insanity of the degenerate, he terms Der Querulantenwahn. To a corresponding class of the insane the French writers give the name persecutes perse- cuteurs persecuters. Both terms are expressive and descriptive of a group of patients who consider themselves wronged by society, and who are constantly demanding redress. From the above resum4 of the writings of various authors during the past century it will be seen that a continuous consensus of opinion has isolated a disease, the clinical nomenclature of which is diverse. To this disease many generic names have been given, but it would appear that paranoia must now for the sake of uniformity be accepted. Confusion as to clinical forms has necessarily arisen. The monomania of English writers is obsolete, and they themselves have done nothing to justify it. The paranoia of the Germans is in a state of chaos, out of which Kraeplin has done much to redeem it, but compared with the fulness of Magnan's descriptions, his presentation of clinical forms is meagre and unsatisfactory. There remain the delire chronique and the delire des degeneres of the French school. In favour of this view two arguments may be submitted: first, the undoubted prevalence of the affection in France; and, second, the trustworthiness of the men who have devoted their lives to the study of the affection. The names of these men, some of which have been already mentioned, are among the most eminent of European psychiatrists. But the proof of the truth of the French teaching will only be found in the inner conviction which results from a clinical study of the disease as depicted by their writers. Under the title borrowed from the Germans, the description of the affection which follows is on the lines of the French psychiatrists, and in accordance with their teaching it is divided into—I. Progressive systematised insanity, and II. The systema^tised insanity of the degenerate. I. Progressive Systematised Insanity Definition.—This disease is a chronic mental affection characterised by delusions of a fixed kind, and by hallucinations of hearing, of touch, and of pain. In the course of the affection there occurs a complete transformation of the person- ality of the patient and of the earlier symptoms of the insanity, accompanied by the appearance of delusions of an ambitious character, with cor- responding hallucinations of hearing. Magnan divides the affections into four stages. The first period, or period of incubation, is charac- terised by illusion, insane interpretation, and mental anxiety. In the second period, or stage of persecution, the principal phenomena are delusions of persecution, hallucinations of hear- ing and of general sensibility. The third period, or stage of ambition, presents hallucinations of hearing of an agreeable character, along with delusions of grandeur. The fourth and last period is that of failing intellectual power or dementia. Etiology. — The disease manifests itself in adult life usually after thirty years of age, and in persons who had previously been of sound health and free from intellectual disorder. Hereditary predisposition does not play an important part in the production of the disease, although it exists in a large proportion of cases. The disease is more common in the female sex, and is more prevalent among married women who have led unhappy domestic lives. Pro- longed disappointment, reverses of fortune, remorse, and jealousy are among the causes usually assigned. The physical causes cited as conducing to the malady comprise those influences which give rise to debility.