NEURASTHENIA 41 asthenia. He was never again able to take any responsible work; he had a horror of closed places, could not go to a theatre, concert-room, church, or crowded drawing-room. He lived for more than twenty-five years after marriage, never sleeping well, and frequently being imfit for even a life of trifling occupations. Of his six children the eldest son alone has inherited the father's neurasthenia. He has trained himself for two professions with, as a student, a considerable amount of distinction, but he can practise neither. The least bit of responsi- bility is more than he can bear; he loses his sleep at once, and is immediately a nervous wreck. The son, unlike the father, is able to take a great deal of muscular exertion without apparently being the worse for it. He can read and study to good purpose so long as he has absolutely no responsibility. In both these cases the general sense of illness was often very great and the nutrition poor. The son has wisely remained celibate. In the case of the father there was probably no actual excess in the amount of sexual activity, but what there was destroyed the unstable equilibrium between the expenditure and repair of nerve force. The influence of unnatural stimulation of the sexual organs on the nervous and general health of the individual is not easily determined. Probably the physical evil of such unnatural stimulation depends much more upon the ex- tent to which it is practised, if it is allowed to become a habit, than upon the nature of the stimulation itself. There can be no question as to the evil physical effects of the habit, when the mind is constantly turned towards the grati- fication of the sexual instincts, and when by auto-suggestion the sexual nerves are more or less constantly being excited. But this is rarely seen in perfectly sane people. Masturbation is ■extremely common in imbeciles and in persons of imperfect or very poor mental development, but in them it is the result and not the cause of their imperfection. The sense of moral de- gradation and the loss of self-respect and of self-control which result in sane people from self-abuse are its real and gravest penalties, and it may be doubted if there is any physical result, especially in the case of women, in the absence of a dominant habit. Practically it is not usually wise to treat confessions on this score from apparently healthy people in too serious a manner. They have gratified an animal instinct in an irregular way, and it is undesirable. Let them turn their thoughts resolutely into other and wholesomer channels, let them fill their minds and tire their muscles, and the temptation will depart. Advice of this kind helps their self-respect and self-control much more than it would do to treat their con- fession as if it were of a heinous sin, for which they must be full of remorse, and which they might never forget. What they want to escape is being enthralled by a bad habit, and with this in view they must get their minds thoroughly occupied with other subjects. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of neurasthenia is often extremely difficult. The observer should never decide hastily as between organic and func- tional nervous disease. The golden rule is to look for organic and to expect to find functional disease. Sir William Gull's aphorism, that " we make many more mistakes by not looking than by not knowing," is specially true when applied to the diagnosis of nervous disease. Look care- fully for evidence of organic disease. But to do this to good purpose implies that we know what to look for. " The eye sees only what it brings with it the power of seeing." Having found no objective evidence of organic disease, listen to the patient's story, asking no suggestive questions. If a neurasthenic patient is en- couraged to narrate his experience and symp- toms, there will, as a rule, be ample evidence against organic disease. No system disease one knows of ever had half the variety of symptoms and the variation of conditions described by the neurasthenic. The symptoms of organic disease vary very little from day to day, while those of neurasthenia are constantly changing, fleeting, metastatic, and recurrent. In organic diseases the reflex activity is often diminished; in functional it is usually increased. Still in many cases the diagnosis cannot be made at once. It is better to wait and watch even for weeks than to overlook organic disease. The diagnosis of neurasthenia from other functional disease is both less difficult and less important. We have to think of hysteria, insanity, per- versions of temper, and such moral defects as indolence, selfishness, and malingering, neuralgia, and the larval forms of Graves' disease. With a clear picture of neurasthenia in our minds, it is not usually difficult to distinguish it from any of these, though, as Dr. Cliflbrd AUbutt well says, " water-tight compartments " must not be expected in functional nervous disorders. Happily the name we give to an ailment often matters much less than how we treat it. Prognosis.—To form anything like a correct forecast as to the prospect of real recovery in any case of neurasthenia, we require to know much more about the conditions of the patient's life, his nervous inheritance, and his power of exercising self-control and discretion than it is ordinarily possible to know or to find out. Individual prognosis should, therefore, always be given guardedly even in cases of a hopeful class. Still it is possible to say that a large proportion of the minor forms of acquired neurasthenia recover in great measure under proper treatment. Severe cases of inherited neurasthenia do not recover under any treat- ment, if we take recovery to imply being able to enjoy life and hard work like healthy persons. No one can be sure that a severe case of