NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE 74 Method of performing Posterior Palpation.— The patient being seated, the surgeon stands on one side, and with his arm going behind the patient's head, holds a simple gag (such as Meyer's) in position. He then passes the fore- finger of the opposite hand (preferably the left on account of its smaller size) rapidly to the posterior wall of the pharynx, and up behind the soft palate, until the posterior edge of the nasal septum is felt as a thin hard ridge. On either side of the septum the posterior ends of the inferior turbinated bodies (sometimes those of the middle turbinated bodies also), especially if they are at all swollen, give the impression of soft cushions. They may be considered abnormal if they project into the naso-pharynx. The situation of the Eustachian cushion and orifice and the salpingo-pharyngeal fold can also be felt on either side, and behind these Rosen- miiller's fosste. The roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx should be carefully examined. Normally these parts have an uneven, irregular surface, but when adenoid vegetations are present they are studded with more or less pedunculated growths of all sizes and shapes. Palpation must be rapidly executed as it may produce retching. The first joint of the surgeon's forefinger may be conveniently protected from the patient's teeth by wrapping a piece of linen round it. Difliculty in getting a child to open its mouth can usually be overcome by moral suasion; if not, pressure of the cheek between the jaws with the surgeon's fingers will ac- complish • it. Difficulty in passing the finger behind the soft palate is to be met by inserting it at the lateral part of the palate, close to the tonsil. No force should be used. When the palate is passed, the beginner should be careful to pass his finger rapidly up to the roof, and feel for the septum, otherwise it may be grasped by the palate and never reach the vault at all. For an examination of the accessory cavities of the nose the reader is referred to p. 108. 2. Nose—Local Anaesthetics The drugs that may be employed for the induction of local anaesthesia of the mucous membrane of the nose and naso-pharynx are menthol, cocaine, eucaine, and chloretone ; in con- nection with these, for reasons to be presently stated, mention should be made of the liquid extract of the suprarenal gland. The above drugs possess, in varying degrees, an ischaimic as well as an antesthetic action, and their relative value depends upon the purposes for which they are required. The points to be considered are : (i.) Strength of solution required ; (ii.) method of application; (iii.) rapidity, intensity, and extent of antes- thesia produced ; (iv.) general and local action upon the circulation ; (v.) after effects. Menthol is of service in relieving local irrita- tion and congestion, and is employed in oily solutions of 10 to 30 grains to the ounce by means of a spray. The anaesthesia, compared with that produced by cocaine and eucaine, is slight and insufficient to permit of it being used in surgical work. Cocaine.—The strengths of solutions commonly recommended are excessive. For the purposes of examination of the nose, or the passing of a Eustachian catheter, a 5 per cent solution of the hydrochloride of cocaine may be used, but a 2 per cent solution, if freshly prepared, will generally produce sufficient anaesthesia and ischfemia. For operative purposes the strength of the solution should be from 10 to 15 per cent. It is important to remember that cocaine when kept in solution loses its anaesthetic action. Upon the method of application of the drug will largely depend the degree of anaesthesia produced, and consequently the degree of dis- comfort afforded to the patient, and the facilities to the operator. A spray used in the nares will not produce so uniform and localised an anaesthesia as a saturated pledget of cotton-wool carefully adjusted to the part to be treated. Moreover, sprays involve a waste of the drug, and are no doubt responsible for not a few of the toxic results. Speaking generally, a globular pledget introduced on forceps is not so efficacious as one spindle-shaped. A spindle- shaped pledget, an inch to an inch and a half in length, can be conveniently made by lightly wrapping absorbent wool round the tapering end of a small whalebone probe, which after being dipped in the solution of cocaine can be slipped into the nose so as to lie parallel with the turbinate body, the pledget being steadied with the points of forceps whilst the whalebone probe is withdrawn. For postnasal and nasopharyngeal operations local anaesthesia may he obtained by dropping the solution directly upon the part to be treated from a long straight nozzle of a syringe passed through the nares, the head being thrown backwards. Cocaine is perhaps more rapid and intense in its action than eucaine, and on that account may be regarded as the better anaesthetic; but it has its drawbacks, which will be presently mentioned. Gray ^ has pointed out that these drugs are more penetrating when dissolved in equal parts of dilute alcohol and aniline oil, and recommends a solution of five parts of cocaine dissolved in this vehicle for induction of anaes- thesia of the ear. This solution, he finds, pene- trates the tissues without destroying them, and produces a more complete anaesthesia than the aqueous. Unfortunately, alarming symp- toms of prostration, pallor, and cyanosis may follow, which must be ascribed to the toxic effect of the aniline oil.^ Another useful solution is a 5 per cent in equal parts of glycerine and rectified spirit. 1 Laved, April 21, 1900, vol. i. p. 1125. 2 Lavcef., April 20, 1900.