NEURASTHENIA 44 varied; they ought not to be obliged to get food for breakfast, etc., from cook-shops because the food provided at school is unattractive or badly cooked and served. With girls it is almost always difficult to get them to eat enough be- tween the ages of fourteen and eighteen ; if they are at all anaemic they are dainty and fastidious ; by eating little the anaemia is increased and the nutrition of the nervous system suffers with that of all their other tissues. Overstrain of mind or body in the young should be at least recog- nised as possible, and as far as may be it should be prevented. It is one of the advantages of resident schools over day schools that girls and boys living at school cannot work unreasonably much or late without the head of the house knowing it. When they live at home they fall between the authority of the school master or mistress and that of the mother, and practically they do pretty much what they like. At school there is much more play, more supervision, and more discipline than at home. Young women at college not very rarely produce varying degrees of neurasthenia by the combination of long hours of work, eating too little, and drink- ing tea and coffee to excess. Some of them think to take care of their health by being at the same time active members of several game clubs—hockey, tennis, etc. When the excite- ment ends and their place in the list is deter- mined, not a few are good for nothing for several years to come. It would have been infinitely wiser if they had eaten twice as much of plain food, taken less exercise, coffee only as a rare luxury, and tea not more than once or twice a day. They might possibly have had a less good place in the lists, but in its stead they would have had health and vigour, instead of exhaustion, on entering upon the work of their lives. The influence of coffee in inducing neur- asthenia is a point well worthy the attention of total abstainers. It works in two ways : by checking appetite, and by preventing sleep. The neurasthenic by inheritance wants to be well nourished, and he needs much sleep. He should shun coffee as he would poison. Dr. Beard points out that coffee does much less harm in very cold and in very hot climates than it does in England and in the temperate parts of America. Possibly the explanation of this, if it be true, is that neither in extreme cold nor in tropical heat is hard work of mind or body possible to the extent it is in temperate climates. Both heat and cold induce lethargy, that is, diminished activity of nerves, and the effect of coffee in conditions of lethargy, as for example in opium poisoning, is to bring up the activity of the nerves to the normal. They are not then over-stimulated by it, because they started from a lower plane of sensibility or of activity. They are roused up to the normal level instead of to a level beyond the normal. People ex- posed to severe cold even in England are in the same way better for taking coffee in moderation, and it does not then over-stimulate them. The varying influence of coffee in different climates fits in with the fact pointed out by Beard that neurasthenia is greatly more common in coun- tries which enjoy a temperate climate. Con- tinuous work here being possible, many more people suffer from nerve-exhaustion than in places where indolence is much more common (b) Curative.—The treatment of neurasthenia is much the same whether the condition is due to an accident, to overstrain, or to a faulty inheritance. The limitation of the patient's powers must be recognised, and all excessive calls upon them avoided. He wants a great deal of sleep and much food. When he sleeps soundly and eats liberally he is on the road to recovery. The difficulty of treatment lies mainly in the inability to sleep or eat naturally, and in adequate amount. Practically the im- portant question with all severe cases of neur- asthenia is whether the Weir-Mitchell method is necessary, or whether they can be cured by simpler means. No absolute indication can be given on this point. All severe and chronic cases should try the Weir-Mitchell plan fairly and fully if they can afford it. It costs up- wards of £200 if the after-cure holiday with a trained companion be included in the reckoning. An important point in the success of the Weir- Mitchell treatment is that the patient should wish to try it. If he is forced into it against his will, it often fails. The essential features of the method are absolute rest for some weeks, seclusion from friends, letters, family, etc.; a very liberal dietary, and massage and electricity to promote digestion and the nutrition of the muscles. Each case needs to be specially watched, and the diet to be suited to the powers of digestion. Very good nurses, too, are essen- tial. They must be bright, kindly, sensible, and agreeable. The main difficulty about applying the method is to find exactly the right kind of attendant. In favourable cases three stone of weight is put on in six weeks, the patient by the end of the course is sleeping naturally, and is presently able to resume ordinary life. Re- lapses, however, are not very imcommon, and patients are usually very unwilling to go through the treatment a second time. When it is impossible to order a course of this kind in the hands of experienced people something may be done, if the patient is docile and really willing to be cured (which is not invariably the case), by ordering a definite and large amount of rest, preferably with one companion away from home, and a definite and liberal dietary. Many slighter cases have, in the writer's experience, improved immensely by staying in bed till mid-day for a month, with window wide open day and night, in a quiet and sunny room, and with the addi- tion to each meal of a slice of old bread well buttered and a tumbler of milk. Of drugs