PARALYSIS 289 35 occurred in three families, while the remain- ing 19 were either sporadic or associated with one other case in the same family. On the other hand, the families in which the disease occurs are not of a degenerate type, nor un- usually subject to neuroses; in fact, Taylor states that the disease occurs in families of unusual nervous stability. In Craft's case, how- ever, there was a distinct neuropathic family history. The periodicity of the disease, the fact that malaria has been present in certain cases, and that the attacks have yielded to quinine, have led some observers to suggest that the condition is malarial in origin. There is, however, little evidence to show that the association of the two affections has been more than a coincidence, and the plasmodium has never been found in the blood from a case of periodic paralysis. The attacks often follow on muscular exertion, though this is by no means always the case, for some patients have attacks more frequently while at rest than when at work. In some cases certain articles of diet seem to have had the effect of producing an attack. Certain peculiarities in the physical develop- ment have been noted, and among these a condition of muscular hypertrophy, which did not correspond with the muscular strength. Symptom?..—The following may be taken as a general description of an attack which com- monly commences at night. If the patient is awake a feeling of weakness is experienced in the limbs. The loss of power begins in the proximal muscles of the legs, gradually passes to those more distal, and then affects the ab- dominal and intercostal muscles; but before the paralysis in these becomes complete it involves the proximal muscles of the arms, and then the distal muscles, the limbs becoming absolutely flaccid and powerless, and respiration being carried on by the diaphragm alone. Occa- sionally the face may be affected, and some of the other cranial nerves may be involved, but in most of the described cases the muscles of the face and jaw have escaped. There is no difficulty in articulation, and there is no incontinence of urine or faeces. There is no mental disturbance and no pain. The appetite is often lost, but there is no digestive dis- turbance, nor is there any difficulty in swallow- ing, nor does the patient experience dyspnoea. After the attack has reached its maximum, which it usually does in three to four hours, recovery begins to take place slowly, following the reverse order to that of the onset of the paralysis, i.e. the legs are the last to recover. The period of recovery is about the same length as the period of onset. In other cases the duration of the whole attack is longer, and in Taylor's case the patient who awoke paralysed in the morning did not begin to recover till the afternoon of the same day, VOL. VII and recovery was only complete on the following morning. Reflexes.—During the most profound stage of the attack all the deep reflexes are lost, and return as the motor power is restored to the limbs. The superficial reflexes are also gener- ally lost, but in some of the reported cases the abdominal and plantar reflexes have been present. In the intervals of health the reflexes are present and normal. Electrical Changes.—One of the most striking features of this disease is the loss of electrical excitability, which is to be noted on the examination of the muscles. In the free inter- vals the muscles have generally been found to give a quick and normal response both to the faradic and galvanic current. Both Goldflam and Taylor have, however, found diminished excitability in certain muscles even during the free interval, and also that the muscles undergo rapid fatigue. At the height of an attack there is complete loss of reaction, both to faradic and galvanic stimulation, and as recovery of motor power takes place the reaction to faradism and galvanism returns. A quantitative diminution in the reaction of the muscles of the face has also been observed. The muscles lose their mechanical irritability during the height of the attack, while they respond to a like stimulus during the free interval. Sensation remains perfectly normal during an attack, and there is no vaso-motor disturbance. The rectal and vesical functions remain normal; there is neither incontinence nor retention of urine, although the patient may not micturate for thirty-six hours. This lack of desire to micturate is probably due to diminished secretion, as there is no distension of the bladder. The bowels do not act during an attack. The temperature is practically unaffected during an attack. The pulse and respiration may both be slightly increased in rate, but not to any marked degree. Nothing abnormal can be detected in the lungs. In the heart, however, it has been noted that there is slight enlargement during an attack, and that a murmur indicative of mitral regurgitation becomes audible. As the patient recovers this passes off. No temporary enlargement of the spleen or liver has been detected, and there is no intestinal distension. The examination of the blood during an attack shows a marked lymphocytosis, which in Taylor's case was present also during the free intervals. Lymphocytosis is said to be normal for a child of ten, but not for a man of twenty. The examination of the urine has shown nothing abnormal, although in Craft's case more detailed examination was made, and an 19