173 OPHTHALMOPLEGIA muscles have become involved the disease ceases to spread, some of the muscles remaining unaffected, and there being also no extension to the bulbar nuclei. Sometimes the disease is progressive, spreading slowly to involve the different nuclei of origin of the imiscles or ex- tending to the nuclei of other cranial nerves. Ptosis is not very common in chronic oph- thalmoplegia, and the internal muscles fre- quently escape (Swanzy). The ocular symptoms are the same as those met with in other forms of ocular palsy. The general health is little affected unless other nuclei are involved. Some mental impairment is not infrequent. In addition to its occvirrence as an entity, or in association with bulbar paralysis, chronic ophthalmoplegia is a very characteristic associate of several forms of nervous disease. In tabes dorsalis diplopia from ocular palsy is a very frequent and often a very early symp- tom. The transient form Swanzy thinks due probably to vascular changes in the nuclei of origin, while the persistent paralysis of one or two muscles he thinks has more likely a peripheral origin. When a large number of muscles in both eyes are involved, or when associated muscles are singled out, a nuclear lesion is probably the cause. In general para- lysis and in disseminated sclerosis ophthalmo- plegia is occasionally observed, so too in exoph- thalmic goitre and some severe cases of multiple neuritis. The paralysis of accommodation following diphtheria is probably due rather to a peripheral than a nuclear lesion. Ophthalmo- plegia interna is the term used by Hutchinson to indicate paralj^sis of the internal muscles of the eye characterised by dilatation of the pupil and loss of power of accommodation. The pupil and the ciliary muscles may, however, be affected singly—partial ophthalmoplegia interna. Acute ophthalmoplegia is very much less common and less important than the preced- ing. Only a small number of cases have been described, and nearly all of these have been associated with chronic alcoholism. The disease is usually sudden in origin, with severe symp- toms of cerebral disturbance, e.g. delirium, vomiting, somnolence. In some cases optic neuritis appears in the course of the disease. Death generally results within a fortnight from 'nvolvement of the bulbar nuclei. Small hsem- orrhages in the nuclei have been found on post-mortem examination, probably associated with vascular disease. In some cases no gross changes have been observed in the nuclei, and the ophthalmoplegia observed may, in such cases, have been due to a toxsemic poisoning of the nerve centres. Subacute cases of nuclear palsy, with less violent symptoms and uncompli- cated with bulbar lesions, have been recorded. Etiology of Ophthalmoplegia.—Syphilis and alcoholism are undoubtedly the most important factors in the causation of this disease. As Gowers points out, the relation to syphilis in these degenerative diseases is more often under than over rated. Among other causes have been quoted exposure to cold and poisoning by various agents, as lead, nicotine, CO2, HqSO^, and the toxines of putrefying meat. Occasionally it has followed such diseases as influenza. In some cases no definite etiological factor can be traced. Pathology.—Gowers and others have demon- strated the degenerative processes in the nuclei, which consist chiefly in atrophy and disappear- ance of the nerve-cells, but the degenerative process doubtless affects the whole motor neuron. Treatment.—The treatment is to be directed to the primary cause if such can be traced. The ocular palsies associated with tabes are very little affected by treatment, but sometimes pass off spontaneously. The cases associated with bulbar symptoms are usually unaffected by treatment. Cases where the disease is con- fined to the ocular nuclei, and where a distinct syphilitic origin can be traced, are often greatly benefited by vigorous treatment with mercury and iodide of potassium. As tonic and nerve stimulants, arsenic and strychnine, the latter hypodermically, have found most favour. Electrical treatment is not now considered to be of much value, though formerly much employed. If the diplopia is very troublesome it may be necessary to give the patient an opaque glass before one eye. The prisms required to enable the patient to fuse the double images are usually much too strong to be worn as spectacles. Operative treatment is occasionally indicated, especially in slight cases of long standing. Diagnosis. — The chief points indicating a nuclear origin for an ocular palsy are bilateral occurrence, symmetrical affection of the muscles, rarity of the ptosis, the paralysis of the external muscles without involvement of the internal, and vice versa. In complete paralysis of all the ocular muscles the lesion may be nuclear, or may be due to injury of the nerves at the base of the brain on their way to the orbits. OphthalmoptOSiS. — Protrusion of the eyeball, or exophthalmos. Ophthalmo-Reaction.—The name given to a test for tuberculosis recently intro- duced by Calmette. If a single drop of a "5-1 per cent solution of dry tuberculin in distilled water be instilled into one eye of a person suffering from tuberculosis, a reaction, beginning with injection and swelling of the caruncle and going on to a mild attack of conjunctivitis, occurs in from five to ten hours after instillation. Sufficient time has not yet elapsed (1907) to determine whether the test is pathognomonic, but the reports published up to the present tend to confirm the value of a positive reaction in