255 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF cal incision through the centre of the right rectus a little ascitic fluid, deeply bile-stained, escaped. The liver was found to be enlarged nearly to the umbilicus. It was dark and mottled, and showed evidences of cirrhosis, ap- parently due to biliary stagnation. The gall- bladder was thickened but not greatly distended, though it had evidently been inflamed, as ad- hesions were found between it and the cystic and common ducts and the neighbouring vis- cera, stomach, duodenum, and colon. The foramen of Winslow was obliterated by ad- hesions. The head of the pancreas was much enlarged and widened in area so that it extended some distance up the side of the common duct, which it enveloped. A hard nodule could be felt in the head of the pancreas, which hardness could be traced into the wall of the duodenum, and which faded off' into the body of the pan- creas, the body and tail of the organ being apparently of almost normal consistency. Ad- joining the portion of the pancreas, which was stony hard, could be seen a number of lobules of the pancreas, which were firmer than normal and very definitely outlined, a condition which I had seen in a number of cases of chronic inter- stitial pancreatitis on which I had previously operated. The localised hardness raised the question as to whether there might be a growth of the papilla extending into the duodenum, or whether there might possibly be a pancreatic calculus impacted in the duct. I therefore felt it desirable thoroughly to explore the pancreas, and to this end the visceral peritoneum was incised over the duodenum and stripped from the pancreas. An incision was made into the indurated area and a portion of the hardened mass was removed. Although very hard, it did not cut like cartilage, and had not the appear- ance of a malignant growth. No calculus could be found. The incision in the pancreas was then closed by several cat-gut sutures and the peritoneum replaced. The duodenum was then opened in the centre of the descending portion, when a hard nodule was felt on the inner side of the papilla, and this proved to be continuous with the stony hard lump in the head of the pancreas. I suspected that it was an accessory pancreas in the wall of the duodenum. It was not ulcerated, and did not give me the impres- sion of being malignant. The common bile- duct was clearly compressed by the hardened head of the pancreas, and in order to establish drainage of the infected bile the only desirable course seemed to be that of performing a chole- cyst-enterostomy. The opening made for ex- ploration into the duodenum was therefore united to one made in the fundus of the gall- bladder by means of a Murphy button, and the abdomen was closed without drainage. The operation was unaccompanied by haemorrhage, as chloride of calcium had been given in 20-grain doses thrice daily for three days before operation. and the drug was continued subsequently to operation in 30-grain doses in the nutrient in- jections for a few days. The after progress was very satisfactory; the wound healed entirely by first intention, and the jaundice began to diminish visibly within two days of operation. His bowels were moved on the fourth day after a dose of calomel, the motions showing the presence of bile. His appetite rapidly returned, and after the button had passed on the tenth day he was allowed to take food freely, his appetite being very keen. At first the motions were bulky, frequent, and offensive, evidently due to the passage of undigested milk. Pan- kreon tablets were therefore given after each meal, with the result that the food was better digested and the motions were diminished in number. Subsequent History.—When seen three months later the patient had gained three stones in weight, had lost his jaundice, and was well in every respect. When heard of two years later he was in perfect health. These cases are given as characteristic examples out of over 100 that I have operated on for this disease. Treatment.—Before considering either medical or surgical treatment of pancreatic catarrh or of interstitial pancreatitis, I should like to urge the importance of preventive treatment by at- tention to the causes, some of which, such as gall-stones, are removable by operation in the early stages with a very small risk, not more than 1 per cent in skilled hands; again, duo- denal catarrh as a cause of pancreatic catarrh and of interstitial pancreatitis is remediable by medical treatment; and duodenal ulcer, another cause, if not remedied by careful and thorough general treatment, can be cured by gastro- enterostomy with a very small risk, as shown by the results in my last series of 100 cases of gastro-enterostomy for gastric and duodenal ulcer, with a mortality of 1 per cent. If, after a fair trial of general treatment, not too long- continued, the symptoms persist, and the signs of failure in pancreatic digestion and metabolism are manifesting themselves, the question of sur- gical treatment should be seriously considered, especially when the disease is associated with jaundice, for the condition is one that, if not relieved eai'ly, will certainly lead to serious degeneration both of the liver and pancreas, and become dangerous to life in several ways. Rational treatment should aim at the cause, whether that be gall-stones, pancreatic calculi, duodenal catarrh, duodenal or gastric ulcer, alcoholism or syphilis. In operating for chronic pancreatitis when medical treatment has failed to relieve, the surgeon must be prepared to do a thorough operation, so as to expose the whole length of the common bile-duct as well as the head of the pancreas. He will then be able to remove the