175 OPIUM 5-15 m. 3. Trochiscus Movphinge. gr. in each. 4. Trochiscus Morphinse et Ipecacuanhee. .-^ gr. in each. 5. Suppositoria Morphinte. I gr. in each. Morphin/e Acetas is more soluble than the hydrochloride, but it is rather unstable and is therefore not much used. Dose — i" ^ Preparation — Liquor Morphinse Acetati. Strength, 1 per cent. Dose—10-60 m. MoRPHiNiE Tartras is soluble 1 in 11 of water, but not in alcohol. Dose—gr. Prepara- tion— 1. Injectio Morphinae Hypodermica. Strength, 5 per cent. Dose — 2-5 m. hypo- dermically. 2. Liquor Morphinte Tartratis. Strength, 1 per cent. Dose—10-60 m. Mor- phine Sulphas is non-official but is largely used, particularly in the United States. Dionin is Ethyl-Morphine Hydrochloride, and Heroin Hydrochloride is Diacetyl Morphine Hydro- chloride. Apomorphine is morphine less one molecule of water. Generally speaking, the action of opium is first stimulant and then depressant, the latter effect being the more prominent and persistent and the one of which use is made therapeuti- cally. In those who are habituated to the use of the drug the stimulant phase is considerably more noticeable. The pulse, after a temporary acceleration, becomes slower and fuller. The respirations are diminished in frequency, and in cases of overdose, death takes place from paralysis of the respiratory centres in the medulla oblongata. The activity of the stomach and intestines is diminished by reason of stimu- lation of the splanchnic inhibitory fibres; but in very large doses peristalis may be increased by paralysis of these fibres. Metabolism all over the body is decreased, and all secretions are checked with the single exception of that of the skin, which is increased. Its most important action, that on the nervous system, is of a complex nature and varies consider- ably in different individuals. In most people the primary stimulant effect, which is such a prominent feature in the lower animals, is hardly noticeable; but in a few, great excite- ment and even delirium follow its administration. Its dominant action, however, is sedative, small doses being anodyne and larger ones hypnotic. The predominating influence is on the higher mental functions and the sensory nervous mechanism, the motor and vasomotor centres, the cord, the nerves, and the muscles being little affected. Large doses lower the body temperature. The pupil is contracted as the result of stimulation of the pupillary centres, and perhaps by depression of the sympathetic fibres. Opium is badly tolerated by those at the extremes of life, and should not be given at all or only given with great caution to children and the aged. Untoward symptoms following the employment of opium, and attributable to idiosyncrasy, may often be combated by the simultaneous administration of nitroglycerin or bromide. Opium in one form or another is the most powei'ful pain-reliever we possess, and no drug has yet been discovered which equals it in this respect. It is an infallible remedy for the alleviation of all forms of pain, but on account of its disagreeable side and after effects, and the facility with which the " opium habit" is acquired, its employment in the treatment of many painful diseases has to be restricted or absolutely prohibited. In violent painful seizures such as renal and biliary colic, and in pain associated with acute ilhiess, opium should never be withheld unless there exist some absolute contraindications to its use ; but in neuralgia, dysmenorrhoea, and other forms of less severe and particularly of recurring pain, it should either be totally avoided or only made use of as a last resource. In acute abdominal disease, whether of an inflammatory or obstruc- tive nature, it should never be employed, in the early stages at any rate, except by those of the widest experience, for the feeling and appear- ance of comfort and well-being derived from it by the patient result in an entirely false and temporary improvement which, if misinterpreted, may lead to a fatal postponement of surgical intervention. When this danger is thoroughly appreciated, however, opium is of great help in the treatment of these diseases by giving rest and sleep to the patient and by retarding the progress of inflammatory processes. As an external application to unbroken skin opium is a harmless addition to poultices and fomenta- tions, and has usually a distinct beneficial eff"ect, although the rationale of its action in this respect is not understood. In most painful conditions opium is given in the form of a hypo- dermic injection of morphia, but in some dis- eases its administration by the mouth as laud- anum, nepenthe, etc., or by the rectum as a suppository or starch enema, is to be preferred. For the relief of pain due to incurable and fatal diseases opium should be prescribed without compunction—indeed, it is unjustifiable to with- hold it—and for such cases heroin is particularly suitable. As a hypnotic in cases of simple in- somnia or of secondary sleeplessness likely to be of long dui'ation, opium is to be avoided ; but it is employed with excellent results for the per- sistent sleeplessness of acute diseases such as pneumonia and typhoid fever, where nervous exhaustion results from the want of sleep. It is advantageous in such cases to combine morphia with some other hypnotic, such as chloral. Opium appears to possess some im- perfectly understood influence over inflammatory processes, and, with the restrictions stated above with regard to abdominal cases, small doses are very valuable in cases of pleurisy, meningitis, pericarditis, peritonitis, and the like. In mild febrile attacks, such as common cold, influenza, etc., its diaphoretic action enhances its useful- ness. Opium relieves cough, and forms an