PALATE 233 buccal aspects of each maxillary process a palatal plate, which, by joining with its fellow of the opposite side in the median line, forms the whole of the soft palate and the hard palate, with the exception of the intermaxillary portion. The hard palate is completed by the junction of the anterior portions of the palatal plates with the intermaxillary portion, a space, the anterior palatine canal, being left in the median line ; the entire palatine suture is thus Y-shaped, the junction of the units being at the canal. The nasal cavity becomes divided into two halves by the growth downwards from the under surface of the fronto-nasal process of a vertical septum which vmites with the palate. From this septum the ethmoid, vomer, and cartilaginous septum are developed. The union of the various parts described is completed by the sixth to the tenth week. The fissure (naso-orbital) which separates the fronto-nasal from the maxillary process is closed, except the part which forms the nasal duct, by the union of the external nasal and internal nasal processes with the maxillary process. The continuity of the upper lip is established by the internal nasal and maxillary processes uniting below the external nasal process. The external nasal and superior maxillary processes unite first. The alveolus and upper lip are complete by the ninth week, at which period the union of the palate is commencing from before back- wards, being generally completed by the tenth week. The origin of the congenital malformations of the face and mouth can now be considered from their developmental aspect. Macrostoma arises from non-union of the mandibular and maxillary px'ocesses, while Mi- crostoma is caused by the union of these processes passing beyond the normal degree. Mandibular Cleft is the result of failure of fusion of the mandibular processes in the middle line. Facial Cleft is due to non-closure of the naso-orbital fissure. Median Hare-Lip presents two forms. 1. The severe form in which, in consequence of the non-development of the internal nasal processes, the central portion of the upper lip, the inter- maxilla, and the nasal septum, are absent. 2. In the second variety a median cleft in the upper lip arises in consequence of non-union of the two internal nasal processes. The fissure, if extending to the bones, passes between the two endognathia. Lateral Hare-Lip, when simple, i.e. limited to the soft parts, arises from failure of union between the internal nasal process with the maxillary process ; if alveolar, non-union exists between the same processes superficially, and below and above, and on the deep side between the external and internal nasal processes in addition. Cleft Palate is due to non-closure of the palatal plates. When the fissure passes beyond the anterior palatine canal it may pass between any of the intermaxillary sutures. The cleft usually runs on one or both sides, between the endognathion and mesognathion. Congenital Deformities of the Face and Mouth.—^The rarer conditions will be briefly referred to, and the commoner forms, hare-lip and cleft palate, considered in greater detail. Macrostoma. — Non-union of the maxillary and mandibular processes give rise to this de- formity, which consists in enlargement of the mouth in the transverse diameter. The extent of the fissure varies from a slight enlargement of the angle of the mouth to a gap in the cheek reaching to the last molar tooth, and sometimes as far as the auricle. If unilateral, the deficiency is usually on the right side; not infrequently the condition is bilateral. There may be other associated de- formities, such as accessory auricular append- ages, defective formation of the external ear, hare-lip, cleft palate, an imperfectly developed brain. Treatment.—Operative treatment is necessary, not only to remedy the deformity, but to im- prove the nutrition of the child. When the cleft is extensive suckling is difficult, if not impossible, food is not retained in the mouth, and saliva constantly escapes. The edges of the cleft must be pared and carefully united by suture, attention being specially directed to the mucous membrane at the angle of the mouth. Microstoma is a congenital narrowing of the mouth, brought about by union taking place between the mandibular and maxillary processes to an abnormal extent. In severe cases the opening representing the mouth may be scarcely large enough to admit a probe ; not infrequently there is a deficiency of the lower jaw. Treatment.—In well-marked cases a mouth is to be formed by making a transverse incision on either side, and accurately uniting the mucous membrane to the skin. Mandibular Cleft is one of the rarest of the congenital deformities met with in connection with the mouth. Its etiology lies in the non- closure of the lateral segments of the mandibular processes. The degree of deformity varies to a consider- able extent. Complete closure of the processes may be represented merely by two sinuses or openings in the mucous membrane of the lower lip. Such sinuses discharge mucus secreted by the glands which line their walls, and are not uncommonly associated with double hare-lip. A similar sinus has been met with in the upper lip, occupying the site of an ordinary hare-lip.