5 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ulcerations, whitlows, small sloughings, and occasionally more extensive gangrene, are met with. Arthropathies generally appear as acute swellings, with or without pain and redness. In this stage the condition is one of synovial eft'usion, and resembles in appearance an acute rheumatic affection. Rarely proceeding to sup- puration, the effusion generally reaches its height in a few days, and then subsides slowly, leaving considerable thickening of the joint capsule and a great tendency to the formation of periarticular and intra-articular cicatrices. Serious deformities and ankyloses are apt to be thus produced, especially in the fingers. Less commonly than the joints, the sheaths of tendons may present similar changes. Atrophic changes in the bones are occasionally described, but rarely attain to any clinical importance. Trophic changes of the skin are generally met with in anaesthetic regions, or less commonly in association with hypersesthesia. They are limited to the cutaneous distribution of the affected nerve. They are, as a rule, somewhat late phenomena, and they follow all forms of nerve injury. The deeper trophic lesions, on the other hand, concern the paralysed muscles with their adjacent joints, are usually of early appearance, and are seldom met with except in complete nerve section. The progress of a case of nerve injury will depend mainly upon the facility with which the nerve can be regenerated, and hence upon pathological peculiarities which have already been referred to. Should there be no regenera- tion—as in cases of wide separation, extensive contusion, or interposition of other structures between the cut ends—no recovery is possible, and such slight improvement as may gradually occur is due solely to the vicarious action of adjacent muscles and nerves. On the other hand, regeneration or restoration of physiological continuity is followed by the gradual restoration of sensation and motor power, although it is -doubtful whether such recovery is ever quite complete in the case of large trunks. The time required for recovery is very great, and may extend to months or years. It is longer in the case of the larger trunks, and is shorter in the young than in later life. It is interesting to note in this connection that although it is inconceivable that all the repaired axis cylinders should grow down into the tracts with which they were previously connected, there is little or no confusion in the passage of spinal impulses to the muscles. Confusion of sensory localisa- tion is, however, not uncommon, and frequently of long duration. Treatmeistt.—The regeneration of nerves and restoration of their functions is materially aided by such measures as the use of local warmth, massage, and electrical stimulation of paralysed muscles, protection from irritations which evoke trophic changes, prevention of malpositions which may lead to deformities, and guarding against ankylosis of inflamed joints. All such measures must, however, be regarded as sub- sidiary, and in all practicable cases suture of a divided nerve should be imdertaken as a prim- ary or secondary operation. Primary suture is performed at the time of injury; secondary sviture is practised at a later date, and should only be undertaken after the original wound has healed, or in cases of severe contusion which have proved incapable of spontaneous recovery. As aseptic healing is essential to the success of these operations, they should never be attemjited in an inflamed or suppurating wound. Primary suture is usually readily affected through a traumatic wound which may, if necessary, be extended along the divided nerves. The cut ends are exposed, bleeding is arrested, and sutures are then applied so as to bring the nerve ends into contact, a proceeding which is seldom difficult if aided by flexion of joints or other suitable fixation of the limb. The cut ends should be interfered with as little as possible, but if bruised they may be freshened by a sharp cut with the scissors; the sutures should be of chromicised catgut or kangaroo tendon, and as few and delicate as is consistent with security—they are passed directly through the nerve-fibres, most easily by means of curved needles with round points, and they should be tied only sufficiently tightly to produce apposi- tion ; for all ordinary purposes, such as suture of the median, radial, and ulnar nerves, two such sutures passed about an eighth of an inch above and below the cut surfaces will suffice. If there be much tension an extra tension suture may be passed some distance beyond the cut ends, and in the case of large trunks " para-neural" sutures may be passed through the sheath. Unabsorbable materials should never be used for these purposes, as they may produce ex- tremely painful scars. The results of primary suture are usually good, although recovery is often very slow, and is at first disappointing to the patient and possibly to the surgeon ; it is rare to find any evidence of restored function in less than two months after the operation. In certain cases it is stated that such suture is immediately followed by return of previously abolished functions, and it is claimed that we have here a "primary union " of the divided axis cylinders without the complicated process of degeneration and regeneration above described. In the lower animals, and especially in birds, such a condition appears to be by no means very uncommon, but in man the evidence in favour of its occurrence is less satisfactory. The observations are based largely upon the return of sensation, which is open to the objection that it involves a sub- jective element on the part of the patient. Further, it is found that sensation thus rapidly restored is apt to prove evanescent, and it is