546 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM the temporal bone (Fig. 76). Its outer wall is formed by a membrane, the memhrana tympani (Tt/.), which is attached to a ring of bone. Its inner wall presents two openings into the in- ternal ear—the fenestra ovalis (f.o.), an oval opening, situated anteriorly and above, and the fenestra rotunda (fr.), a round opening placed below and behind. Throughout life these are closed: the former by the foot of the stapes, which is attached to the margin of the hole by a membrane ; the latter by a membrane. The posterior wall shows openings into the mastoid cells, and presents a small bony projection, which transmits the stapedius muscle. The anterior wall has above a bony canal carrying the tensor tympani muscle, and below this the canal of the Eustachian tube, which communi- cates with the posterior nares (Fig. 76, Ent.). In the tympanic cavity are three ossicles— the malleus (m.), incus (^'.), and stapes (s.), forming a chain between the membrana tympani and the fenestra ovalis. The handle of the malleus is attached to the membrana tympani, and each time a wave of condensation hits the membrane it drives in the handle of the malleus. This, by a small process, pushes inwards the long process of the incus, which thrusts the stapes into the fenestra ovalis, and thus in- creases the pressure in the enclosed fluid of the internal ear. The fenestra rotunda (fr.) with its membrane acts as a safety valve. The bones rotate round an antero-posterior axis passing through the heads of the malleus and incus. They thus form a lever with the arm to which the power is applied—the handle of the malleus —longer than the other arm. The advantage of this is that, while the range of movement of the stapes in the fenestra ovalis is reduced, its force is proportionately increased. The range of the movement is still further controlled by the stapedius muscle, which twists the stapes in the fenestra. This muscle seems to act when loud sounds fall on the ear, and when its nerve supply, derived from the facial nerve, is paralysed, such sounds are heard with painful intensity. If the membrana tympani is violently forced outwards by closing the nose and mouth and forcing air up the Eustachian tube, the incus and stapes do not accompany the malleus and membrane, since the malleo-incal articulation becomes unlocked. The membrana tympani is so loosely slung that it has no proper note of its own, and responds to a very large range of vibrations. By the attachment to it of the handle of the malleus it is well damped, and stops vibrating as soon as waves of condensation and rarefaction have ceased to fall upon it. The tensor tym- pani muscle, supplied by the fifth cranial nerve, has some action in favouring the vibration of the membrane, and its paralysis diminishes the acuteness of hearing. Fig. 77. — Transverse section through car- tilaginous lower part of Eustachian tube to show the cartilagin- ous arch cut across and the way in which it is pulled down and the tube opened in swallowing (shaded). The Eustachian tube has a double function. It allows the escape of mucus from the middle ear, and it allows the entrance of air, so that the pressure is kept equal on both sides of the membrana tympani. Its lower part is generally closed, but opens in the act of swallowing. It is surrounded by an arch of cartilage, to one side of which fibres of the tensor palati are attached, so that when this muscle acts in swallowing, the arch of cartilage is drawn down and flattened, and the tube opened up (Fig. 77). When the Eustachian tube gets occluded, as a result of catarrh of the pharynx, the oxygen in the middle ear is absorbed by the tissues, and the pressure falls. As a re- sult, the membrane is driven inwards by the atmospheric pressure, and does not readily vibrate, and hearing is impaired. 4. Internal Ear.—The internal ear is a some- what complex cavity in the petrous part of the temporal bone, the osseous labyrinth. It is filled with fluid, the perilymph. It consists of a central space, the vestibule (V.), into which the fenestra ovalis opens. From the anterior part of this, a canal makes two and a half turns round a central pillar, and then, turning sharply on itself, makes the same number of turns down again, and ends at the fenestra rotunda. This is the osseous cochlea (Fig. 76, Cock.). The ascending and descending canals are separated from one another, partly by a bony plate, partly by a membranous partition—the basilar mem- brane. At the base, the bony lamella is broad, but at the apex its place is chiefly taken by the membrane, which measures at the apex more than ten ,^ times its width at the base. From the pos- terior and superior aspect of the vesti- bule a mechanism unconnected with hearing has been evolved. Three semicircular canals (Fig. 78), each with a swelling at one end, open into the vestibule. One runs in the horizontal plane, and has the swelling or ampulla anteriorly (Fig. 78, h.c). The other two run in vertical planes placed obliquely to the middle plane, as is indicated in Fig. 78. The anterior or superior canal (s.c.) has its ampulla in front, and the posterior (p.c.) has its ampulla behind. They join together, and enter the vestibule by a common orifice. In the perilymph of the bony labyrinth lies h.c. Fig. 78.—The relationship of the semi- circular canals to one another. h.c. Horizontal canal; i.e., su- perior canal; p.c, posterior canal.