PARASITES 359 Other species of the same genus as Anhylos- toma duodenale are seen in some of the lower animals. The most important is Uncinaria t7'igonocephala, found in the small intestine and caecum of the dog and fox. It causes severe and often fatal anaemia in packs of hounds, but is not transferable to man. The only other representative of the Strongylidfe to which reference can be made is Sclerostovia equinum; Syn.: Strongylus armatus. It is a common parasite. The adults inhabit the cgecum and upper part of the colon of the Equidse. The eggs are passed from the bowel, and after the embryos have been hatched out and ingested by the horse, they are chiefly found causing aneurysms of the mesenteric vessels. The thrombi often break up to form simple or septic emboli. AscaridyE have three oral papillse, one dorsal and two ventral. There are two genera: Ascaris and Oxyuris Ascaris lumbricoides common round worm. I \\\ (Linne, 1758); the In general form it somewhat resembles the common earth- worm, being cylindrical, pointed at both ends, and of a pinkish-yellow or greyish-yellow col- our. It inhabits the upper portions of the small intestine. The male measures 15-25 cm. in length, 0'3 cm. in diameter, the caudal end being ventrally curved and bearing two spicules. The female is larger, and may be as much as 40 cm. long and 0'5 cm. broad. The ovaries are convoluted, and about ten times the length of the female worm. The vulva is at the junction of the middle and anterior thirds of the body. The eggs are oval, about 50-70 /a long and 40-55 fj. broad, reddish- brown, and have a thick shell, outside which there is often a clear, irregular, albuminous sheath. The eggs are present in great numbers in the ffeces, and if they be exposed to moisture after having been expelled from the host, an embryo is slowly or rapidly developed within each egg according to the prevailing tempera- ture, but usually in five or six weeks. Infection occurs, without there being any intermediate F Fig. 24.—Ascans lumbricoides: M, male; F, female; half nat. size. (After Thoma.) Fig. 25.—El s of Ascaris lumbricoides. (After Mosler and Peiper.) host, by means of contaminated drinking water, or by the transference to the mouth of such eggs as contain embryos by the hands after they have been in contact with contaminated soil, and in about ten or twelve weeks fresh ova are being discharged into the intestinal canal of the host. Ascaris lumbricoides is found in all parts of the world, and is one of the commonest parasites. It is particularly common during childhood and pu- berty, and each host harbours one, two, or pos- sibly hundreds of the worms. The disturbance re- sulting from in- testinal ascarides is, as a rule, proportionate to their numbers. If there are more than one or two, they usually cause catarrhal inflam- mation with diarrhoea, and not infrequently small punctate wounds of the mucous mem- brane. In rare instances, when there are many worms, they have been known to be coiled up into a mass sufficiently large to cause in- testinal obstruction. The ascaris, however, does not always remain confined within the intestine, for it exhibits a marked propensity to migrate. It frequently wanders to the stomach (whence it may be vomited), to the oesophagus, pharynx, mouth, trachea, lungs, nasal cavity, accessory sinuses of the nose, or bile-ducts. The intestinal ascaris may be ex- pected to have numerous intestinal bacteria on its surface, and to transport them into whatever part of the body it migrates. Demateis (1900) also shows that there are both saprophytic and pathogenetic bacteria, bacterium coli, bacillus acidi lactici, streptococci, and others in the in- testine of ascarides. These facts explain why it is that when the worms wander into the bile- ducts they cause hepatic abscesses, and when they migrate to the lungs, cause pulmonary abscess or gangrene. The worms may also migrate from the alimentary canal through the anus, and may then wander into the vagina. Again, the worms have been known to perforate the intestinal wall and cause a localised abscess or peritonitis, and may also migrate into and perforate through the wall of the vermiform appendix causing appendicitis. Perforation of the intestine is fortunately, however, a relatively rare occurrence. There are some authorities who do not believe that ascarides are ever able to penetrate through the healthy intestinal wall, although admitting that the worms may pene- trate through at situations where there are ulcers of tubercular, typhoid, or other nature. In many patients there are nervous symptoms which used to be commonly regarded as reflex phenomena, but which are now often referred to