362 PARASITES and if it subsequently gain access to the nasal cavity of another host, it then develops into the adult Linguatida. The adult has very rarely been observed in man, but statistics show that the presence of one or two examples of the larva is not very uncommon in the human liver in Germany, Austria, Russia, and Switzerland. The larva does not cause evident symptoms, and is only detected post-mortem. Forocephalus constrictus (v. Siebold, 1852); Syn.: Pentastomum constrictum (v. Siebold, 1852).—Only the larva is known. It is 13 mm. long, and has in a few cases, and mainly in Egypt, been found in the human liver. (c) Rynchota, or Hemiptera, are all ectozoa. The four chief species are : Pediculus cajntis, Pediculus vestimentorum, Pediculus pubis {Phthi- rius inguinalis), and Cimex lectularius (the bed bug). Vide " Pediculosis." (d) Diptera. Vide article, " Myiasis." All the adult parasitic Dip)tera are ectozoa, obtain- ing nourishment from the skin of their host. Such are Pulex irritans (the common flea), Sarcopsylla pyenetrans (sand flea), found in Central and South America, and on the West Coast of Africa, and other stinging and blood- sucking insects. Lastly, the larvse of Diptera may be entozoa, living chiefly within the skin, the nasal cavities, or alimentary canal of their host, and causing the condition termed Myiasis. Pa,ra,Siticicle.—A substance or drug which has a fatal effect upon parasites, e.g. those of the intestine, when the parasiticide is called an anthelmintic (Male Fern, Santonin, etc.), or those of the skin (Stavesacre, Sulphur, Mercurial preparations, etc.). ParasitolOgry.—The branch of medicine or biology which deals with parasites and parasitism. See Parasites. Parasol Insertion. — An abnormal mode of attachment of the umbilical cord to the placenta: the funis, a few inches from its insei'tion into the placenta, ceases to have a cord-like appearance, and its vessels pass out- wards to be attached to the foetal surface of the afterbirth, like the spokes of an umbrella. Parasternal.—Beside the sternum; thus the term parasternal line is used to indicate an imaginary vertical line passing midway between the lateral margin of the sternum and the nipple line or (more correctly) the mid- clavicular line. Parasynovitis. — Inflammation of the tissues in the neighbourhood of a joint, or, more particularly, of the connective tissue next to the synovial membrane. Parasyphilis. —The group of morbid conditions which are regai'ded as due indirectly to syphilis, which have not its anatomo-patho- logical characters, and over which mercury and the iodides have no remedial power; tabes dorsalis and general paralysis are generally regarded as parasyphilitic. See Syphilis (Classification, Parasyphilis). Parathyroid.—Lying at the side of the thyroid gland, or, more particularly, the para- thyroid glands, two in number on each side, which lie near the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {^Anatomy and Physiology); Physiology, Internal Secre- tions OR Hormones {Parathyroids). Paratonia. — Overstrain or over-exten- sion. ParatrichOSiS.—A morbid development of hair either in the direction of defect, or of its presence in parts from which it is usually absent. Paratuberculosis. — A group of morbid conditions regarded as indirectly due to tuberculosis, or of conditions which are not in themselves tuberculous but to which tuberculous subjects are prone. Paratyphlitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue in the neighbourhood of, and especially behind, the caecum. See Appendix, Diseases of {Appendicitis, Introduction). Paratyphoid.—A morbid condition simulating typhoid fever clinically, but lacking the Widal reaction; it is not due to the typhoid bacillus but to the paracolon bacillus. See Typhoid Fever ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Bastard Typhoid). Paratypical.—Not regular or typical in character. Pa.ravag'initiS. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the vagina ; para- colpitis. Pa.ra.vesical. — Situated beside the bladder, e.g. the paravesical fossa, which (when the bladder is empty) is a shallow depression of the peritoneum at the side of the bladder. Paraxial.—Lying beside the axis of the body, e.g. the 2Mraxial mesoderm of the embryo (two bars of mesodermal tissue which lie one at each side of the neural tube). Parchment Crackiing.—The peculiar crackling sensation perceived by the fingers when they palpate areas of delayed ossification in the cranium of rachitic infants {cranio-tabes). See Rickets. Paregoric.—Literally, the term paregoric (Gr. TrapT^yopco), I comfort) means soothing, but it is specially applied to the Tinctura Camphorae Composita, which contains 2 grains of opium in