PARAMENIA 332 Pa.ra.menia,. — Irregular or disordered menstruation. Parametritis. — Inflammation of the cellular tissue (chiefly in the broad ligaments) in the neighbourhood of the uterus. See Pelvis, Diseases op the Cellular Tissue {Pelvic Cellu- litis) ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Puerperal In- fection, Parametritis). Parametritis Chronica Atro- phicans.—A chronic inflammatory process producing cirrhotic contraction and hardening of the pelvic connective tissue, similar to that occurring in the liver or kidneys ; it may be either diftuse or circumscribed; it has no acute stage. Param i m ia. — Disordei'ed gestures ; a form of aphasia in which the gestures used by the patient do not agree with the words spoken. Paramnesia.—An ailection of the memory in which the signification of words heard or seen is forgotten; or, an illusion of memory by which the individual thinks he has already passed through an experience which he is only now experiencing. See Sleep, Normal AND Morbid {Hypnagogic State, Paramnesia in Alcoholics). Paramusia.—Perversion of the musical sense, wrong notes at improper intervals being- produced ; it occurs in some forms of aphasia. Paramyoclonus Multiplex. See Spasm ( Varieties, Ftmctional); Hysteria {Motor Disorders, Saltatorius Spasm). Paramyosinogen. —A protein (globu- lin) of muscle, which by clotting produces myosin and causes rigor mortis. See Physi- ology, Tissues {Muscle, Chemistry). Paramyotonia Cong^enita. See Muscles, Diseases of {Myotonia Congenita or Thomsen's Disease). Paranephritis. — Inflammation of the adrenal gland {paranephros) or of the cellular tissue in the neighbourhood of the kidney. Paranephros.— The suprarenal cap- sule or adrenal gland. See Adrenal Glands, Diseases of. ParaneUriSm us. —A nervous affection. Paranoia. Synonyms : Delusional Insanity, Monomania, Megalomania, Delire de persecution, Delire des degeneres, Verriicktheit, Chronischer Wahnsinn. See also Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility). The term " paranoia," introduced by the German physician von Gudden, is not a convenient one either from the etymological or descriptive standpoint, but its very general acceptance in Germany and in America renders its change undesirable in the interest of uniformity. The nomenclature of the various groups of mental aff"ections which it embraces is so diverse, and the ambiguity arising fi'om the apparently contradictory views of numerous writers is so confusing, that a brief resume of the historical development of our knowledge of the subject is necessary for the purpose of correctly under- standing it. The disease was first called mononiania by Esquirol, who defined it as "a chronic cerebral afl'ection without fever, and characterised by a partial lesion of the intelligence, the aff'ections, or the will." Prichard cut through Esquirol's definition by describing two distinct aff'ections —moral insanity and monomania. The effect of Prichard's writings on European opinion was profound, and his views are still regarded as final by many of his countrymen, for he was the first and the last English psychiatrist to contribute essentially to the knowledge of the subject. In 1852 Lasegue published his famous monograph, Du delire de persecution, in which he dissociated from the classifications of his predecessors that group of the insane whose symptoms are essentially those of the disease under consideration. A few years later Morel pointed out the existence of cases in which there occurred in the course of the disease a trans- formation of the mental disposition, of the delusions, and of the hallucinations. Patients who were at one stage depressed, miserable, subject to delusions of persecution and disagree- able hallucinations, passed into a state of gaiety, with delusions of grandeur and agreeable hallu- cinations. In 1871 Foville described what he believed to be a hitherto unobserved form of insanity, which he called megalomania. He acknowledged the truth of Morel's observation regarding the transition in certain cases from persecution to ainbition, but he included in his megalomania other clinical forms, in which grandiose delusions and delusions of persecution co-existed or alternated. The opinions of the two last-named writers were greatly modified by Falret, to whom credit is due for elucidating still further the tangled skein of the problem of paranoia. It remained for Magnan, however, to give to the world in bold relief the clear description of systematised insanity which will always be associated with his name. In his monograph entitled Le Delire chronique a evolu- tion systematique, the latest teaching of the French school, paranoia is divided into two great groups, namely : (1) Progressive systematised delusional insanity, in which the course of the disease is slowly progressive, and invariably commencing with depression and delusions of persecution, passes into ambition with expansive delusions; and (2) an affection, not necessarily