NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE 68 (c) Patency of the Nasal Passages . 68 (d) Character of the Patient's Breath 68 (e) Senses of Smell a.nd Taste . . 68 (/) Character of the Secretion from the Nose .... 69 2. Examination of the Interior of the Nose and Nasopharynx by— (a) Anterior Rhinoscopy ... 69 {b) Posterior Rhinoscopy . . .71 (c) Palpation . . . . 73 (i.) Anterior .... 73 (ii.) Posterior- .... 74 1. General Examination (a) Exterior of the Nose and Aspect of the Face.—Careful note should always be taken of the appearance presented by the external nose. Bendings of the dorsum may indicate deflections of the septum, although the latter often occur without external evidence. The bones and cartilages may be bulged outwards by polypi or other intranasal growths, which in some cases appear through the nostrils. When the nasal cavities are completely impervious, or in a less degree when they have been much obstructed for a length of time, the tip of the nose assumes a pinched aspect. Its alse are pressed towards the septum and wasted, the mouth being con- stantly more or less open, the folds between the nose and upper lip are obliterated, whilst owing to the connection which subsists between the orbicularis and other muscles of the face (W. Meyer), the inner canthi of the eyes are drawn down, the eyebrows pushed upwards, and the skin of the forehead corrugated. The face alto- gether acquires a dull, listless expression. The broad flattened bridge in cases of ozsena, and the great depression of the nasal bones occurring in tertiary syphilis, must be mentioned, as likewise the thickening sometimes met with in tuberculous nasal disease and in rhinoscleroma. Redness of the alse and tip of the external nose, unless due to some other obvious cause, should lead us to suspect intranasal irritation. Excoriations at the edges of the nostrils are common when there is much secretion from the nasal cavities. Note should always be taken of any inequality of the two sides of the face, such as occurs in congenital occlusion of one posterior naris, and of any special prominence of one superior maxilla resulting from disease in the antrum. Enlargement of the transverse vein at the root of the nose has been described as a symptom of obstruction of the posterior part of the nose (Scanes Spicer). {b) Character of the Voice.—Important infor- mation may be gathered from observing the character of the voice. Complete closure of the anterior nares affects the voice, as heard by another person, as follows: non-nasal vowels {i.e. vowels properly pronounced so that no air enters the nose) are not appreciably affected ; the non-nasal consonants (such as 6, d, c, s, etc.) are not altered. The nasal vowels (i.e. vowels pronounced with an escape of air into the nose) become more distant, their resonance is altered in character. The nasal consonants (m and n) are heard more distantly and with an altered nasal resonance. Obstruction in the naso- pharynx destroys all nasal resonance, rendering the voice "dead," turning the consonants mand n into b and d respectively. When growths obstruct the posterior nares, but do not project into the nasopharynx, a certain resonance of the voice remains as pointed out by W. Meyer. (c) Patency of the Nasal Passages.—The methods at present generally in use for ascer- taining the patency of the nasal passages are certainly deficient in accuracy, but with experi- ence they give practically a good idea of the amount, if any, of obstruction present. They are as follows :— 1. Place the patient opposite to you facing- the window, and let him breathe with his mouth closed, first quietly, then forcibly; note whether there is any retraction of the alse on inspiration, and any difficulty in keeping the mouth closed. 2. Close the nostrils alternately by placing your thumb in an upward direction against one anterior naris, making the patient breathe in and out. The sound produced is a guide to the amount of obstruction, the broad soft sound of a wide canal contrasting markedly with the shrill note of a much obstructed passage. Several instruments for a more scientific examination of the perviousness of the nose have been devised, but as they have not yet come into practical use a description of them here is out of place. (d) Character of the Patient's Breath.—During the above examination it is well to notice whether the patient's breath has any special odour, and if so, whether the latter emanates from the nose or from the mouth. If the former, whether the smell is confined to one or the other side, and a very little experience will enable one to distinguish between the smell due to ozsena, to necrosed bone (as met with in syphilis), and the less pungent odour attached to abscess in the accessory sinuses. (e) Senses of Smell and Taste.—The patient, if intelligent, may usually be trusted to give a sufficiently accurate account of his sense of smell and taste, provided that the distinction between true taste (by means of the glosso- pharyngeal and lingual nerves) and the taste of flavours (by means of the olfactory nerve) be explained to him. If not, his sense of smell is tested qualitatively by exposing certain scents below first one and then the other nostril. The taste of flavours may be tested by swallowing with both nostrils open, or with one closed. Zwaardemaker's olfactometer may be used for the quantitative estimation of smell. It consists of a graduated glass tube, one end of which is