NEW-BORN INFANT 61 )y biliary calculi, which must necessarily have ixisted in intra-uterine life. Ophthalmia neonatorum, like several other naladies of the new-born, is the result of in- ection ; in this case the infection is gonorrhoeal, akes place during labour (intra-natal), and ifFects the conjunctival sacs instead of the um- bilicus. It has the characters of a purulent con- unctivitis, and is generally caused by vaginal secretion containing the gonococcus entering ;he infant's eyes during the progress of the lead through the maternal passages. It used ,0 be very common in maternity hospitals, and ts after-effects were often most disastrous— jorneal ulceration, prolapse of the iris, staphy- oma, etc. following and producing blindness, [t may be prevented, and practically abolished, IS was shown by Crede in 1880. Into the eyes )f every infant born to a mother suffering from X vaginal discharge, it is well to drop one or two ninims of a 2 per cent solution (10 grs. to 1 )z.) of nitrate of silver; or, as has been demon- strated lately, simply to wash the eyes carefully A^ith boiled water, may be sufficient to prevent :he infection. When, however, the conjunc- tivitis has commenced, it will be necessary to oaint the lids with the nitrate of silver solution Dr with protargol, and to anoint their edges .vith zinc ointment. If one eye only be affected, }he infant should be kept lying on the affected dde in order to try to save the other eye from nfection with the discharge. Pemphigus neonatorum is usually syphilitic in lature (vide article on "Syphilis"); rarely simple or benign pemphigus is met with in the lew-born. It is characterised by the appearance X few days after birth of bullae, usually discrete, )n the trunk of the infant: they contain at first jlear fluid, which afterwards becomes turbid ivhen the bullae burst and dry up. In this form, as distinguished from syphilitic pem- phigus, the soles and palms are commonly free From bullfe. The general health is not much affected, and the duration of the illness is about a, week. It used to be common in maternity hospitals, and is infectious in its nature. The treatment is the protection of the affected skin Prom injury and cold, and the internal adminis- tration of quinine. Sclerema neonatorum is a rare disease of the Qew-born, characterised by induration of the subcvitaneous tissue, little amenable to treat- ment. It has by some been ascribed to solidifi- sation of the panniculus adiposus by cold in infants in a state of collapse; but it is more probably due to the permeation of the subcu- taneous adipose tissue layer, with numerous bands of connective tissue forming a network. Possibly the primary pathogenetic factor is a lesion of the trophic nervous centres. The child is usually atrophic, and the skin, first of the limbs and later of the whole body, has a tiard and cold feeling; there is even some rigidity of the parts ; the temperature falls very rapidly; and the infant dies with or without such complications as pneumonia, diarrhoea, and haemorrhages. (Edema neonatorum is possibly in some cases a stage in the develop- ment of sclerema ; in others it is the symptom of several maladies, such as nephritis, and cardiac and pulmonary disease in the new-born. Both sclerema and oedema neonatorum are very in- tractable. The subject should be put in the incubator; the skin may be massaged, and hydrargyrum cum creta may be given internally. The morbid conditions of the new-born which remain to be described have most of them been ascribed to the traumatism of labour, although into some of them the element of infection has been shown to enter. Cephalhematoma neonatorum. —Occasionally (once in five hundred cases of labour) a swelling forms on the head of the new-born infant, which is obviously more than the caput succedaneum of parturition. The caput of labour is simply an effusion of serum, or of serum and blood, into the tissues of the scalp over that part of the head which has presented; the true cephal- hsematoma, or, as it is sometimes called, the subpericranial variety, consists in the pouring- out of blood between the pericranium and the vmderlying bone, especially in the neighbour- hood of the postero-superior angle of the parietal bone (right or left). It has been ascribed to rupture of small blood-vessels crossing the fissures in the margins of the parietal and occipital bones, which are often seen along the line of the lambdoidal suture near the posterior fontanelle. The swelling, which varies in size from a small nut to an orange, is firm and tense, has a fluctuating centre, and a hard rim or margin due to a deposit of new bone round the circumference, and it usually appears soon after birth, and absorbs slowly, occupying as long as two or three months in some cases. It seldom suppurates, and it has been considered best to leave it alone, simply protecting it from injury, and applying evaporating lotions ; possibly aseptic surgery may yet find it better to open it at once and evacuate the blood, but this more radical method of treatment has not become customary. Facial paralysis, when it occurs in the new- born, is usually unilateral, and is caused by the pressure of one of the blades of the forceps upon the seventh nerve at its point of exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, more rarely by pressure of the maternal bony passages upon the same structure. It is therefore generally met with in infants whose birth has been instrumental or laborious. It can be recognised when the infant is crying or suckling ; the wrinkles on the affected side are obliterated, and those on the sound side in comparison seem exaggerated ; the mouth also is drawn to the sound side. The eye on the affected side cannot be closed