NOSE—ACUTE INFLAMMATION 81 (a) Pathological conditions of the nasal mucous membranes and cavities, e.g. various forms of hypertrophic rhinitis, polypi, septal spurs, crests, and deviations, all of which produce obstruction to nasal respiration; (b) sudden changes of temperature from hot to cold, and vice versd; (c) nervous exhaustion; (d) bodily fatigue, especially when this supervenes upon free perspiration; (e) draughts of cold air blowing upon a heated or perspiring skin; (/) an hereditary tendency to acute nasal catarrh. In conditions of health the nasal mucus is said by Thomson and Hewlett ^ to inhibit the growth of pathogenic micro - organisms, very few of which are to be found within the nasal cavities, and possibly the predisposing causes, already enumerated, act by weakening in some way the protective properties of the normal mucous membrane and its natural secretion, so that the specific micro-organism of acute rhinitis not only flourishes for the time being within the nasal cavities, but gains an entry to the general system through the lining mucous membrane, and thus produces both local and constitutional symptoms. It is an interesting question whether in some cases an entrance into the system may not be effected, in a similar manner, by the germs of those grave diseases which occasionally follow in the wake of a neglected cold. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—There are swelling and hyperaemia of the nasal mucous membranes with increased cell-proliferation and secretion. The fluid is slightly alkaline, con- tains traces of albumin, yields a precipitate with acetic acid (mucin), does not reduce Fehling's solution, and stiffens a handkerchief upon which it dries (c/. characteristics of fluid in cerebro- spinal rhinorrhcBa). Symptoms.—The onset of acute nasal catarrh is usually marked by slight feelings of malaise associated with a sense of dryness, pricking sensations, or stuffiness within the nose. Sneez- ing is an early and rapidly becomes a prominent symptom, accompanied by the flow of a clear watery discharge from the nostrils. Owing to the irritating nature of the fluid and the con- stant use of the handkerchief, the skin around the nostrils and on the upper lip becomes red and sore, while not uncommonly herpetic vesicles make their appearance in this situation. The swelling of the nasal mucous membranes produces nasal obstruction, necessitating mouth breathing with its added discomforts. Frontal headache, pains in and around the eyes, and suffusion of the conjunctives, indicate the spread of the catarrhal process from the nose to the surrounding structures. The sense of smell is temporarily lost, and hence there is no appreciation of flavour, while extension of the catarrhal process into the naso- pharynx may produce occlusion of the pharyn- ^ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. VOL. VII geal orifice of the Eustachian tube, causing slight deafness and tinnitus, and possibly a little earache. If the inflammation actually passes into the tympanum, acute otitis media and its sequelae may result. The effect on the voice of this general swell- ing of the nasal mucosa is to destroy its natural resonance, rendering it toneless and deadened. In young children, especially when nursing at the breast, nasal catarrh may constitute a serious condition, because it will entail great difficulty in feeding, owing to obstructed nasal respiration. The acute symptoms of coryza may last from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, when they gradually diminish in severity. The discharge becomes more viscid and muco-purulent, and usually becomes quite purulent before the catarrh has entirely passed off. A general sense of weakness and depression is apt to supervene upon the subsidence of the acute symptoms, while the spread of the catarrhal condition to the pharynx, larynx, and larger bronchial tubes is evidenced by hoarseness, cough, and muco-purulent expectora- tion, which symptoms may last from ten to twenty days after the commencement of the acute attack. It should be borne in mind that during the first month of infant life congenital syphilis may first manifest itself in an attack of acute rhinitis, which is usually accompanied or shortly followed by the characteristic skin eruption most common about the buttocks. The nasal discharge, at first clear, quickly becomes purulent and dries around the nostrils, pro- ducing soreness and superficial ulceration, while the nasal obstruction caused by the disease renders the proper nourishment of the child a matter of great difficulty {vide " Hereditary Syphilis"; for nasal symptoms of hay fever, vide article "Hay Fever"). Prognosis.—This is nearly always good, but in young children and old people a cold in the head, especially when neglected, is often followed by bronchitis, or other acute diseases of graver significance. Constantly recurring attacks of nasal catarrh tend to weaken the resistance of the nasal mucous membranes, so that at last a condition of chronic rhinitis is produced, characterised by hypertrophy of the nasal mucosa, nasal obstruction, excessive secretion, and various other symptoms {vide Chronic Rhinitis). Furthermore, acute rhinitis is often the starting-point of acute and chronic suppurative inflammations of the nasal accessory sinuses; especially may this be the case when the nasal catarrh is associated with influenza, the acute specific diseases, or the patient lives among insanitary surroundings. Probably in all cases of acute coryza the catarrhal changes spread into the frontal, ethmoidal, and maxillary 6