PERITONEUM 420 done much valuable work upon allied subjects, such as the bacteriology of otitic suppurations, where he has arrived at the same conclusions as Veillon as to the importance of anaerobic germs, thereby greatly strengthening the position of Veillon's theory. Glucose agar is the medium employed. Tubes containing it are heated in a bath to 100° C, in order to melt the agar and to drive off the contained air. At 40° C. the agar is still liquid, but the temperature is not so great as to kill the micro-organisms. The tubes are thei'efore inoculated at this temperature in the ordinary way with a sterilised pipette, and immediately afterwards are plunged into cold water, so as to minimise the absorption of air during the process of solidification. In the upper end of the tube there is some admixture with air, and in this layer aerobes grow ; while the rest of the column satisfies the conditions required by strict anaerobes. The colonies of anaerobic organisms, therefore, de- velop in the lower parts of the tube at the end of a variable time amounting sometimes to eight days. They can easily be seen through the transparent medium. When the colonies are fairly developed they can be separately removed for further examination. Veillon sums up his conclusions in the follow- ing way:— "All these microbes are strictly anaerobic, and are constantly met in the pus of ap- pendicitis, in abscesses limited to the caecum, and in peritonitis. Their extreme abundance, shown by examination of stained specimens of the fresh pus and by culture under special con- ditions, their predominance over the bacillus coli communis and the other aerobes found in these cases, with their exclusive appearance in a few cases, their pathological and chemical properties (gas, fcetor), allow us fairly to affirm that they play an important part in the pro- duction of appendicitis and peritonitis. In virtue of their gangrenous properties they are the active agents in producing perforation, and it is to them that the pus owes its fostor. It is their toxines which give rise to the symptoms of intoxication." Karer forms of peritonitis arise from glanders, actinomycosis and anthrax and various other bacilli, such as bacillus pyocyaneus, pyogenes foetidus typhosus, proteus, lanceolatus ; besides, the pneumococcus and the gonococcus have been described in connection with it. Probably, in the production of peritonitis the gonococcus and the pneumococcus only act in combination with the more common pyogenic bacteria. Acute diff'use peritonitis may arise in cases of gonorrhoeal salpingitis. The pathology of rheumatic peritonitis, and of the peritonitis associated with certain forms of renal disease, is obscure, although possibly the two are allied in nature. That rheumatism is a microbic disease is in accordance with the most recent bacteriological work on the subject. The nature of renal disease, and of the peri- tonitis which arises in connection with it, is much more doubtful. Ascites (vide article on " Ascites ").—In this condition the peritoneum is only affected second- arily, and to a slight extent. From venous or lymphatic stasis, fluid exudes into the peri- toneal cavity, and in time, from the increased pressure, the membrane becomes opaque and thickened. Unlike the fluid in serous peritonitis, it shows no power of spontaneous coagulation. New Growths of the Peritoneum Tubercular Perito7iitis.—The peritoneum is always secondarily affected by tubercle, the infection reaching it from the intestine, from the mesenteric glands, or from the generative organs. In acute cases miliary tubercles of typical form are found scattered over the peri- toneum. It is not uncommon also to find a few of them in the peritoneum of patients dying of chronic phthisis. They are studded most thickly over the region of the diaphragmatic peritoneum and the pelvis. In the more chronic cases the secondary in- flammatory changes may be so advanced as to mask the specific changes to a great extent. In these cases the disease shows a striking tendency to simulate tumour. The omentum is rolled up, scarred, and thickened, until it forms a mass which usually lies transversely in the upper part of the abdomen, rather more to the left than the right side. The mesenteries may also be thickened and puckered, causing great deformity. A certain amount of effusion may be present, but it is not usually very great; occasionally it is hsemorrhagic. Adhesions may lead to the formation of pockets which contain fluid and simulate cysts. In children especially it is common to find marked affection of the mesenteric glands, which are enlarged and hard with caseation in the centre. It is curious that the association of tubercular peritonitis with tubercular ulcera- tion of the intestine is not more commonly found. Malignant Disease.—Cancer.—Primary ueo- 2)lasm of the peritoneum is exceedingly rare. Cases of primary epithelioma have, however, been described, although it is probable that they were of the nature of endothelioma i-ather than true epitheliomata. Endotheliomata occur as nodular growths; they are usually multiple and flattened, the various nodules coalescing to a greater or less extent, and they are white in colour. Sometimes they form large isolated tumours, marrow-like in consistence, the peri- toneum round them showing inflammatory thickening. They arise from multiplication of