446 PHAEMACOLOGY along with sleeplessness. A low delirium follows, with hallucinations. Sometimes there is stupor and collapse, without preliminary mania. The pulse may be quickened and the temperature raised. After death, fatty degeneration of the viscera is found. Chlorine, like bromine, is a powerful irritant. It is used in solution as a disinfectant and deodoriser, and as a mouth-wash or gargle. (8) Acids.—Under this head are dealt with those acids which owe their activity mainly to the hydrogen ion ; others, such as salicylic acid, whose action depends mainly on the negative ion, are discussed elsewhere. In concentration the more powerful acids act as caustics, and by reason of this are violent poisons. Living cells are for the most part incapable of surviving in acid fluids, hence these bodies are protoplasmic poisons. They are, therefore, antiseptics of no slight power, hydrochloric acid in "2 per cent solutions delaying the growth of organisms. Moulds, however, are much more resistant to the action of acids than are other low forms of life. Acids also have the power of precipitating proteids, hence are astringents. They are absorbed fairly rapidly from the stomach, but are quickly neutralised in the body—in man, chiefly by ammonia set free by the tissues. The ammonia is formed at the expense of the urea synthesis in order to protect the tissues from the withdrawal of fixed alkali. The urinary ammonia is therefore increased, the urea dimin- ished. The amount of urinary ammonia, there- fore, is an index to the degree of acidosis. When excess of acid is absorbed, the oxidation processes of the body are lowered, and the oxygen intake and carbonic acid output diminished, and fatal acid intoxication develops, which, however, may be rapidly relieved by the free administra- tion of alkalis. After their neutralisation in the body acids are eliminated in the urine, chiefly as acid salts; hence they increase the acidity of the urine, and may cause some irritation. Dilute acids reflexly stimulate the flow of saliva, both parotid and submaxillary; they do not aff'ect the secretion of gastric juice, but when they reach the duodenum they excite the pancreatic secretion. Of the mineral acids, the actions of Sulphuric, Hydrochloric, Nitric, and Phosphoric acids have been sufficiently covered by what has been said. Sulphurous acid is a powerful reducing agent, and therefoi'e doubly poisonous to protoplasm. It is accordingly a stronger antiseptic than its congeners, and in this sphere finds its chief use. If inhaled, it acts as an irritant. Organic Acids. —Acetic acid resembles the mineral acids, but is less corrosive. Tartaric and Citric acids have a mild action ; their salts have already been referred to. Boracic acid is a feeble acid ; its action closely resembles that of its sodium salt. Borax. It is chiefly employed as a mild antiseptic, and in moderate doses has little effect on the bodily functions. In large quantities it is poisonous {vide " Toxicology "), and dangerous symptoms may be caused by its absorption from dressings. Prolonged local use, too, causes a scaly der- matitis. Boric acid is eliminated by the urine, and to a less extent by the bowel; it does not affect intestinal putrefaction, but is to some degree a urinary antiseptic. Carbonic Acid —Apart from its action as a poisonous gas, the only pharmacological eff'ect of importance which carbonic acid produces is a slight degree of local irritation. Thus in the form of an effervescent liquid it stimulates primary digestion, and as fluid containing it is rapidly absorbed, all the aerated waters are diuretic. After prolonged application to a mucous membrane some blunting of the sensi- bility takes place, hence it acts as a gastric sedative. Its stimulating local effect on the skin is taken advantage of in baths, especially in the Nauheim treatment of cardiac disease. (9) Calcium and Barium.—Calcium is essen- tial to the animal economy, particularly to the growth of bones. Its presence is requisite for the coagulation of the blood, and for the coagulation of milk by the rennet ferment. Solutions of lime salts have a stimulating effect on cardiac and skeletal muscle, and restore the contractility of frog's heart and nerve-muscle preparations after they have ceased to respond to electrical stimulation. Owing to the insolu- bility of many lime salts, and the ease with which they are thrown out of solution on coming in contact with the alkaline body juices, as well as the fact that even in solution they are absorbed from the intestine with difficulty, their thera- peutic value is restricted. There is reason, however, to believe that the coagulability of the blood can be increased by giving calcium chloride or lactate, and that a tonic effect is exerted on the heart. Sir A. E. Wright has shown that up to a certain point the administra- tion of calcium chloride shortens the coagulation time of the blood as measured by his coagulo- meter, and that there is a corresponding increase in the calcium salts in the blood. Excess of calcium, however, has the property of delaying coagulation. Calcium salts are excreted largely by the intestine, and cause constipation. Calcium carbonate diminishes the acidity of the urine by combining with, and preventing the absorp- tion of, phosphoric acid from the intestine. Less phosphates appear in the urine, and acidity is diminished, without, however, an alkaline re- action being produced. Barium is an active poison. It has the power of throwing into tonic contraction all muscle with which it comes into contact. It thus causes colic, vomiting, and diarrhoea, constric- tion of the blood-vessels, and rise in blood pressure. The cardiac systole becomes more