PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 489 which splits the sugar. This something belongs to the group of Enzymes or Zymins which play so important a part in physiology generally. These enzymes all act by hastening reactions which go on slowly without their presence, but they do not themselves take any direct part in the reaction. Hence a very small quantity may bring about an extensive change in the sub- stance acted upon. For the manifestation of their activity they require the presence of water and a suitable temperature-in the case of the yeast enzyme about 36° C. is the best. At lower temperatures the reaction becomes slower and is finally stopped, and at a higher temperature it is delayed and finally arrested by the destruction of the enzyme. Sometimes these enzymes lead to a complete decomposition of the substance upon which they act, but this is often prevented by a checking influence exerted by the accumulation of the products of their action, e.g. by the alcohol developed from the sugar. With certain enzymes at least, the action may actually be reversed if the enzyme is brought in contact with the final products of decomposition. Thus the enzyme which splits esters into their components may cause a linking of those components to form esters. In this respect they simply aid the establishment of an equilibrium between the component substances in the reaction. The general action of the enzymes has been termed katalytic. It may be compared to the action of an acid in the inversion of cane sugar— Ci2H220n + H20 = 2(CeHi20^,). Here the acid merely hastens a reaction which would go on slowly in the presence of water alone. The precise way in which such katalytic actions are bi'ought about is still not quite clear, but there is evidence that the agent acts as a middleman between the reacting sub- stances, in the case of H^Og taking up the 0 and then liberating it—in the case of the de- composition of cane sugar taking up H.2O and handing it on; just as in the oxidation of glucose, which occurs when it is boiled with an alkali, a metallic oxide, such as cuprous oxide, may take oxygen from the air and hand it on to the glucose, thus making the oxidation more rapid. Living yeast difi'ers from these dead sub- stances simply in the fact that it w-ses the energy liberated from the glucose. In virtue of this, the yeast has the power of repair and of growth. But protoplasm is also constantly breaking down, and if yeast be kept at a suitable temper- ature in water without any supply of material for construction, it gives off' carbon dioxide and decreases in bulk on account of these disin- tegrative changes. These are as essential a part of the life of living matter as the building-up changes, and it is only when they are in progress that the latter are possible. Protoplasm (living matter) is living only in virtue of its constant chemical changes—meta- bolism—and these changes are on the one hand destructive {katabolic)., on the other constructive (anabolic). Living matter thus differs from dead matter simply in this respect, that side by side with destructive changes, constructive changes are always going on, whereby its amount is maintained or increased. Hence our conception of living matter is not of a definite chemical substance, but of a sub- stance constantly undergoing internal changes. It might be compared to a whirlpool constantly dragging things into its vortex, and constantly throwing them out more or less changed, but itself continuing apparently unchanged through- out. Hoppe-Seyler expresses this by saying: " The life of all organisms depends upon, or, one can almost say, is identical with, a chain of chemical changes." Foster puts the same idea in more fanciful language : " We may speak of protoplasm as a complex substance, but we must strive to realise that what we mean by that is a complex whirl, an intricate dance, of which, what we call chemical composition, histo- logical structure, and gross configuration are, so to speak, the figures." The rate of these chemical processes may be quickened or slowed by changes in the sur- roundings, and such changes are called stimuli. If the stimulus increases the rate of change, it is said to excite; if it diminishes the rate of change, it is said to depress. Thus the activity of the changes in yeast may be accelerated by a slight increase of the temperature of the sur- rounding medium, or it may be depressed by the addition of such a substance as chloroform water. While the continuance of these chemical changes in protoplasm is life, their stoppage is death. For the continuance of life the building- up changes must be in excess of or equal to the breaking-down. The evolution of energy must be sufficient for growth and maintenance. It is only the surplus over this which is available for external work. In youth the surplus energy is largely used for growth, in manhood for work. When failure in the supply or in the utilisation of the energy - yielding material occurs, the protoplasm dwindles and disintegrates. Death is sudden when the chemical changes are abruptly stopped, slow when the anabolic changes are interfered with. The series of changes which occur between the infliction of an incurable injury and complete disintegration of the tissue constitute the processes of Necro- biosis, and their study is of importance in pathology. III. Chemistry.—It is impossible to analyse such an ever-changing substance as protoplasm, and although what is left when these chemical changes are stopped can be examined, such analyses give little insight into the essential nature of the living matter.