379 PELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR Introductory.—Structural Anatomy of the Pelvic Flow The most striking characteristics of the female pelvic floor depend upon the fact that it is so constructed as to open during parturition to admit of the passage of the foetus through it. While it has to allow occasional opening for this purpose, the pelvic floor has also to support the abdominal viscera and resist the intra-abdominal pressure throughout life. The arrangements, which make parturition possible, introduce into the structure of the pelvic floor certain inherent weaknesses, which under certain circumstances are the prime cavises of the pathological con- ditions discussed in the following pages :— The female pelvic floor may be considered as consisting of two portions: the one which is the more movable being supported by the other, which is the more firmly fixed to the bony structures. The movable portion, which is the inner and anterior portion of the pelvic floor, is connected with the outer and posterior fixed structures by a ring of loose connective tissue which runs round the pelvis. To speak more definitely, the movable portion consists of the bladder, the urethra, and the anterior and posterior walls of the vagina. The uterus, the broad ligaments, and the ovaries and tubes rest upon these mobile structures, and move with them. The loose tissue by which these organs are connected with the more fixed por- tions of the pelvic floor extends behind the pubes, along the inner surface of the obturator internus and the upper part of the levator ani, being continued between the posterior wall of the vagina and the anterior wall of the rectum. The use of this ring of loose tissue is not only to render parturition possible, but to allow of the movements of the bladder and rectum, which occur during the filling and emptying of these organs. In prolapse of the uterus, which is, strictly speaking, a form of hernia (sacro- pubic hernia), the whole of the movable portion of the pelvic floor descends, together with the uterus and appendages. Coils of intestine de- scend in turn and occupy a sac formed by the organs mentioned, lined by peritoneum, and having for outer covering the inverted walls of the vagina. To obtain a clear idea of the structure of the pelvic floor, it is necessary to consider a sagittal mesial section of the pelvis. In Fig. 1 such a section is figured, the straight lines which are introduced showing the direction in which the intra-abdominal pressure acts upon the various portions of the pelvic floor. Consideration of such a section shows that the vagina is a trans- verse slit in the pelvic floor, and divides it into two portions—an anterior or pubic and a pos- terior or sacral portion. The anterior portion is composed of the bladder and urethra, with the anterior wall of the vagina; the posterior portion consists of the posterior vaginal wall, with the rectum, and all the muscular and con- nective tissue attached to the sacrum and coccyx. Fig. 1.—Saggital section of pelvis, ct, uterus ; i, bladder ; c, rectum ; d, vulva; e, symphysis; /, perineal body. The lines show the direction of intra-abdominal pressure. (Hart and Barbour.) including, of course, the perineum. Fig. 2 shows the appearance of the sacral segment in mesial sagittal section, as figured by Hart. It is thus seen that the division of the pelvic floor into movable and fixed portions, nearly, though not entirely, coincides with the division into pubic and sacral segments. For the pos- terior vaginal wall forms a part of the movable portion of the pelvic floor, with the anterior vaginal wall, bladder, and urethra; but, on the other hand, it forms a part of the sacral seg- ment, together with the rectum, perineal body, and muscular structures attached to the sacrum and coccyx. When the uterus contracts during parturition it draws upward all those parts of the movable portion of the pelvic floor which are free to rise, namely, the bladder and the anterior vaginal wall. The posterior vaginal wall is pulled up- ward certainly, but it is also pushed downward and stretched by the advancing foetal head, together with the rest of the sacral segment of the pelvic floor. Thus the floor opens like a pair of folding doors, one of which is pulled while the other is pushed open. The pubic segment is pviUed up, the sacral segment is pushed down, the vaginal cleft being altered from a mere potential slit into a tube four inches wide. This mechanism is well seen by placing a patient in the genupectoral posture and allowing air to enter the vagina. The pubic segment of the pelvic floor then falls away from the more fixed sacral segment, the vagina remaining widely pouched, as long