PARASITES 347 and reddish in colour. The genital orifices open at the bottom of a large genital sinus, which is situated behind and to the left of the ventral sucker. The eggs are reddish-brown, 26 jx long and 15 /X broad. The mode of development is not known. The parasite has been found in a very few cases inhabiting the small intestine of persons in Egypt (Bilharz, 1851 ; Blanchard, 1891 ; Looss, 1894). Mesogoni7nus Westermarmi (Kerbert, 1878); Syn.: Distomum Westermanni (Kerbert, 1878); I). Ringeri (Cobbold, 1880); I), pulmonale (Balz, 1883).—It is egg-shaped, 8-10 mm. long, 4-6 mm. broad, and of a reddish-brown colour. The venti'al sucker is about midway between the anterior and posterior extremities of the body, and behind it is the genital pore. The yellowish eggs are 80-100 /x, long and 50 /x broad. Little is known of the development of this parasite, which is found in Japan and other eastern parts of Asia, where it is somewhat common. It is found in cavities within the lungs. These cavities may be as large as a walnut or a hen's egg, contain blood-tinged mucus, abundant eggs, and sometimes one or more adult worms, and usually communicate with a bronchus. The eggs have also been found in subperitoneal nodules and within inflammatory nodules in the brain. The same species is parasitic in the cat, dog, and other animals in different parts of the world. Amphistomidce. — The oral sucker is small, whilst the ventral sucker is large, and situated at or near to the posterior end of the body. Amphistomum hominis (Lewis and M'Connell, 1876).—It is 5-8 mm. in length, 3-4 mm. in its greatest transverse diameter, and has a rela- tively very large ventral sucker, the transverse diameter of which is equal to half the total length of the worm. The eggs were 150 /x long, 72 /X broad, and had an opei'culum. This species, which has been observed on only two occasions, was found in large numbers adhering to the mucous membrane of the cfecum and colon of natives of India. Other species of this family are parasitic in the stomach and intestine of the lower animals. Gastrodiscus Sonsinoi, for instance, is found in horses and mules in Egypt, Senegal, and Gaude- loupe; Amphistomum Hatvkesii is a common and sometimes fatal parasite of Indian elephants; others are found in the ox, sheep, and goat. Schistoso7iiidce^ are trematodes in which the sexes are separate. Schistosomum hcematobiwm (Bilharz, 1852); Syn.: Distomum haematobium (Bilharz, 1852); Bilharzia hcematobia (Cobbold, 1860); etc.—In general form this worm resembles a nematode. The male is 5-16 mm. long, of a whitish colour; the oral sucker is apical, and close behind it is the posterior or ventral sucker. Behind this latter sucker the body is expanded laterally. and the two marginal expansions thus formed are folded towards the ventral surface, and overlapping each other form the " gynsecophoric canal" in which the female is frequently con- tained. The genital orifice is at the anterior Fig. 8.—Surface view of vesical mucous membrane. Capillaries filled with blood corpuscles. Eggs of Sch. hcematobiuin outside the capillaries. (After Lortet and Vialleton.) end of this canal just behind the ventral sucker. The female is almost cylindrical, 15-20 mm. long, thinner than the male, and with two suckers similarly situated to those of the male. The uterus opens just posterior to the ventral sucker. The eggs (Fig. 8) are oval, 130-200 fj, long and 50-60 fj. or more broad, each having a spinous projection at one pole, rarely at the lateral margin, but hav- ing no operculum. The worm inhabits the smaller tributaries of the portal vein, is parasitic only in man and monkeys, and is mainly found in Africa and in the male sex. The disease it excites is endemic in Egypt, and especially so among the fellahs. According to Leuckart, Grie singer found the parasite 117 times in 363 autopsies, and Sonsino 13 times in 31 autopsies. Kaufmann (quoted by Lortet and Vialleton) has observed it in 40-50 per cent of autopsies on men, and in 13 per cent of those on women. Buffer (1901) finds it in quite 50 per cent of all necropsies on natives in Egypt. In the eastern district of Cape Colony, Natal, and Fig. 9.—Schistosomum hcema- tobiuin : S, posterior ventral sucker of male. (After Blanchard.)