86 NOSE—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION to my experience, is preferable, and answers all purposes. Thickened portions that cannot be snared off may be burnt with the cautery or chromic acid. As in simple chi-onic catarrh, spurs, ridges, and deflections, which help to keep up the morbid condition, may have to be removed. Occasionally the turbinated bones, when narrowing the lumen, may have to be reduced by surgical means. As regards general treatment, high dry climates are usually good for chronic nasal catarrh, and any condition favouring the recurrence of acute attacks is, of course, to be avoided. In gouty cases suitable constitutional treatment may also be adopted. Coryza in Children.—The acute form affecting new-born children will be elsewhere described. Chronic coryza in older children is generally as- sociated with adenoid vegetations and enlarged tonsils. There is usually no localised hyper- trophy, but much general swelling, also often eczema of the vestibules. It frequently occurs with congenital syphilis. Rhinitis caseosa is a name that has been applied to cases characterised by the accumu- lation of a white or faintly pink highly foetid cheesy mass in one nostril, most of which it fills, giving rise to a sero-purulent secretion. Some authors, such as Klemperer, do not con- sider that it is a special form of rhinitis, but that the discharge, whether originating in the accessory sinuses or due to caries of the bone, etc. is simply retained and becomes decom- posed. Others, like Cozzolino and M'Bride, are of opinion that it forms a separate disease. The name Rhinitis oedematosa has been ap- plied to an oedematous condition of the nasal mucous membrane (Mulhall), but it is not a generally accepted term. The last remark applies equally to Rhinitis sicca, in which there is diminished secretion. Xanthosis of the nasal mucous membrane is a chronic condition described by Zuckerkandl, in which the mucous membrane assumes a yellowish dirty or rusty colour. It is chiefly found on the cartilaginous septum, but is occa- sionally seen in other parts of the nose. It will, therefore, be more properly described under diseases of the septum. 2. Atrophic Rhinitis, Fcetid (Ozyena) and non-fcetid This is a form of chronic rhinitis which is accompanied by wasting of the nasal mucous membrane and of the underlying bones. In the foetid variety, also termed oztena, the dis- charge forms tenacious masses and crusts which possess a highly penetrating disagreeable odour. In the non-foetid form, which is much less common, the accumulation of seci-etion is not so marked. Etiology. -— The etiology of this complaint is very imperfectly understood. According to some authors, it is the result of atrophic changes in tissues which have been previously hyper- trophied, but militating against this theory is the fact that most cases of ozsena date from early youth, although they do not usually come under treatment till puberty. It undoubtedly sometimes has its origin in acute infectious fevers. All authors agree that it is commoner in females than in males, this being the reverse of that found in hypertrophic rhinitis. Its oc- currence in several members of the same family has often been noticed, but its unintentional transmission from one person to another is unsubstantiated. Symptoms.—In some cases the external aspect is characterised by broad and depressed nasal bones, but this feature is not always noticeable. The three chief symptoms are: (1) Foetor; (2) atrophy; (3) secretion. The foetor varies in intensity in different cases and, as already men- tioned, may occasionally be absent. The odour is attached to the inspissated secretion, as it is not noticeable after the removal of the latter. It is very characteristic, has been likened to that of decayed cheese, and is distinct from the odour met with in connection with necrosed bone or abscess of the accessory sinuses. The foetor is not usually perceived by the patient himself. Nasal obstruction is often present, produced by the accumulation of discharge, and headaches may be complained of. Rhinoscopic examination usually, but not always, shows the nasal cavities large, wide, and lined more or less with a yellow or greenish discharge which is frequently found dried up into scabs of greater or less thickness, presenting a grey surface resembling that of pumice-stone. They often fill the nasal cavities, and adhere tightly to the underlying mucous membrane. When these are removed by syringing or, if necessary, by forceps or wool mops, the under- lying mucous membrane is iisually found thin and wasted, and the turbinated bodies, espe- cially the inferior, atrophied, making the nasal passages very wide, and allowing of a clear view of the nasopharynx, often also of the anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid. The mucous membrane, especially that covering the turbinated bones, may be found red, uneven, and bleeding slightly. The nasal bones also undergo atrophic changes. In the same nose both atrophic and hypertrophic patches of mucous membrane are met with (Krieg), the former chiefly at the lower part. All these conditions generally affect both nasal cavities in a varying degree, but may be limited to one side. There is no ulceration of the mucous membrane in true ozsena. The diseased process often extends into the nasopharynx, and may affect the pharynx (pharyngitis sicca) and even the larynx. Cases of ozajna affecting only the larynx and trachea have been described by Baginsky and Zarniko.