250 PANCREAS DISEASES OF of cases, and is now the recognised form of treatment. Subacute Pancreatitis. — This may have a sudden onset, with acute pain and vomiting associated with constipation, but the collapse is not so marked and may even be absent; the upper abdominal region does not become so rapidly swollen, and vomiting is less severe and less prolonged. At other times the onset is more gradual, thoiigh the symptoms may be similar. Tenderness over the pancreas is well marked, and on account of the tympanites being less than in the acute form it may be possible to feel the swollen gland, especially under an anfesthetic. Constipation soon gives place to diarrhoea with the passage of pale bulky greasy motions, and pus or blood may be noticed in the stools, which have a very foetid odour. The pulse will be less rapid and less thready than in the ;icute form, and the temperature is more ir- regular. I have seen the temperature reaching 104° and 105° F., and yet the pulse to vary be- tween 90 and 110. The morning temperature may be normal, and the evening temperature high for several days or even weeks. Rigors may occur and may be repeated from time to time. The pain occurs in paroxysms, but there is also a constant dull pain at the epigastrium. The patient may lose the more urgent symptoms and appear to be really improving, but the loss of flesh and feebleness continue, and relapses usually occur, leaving the patient each time more and more feeble, until death supervenes from asthenia. Albuminuria is pretty constant; but glycosuria is rarely present, and lipuria is an uncommon symptom. As the disease is less intense than in the fulminating form, suppuration usually occurs. If an abscess develop, the pus may form a tumour projecting in the superior abdominal region, forming a tender swelling behind the stomach, or perhaps coming to the surface above or below that viscus ; or it may burrow into either loin, forming a peri-renal abscess, or, passing under the diaphragm, it may form a subphrenic abscess. Occasionally the pus may follow the psoas muscle and form a subperitoneal abscess in the iliac region, or even passing over the brim of the pelvis it may collect in the left broad liga- ment. I have seen these terminations in cases either under my own care or under the care of colleagues, and I have operated several times for abscess of the pancreas. Sometimes the abscess bursts into the stomach and is vomited, or into the bowel and is voided per anum, after which diarrhoea may continue, and pus may be seen from time to time as any fresh collection forms and bursts. I have seen both of these methods of evacuation of the pus. With the evacuation of the abscess relief occurs for a time, and the temperature improves; but relapses may occur, and a mild form of septicpemia may persist with a hectic temperature. Recovery may occur after a tedious and prolonged illness. Post-mortem Appearances. — In suppurative pancreatitis, which is for the most part sub- acute, there may be a diffuse infiltration of pus throughout the gland, the ducts being full of muco-pus, and suppuration being found in the gland along the course of the excretory channels, penetrating to the intercellular space, and form- ing separate collections of pus in a similar way to that which takes place in the liver in suppurative cholangitis. If the pancreatitis is limited to one or more regions of the gland, the pus may then collect and form an abscess of variable size composed of broken-down tissue with disintegrated fat and pus ; and it is not unusual in these cases to find hajmorrhage into the abscess cavity giving the pus a chocolate colour, though at times there may be an absence of blood, and the pus may then be laudable. There is usually peripancreatitis, and it is common to find effusion of a thin greyish fluid containing pus cells in the lesser peritoneal cavity. A localised abscess may project into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, and passing forward it may tend to point above the stomach. In other cases a leakage of pus may occur into the peritoneal cavity, producing peritonitis, at first of the lesser and later of the greater peri- toneal sac. If the abscess bursts behind the peritoneum it may burrow backwards and form a peri-renal abscess ; or passing farther in front of the psoas sheath it may either simulate an iliac abscess pointing above Poupart's ligament, or proceeding farther towards the pelvis it may form a pelvic abscess. In three cases I have known the pus to burst into the stomach and into the bowel. Treatment.—The subacute form of pancreatitis is much more amenable to treatment, as the indications are so much more definite, and there is more time for careful consideration; and though it has usually only been attacked when an abscess has formed, and is manifestly making its way to the surface, yet there is no reason why in some cases surgical treatment should not be adopted at an earlier stage. As in the acute condition, morphia may be required to relieve the paroxysmal pain, and stimulants and food by the rectum to relieve the collapse and support the strength. The distension, if present, may also demand attention, and may have to be relieved by lavage of the stomach and turpentine enemata, or by the administra- tion of calomel by the mouth. Calomel is also of benefit by acting as an intestinal antiseptic, for which purpose it may be given in small repeated doses, or in doses of 5 grains, followed by a saline aperient. As soon as the constipa- tion is relieved, diarrhoea is apt to supervene, when salol and bismuth, with small doses of opium, may be given. If surgical treatment is decided on, a median incision above the