459 PHARMACOLOGY cerned, since it is chiefly employed for its action on the kidney and respiratory tract. It is an irritant, first locally in the stomach and bowel, causing nausea, and in large doses vomiting and diarrhoea; after absorption it stimulates the bronchial secretion (hence is used as an expec- torant), and the renal functions, acting as a diuretic. Convallaria combines the actions of digitalis and squill. It is a powerful cardiac tonic, diuretic, and purgative. (24) Adrenalin.—From the suprarenal glands a substance has been extracted which has a very striking action on the circulatory system. Even in minimal doses it produces a rapid and very marked rise in the blood pressure, while the heart is slowed and its beat strengthened. The rise in blood pressure is due partly to direct action on the vessels, partly to stimulation of the vaso-motor centre, and partly to the action on the heart, which consists of more forcible systole and less complete diastole. Not all the vessels are equally affected by adrenalin ; those of the lungs and brain are little influenced by the drug, the cutaneous vessels are contracted, but the brunt of the action falls on the vessels of the splanchnic area. When applied locally to a mucous membrane adrenalin produces pallor from constriction of the neighbouring vessels ; it has no action on unbroken skin. It also produces contraction of unstriped muscle other than that of the vessels; thus changes in the eye similar to those induced by cocaine are caused, and the uterus and other reproductive organs become anaemic and contracted under its influence. It stimulates secretion, and in this respect antagonises atropine. When injected subcutaneously glycosuria results. (25) Ergot. — Ergot is a parasitic fungus {Claviceps purpurea) which is found in diseased rye {Secale cornutum). Epidemics of poisoning have from time to time been caused by the use of this as a food. Here, however, the symptoms of ergotism need not be discussed. The active principles of ergot are not well known ; they are apparently very unstable, and the crude drug is itself a variable substance. It contains a saponin—ergotinic acid; a mix- ture of alkaloids to which the name of cornutine is given; and a resinous body, sphacelotoxin. Probably the last of these is the most important principle; but in practice an active standardised preparation of the crude drug should be used, and to this the following remarks apply. The chief pharmacological action of ergot is its power of stimulating unstriped muscle to contraction. It causes vaso-constriction from central action (the pulmonary vessels alone being excepted), stimulates the heart muscle directly, and in consequence raises the blood pressure. It has a similar action on the un- striped muscle of the gastric and intestinal wall, and may cause vomiting and diarrhoea. Ergot is chiefly employed for the sake of its action on the uterus; it increases the tonus of the muscle, and stimulates contraction. Experi- mental observations are at variance as to the precise action on the parturient uterus, and it must sufiice to say that all clinical evidence points to the production of a continued tetanic spasm of the uterine wall, and interference with the normal relaxation. In animals it certainly produces abortion; in man it is questionable whether, except in poisonous doses, it has the power of so doing. (26) Nitrites.—The action of all of these, whether employed as amyl nitrite, the nitrite of sodium, or nitroglycerine, is of the same nature, differing in dui-ation and intensity, however, according to the preparation used. When Amyl nitrite is inhaled sensation of ful- ness in the head is experienced, and the face and neck become turgescent. This is accompanied by a fall in blood pressure from dilatation of the peripheral arterioles, the heart at the same time becoming accelerated. Vaso-dilatation is due to a direct action on the unstriped muscle ; it extends to the vessels of the brain, splanchnic area, and limbs, while of the cutaneous vessels only those of that area over which blushing normally occur are affected. Apart from their effect on the vessels nitrites have no other important action. The respiration is quickened, and if large quantities of amyl nitrite be in- haled some of the oxyhgemoglobin of the blood is converted into methsemoglobin. Non-striped muscles generally are affected in a manner similar to, but less than that of, the vessel walls. Sodium and Potassium nitrite are not so powerful as amyl nitrite, but their effect is less transient. Nitroglycerine is more potent than the nitrite of sodium, and its effects persist for some time after administration. Erythrol tetranitrate has a more gradual and prolonged action, its maximum effect occurring after two or three hours. (27) Thyroid.—lodothyrin, the active prin- ciple of the thyroid gland, is found in the colloid part of the organ. It contains 9 per cent of iodine, as well as sulphur and phosphorus. Thyroid substance is a powerful stimulant to metabolism, causing loss of weight, increased intake of oxygen, and increased excretion of nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus. The tissue waste is due both to destruction of proteid and to oxidation of fat. Along with this the pulse becomes accelerated and the circulation en- feebled. The symptoms of thyroidism are rapid pulse and palpitation, tremors, perspiration, nausea, and sometimes diarrhoea, while the tem- perature may be slightly raised. On account of the dangers attendant on thyroidism, it is always essential to keep patients in bed during the earlier periods of administration, until it is ascertained what quantity of the drug is tolerated.