PERITONEUM 414 of the abdominal cavity, it carries a layer of peritoneum before it. This layer is the visceral portion of the membrane, and ultimately forms the mesentery. Differentiation of the peri- toneum naturally occurs pari passu with that of the alimentary canal, so that as stomach, small intestine, and large intestine are formed on the one hand, the mesogaster, mesentery, and mesorectum arise on the other. These special names given to the different parts of the visceral peritoneum increase the difficulty of the subject. In the adult the peritoneal cavity consists of two diverticula, the greater and lesser peritoneal sacs. The greater is the one which is usually spoken of as the peritoneal cavity par excellence, and the one which is opened in operations upon the intestines and the other abdominal viscera. The lesser sac, sometimes called the omental sac, lies behind and below the stomach, and extends downwards into the pocket enclosed by the folds of the great omentum. The two cavities communicate by a narrow opening, the foramen of Winslow, which lies beside the neck of the gall-bladder. It may be demonstrated by turning the stomach and omentum upwards and passing the finger along the neck of the gall-bladder. It is bounded in front by the free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum, behind by the inferior vena cava, above by the liver, and below by the duodenum. In the adult these two peritoneal sacs seem to be almost divided from each other, because the opening between them is so small and so hidden. In reality, however, they are nothing- more than two pouches of one cavity. The smaller peritoneal sac is the upper and right half of the original abdominal cavity, and it only becomes shut off from the rest of the cavity during changes in development. If the changes which take place in the stomach are carefully followed, it will be easy to understand the way in which the lesser peritoneal sac becomes shut off from the greater. Originally, as the upper end of the alimentary canal, the stomach is a median and vertically placed structure, slung between two folds of peritoneum, which pass forwards to the liver and back to the vertebral column. Presently it rotates, turning upon its right side, till in the end it lies at right angles to the long axis of the body, instead of parallel to it, so that what ultimately forms the small curvature is morphologically its anterior border, and the great curvature its posterior border, while the pylorus is the lower end. The two ends of the organ, the pylorus and the cai'dia, retain very much their original relation to one another, as they are comparatively fixed, while there is great growth in the intervening muscular wall. The stomach, therefore, comes to form a pouch. The fold of peritoneum which slings it to the spine (its mesentery or mesogaster) is naturally affected by the changes which it undergoes in shape and position, and instead of passing back to the spine as a straight fold, as it did with the primitive vertical stomach, it forms a pouch with its concavity looking upwards and to the right. The formation of this pouch divides the abdominal cavity into its two diverticula, the upper one being at this stage very small in comparison with the other. It is increased in size by the down-growth of the mesogaster to form the great omentum, and when these changes are effected, it constitutes the lesser peritoneal sac, which is thus seen to be nothing more than the upper and right part of the original peritoneal cavity shut off from the rest of the cavity by the curved mesogaster as it follows the rotating stomach. The free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum does not grow proportionately, and it remains as the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. The peritoneum does not cover all the organs equally. It entirely surrounds parts which, like the coils of small intestine, require free mobility, and it appears to enter into specially intimate relations with organs which possess marked powers of absorption and secretion, like the stomach, the pancreas being a possible exception. The relation of the peritoneum to individual organs is often of surgical importance. In lumbar colotomy the incision is planned to reach the uncovered posterior surface of the descending colon. In impermeable stricture of the urethra, supra-pubic puncture of the bladder may safely be performed directly above the pubes, because in distention of the bladder the reflection of peritoneum is carried 2 to 4 cm. above the symphysis pubis. The long mesentery and the free mobility of the small intestine explain why it occurs in such over- whelming proportion of cases of hernia. Hernia of the large intestine is relatively uncommon, although one variety, hernia of the caecum, has been the subject of much discussion. It was at one time believed that the caecum did not possess a complete peritoneal coat; it was thought that when it took part in a hernia the sac was incomplete. Investigation has, however, shown that as a rule this is not the case, but that in 90 per cent of cases the CcEcum has an entire serous investment and even a mesentery of its own. In a small proportion of cases the posterior surface of the caecum is not covered by peritoneum, and if hernia occurs in these cases, the relation of the gut to the sac may be very puzzling, and may cause mistakes of a serious nature. In some cases of this kind the caecum lies in front of the sac, and lias been mistaken for it and opened in operations for the relief of strangulated hernia. In a patient recently admitted to the Royal Free Hospital the reverse condition existed, the sac in his case lying in front of the caecum. When the