471 PHAEYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS slightly marked as to escape detection ; the de- partures from the normal may at times appear altogether insufficient to account for the discom- fort complained of. At other times a pharynx giving rise to no discomfort, but examined in the course of the investigation of some aural or nasal condition, may present marked appearances of a chronic hypertrophic or glandular pharyn- gitis. In connection with this, mention may be made of the granules seen in the pharynx in children. In them the etiological factors, alcohol, tobacco, vocal fatigue are absent; the presence of little projecting granules, varying in size from a pin's head to a pea, cannot be regarded as due to any morbid process, and does not give rise to any symptoms. These granules are part of a tendency to lymphatic enlargement, and are often associated with adenoids. When the voice is affected an examination of the larynx in the majority of cases will probably be vmproductive of any lesion being found, excepting perhaps some minor degree of thickening of the mucosa in the inter- arytenoid space. The explanation I have to offer of the vocal impairment in the absence of any laryngeal lesion is that given in discussing the etiology of the disease. On theoretical grounds it is conceivable that the impairment of the muscular action of the pharynx, which is directly due to the morbid process, may by reflex action weaken the laryngeal muscles for the freer manipulation of tones of the singing voice. On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that the subject of chronic pharyngitis suffers most when the general health is run down, and the vocal weakness may be quite as much evidence of general loss of tone as of the pharyngitis itself. Without attaching undue importance to lesions in the post-nasal space and the nasal cavities themselves, it may be stated that no examina- tion of a case of chronic pharyngitis can be considered to be complete unless these upper air-passages have been carefully inspected. Naso-pharyngeal catarrh, hypertrophic rhin- itis, and obstructive nasal lesions, when present, are usually more than merely complicating disorders; they stand in direct causal relation- ship to the pharyngeal disease, and their removal is necessary to eradicate it. Treatment.—There is, perhaps, no disease of such frequent occurrence as chronic pharyngitis, which occasions the patient by its persistency so much distress, and the practitioner by its rebelliousness to treatment so much disappoint- ment, a disappointment which is only aggravated by the trivial importance of the disease—trivial only so far as more grave results are not likely to ensue. And yet the treatment is simple, and success can generally be looked for, provided a diagnosis of the situation and cause of the disease is arrived at, and the patient possesses the moder- ate intelligence and strength of will required to co-operate in the treatment. The lack of suc- cess, I think, in many cases must be attributed to insufficient illumination being used in the ex- amination of the parts, all of which can be seen by direct inspection, and to insufficient attention to detail in diagnosis and treatment. It follows from what has been said in dis- cussing the etiology that when the pharyngeal disease is a secondary affection, as it so fre- quently is, the treatment of the general health is of first importance. Should the disease be attendant upon dyspepsia or gastritis, errors in diet must be amended. In the general rules of diet and treatment of gastritis we need not enter in this article, but the importance of relieving any plethora or constipation that may be present cannot be too frequently dwelt upon. A tea- spoonful of some aperient salt, such as Carlsbad, may be taken in a tumbler of hot water on rising, or if the bowels are more constipated the follow- ing pill may be prescribed : Pil. rhei co., pil. colocynth c. hyoscyamo, aa gr. iiss, one or two at night. But even when the pharyngitis is but a mani- festation of some general disorder, local treat- ment is often required. Speaking generally, gargles are of but little service ; they seldom reach the affected parts, excepting in the acute stages of a chronic catarrhal pharyngitis, when the tonsils, uvula, and soft palate are inflamed. In this condition a gargle containing chlorate of potash or alum 3iss, tincture of myrrh 3ij in |viij may be usefully ordered. As the acute stage subsides astringent pigments, such as nitrate of silver or sulphate of zinc, 10 to 20 grains to the ounce, may be applied at intervals of two or three days. Lozenges are so commonly taken that beneficial effects are naturally attributed to them ; but when a gastric disorder has to be combated it is as well to be sparing in the administration of astringent drugs by the mouth. Pastilles are decidedly prefer- able to the hard lozenge, with its rough and angular edges. All the drugs that are known to be of benefit in relieving pharyngitis can now be obtained in the form of pastilles. One con- taining chlorate of potash gr. ij, borax gr. j, and cocaine one-twentieth of a grain, and another containing menthol and cocaine, a twentieth of a grain of each, in my experience, have afforded considerable relief. When the uvula is so elongated as to be obviously a source of irritation, it can easily be reduced. Its removal may be followed, however, by a sharp reaction, and little or no benefit. An application of a 10 per cent solution of eucaine will give sufficient anaesthesia to permit of the tip being held and drawn downwards by a pair of forceps and cut through with curved scissors, care being taken to leave the cut surface on the posterior aspect. If the pharyngitis is kept up by any obstruc-