PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 423 is sudden, but this largely depends upon the actual way in which the invasion of the general peritoneal cavity takes place. If it is due to the perforation of one of the hollow viscera, such as the stomach or intestine, without any previous inflammation of the peritoneum which might tend to localise the escaping contents, the onset comes with alarming suddenness. Liter- ally, within a minute the patient may pass from a condition of apparent health to a condition of collapse and shock, that has been known to end fatally within an hour. In other cases, where an organ, generally the appendix, has become inflamed for some time, the invasion of the general peritoneal cavity is, comparatively speaking, gradual, and it may take from twelve to twenty-four hours before it can be said that acute general peritonitis is definitely established. When very acute, the onset is associated with a rapidly falling temperature. In other cases there may be a rigor and a temperature of 104° or 105° within an hour or two of the commence- ment of the attack. Shock and "Peritonism." — The shock pro- duced by an extensive scald of the skin, or by the skin being badly lacerated, is extreme, and bears a very definite proportion to the area of skin involved. In the same way any extensive lesion of the peritoneum produces a similar con- dition, whether it be due to the irritation of the contents of the stomach—as, for example, in perforation of a gastric ulcer—or to the torsion of an ovarian pedicle. Fain.—This is nearly always the earliest symptom, and may vary from one that is accur- ately described by the term agonising, to one that is slight in intensity, but of the character described above (see p. 422). At first the pain is generalised over the whole abdomen, but later on it is usually referred by the patient to some definite area; very often the region of the um- bilicus seems to be the most painful. In cases where an inflammation of a definite organ has given rise to the peritonitis the pain may be referred to the region of that organ, especially in the case of the appendix. Tenderness.—This tenderness may be of two kinds:— 1. Superficial tenderness or hypereesthesia of the skin. 2. Deep tenderness, which certainly is present in the parietal peritoneum, but may also be present in the muscles or the underlying viscera. The tenderness of inflamed parietal peritoneum is very marked, and is often verified when laparo- tomy is performed under local anaesthesia. The great difficulty of proceeding with the operation is the exquisite tenderness of the parietal layer of the peritoneum (see p. 426). When the superficial tenderness is very extensive it is probably associated with inflammation of the intestines, especially the small gut. According to Head, the superficial tenderness is a referred tenderness from one or more of the organs of the abdomen, and the tenderness would follow the rules laid down by him. For instance, in the case of the intestines being inflamed the superficial tenderness would not necessarily be limited to the front of the abdomen, but there might be a bed of hypereesthesia running to the back or downwards towards the groin. On the other hand, the deep tenderness is due to the direct pressure upon the peritoneum, and is obtainable at any spot where the inflamed peri- toneum can be pressed upon. In general peri- tonitis this deep tenderness, therefore, can be elicited practically over the whole of the ab- domen, with the exception of the area posterior to a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the last rib, where it is not easy to press directly upon the peritoneum. In the early stages of general peritonitis the super- ficial tenderness is nearly always extremely well marked ; but as the inflammation progresses it begins to diminish, and may finally disappear, whereas the deep tenderness progressively in- creases until the general peritonitis is well developed. In nearly all cases of general peri- tonitis some organ of the abdomen is first affected, and this organ may continue to pre- sent its referred superficial tenderness after the general peritonitis has become established. In several cases of general peritonitis arising from appendicitis the writer has found an extensive area of superficial tenderness below the level of the umbilicus co-existing with the deep tender- ness, and at the operation advanced general peritonitis has been found. On this point, therefore, we may make two positive assertions— namely, that if the tenderness is only superficial there is no marked affection of the peritoneum; and that in cases of undoubted suppurative peritonitis due to appendicitis, and probably in any other of the ordinary causes, there may be superficial tenderness existing at the same time as the deep. Sometimes, in an attack of appendicitis in which the inflammation throughout remains localised, the superficial tenderness and rigidity of the abdominal wall may involve the whole of the abdomen in the early stages of the disease. In such cases the symptoms are highly sugges- tive of the onset of general peritonitis, and when associated with marked signs of collapse the dia- gnosis of a ruptured ulcer is sometimes almost forced upon one by the serious condition of the patient. This generalisation of the abdominal signs are probably of reflex origin, the inflamma- tion in the region of the appendix forming a spinatus strong enough to cause a spreading in the central nervous system from the representa- tion of the appendix to that of the whole of the abdominal viscera. It is this class of case that is referred to in the first paragraph of p. 422. In two of these cases the collapse was so great that the diagnosis of perforated gastric ulcer I