161 (ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF by sword swallowers. If the oesophagus alone is wounded, without any external wound, there may be no symptom until cellulitis appears at the root of the neck or surgical empyema, or some septic complication of the lungs or pleurae. When there is an external wound in the neck the escape of saliva and food establishes the diagnosis. The treatment depends upon whether the wound is complete or incomplete. If incomplete, the oesophagus must be well exposed and, if possible, sutured. An oesophageal catheter is then passed through the mouth and left in position for a week or ten days. The external wound is carefully plugged with gauze, and every care is taken that if leakage occurs the discharges can drain freely away. If complete, every effort should be made to stitch the ends together, or, at any rate, to bring them together as much as possible. A catheter is then left in, and the resulting fibrous stricture must be dealt with later. Rupture of the oesophagus is a rare accident. Spontaneous rupture has occurred in a practi- cally healthy tube, but more frequently the wall of the oesophagus has been weakened by ulceration or malignant growths. Inflammation of the CEsophagus.—Acute inflammation of the oesophagus has been met with as a complication in some of the acute specific fevers, such as typhoid and scarlet fever. It has also been described in cholera. Morrell Mackenzie described an acute idiopathic oesophagitis, but nothing very definite as regards its etiology could be stated. Such cases are very rare. In children there is a form of acute oesophagitis said to be due to bad feeding, and a condition associated with thrush is occasion- ally met with termed aphthous oesophagitis. In diphtheria the inflammation may extend from the pharynx, and the membrane may form in the oesophagus. As a rule, this fact is only ascertained at the post-mortem. Of more common occurrence is acute traumatic oesophagitis. This may be caused by the passage of irregularly shaped foreign bodies, but in these cases it is not, as a rule, at all serious, soon subsiding. Much more important is the acute inflammation following the swallowing of corrosive and caustic liquids such as sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, acetic, and oxalic acids, and caustic potash, soda, and ammonia. The degree of inflammation varies according to the amount and degree of dilution of the fluid. These liquids produce a slough of greater or less extent and of a different colour, according to the liquid swallowed, thus :— Sulphuric acid . . Brown. Nitric acid . . Yellow or orange. Hydrochloric acid . Grey or leaden colour. Oxalic acid . . White or cream colour. Around the tissue that is immediately killed by the acid inflammatory changes soon occur, VOL. VII and on the separation of the sloughs there may be hsemorrhage or perforation. If the patient recovers from these dangers there will always be fibrous stricture. Symptoms. — Intense pain accompanied by symptoms of shock are the two prominent symptoms. If the patient survives the shock, there may be a period of freedom from pain and absence of any definite symptoms. Within twenty-four hours or earlier colicky pains in the abdomen, diarrhoea, with bloody stools, and symptoms pointing generally to implication of the abdominal viscera, appear. So far as the oesophagus is concerned there may be cellulitis spreading in the mediastinum, and fistulas forming in connection with the trachea and bronchi. If the patient escapes all these dangers, there are yet the symptoms associated with fibrous stricture to develop. Treatment.—Immediate neutralisation of the poison by an appropriate draught, and the washing out of the stomach by a syphon, or, if that is not obtainable, by induced vomiting. Abundance of white of egg and water should be given to drink. The patient should be fed solely on milk. If there is dysphagia the patient must be fed per rectum. For the symptoms and treatment of fibrous stricture see p. 164. Foreign Bodies.—A great variety of foreign bodies have been swallowed and detained in the oesophagus. In the case of ordinary adult persons artificial teeth and coins are the most common objects. With children a much greater diversity of bodies are swallowed, and with lunatics a most extraordinary variety of foreign bodies have been found—forks, spoons, pen- knives, etc. Symptoms.—These vary enormously according to the size and shape of the body, and they fall naturally into two groups. The immediate or primary, and the secondary or remote symptoms. Immediate or Primary Symptoms. —When the body is a large one there is a sense of stifling or suffocation, with an extreme anxiety or even a feeling of impending death, which may be due to actual pressure on the respiratory tract, or to some reflex nervous affection; sorne- times to a combination of the two. The voice becomes altered, and the act of swallowing is inhibited, and there is often vomiting and coughing. Pain is generally a marked symp- tom. It is shooting in character, radiating up and down the neck ; it may be in the sternal reo-ion or in the back between the scapulse, the exact distribution of the pain depending upon the part of the oesophagus in which the body lodges. After a few minutes these acute symptoms usually subside, leaving a persistent pain, increased by swallowing or vomiting, and generally some alteration of the voice. There is difficulty in deglutition, and sometimes a swelling can be felt in the neck. The duration