PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUKO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 557 downwards only into the dorsal region, fibres decussate in the cord. These c.gen Fig. 92.—View of the medulla oblongata, corpora quadrigemina, and the optic thalami from above, c.l.a.. Posterior columns of cord; VIII., XII., X., indicate the roots of these cranial nerves; p.c.i., the restiform body; p.c.m., the middle peduncle of the cerebellum; p.c.s., the superior peduncle of the cerebellum; t.g., the anterior and posterior corpora quadrigemina ; c.o., the optic thalamus with pulvinar (pulv.) and external and internal geniculate bodies behind it; e.p., the pineal body. The separation of the posterior columns of the cord and the opening out of the floor of the fourth ventricle is shown. (Van Gehuchten.) 3. A set of fibres just inside the antero- lateral ascending tract, which may be called the antero-lateral descending tract (Fig. 87, Desc. Ant. Lat.). This comes from Deiters' nucleus {see infra), and as it passes down, gives off fibres to the cells in the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord. Deiters' nucleus receives fibres from the cerebellum, and the antero- lateral descending tract thus carries down impulses from that organ. 4. From the red nucleus (p. 560) some fibres pass down the cord as the pre- pyramidal tract just in front of the crossed pyramidal tract. C. Fibres not Degenerating beyond the Cord. — Proprio-spinal Fibres. — Round the grey matter, a band of fibres—the basis bundles (Fig. 87, B.B.)—and out- side of these, scattered through the white matter chiefly of the lateral columns, other fibres degenerate in the cord and seem to be commissural between different levels of the grey matter {see p. 553). Other tracts of fibres have been described, such as Lissauer's tract and the septo-marginal tract, but their relations have not been satis- factorily investigated. B. The Medulla Oblongata 1. Structure The medulla oblongata may be regarded as the upper end of the spinal cord, which it con- nects with the brain (Fig. 92). The cord ex- pands and the posterior median fissure is opened out, so that the central canal comes to the sur- face, and expands into a lozenge-shaped area— the Jloor of the fourth ventricle. The lateral columns of the cord pass outwards to the cere- bellum to form part of its inferior peduncles —the restiform bodies. Between the lateral and the anterior columns an almond-shaped swelling, the olive, appears (Fig. 94, 0.). Above this the medulla is encircled by a mass of transverse fibres—the middle peduncles of the cerebellum, or the jooms Varolii {¥ig. 96, P.). The floor of the fourth ventricle is constricted above by the approximation of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (Fig. 92, p.c.s.) to again become a canal. The grey matter of the cord gets broken up into separate masses, of which the most im- portant are— 1. The nuclei of the posterior columns—the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus (Fig. 93, N.G. and N.G.)—masses of cells and synapses in which the fibres of the posterior columns end, and from which the upgoing fibres of the fillet start. 2. The inferior olivary nucleus (Fig. 94, 0.), which lies in the olive, and which is connected by bands of fibres with the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum (Fig. 96, Dent.). 3. The nucleus of Deiters (Fig. 96, Deit.), Fig. 93. Cross section through medulla oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids. P.M. and P.L., postero-median and postero-lateral tracts of the cord; N.G. and N.C., nucleus gracilis and cuneatus, giving off the fillet fibres crossing at F.; I'., ascending root of fifth nerve ; G., nucleus of glossopharyngeal nerve ; A.H., anterior horn of spinal cord ; P., the anterior pyramids ; D.C., direct cerebellar tract; A. and D. Ant.L., ascending and descending antero-lateral tracts. (After Bruce.) lying higher up in the pons Varolii, and con- nected with fibres from the cerebellum and from the semicircular canals {see Fig. 81).