398 PENIS, SUKGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE posthitis consists of red and raw patches, more on the glans than the prepuce. It is probably a form of gouty eczema. The patches may ulcerate and cause secondary phimosis. Dia- betic balano-posthitis is similar to the moist eczema found in the female genitals. Caver7iitis.—This is an inflammation of the erectile tissues, generally due to erysipelas, cellulitis, or injury. A form of chronic indura- tion of the erectile tissue occurs in gouty sub- jects, and consists in local patches of induration behind the glans or in front of the pvibes. Eicord has described a similar condition after gonorrhoea and syphilis. Cellulitis may occur in the penis from inflam- mation within the urethra or without. The former is due to gonorrhoea, or inflammation of the glands and lacunae of the urethra; the latter to phimosis, balanitis, injury, etc. Elephantiasis rarely attacks the penis alone. Erysipelas may attack the penis, usually by extension from other parts. Gangrene of the penis may occur after specific fevers, such as smallpox, typhoid, and typhus. Local causes may be phimosis, sloughing, balanitis, paraphimosis, phagedenic sores, or injury by rings, etc. Gout.—Acute gout of the penis was described by Paget, occurring as a gouty urethritis, with swelling and heat of the penis. Chronic inter- stitial cavernitis and gouty balanitis are other conditions due to gout. Gummata occasionally occur in the penis, but are rare. Herpes Progenitalis. — This consists in the development of vesicles on an inflamed base, either on the glans or the inner side of the prepuce, occasionally on the outer surface of the prepuce. The vesicles dry up in a few days, leaving small scabs. If irritated the affection may suppurate. Sometimes it is pre- ceded by severe neuralgic pains. The disease has a tendency to recur. The diagnosis of herpes from chancre is seldom difficult unless the vesicles have suppurated. It must be re- membered, however, that herpes may furnish a breach of surface through which the syphilitic virus may penetrate and develop a chancre at the site of the herpes. Treatment consists in cleanliness and simple dusting powder. Lymphangitis occurs as a complication of gonorrhoea and venereal sores. Neuralgia of the penis occurs in gout, accord- ing to Paget. Tuberculous ulcers may occur on the penis, sometimes from inoculation of a circumcision wound. New Growths 1. Simple. — The chief of these are nsevi, cartilage, and bone, sebaceous cysts, horns, and papillomata. The occurrence of cartilage and bone is rare, and in most cases due to calcifica- tion and gouty thickening. In some cases true osseous tissue has been found in the septum between the corpora cavernosa. Velpeau has recorded a case of a bony prolongation from the pubes, forming a true os penis. Sebaceous cysts sometimes occur in a long foreskin. Horns may arise from a wart or a sebaceous cyst. They are of two forms : one a flat plate, the other a projection, which may be an inch or more long. They should be removed by excision, as they may give rise to epithelioma. Papillomata may occur as simple warts on the penis or as venereal warts on the glans and foreskin. Venereal warts are thought by some to be due to irri- tation from venereal or leucorrhoeal discharges, by others to be independent of them. In the female they may attain a large size, forming pedunculated masses round the vulva. They should be excised either by the knife or thermo- cautery. Malignant Tumours; Epithelioma.—Accord- ing to Paget, this forms 1 per cent of all cancers. It begins on the glans and prepuce, and may be superficial or deep. It usually arises as a warty excrescence which ulcerates, infiltrates the adjacent tissues, and usually assumes a cauliflower form of growth. Another form begins as a deep-seated lump of induration. Epithelioma may also arise in a chancrous ulcer, or in the healed scar of a chancre. Microscopi- cally epithelioma of the penis is of the squamous form. Implication of the lymphatic glands is a grave complication, but visceral metastases are rare. It is rare before forty-five years of age. Predisposing causes are phimosis, venereal sores, gouty balanitis, and injuries. Diagnosis.—-This is most important to make in the pre-cancerous stage, and all doubtful warty growths should be removed early. A foul discharge between the papillse and a fixed and indurated base suggests malignant disease. From indurated chancre the diagnosis is usually easy, since the chancre is an ulcerated induration, while the epithelioma is an indurated ulceration. The deep-seated form of epithelioma may, however, be diSicult to diagnose. Sarcoma. — This may occur as a primary sarcoma of the erectile tissues or secondary to sarcoma of the testicle. The sarcoma is usually round and spindle celled. A few cases of melanotic sarcoma have been recorded. The only treatment is extirpation of the penis. Chief Operations on the Penis Amputation of the Penis.—This is indicated in cases of epithelioma and sarcoma. The operation may be partial or complete. Partial Amputation.—This is best done by a flap operation. A narrow-bladed knife is entered well behind the disease, between the corpus spongiosum and the corpora cavernosa, and a short inferior flap is cut. From this the urethra is dissected out. A dorsal flap is cut