PARALYSIS 300 ence of some impairment of sensation does not necessarily exclude the possibility that the con- dition is an anterior poliomyelitis. Sometimes there is severe pain in the back and in the limb affected. The majority of adult patients who are affected are attacked between twenty and thirty years of age. The prognosis is unfavourable. It is said that complete recovery may take place, but in the majority of cases but little recovery is seen. With regard to the etiology of the affection, it seems to follow very much the same affections as are seen in the infantile form—-that is to say, after severe cold, and the specific fevers, measles, diphtheria, influenza, and after pro- longed exertion. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the affection, which is simple in the child, is in the adult a matter of considerable difficulty, since there are other affections in them which closely resemble poliomyelitis, and which occur far more fre- quently than this affection. The most import- ant of these is a polyneuritis, and it not infre- quently happens that in that disease a history is obtained of sudden loss of power. Sensory disturbances should theoretically form a dia- gnostic feature ; but they may be present in anterior poliomyelitis, and may sometimes be absent in a polyneuritis. Tenderness of the muscles and trophic changes in the skin would be in favour of a polyneuritis, while an affection of muscles not corresponding to a spinal segment would point in the same direction. It must, however, be admitted that the distinction be- tween poliomyelitis and polyneuritis is in many cases impossible; in fact, it is probable that the whole lower neurone is affected, and that those which are longest are most prone to suffer. Hemorrhage into the tipinal Cord.—The rapid onset of paralysis cavised by haemorrhage into the spinal cord may suggest the diagnosis of an acute poliomyelitis, and the flaccid paralysis of the legs and the loss of knee-jerk which often accompany it also point in the same direction. The later stage of the disease is essentially different, and the alteration in sensation and the spastic condition of the legs, with increased knee-jerks, usually enable a correct diagnosis to be made. Subacute Poliomyelitis.—The occurrence of this form of poliomyelitis, as apart from pro- gressive muscular atrophy, has been doubted; but the distinctive character of the disease is that paralysis first appears, and is followed by muscular atrophy, which is not the case in the disease known as progressive muscular atrophy. Etiology.—The disease occurs in association with pregnancy and with metallic poisoning. It is also said to occur in individuals who have been the subject of acute poliomyelitis in infancy. Symptoms.—The disease begins gradually with weakness in one or other extremity, followed after a few weeks or months by weakness in another limb. Following on this loss of power there is muscular atrophy, fibrillary tremor, and a partial or complete reaction of degenera- tion. The malady is progressive, and is fatal either by involving the respiratory centres or by some pulmonary affection. Prognosis.—The disease is usually progressive. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis from a progressive muscular atrophy lies in the fact that the dis- ease is usually more widespread, and that the paralysis appears before the muscular atrophy. Pathology.—The pathological identity of these cases is not established; in some the process would seem to be similar to that found in the acute poliomyelitis of infants, namely, a vascular lesion, while in others a primary atrophy of the cells of the anterior horn has been found. In the vascular form localised foci with cell- infiltration, and destruction of the ganglion cells, and finally a condition of sclerosis are found. In the second form there is a general atrophy of the cells of the anterior horns and of the ground substance of the grey matter. In many of the cases there is scattered degeneration of the antero-lateral tracts. Chronic Spinal Muscular Atrophy and Bulbar Paralysis.—There are two affections, "progressive muscular atrophy" and "chronic nuclear bulbar paralysis," that usually receive separate descriptions, but which may with advantage be considered together, in that, from the pathological standpoint, they are of the same nature. To these may be added a third affection, " amyotrophic lateral sclerosis," which is also essentially the same. The underlying morbid condition in these three affections is a progressive degeneration of the motor neurones of the spinal coi'd, medulla oblongata, and brain respectively. Even clinically these affections present certain features in common : but differ- ent types can, nevertheless, be distinguished according as the symptomatology indicates an affection of the motor neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord (progressive muscular atrophy); similar affection of the neurones of the motor nerves in the medulla oblongata, the cells of which nuclei are the homologues of the anterior horn cells of the spinal coi'd (bulbar paralysis); or implication of the motor neurones of the cerebral cortex, in conjunction with those of one or other, or both of the lower levels, in which case sclerosis of the lateral columns of the spinal cord is added, and the affection is known as "amyotrophic lateral sclerosis." Etiology.—It is exceptional for moi'e than one memlser of a family to be attacked, and only in very rare instances has there been any evidence of direct transmission from parent to offspring, so that these affections contrast strikingly with the myopathic forms of muscular