431 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL as far as the levator ani. With gentle pressure from above the bulging of the abscess may be felt, and the muscle should be perforated with a pair of sinus forceps. The opening may then be enlarged, the pus washed out, and a drainage tube inserted. I have performed this operation in one patient with an excellent result, the abscess closing in a remarkably short time. The only trouble here is the question of haemor- rhage ; if a large branch of one of the hsemor- rhoidal arteries or veins be divided there may be considerable haemorrhage before it can be readily stopped. Peritoneum — Tuberculous Peritonitis. Mode of Infection . . . .431 Varieties . . . . . .431 Miliary Peritoneal Tuherctdosis . 431 Symptoms . . . . .431 Treatment . . . . .431 Chronic Tuberculous Peritonitis— Varieties ..... 432 Symptoms ..... 432 Duration ..... 432 Complications .... 432 Treatment . . . . .432 Peritonitis associated with Pneumococci 433 Peritonitis associated with Suppura- tion IN other Serous Membranes, or POLYORROMENITIS .... 434 Peritonitis in the New-Born— Congenital or Foetal.... 434 Acquired...... 434 Peritonitis due to Actinomycosis . . 434 Tuberculous Peritonitis most often occurs in patients under twenty years of age, and in boys, perhaps, rather more frequently than in girls. It is an inflammation of the peritoneum asso- ciated with the presence of Koch's tubercle bacillus or the toxins produced by it. The infection reaches the peritoneum by the alimentary canal, through the blood-stream or along the lymphatics. Tuberculous peritonitis is hardly ever primary, though it is possible for the bacilli to leave an intestine which is anatomically intact. It is generally secondary to other tuberculous foci either in the bronchial glands, the bones, joints, or even the genito- urinary tract. The mesenteric glands may be the seat of tuberculous deposits, but the more common enlargements of these glands occurring in tabes mesenterica, known as " consumption of the bowels," is nearly always associated with chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh, which is the result of improper feeding and is not tuber- culous in origin. Anything which lowers the resisting power of the peritoneum will, as in other tuberculous leisons, determine the deposit of the bacillus, so that injuries to the abdomen, new growths in the form of cysts or hydatids, and such abdominal operations as the radical cure of hernia, etc., may lead to an attack of tuberculous peritonitis in persons who are otherwise predisposed to the disease. Varieties.—Tuberculous peritonitis occurs in a miliary or acute form, and in a cJwonic ulcerat- ing and fibrous type. But this classification is only adopted for descriptive purposes, since every case which is examined carefully will show evidence of the co-existence of each variety. A tuberculous peritonitis may run its course without suppuration, as a pure culture of tubercle bacillus is not pyogenic. The infection, on the other hand, is usually a mixture of tubercle bacilli with staphylococci, so that pus is often found. Miliary peritoneal tuberculosis is usually acute, and partly in consequence of the intimate ancestral connection between the peritoneum and pleura, partly owing to the greater ab- sorptive power possessed by the peritoneum covering the diaphragm, the pleura is nearly always affected in this form of peritonitis. Symptoms. — The onset is generally slow, though in some cases it is so sudden that the abdomen has been opened for the relief of acute intestinal obstruction. The usual symptoms are pain and tenderness over the abdomen, a flatulent distension of the intestines, malaise, headache, quick breathing, and an anxious expression. The bowels are relaxed and there are occasional attacks of diarrhoea; whilst the patient has a hectic temperature—that is to say, the feverishness is better marked in the afternoon and evening than in the morning—and he loses flesh. The local abdominal symptoms are often masked by those belonging to the general tuberculosis of which they form a part. But there is no doubt that many cases have been mistaken for typhoid fever until the appearance of dropsy or a post-mortem examination has revealed the true nature of the disease. The acute cases last from one to three months, and end either in death or by passing into one of the more chronic forms. When death occurs it is due more to the general condition of the patient than to the peritonitis. The prognosis, therefore, though bad, is not quite hopeless, but it should be remembered that the condition is one which is peculiarly likely to recur. The general peritoneal cavity remains open during the acute stage of miliary tuberculosis, and is not shut off hj adhesions, and the inflamed visceral layer of the peri- toneum is studded with numberless small, grey translucent tubercles which feel quite hard. The mesenteric glands, though enlarged, are not greatly affected. 'Treatment.—Unfortunately, very little can be done for those cases of acute miliary tuber- culosis. The affection is only part of a general disease, and it is useless to open the abdomen. Reliance must therefore be placed on constitu-