348 PARASITES the Transvaal Colony, the parasite is exceedingly common. Guillemard (1897), for instance, states that in Pietermaritzburg the majority of the male youths were apparently infected, and that in the Transvaal a large proportion of the male population suffer from the parasite. It is also found, though less frequently, along the whole of the east coast of Africa, on the borders of Lake Nyassa and of the Zambesi, in Tunis, the Gold Coast, Madagascar, Mauritius, and Arabia; and, as might be expected, cases are at times imported into other countries. When the eggs are passed with the urine or fceces, they each contain a ciliated embryo or Miracidium. If the eggs are allowed to remain in the urine or get into water containing decomposing animal matter, the ovid embryo within each soon dies; but if the eggs are carried into pure water the embryos are soon hatched out, and are then of somewhat elongated form and actively motile. The subsequent stages of its life history are still uncertain, but as ingestion of free embryos by monkeys and other animals has not resulted in their being infected, it is probable that the life-cycle is similar to that of F. hepatica, and that an encysted parasite is essential for infection of man. The actual mode of infection is likewise unknown, and although the frequency of the disease in Africa in those who are in the habit of bathing in fresh water points to the possi- bility of infection being brought about by penetration of the parasites along the urethra or rectum, it is more probable that persons are infected by ingestion of the parasites. Further anatomical details of the worms and a number of experimental inoculations are recorded in the monograph of Lortet and Vialleton, £tiide sur le Bilh. haimat. et la Bilharziose (1894). The adult parasites live in large numbers within the tributaries of the portal vein. The females, which are in excess of the males, pro- duce an abundance of eggs which block the portal capillaries and thus cause venous con- gestion and haemorrhage. There is also a more or less diffuse infiltration of eggs throughout the mucous and submucous coats of the bladder, rectum, or other pelvic viscus, with consequent inflammatory infiltration also. The changes are most pronounced in the bladder. The mucous membrane is covered with blood-tinged mucus, presents patches of hyperseraia and ecchymoses, and there is thickening pai'tly of an inflammatory nature of the bladder wall. In cases of old-standing, papilliferous outgrowths or projections from the vesical mucous membrane are seen, and these projections, as well as the mucous membrane generally, are not infre- quently infiltrated with urinary salts, chiefly urates and oxalates. Ulceration of the mucous membrane is not seen in all cases. Microscopi- cally the eggs are found chiefly in the more superficial strata of the bladder wall, and around them is more or less extensive leucocytic infiltration. The earliest symptoms associated with these vesical lesions are pain and slight intermittent htematuria, which in course of time becomes more frequent and more constant. The frequency of micturition is increased, and the urine contains red blood corpuscles, pus cells, blood-clots, urinary crystals of various kinds, with much mucus, large numbers of eggs, epithelial cells, and debris. The disease is rarely confined to the bladder. The seminal vesicles and rectum are often affected, the ureters and kidneys less frequently so. In each instance the pathological conditions are essentially the same as those seen in the bladder. Involvement of the seminal vesicles is indicated by perineal pain and tenderness; infection of the rectum is either primary or secondary to infection of the bladder, and is characterised by symptoms similar to those of dysentery and by the presence of the eggs in tiie fseces; the spread of the disease to the ureters leads to pyelitis, hydronephrosis, pyelo- nephritis, and the formation of renal calculi. The eggs are seldom seen in the prostate, mesenteric glands, lungs, or liver, and have never been detected in the spleen, pancreas, or stomach. The prognosis depends largely on the degree of infection; the most severe forms of the disease are observed in Egypt, and the patients often become markedly antemic and wasted, and succumb to the disease. In many cases, how- ever, in which there is not repeated reinfection, the inflammatory processes gradually subside and the patients regain their normal health. The only curative measures of avail are the re- moval, if possible, of the patient from the district in which the disease prevails, and such treat- ment as is directed to the relief of symptoms and the maintenance of the patient's strength. Schistosomuvi bovis [Sch. crussum), which is parasitic in the portal tributaries of cattle and sheep in Egypt, Italy, Sicily, and possibly in India, is a different species from Sch. h(xma- tobium of man. Cestodbs Tapeworms.—These are flat worms without mouth or alimentary canal. Each tapeworm of man consists of a head or scolex, a neck, and a chain of proglottides or segments which, whilst remaining attached to one another, constitute a " strobilus." The whole tapeworm is therefore often regarded, not as a single animal, but as a polymorphic colony. The outer surface of a cestode consists of a cuticular membrane, within which is a parenchyma diff'erentiated into a peripheral layer and a central mass, and in the parenchyma there are calcareous corpuscles and fusiform muscle fibres. For the adhesion of the worm to the host the muscle fibres in the