(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 166 the pressure of the sac and its contents upon the oesophagus. In addition to the pressure exercised by the pouch upon the oesophagus, the larynx may be compressed as well as the trachea and the recurrent laryngeal nerves, so that there may be interference with respiration and with phonation. When the pouch reaches a certain size it may be felt in the neck, and by pressure it may be possible to empty it so that the contents regurgitate into the cavity of the mouth. There is generally a characteristic foetid odour of the patient's breath, which is due to decomposition taking place in the pouch. On passing an oesophageal bougie it usually enters the pouch, as that seems to be in the direct line of the food. With a few manipula- tions it may be possible to pass the pouch and enter the main passage of the oesophagus. Complications are very frequent, especially by the perforation of the pouch into the tissues of the neck or thorax. Treatment.—The patient should be advised to take small mouthfuls of food, to masticate it well, and to press upon the pouch during the act of swallowing so as to endeavour to prevent the food entering the diverticula. The only satisfactory cure for the trouble is by operation. The pouch should be freely exposed in the neck and removed. The details of the operation wovild depend upon the situation, size, and rela- tions of the pouch. Malformations of.the CEsophagus.—These are very rare and of no great practical import- ance. The oesophagus has been found totally absent in a new-born child, and this deficiency is always accompanied by other gross malforma- tions. The oesophagus may be imperfect, an interval of varying extent existing between the two ends, which are iisually united with a thread of fibi'ous tissue. Very often the lower end communicates with the trachea or bronchi. Congenital stenosis of the oesophagus, either at its conunencement or at the cardiac end, has been described. Certain Rare Affections of the Oesophagus. —Tubercle, syphilis, and actinomycosis are occasionally met with in the oesophagus. They present no special features from such diseases occurring in other parts of the body. A varicose condition of the veins of the oeso- phagus has been described, especially at the upper end of the tube. CEstruS or CEstrum.—The period of sexual desire; the rut in animals (Gr. oTa-Tpo';, the gadfly, frenzy). Menstruation in the human female corresponds not so much to the oestrus in animals as to the period preceding it, the pro-oestrum. See also Ancestrum ; Dicestrum ; Metcestrum ; Menstruation {(Estrus); Pro- cestrum ; ETC. Oeynhausen. See Balneology {Ger- many, Westphalia). OfFcll.—In connection with the slaughtering of animals, those parts which are cut off in dressing the carcase are called offal; the term includes either the entrails only, or the head and tail as well. Offensive.—The term "offensive" is applied in Public Health to those trades which produce a nuisance or prove injurious to the health of the community. Under the Public Health Act of 1875 (England) six trades are regarded as offensive, viz., blood, bone, soap, and tripe boiling, fell-mongering and tallow- melting ; but seven others may be regarded as offensive, viz., blood-drying, gut-scraping, fat- melting or fat-extracting, glue-making, size- making, tanning, and leather-dressing. The P.H.A. of 1897 (Scotland) includes the businesses of blood, bone, soap, and tripe boiling, tallow- melting and manure manufacture, knacker, tanner, gut or tripe cleaner, skinner or hide factor, slaughtering of cattle or horses, and " any other trade which the local authority may declare to be an offensive trade." Special by-laws for the regulation of these trades, and especially for the prevention of effluvia, have been issued by the Local Government Board; the premises where these offensive businesses are carried on are open to the inspection of the medical officer of health or such other official as may be appointed for the purpose. Official and Officinal.—Authorised by the Pharmacopoeia; used of a medical pre- paration kept in stock in apothecaries' shops and made according to a recipe in the Phar- macopoeia. The Latin term officina meant a workshop or laboratory, and, later, its use was extended to the storeroom in a monastery in which provisions and drugs were kept. OgrStOn'S Line. —An imaginary line drawn from the intercondylic notch (fossa in- tercondyloidea) of the femur to the adductor tubercle of the same bone; it is a guide in the operation of section of the internal condyle. Og'ston's Operation.—Resection of the astragalo-scaphoid joint. See Deformities {Fiat-Foot, 'Treatment of the Fourth Degree). Ohinemutu. See Balneology {New Zealand, Lahe Rotorua). Ohm.—The unit of electric resistance; it is so named after Georg Simon Ohm (1787- 1854), a German physicist and the discover of the law in electricity known as Ohm's law ("the strength of the current in a circuit varies directly as the electromotive force and inversely as the resistance (or directly as the conductance) of the circuit"). A microhm is one millionth of an ohm, and a megohm is one million oluns; the international ohm (of 1893) is the resistance of a column of mercury at 0°C.,