OESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 162 and severity of these symptoms naturally depend upon the size and shape of the foreign body, and consequently there is a very wide range in the clinical features of these cases. Remote or Secondary Symptoms.—The most important of these is haemorrhage, as the result of ulceration of the wall of the (Esophagus into the wall of one of the great vessels—the aorta, carotids, pulmonary artery, and vense cavse. This even may occur as early as the seventh or eighth day, or at the end of six months. There may be one huge gush of blood or frequent haemorrhages of varying extent. The ulcera- tion of the oesophagus may involve the trachea, bronchi, or pleurae, leading to various septic troubles—empyema, septic pneumonia, etc. Septic inflammation may spread to all the tissues in the neighbourhood, leading more especially to cellulitis or abscess in the posterior mediastinum. Diagnosis.—Just at first it may be difficult to say whether the body is in the respiratory tract or in the oesophagus. As soon as the acute symptoms subside this matter can be easily settled by a careful examination of the symptoms and by means of a laryngoscope, etc. The exact position of the foreign body is not always easily determined; the oesophageal bougie or probang may fail to localise it. In practically all cases radiography at once solves the question of localisation. Treatment.—There are numerous methods employed which may be classified as follows:— (1) Propulsion.—If the body is a piece of food it may with safety be pushed on into the stomach, also if it is a smooth body that is not likely to cause any trouble in its passage along the alimentary canal. (2) Removal through the Mouth. — Induced vomiting has sometimes been successful, but if the body is large and irregular in shape the proceeding may become dangerous. Numerous instruments have been designed for the purpose of removing foreign bodies from the oesophagus : a flexible bougie with a ring at the end, the ordinary coin catcher, the probang, various forms of forceps, and by special means for particular cases. (3) Operative Procedure. — If all simple methods have failed, it is advisable not to delay if the case is a suitable one for operation. Much mischief may ensue while the body remains in situ, and there is very little chance of the body being expelled spontaneously. The operative procedures are :—Cervical oesophagotomy, thor- acic oesophagotomy, and gastrotomy. (a) Cervical (Eso]jhagotomy.—If the foreign body is impacted in the upper half of the oesophagus this operation is most likely to be successful. When the foreign body is in the cervical portion of the oesophagus there is generally little or no difficulty in removing it. When the body is in the thoracic portion, this operation enables one to use instruments for its extraction to much greater advantage than through the mouth. The operation consists in making a skin incision from 3 to 4 inches long in the middle line between the larynx and the supra-sternal notch. The anterior borde of the left sterno-mastoid muscle is exposed and hooked outwards. The omo-hyoid muscle is divided. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are also divided but carefully preserved, so that they can be sutured together again. The trachea, together with the thyroid gland, is gently pulled towards the right. As a rule, it is not necessary to retract the carotid artery and jugular vein. As soon as the trachea is pulled to the right the oesophagus is readily found at the level of the cricoid cartilage, deviating to the left of the middle line. With care, the tube can be exposed for about two inches. If the foreign body can be felt the tube should be opened at the most convenient spot. If the body is below the level of the wound the oesophagus should be opened as low down as possible, taking care to avoid the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. By means of suit- able forceps it may then be possible to extract the foreign body. Unless the oesophagus is much damaged, the incision into it should be stitched with catgut and the wound carefully drained. (b) Thoracic CEsophagotomy.—If the foreign body is definitely localised in the lower part of the thoracic portion, it has been suggested that the oesophagus should be reached by removing portions of three or four ribs near their angles and taking care to avoid wounding the pleura. Above the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra it would be safer to operate on the right side, so as to avoid the aorta. Below the level of the eighth dorsal the pleura on the right side passes to the back of the oesophagus between it and the vertebral column, so that it would be safer to approach it on the left side. I am not aware that this operation has been successfully performed on the living subject. (c) Gastrotomy.—In cases where the foreign body is implicated near the cardiac orifice, it may be necessary to open the stomach and to endeavour to remove the foreign body by that route. Growths of the (Esophagus. — Simple Tumours.—These are very rarely met with. Whatever their structure may be they have a great tendency to assume a polypoid form, i.e. they have a pedicle of varying length. Most of the recorded cases were fibromata, myomata, rayxomata, and curious growths containing cysts filled with altered blood. They are quite surgi- cal curiosities. Malignant.—These are practically always carcinomata. One or two cases of sarcoma have been described. Carcinoma may occur at any part of the oesophagus, but tends to form at those places where the calibre is the narrowest,