NOSE—NASAL NEUUOSES 98 been observed in cases of tabes dorsalis (Althaus); general paralysis of the insane, in meningitis, abscess, tumours, syphilis, etc. Again, functional anosmia has been associated with other phenomena of hysteria. Moreover, reflex anosmia has been observed following removal of both ovaries. The symptoms complained of are inability to perceive odours of flowers, and loss of taste, for the perception of flavours in food and drink depends on the smell. The loss of smell may be partial or complete; it may affect both nasal passages, or it may be unilateral (hemi- anosmia). In testing the sense of smell it is necessary to use some non-irritating odoriferous substance, such as musk, otto of roses, or vanilla. Irritant vapours, such as ammonia, may be recognised by a patient suffering from anosmia, owing to its stimulating effect for nerves of common sensation as distinguished from the olfactory nerves. Hyperosmia, or increased sensitiveness to smell, is sometimes observed in hysteria, neur- asthenia, and hypochondriasis; it may also re- sult from irritation of the olfactory lobes from various causes. Paros7iiia, perversion of the olfactory sense with subjective perception of imaginary odours, is always a central nerve affection. It generally occurs after influenza, and has been noticed in hysterical patients, epileptics, and in insanity. Cacosniia, the perception of a bad odour, is generally due to the existence of some disease of the nasal passages or accessory sinuses, or to the presence of a foreign body, but more rarely it is subjective and due to disorder of the olfactory nerve tract. The prognosis in olfactory neuroses depends on the nature of the lesion and the length of time that the loss of power of olfaction has existed. When the outcome of some intranasal disease which is amenable to treatment, the prospect of the functional restoration of the sense of smell is favourable; cases are on record where such restoration has occurred after many years' anosmia, though Morell Mackenzie con- sidered that anosmia which had persisted for two years or more was beyond recovery. When due to attacks of influenza recovery is possible, notwithstanding that the loss of smell is complete and lasting for many months; parosmia and partial anosmia in the acute stages of influenza, or immediately following the febrile attack, usually disappears after a few weeks. In all such cases it should be remem- bered that nasal accessory sinus disease fre- quently supervenes on influenza, and that per- version of the sense of smell is generally a notable and sometimes the only symptom noticed by the patient in latent "sinusitis." Hysterical anosmia would be associated with other hysterical stigmata, while anosmia which can be traced to tumours or other organic lesions of the central nervous system, or to commencing insanity, becomes a minor feature in a grave and often irremediable disease. Treatment. — In cases of purely "nervous" origin, and in those due to intranasal disease, but persisting after such causal lesions have been removed, the exhibition of arsenic and strychnine, combined with local galvanisation and local submucous injections of strychnine, are the means which afford the best hopes of success in my experience. It is generally neces- sary that the treatment should be continued for a considerable period. Neuroses of Common Sensation and Vasomotor Neuroses The physiological reflexes of the nasal passages, e.g. sneezing, lachrymation, and rhinorrhoea, due sometimes to bright light, sometimes to the stimulation of the nasal mucosa, sufficiently indicate that the innervation of the nasal mucous membrane is closely associated with neighbour- ing regions. But other less obvious relationships are shown: for instance, in the occurrence of sneezing on sexual excitement, the rhinitis following sexual excitement or sexual excess, the epistaxis which has been known to recur at the menstrual period of some women, and the anatomical differences in the nasal mucous mem- branes of the bull and the bullock which John Wright has demonstrated. Hyperesthesia and Neuralgia. — The nasal mucous membrane is often hypersensitive in patients who suffer from hay fever and other forms of paroxysmal sneezing and rhinorrhoea. The existence of particularly sensitive areas may sometimes be detected by touching with a probe. Neui'algia is sometimes referred to the nose from implication of the branches of the fifth nerve to the nasal passages, but though less common, it is due to much the same causes as facial neuralgia generally. Paroxysmal Sneezing.—Sneezing is a reflex phenomenon in which three factors co-operate : (I) an external stimulus, (2) excitation of a bulbar centre, and (3) efferent impulses cul- minating in the act of sneezing. Paroxysmal or excessive sneezing arises from hyperexcita- bility either peripheral or central, or both. Thus in many cases the pathological factor is some abnormally sensitive area in the nasal passages (sensori-motor), e.g. a septal spur ; or it is a purely central neurosis (ideo-motor), e.g. in "hay fever" excited by the proximity of artificial flowers; or it is the co-operation of both factors, e.g. in cases where bright sunlight and hay pollen cause hay fever (which is only a particular variety of paroxysmal sneezing); for everyone is exposed to bright sunlight and hay pollen, but only patients of a nervous temperament suffer. The symptoms hardly require lengthy de-