NURSING, TRAINING FOR 134 as that tried in America for some years past, which has been found to answer well. In 1889 a college of nursing was started in connection with one of their medical schools and hospital. In this training institution the probationer nurses receive no pay during the course. A thorough training is rightly regarded as ade- quate remuneration. A short outline of the course of instruction at one of the institutions which can rightly claim to be regarded as a properly equipped college of nursing, is here given:— The training school for nurses, Baltimore, is an integral part of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, and under the same government. The school buildings are within the hospital grounds, but separate from the hospital buildings. The Johns Hopkins Hospital affords exceptional advantages for the education of nurses. It is a general hospital containing 320 beds, and offering opportunities for a thorough and varied practical experience in medical, surgical, gynse- cological, and obstetrical wards. Instruction in the properties and preparation of foods, and in their application to the needs of the sick, is given in a model kitchen equipped for teaching purposes. Models and specimens, necessary for demonstration in various subjects, are obtained from the Johns Hopkins Medical School. Applicants wishing to obtain a course of instruction enclose a letter from a clergyman notifying to good moral character and qualifica- tions for undertaking professional work, and from a physician certifying to sound health and unimpaired faculties. No candidate will be considered who is not in good physical condition. Applicants must not be under twenty-three years, nor over thirty-five, and of at least average height and physique. A preliminary examination will be held to show that they have had a good general English education, and while this is indispensable, applicants are reminded that women of superior education and cultivation will be preferred, provided they meet the requirements in other particulars. The superintendent of nurses and principal of the training school decide on their fitness to work, and have the power to dismiss them at the end of term of probation or during its course if deemed advisable. Those who pass the examination and are proved satisfactory during the term of proba- tion, are accepted as pupil nurses, and sign an agreement to remain the three years of the course and obey the rules. Course of Instruction. — The course of in- struction covers a period of three years. The first six months of study and practical work is considered a probationary period, and failure to pass the examinations and tests at the end of this time is considered almost invari- ably a sufficient cause for the termination of the pupil's connection with the school. The arrangement of work and study as outlined below is in pursuance of a definite plan to provide the pupil, before she is brought into contact with her patients, with some fundamental knowledge upon which the art of nursing depends, and without which she is unable to benefit by the practical part of her work. The subjects are Household Economics. This means a careful study of food production, manu- facture, and cookery ; the cost of food materials, fuels, and cooking apparatus; the nutritive values of foods, their use in special forms of disease, and their special preparation for in- valids ; the serving of foods and the planning of hospital dietaries. Instruction is also given in the maintenance and administration of the household, including cost and care of furnish- ings ; supplies of lighting and heating ; and the plumbing, drainage, etc., of the home and institutional laundries. Short courses are given in Hygiene and Sanitation, Anatomy and Physiology. This occupies a period of about three months with six hours' instruction weekly. Materia Medica : this includes a general outline of the properties and uses of drugs. In addition to these classes, demonstrations are held weekly in which the pupil is taught the simpler practical part of nursing work, and becomes familiar with the various appliances and utensils used in nursing, the preparation of dressings, the care of instruments and materials. Those who pass the examinations at the end of this period and give satisfactory evidence of a general fitness of disposition and temperament for the work of nursing, are placed in the wards of the hospital for further work and study. After entering the wards the pupils spend not less than eight hours daily in practical work under the immediate supervision and direction of the head nurses and assistant-superinten- dents. They spend one to two hours daily on demonstrations and lectures. During the first and second years pupils receive instruction and practical work in the medical, surgical, and gynaecological wards, and also an insight in the nursing of infectious diseases and orthopedics. At the same time they have theoretical instruction in surgery and gynaecology, and lectures on infectious diseases, this course including instruction in contagion and immunity. Massage is also taught at this time, and a full practical demon- stration in this subject covers a period of two month.s. The senior year includes obstetrics, pediatrics, nervous diseases, including the care of the in- sane, diseases of the special senses. Special instruction is also given in connection with nursing in institutions, in district, and private nursino-. The care of invalids and convales-