' Journal of Laryngology, vol. xvi., June 1901. Nov. 27, 1897, vol. ii. p. 1560. NOSE—LOCAL Cocaine is a vaso-constrictor, and produces that ischsemia so serviceable both in investigat- ing and treating diseases of the nose. Unfortu- nately, it has a depressing action on the heart, which may give rise to most untoward symptoms and inconvenience to the operator. In prescrib- ing it for the patient's own use one has to bear in mind the possibility of a vicious habit being acquired. The disturbances of sensation caused by the anaesthetic action of the drug may persist for hours, or even days, so that some patients prefer the small amount of discomfort occasioned by minor manipulations, such as the passage of an Eustachian catheter, to the after effects of the drug. The toxic symptoms when they arise may be combated with inhalation of the vapour of nitrite of amyl and stimulants. Eucaine}—What has already been said in speaking of cocaine, with reference to the strength of solution and the method of applica- tion, is applicable to the use of eucaine. Local anaesthesia is perhaps not so rapidly produced by eucaine as by cocaine, and it may be that proportionately as the drug is less toxic it is also less powerful. Upon the application of a 5 or 10 per cent solution of eucaine to the mucous membrane, hypersemia occurs as an immediate result ; this is in the majority of cases but an initial blush, rapidly passes oiT, and gives place to an ischsemia which, as seen in the nose, is generally less marked than that produced by cocaine. It is unusual to meet with excessive or unexpected haemorrhage following operations done under eucaine anaesthesia, such as is not uncommonly met with after the use of cocaine; this is no doubt accounted for by the action of eucaine upon the peripheral vessels already alluded to. Associated with the initial hyperaemia is an increased salivation. The after effects of eiicaine are less unpleasant than those produced by cocaine, and are more transient. Those who have experienced the effect of both drugs have expressed a decided preference for eucaine. Eucaine is free from the toxic potentiality of cocaine, and is, there- fore, of considerable service as an efficient sub- stitute in cases in which an idiosyncrasy for cocaine would preclude an operation. Chloretone is acetonchloroform, or trichlor tertiary butyl alcohol. It is formed when caustic potash is slowly added to equal weights of chloroform and acetone. Locally it acts like cocaine as a peripheral anaesthetic, and is said to be free from the depressing effects. It also possesses antiseptic properties, and has been found of service in preserving solutions of suprarenal gland. Sufficient time has not yet elapsed to determine its true value relatively with the other local anaesthetics. Liquid extract of suprarenal gland is perhaps ^ British Med. Journal, Jan. 16, 1897, vol. i. p. 134 ; ANAESTHETICS 75 the most powerful vaso-constrictor we possess, and on that account must be mentioned here. When applied to the mucous membranes the parts are shrunken and rendered bloodless, and this renders it specially valuable in control- ling haemorrhage and obtaining a comparatively bloodless field in nasal surgery. The ischaemia it induces gives it a special value in treatment of hay fever, as its local effect can be repeatedly obtained without the risk of entailing the vicious habit of cocaine. It is very important that the solution should be freshly prepared, and this has hitherto been an impediment to its use. The difficulty has been met in two ways: by the addition of a preservative, such as chloretone, to the aqueous extract; and by supplying it in small cylindrical glass capsules known as " hypodermules," ^ each containing 1 cubic centimetre of a standard solution sterilised in a manner which will re- tain its properties unimpaired for a lengthened period. 3. Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum Skin Affections of Vestibule . . 75 Affections of Septum Nasi ... 76 Benign Tumours of Nasal Foss^ . . 77 Malignant Growths of Nasal Foss^ . 80 Skin Affections of the Vestibule The affections of the orifices of the nose or vestibule are more properly described under the headings of the various skin affections; yet it will be opportune to mention the principal skin diseases that are here encountered, if only for the sake of a completeness in local classification. The commonest is eczema, which we find principally as the result of the constant ex- posure of the skin to irritating discharges, the most common of which is that of ordinary rhinorrhoea. This is most commonly found in young children suffering from acute or chronic rhinitis, when the resulting eczema of the vestibule may be associated with an external herpes. When due to these causes it is usually seen as a moist, inflamed, and sore surface with little or no itching. In the more chronic ail- ments of the nose it is not uncommon to find, at the anterior and posterior angles of the nostril, minute fissures apparently extending hardly to a greater depth than that of the epithelium, which nevertheless are extremely painful and obstinate in healing. Rarely do we find the chronic forms of eczema such as affect the external auditory meatus and are dependent upon constitutional rather than local causes; yet now and again we see a chronic eczema associated with what appears to be sycosis involving the hair follicles, when indeed the patient suffers from considerable swelling of the nose and extreme pain in the region of the follicles affected. The latter may also be the