(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 164 of the short tube would rest against the upper aperture of the larynx, and so interfer ■ with respiration, a long tube brought out of the mouth or through the nostrils is indicated. A long tube may be purchased, made in the same way as an oi'dinary short tube, or, according to Symonds, it may be quickly improvised in the following manner :—Take a piece of red rubber drainage tube with a thin wall and a wide bore and about eighteen inches long. Cut one end obliquely and sew it up, thus obtaining a conical end ; next cut a large eye in the tube about an inch from the extremity, or two openings may be made. Oil the interior of the tube and introducer thoroughly. The experience of surgeons concerning oeso- phageal intubation is rather conflicting. The author is of opinion that it is the best treatment, and should always be tried in cases where the tube can be used of sufficient calibre to avoid repeated blockage of its lumen; in other words, the malignant stricture must not have advanced too far, and the presence of the tube must not induce hsemorrhage and copious mucous dis- charges from the growth. (2) Methods to create an artificial mouth. (Emplmfjostomy has a very limited field. It is only possible in growths high up and very limited in extent, so that a portion of healthy oesophagus can be found at the root of the neck quite free from growth. Such cases are rare. Gastrostomy. — Much discussion has taken place concerning the question of early or late gastrostomy. The author is strongly of opinion that so long as the patient can get enough liquid food into the stomach, no operation should be performed. As an operation of expediency gastrostomy is not to be recommended : it should be reserved as an operation of necessity, i.e. to prevent starvation. Fibrous Stricture of the (EsopJiagus. — The most common caiise is the swallowing of caustic fluids and boiling water. It seems certain that syphilitic ulceration may lead to stricture. In some cases it is impossible to determine the cause. Symptoms.— In most cases there have been acute symptoms due to the agent inflicting the damage, and these have already been dealt with in the section on inflammation of the oesophagus. The chief symptom due to the fibrous stricture alone is progressive difficulty in swallowing; pain is seldom present, and, if complained of, it is usually when attempts are made to swallow solid food. Diwjnosis is made by the history of the case. Its site, or at any rate the position of the first stricture, if there be more than one, is usually ascertained by the bougie. In those rare cases where there is no clue to the causation it may be difficult to diagnose the condition from carcinoma or from muscular spasm. By a care- ful consideration of the symptoms, however, a correct diagnosis can nearly always be made. Prognosis. — Even with constant treatment the outlook is grave. The fatal end arrives sooner or later by suppuration and perforation, even if starvation is prevented. The infection of the constantly irritated tissue with tubercle is not an infrequent complication. Treatment. — Numerous methods have been described, some of which soon fell into well- merited neglect; cauterisation, internal oeso- phagotomy, electrolysis, etc., have practically disappeared as recognised procedures. With all cases one method must be tried, and that is gradual dilatation. Bougies, of which a large variety have been invented, are passed at regular intervals, in- creasing in size on each occasion. If there is some difficulty in introducing the bougie, it may be left in for some minutes or hours and then its reintroduction is quite easy. In some cases Symonds' tube worn for a few days causes a dilatation just as a catheter tied in the urethra. If a bougie cannot be passed from above into the stomach, although the patient can swallow liquids, the operation of gastrostomy is per- formed, and the patient is made to swallow a shot to which silk is attached. This silk is brought out of the gastric opening and bougies are dragged through by this means. If nothing can be got to pass by swallowing, the operation of oesophagotomy may be performed, and some- thing passed along by that route. The opening in the stomach may be closed as soon as the stricture is made permeable to a bougie. It may be possible to do this at the time when the gastrostomy is performed, so that the wound in the stomacli can be sewn up again at the same operation. Forcible and Ra2nd Dilatation. — By some surgeons these terras are looked upon as syn- onymous. Without undue violence, however, it may be possible to rapidly dilate a stricture by passing bougies of increasing size at one sitting. Special instruments have been devised to dilate a stricture forcibly, and even laminaria tents have been employed. These methods are open to several objections, and are not usually practised. If the stricture is near the cardiac end, and no bougie can be passed from above, then the stomach may be opened and the stricture rapidly dilated. Loreta uses an in- strument which sti-etches the stricture to a diameter of two inches. The wound in the stomach is then closed. G^soj^hagotomy.—This operation is performed either with a view of dilating a stricture or of establishing an artificial mouth below the level of the stricture. Gastrostomy.—'\N\\cn every other method has failed, this operation must be performed to prevent the patient starving to death. in some cases, after the stricture has been given