NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 16 case is easy. Symmetrical bilateral flaccid paresis or paralysis, with dropped feet, dropped wrist, absent knee-jerks, and gi-eat muscular hyperalgesia, is always very suggestive of peripheral neuritis, when the bladder and rectum are unaffected. The diagnosis from transverse or compression myelitis and from other transverse lesions of the cord is easy when these affections give rise to a spastic paralysis. In such cases the increased knee-jerks, ankle clonus, rigidity of the legs (or spastic gait), and the paralysis of bladder and rectum exclude peripheral neuritis. The chief difficulty is when these cord affections are in the lumbar region, or when they give rise to flaccid paralysis with absent knee-jerks. Iti such cord lesions the bladder and rectum are paralysed, and deep sacral bed-sores often develop; whilst these symptoms are absent in peripheral neuritis. Also in peripheral neuritis there is the marked muscular hyperalgesia, and often the mental symptoms already described; a girdle sensation is absent; as the affection extends to the upper part of the body the wrists are dropped before the intercostals are paralysed; and the anaesthesia is most marked in the periphery of the limbs, and gradually fades away towards the proximal part. In the cord affections mentioned muscular hyperalgesia is absent or slight; the intercostals are paralysed before the arms in the upwards extension of the disease, and the anaesthesia is often sharply limited to the distribution of definite nerve- roots. In acute anterior poliomyelitis of the adult the sudden onset of the paralysis, the absence of muscular hypersesthesia, and the absence of anaesthesia or sensory disturbances are usually sufficient to separate the affection from peri- pheral neuritis. The diagnosis from tabes dorsalis requires to be considered chiefly in the ataxic form of peripheral neuritis. In favour of true tabes dorsalis would be the Argyll-Robertson pupil, the sharp, shooting nature of the pains in the legs, the absence of true paresis or paralysis, the girdle sensations, and (if present) optic atrophy. In peripheral neuritis the pupils almost invariably react to light; there is distinct paresis with some dropping of the feet and high-steppage gait (even in the ataxic form); also the muscular hyperalgesia, the gnawing character of the pains, the absence of girdle sensations, the absence of crises, the history of alcoholic excess and the more rapid development of symptoms would point to peri- pheral neuritis. In the early stages of alcoholic neuritis, when pain is the chief symptom, the affection may be mistaken for rheumatism. In peripheral neuritis the pain is in the muscles; in articular rheumatism, in the joints. Marked muscular hyperassthesia, absent knee-jerks, numbness and tingling, dropping of the toes or feet, and the bilateral and symmetrical nature of the affection would be in favour of peripheral neuritis. The diagnosis of alcoholic neuritis from other forms of peripheral neuritis depends chiefly on the history; also indications of other poisons, or in some cases peculiarities in the sympto- matology may be of diagnostic value (see other forms of neuritis). The alcoholic beverage should be examined for arsenic when the amount taken has been small or the form chiefly beer. Pathological Anatomy. — Changes are con- stantly found in the peripheral nerves, some- times also in the muscles and central nervous system. But the changes in the central nervous system are inconstant and usually slight; those in the peripheral nerves the most advanced, consisting of a neuritis, generally of the paren- chymatous or degenerative form. For transverse section, the nerves may be hardened in Muller's fluid and stained according to Weigert's method. A simple method of examination of the peripheral nerves is by fixing and staining directly in a 1 per cent osmic acid solution, and afterwards staining with alum carmine or picro-carmine. The finest muscular branches should be carefully removed and placed directly in the osmic acid. The muscular branches of the anterior tibial or musculo-spiral nerve are suitable for examina- tion. The changes are best seen in the finest muscular and cutaneous branches; they diminish greatly in intensity in the larger branches, and may be absent in the large nerve-trunks. The parenchymatous neuritis is best marked in the nerves of the limbs (such as the branches of the anterior tibial or the musculo-spiral). The writer has found it also in the phrenic nerve when death has occurred from paralysis of the diaphragm. It has been occasionally found in the vagus nerve. In the affected nerves the myelin of the white substance of Schwann is broken up into small globular, oval, or irregular masses, and in advanced cases the axis cylinder is also broken up. The nuclei of the nerve-fibres undergo proliferation. In advanced cases, the nerve- sheath contains only proliferated nuclei and clusters of fatty globules from the degenerated myelin. In some fibres the globules of de- generated myelin are collected at intervals into spindle-shaped swellings, separated by naked axis cylinders or empty nerve-sheaths. An increase of the connective tissue of the nerve- fibres is rare. But occasionally, in addition to the parenchymatous changes just described, a broadening of the perineurium, or an increase of the interstitial fibrous tissue between the nerve-fibres, has been observed, i.e. a combina- tion of parenchymatous and interstitial neuritis. Hypersemia and swelling of the affected nerves is very rare.