163 (ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF namely, at the commencement, about the middle, and at the termination. There is a difference of opinion as to the relative frequency with which these three spots are affected, some considering that the upper end is more commonly affected than the others, and vice versa. All agree that the middle region accounts for 25 per cent of the whole. (Growths of the oesophagus occur more frequently in men than in women. They are nearly always squamous-celled epitheliomata, but glandular carcinoma, probably originating in the oesophageal glands, are sometimes met with. Extension of the growth may take place by direct continuity ; thus the lungs or heart may be invaded, and masses of cancer may form round the oesophagus at any part of its course. Secondary deposits may occur in the liver, kidneys, spleen, intestines, etc. The usual lym- phatic glands to be affected are those in the posterior mediastinum and those in the lower part of the neck, either along the carotid artery or in the posterior ti-iangle just above the clavicle. The growth may disintegrate at cer- tain spots, and finally there may be a perfora- tion into the posterior mediastinum leading to secondary septic processes. Symptoms.—The earliest symptom is some difficulty in swallowing, especially if the food is rather dry. This difficulty soon becomes more marked until only liquids can be passed through. The food remains for a minute or two and is then gulped up. If there is much ulceration, especially when septic inflammation spreads from the growth along the oesophagus, there may be reflex spasmodic contractions of the gullet, which may be set up by the slightest amount of food, solid or liquid. In the intervals of feeding, blood, and mucus, and debris may be brought up. Pain is absent at first even when the dysphagia is quite marked. After a time, however, there is definite pain on swallowing referred to the neck or between the shoulders behind. Some- times the pain is referred to the middle of the sternum or to the lower end of that bone. The distribution of this referred pain depends upon the situation of the growth in the oesophagus. Emaciation is a prominent symptom. It is partly due to the ordinary emaciation and cachexia of all cancerous disease, and partly to the deprivation of food. There are various complications that may arise. As in the case of foreign bodies, so here hsemorrhage may occur from ulceration into the big vessels. There is alteration of voice either by invasion of the larynx or trachea, or by involving the recurrent laryngeal nerves. The pleuree and lungs may be invaded by the growth, and sometimes the pericardium. Diagnosis.—As a rule this is fairly easy. Progressive difficulty in swallowing, together with definite loss of flesh and cachexia, form a fairly characteristic picture. Careful examina- tion of the heart and great vessels should be made in order to exclude the presence of an aneurysm of the aorta. From a fibrous stricture the presence of hard enlarged glands in the supraclavicular fossa and along the carotid artery serves to aid us in the diagnosis. Treatment.—The first question that naturally arises is whether we can hope for a cure of the condition by removal of the growth. This is only possible, of course, when the whole growth and any infected lymphatic glands can be freely removed. This is only feasible in carcinoma of the cervical portion, and then only when the growth is quite limited and free from adhesions to the larynx, trachea, bi'onchi, thyroid gland, etc. A few cases of successful removal have been reported, the longest of which survived thirteen months. In this case it was necessary to pass a bougie at frequent intervals in order to keep the resulting fibrous stricture sufficiently dilated, and all of them had to be fed on liquid food for the remainder of their lives. It is ob- vious that cases suitable for radical operative treatment are very rarely met with. Palliative Treatment.—Short of removal of the growth there are two methods of treatment. (1) To feed the patient by the mouth with the aid of some apparatus. (2) To establish an artificial mouth. (1) Suggestions and attempts at feeding the patient by introducing a tube through the growth and leaving it in situ have been published for many years, but this method of treatment was first thoroughly formulated by Symonds. It may be termed permanent intubation of the oesophagus. The principle is to pass a tube through the obstructions, a tube of sufficient length to project well beyond the lower limit of the growth. It has a funnel-shaped opening at the upper end which rests upon the superior margin of the constriction. Symonds describes the procedure in the following words:— "First ascertain by a large bougie the exact position of the stricture, i.e. the number of inches from the teeth ; then pass the largest conical bougie possible, and judge by this the size of the tube to be used. Fitting now the introducer (made of whalebone and enclosed by a gum-elastic sheath) mark on it the distance on the stricture, or make a knot in the silk (the cords which are attached to the upper dilated part of the tube), and insert with the head thrown back. When it has entered the stricture send the tube down slowly, till arrested by the funnel, and withdraw the introducer. . . . The silk is now tied round the ear and fixed behind by a piece of strapping." In some cases a long tube is better than a short one, e.g. in cases where ulceration has taken place into the pleural cavity, lungs, bronchi, or trachea, and in cases where much destruction of the oesophagus is going on as shown by foetor. In cases where the disease is situated so high up that the funnel-shaped end