PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM 490 Tbat substances of great complexity take part in the constant whirl is shown by the analyses of what is left after death. Five or six elements—carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitro- gen, sulphur, and phosphorus—are present, and these are linked together to form molecules of enormous size. Water is the most abundant constituent of protoplasm, amounting, as it does, to about 75 per cent. The solids, constituting the remaining 25 per cent, consist chiefly of a series of bodies closely allied to one another and called " chief sub- stances " or Proteins. In addition to these, certain inorganic salts are found in the ash when protoplasm is burned, indicating the presence of potassium and calcium along with phosphorus and sulphur. The inorganic salts, and especially their kations, appear to be of considerable importance in maintaining the activity of protoplasm, and their possible mode of action will be considered later. Small and varying quantities of fats, and of carbo- hydrates, with traces of a number of other organic substances which need not here be enumerated, are also usually present. Of these substances the proteins alone have to be considered here, since they constitute the really important part of the material. Proteins White of egg or the juice of meat may be taken as examples of such proteins dissolved in water with some salts. If the salts be separated, and the water carefully driven off at a low temperature, a pure protein is left. (A) Physical Characters.—The proteins from the residue of living matter—the Native Pro- teins, as they may be called—have a white, yellow, or brownish colour. In structure they are usually amorphous, but many have been prepared in a crystalline condition, and it is probable that all may take a crystalline form. The crystals vary in shape, being usually small and needle-like, but sometimes forming larger rhombic plates. Some proteins form apparent solutions in water, others require the presence of neutral inorganic salts, others of an acid or alkali, while some are completely insoluble without a change in their constitvition. All are insoluble in alcohol and ether. When in solution, or apparent solution, the native proteins do not dialyse through an animal membrane. They are colloids. Other colloidal bodies reacting much like the proteins have been prepared synthetically by chemists— e.g. by heating together amido - benzoic acid and phosphoric anhydride. Like other colloids proteins tend to coagulate, forming a clot just as, for instance, silicic acid may clot when carbon dioxide is passed through its solution. The native proteins are coagulated by simply heating their solution. All proteins rotate the plane of polarised light to the left. (B) Chemistry.—Proteins contain the follow- ing chemical elements: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur, in about the following percentage amounts :— c. 52 H. 7 N. i6 o. 24 It is important to remember the amounts of nitrogen and carbon, since proteins are the sole source of the former element in the food and an important source of the latter. As regards the number of atoms of these elements which go to form a single molecule, information has been obtained by studying compounds with various metals. The following probable formula of the molecule of the chief protein of the white of egg is given simply to show how complex these substances are: The constitution of the protein molecule has been investigated first by studying the products of the decomposition of the molecule by various agents, and second, by attempting to build up the molecule by the synthesis of the products of disintegration. 1. Products of Decomposition.—The native proteins in solution tend to break down into a series of simpler bodies, and this decomposition is greatly hastened by the action of acids or alkalies or of certain enzymes. A series of more and more simple molecules are thus pro- duced which, as they decrease in complexity, give solutions which are less and less colloidal and less and less easily precipitated by alcohol or by neutral salts, till, finally, products are yielded which no longer give the protein tests, which are freely soluble in alcohol, and which have the characteristics of amino acids. Along with these, certain by-products are also given off. The different stages of the disintegration of the native protein molecule may be arranged as follows:— Native Proteins. Proteoses. Peptones. Polypeptides. Dipepticles. Amino Acids (mono-and di-)- O •a <u S -» ■'"So -0. = ^ gP3