ADENOID GROWTHS 97 NOSE—POSTNASAL beforehand, allowing some solution of l-in-40 carbolic acid to instil into the tympanum through the external auditory meatus for half an hour before the operation; but when there is follicular disease of the tonsils it is useless to attempt disinfection. At the same time, it must be admitted that there is probably considerable risk after these and all operations on the throat and nose of the patient's contracting any infectious disease, the organisms of which are in the atmosphere in- haled by the patient. Scarlet fever appears to be readily contracted, the rash appearing twenty-four hours after the operation. This tallies with the observation made by Paget ^ as regards the rapidity of development of scarlet fever after general operations. Influenza ap- pears to be quickly picked up after operations on throat or nose, and doubtless other con- tagious diseases would be as easily caught. Therefore I think that the greatest care should be taken to protect the patient from such oossibilities; and I now make it a rule when aatients come from the country for operation, :o refuse to do it in lodgings or hotel, seeing ;hat one can never be sure who may have occupied the rooms previously; and I insist on lis coming into a nursing home of the sanitary jonditions of which one is assured. As in all surgical procedures, the safety of any operation iepends directly upon the care with which the 'isks can be obviated; and I think this one of ivoiding all possible sources of infection of ;onsiderable importance. And this conclusion s based not upon theoretical considerations, but ipon definite experiences. But while it is, of course, impossible to secure isepsis at the time of the operation, or to imploy antiseptics to such extent as to justify ;he belief that they would offer any sort of ;afeguard, every effort must be made to iecure perfect cleanliness of hands, instruments, ind sponges. The latter should be kept ilways soaking in l-in-20 carbolic lotion, and ihould be taken out of the fluid only im- nediately before operation. Sufficient number )f them should be available to obviate the lecessity of washing them during the operation, ^'or my own part I seldom use more than two )r three, frequently none at all, though occa- lionally the hsemorrhage may be so profuse that I dozen or more may be needed. The instru- nents should be soaked in the same carbolic lolution for fifteen minutes before the operation, )articular care being taken with the tonsillotomes o secure soap and water cleanliness beforehand, eeing that their complication of parts may ■ender them easy sources of infection. Little or no subsequent treatment is necessary, )eyond, if the breath be foetid, washing the interior nares with a weak boric lotion. Heal- ng is usually completed in about ten days, and 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays (1875, p. 349 et seq.). VOL. VII until this is ensured, the use of the Politzer bag is contraindicated. 8. Nasal Neuroses Anosmia ....... 97 Hyperosmia, etc. ..... 98 Neuroses of Common Sensations and Vasomotor Neuroses . . .98 The nervous supply to the nasal passages subserves several important functions, chiefly those of olfaction, common sensation, and blood- supply ; and inasmuch as many physiological reflex phenomena depend on the integrity of this richly innervated territory, it follows that nasal neuroses are both frequent in occurrence and sometimes widespread in origin and effect. Neuroses of Olfaction Anosmia. — For the normal perception of odours it is essential (1) that the odoriferous particles should be able to reach the small area of the nasal mucosa containing the olfactory cells occupying the roof of the olfactory fissure and adjacent portions of the outer wall of the septum; (2) that the mucous membrane should be in a moist and normal state ; (3) and that the olfactory nerve tract within the cranium be in a normal receptive condition. Hence anosmia may arise (1) from mechanical obstruc- tion to nasal respiration, such as the presence of polypi or other new formations, collections of inspissated mucus, etc.; or (2) from atrophic or other morbid conditions of the olfactory mucous membrane; or (3) from pathological conditions in the region of the olfactory bulb, frontal lobes of the cerebi'um, or the cortical centres for olfaction. It is convenient for clinical purposes to divide cases of anosmia into two classes, as suggested by Zwaardemaker and Schmidt, viz. : Respira- tory anosmia, including those cases due to mechanical causes; and Essential anosmia, com- prising those cases in which the olfactory nerve tract is the seat of lesion. Instances of respiratory anosmia are those due to inflamma tory changes, as in acute rhinitis, or to nasal obstruction from other causes, e.g. mucous polypi or other new formation, deflected septum, collections of secretion, rhinopharyngeal growths, blocking the choanse narium; while of the second group, essential anosmia, we may recall those cases due to the tearing through of the olfactory filaments in the cribriform plate as the result of a blow or jar (Ogle, Legg), neuritis of the olfactory nerves due to influenza, syphilis, etc.; specific irritation, as in those cases ascribed to tobacco-smoke (Parker), to lead (Grant), or to malarial poisoning (Raynaud) ; of the many intracranial causes it is well to remember that congenital absence or other anomalies of the olfactory lobes or nerve fila- ments have been found, and that anosmia has 7