368 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF Fistula Parotid fistulse occur in connection with the gland or the duct. They may follow a wound in the parotid region, the opening of a parotid abscess, tuberculous, or more rarely syphilitic ulceration, inflammation due to the presence of a calculus or suppiii-atiou connected with necrosis of the jaw. The orifice of the fistula is generally very small, and the skin around it is healthy. A clear alkaline fluid trickles from it, the quantity increasing during mastication. It is said that this fluid can be distinguished from the fluid flowing from a lymphatic fistula by the addition of a few drops of perchloride of iron, when a blood-red colour is apparent in the case of saliva, owing to the presence of sulphocyanide of potassium. Parotid fistulse, like fistulse of other parts of the alimentary tract, usually close spontaneously, unless there is some obstruction in Stensen's duct. The treatment varies according to the position of the fistula. When the opening is sitiiated over the gland, and there is no stricture of the duct, the edges may be refreshed and united by a silkworm-gut suture. But when the parotid duct is narrowed or occluded more extensive operations are required. The diict may be dilated by passing a cat-gut bougie from the mouth, the distal portion of the canal may be laid open inside the cheek, or an attempt may be made to form a new duct. Parotitis or Parotiditis.—Inflam- mation of the parotid gland {q.v.). Parovarium.—The organ of Rosen- miiller, lying in the broad ligament between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. See Generation, Female Organs of {Parovarium); Broad Liga- ments, Diseases op {Tumours) ; Fallopian Tubes {Tumours, etc.) ; Fluids, Examination OF Pathological {Parovaria7i Cysts); Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumours, Diagnosis). Paroxysmal.—Occurring in paroxysms or subject to periodic exacerbations or attacks ; e.g. paroxysmal cough {see Cough, Periodical), paroxysmal hoematuria {see Hematuria, Parox- ysmal), paroxysmal hcemoglobinuria {see Hemo- globinuria, Paroxysmal ; Raynaud's Disease, Complications), paroxysmal sneezing {see Nose, Nasal Neuroses, Paroxysmal Sneezing), and paroxysmal tachycardia {see Heart, Neuroses OF, Tachycardia). Parrisll'S Food.—A tonic syrup con- taining iron, lime, phosphates, etc., given in doses of ^ to 2 fl. dr., and corresponding roughly to the Syrupus Ferri Phosphatis Com- positus of the B.P. Conference. See Ferrum. Parrot's Disease.—Asyphiliticpseudo- paralysis of the limbs seen in new-born infants, and due to separation of the epiphysis of the long bones from the diaphysis ; the name Parrot's Atrophy is given to primary infantile atrophy or athrepsia. See Syphilis {Hereditary, in Children) ; Atrophy, Infantile. Parrot's IVodes.—Periostitic swellings on the bones of the cranium, occurring in syphi- litic infants and giving rise to the natiform skull. See Syphilis {Hereditary, in Children). Parrot's Sig^n.—Dilatation of the pupil (in cases of meningitis) when the skin is pinched. Parrot's Ulcer.—The patches of para- sitic stomatitis or thrush. See Stomatitis, Parasitic. Parry's Disease. — Exophthalmic goitre or Grave's disease. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre). Pars.—A part, as in anatomical nomen- clature in such terms as pars memhranacea septi, pars ciliaris retince {see Iris and Ciliary Bodies, Anatomy), pars intermedia, etc. Parthenogenesis.—The development of an organism from an ovum which has not been impregnated (Gr. vapBivo^, a virgin, yei/eo-ig, birth); the origin of dermoid tumours of the ovary has been explained by this hypothesis. See Ovaries, Diseases of {Dermoid Cysts). Partridge's Hernia.—Hernia, of the femoral type, occurring external to the femoral vessels. Parturient. — In labour, or associated with labour (parturition); e.g. the parturient canal, consisting of the vulva, vagina, cervix, and lower uterine segment. See Labour, Physi- ology OF {Factors, Passages); Labour, Diagnosis AND Mechanism ; Labour, Management of ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Passages); etc. Parturition. See Labour atid its sec- tio7is and cross-references. See also Midwifery and Obstetrics and cross-references; Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor ; Pregnancy ; Puerperium. Partus.—Labour or childbirth, as in such terms as partus difficilis (difficult labour or dystocia), partus proecipitatus (rapid or pre- cipitate labour), and partus siccus (dry labour). Passage. — A canal or channel {e.g. urethra, rectum, etc.), or the introduction of an instrument (bougie, sound, etc.) into such a canal or channel. Passenger. — The term applied to the products of conception (foetus, placenta, etc.) during their passage through the genital tract in labour. See Labour, Physiology ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism.