PARALYSIS 296 all the muscles below the knee are paralysed, and one in which only one group is affected. In the former case there is simply flaccidity without deformity, while in the latter there is well-marked talipes equinus, or talipes calcaneus, according to which group of muscles is paralysed. It is the occurrence of this form of deformity that passive movement and massage will do most to remedy. In the later stages of the disease the organic changes which take place in the muscles, together with the other factors above mentioned, and the constant erroneous position of the limb, have most to do with the production of the deformities that occur. The lateral curvature of the spine may in the same way during the earlier stages of the disease be due to the unopposed action of the erector spinse, while in the later cases it is more commonly produced by the tilting of the pelvis in order to compensate for the shortened leg on the aflfected side. Pathological Anatomy. — As in the case of the clinical symptoms, so with the pathological anatomy, three stages can be recognised as a matter of convenience. If an opportunity arises for an examination during the acute stage nothing abnormal can be seen on the surface of the cord or its membranes ; on section, however, the grey matter of the anterior horns appears of a deep red colour and softened, and it may be so engorged as to appear as if hsemorrhage had taken place into the grey matter. The focus of destruction is generally most acute at one spot, commonly situated in the lumbar region, and from this point the congestion ex- tends for a variable distance, only the most acute part of the process being visible to the naked eye, although when examined microscopi- cally it is seen that the process has a far wider distribution, and that the vessels of the anterior horns of the affected parts are engorged with blood and surrounded by a large number of inflammatory exudation cells. At other points minute extravasations of blood occur. In the regions most affected few if any nerve-cells are to be seen, while at other points where the process has been less severe, swollen and altered nerve-cells are present. There is, in fact, an inflammatory condition of that part of the grey matter of the anterior horns which is supplied by the branches of the artery passing down in the anterior fissure of the cord. In the second stage, after the acute inflam- matory condition has subsided, the grey matter of the anterior horns has a translucent appear- ance, and it is often so soft that on section after the cord has been hardened, a depression occurs in the situation of the anterior horn, giving rise to the appearance of a small cavity. If this condition is examined under the microscope it is found that the hyaline material is composed of very fine fibrils, in which there are numerous newly-formed vessels. In the whole of the softened area there are abundant fat granules, and these are especially numerous in the perivascular lymphatics, so that all the larger vessels are lined out by the presence of these fat globules. In the part most affected no trace either of nerve-cell, nor of any of the fine medullated fibres, which are normally present, can be seen, although in parts less affected both normal cells and fibres are present. Although the process is so strictly limited to the immediate region of the anterior horn, yet numerous degenerate fibres can be found scattered throughout the antero-lateral tracts of the cord, and also to a lesser extent in the posterior columns; these fibres are probably endogenous in origin. Occasionally, also, when there has been damage in the region of Clarke's column, in the lower dorsal region, degenerate fibres are found in the direct cerebellar tracts. Degeneration can also be shown to be present in the anterior roots. In the spinal cord from a case of several years' standing it is seen that the anterior horn of the affected side is reduced in size, and also that the lateral columns are smaller than the corresponding columns of the opposite side. Under the microscope it is seen that the vessels of the affected area are thickened, there is a complete absence of nerve-cells in the anterior horns, and the whole anterior horn is filled up with connective tissue. In other parts where the process has been less acute a few normal ganglion cells may remain together with others that are atrophied and shrunken. Many of the fine medullated fibres which usually form part of the anterior horn have been destroyed, and the contrast in this respect between the posterior and anterior horns, or between the two anterior horns, in those cases in which the condition is unilateral is striking. The anterior roots are atrophied. The peripheral nerves during the acute stage show some degeneration, which affects for the most part the smaller medullated fibres ; in the later stage of the disease these fibres undergo atrophy, and all that is to be noticed about the nerve is that it is somewhat smaller than normal, with possibly some increase of the connective tissue between the fibres. It is very remarkable to notice the number of normal medullated fibres which supply a completely atrophied muscle ; these fibres have been shown to arise from the posterior roots, and to supply the muscle-spindles and the musculo-tendon organs within the muscle. Muscles. — The muscles that are affected undergo atrophy, the individual muscle fibres gradually become smaller and smaller, tlie transverse striation is retained even when they are atrophied to an extreme degree. Fatty degeneration of the muscle fibre does not usually occur, although the final condition of the muscle may be such that it is composed