PAKALYSIS 272 tion to the tactual impairment. Even in these cases, however, it is the rule for slight tactual alteration to co-exist with and over the same area as the analgesia. Trophic and vaso-motor disturbances are not conspiciious, though frequently branny desqua- mation, thinning of the skin, depilation, and slight vaso-motor palsy may be present. When the lesion is situated above the thoracic cord and the vaso- and viscero-motor paths are inteiTupted, abdominal distension and great lowering of the blood pressure may result and are of the gravest importance. The typical condition of the sphincters in spastic paraplegia is one of reflex incontinence, but this condition is by no means invariable. Retention, with overflow, is not uncommon, and in a few late cases complete incontinence with patulous sphincters may occur, though the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord is quite intact. Sexual power is lost pari passu with penile sensibility. Reflex Action.—Superficial reflex action is increased below the lesion in partial lesions of the spinal cord and diminished in total trans- verse lesions. It is lost in the area actually supplied by that part of the spinal cord involved in the lesion. Whenever the pyramidal tract is damaged the reflex obtained from the sole of the corre- sponding foot is altered, the response consisting of extension of the toes, especially of the great toe. The normal response consists of flexion of the toes, least marked in the great toe. This phenomenon is one of the most important signs in the diff'erential diagnosis of lesions of the pyramidal tract. It is absolutely essential, however, to exclude voluntary movement and irregular reflex movement before a reflex re- sponse from the sole of the foot is finally determined to be of the extensor type, and, except in the hands of a practised observer, this is not always a simple matter. Tendon Reflexes.—As has been pointed out above, the tendon reflexes are increased below the lesion except where the lesion of the spinal cord is total at a given level. The tendon reflexes are lost in the area supplied by that part of the spinal cord actually involved in the lesion. The associated phenomenon of clonus may be obtained in any mviscle of the paraplegic region if suitable tension and mechanical stimiilus be applied. General clonus of all the muscles, the so-called epileptoid spasm, is readily obtainable in most of the severe cases by jarring the whole limb. It may be set up by a reflex spasm, and this has been called spontaneous clonus. Diagnosis.—(The diagnosis of paraplegia of cerebral origin will be found under the headings Double Hemiplegia, Diplegia, Cerebral Tumour, Pontine Lesions, etc.) In spastic paraplegia of spinal origin it must be first determined whether the lesion is local, diffuse, or systemic. The presence of signs and symptoms of segmental distribution sharply defined, such as girdle sensation, root pains, sharp lines of anaesthesia, and abrupt delimitation of muscular paralysis, characterise local lesions. Local signs in several widely-separated regions, such, for instance, as this combination which occurred in a case of disseminate sclerosis—slight spastic paraplegia of the legs, right trigeminal anaesthesia and paralysis, left third nerve paralysis, nystag- mus, and optic atrophy—suggest diff"use or multiple lesions. The absence of all local signs for months or years allows a diagnosis of systemic degeneration. The diagnosis is, more- over, in all cases aided by the clinical history. If a local lesion be present, (1) the situation, (2) the segmental level, and (3) the probable pathological nature of it must be determined. (1) Situation.—The lesion may be situated in the substance of the cord, in connection with the meninges, or in connection with the vertebrae. The diagnostic points are here—the occurrence of pain, the implication of nerve roots, and the presence of local signs of vertebral disease. In intramedullary lesions pain is never a conspicuous symptom (the fixed pain of syringo- myelia being excluded). Severe pains shooting along the nerve-root distributions, not caused by movement, though perhaps increased thereby, are characteristic of lesions implicating the meninges, and such pains usually precede the appearance of paraplegia for a short time. Local muscular atrophy of peculiar distribution, from implication of the anterior roots, also frequently occurs. Local signs of disease of the bone of the vertebral column, deformity, tenderness, pain on movement and on jarring the spine, and the presence of abscess, aneurysm, or cancer, suggest a lesion of the spinal column Girdle sensations may occur with each situa- tion of the disease, but are more common in intramedullary disease. Determination of the Level of the Lesion.—The upper limit of anaesthesia upon the trunk and limbs serves as an almost infallible guide to segmental location. Sensation must be tested in perpendicular lines upon the trunk, and both perpendicular and transverse lines upon the limbs; the slightest change noticed by the patient in passing from an area where sensation is perfect to where it is imperfect must be taken as this upper limit. No part of the body should escape at least rough testing, and tactual, pain- ful, and thermal stimuli should be applied. It is not clear whether the upper limits of anaes- thesia found in local disease of the spinal cord correspond with the limits of segmental sensory supply or nerve-root sensory supply, but this doubt does not aff"ect their localising value. (See Fig., p. 280.)