285 PARALYSIS Treatment.—See Spinal Caries, Spinal Tumour, Spina Bifida, Acute Myelitis, etc. Subacute Combined Degeneration of the Cord.—Definition.—Under this title a disease of the spinal cord has been described in which tracts of different function are concomitantly affected, and in which a definite train of symp- toms occur which render the diagnosis of the disease during life a comparatively easy matter. The word subacute should distinguish this affection from others in which tracts of different function are concomitantly affected, since they are all more chronic in their course. Etiology.—The age at which the disease most commonly occurs is during the fourth and fifth decades of life, although not a few cases have been reported both in older and younger people. Women appear rather more liable to the affection that men, although the difference of incidence in the two sexes is not marked. Heredity seems to play no part in the etiology of the disease, and as a rule the patients have been in good health until its onset. The affection has followed on acute infec- tions, such as influenza, and it has also occurred after prolonged diarrhoea and long-continued suppuration. Syphilis can almost be excluded as an etio- logical factor, although it has been present in a few cases, and the same may be said of alcohol. Ansemia has been supposed to cause the disease, but on this question very different views have been expressed. There is no doubt that ansemia is one of the most common features late in the course of the affection, but it is by no means always present during the earlier stages, although in some cases it has been known to precede the onset of spinal symptoms by several years. The ascertained facts make it probable that the spinal cord changes and the ansemia are due to a common cause, rather than that the spinal cord changes are due to the ansemia. The blood does not, in the majority of cases, show the changes which occur in perniciovis ansemia, although in certain cases (estimated by Dana at 10 per cent) such a condition is un- doubtedly present. Onset and Course.—The onset of the disease is usually slow and insidious, but occasionally the symptoms may come on rapidly and may be ushered in by headache, vomiting, and pyrexia. The disease may with advantage be described as having three stages, but it must not be supposed that all cases conform in every detail to the following description :—The first stage is that of slight spastic paraplegia, with ataxia and marked subjective sensations in the lower limbs; the second stage is that of severe spastic paraplegia, with marked ansesthesia in the legs and trunk; and the third stage is one of complete flaccid paralysis of the lower limbs, with loss of all forms of sensation up to a varying level on the trunk. The duration of the above stages is subject to considerable variation; the first is usually long, lasting some fifteen months or more, but, exceptionally, it may be of quite short duration, viz., less than two months. The second also varies greatly in duration ; in some it lasts only a month, and in others it is prolonged over many mouths. The third is, as a rule, short, lasting only a few weeks, although in a few cases recorded it has lasted many months. It will be obvious from the above statement that no exact time limit can be fixed for the disease, although it usually runs its course in about two years. Symptoms.—During the first stage of the affection the earliest manifestations are sub- jective sensations of numbness and tingling in the toes and in the extremities of the fingers ; following on these sensory symptoms slight spasticity and ataxia develop, the legs feel stiff and cold, and there is some dragging of the toes. Girdle sensation and lightning pains may be complained of, and there may be considerable difficulty in walking in the dark and in standing with the eyes closed. There may be a little pain in passing water, but, as a rule, at this stage there is no incontinence of urine. On examination of the patient no ansesthesia, analgesia, or hypersesthesia can be determined; some loss of the sense of position may, however, be present, the gait is slightly spastic, and there is a tendency to stand with the legs wide apart so as to secure a wide base, and when the feet are placed close together and the eyes closed marked unsteadiness results. The act of attempting to pick up a pin is performed in a clumsy manner, and on attempt- ing to touch the tip of the nose with the first finger, the eyes being closed, lack of co-ordina- tion and intention tremor become evident. There is slight rigidity of the lower extremities, the knee-jerks are increased, ankle clonus may be present, and the plantar reflex gives the extensor response (Babinski's sign). The superficial reflexes are present and the myotatic irritability of the muscles is increased. The pupils react well to light and on accommo- dation. The transition from the first to the second stage of the disease is often rapid, and is marked by the patient losing the power to stand in the course of a few hours or days; the inability being due rather to the want of co-ordination in the muscles of the legs than to actual loss of power, for while lying in bed the patient is often able to move the legs with considerable power. Definite ansesthesia now becomes marked, commencing at first over the feet and lower portions of the legs, and gradually extending up the limbs, while sensation in the tips of the fingers also becomes affected. At this stage the impairment of sensation does not follow