466 PHARYNX—ACUTE PHARYNGITIS a foreign body, scalds, and inhalation of irritating vapours. Among important predisposing causes must be included chronic nasal obstruction, the rheumatic and gouty diathesis, and sedentary occupations, especially when these are carried on in insanitary surroundings. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology. — The mucous membrane of the pharynx and sur- rounding parts are at first swollen and hypertemic, and the secretion is scanty and viscid. The degree of hyperfemia varies from a bright red in the idiopathic cases to the livid red met with in scarlet fever or erysipelas of the pharynx. The swelling of the inflamed tissues may be slight, or so well marked that the uvula becomes enlarged to many times its natural size. The tonsils are usually inflamed, and may be punctated with the yellowish accumulations characteristic of lacunar tonsillitis. The inflammation generally tends to spread to the larynx, less commonly to the naso- pharynx and nasal cavities. Acute pharyngitis may be secondary to acute rhinitis, resulting from simple extension of the catarrh by means of the naso-pharyngeal mucous membrane. Symptoms.—The milder cases rarely come under medical treatment. In those of greater severity the symptoms are both general and local. Among the former are malaise, feelings of chilliness, and general aching of the limbs and muscles. The temperature may be raised to 100° or 101°, the tongue furred, and bowels constipated. Locally, the throat feels hot, dry, and sore, and there is a frequent desire to swallow. If the uvula be much swollen, an irritating cough, and the feeling as if a foreign body was present in the throat, may be complained of. On in- spection, the pharynx, fauces, tonsils, and uvula are seen to be red and swollen, and covered by a viscid secretion, which becomes freer some twelve hours or so after the commencement of the inflammation. If the latter spreads to the larynx and trachea, there will be some hoarseness, and possibly a troublesome cough. A few days later a muco-purulent expectoration may indicate the extension of the catarrh to the larger bronchial tubes. When the naso-pharynx is afffected there will be greatly increased secretion, possibly slight deafness, earache, or tinnitus, from involvement of the Eustachian tubes. Symptoms of nasal catarrh {vide "Acute Rhinitis") will charac- terise the spread of inflammation to the nasal cavities. In certain of the acute exanthemata the constitutional symptoms soon overshadow the throat lesions ; h\it the latter are of importance, because they may be among the earliest mani- festations of the graver malady. Moreover, in scarlet fever the pharyngeal inflammation may form one of the most serious complications of the disease. In acute traumatic pharyngitis the inflam- mation is at first mainly limited to the site of injury. From thence, however, it may rapidly spread, especially if septic organisms gain access to the tissues through a broken surface. The septic varieties of acute pharyngitis will, on account of their importance, be dealt with separately. Prognosis.—In simple cases this is nearly always good; but a guarded prognosis should always be given in the case of children, because pharyngeal inflammation is often an early symptom of one of the acute exanthemata. In adults, the possibility of the inflammation being an early syphilitic manifestation should always be borne in mind. Treatment.—As a general rule it is well to give a saline aperient during the early stages of an attack. When this is severe the patient should remain indoors, in a well-ventilated room, at a temperature of about 65°. The diet should be light, while iced milk, milk and soda- water, lemonade, barley-water, etc., may be freely drunk. Sucking pellets of ice will often relieve local discomfort. Medicinally, 10 grains of " Dover's " powder, followed by a hot drink, is useful at the com- mencement of an attack, especially when the latter is associated with symptoms of acute nasal catarrh. If rheumatic symptoms be present, salicylate of soda may be combined with a diaphoretic mixture, e.g. R sod. salicyl. gr. x, liq. ammon. acetat. 3iij, spir. setheris nitros rrixx, aq. camph. ad sj. Sig. : to be taken every four hours until the pains are relieved. In this con- nection the guaiacum lozenges of the Throat Hospital Pharmacopoeia are useful. In cases where a gouty element is present free purgation, a light, unstimulating diet, followed by internal administration of alkalies and colchicum, will be appropriate treatment. When the inflammation spreads to the larynx and trachea the following inhalation will give relief to the cough and local discomfort: R 01. eucalyp., ol. pini sylvest. ad 3j, mag. carb. lev. 3j, aq. camph. concentr. §j, aq. ad giv. Sig. : The vapour arising from half a pint of water at 150° F., to which sss of the above mixture has been added, to be inhaled every two hours. This may be accompanied by hot fomenta- tions over the upper part of the windpipe and chest. The sucking of pastilles containing borax, chlorate of potash, and cocaine will assist in removing the viscid mucus from the pharynx, and at the same time relieve some of the local discomfort. CEdema of the uvula, if slight, requires no special treatment; when it is ex-