PALATE 234 True mandibular cleft may involve the soft parts only, or extend to the bones. Occasionally the defect may be associated with a dermoid ; in some cases the tongue has been found to be cleft, in others the face. Treatment.—Pare the edges and close the cleft. Facial Cleft is an exceedingly rare malforma- tion, due to non-closure of the fissure between nasal and maxillary processes. The cleft, which begins in the upper lip, usually at about the same place as that met with in ordinary hare-lip, passes upwards and outwards external to the ala nasi towards the centre of the lower lid or to the inner canthus ; sometimes it extends across the orbit into the temporal region. The deformity varies in extent. As a rule, the soft parts alone are involved. When the bones are implicated, the deficiency in the alveolus is situated, as in hare-lip, between the endognathion and mesognathion; there may also be a large opening into the antrum. The cleft may be unilateral or bilateral. It may be partially or entirely represented by a thin cicatrix. Macrostoma, mandibular cleft, and coloboma of the iris or the choroid, have been found as associated conditions. Treatment.—Closure of the cleft by suitable plastic operations. Median Hare-Lip.—Two varieties of these rare conditions are described. 1. There is a wide median gap in the upper lip, due to the entire absence of its central portions, with, in addition, absence of the inter- maxillary bones and of the nasal septvmi. The nose is much flattened, and there may or may not be a cleft in the palate. Non-developmentol the internal nasal (globular) processes accounts for the deformity. 2. In a second variety a median cleft, of varying extent, is present in the upper lip, due to non-union of the globular processes. There may be no other deformity, but in some instances the intermaxilke have been found to be separate, the palate cleft, the anterior nares separate, and the nose flat. Treatment.—Operative methods on the prin- ciples of those employed for ordinary hare-lip and cleft palate. Lateral Hare-Lip presents many varieties. It may be unilateral or bilateral. Its extent may vary from a slight notch at the margin of the lip, or it may pass into the nostril—simple hare-lip. The alveolar margin may be involved —alveolar hare-lip. Or a cleft of the palate may be associated with the labial deformity— complicated hare-lip. Unilateral Hare-Lip. — The left side is usually affected. The cleft is A-shaped, with rounded margins ; the red border passes upwards for a varying extent ; in some cases skin forms the apex of the cleft. The angle at the nose may be acute or obtuse, the two sides of the fissure equal in length and inclination; fre- quently they are unequal. In consequence of the continuity of the orbi- cularis being interrupted by the fissure, and of the contraction of the muscles at the angle of the mouth, the deformity becomes aggravated with age, and best marked when the child cries. This occurs notwithstanding the fact that the lip is frequently bound down to the alveolus by reflections of mucous membrane. The frsenum is frequently long. The nostril is often flattened, even in cases where the cleft does not extend into the nose. When the fissure passes into the anterior nares, the flattening is more extensive, and it becomes extreme where the posterior wall and floor of the anterior nares are deficient. Alveolar Hare-Lip. — The bone may be partially or completely cleft, and the fissure may extend backwards to the palate. The floor of the nostril is not always implicated. According to Albrecht, whose views meet with most acceptance, the site of the alveolar cleft is between the endo- and meso-gnathion. Kblliker maintains the cleft to be mesognathic, i.e. be- tween the intermaxillary bone and the maxilla. The edges of the alveolar cleft may be on the same level; frequently they are unequal. If a complete cleft palate be present, the fissure extends backwaixls and inwards to the anterior palatine canal, and thence backwai-ds to the uvula. Double Hare-Lip.—When simple, the two fissures are often unequal in extent; thus the nostril may be involved on one side and not on the other. The outer segments of the cleft have the same characters as those met with in cases of unilateral cleft. The central segment (prolabium) is generally smaller than normal, and frequently attached to the bone beneath (os incisivum), which usually protrudes beyond it. There may be a single or double alveolar cleft. In cases of double alveolar cleft, the os incisivum, formed by the united endognathion (containing in the young child the rudiments of two pairs, temporary and permanent in- cisions), may remain in its normal position ; usually it is pushed forward and rotated, so that the alveolar margin projects in front. Cleft palate is present, and the total cleft is A-shaped. In aggravated cases the os incisivvmi, together with the adherent pi'olabium and shortened columna, supported by the vomer and nasal septum, form a proboscis-like appendage to the end of the nose. The Effects of Hare-Lip. — When the lip alone is involved, and only to a slight extent, the general health does not suffer, and the infant can take food in the natural manner. In the severer forms the patients are frequently