PALATE 225 sharp and narrow-bladed, also probe-pointed; scissors, straight and curved; long, toothed forceps; periosteum elevators, straight and curved ; dissecting forceps; sponge-holders, or what in many respects are better—Kocher's artery forceps, which securely grasp the sponges ; cleft palate needles of various curves—those recommended by Rose are very satisfactory; silver wire, soft, pliable, and of moderate thick- ness, in lengths of six to eight inches ; silk- worm-gut, horse-hair, and sterile silk. For stopping troublesome bleeding, pads of sterile gauze, ice, Horsley's wax, adrenalise chloride solution. The AncBsthetic.—Chloroform is the most suit- able, and if possible it ought to be administered by a skilled anjesthetist. Efficient administra- tion of the anaesthetic is an important part of the operation. The patient should be well under before the operation is begun, and not allowed to come out until it is completed, lest vomiting should occur. The chief assistant attends to the tongnie and keeps the pharynx free from blood. Sponging ought to be done rapidly but lightly, and care taken not to bruise the tissues. A useful adjuvant is the painting of the palate and pharynx with a 2 per cent solution of cocaine. Position of the Patient.—The chest should be raised, and the head should be thrown back and hang over the end of the table. The surgeon sits or stands at the patient's head. Good light is essential. Extent of the Operation.—The whole cleft ought to be closed at one operation, if possible. In some cases this cannot be done. The fissure in the hard palate is then dealt with first, and that in the soft subsequently closed, or, if that be impossible, an artificial velum may have to be fitted. The Operation. — The operation described below is generally known as Langenbeck's. Avery, of Charing Cross Hospital, was the first in this country to completely close the cleft in the hard palate. Mr. Annandale, to whom the writer is indebted for many valuable hints in the treatment of hare-lip and cleft palate during the period he has been associated with him in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, performed, in 1864, the first successful operation in Scotland on the hard palate. The operation for closure of the hard and soft palate consists usually of the following steps :— (1) Paring the edges of the cleft. (2) Detachment of muco-periosteal flaps. (3) Introduction of sutures. (4) Relief of tension. The plan, practised by Rose, of detaching the flap before the edges are pared has much to recommend it. (1) Paring the Edges of the Cleft.—If the VOL. VII I'la. S.—Paring the edges of the cleft. (After Cheyne and Burghard.) vomer be attached to one side of the cleft, the junction of the nasal and buccal mucous membrane should be divided. The tip of the cleft uvula is grasped by a pair of long, toothed forceps and pulled down- wards and inwards so as to render the palate tense. The edge of the cleft is then pared from the apex to the portion of the uvula grasped by the forceps. The paring may be done from be- fore backwards, ^ or from behind forwards. Each side should be pared in one piece, and the apex of the cleft detached last; effectual paring is thus ensured. Too much tissue must not be removed, and the edges should not be bevelled. (2) Detachment of the Muco-periosteal Flaps. —The bleeding after paring of the flaps is usually slight. An incision is then made with a sharp and rather stout knife, held per- pendicular to the mucous surface. It begins on a level with, and just internal to, the last molar tooth, aud is carried forward parallel, and not more than half an inch internal to, the alveolar border until it reaches the level of the lateral incisor tooth, if the cleft be complete, or, a little beyond the apex of the cleft if it be partial. The knife should divide the periosteum and pass down to the bone. The incision, which is planned so as to pass external to the posterior palatine artery and to avoid the anterior palatine anteriorly, should be made close to the teeth. The former vessel can sometimes be felt pulsating, and avoided. The muco-periosteal flap is now detached by raspatories of various curves, attention being paid to the following details. The points of the raspatories must be kept close to the bone in order to avoid working in the substance of or perforating the flap, which should be steadied by keeping the forefinger of the left hand on its buccal surface. The separation should extend inwards until the point of the raspatory can be protruded along the entire length of the cleft, forwards beyond the apex of the fissure, if it be partial, and just short of the anterior palatine canal if the fissure is complete, and backwards along the posterior border of the hard palate. Bleeding is usually pretty free when the incision is made, especially if the posterior palatine artery be injured, but can be arrested 15