21 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS affected, whilst the tibiahs anticus is spared. In rare cases the psoas, ihacus, and quadriceps extensor have been affected. Sensation is usually normal—pain, tender- ness, and ansesthesia being usually absent; in the rare cases in which these symptoms have been recorded they have been very slight. A fine tremor, increased by movements, is occasionally present in the hands. In rare cases paresis of the adductor and abductor muscles of the vocal cords has been detected. Optic neuritis occasionally develops; it may be due to associated granular kidney, or it may form one of the changes in albuminuric retinitis; but in other cases the kidneys are unaffected. When optic neuritis is found the lead poisoning is usually acute ; it is present when cerebral symptoms occur. Post-neuritic optic atrophy and amblyopia without ophthalmoscopic changes have been recorded in a few cases. Cerebral symptoms are occasionally met with, such as apoplexy (due to hsemorrhage or soften- ing), epileptic convulsions, and hysterical symp- toms. A rare cerebral complication is "lead encephalopathy," which almost invariably ter- minates fatally. In this affection the patient suffers from convulsions; delirium occurs, and coma finally develops. The temperature is raised to 100 or 101, and double optic neuritis is present. In females this serious complication is often preceded by hysterical symptoms. In rare cases mental disturbances, mania, melan- cholia, and progressive mental failure, have been recorded. Diagnosis. — Double-dropped wrist, due to bilateral paralysis of the extensor communis digitorum, without affection of the legs and with- out sensory symptoms, is generally due to lead poisoning. In the double-wrist drop in alcoholic or arsenical neuritis, pain, tenderness, and other sensory symptoms are usually very prominent, and the legs are also affected. The presence of a blue line on the gums is a most important indication of lead poisoning. A history of lead colic, and evidence of a source of lead poisoning, etc. are of much value in the diagnosis. The examination of the drinking-water or of the patient's urine for lead may be of service, though Dr. Dixon Mann has shown that the elimination of lead from the system is much greater by the bowels than by the kidneys. Prognosis.—If the patient is seen at the early stage of the paralysis, and the introduction of the poison into the system at once stopped, recovery soon occurs; if seen at a later stage, recovery is more prolonged. Death may occur from associated granular kidney, or in rare cases from lead encephalopathy. Pathological Anatomy, — The pathological changes in lead paralysis are most marked in the peripheral nerves of the arm, especially the posterior interosseous (radial) nerve. These changes are constantly found. They are most intense in the terminal intramuscular branches, and gradually diminish towards the central end of the nerve-fibres. In the larger nerve-trunks they are much slighter; the cords of the brachial plexus and the anterior nerve-roots are generally, and posterior nerve-roots always, unaffected. The changes consist of a parenchymatous or degenerative neuritis, and the connective tissue between the nerve-fibres is usually little affected; but occasionally an increase of the connective tissue of the epi-, peri-, and endo- neurium is found. In some fibres, presenting the early change, there is degeneration of the myelin sheath, which is broken up into globules and small blocks : the nerve nuclei are more numerous, and the surrounding protoplasm is increased ; but the axis cylinder is preserved. In other fibres, in addition to these changes the axis cylinder has degenerated also; whilst in the fibres most affected there is complete degenera- tion and disappearance of myelin and axis cylinder, and the nerve sheath is empty, with the exception of the nerve nuclei at short intervals. Gombault has described changes which he has been able to detect in guinea-pigs suffering from experimental chronic lead-poisoning. In the early stages he found in the same nerve- fibre diseased segments separated by healthy segments. In the former segments the myelin was broken up into fine granules; the proto- plasm around the nerve nuclei was increased and the nuclei proliferated, but the axis cylinder was unaffected. In other fibres the degenerated myelin globules were clustered into spindle- shaped swellings, which were separated from each other by naked axis cylinders. In the fibres most degenerated the myelin had entirely disappeared, and only the axis cylinders re- mained. Gombault distinguishes these changes from Wallerian degeneration — (1) by their discontinuity, diseased segments being separated by normal segments; (2) by the degeneration being limited to the myelin, whilst the axis cylinder is normal. To this form of degenera- tion he has given the name of " nevrite segmen- taire periaxile." But along with these changes usually fibres are found showing the true Wallerian degeneration. Gombault's periaxial neuritis is probably an early stage of Wallerian degeneration. It has been found in lead paralysis, alcoholic, diphtheritic, and puerperal neuritis. The spinal cord is normal in most cases of lead paralysis. In a few cases atrophy of nerve-cells in the anterior horn of the cervical region, with disappearance of fine nerve-fibres in the anterior horn, has been recorded. But these changes in the nerve-cells of the anterior horns are very rai'e; when present they are usually slight, and the changes in the peripheral nerves are much more advanced.