PARALYSIS 315 There may be considerable disturbance of the muscular sense, either alone or in conjunction with blunting of cutaneous sensibility, so that Romberg's sign may be well marked when the patient stands with the feet together and the eyes closed. Siiperjicial Reflexes. — The most important change that occurs in connection with the superficial reflexes is that on stimulation of the soles of the feet the toes extend instead of flexing as they do in the normal individual. This phenomenon, which indicates affection of the pyramidal fibres, is commonly seen in dis- seminated sclerosis. Some observers attach importance to absence of the abdominal reflexes as a diagnostic sign, as it is said that these reflexes cannot be obtained in a large proportion of cases of disseminated sclerosis. Sphincters. — Slight loss of control over the sphincter of the bladder is commonly an early symptom, and may only amount to some pre- cipitancy of micturition or hesitation at the commencement of the act; but in other cases the defect is more marked ; and there may also be a little weakness of the anal sphincter. Severe affection of the sphincters, leading to complete loss of control over the bladder and rectum, does not usually occur until late in the course of the disease. Sexiuil Disturbances. — There may be some loss of sexual power early in the course of the affection, but in other cases there is increased excitability. Vaso-7iiofor and trophic disturbances, though not frequent, are more common than is gener- ally supposed. Some oedema of the feet and ankles may appear early, and, though most noticeable when the limbs are dependent, it may persist in some degree when the limbs are in a horizontal position. The phenomena that constitute erythromelalgia are present in some cases, in others bleb-like blisters appear on the skin, whilst in others swelling of joints has been observed, notably the small joints of the hands and feet. The surface temperature may be lowered in some part, as, for instance, a limb, and there may be sweating of the part. Bed- sores belong to the final stages of the disease, when absolute loss of control over the sphincters is common, and contributes to their production. The hair is said to fall out in some cases, and trophic changes may occur in the nails. Atrophy of muscles has been observed in a few cases, but this is rare. Palpitation, dyspnoea, and the appearance of sugar in the urine have been attributed to the occurrence of patches of sclerosis in the medulla oblongata. Diagnosis.—There is no difficulty in arriving at a correct diagnosis in a case of disseminated sclerosis, in which the manifestations conform to the classical account of the affection ; but very great difficulty is commonly experienced in recognising the aberrant cases which form so large a proportion of the total number of cases of the disease. Hysteria.—No organic disease of the nervous system is so liable to be mistaken for hysteria as is disseminated sclerosis in its early stage, and in no organic aff'ection is the structural basis so commonly obscured by added hysterical phenomena, so that the detection of hysterical stigmata does not exclude the possibility of an organic substratum. Both affections occur most frequently in young adults; the onset of both may be intimately related to some mental shock or physical injury, which may be of an insignificant character. Intention tremor has been described in hysteria, as has nystagmus, though there ought to be little likelihood of mistaking for true nystagmus the jerky un- steadiness of the eyes which occurs in hysteria, and which is commonly associated with blinking movements of the lids. In attempts to differ- entiate the two affections, the value of the ophthalmoscope cannot be overrated, for the detection of structural changes in the optic nerves places the organic nature of the disease beyond doubt. True nystagmus and aff'ection of the sphincters are also valuable indications of the organic character of the affection, as are ankle clonus, and extensor response as the plantar reflex. Primary Spastic Paraplegia.—In that some cases of disseminated sclerosis present spastic paraplegia as their earliest and only manifesta- tion, for a time, it is obviously impossible to decide at this stage whether symptoms of the more widespread disease will supervene later. The subsequent course of the case can alone reveal its real nature. In watching for the development of other symptoms, care must be exercised not to mistake for the intention tremor and nystagmus of disseminated sclerosis a slight unsteadiness in the upper limbs, and a little nystagmoid jerking which may super- vene, in association with increased activity of the arm-jerks, in cases of spastic paraplegia, presumably due to myelitis limited to the caudal half of the spinal cord. Ataxic Para2)legia.—Much of what has been said with regard to spastic paraplegia applies to this aff'ection also, for many cases of dis- seminated sclerosis come under observation at a stage when the only manifestations present are those which characterise ataxic paraplegia; the subsequent course of the case can therefore alone definitely determine the diagnosis. The large majority of such cases ultimately prove to be disseminated sclerosis. Subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord in its earlier stages is not infrequently mistaken for the paraplegic form of dissemi- nated sclerosis in its early stage ; but combined degeneration of the cord is much the more probable when the aff'ection is symmetrical,