EURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 541 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND N: are not sharply defined, and vary in extent with the size and brightness of the coloured image (Fig. 64). 2. While the various sensations which we call colour are generally produced by vibrations of different lengths falling on the retina, colour sensations are also produced in various other ways. (a) By mechanical stimulation of the retina. By pressing on the eyeball as far back as possible a yellow ring, or part of a ring, may often be seen. (6) Simple alterna- tion of white and black upon the retina may produce colour sensation, as when a disc of paper marked FIG. 65.—Disc which, when rotated with lines, aS shown ^?oSo^"<fo'}ou^?*''""'"^"" in Fig. 65, is rotated rapidlybeforethe eye. 3. By allowing different parts of the spectrum to fall upon the eye at the same time, it is possible to produce either a sensation of white or of some other part of the spectrum. To produce a sensation of white from two or three different parts of the spectrum, a due proportion of each part must be taken, since different parts have different sensational activity. This may be represented by plotting out the various parts of the spectrum on a curve, and joining them to a central spot by means of lines. The length of the line then represents the relative sensitive activity of the particular part of the spectrum to which it passes (Fig. 66). This means that by different modes of stimu- lation of the retina the same sensation may be produced. The sensation of orange may be FlO. I produced either when vibrations at about 580 billions per second fall on the eye, or when two sets of vibrations, one about 640 and one about 560 biUions, reach it. By no possible physical combination of the two is it possible to produce the intermediate rate of vibration. The sensation of colour, therefore, depends upon the nature of the change set up in the retina, and not upon the condition producing that change. What we call colours are particular changes in our consciousness which accompany particular changes in our brain neurons produced by par- ticular changes set up in the retina, in what- ever way these changes may have been produced. 4. After looking for some time at any one colour, on removing the colour another appears in its place—the complemental colour. If the first colour is— Red, the second will be green blue; Orange, ,, „ blue; Green, ,, ,, pink; Yellow, „ ,, indigo blue; and vice versd. Theories of Colour Vision. — 1. From con- sideration of the peripheral colour-blind zone of the retina and of the more limited area giving sensations only of blue and yellow when stimu- lated, and of the most limited central part giving also sensations of red and green, it would seem that some special substance or substances must exist in each of these areas which by its or their stimulation give rise to the various sensations. 2. Considered along with this, the phenomena of complemental colours suggest the possibility of there being one substance which when under- going one change, say breaking down, produces yellow, and when vindergoing another change, say building up, produces blue, and another substance which when undergoing one change produces red, and another change produces green. If such a view be correct, it becomes almost necessary to postulate the existence of another substance which when stimulated gives rise to sensations which we call white. Or there might be four different substances, one when changed giving rise to yellow, another to blue, another to red, and another to green. When the substance giving the sensation of yellow is used up, then the parts stimulated by the rest of the spectrum would react to white light and give a complemental colour, and so on through the other substances. It has also been suggested that the facts may be explained on the assumption that there are three substances in the retina, one more especially stimulated by the red rays but also acted on by the others, one chiefly stimulated by the green rays, and one chiefly acted on by the blue rays. Such theories, however, do not call for consideration from the ordinary student. Colour-Blindness.—While everyone is colour blind at the periphery of the retina, a certain proportion of people—about 5 per cent—are unable to distinguish reds and greens, even at the centre of the retina. Individuals who manifest this condition are often able to name colours fairly accurately, but when asked to match a piece of red wool from a number of