PHARMACOLOGY 442 II. Organic Substances . . . 449 A. —Drugs the Action of which is mainly Local— (1) Vegetable Bitters and Astrin- gents ..... 449 (2) Vegetable Purgatives . . 449 (3) \^Anthelniintics^ . . . 450 B. —Drugs the Action of which is mainly General, and due to Ab- sorption— (1) Volatile Oils . . .450 (2) Methane Series . . .451* (3) Antipyretics of the Aromatic Series . . . .451 (4) Strychnine . . . .452 (5) Opium Sei'ies . . .452 (6) Hydrastine .... 453 (7) Cannabis Indica . . . 453 (8) Hydrocyanic Acid . . 453 (9) Caffeine . . . .453 (10) Curara . . . .454 (11) Conline, Gelseminine, Spar- teine, Lobeline . . . 454 (12) Nicotine .... 454 (13) Atropine Series . . . 454 (14) Cocaine .... 455 (15) Pilocaipine .... 456 (16) Physostigmine . . .456 (17) Aconitine .... 456 (18) Veratrine .... 456 (19) Emetine .... 456 (20) Colchicine . . . .457 (21) Saponins and Sapotoxins . 457 (22) Quini?ie . . . .457 (23) Digitalis and Allied Drugs . 457 (24) Adrenalin .... 459 (25) Ergot 459 (26) mtrites . . . .459 (27) Thyroid . . . .459 (28) Formic Acid and Formates . 460 See also iinder the names of the various drugs —e.g. Aloes and Aloin ; Mercury ; Opium ; ETC.; also under Alkaloids ; Anesthetics ; Antiperiodics ; Antipyretics ; Antispasmodics ; Astringents ; Carminatives ; etc., etc. The science of pharmacology comprehends the effects produced on the healthy animal or- ganisation by drugs, as opposed to the action of the same drugs in disease—a field of study known as therapeutics. Toxicology is in part a branch of pharmacology ; but not all poisons are employed as drugs, hence the study of poisons to some degree extends beyond the bounds of pharmacology. Action of Drugs.—This depends either on their physical or chemical characters. Some drugs, such as bismuth or charcoal, act purely mechanically; others, such as the saline aperients, depend for their effect on osmosis. Yet a third instance of drugs acting physically is seen in the great hypnotic group of which chloral and sulphonal are members. This group contains bodies chemically quite distinct from each other—alcohols, aldehydes, esters, ketones, etc.—all of which, nevertheless, possess in common the property of depressing the central nervous system. Meyer's theory of their narcotic action is that it depends on their solubility in the lipoid matter of the brain. When such bodies are dissolved in a mixture of oil and water the distribution of the drug between the two solvents depends on the relative solubility in each, and it is possible to arrange the drugs in a series ac- cording to the coefficient of this distribution. It is found that those which, like sulphonal and tetronal, have a high coefficient of distribu- tion for fat, are most narcotic; and those, such as urethane and alcohol, with a low one, least so. The reason, of course, is that in the body they distribute themselves among the fat-like and non-fat-like constituents of the tissues according to their affinity for each. This fact also explains the action of most of the sub- stances belonging to this series on the red blood corpuscles, which also contain fatty bodies. They are, it will be remembered, blood poisons, hsemolysis being produced by large doses. Meyer sums up his theory of the laarcotic action of these di'ugs thus: " The narcotising substance enters into a loose physico-chemical combination with the vitally important lipoids of the cell, perhaps with the lecithin, and in so doing changes their normal relationship to the other cell constituents, through which an inhibition of the entire cell chemism results. It also becomes evident that the narcosis immediately disappears as soon as the loose, reversible combination, dependent on the solu- tion tension, breaks up. It follows further, that substances chemically absolutely indifferent, as the volatile saturated hydrocarbons, can act as narcotics." Pharmacological Action and Chemical Con- stitution.— In the case of drugs acting by chemical affinity the modus operandi is some- times apparent—take, for instance, concentrated mineral acids, tannic acid, and metallic astrin- gents. But we are quite ignorant of the nature of the action of such drugs as produce a specific effect on certain cells, as occurs with most of the active drugs employed in medicine. Although it must be supposed that some connection exists between chemical constitution and physiological action, we are as yet very far from being able to generalise on the relation- ship. In what follows, particularly in the section dealing with inorganic drugs, certain likenesses between the actions of similar sub- stances—e.g. the heavy metals — will appear, while the coal-tar derivatives have also many points in common. The first important advance in this direction was made by Fraser and Crum Brown in the discovery that, by introducing the methyl group into the molecule of certain