NEUROKERATIN 47 Neurokeratin.—A felt-work of horn- like material which enters into the constitution of the medullary sheath of a nerve. See Physi- ology, Tissues {Nerve, Axon). NeurolOg'y. — The science which deals with the nervous system from the standpoints of anatomy, physiology, and pathology. See Nervous System, Diseases of, for cross-references. Neurolysis.—The state of exhaustion of a nerve produced by prolonged over-stimulation. Neuroma,.—A tumour arising from a nerve and consisting either of nervous tissue (true neuroma) or of connective mucoid, or some other tissue (false neuroma). See Tumours (Connective-tissue Group, Neuromata). See also Brain, Tumours of {Morbid Anatomy); Nerves, Peripheral {Tiimours, True and False Neuro- mata). Neuromere. — A primitive segment of the cranial part of the neural canal in embryonic life; there are said to be about eleven of them, and they are supposed to correspond to the cranial nerves. NeurometadrasiS.—Animal magnet- ism or hypnotism (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, /iera, with, and SpdaL/jLo^, active). NeuromimesiS.—Nervous mimicry, or the phenomena seen in hysterical and neuras- thenic patients which simulate diseases : there is often a combination of voluntary with in- voluntary action in the production of these simulated maladies. See Malingering {Nervous Mimicry) ; Hysteria ; Neurasthenia. Neuromuscular.—Belonging both to the muscular and to the nervous tissues or functions of the body, e.g. the neuromuscular mechanism of sight. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism. Neuron or Neurone.—Formerly the term neuron was used as a synonym for the cerebrospinal nervous axis, but now it has a re- stricted and well-defined meaning, viz., a unit of the nervous system, one of the cells (with all its processes) which enter into the composition of that system. Each cell has at least one chief process, the axon, and usually a number of other processes which branch and form dendrites on which are seen buds or gemmules ; neighbouring neurons come into relationship not by continuity but by contiguity of their dendrites, and this relationship is named a Synapsis. See Physio- logy, Tissues {Nerve, Neurons); Insanity, Pathology op {Pathological Anatomy, Cortical Nerve-Cells) ; Unconsciousness {Amoeboidism of Nerve-Cells, Neuron Theory). Neuronal.—A hypnotic drug (bromo- diethyl-acetamide) given in doses of 10 to 20 grains in epilepsy and insomnia; mixed with antifebrin it constitutes neurofebrin, used in migraine. Neuronophagia.—The destruction of neurons by phagocytes. Neuron OS US. — A neurosis; e.g. the neuronosi of the shin are such morbid states as dei'matalgia and antesthesia, and form one of the groups of the dermatonosi (Fuchs). NeuropatholOg'y.—The pathology of diseases of the nervous system. Neuropathy.—A nervous malady or affection. Neuroplasty.—The reparative surgery of nerve structures, e.g. nerve-grafting. NeuroporuS.—The opening by which (in the embryo) the medullary groove communi- cates with the exterior ; it is the last part of the medullary groove to be closed in. NeuroproSOpalg'la. — Neuralgia of the fifth nerve (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, Trpdo-wTrov, the face, and aA.yos, pain). See Fifth Nerve, Affections ; Nerves,^ Neuralgia. NeuroretinitiS.—Inflammation of the optic nerve and retina. See Retina and Optic Nerve {Injiammation of the Optic Nerve); Mumps {Complications, Affections of the Eye); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Sympto- matology, Saturnine Encephalopathy). Neurorrhaphy. — The operation by which a divided nerve is united by sutures. Neuroses.—Functional disorders of the nervous system {e.g. neuralgia) in connection with which no structural alterations have (as yet) been discovered. See also Climacteric Insanity {Neuroses of the Climacteric); Heart, Neuroses of ; Hysteria {Sensory Disorders) ; Nose, Nasal Neuroses ; Spine, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Raihvay Spine or Traumatic Neuro- sis) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Special Symptomatology and Treatment of Gas- tric Neuroses). Neuroses, Occupation. Introductory. ..... 47 Etiology ...... 48 Writing Neurosis ..... 48 Other Occupation Neuroses ... 49 Pathology 49 Diagnosis ...... 50 Prognosis ...... 50 Treatment . . . . . .51 By the term " occupation neuroses," or fatigue spasms, is meant a group of functional disorders, characterised by muscular spasm, pain, tremor, and weakness, which are provoked by prolonged