PHARYNX 461 TION OF {Mouth and Throat); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppubative Disease {Chronic Catarrh, Causes); Electrolysis {Angiomata of Pharynx); Glosso-pharyngbal Nerve ; Gout {Irregular, Alimentary System, Pharyngitis); Larynx, Malignant Disease of {Operative Treatment); Mumps {Symptoms, Pharyngitis) ; Neck, Region of {Cysts); Nose, Diseases of {Chronic Inflammation, Adenoid Gro^vths, etc.); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Alimentary Canal, Pharynx); Teeth {Alveolar Abscess, SequelcB); Tonsils, Diseases of ; Typhoid Fever {Symptoms and Complications). Examination of the Pharynx, etc. Examination of the Pharynx . .461 Pharyngeal Affections . . .461 Anemia ...... 461 HiEMORRHAGES . . . .461 Foreign Bodies . . . .462 Pharyngomycosis . . . .463 Neuroses ..... 463 The patient should be seated in a chair fitted with a head rest. A light is placed on his left side slightly behind him, and on a level with his eyes. During the examination the surgeon may stand, or be seated at the patient's right side, slightly in front of him, and facing in the opposite direction. By means of a forehead mirror, which is worn over the right eye, light is reflected into the patient's mouth. The patient is directed to keep the tongue as fiat as possible, while its tip lies behind the lower incisors, and to breathe quietly and regu- larly through the nose. The sides and middle of the tongue are then successively depressed by means of a suitable instrument—preferably Frankel's tongue-depressor. This simple procedure excites in some persons retching, so that a satisfactory view is unobtain- able. The following precautions should be taken in dealing with such patients:—The mouth should not be opened too widely ; the breathing should be shallow and regular; and the point of the tongue-depressor should not be placed too far back on the tongue. If these measures fail, the patient himself should try to use the tongue-depressor effectively. Turck's is the most suitable for this purpose. The exami- nation may be more successful at a subsequent visit after the patient's nervousness has passed off. The normal pharyngeal mucous membrane is pink and moist; there may, however, be con- siderable variations in both respects without any accompanying discomfort. On the other hand, a patient who is not neurotic may com- plain of "sore throat," although no abnormal appearance is discoverable. The colour is best observed on the soft palate and posterior wall. It should be noted that when the mouth is first opened the pharynx occasionally presents a marked vascular injection which passes off in a few seconds. Variations in the amount and character of the secretion are most manifest on the posterior wall. Excessive mucus or muco- pus, coming partly from the naso-pharynx, may be here seen sliding downwards. Undue dry- ness may, on the contrary, be the prominent feature, the secretion forming a thin varnish- like coating or a thick tough discoloured crust. Besides the colour of the soft palate, its mobility should be observed while the patient says " Ah ! " also its distance from the posterior wall. A glance should be taken at the length of the uviila. The size of the tonsils, their relations to the anterior and posterior faucial pillars, and the number and contents of their crypts should be studied. The condition of the lateral walls, especially as regards the presence of granulations, is to be noted. Lastly, the posterior wall claims attention with reference to its colour, secretion, the presence of small vas- cular twigs which show through the mucous membrane, or occasionally of a large pulsating prominence which is caused by a bend of the internal carotid. In examining this region it is important that the neck be not twisted, other- wise one half of the posterior wall (on the side towards which the patient faces) will be shallower than the other half, and by the uninitiated may be mistaken for an abnormal bulging, e.g. retropharyngeal abscess. The examination of the pharynx may be completed by pushing the tongue-depressor far back and causing the patient to retch ; in this way more of the pos- terior wall both above and below is brought into view, possibly also the epiglottis, while the lateral walls become prominent, and the tonsils partly escape from between the faucial pillars. Probing will be facilitated by painting or spray- ing the region to be examined with a cocaine solution (10 per cent). Children who cannot be coaxed to open the mouth may be forced to adopt buccal respiration by pinching the nose. If they still persist in clenching the teeth, the tongue-depressor should be introduced behind the last molars and the pharynx touched. Retching will be thus in- duced, and the mouth opened of necessity. Anemia.—In general anaemia the pharyngeal mucous membrane, especially that of the soft palate, appears unduly pale. The pallor in this region commonly observed in tuberculosis is probably only present after general anaemia has become established, and is therefore of no special diagnostic value. HiEMORRHAGES. — Pharyngeal haemorrhage may take place in the course of certain diseases in which the constitution of the blood or the vessel walls have undergone change, e.g. haemo- philia, purpura, leukaemia, scurvy; or which, by causing a general stasis, favour its occur- rence, e.g. emphysema, cardiac insufficiency, cirrhosis of the liver, granular kidney. On the