ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 183 If caused by a penetrating wound, examination by careful probing may afford evidence of the fracture. Such injuries are always seriovis, and when due to perforating wounds are fatal in a large proportion (over 80 per cent, Berlin) of the cases. Cerebral symptoms may not appear for some days after the injury. In all cases of fracture of the orbital walls, extensive haemorrhage into the soft parts may occur, inducing exophthalmos. Fracture of the sphenoid bone, involving the optic foramen and damaging the optic nerve, is not very uncommon. It is caused by blows or falls upon the head, usually in the frontal region, and may or may not be associated with extensive fracture of the base of the skull. The ocular symptoms are immediate and generally complete loss of sight in the eye on the side of the injury, although in consequence of the mental condition of the patient the blindness often remains undiscovered for some days after the accident. No ophthalmoscopic signs of injury are found at the time, but in the course of a few weeks the optic disc invariably becomes atrophied. The blindness is due to laceration of the optic nerve in the foramen opticum, or, possibly, in some instances to com- pression of the nerve by extravasated blood. Recovery of vision is very unusual. Such cases may have a medico-legal importance, as owing to the absence of visible changes at first, simu- lation of blindness may be suspected. Severe blows upon the orbit are occasionally followed by recession of the eyeball, and narrowing of the palpebral fissure, a condition to which the term enoj^hthalmos traumaticus is applied. The enophthalmos may appear im- mediately after the injury, or not until the lapse of some weeks. In the former case, the cause is probably fracture of the floor of the orbit into the antrum of Highmore ; in the latter the formation of citatricial bands and shrinking of the orbital fat as a result of in- flammatory changes. Treatment.—Penetrating wounds of the orbit should be treated by careful cleansing and dis- infection of the wound, and the provision of free drainage, if necessary. The skin wound, unless very minute, should be sutured, in part or in its whole extent, and, if ragged, should be trimmed, and its edges brought together as accurately as possible, to minimise the subsequent disfigurement. Ordinary surgical dressings are then applied. If a foreign body is detected, it should, as a rule, be removed; but small shot, or minute fragments of steel or other metal which have penetrated deeply, are usually better left undisturbed. In cut- ting down upon a foreign body in the orbit, great care should be taken to avoid injury of the ocular muscles and nerves, and the fragment should be removed with as little disturbance of the structures as possible. This precaution is especially needful when dealing with a long splinter of metal or wood, the deeper end of which may have penetrated the cranial cavity. If an abscess form in the track of the wound, it must be dealt with by incision and drainage, and other usual means. When exophthalmos from haemorrhage or emphysema is extreme, continuous pressure by a bandage should be employed, and great care be exercised in the protection of the cornea. In cases of recent laceration or division of one of the recti muscles, an attempt should be made to find and unite the cut ends. If the injury is of long standing, other operative pro- cedures may be needful. Fractures of the orbital wall seldom require or admit of treatment designed to reduce dis- placement, but when the injury involves the margin of the orbit, it is sometimes possible to replace the fragments and keep them in position by careful bandaging. Small loose splinters of bone, especially if associated with a lacerated wound, should be removed. All cases of sus- pected deep fracture of the orbital walls, especially of the roof, should be considered serious, and carefully watched for the develop- ment of cerebral symptoms. Tumours of the Orbit The difficulty of satisfactorily classifying tumours of the orbit is evident from the very varied ai-rangement adopted by different writers. A rough, but useful, clinical division of orbital tumours is into solid, cystic, and vascular. The first group will include osseous, sarcomatous, and carcinomatous tumours, and some rarer growths; the second, congenital cystic forma- tions and parasitic cysts; while in the third group are placed all varieties of angioma. Tumours of the orbit are not uncommon. Statistics indicate that they account for rather more than 40 per cent of all kinds of disease of the orbit. Their frequency varies con- siderably with age. According to Hasner, the largest proportion of cases is met with in the first decade of life; the next largest in the second decade. Of the subsequent periods the fifth decade shows the greatest number. These statistics may be partially explained by the fact that most cases of congenital tumours come under observation and treatment during childhood. Tumours may be primarily orbital, that is, originating in the tissues of the orbit, or, as is frequently the case, they may spread to the orbit from neighbouring structures in which they have arisen. The diagnosis between these two classes of cases, although difficult clinically, is important in reference to the question of operative treatment, and consequently of prognosis. A new growth which begins in, and is limited to, the orbit much more readily admits of complete removal than one which