136 NURSING, TRAINING FOR midwifery, is wonderful, as far as it goes; but no woman who has sufficient education to pass the preUminary examination in hospital should be content with anything less than a full train- ing qualifying them to take charge of any form of illness. Midivifery and Monthly Nursing.—The Lon- don Obstetrical Society gives a certificate on passing the examination provided the candidate has had three months' training in some recog- nised maternity institute. Licenses to mid- wives are granted by the Royal College of Physicians, Ireland, on the candidate having a certificate of six months' training in a recognised lying-in hospital, and being able to pass the ex- amination instituted by the Board. This train- ing is sufficient when taken after a three years' course of general nursing, but is inadequate for the majority of women who go in for this class of nursing without any previous training. The average age is between twenty-three and forty years, and the fee for midwifery training is about £26, while that for monthly nursing is generally smaller. The following is a list of training hospitals :— Queen Charlotte's Lying-in Hospital, Maryle- bone Road. General Lying-in Hospital, York Road, Lam- beth, S.E. Clapham School of Midwifery, Clapham Road, London, S.W. Maternity Charity, Howard's Road, Plaistow, Essex. Rotunda Lying-in Hospital, Dublin. Mental Nursing.—-In order to gain a certifi- cate the nurse must pass the examination held by the Medico - Psychological Association of Great Britain and Ireland. The regulations made by the Association for the training and certification of attendants and nurses for the in- sane are carried out under the supervision of an educational committee. Attendants must have trained for two years at an asylum recognised for the purpose by the Council of the Associa- tion before they can enter for the examination. The system of training must include systematic lectures and demonstrations by the medical staff. A register is kept of all persons who receive the certificate, whose names may be erased and the certificate forfeited in case of misconduct. These regulations came into force after October 31, 1900. Nuta.tion.—A movement of oscillation or (literally) of nodding such as may take place in labour when the upper end of the sacrum moves backward and the lower end forward, or vice versd. Nutmeg^. — The dried seed of Myristica fragrans is used in medicine, and is known as nutmeg; it has an aromatic taste and odour. and it contains a volatile oil {Oleum Myristicae. of the B.P.) and a fixed concrete oil (consisting of the oleate, butyrate, and myristate of glyceryl or myristin). The volatile oil is composed of a hydrocarbon (myristicene, CjgHjg), of myristicol (CjqH^i,0), and of cymene (Cj^Hj^). The dose of the oil is ^ to 3 m., and from it is prepared the Spiritus MyristiccB, whose dose is 5 to 20 m. Nutmeg is contained in several other prepara- tions such as Pulvis Cretce Aromaticus, Spiritus AmmonicB Aromaticus, and Mistura Ferri Com- posita; and it has the pharmacological actions of a volatile oil. See also Pharmacology (Volatile Oils). Nutmegs Liver. See Liver, Diseases OP {Chronic Venous Congestion, Nutmeg Liver, or Cardiac Liver). Nutrient Enemata. See Enemata {Nutrient). i^utrition. See Diet; Food; Infant- Feeding ; Invalid - Feeding ; Milk ; Physi- ology, Food and Digestion ; etc. NutrOSe.—A proprietary preparation of casein, neutral casein sodium; caseinogen ren- dered soluble by being combined with sodium. See Diet {Milk and its Products). Nuts.—As a food, nuts are rich in fat and cellulose and diflScult of digestion, but as they are poor in carbohydrates they may be used in diabetes. See Diabetes Mellitus {Treatment, Diet); Diet {Fruits, Nuts); Physiology, Food and Digestion ( Vegetable Food-Stuffs, Nuts). NUX Vomica. See also Strychnina ; Toxicology {Alkaloids).—Nux vomica consists of the dried seeds of an East Indian plant, the Strychnos nux vomica, of the Natural Order of the Loganiacese. Both this seed and the allied St. Ignatius bean contain strychnine, the latter in larger amount. The seeds show a central scar on one surface, and are covered with satin- like hairs ; they have a very bitter taste. They contain several alkaloids : strychnine {q.v.) and brucine {q.v.), united with igasuric acid, and loganin (a glucoside). The dose is 1 to 4 grains. There are three official preparations: the Ex- tractum Nucis Vomicae Liquidum (dose, 1 to 3m.); the Fxtractum Nucis Vomicm (dose, \ to 1 grain); and the Tinctura Nucis Vomicce (dose, 5 to 15 m.). Nux vomica is used as a stomachic, a bitter tonic, and, on account of its action in increasing peristalsis, as a purgative ; it is also a cardiac stimulant. In cases of pregnancy, in which previous confinements were complicated by post-partum hcemorrhage, nux vomica may be given for some weeks before the expected date of delivery to prevent the occurrence of the haemorrhage. Nyctalopia. — Night - blindness. See Hemeralopia ; Choroid, Diseases of {Congenital