NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 104 The mucous membrane frequently presents a uniformly swollen, gelatinous appearance. Not infreqvxently this condition is associated with the presence of numerous soft polypoid pro- cesses, which vary considerably in size and in number, and may even fill up the interior of the cavity. Occasionally a single polypus is met with in the sinus. In consequence of the swollen cedematous condition of the lining mem- brane the ostium of the cavity may become partially blocked and the free drainage of pus interfered with. The deeper periosteal layer also becomes involved, leading either to a plastic or a destructive process in the subjacent bone. While caries of the osseous wall is met with, and sometimes necrosis, it is undoubtedly the case that in a very large number of cases no destruction of bone occurs, which is probably accounted for by the fact that the bony walls of these cavities are provided with a periosteal covering on each aspect. In consequence of destruction of the bone perforation of the sinus wall may result, and various complications follow. A communication may thus be established between the antrum and ethmoidal cells, or between these cells and the frontal sinus. In a similar way the frontal sinus, ethmoidal cells, and antrum may com- municate with the orbital fossa, and fistulous tracts resvilt therefrom (Fig. 4). Implication of the orbit and the formation of a secondary abscess in that cavity may lead to temporary or perma- nent injury of the eyeball and its adnexa, and may prove the starting-point of intracranial complications. Orbital cellulitis with abscess formation may occur without any perforation of the bone, infection taking place through the blood or lymph channels. Within the nose itself alterations in the mucous membrane are frequently observed. These consist in the development of polypi in the middle meatus and in its vicinity. They may completely block the nasal chamber or be insignificant in size. The nasal lining membrane generally presents a swollen and reddened appearance, while the inferior turbinated body may be turgescent; these intranasal changes probably result from the irritation of the purulent nasal discharge. Intracranial complications may be secondary to suppuration in any of the accessory sinuses, though not so often in connection with antral disease. Although more frequently due to chronic affections, their occurrence in acute cases must not be lost sight of. The infection occurs as the result of caries and destruction of the sinus wall, thus establishing a direct com- munication with the cranial cavity, or it may spread inwards through venous channels or lymphatic vessels of the diploe without any macroscopic evidence of the path of infection. In some cases the mischief passes from the orbit along the ophthalmic veins to the cavernous sinus. Perforation of the posterior wall of the frontal sinus or of the roof of the sphenoidal sinus may be followed by extradural, subdural, or cerebral abscess, by purulent basal or general meningitis, by thrombosis of the cavernous, petrosal, and superior longitudinal sinuses, or by a combination of two or more of these com- plications. An ever-increasing number of fatal cases with the primary source of infection in the nasal sinuses is being recorded, and in many instances the real cause of the intracranial com- plication has only been revealed at the post- mortem examination. 5. Acute Inflammation in the Accessory Sinuses.—Acute inflammation and suppuration of one or more of these cavities probably occur more frequently as concomitant complications of acute coryza, influenza, and certain of the exanthemata than is generally supposed to be the case. The onset of the inflammation may be masked by the severity of the coryza which precedes or accompanies it. Sometimes the patient's attention is drawn to the fact that during the acute stage of the cold the muco- purulent discharge is more than usually copious, perhaps especially so from one nostril, and further, that it continues for a longer time than is customary. The symptoms commonly associated with acute inflammation in the acces- sory cavities are considerably modified accord- ing as the ostium of the cavity remains patent or becomes closed from swelling of its mucous membrane. In the former case the secretion drains away more or less freely, and a spon- taneous cure frequently results, while in the latter case there is retention and consequent aggravation of the symptoms. (a) The Maxillary Sinus.—The symptoms of an acute coryza may be characterised by severe neuralgia in the cheek and forehead of the aff'ected side, the pain in some of these cases being associated with a considerable degree of photophobia. A rigor and a rise of temperature sometimes precede the onset of the pain, and tenderness may be elicited upon pressure over the cheek or upon the gums. The severity of the symptoms may then be greatly diminished by a sudden and copious flow of secretion from the corresponding nostril. The discharge varies in character, being perhaps at first serous or slightly blood-stained, but becoming muco- purulent or purulent; from the first it may consist entirely of thick creamy pus. Cessation of the flow of pus may be followed by an ex- acerbation of the symptoms, again to be relieved by a sudden return of the discharge. This alteration in the character of the symptoms is very suggestive of the condition. The dis- charge gradually diminishes in quantity with a corresponding amelioration of the pain and local discomfort, and after a varying period of time either a spontaneous cure results or the condition becomes chronic. In other cases, again, operative interference is demanded be-