PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 530 passes; and in using it, it is necessary to ob- serve certain precautions. First, the two points must touch the skin simultaneously. Second, they must touch it lightly and with equal pressure each time. Third, they must not be worked steadily from close together to further apart, or vice versa, but must be used now in the one way, now in the other. In this way it is easy to demonstrate that over the tips of the fingers, where tactile organs are very abundant, the two points of contact will give rise to a double sensation when no more than 2 mm. apart, while over the back of the hand they do not give a double sensation till they are about 30 mm. apart. Over the thigh and back they must be no less than 50 to 70 mm. apart. Both the peripheral mechanism and the cen- tral nervous system are involved in this locali- sation, and hence the power varies with the condition of the skin as regards temperature, etc., and with the state of the nervous system. 3. The Power of Distinguishing Contacts in Time. —■ If the finger be brought against a toothed wheel rotated slowly, the contacts of the individual teeth will be separately felt. But if the wheel V~\ V~\ V~\ V~\ is made to rotate more and more rapidly, the separate sensa- tions are no longer felt, but Fig. 47.—Relationship of sensation to a COntmuoUS stimulus, with weak and strong ^. -f stimuli. Stimuli represented by sense OI contact vertical lines —the strength being jg experienced, indicated by their height. Sensa- mv." A' tions represented by the curves. i h 1S indicates that, if stimuli follow one another sufficiently rapidly, the sensations produced are fused. From this it is obvious that the sensation lasts longer than the stimulus—the contact (Fig. 47). The duration of the sensation depends upon the degree of stimulation of the peripheral tac- tile organs. When the stimuli are strong, as in the contact of the finger with the rough edge of a toothed wheel, the sensations last a con- siderable time, and thus stimuli, following one another at about 500 times per second, cause a fusion of sensation. On the other hand, if a violin string is made to vibrate against the finger, the stimuli are weak, and the resulting sensations of short duration, and hence stimuli may follow one another with great rapidity, say to 1200 per second, and still be distinguished by separate sensations. The paths of conduction to and in the central nervous system, and the position of the centre in the brain, are considered on p. 569. {b) For Addition and Withdrawal op Heat. —Thermal tieiise.—Heat, like light, is physically a form of vibration of the ether. The tempera- ture sense depends upon the fact that when heat is withdrawn from the body we have one kind of sensation which we call cold, and when heat is added to our body another sensation which we call hot. This depends upon the temperature of our body in relationship to the surroundings, and not merely on the tempera- ture of surrounding bodies. If three basins of water are taken, one very hot, one very cold and one of medium temperature, and if a hand be placed, one in the very hot and one in the very cold water for a short time, and then transferred to the basin with water at a medium temperature, the water will feel hot upon the hand that has been in the cold water and cold upon the hand that has been in the hot water. The rate at which the heat is abstracted or added is the governing factor for causing the sensation; a sudden change of temperature stimulates far more powerfully than a slow change. For this reason the thermal conduc tivity of substances in contact with the skin has an influence upon the sensation. If a piece of iron and a piece of flannel side by side be touched, the first will feel cold, the second will not, because the former has high thermal con- ductivity, the latter has not, and thus the former abstracts heat more rapidly than the latter. Certain parts of the skin are stimulated by the withdrawal of heat, and their stimulation is accompanied by sensations of cold, while others are stimulated by the addition of heat and give rise to a sense of warmth. This may be demon- strated by taking the cold point of a pencil and passing it over the back of the hand, when it will be felt as cold only at certain points; such points have been called cold spots, while similar spots stimulated by the addition of heat are called hot spots. The acuteness of the temperature sense may be tested by finding the smallest difference of temperature which can be distinguished. This may be done by taking two test tubes in which thermometers have been placed, and filling them with water at slightly different temperatures and then applying them to different parts of the skin. If the temperature is very low or very high, differences of temperature are not readily distinguished, and in fact painful sensa- tions may take the place of temperature sensa- tions. But between 15° and 50° C. the power of distinguishing differences of temperature is fairly constant, but it varies in diff"erent parts of the body. Over the cheek as small a differ ence as '2° C. can be appreciated, while on the back the difference must be as great as '9° C. The temperature sense is independent of the tactile sense. The one may be lost and the other retained. It is probable that the nerve endings in the deeper layers of epithelium are connected with the temperature sense. But although independent, the tactile and thermal senses influence one another. A cold body