NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 101 superior maxillary nerve and the infra-orbital vessels. The floor is formed by the alveolar process of the upper jaw, and has an important relation to the teeth. As a rule, the floor of the antrum and the floor of the nasal cavity lie on the same horizontal plane. The layer of spongy bone between the roots of the teeth and the antral cavity varies in thickness in different skulls, and often on the two sides of the same skull ; it is rare to find a direct communication between the roots of the teeth and the mucous membrane of the antrum. The relation of the teeth to the floor of the cavity varies according to the dimensions of the sinus. The three molar teeth bear the most constant relation to the floor, while the second bicuspid comes next in frequency (Fig. 1). The posterior wall of the maxillary sinus is a thin plate of bone which intervenes between that cavity and the zygomatic fossa. The inner or nasal ivall is clinically of con- siderable importance. That portion which lies beneath the attachment of the inferior turbi- nated bone, and forms the outer wall of the inferior meatus, consists of a thin layer of bone; it is thinnest immediately below the turbinated, where it off'ers the most favourable site for ex- ploratory puncture of the sinus. Above the inferior turbinated bone the nasal wall forms the outer boundary of the middle meatus, and is partly osseous, partly membranous. In this region is situated the maxillary opening {ostium maxillare). It lies immediately beneath the roof of the antral cavity, a position which does not favour free drainage through it (Figs. 1 and 4). Under cover of the middle turbinated bone it opens into the infundibulum (Figs. 1 and 4), a canal on the outer nasal wall, which also receives the orifices of many of the anterior ethmoidal cells, and usually also the duct lead- ing from the frontal sinus in many cases. The infundibulum in its turn communicates with the middle meatus through the hiatus semilunaris —a narrow slit-like opening, bounded above by the ethmoidal bulla, below by the uncinate pro- cess (Fig. 2). Sometimes an accessory maxillary opening exists, which lies at a lower level than and posterior to the infundibular opening (Fig. 2). It communicates directly with the middle meatus immediately above the posterior half of the inferior turbinated bone. In some cases of antral suppuration the discharge mainly passes backwards into the nasopharynx, an occurrence probably explained by the existence of this accessory opening. The anterior or facial ivall is thin. In front, this surface is marked by the canine ridge, immediately behind which is the canine fossa, through which the antral cavity is frequently opened. The maxillary sinus varies in size in diff"erent skulls, and sometimes also on the two sides of the same skull. It may be diminished by an undue approximation of its facial and nasal walls, or from a want of absorption of the bone during its development. In the latter case the walls of the cavity may be of considerable thickness. It is very rarely either completely or incompletely subdivided by partitions. The Frontal Sinuses are situated in the frontal bone immediately above the root of the nose, and extend upwards and outwards upon the forehead and backwards along the roof of the orbit, subject to very considerable variations in size and shape (Fig. 3). They are not present at birth, and probably do not exist before the seventh year of life. One or both sinuses may be absent. Each cavity has three walls— anterior, posterior, and inferior. The anterior is the thickest, varying from 1-5 mm. The inferior wall or floor is the thinnest, so that secretion retained in the cavity tends to make it bulge. The thickness of the walls varies in different skulls and on the two sides of the same skull. A bony septum, which is very rarely incomplete, intervenes between the two sinuses. It is usually mesial in position, but may deviate to one or other side of the mesial plane. In marked cases of deviation the ob- liquity of the septum leads to considerable asymmetry of the sinuses—in some cases one cavity extending so far across the mesial plane of the forehead as to reduce the other to a mere slit. In such cases the surgeon may fail to open the diseased cavity when operating through the anterior wall. The following measurements sufficiently indicate a sinus of average size: height (1^ in.) from the lower end of the fronto-maxillary suture vertically upwards; breadth (1 in.) from a mesial septum horizontally outwards; depth (| in.) from the anterior wall of the cavity backwards along the orbital roof. The dimensions vary considerably independently of the degree of development of the glabella and supraciliary ridges. Thus the sinuses may exist merely as recesses limited to a small area above the nose. On the other hand, the cavity may extend upwards on to the forehead for more than two inches, while exter- nally it may be limited by the bony wall of the temporal fossa and reach as far back as the optic foramen in the roof of the orbital cavity. By the aid of transillumination, to be afterwards described, the extent of the cavities can be delineated on the forehead in many individuals. The interior of the sinus may present consider- able irregularities; incomplete partitions often exist, giving rise to the formation of pockets. Such diverticula are frequently found towards the external angle of the sinus. Special atten- tion should be paid to this region, and to the backward extension of the floor along the orbital roof, in the operative treatment of chronic sup- puration. A sinus may be almost completely subdivided by a vertical, or to a lesser extent by a horizontal bony partition, each subdivision communicating with the nose. Each sinus com-