PARALYSIS 327 follows some fright or emotion. The loss of power is usually moderate in degree at first, and gradually increases, and may assume any degree from slight ataxy of movement to complete paralysis. The power which remains is put into action irregularly. There is often resistance to passive movement. If an attempt be made to execute a given movement, op- ponents of the acting muscles may be felt to contract, and any resulting movement is accompanied by tremor. Often the nature and distribution of the paralysis are peculiar; individual movements and muscles may be exempt in cases where the paralysis is otherwise complete. A patient who, while in bed, may perform all movements against moderate re- sistance may be entirely unable to make even an attempt to stand or walk; in other cases standing may be possible, but on the attempt to walk the knees immediately give way and the patient falls to the ground. This is the condition to which the term astasia abasia has been applied {vide infra). It is not peculiar to functional disease, but may exist in any case where there is loss of power or of the muscular sense in the quadriceps extensor femoris, peri- pheral neuritis, tabes dorsalis, spastic para- plegia, disseminate sclerosis, etc. It is explained by the fact, that with the knee extended very little muscular eftbrt is required to keep the knee rigid for the support of the body weight, but directly the knee is bent the whole weight of the body is thrown upon the quadriceps. Further, where paralysis approaches complete- ness in the waking state, a patient may, if carefully watched, be seen to move the affected limbs freely when in the lighter stages of sleep, and the same result is often seen in the early stages of surgical anaesthesia. Such contradictory phenomena occur in great variety in functional paralysis, and though highly characteristic of the disease, are not absolutely pathognomonic, as they also occur, though rarely, in organic paralysis. When walking is possible the gait is often characteristic, and has been termed by Hugh- lings Jackson the "constructed" gait, for every difficulty is exaggerated, and all kinds of peculiar movements of trunk and limbs added, while the patient often evinces much emotional disturbance during the attempt to walk. Sometimes a patient who walks in this manner when unsupported may walk quite naturally if she is allowed to hold a single finger of the observer, this slight support giving her con- fidence. It has been stated that such patients never fall, when walking, in such a way as to hurt themselves, but collapse gently on to the ground, and this fact has been used as a test to distinguish functional paraplegia. It is, how- ever, not invariably true, and as a test it has been fraught with severe injuries and dangerous consequences. The paraplegia is sometimes quite flaccid, generally slightly spastic, not often severely spastic, and the occurrence of contractures is much less common than in functional hemi- plegia. When contractures occur they resemble those described in functional hemiplegia. There is never flexor contracture at hip and knee such as commonly occurs in organic spastic para- plegia ; and pes cavus, so characteristic of the latter condition, never occurs. Spontaneous clonus (epileptoid spasm) never occurs. In most cases the paralysis is confined to the lower extremities, and these may be unequally affected. Rarely all four extremities are affected. The trunk is sometimes affected, but never segment- ally ; there is then inability to rise from the supine position. There is no muscular wasting, and the electric excitability is vinaltered. The tendon reflexes are increased, and there may be foot clonus. Sometimes this latter is indis- tinguishable from the foot clonus of organic disease, but more frequently it is commenced by a voluntary movement of plantar extension at the ankle, and does not occur if the foot be fully dorsiflexed (such a clonus may be produced at will by most healthy people in certain posi- tions of the leg and foot; for instance, sitting forward with the feet on tiptoe). The plantar reflexes are often absent, whether antesthesia be present or not. When obtained they are always of the flexor type. Sometimes a move- ment of the tensor vaginse femoris alone occurs on stimulating the sole of the foot. Incontinence of the sphincters never occurs. There may be slight difficulty in starting the act of micturition, an exaggeration of a con- dition not uncommon in healthy persons. Since incontinence of sphincters is one of the most important symptoms in distinguishing functional from organic disease, patients must be very accurately and directly questioned, more espe- cially as in women slight difficulties are often concealed. As examples of the care necessary to avoid erroneous diagnosis, the following in- stances may be cited :—A patient with a well- marked functional paraplegia complained of inability to hold her water. She was admitted into hospital and was found to be suffering with thrombosed htemorrhoids, the treatment of which cured the incontinence. Another patient, in whom precipitancy of micturition had led to the diagnosis of organic disease, had suffei'ed with sphincter trouble ever since infancy, and the paraplegia had occurred from shock six weeks before examination. In a third case severe cystitis and consequent incontinence had been set up from the repeated use of an unclean catheter by the patient herself, the catheter having been originally ordered for hysterical retention. It is the rule for anesthesia to be present in some form in the paralysed region. Sensibility to pain is as a rule most impaired, and that to