358 PARASITES thin shelled. At a suitable temperature (20°- 30° C.) and in the presence of decomposing faecal matter the actively motile embryos are hatched out. Although it is not yet definitely determined whether there is a free generation, there is considerable evidence against such a supposition, and Giles (1901) admits that his theory of an alternation of generations is un- tenable. Man is probably the only host of this worm, although the same species is said to be parasitic in certain monkeys. The parasite inhabits the duodenum and upper parts of the small intestine, the anterior extremity being imbedded in the mucous membrane and fixed thereto by the chiti- nous teeth. It is a frequent parasite in tropical and subtropical climates, is exceedingly common in Egypt, Burmah, Madras, Bengal, and other parts of India, in the West Indies, Brazil, San Salvador, and Guatemala. It is common, too, in Italy, and by Italian labourers has been trans- ferred to other parts of Europe. Severe out- breaks of ankylostomiasis occurred during the tunnelling of the St. Gothard Pass, and still occur from time to time in mines, brickworks, etc. In Northern Europe, however, the disease is not endemic, for the free living embryos are killed by frost. Perhaps the most widely accepted opinion as to the mode of infection is that this occurs by means of food contaminated with soil containing the embryos. Further, in ankylos- tomiasis earth-eating is not an uncommon phenomenon, and reinfection of the host will thereby be facilitated. The drinking of polluted water is, however, regarded by some as of great etiological importance ; but there are a number of facts which throw doubt on this being the common mode of infection, one being that, according to Giles, the development of the embryos is retarded or even entirely inhibited by their immersion in water, whilst Looss (1901) states that the embryos do not float in water, but soon sink. A third view as to the mode of infection is based on the experiments of Looss (1901), which show that the embryos can rapidly enter the skin through the hair follicles. He himself claims to have been in- fected in this manner, and considers infection through the skin to be the usual mode of infection of, at any rate, the field-labourers in Egypt, of tunnel-workers, and of all those whose occupation necessitates their skin being in more or less constant contact with wet and contami- nated soil. Persons in normal health are frequently the hosts of this parasite. Thus it is calculated that 72 per cent of persons in some parts of India harbour this parasite and remain in good health (Fearnside, 1900), and that at least half of the poorer inhabitants of Burmah possess this parasite (Baker, 1900). It is therefore evident that every individual who harbours this parasite cannot, strictly speaking, be said to be affected with ankylostomiasis. Hence this term must be reserved to denote the morbid condition resulting from the presence of the worms. The minimum number of the parasites requisite to cavise ankylostomiasis is variously estimated at from 50 to 500, whilst in many instances enor- mous numbers are present. The parasite with- draws blood from the host by suction, and this loss of blood is regarded by some as the cause of one of the most prominent features in ankylostomiasis, namely, the severe anaemia; though many suppose that the anaemia is due to some toxic substance excreted by the parasites, or, again, to absorption of intestinal toxins through the lesions in the mucous membrane. In the initial stages there is gastro-intestinal disturbance, with progressive loss of weight; anaemia develops rapidly or slowly, and in time becomes profound, and is associated with palpitation, vertigo, and other symptoms of severe anaemia. The red blood corpuscles are reduced by about two-thirds, and the colour index is reduced to about one- half of the normal. There is at times a moderate fall in the total number of leucocytes,- but the eosinophile leucocytes are increased. In the later stages there is wasting, cardiac weakness, and dropsy. The diagnosis is readily made by the elimination of other possible causes of anaemia, and by the detection of the eggs in the stools. Post-mortem, the upper part of the small intestine shows, besides the parasites, chronic catarrh, small areas of congestion, haemorrhage, erosion, and even ulceration of the mucous membrane, and sometimes thei'e are dilatation of the stomach, cardiac hypertrophy and dilatation, and various secondary phenomena. Prophylaxis.—In countries where ankylosto- miasis is endemic much may be expected from improved sanitation. In many parts of Europe in which there have been outbreaks of " miners' anaemia," as the disease is often termed, good results have been obtained by the suitable erection of latrines, by their regular disinfection with chloride of lime, and by the instruction of miners and others as to the nature and mode of propagation of the disease. In this country, foreigners, and especially Italians, should not be permitted to work in mines until microscopic examination has shown them to be free of the parasite. In the treatme7it of the disease thymol is the best drug. After a dose of castor oil, 30-60 grains of thymol should be given in the morning to the fasting patient, and this is followed by another dose of castor oil in the evening. Manson recommends that 30 grains of tliymol be given hourly for four times. The drug, as a rule, effects a cure, although the experience of many proves it to be at times inefficacious. In such cases santonin and filix mas may be tried. The preparations of iron are useful after expulsion of the parasites.