EDITORIAL NOTE This volume (the seventh) of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery contains 1322 subject headings, and carries the work from Neriin to Physiology. Besides containing important monographs on Nerves, Nose, Paralysis, Peritoneum, etc. (which have appeared in the Encyclopaedia Medico)^ it has been furnished with a new article on Pharmacology, with the first half of a large paper on Physiology, and with numerous short contributions dealing with subjects of interest, such as the Ophthalmo-Reaction and Opsonins. Certain subjects, in which there has been marked progress during recent years, have been revised—e.g. the article on Diseases OF THE Pancreas ; and new paragraphs have been added (under Parasites) dealing with trypano- somes, with the sjyirochcefe pallida, with piroplasma, and with cytoryctes. There are fifty-seven articles of more than 1000 words in length. These vary much in size, the contribution on Paralysis covering sixty-six pages, while Opium occupies only two pages. Noteworthy papers which are found in this group are those on Injuries and Diseases of Peripherdl Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis, Neuralgia, Neurasthenia, Occupation Neuroses, Diseases of the Nexv-horn Infant, Night Terrors, Nursery Hygiene, Nursing, Obesity, Affections of the Ocular Muscles, Injuries and Diseases of the (Esophagus, Ophthalmoplegia, Diseases of the Orbit, Osteo- Ai-thropathies, Osteomalacia, Otorrhoea, Diseases of the Ovaries, Cleft Palate and Hare-Lip, Diseases of the Panci-eas, Paranoia, Parasites, Disorders of the Parotid Gland, Pediculosis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor, Pempihigus, Surgical Affections of the Penis, Diseases of the Pericardium, Pharma- cology, Physiognomy, and Physiology. Several subjects are discussed in sections—viz., The Diseases of the Nose (in ten sections). Diseases of the Peritoneum (in four), and Diseases of the Pharynx (in five). Of articles of less than 1000 words but of at least ten lines in length, there are seventy-five. These include paragraphs dealing with Nessler's Reagent, Neurofibromatosis, Neuron, Neutrophile Granules, Nitric Acid, Nitrites, Niti'ogen, Notification, Novocaine, Nuclein, Nutmeg, Nux Vomica, Nystagmus, Obliquity, (Edema, Offensive, Ohm, Oils, define, Olive Oil, Ophthalmo-Reaction, Ovari- otomy, Oxalic Acid, Oxygen, Pacchionian Bodies, Pagefs Disease, Palpitation, Pangenesis, Paracen- tesis, Paraffin, Paraldehyde, Paregoric, Pepper, Peppermint, Pepsin, Percolation, Petechice, Pharyn- gocele, Phenacetin, and Phosphorus. Short articles (of less than ten lines in length) are present in this volume to the luimber of 1190, and, as may be imagined, deal with a great variety of subjects. There are paragraphs in which medical terms are defined, and others in which a few words of description suffice to illustrate a morbid state or to make plain a physiological phenomenon. Some of the subjects considered in these short articles may be named : Neroli Oil, Nerve Storms, Nervi Erigentes, Nervosism, Nestle's