235 PALATE feeble and badly nourished. This condition of malnutrition is not due entirely to difficulty in feeding. Such infants are weakly and feebly developed, and sometimes die in spite of the careful administration of food. Exposure of the mouth and naso-pharynx in these compli- cated cases renders attacks of catarrh of common occurrence. Treatment of Hare-Lip.—Hare-lip can only be cured by operation, the objects of which are to close the cleft as early as possible, to avoid risk to life and to obtain a satisfactory result. The attainment of these ends falls to be considered under age, state of health, and essentials for success in operating. 1. Age.—The simpler the case the earlier can the operation be undertaken. In the severer forms there are greater loss of blood and more shock, and surgical treatment is often better delayed. The operation ought to be performed before the sixth month, that is before primary dentition begins, unless there be some special reason for delay. It may be stated generally that the best time is between the sixth and twelfth week. At this period the child is better able to stand the loss of blood than at an earlier date, and the deformity has not become aggravated by delay. Some surgeons operate during the first few days or weeks of life, and this may be done in strong healthy children and in slight cases. When cleft palate complicates hare-lip the latter should always be dealt with first in the case of young children. The operation on the lip improves the palate condition. In children, after the fourth year, it is more convenient to treat the palate first and the lip subsequently. Those who operate upon the palate in infants also follow this order in operating. 2. The State of the Child's Health. — The health of the patient should be in the best possible condition. Feeble infants stand surgical interference badly, and a relatively severe operation may be attended by risk to life; further, loss of blood and its attendant shock predisposes to- wards sepsis, which is an important factor in the production of failure of primary union. If a feeble state of the general health arise from inability to take a sufficient quantity of food, careful feeding must be employed from birth. In some cases a feeding-bottle with an extra large teat will meet the requirements, in others a spoon must be employed. The head should be thrown well back, and the milk dropped into the back of the pharynx. Badly- fed and half-starved children speedily improve, as a rule, under this line of treatment. There remains, however, a group of cases in which the careful administration of food does not effect an improvement; in such, the risks attendant upon operation must be carefully considered before it is undertaken. Hare-lip operations should not be performed during the period of dentition, while the presence of coryza, stomatitis, bronchial or gastro-intestinal catarrh, or congenital syphilis call for delay. It is a good rule to leave the child under observation for some days prior to operating. 3. Essentials for Success in Operating.—In all operations for hare-lip certain essentials have to be borne in mind, of which the following are the more important : — Healing should take place by primary union. This is to be attained by asepsis, and by the absence of all tension. The flattening of the nostril must be over- come by freely separating the adherent lip from the alveolus. The separation is best effected mainly, if not entirely, on the outer side of the cleft. By adopting this plan the central portion acts as a fixed point and helps to maintain the nostril in position. Sometimes the separation may have to be carried up to the infra-orbital foramen. The ala of the nose may have to be freed, and in bad cases it may be necessary to carry an incision around the nostril. In effecting the separation the knife or scissors must be kept close to the bone, and bleeding arrested by pressure. A satisfactoiy cicatrix must result from the operation. The edges of the cleft must be freely pared, the raw surface being as wide as possible, skin accurately sutured to skin, and mucous membrane to mucous membrane, so as to leave the red margin continuous; tension is to be avoided by free separation of the lip {vide supra). Faulty paring and careless suturing leave a thin and uneven cicatrix, which is prone to gradually stretch. A notch at the red margin is to be avoided by paring the edges in a concave manner, or by turning down or across flaps or a flap {vide Operations). The resulting projection (pro- labium) ought to be rather excessive to allow for subsequent contraction. The additional essentials for complicated cases are described under the various operations. Methods of Operating.—Space does not permit of a description of the many operations which have been practised for the relief of hare-lip. Only those which the writer has foimd to be most satisfactory and to meet the requirements of most cases will be described. The various procedures may be considered under the headings of those employed in cases of single and of double hare-lip and their varieties. The Instruments req^iired. — A sharp and narrow-bladed knife, two pairs of catch forceps, blunt-pointed scissors, arterj' forceps, periosteum elevators; strong forceps such as sequestrum forceps, with the blades covered by pieces of drainage-tubing; bone forceps, and a fine saw.