PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 560 peduncles on each side (Figs. 92 and 98). It consists of a central lobe, the upper part of Fig. 97.—Diagram of the arrangement of fibres and cells in the cortex of the cerebellum. G.L., Molecular layer ; N.L., nuclear layer ; P., Purkinje's cells sending out axons to the deeper ganglia. (After Eamon y Cajal.) which is the superior vermis (Fig. 96, S. v.), and two lateral lobes, each with a secondary small lobe, the flocculus. Its surface is raised into long ridge-like folds running in the horizontal plane, and is covered over with grey matter, the cortex. In the substance of the white matter forming the centre of the organ are several masses of grey matter on each side, the most important of which are— 1, the roof nucleus; and 2, the dentate nucleus (Fig. 96, R.N. and Dent.). The cortex may be divided into an outer somewhat homogeneous layer (the molecular layer, Fig. 97, G.L.) and an inner layer studded with cells (the nuclear layer, N.L.). Between these is a layer of large cells—the cells of Purkinje, P. By Golgi's method, the arrangement of fibres and cells in the cerebellar cortex has been shown to be as follows: — Fibres coming into the cortex from the white matter end either in synapses round cells in the nuclear layer, or proceed at once to the outer layer (Fig. 97). From the cells in the nuclear layer, processes pass to the outer layer and there form synapses with other cells. From these, processes pass to the cells of Purkinje, round which they arborise, and from Purkinje's cells the outgoing fibres of the cerebellum pass into the white matter, and so to the deeper ganglia, and to Deiters' nuclei (Fig. 96). Connections.—The cerebellum is con- nected (Fig. 98) :— i. With the Spinal Cord. a. Incoming Fibres.—1. The direct cerebellar tract (p. 556) passes up in the restiform body to end chiefly in the superior vermis. 2. The ascending antero-lateral tract (p. 557) passes to the cerebellum in the superior peduncle and ends in the superior vermis. 3. Fibres from the nuclei of the posterior columns of the same side (Fig. 93, p. 557) pass in the restiform body to the cerebellum. 4. Fibres from the vesti- bular root of the eighth nerve also pass to the cerebellum (Fig. 81, p. 548). b. Commissural Fibres. — Strong bands of fibres connect the inferior olive of one side with the dentate nucleus of the other. c. Outgoing Fibres.—Fibres pass from the superior vermis to the deep nuclei, and, from these, fibres run to Deiters' nuclei (Fig. 96), from which fibres pass down in the descending antero-lateral tract of the cord. ii. With the Cerebrum.—1. The fibres of the middle peduncles cross in the middle line embracing the medulla, and forming the pons Varolii, and become associated with cells from which fibres pass up in the lateral parts of the crura cerebri to the cerebral cortex (Fig. 99, CC, CC, p. 562). 2. The fibres of the superior Fig.98 —Connections of the cerebellum with the cerebro-spinal axis. (For explanation, see text.) peduncle, coming chiefly from the dentate nucleus and superior vermis, cross the middle line and end partly in the red nucleus of the