PARALYSIS 281 reasons for this limitation. Either from the peculiarity of the pathological process under- lying the disease, or from some property of the cerebral tissues of children to retain in part their vitality after injury, the post-mortem appearances of the brain in cases of infantile hemiplegia are strikingly different from those met with in adult hemiplegia. Again, local injury occurring during the period of active growth and before the taking up of function is complete, is more easily compensated by the taking up of a function by the uninjured parts. It must be pointed out, however, that while from such compensation functions of the infan- tile brain are better preserved in the destruction of limited areas by disease than are those of the adult brain, widespread lesions produce far more loss of function than occurs in the adult brain, great mental impairment resulting. Further, clinically, infantile hemiplegia is characterised by stunting of growth and often by athetosis on the paralysed side; by the absence of aphasia, and by the occurrence of recurring convulsions in many cases. Causation.—In a few cases infantile hemi- plegia is of intra-uterine origin, and some cases dating from birth are due to cerebral injuries received during parturition where labour is obstructed, and where instrumental delivery is necessary. In the majority of the cases—75 per cent— the onset is during the first three years of life, and in 60 per cent during the first two years. Females preponderate slightly over males. Neuropathic heredity and parental syphilis do not appear to be in causal relation with the disease. Most frequently the disease is not distinctly secondary to any known morbid influence. Less often it follows some acute disease, occur- ring either during the decline of the disease or within a fortnight of its termination. Scarlet fever, measles, and diarrhoea are the most common diseases associated with infantile hemi- plegia. Other diseases are broncho-pneumonia, diphtheria, typhoid fever, and mumps. It sometimes occurs during a paroxysm in whoop- ing-cough, presumably from cerebral haemor- rhage. It is almost unknown in connection with acute or chronic rheumatism. Clinical Aspect.—The onset is always acute, and is attended in more than half the cases with severe convulsion and loss of consciousness, which may last for days. The hemiplegia may be at once apparent when the child regains consciousness, or it may not show itself until several attacks of convulsions, separated per- haps by days, have occurred. It may then in- crease in severity with each attack until it becomes severe. Where initial convulsions are absent the child is seized with fever, vomits, and becomes prostrate or comatose, and on recovering, the hemiplegia is first noticed. In older children headache is usually complained of, and transient aphasia may occur if the hemiplegia be on the right side, but permanent aphasia does not occur in children under six years of age imless a very severe degree of mental impairment is associated. The hemiplegia, which is more common upon the right side, may be complete at first, and in children who can speak hemiansesthesia may sometimes be demonstrated, but it is rapidly transient. Soon the paralysis lessens, and the persistent condition, after the lapse of time, varies in different cases from an incapacitating degree of hemiplegia to complete recovery. Very rarely the hemiplegia is bilateral; it is then profound, and little improvement takes place. The ultimate condition depends upon the severity of the symptoms first manifest. In most cases the face shows little permanent paralysis, but there is often some overaction and involuntary grimacing upon the affected side. Both the face and the tongue may show athetosis. Not infrequently there is convergent strabismus. The arm is always more affected than the leg, and power is recovered most at the shoulder and least in the fingers. Post- hemiplegic perverse movements are frequently met with in the arm, rarely in the leg. Slow, spontaneous rhythmic movements (athetosis) occur chiefly at the peripheral joints of the limb, and are seen more typically in this disease than in any other condition. They are most marked when they occur in a completely para- lysed limb. When some volitional movement remains, athetosis may sometimes be controlled voluntarily. Short, sharp involuntary move- ments are of rare occurrence; they occur in limbs where considerable voluntary power has been regained, and affect chiefly the proximal parts of the limb (shoulder and hip). Such movements have been called post-hemiplegic chorea. As perverse movements also must be classed the slowness and clumsiness with which almost all the movements of the hemiplegic side are carried out. Where any considerable degree of hemiplegia persists the paralysed muscles soon become hypertonic, and rigidity sets in with con- tractions at the joints, and the assumption of peculiar positions of the limbs. In the upper limb the elbow is usually flexed ; the forearm pronated; the wrist flexed; the fingers flexed at the metacarpo-phalaugeal joints and extended at the other joints, and the thumb adducted— contracture being present at all these joints. In the lower limb the most consistent de- formity is dropping of the foot and pes cavus, the Z-shaped outline of the foot seen from the inner side being characteristic. There is some- times inversion of the foot. Some degree of kyphosis and scoliosis, with the concavity to the hemiplegic side in the dorso-lumbar region, is common. The pelvis is tilted down on the