OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 148 oblique (producing rotation to the left) ; yet this is actually what does occur. Except, per- haps, in the case of miner's nystagmus, we are quite ignorant what factors they are which decide the question in which precise direction nystagmus shall occur, whether vertical, rota- tory, or what not. In the case of miner's nystagmus, however, the symptom is no doubt due to persistent fatigue of certain definite muscles or of their nerve centres, and the normal action of these muscles gives us the key to the nystagmus. Suppose, for example, that in the course of his work the miner has to lie much upon his left side and look up (to his right), lateral nystagmus will be the result. The exception which I have noticed to the otherwise constant rule that nystagmus is con- jugate is in the case of the curious disease known as head-nodding in children, in which class of patients I have certainly seen the movements to be those of convergence and divergence, and of double contraction of superior recti followed by relaxation. Probably the cause of this curious symptom in a little Isnown disease may be a condition of irritation of the nuclei on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The rapidity of movements in nystagmus varies within very wide limits, as also does the extent of the excursion. Thus in one case one may have to do with a vibration so minute as to be hardly visible, except in the ophthalmo- scopic picture, and as rapid as sixty or one hundred, or even many more times per minute, while in another case the excursions may be large, extending from one canthus to the other, and only so frequent as ten in the minute. It may be laid down as a rule that vertical, and I think rotatory, nystagmus is always rapid, while lateral nystagmus may or may not be slow. It may also be said in general terms, though the rule must not be supposed to hold good for all cases, that nystagmus arising in childhood, and where vision is good or fairly good, tends to show great rapidity of movement, while nystagmus acquired in adult life, and where vision is nil, tends to be slow. The causes of nystagmus are twofold, since they are originally dependent either upon a visual or a motor anomaly. In regard to the visual causes we find considerable divergence, but we have either a cause operating very early in life, perhaps even in utero, and producing a defect of vision which may be severe, or may be or become quite slight, or (2) a cause operating later in life and associated with very grave defect or total loss of sight. Thus, under this heading, nystagmus may occur either because the patient has never had proper vision, or because he has had it and lost it. For its production in infancy, it is necessary that there has been some influence at work which has pre- vented the formation upon either macula of images which are more clear or more capable of accurate appreciation than those formed on other portions of the fundus. It would lead us too far from our present subject to discuss at how early a period an infant learns to direct the macula upon a bright object, but it is certainly a matter of not many weeks. The bearing of this point is that it is at an extremely early period that macular vision becomes superior to more peripheral vision, and if nystagmus is to be set up, the cause must be at work before this brief period has passed. No doubt, by that time the macula even is but poorly developed, and its superiority to the rest of the fundus but slight, yet the mere fact of fixation means that already the macula is not merely potentially, but actually, the most acutely perceptive point of the retina, and already the centres have been educated so to direct the globes that images may fall upon these two spots. If, therefore, a damaging, but not completely destroying lesion is to produce nystagmus, it must not merely be bilateral, but very early also. Such a lesion may take various forms; it may be a damage to the optic nerve, showing itself in later life as an atrophy, and probably being at the moment of the nature of a retrobulbar inflammation, or a choroido-retinitis leading to disturbance or destruction of the pigment layers at the centre ; or a rather high degree of congenital cataract; or an ophthalmia neonatorum, with ulceration of the cornea and consequent formation of opacities. There may be, in fact, a lesion which prevents either the formation or the appreciation of superior macular images, but whatever it be, the lesion must be early and bilateral; a uni- lateral lesion is not sufficient, it may cause squint, but will not give rise to nystagmus. It is probably to this class that the nystagmus of albinism belongs. From the visual side it requires a much more serious lesion to produce nystagmus in the adult than is sufficient in the child, and we see it best marked in such cases as the very bad varieties of retrobulbar neuritis and in atrophy. We never see nystagmus produced in adult life, for example, by even ripe cataract, nor by even fairly severe destructive ulceration of the cornea, unless vision is practically entirely lost. In this variety of nystagmus it is that one sees the best examples of the slow, "searching" nystag- mus, which sometimes takes a peculiar form. In this the lateral movement in one direction is saltatory, the eyes passing from near the one canthus to near the other in a series of jerks, and return in one long sweeping movement. The writer's impression is that the jerking movement is apt to be from left to right, while the sweeping movement is more usually from right to left; this fact, he is of opinion, may be related to the habit of movement acquired in reading. From the muscular point of view we have three principal varieties to deal with: miner's