OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 203 proper. There is a third form of chronic oopho- ritis where the stroma shrinks and becomes hard, whilst the folUcles disappear. This variety is often termed " cirrhosis of the ovary." Abscess of the ovary may occur after acute oophoritis, or set in during chronic inflammation. In sepsis after childbirth diffused or interstitial suppuration in the stroma sometimes takes place. The follicles, and even the corpora lutea may become the seat of abscess. In chronic oophoritis, the abscesses seem often due to secondary infection of the hypertrophied follicles, a change homologous to suppuration of a true cyst and to suppuration of a hydrosalpinx. Corpus luteum abscess may develop in the same manner ; but in the case of a corpus luteum, where mechanical rupture has occurred, it is easier to imderstand how infection follows if there be close adhesions to the bowel or to a pyosalpinx. Fraenkel reminds us that gonor- rhoeal infection of the tube makes infection of the follicle opening for ovulation quite possible. TuBO-ovARiAN Cysts are described under " Fallopian Tubes, Diseases of." One variety must be noticed here, that which results from the union of an adherent dilated tube to an ovary undergoing follicular hypertrophy. This form, which is of purely inflammatory origin, was distinguished independently by Schramm and Nielsen and by the present author. Syphilis.—Recent research has failed to prove that this disease produces any special lesion in the ovary. Records of gumma of the ovary, often quoted, are scanty and untrustworthy. A true syphilitic oophoritis has never been satis- factorily distinguished. Women infected with syphilis are liable to suffer from oophoritis due to other causes than syphilitic infection. Though the ovary has been found more than once infected with the parasite of actinomycosis, it seems never to be the primary seat of that disease. Precisely the same may be said of the ovary in leprosy, according to Babes' report, read in 1897 at Berlin before the International Leprosy Congress. Tubercle of the Ovary.—This organ does not offer a favourable nidus for tubercular infection, and hence in comparison with the tubes, or even the uterus, it is rarely infected in common tubercular diseases like phthisis. Dr. P. Dymock Turner found undoubted tubercular lesions in the internal genitals, in five out of twenty-seven consecutive necropsies on women who had died of phthisis in the Brompton Hospital. The ovary was involved in one case only, and in that instance the uterus and tubes were also tubercular. Orthmann denies that primary tubercle of the ovary has ever been detected. In von Franque's case the ovary was removed through the vagina and the patient recovered; the primary seat of disease might have been in another organ. Secondary tubercle of the ovary may be commoner than is generally suspected. In nearly 16 per cent of recorded cases of genital tuberculosis the ovary was reported to be infected on the strength of naked- eye appearances, but recent reliable statistics raise the percentage to 34 (Orthmann). The peritoneum or Fallopian tvibe is almost ex- clusively the source of infection. Tubercle of the ovary may manifest itself as miliary or caseous deposit in the stroma or on the surface of the organ; but the most important form is the tubercular abscess of the ovary containing characteristic pus. As in tubercle elsewhere, bacteriological evidence may be easy or difficult to obtain. Tubercular tubo- ovarian abscess has been reported, but the sovirces of fallacy noted in " Fallopian Tubes, Diseases of," should be remembered; in other words, a large tubercular pyosalpinx may have been taken for a tubo-ovarian cyst. Symptoms.—Pelvic pain and swelling and evidence of suppuration have been recorded in cases of this disease. Diagnosis is hardly possible, for when these symptoms are observed tubercular pyosalpinx is much more probable. Local treatment is not satisfactory. It has been noticed that after simple incision through the vagina the discharge has been very obstinate, leaving a fistulous track. Abdominal section may cause rapid dissemination of tubercle. Therapeutics are safer than surgery in tuber- cular ovarian disease. Tumours of the Ovary are cystic or solid. The former are more specially associated with that organ, and their pathology is somewhat complicated. Hence, to avoid confusion, their histogenesis will be considered before the characters of the fully - developed cyst, as known to the surgeon, are described. Histogenesis of Common Type of Ovarian Cyst.—The " glandular cystoma ovarii," the "cystadenoma pseudomucinosum," or common ovarian cyst, undoubtedly arises from structures in the oophoron or cortex of the ovar}', and bears a close resemblance to an adenoma in other parts of the body. A good deal is known about the cellular elements on the surface of the foetal ovary, and about the histology of the Graafian follicle from foetal life to old age. Nevertheless, the precise histogenesis of this well- known morbid growth has not been determined to the satisfaction of all pathologists. The histology of the primary, the growing, and the ripe Graafian follicle is described in the article on " Generation, Female Organs of." The epithelial lining never assumes the chai'acter of the rows of large columnar cells which line the inner wall of an ovarian cyst. Some pathologists still trace this cyst to the super- ficial epithelium of the ovary, normally cylin- drical—a strong point of evidence in favour of their theory, as the epithelium of the cyst is of the same type. The superficial columnar epithelium, according to their theory, becomes