PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 426 caused by several conditions other than peri- tonitis, e.g. in acute intestinal catarrh (entero- colitis), in which diarrhoea and intermittent colic are the chief symptoms. The diagnosis from intestinal obstruction may be quite impos- sible for the first two days, and sometimes throughout the disease. This point is not of much importance, as in either case the siirgeon would operate without delay. Sometimes the onset of an acute pleuro-pneumonia may give rise to referred tenderness in the abdomen highly suggestive of commencing peritonitis. There is a condition known as hysterical peritonitis met with on the Continent more frequently than in this country. There are certain rare conditions, such as acute hcemorrhagic pancreatitis, or a ruptured tubal pregnancy. One may admit at once that the importance of accurate diagnosis in acute inflammation of the abdomen is of minor importance. In almost all cases the surgeon has very little doubt that the condition is one for which an exploratory incision is definitely called for. In the early stage of any disease resembling peritonitis an exploratory incision would do the patient but little harm, and if the surgeon waits until his diagnosis is very certain the hopes of saving the patient become enormously lessened. The difficult question that so often arises, namely, whether the inflammation is general or local, matters but little at the present day ; in both conditions early operation is indicated. Treatment. — Indications for Operation.— With the few exceptions that make the rule it is admitted on all sides that if an acute general peritonitis becomes once established, and is allowed to run its course without surgical inter- ference, the termination is always a fatal one. The question of the indications for operation in a case of acute general peritonitis has passed through a rapid series of changes during the past ten years. At first the hesitation in diagnosis between general and local peritonitis was allowed to postpone an operation until either it was too late to save the patient if the case developed into general peritonitis, or it resolved itself simply into a question of opening a localised abscess at the end of a week or ten days. Owing to the extreme difficulty in mak- ing sure whether the trouble is going to remain localised or not, surgeons are beginning more and more to agree that operative interference should be undertaken as soon as the diagnosis of peritonitis is made, whatever it is thought might be the extent of the inflammation. I can see no way out of the difficulty, excepting to act on a uniform plan, and always to operate as soon as the diagnosis of peritonitis is made, providing the general condition of the patient justifies the procedure. It is extremely difficult to gauge the resist- ing power of a patient with acute general jjeritonitis. Sometimes a case apparently hope- less in every respect, with signs of extreme poisoning, with abundance of pus, and with distended gut, recovers rapidly after a judicious laparotomy. On the other hand, a patient with excellent pulse, and no grave signs that can be gauged, will die a short time after the operation. Of course it is most important to ascertain what drugs the patient has been having since the commencement of the illness—opium and mor- phine establish a false standard of strength ; but this important question will be dealt with at some length later on. Successful results in the operative treatment of this disease depend to an enormous extent upon the judgment of the operator, who has to consider, first of all, whether a thorough attempt can be made to deal with the case with a general an£esthetic; in which event laparotomy, flushing, and drain- age of the peritoneal cavity must be promptly carried out. But if he is of opinion that the patient cannot stand this ordeal, it may be possible to anaesthetise the patient for a short time, so that an abdominal section can be rapidly performed, and a drainage-tube with gauze packing introduced. In very bad cases, where a general anaesthetic is obviously quite out of the question, the surgeon must then attempt to do what is necessary with a local anaesthetic. In my experience, these cases do far better than one anticipates. Even with acute lobar pneumonia I have found it possible to remove a suppurating ovary in a case of acute general peritonitis, with recovery of the patient. Indeed, whenever there is marked pulmonary infection in cases of acute general peritonitis it is eminently desirable to attempt, at any rate, to deal with the case with local anaesthesia. If the patient cannot stand the pain, chloroform can then be given. It is the parietal peritoneum that is so very tender, and I have found that a per cent solution of cocaine very rapidly effects anaesthesia over a large area. The details of these operative procedures may be described under the following three headings:— 1. Laparotomy, flushing, and drainage. 2. Rapid laparotomy with drainage. 3. Laparotomy with local ana3sthesia. 1. Laparotomy, Flushing, and Drainage.— The patient being under the influence of chloroform, a free incision is made in the middle line below the umbilicus. There is a consider- able diversity of opinion amongst surgeons concerning the best anaesthetic for abdominal work. From a surgeon's point of view alone it seems to the writer that chloroform is the best, both for the rapid and comfortable per- formance of the operation and for the absence of the pulmonary disturbance so common with ether. From the anaesthetist's point of view, which is concerned solely with the patient's safety during the operation, the consensus of