PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 566 set of neurons by their gemmules so as to establish definite paths, the want of co-ordinate relationship established by the general expansion would explain the disappearance of the definite sensations which constitute consciousness. It is manifest that the range of consciousness must necessarily be wider where the stored impressions are most abundant, and where the present stimulus most readily calls into action these previous lines of cerebral activity. The storage of impressions is the basis of memory. The power of associating these stored impres- sions with the present stimulus is the basis of recollection. It is the implication of conscious- ness in this part of brain action which is the basis of mental activity. How far the mental action is a mere accompaniment of the physical changes, and how far it can react upon them, is a question which cannot be discussed here. But the study of the insane seems to point to the conclusion that the individual may do certain things and have certain ideas as concomitants of faulty brain action, rather than that his actions are a result of the modified ideas. 2. Time of Cerebral Action. — The cerebral mechanism takes a very appreciable time to act, and the time varies with the complexity of the action and with the condition of the nervous apparatus. Of the time between the presentation of a flash of light to the eye or a touch to the skin and a signal made when it is perceived by the person acted upon, part is occupied by the passage of the nerve impulses up and down the nerves and in the latent period of muscle action ; but a varying period of something over one- tenth of a second remains, representing the time occupied in the cerebral action. If the observation be complicated by re- quiring a di»criminatio7i to be made between different stimuli, the reaction time is longer, and, the less habitual the differentiation, the longer will the reaction time be. Thus in one accustomed to deal with figures, the discrimina- tion of a series of these is more rapidly carried out than in one unaccustomed to do so. Prolonged action of the nerve centres soon leads to a prolongation of the reaction time, and the same thing is produced by the action of alcohol, chloroform, and other poisons. 3. Fatigue of Cerebral Mechanism. — This naturally leads to the consideration of fatigue of the cerebral mechanism. The way in which, as a result of poisons, the definite co-relationship of certain sets of neurons with certain other sets is probably abolished by the generalised expansion of the gemmules of the dendrites has been already dealt with. In all probability the same thing occurs in fatigue, and by interrupt- ing the definite chain of action allows rest and recovery to supervene. But continued action may further lead to well-marked changes in the cell protoplasm of the neurons. The Nissl's granules diminish, and the nucleus shrivels and becomes poorer in chromatin. In all reflex action, whether spinal or cerebral, it is the central part of the mechanism which first becomes fatigued. If, by reflex excitation of the central nervous system of a frog, muscular movements are caused for some time, the stimulation ultimately fails to act; but, if the nerves going to the muscles are stimulated, the muscles at once respond, showing that the central mechanism has given out before the peripheral structures. Fatigue of the central nervous system is manifest both upon the receiving and reacting mechanism ; upon the receiving, on the physical side by prolongation of the reaction period, and on the metaphysical side by diminished power of attention. Upon the reacting side it is shown by lessened power of muscular contraction. {See also p. 508.) 4. Sleep.—Fatigue of the cerebral mechanism is closely connected with sleep. As the result of fatigue, external stimuli produce less and less effect, and thus the changes which are the physical basis of consciousness become less and less marked. At the same time, by artificial means stimuli are usually excluded as far as possible. Absence of light, of noise, and of tactile and thermal stimuli all conduce to sleep. Consciousness fades away, and, as the cerebral activity diminishes, the arterioles throughout the body dilate, and the arterial blood pressure falls, and thus less blood is sent to the brain, and the organ becomes more bloodless. The eyelids close, the eyeballs turn upwards, the pupils contract, and the voluntary muscles relax. The depth of sleep may be measured by the strength of the stimuli required to overcome it; and it has been found that usually it is deepest at about the end of an hour, and that it then rapidly becomes more and more shallow, until, as the result of some stimulus, or when the brain has regained its normal condition, it terminates. In the later hours of sleep the consciousness may be temporarily aroused with- out the other conditions of sleep disappearing, and as a result of this dreams may ensue. Or, on the other hand, without consciousness being necessarily restored, stimuli may lead to muscular responses of a perfectly definite and purposive character, and to such phenomena as sleep- walking. Hypnosis is a condition in some respects allied to sleep. It may be produced in many individuals by powerfully arresting the attention, and is probably due to a removal of the influence of the higher centres over the lower. When the condition is produced, the respirations and pulse become quickened, the pupils expand, and the sensitiveness of the neuro-muscular mechanism is so increased that merely stroking