18 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS arsenic in the urine by Reinsch's test when only three minims of liquor arsenicalis were being taken three times a day.) It may also be detected in some cases in the hair, nails, and desquamating epidermis. Gastro-intestinal symptoms, or conjunctivitis at the onset, or the presence of pigmentation of the skin or herpes zoster, may indicate the diagnosis. The ex- amination of food or beverages for arsenic may be necessary in doubtful cases. The prognosis is favourable. Recovery usu- ally occurs if the entrance of arsenic into the system is stopped. Secondary contraction of the flexor muscles of the hands and feet may cause troublesome deformities. Pathological Aumtomy.—In the few cases on record in which microscopical examination of the nervous system has been made, the changes found have consisted of a parenchymatous neu- I'itis of the peripheral nerves, with atrophy of nerve-cells and fine nerve-fibres in the anterior horns of grey matter. In one case there was also degeneration in the columns of GoU. Epidemic of Peripheral Neuritis due to Beer containing Arsenic.—During the latter half of 1900 a number of medical men in Manchester noted a great increase in the cases of peripheral neuritis in their practices. Ap- parently about the same time several medical men formed the opinion that probably some unusual toxic substance was present in Man- chester beer. But to Dr. E. S. Reynolds the credit is due of first suggesting that the beer contained arsenic, and of first detecting the presence of arsenic in it. Many cases coming under the care of Dr. Reynolds at the Man- chester Union Infirmary presented pigmentation and other affections of the skin suggestive of arsenical poisoning. In the practices of other medical men these associated skin aff'ections were absent or much less frequent. In 1888 an epidemic occurred at Hy^res owing to white arsenic being put into wine instead of gypsum. Dr. Reynolds concluded that in Manchester and district there was a widespread and unusual epidemic of peripheral neuritis " associated with running of the eyes and nose (in many cases), and marked lesions of the skin," that the affec- tion was only met with in drinkers of beer and porter, and that the cases differed from ordinary "alcoholic" paralysis by the "greater amount of sensory and vaso-motor disturbance, and especially in the presence of the peculiar skin lesions which are not usually present in alco- holic paralysis." He attributed the epidemic to the arsenic which he had found to be present in the beer. The presence of a small quantity of arsenic in beer was at once confirmed by others; it was found also in stout and ale. Through investiga- tions carried out by Professor D^lepine, Dr. Coutts, Mr. Tattersall, and Professor Dixon, the arsenical contamination was shown to be caused by the use of sulphuric acid, containing arsensic as an impurity, in the preparation of the glucose and invert sugar used in the brew- ing of the cheaper kinds of beer. One specimen of sulphuric acid contained as much as 14 per cent of arsenic (estimated as arsenious oxide); the glucose, 0"8 parts per 1000 ; and the invert sugar, 0'25 per 1000. Various specimens of beer were found to contain from 0'14 to 0 3 grains per gallon; a few examined later by other chemists were found to contain a larger amouni:—up to 1 grain per gallon. It was found that only the glucose made by one firm of sugar manufacturers was contaminated. As this firm supplied a large number of breweries in the north of England with the glucose used in brewing, the contamination of most of the beer was explained. In a few specimens of arsenical beer the contamination was traced to arsenic in the malt. The following cases of neuritis from arsenical beer may be mentioned as examples of the forms met with: — 1. Female, aged thirty.—For five years had taken one kind of stout and very rarely any other form of alcoholic beverage. Great excess denied. Making allowance for under-estimation, it is probable that amount was much less than four pints daily. Onset of illness with con- junctivitis ; it was also noted that the stout caused diarrhoea. Nervous systems similar to those of alcoholic neuritis. Legs and arms paralysed; dropped feet and dropped wrist; inability to walk ; absent knee-jerks ; muscular hyperalgesia, etc. On examination of specimens of the kind of stout taken, the writer found distinct evidence of arsenic by Reinsch's test. 2. Male, slight form.—Severe gnawing pains in legs and arms ; great tenderness of muscles ; inability to walk owing to pains in feet and legs ; knee-jerks present; no ansesthesia; no true paralysis; no pigmentation; history of beer drinking (great excess). On the first examination of the urine there was evidence of a small quantity of arsenic by Reinsch's test. Rapid recovery by rest in bed and abstinence from beer. 3. Female. — Neuritic symptoms like those of alcoholic neuritis. Bronzed diffused pigmen- tation, chiefly on chest. Symptomatology. — In some cases gastro- intestinal symptoms—vomiting and diarrhoea— were noticed at the onset of the illness ; in other cases, conjunctivitis. But usually these symp- toms were absent or indefinite. In many cases there was a condition of the feet resembling erythromelalgia. The soles of the feet were often very red, tender, and painful, and bathed in perspiration ; sometimes the palms of the hands were affected in the same way. Herpes zoster (unilateral) was present in a small pro- portion of the cases. Erythema, diffused or circumscribed, and hyperidrosis were often noted.