422 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL I have had three opportunities of thoroughly exploring the peritoneal cavity in such cases, having operated under the mistaken diagnosis of a perforated gastric ulcer in two of them, and in the third no diagnosis could be made. In all three cases the symptoms pointed strongly to general peritonitis, but it was found that the peritoneum showed no sign whatever of in- flammation. All three cases developed appen- dicular abscesses within a week. The explana- tion of this phenomenon will be found later on. Two kinds of cases may be taken as types of a general peritonitis, viz., that following opera- tions upon the abdomen, and that following an appendicitis where the micro-organisms get through the wall of the appendix without necessarily an actual perforation of the wall of the tube taking place—in other words, there may be a bacterial perforation only. At the present day the former cases are happily be- coming more and more uncommon, and there- fore it will be better for us to take for our description a case where the trouble has started in the appendix without a sudden perforation of that organ, a condition which is the most common cause of general peritonitis. There are the very acute cases before referred to, in which the patient appears to be suffering from profound shock and septic poisoning. In a third group of cases the symptoms of peritonitis are slight compared with the mischief that is found at the operation or autopsy; these cases are termed latent or masked peritonitis. In dealing with a typical case of acute peritonitis it will be best to describe fairly briefly the symptoms and course of the disease, and then to consider each important symptom in detail. A Typical Case of Acute Peritonitis.— The patient begins to feel unwell, and within an hour or two he complains of cold, and may even shiver; not uncommonly there may be an actual rigor ushering in the symptoms. In nearly all cases the first definite symptom that makes its appearance is pai7i which, though very constant in its presence, is very variable in its character and in its intensity. When the pain is slight it generally has a curious tendency to disturb and worry the patient out of all proportion to its intensity, and this confers upon the face a somewhat characteristic expression of anxiety. On the other hand, the actual inten- sity of the pain may be so great that it is quite alarming both to the patient and his friends. At first the pain is referred as a rule to the whole of the abdomen, but later on it is generally localised to the region of the um- bilicus. As a rule the abdomen is rigid, and the shin of the whole or of a part of the abdomen is markedly hypercesthetic. In order to diminish the abdominal tension as much as possible the patient lies on his back with the thighs flexed and the shoulders raised. When the costal respiration is nuich hampered the arms are often raised above the head, so as to bring into action the extraordinary muscles of respiration. Owing to this rigidity of the abdominal muscles and to the abdominal dis- tension the respirations become more and more costal in type. The pulse is increased in frequency, is of high tension and small; this high tension is characteristic, and seems to be one of the early effects of the septic poisoning upon the vaso-motor system. This small yet high tension pulse is so characteristic that it has gained for itself the term wiry. This must not be confused with the pulse of a later stage, which is often termed thready, owing to its low tension and small volume. The temperature rises rather rapidly to 103° or 104°, and after this initial rise it generally falls a little, main- taining an average of about 101 "5°. After the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours the hard and somewhat retracted abdomen begins to dis- tend, and the percussion note becomes more and more resonant and finally tympanitic. The dis- tension rapidly increases, so that the abdomen becomes blown out and tense. Vomiting, which usually sets in about the same time as the pain, is a prominent feature of the disease. At first the ordinary stomach contents are brought up, when the vomit is yellow, being distinctly bile- stained, and this is followed by a characteristic green liquid, which is finally succeeded by a brownish-black one having an offensive odour distinctly fsecal in character. At the commence- ment of the inflammation the bowels may be loose, but as soon as the abdomen distends constipation sets in. The act of mictu7-ition is often frequent at first, and later on there is usually retention, especially if the origin of the trouble is in the appendix or in the pelvic organs. The urine is small in quantity and high coloured, usually containing abundance of indican. There is usually free fluid, causing dulness in the flanks, which may shift on rotating the patient. When all the symptoms are fully developed the aspect of the patient becomes very character- istic ; so well was it described by Hippocrates, that is is often termed the " facies hippocratica," viz., " sharp nose, sunken eyeballs and hollow temples, the ears cold and pinched, with their lobules turned outwards; the skin of the fore- head is rough, puffy, and dry; the colour of the whole face being brown black, livid, or leaden"; this excellent description requires modification in the last statement only, where we must remember that the face described be- longed in all probability to the Oriental type. This typical case of acute peritonitis usually lasts from five to ten days, nearly all the symp- toms increasing in severity until the fatal end, which is usually heralded by the skin of the face and hands becoming cold and clammy, and tinged with a dark blue colour. Some of the more important Symptoms in Detail.—The Onset.—In most cases the onset