305 PARALYSIS the mouth remains open, the lips are everted, and the saliva is constantly dribbling from the mouth, where it accumulates in excessive amount owing to the difficulty there is in swallowing it. The power of speech may be entirely lost, so that a few grunts may be all that is possible, or the patient may be able to phonate a few vowels, or mumble a word or two very slowly in a monotonous way. The tongue lies on the floor of the mouth, shrivelled up and incapable of the slightest movement, and the soft palate is pendulous and immobile, or it flaps to and fro with each act of respiration, while thick viscid saliva may cling to the fauces in festoons. By the time this stage is reached there is commonly little or no power of mastication, and the act of swallowing is exceedingly difficult and attended with considerable danger, in that the larynx cannot be drawn up under the epi- glottis, whose muscles are also weak, as are the constrictors of the pharynx; thus food readily passes into the larynx and produces choking, and in that there is little power of eff'ective cough, suffocation or inhalation pneumonia may be induced. Reflex action of the palate is abolished or is very feeble, so that when the palate is touched it either does not move at all or is only feebly raised, and the pharyngeal reflex is also abo- lished, so that tickling the fauces fails to induce retching. The tendon-jerks are not increased in the cases of bulbar paralysis unaccompanied by lateral sclerosis, nor in the cases in which, without aff"ection of the lateral columns of the cord, the neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord are degenerated in conjunction with those of the nuclei in the medulla oblon- gata. When the bulbar paralysis forms part of the clinical picture of the form of the aff'ection in which there is lateral sclerosis, and which is known as "amyotrophic lateral sclerosis," then it is that the tendon-jerks are increased. In such cases a jaw-jerk, or even jaw clonus may be present, the arm-jerks are increased, as are the knee-jerks, and ankle clonus can be elicited. So, too, the toes are extended instead of being flexed when the plantar reflex is elicited. Diagnosis.—The conditions from which chronic spinal muscular atrophy and bulbar paralysis have to be distinguished diff"er somewhat accord- ing to the form that the disease assumes. Myopathy. — When the indications suggest progressive muscular atrophy it is of primary importance to exclude the muscular atrophies of myopathic origin, and attention to the following points usually makes this task com- paratively easy:—The absence of a hereditary history of the disease, the more advanced age at which the manifestations appear, the presence of bulbar symptoms, fibrillary tremors in the muscles, and evidence of the reaction of degen- eration on electrical stimulation, all suppoi't VOL. VII the diagnosis of the spinal cord affection. The combination in which the muscles are atrophied is, moreover, diff'erent in the two varieties of disease, for while the small muscles of the hands commonly suffer in the spinal cord aff'ection, they visually escape in the myopathies, and although in both forms of disease the muscles about the shoulder girdle may be attacked, it is noteworthy that the deltoid frequently suff"ers in the former class while it usually escapes atrophy in the myopathies. So, too, the trapezius may atrophy throughout its whole extent in the latter class of aifection, but its upper portion escapes to the very end, as a rule, in the spinal cord disease. Then, again, atrophy of the lower half of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi is highly character- istic of one form of myopathy; whereas these muscles are rarely aiTected when the atrophy is due to changes in the spinal cord. The detection of enlargememt of any muscles negatives the possibility that the muscular atrophy is of spinal origin. In addition to the points of distinction that have already been noted, the presence of spasticity and exaggeration of the tendon-jerks serve to distinguish amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in that these phenomena never occur in the myopathies. Moreover, although the face is affected in the facio-scapulo-humeral form of idiopathic muscular atrophy, the tongue, palate, and larynx never become involved, so that bulbar paralysis is readily distinguished from this form of myopathy. Subacute Poliomyelitis.—The onset is more rapid, paralysis as a rule precedes atrophy of the muscles, there is usually some tendency to recovery, and the muscles that are atrophied are picked out at random, and not in the definite order that obtains in progressive mus- cular atrophy. There is another form of muscular atrophy that is usually subacute in onset, in which some muscles of the hands and arms are picked out, while others escape in a manner that suggests affection of the spinal cord, but whose pathology is as yet uncertain. These cases are further distinguished from progressive muscular atrophy owing to the fact that pain is commonly an early symptom, and it may be possible to detect some ansesthesia. Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis differs from the chronic affection of the anterior horns in the fact that the onset is sudden and attended with rise of temperatui'e. The paralysis that is at first present exceeds that which subsequently persists, the muscular atrophy follows on the paralysis, and only some of the muscles that are at first disabled become wasted, and the reaction of degeneration is more pronounced in them than when the muscular atrophj'^ is due to the chx-onic degenerative disease. Moreover, children are usually attacked, whereas it is 20