PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 526 B. Brain Arcs in Reflex Action.—It is obviously of importance to an animal that its anterior end, which in progression first comes into relationship with any change in its sur- roundings, and in which is situated the mouth, by which it feeds and therefore exists, should be well provided with receptors, so that through them appropriate reactions of the whole body to changes in the conditions may be produced. Hence it is in connection with the head that the most complex development of extero-ceptive receptors (see p. 528) occurs. Some of them, as those in connection with the spinal cord, respond to stimuli in close proximity, e.g. the sensitive tactile whiskers of the cat, and the receptors in the mouth, which produce diiferent reactions to nocuous and non-nocuous stimuli. But in addition to these, others are developed which are acted upon by stimuli coming from a distance, e.g. light, sound, volatile chemical substances, and these may be called distance receptors. Their great importance is that by their action the body is prepared for the more immediate contact with the external condition, and is adjusted either to escape nocuous agencies or to seize nutritive material, e.g. in the capture of prey. So impoi'tant is the action of these distance receptors in the higher animals, that a mass of nerve tissue, the cerebrum, is developed to bring about the reaction of the head and body generally to these stimuli. In order that these reactions to the distance re- ceptors may be properly co-ordinated with the responses to the non-distance receptors, such as the organs of touch, these latter are closely linked to the cerebrum by definite bands of nerve fibres (Fig. 41). Still further to secure the appropriate and co-ordinated action of the head and body to these distance stimuli, a special proprio-ceptive mechanism is developed in the head, a mechanism which is called into play by movements of the head, and which thus assists in adjusting the position of the head and body, just as the action of the proprio-ceptive structures in muscles assist in adjusting the position of the limbs {see p. 528). This mechanism is developed from the internal ear, and may be termed the labyrinthine receptor mechanism (see p. 548). It is the dominant adjusting or balancing mechanism in the body, and it exercises a con- stant control over the proprio-ceptive mechanism connected with the cord. So much is this the case that its destruction leads to inability to co-ordinate the movements of the eyes, head and limbs, and to loss of muscular tone. This is seen in the "knock-out" blow on the jaw, which foi'ces the condyles against the base of the skull, and by deranging the action of the labyrinth leads to a sudden and absolute loss of muscular tone. Just as the cerebrum is developed in connec- tion with the distance receptors of the head, so the cerebellum is developed in connection with the labyrinthine receptor mechanism. And just as the non-distance receptors of the cord are connected up with the cerebrum, so the proprio- ceptive mechanism of the cord is connected with the cerebellum. Thus it is that in the higher animals the head receptors, and the brain which is developed in connection with them, dominate the cord and control the various spinal reflexes. So far, the reactions of the neuro-muscular mechanism have been considered simply as an afl:air of reflexes. But the activity of the cerebrum is accompanied by changes in con- sciousness, and it is assumed by some that the state of consciousness is the determining factor in the result, and hence such actions have been called voluntary. But since in such conditions as sleep-walking and hypnosis the most com- plex and selective actions are performed without the intervention of consciousness, it must be admitted that this metaphysical phenomenon is not an integral part of the response of the nervous system. On the other hand, we know that the character of the reaction to any stimulus is largely depen- dent upon the state of the nervous centres. Just as a touch produces a different effect in a frog poisoned with strychnine and in one under the influence of bromide of potassium, so a sudden noise may produce a totally different reaction upon a person with a fatigued brain or a brain poisoned by alcohol, and upon one with the brain in a good state of nutrition. Not only does the temporary state of nutrition thus modify the result of a stimulus, but the paths of action previously opened and defined through the centres also have a marked in- fluence. (1) These paths may have been formed in past generations and inherited from the parents. In young fowls, as soon as they are hatched, the acts of walking and of pecking are at once performed, and in many families par- ticular gestures or expressions follow certain modes of stimulation in many different indivi- duals without the consciousness of the person being involved. They are inherited cerebral reflexes. (2) Paths may also have been de- veloped in the individual as the result of previous activities of the nervous mechanism. For, if a given action has once followed a given stimulus, it always tends to follow it again. This, in fact, is the basis of all rational education —to open up paths in the nervous system by which the most suitable response may be made to any given stimulus, and to prevent the for- mation of paths by which inappropriate reaction may be produced. It is very important to recognise clearly the influence of these factors upon the conduct of the individual—the nutrition of the brain at any moment, and the inherited and acquired tendencies in particular directions—since various