229 PALATE from that side. The apex of the flap reaches nearly as far forwards as the incisor teeth; its base is left attached and extends from close to the inner border of the alveolus at the last molar tooth inwards to the edge of the soft palate, near to its anterior attachment. The flap is made by beginning the incision opposite and close to the last molar tooth, carrying it forwards parallel and just internal to the teeth as far as the apex, and then backwards along the edge of the cleft about one-eighth of an inch external to its margin to the line of the base. The flap, along with the periosteum, is then raised by means of a raspatory. 2. A small flap is then marked out on the other side by an incision beginning at the level of the anterior part of the cleft and carried backwards to the junction of the hard and soft palate at least one-sixth of an inch external to the margin of the cleft. At its anterior and posterior extremities this incision should be carried inwards to the margin of the cleft. A muco-periosteal flap is now detached and turned inwards on its base, which is formed by the tissue at the edge of the cleft, and fixed to the mucous membrane on the opposite side of the cleft by two or three catgut sutures. 3. The large flap is now carried across the cleft, and the anterior parts of its inner margin attached by silver wire or silkworm-gut sutures to outer border of the incision upon the other side of the palate. If there be difiiculty in bringing the large flap across the cleft it may be necessary to detach its base more freely from the soft parts which connect it with the hard palate. The two flaps may be further united by horse-hair sutures. Usually the pressure of the tongue suffices to keep them in position. The Mechanical Treatment of Cleft Palate.—As already stated, the treatment of a congenital cleft in the palate by surgical interference is preferable to that by mechanical means. The obturator, as a rule, cannot be fitted until the habit of defective speech has been fully formed, and as the patient grows frequent renewal is necessary. In certain cases, however, it is the only method of treatment. In congenital cleft the mechanical treatment is necessary where the gap is very wide and the soft parts are insufficient to close it, where the soft palate is rudimentary, where the os incisi- vum has been removed and a wide gap exists in front, where operative interference has left a shrunken and deformed palate, and in some cases where the patient has reached adult life. In acquired conditions mechanical treatment is called for in certain cases of perforation of the palate from traumatism or syphilis, or where a portion of the upper jaw has been removed. It is unnecessary to enter into a description of these mechanical appliances. They may be obturators or artificial vela, or both, and are to be fitted by a skilled dentist. The following essential is worthy of attention. An obturator ought to be a plate of vulcanite or gold fitted to the teeth and kept in position by suction. It should never be in the form of a plug, which, by its pressure, causes the opening to become larger. An artificial velum consists of an obturator with a movable portion attached to it to take the place of the soft palate. In congenital cases, similar instructions as regards articulation have to be given to those already described. Injuries op the Palate Mode of Production.—The palate may be injured in many ways : from very hot liquids, from corrosives or caustics, from fish or meat bones ; from a fall with a toy, stick, or pipe-stem in the mouth ; or from gun-shot wounds, usually of suicidal intent. Effects.—These vary according to the nature of the traumatic agent, the part affected, and the degree of sepsis. A hsematoma may arise, and sometimes be followed by abscess. Slough- ing may take place and cicatricial contraction of the soft palate ensue. The hard palate may necrose. The soft palate may be merely punctured, or larger wounds may penetrate its entire thickness. Injuries of the hard palate., when extensive, are frequently due to gunshot wounds ; in these injuries the nose and pharynx will also be involved. If the injury be not fatal, a large perforation generally results. Necrosis may occur. Treatment.—Foreign bodies may have to be removed. Bleeding, if severe, is to be controlled by ice and pressure. The mouth must be kept as clean as possible by the use of boric lotion, sanitas, or a spray of peroxide of hydrogen, and washed out after food. Punctured wounds of the soft palate heal without deformity. Large wounds must be sutured. When the hard palate is involved, any portion of bone and mucous membrane not entirely detached must be retained and the latter fixed in position by sutures. Gaps in the soft palate and perforations of the hard may have to be dealt with by appro- priate measures, such as plastic operations, usvially on the principle of Davies Colley's. An obturator is often necessary. Diseases of the Palate 1. Inflammation.—Acute. — The soft palate may be involved in any of the acute affections which attack the tonsil and pharynx {<i.v.). Sloughing or suppurative periostitis and ne-