105 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES fore any relief can be obtained. Orbital com- plications seldom arise in connection with acute antral suppuration: they are evidenced by severe pain in the eye, displacement of the globe, and the formation of pus in the surround- ing cellular tissue. If the nose be examined by anterior rhino- scopy in a case of this kind, the mucous lining on the affected side is probably found red and swollen, and the inferior turbinated body turgescent. Inspection of the middle meatus may reveal a drop of pus in that situation, in- creasing in quantity after the head has been inclined forwards. Transillumination is of con- siderable diagnostic value: if opacity of the cheek and absence of the subjective light sensa- tion in the eye of the affected side exist in conjunction with the symptoms and signs enumerated, the diagnosis of antral suppuration is almost certain. In connection with illumina- tion of the antrum in these cases, it may be pointed out, that the diagnosis of acute perio- stitis of the upper jaw, due to a diseased tooth and producing symptoms somewhat resembling those of antral suppuration, may be aided by this test. In this condition the patient may experience a subjective sensation of light in both eyes, and inspection of the interior of the nose will reveal an absence of the objective signs above described. Should the ostium maxillare be blocked in antral suppuration, a differential diagnosis might still prove uncertain and necessitate an exploratory puncture. Schmiegelow, Ropke, and others have re- ported a few cases of acute inflammation of the superior maxillary bone occurring in infants a few weeks after birth. The symptoms thus presented are severe. The onset of the illness is sudden and is ushered in with fever, accom- panied by redness and swelling of the cheek and eyelids, followed by discharge of pus into the nose and mouth, or on to the face through one or more openings. Necrosis of part or even of the whole of the upper jaw-bone may occur, numerous small sequestra becoming detached. These cases present the signs of acute osteo- myelitis of the ixpper jaw-bone, as Schmiegelow first pointed out, a condition which some writers, however, have described as acute sup- puration in the antrum. Neither on anatomi- cal nor on clinical grounds can this latter definition be regarded as correct. (b) The Frontal Sinus.—Acute inflammation of the lining membrane of this cavity is ushered in by symptoms which closely resemble those described in connection with the antrum. Fever and general malaise are accompanied by intense frontal headache and a feeling of weight and oppression above the eye, and sometimes a sensation of fulness behind it. Percussion immediately above the inner third of the supra- orbital margin on the suspected side elicits tenderness, a symptom, however, which is rendered much more acute when the floor of the sinus is pressed vipon. Redness and swelling of the skin over the cavity, along with slight oedema of the upper eyelid, may afford further evidence of some deep-seated affection. In the absence of external signs, or when the patient is seen before there has been any nasal discharge, the case may easily be mistaken for one of severe neuralgia. A sudden discharge of pus into the nose is followed by abatement of the symptoms, and the patient feels better. Anterior rhino- scopy may reveal a condition very similar to what is seen when the antrum is affected. Some observers obtain considerable assistance in acute cases from transillumination of the frontal sinus, finding the aifected cavity opaque or considerably darker than on the opposite side. If, in conjunction with these phenomena, the maxillary sinuses illuminate, the diagnosis of frontal sinus suppuration is still further established. Should the ostium frontale become blocked a more serious train of symptoms may supervene. As the thin bony floor of the sinus offers least resistance, expansion of this wall follows most readily, with the formation of a fluctuating swelling in the upper and inner angle of the orbit. Exophthalmos, and a downward and outward displacement of the eyeball along with certain visual disturbances, may follow dis- tension of the cavity. Rupture of the bony wall may take place with the formation of an orbital abscess. Perforation of the posterior sinus wall followed by intracranial mischief is a rare complication in acute cases. (c) The Ethmoidal Cells.—Acute suppuration, whether occurring in the ethmoid labyrinth or limited to the cell of the ethmoidal bulla or of the middle turbinated bone, is not frequently met with. Griinwald reports two cases in which a limited suppuration of this kind oc- curred. Both patients suffered from headache and severe pains in the forehead, and complained of nasal discharge, which in one of the cases was for some days of a watery nature, after- wards becoming purulent. Examination of the nose showed the mucous membrane to be red and slightly swollen, and pus was visible upon the middle turbinated body. Irrigation of the nose and the establishment of a free exit for the pus permanently removed the symptoms. Jeaffreson reports an acute case, with sudden onset, occurring during convalescence from scarlet fever. The patient was seized with rigors, fever, headache, and cerebral symptoms. In a few days there was exophthalmos of the right eye with defective vision and double optic neuritis. An incision made on the inner side of each orbital cavity evacuated pus. The ab- scesses were found to communicate. In twenty- four hours all acute symptoms disappeared. {d) The Sphenoidal Sinus.—Acute inflamma- tion of this cavity has not been very frequently