PARALYSIS 274 The clinical picture is that of spastic para- plegia, and for its details the reader is referred to the general desci'iption above given. No sensory disorders are present with the exception of dull pain in the back. The sphincters are unafltected, and no girdle sensa- tion is present. Cranial nerves and special senses are not affected. Diagnosis.—There are so many diseases of the spinal cord of which the aspect at some period of their course resembles pure lateral sclerosis, that a correct diagnosis can only be arrived at by a process of exclusion. This disease has no pathognomonic symptoms, its characteristic being the absence of signs point- ing to lesions of parts of the central nervous system other than the pyramidal tracts. It is clear that only by watching the progress of a case over a long period can a probable diagnosis be arrived at. A case exactly answering to the above description of simple spastic paraplegia may develop the fixed pupil, tremors, and mental disturbance of general paralysis; the appearance of nystagmus and ocular palsies, intention tremor and sphincter trouble, may necessitate that the diagnosis is changed to disseminated sclerosis ; muscular wasting in the small muscles of the hand marks the case one of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; and the appearance of local signs in the vertebral column may spell spinal caries. For this reason, in a case seen soon after the onset of the symptoms, the diagnosis of primary spastic paraplegia is one that must be made tentatively to serve until the appearance of some other symptom labels the disease accurately. If after years such symptoms fail to appear, the diagnosis may be considered as finally correct. The majority of cases with this clini- cal aspect in young adults without a history of antecedent syphilis are cases of disseminated sclerosis, and it is astonishing in this disease how long the more classic symptoms, such as nystagmus, ocular palsies, altered speech, tremor, etc., may remain absent. Prognosis.—In primary lateral sclerosis there is some prospect of arrest and even of improve- ment if the disease has not reached an advanced stage. Actual recovery is rare, but is said to have occurred. When the spastic state is developed it is rare for treatment to produce more than arrest. There is not at present any guide to the prognosis of any individual case, besides its duration and degree, except its observed tendency especially under treatment. Treatment.—Drugs have little influence upon this disease. Arsenic and mercury in small doses; iron, quinine, and nux vomica have proved useful. The last of these must be used with caution, as it tends to increase the spasm. Massage and passive movements are often of signal service. Electricity in any form seems to do harm by exciting reflex spasm. Rest in bed seems to have ushered in improvement in many cases ; but it should never be absolute, as such patients kept strictly in bed may lose the power they previously had from disuse, and are sure to attribute the deterioration to the con- finement, perhaps not altogether incorrectly. Fraenckel's exercises often do good, and they, at the same time, occupy and interest the patient. Familial Spastic Paraplegia. — The occur- rence of primary lateral sclerosis in several members of the same family was first noticed by Erb and Striimpell in 1888. The disease is a rare one and aftects males and females equally, and may be directly transmitted to children through either parent. Several members of each generation as a rule suff'er, and those members of an affected family who are said to be healthy, if carefully examined, are often found to present slight signs of spasticity, such as pes cavus, foot clonus, and slightly spastic gait, though they may never reach a degree sufficient to interfere with comfort and daily labour. Other neuropathic tendencies some- times are present in the family, such as insanity. The symptoms become obtrusive between the age of puberty and thirty years. Clumsi- ness in walking and stiffness of the legs are first noticed, subsequently the movements of the hands become slow and awkward, and general slowly progressive spastic paraplegia results. In some cases spastic bulbar symp- toms, dysphagia, dysarthria, etc., have arisen. There is no alteration of sensibility, and the sphincters" are unaffected. Pes cavus is in- variably present. A slowly progressive mental dulness is common, and the disposition is placid and good-tempered. In some cases progressive atrophy is present. After many years the patients may become bed- ridden, or the condition may cease to progress in a slight or severe stage of spastic paraplegia. Pathology. — This disease seems to depend upon an inherent weakness of the pyramidal cells of the cortex cerebri, which after a longer or shorter tenure of vitality undergo degeneration. Treatment.—No special treatment is known to influence the disease, but the measures re- commended for the treatment of primary lateral sclerosis may be adopted. Syphilitic Paraplegia of Erb.—Under this title Erb has described a class of cases with a clinical aspect sufficiently distinct to deserve special description, and of which syphilis is the invariable antecedent. It must be here stated, however, that Erb's type is not the common type of spastic paraplegia due to syphilis ; acute myelitis with consecutive spastic paraplegia being a much more common result of luetic infection. Males are much more frequently affected than females. The onset is insidious, and occurs in half the cases within three years of infection, and in almost all cases within five years. The symptoms are those of progressive spastic para-