7 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF neuralgic pain, which involve the affected trunk and spread gradually to its higher branches. Motor weakness and sometimes spasmodic phenomena supervene, the vaso-motor and trophic symptoms are common, but complete anaesthesia and paralysis rarely develop, the prominent symptoms being constant wearing pain and crippling by trophic changes and de- formities. In the majority of cases the hand is the selected region, and not a few examples closely resemble Raynaud's disease except in the fact that they have no tendency to a sym- metrical type. Occasionally the inflammatory process appears to extend to the spinal cord, and epilepsy is said to supervene in some cases. It can, however, hardly be doubted that the cases described as traumatic neuritis include various ill-defined nervous troubles such as painful cicatrices, hysteria, and possibly reflex affections of various kinds. The treatment consists generally in the treat- ment of neuralgia, the most useful application being belladonna applied along the course of the affected trunk. In cases of great pain localised in a cicatrix, the latter should be freely excised, while extreme examples may call for nerve stretching or for the amputation of digits. Again, many cases are curable by free- ing the affected nerve from the general wound cicatrix, especially if the latter be attached to movable tendons, as is common at the wrist. In some, a removable source of irritation will be found in the form of a small foreign body. Pressure lesions of nerves result from the most varied conditions, of which the most prominent are tumours, aneurysms, cicatrices, fragments of broken bones, callus, dislocated bones, the foetal head, and external substances, such as crutches, splints, ligatures, and bandages. In many of these cases the results of pressure are most conveniently regarded as symptoms or complications of the primary disease, but in certain instances they become so prominent and characteristic as to call for special description. The resultant symptoms are in severe cases similar to those of nerve section, and are para- lytic in their nature, pain and hypersesthesia being mainly conspicuous by their absence. The onset is generally sudden, especially in the more characteristic examples, in which the source of pressure is a displaced bone or a hard substance compressing a nerve against a bone. Paralysis is generally much more marked than anaesthesia, and trophic changes are compara- tively rare. The intensity and duration of symptoms will naturally depend essentially upon that of the compressing agent. Of these cases the common pressure lesions of the musculo-spiral nerve afford the most typical example. Masses of callus and frac- tured or dislocated bones are especially liable to involve the nerves of the upper limb, and again the musculo-spiral nerve is prone to suffer in injuries of the humerus, while the brachial plexus is aftected by fractures of the clavicle and dislocations of the shoulder. In all such cases the essential treatment consists in the removal of the compressing agent, followed by the use of such subsidiary agents as have been recommended for nerve section. When the pressure is due to fragments of fractured bones it is commonly advised to obtain bony union before dealing with the nerve injury, but under modern conditions the writer certainly prefers early operation. Dislocation of nerves is extremely rare, except in the case of the ulnar, which is apt to be slipped forwards from its groove behind the internal condyle of the humerus. The latter injury is generally the result of a direct blow, although occasionally assigned to an abnormally small size of the condyle ; a few cases are ap- parently congenital. The affected trunk slips forward on to the inner aspect of the condyle, where it can be readily felt; it may either re- tain this position, or it may slip in and out of its normal bed with the movements of the arm. The characteristic symptoms are pain and tingling along the course of the ulnar nerve, ex- aggerated by movements or pressure and some- times associated with an ascending neuralgia or neuritis. The displaced trunk is usually readily reduced, but extremely difficult to retain in position. Recent cases may be treated by fixa- tion of the arm in an extended position with adaptation of a pad, not over the nerve, but over the condyle. Old-standing examples may cease to give trouble, the nerve becoming inured to its vicissitudes, or, if symptoms continue, cure is effected by opening the groove behind the condyle, replacing the nerve, and binding it down by suturing the deep fascia over it. Neuritis Neuritis, or mononeuritis, is the term applied to inflammation of a nerve. [When many nerves are affected the condition is termed multiple peripheral neuritis, or poly- neuritis. It is usually bilateral and symmetrical, and it will be considered subsequently.] Causes of Neuritis [Mononeuritis). — The affection is frequently produced by injury of the nerve through wounds, contusions, com- pression, adjacent bone fractures, or through dislocations. By prolonged violent muscular exertion neuritis may be produced in a nerve surrounded by the contracting muscle fibres. Adjacent inflammatory processes in bone or other tissues may cause neuritis by spreading to the nerve. Other causes are cold, rheu- matism, gout, and diabetes, and the infiltration of a nerve by new tissue in syphilis or cancer. A mononeuritis occasionally, though very rarely, follows typhoid fever, smallpox, diphtheria, tuberculosis. Neuritis of a single nerve usually begins in