538 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM antero-posterior diameter of the eye is too long, and as a result parallel rays—rays from distant objects—are focussed in front of the retina, and it is only when the object is brought near to the eye that a perfect image can be formed. In such an eye no positive accommodation is needed till the object is well within the normal far point, and the near point is approximated to the eye. To enable distant objects to be seen it is necessary to provide concave glasses by which the parallel rays are rendered divergent (Fig. 58, Z>). (3) Astigmatism is a defect due to unequal curvature of one or more of the refracting surfaces in different planes. If the vertical curvature of the cornea is greater than the horizontal, when a vertical line is looked at. —' I >< B Fig. 59.—To show the cause of astigmatism. A, A slight curva- ture of the cornea in the vertical plane ; B, more marked curvature in the horizontal plane, leading to rays from b— a horizontal line being focussed in front of the retina when a—a vertical line—is looked at. horizontal lines will not be sharply focussed at the same time. To correct this condition, the lesser curvature in any particular plane must be made as great as the greater curvature in the other plane, and this is done by placing a cylindrical or part cylindrical glass in front of the eye so that its curvature is in front of the lesser curvature of the eye and thus equalises it with the other curvature (Fig. 59). B. Stimulation of the Retina.—1. Reaction to Varying Illuminations.—(1) The Blind Spot. —At the entrance of the optic nerve the retina cannot be stimulated because there are no end organs in that situation. The existence of such a blind spot may be demonstrated—1st, By Mariotte's experiment, which consists in making two marks in a horizontal line on a piece of paper, closing the left eye, fixing the right eye on the left-hand mark with the paper held at a distance from the eye, when both marks are visible, then bringing the paper nearer to the eye, when the right-hand mark will first disappear, and, when the paper is brought still nearer, will reappear (Fig. 60, a). 2nd, By making a mark on a sheet of paper, and with the head close to the paper moving the point of a pencil to the right for the right eye, or to the left for the left eye, when the point will disappear and again reappear (Fig. 60, b). The eye is blind for all objects in the shaded re- gion. By resolving the various triangles the distance of the blind spot from the central spot of the eye may be deter- mined (3 to 4 mm.), and the diameter of the blind spot (1"5 mm.) may also be ascertained. The shape of the blind spot may be mapped out by fixing the head close to the paper, moving the point of the pencil out till it dis- appears, and then moving it in different directions and marking when it reappears. It is never quite circular, and often shows rays extending from its edge which are due to the blood-vessels. (2) The Field of Vision.—The rest of the retina forward to the ora serrata is capable of stimulation; but when the eye is directed forwards the extent of retina stimulated is influenced by the eyebrow cutting off rays from above and thus preventing the lower part of the retina being stimulated to its margin, and by the nose intercepting rays from the nasal side, thus protecting the outer part of the retina. The whole range of objects which can be seen at one time constitutes the field of vision, and it may be indicated by the optical angle subtended by that range of objects. As the distance from the eye increases the field of vision expands. It may be investigated by the perimeter, an instrument which can readily be made by describing the arc of a circle upon a blackboard or sheet of paper, placing the eye at the centre and directing it to a mark in the middle of the circumference, and then bringing a piece of chalk inwards along the line until it Fig. 58.—To illustrate presbyopia, hj'permetropia, and myopia. A, Emmetropic eye; B, pres- byopic eye ; C, hypermetropic eye ; D, myopic eye ; J/'.P.o, the near point, and F.P.x, the far point of accommodation.