PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 424 I seemed inevitable; yet at the operation the general peritoneal cavity presented no sign whatever of early inflammation. Another explanation that occurs to one is that at first there is a bacterial invasion of the general peritoneal cavity, but that the peri- toneum has sufficient resisting power to repel the invasion except at the spot where the bac- terial activity is most intense, i.e. in and around the appendix. If, however, the view now gener- ally held, that inflammation is the necessary defensive and offensive weapon against bacterial assaults be true, there should be evidences ob- tained at the exploratory operation that such an attempt on the part of the peritoneum has been made. In the two cases already mentioned there was not the slightest trace of any inflam- matory reaction in the peritoneal cavity, and therefore I think we may safely conclude that the generalisation of the signs is due to a widespread disturbance in the central nervous system. Vomiting.—Next to pain this is the earliest, most constant, most distressing, and most per- sistent symptom. The abdominal muscles take little if any part in the expulsive act, so that the stomach itself does most of the work; hence the act of vomiting appears to occur without much effort. As to the causation of the vomit- ing it is very difficult to make anything like an accurate statement. In the early stages it is probably due to a large extent to the poisoning of the centre in the medulla oblongata, or to some reflex nervous action from the inflamed peritoneum, the former being the more probable. Of course, after paralysis of the intestine has set in we have another factor at play very much resembling the condition of affairs in intestinal obstruction. Like most of the symptoms of peritonitis vomiting is very variable, and may be slight or even absent. This is especially the case in the variety known as masked peritonitis. Defcecation.—In the early hours of the attack there is very often a stool which is generally described as being loose; diarrhoea is not un- common. A frequent desire to defsecate without any result is sometimes met with, especially when the inflammation has its origin in the appendix or pelvic organs, and this may be so intense as to deserve the name tenesmus. As soon as the distension of the small gut sets in the colon becomes inert, and constipation is the rule in fully-developed peritonitis. Distension of the Abdomen (Meteor-ism).—As the intestinal coils become paralysed and dis- tended and the abdominal muscles begin to relax, we get the condition of meteorism, which gradually increases until the abdomen is much distended. This gradual distension of the abdo- men is undoubtedly diagnostic of acute general peritonitis, and in the opinion of the writer it is a certain indication that no delay should occur before opening the abdomen. Of all the symp- toms of peritonitis distension of the abdomen is perhaps the most constant, and however much one may waver in the early stages of the disease, this physical sign should disperse all trace of hesitation concerning the nature of the trouble. As a rule it sets in at the end of the first forty- eight hours, but in the less acute cases it may not set in for three or even four days. There seems no doubt that the early stage of meteorism is due to distension of the small intestine, and only quite later in the course of the disease does the large gut become much distended. In my experience it is seldom that the distension of the large gut gives any trouble at an abdominal section for acute peritonitis, whereas in most cases the distended coils of small gut are most troublesome to the operator. Temperature.—This is the most variable of the whole of the symptoms, so variable, indeed, that it is safer for the practitioner to place no importance whatever upon it so far as the dia- gnosis and treatment of the disease are con- cerned. As a rule, in most diseases great stress is laid upon the importance of the temperature chart in diagnosis, and in my experience there is too great a tendency to lay stress upon, for instance, the absence of fever in a suspected case of peritonitis as throwing doubt upon the nature of the disease. It is better, therefore, to underrate rather than overrate the value of this symptom. In cases of sudden perforation of the viscera the temperature is usually sub- normal, and often remains so until the end. Method op Examination.—The patient should be placed on his back with the legs extended and the arms by the side of the body. The body is uncovered to such an extent as to show the apex beat of the heart above and Poupart's ligament below. As the examination proceeds, as much of the body should be covered up as is possible. By inspection attention should be paid to the movements of the abdominal muscles in relation to respiration, especially whether a part or the whole of the muscles are acting or not. Next, it should be noted whether the abdomen is retracted or distended. In the later cases any discoloration of the surface should be noticed, especially any discoloration around the superficial veins. 'Qy palpation we should care- fully test the superficial tenderness and the deep tenderness. In examining the abdomen with the hand it is advisable to commence on the skin of the thorax, so that the apprehensions of the patient are minimised. By percussion we may learn something from the resonance of the note whether uniform or not, and when the resonance is suggestive of tympanites. If the liver and splenic dulness are practically ob- literated the diagnosis of free gas in the peri- toneal cavity is probable. Very little aid is gained by auscultation; it is interesting to note, however, that the great physician Bright was the first to point out the existence of the friction