189 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE idiopathic variety the onset is usually sudden, and ushered in by severe pain, followed by a roaring or hissing noise, which persists with increasing vehemence. In a short time, varying from a few hours to a few days, exophthalmos develops, accompanied by pulsation, thrill, and perhaps failure of vision. In the traumatic cases the onset is more gradual, the symptoms appearing after a severe head injury, often with fracture of the base of the skull, from which the patient may have been unconscious for hours, or even days. The noise may be the earliest symptom complained of, and is followed by exophthalmos and other signs. The condition is usually fully developed within six or eight weeks of the injury. In cases, whether idiopathic or traumatic, which progress rapidly, the swelling of the lids and conjunctiva may be so great as to suggest orbital cellulitis. Spontaneous pulsating exoph- thalmos is much more common in females and in middle age. The traumatic variety is more frequent in the male sex, and may occur at any age. The pathology of pulsating exophthalmos is much less familiar than are its clinical char- acters. Comparatively few cases have been ex- amined after death, and in some of these no adequate explanation of the symptoms was found. The lesion which has been most fre- quently discovered post-mortem is rupture of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. As a result of this the blood-stream escapes into the venous sinus, and the latter, as well as its communicating veins, become greatly distended and pulsating, forming an arterio-venous aneurysm. In spontaneous cases the rupture occurs in an artery with very de- generative walls, or aneurysmal dilatation and thinning. In the traumatic variety the injury to the blood-vessel is inflicted by a splinter from a fractured bone, or by a bullet or other missile which penetrates the skull. Other conditions which have been found post-mortem are aneu- rysm of the carotid artery in the cavernous sinus, aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery either before its passage through the sphenoid bone or in its orbital portion, and thrombosis of the cavernous sinus and ophthalmic veins. Spontaneous cure of pulsating exophthalmos has occurred, but is quite exceptional. The disease is usually progressive, and, unless arrested, leads to a fatal termination after an interval varying from a few weeks to two or three years. Death results from complications, such as repeated haemorrhage (chiefly in trau- matic cases) or from cerebral lesions. The diagnosis of pulsating exophthalmos presents no difficulty; but it is by no means easy to distinguish with certainty the different varieties. The most important diagnosis to make is between a purely vascular lesion and a pulsating tumour of the orbit. This is especi- ally needful in the case of malignant growths. Such difficulty arises only in instances of slowly- developing exophthalmos which is clearly not traumatic. In cases of tumour the protrusion of the globe is less frequently straightforwards, pulsation is less noticeable, and as a rule no humming or other noise is heard by the patient. Moreover, the eifect of external pressure or of compression of the carotid artery upon the exophthalmos is much less than in aneurysm. If the tumour can be reached with the finger it is firmer and more resistant than true pulsating exophthalmos. Treatment.—The amelioration of symptoms induced by temporary compression of the carotid artery is a clear indication as to the treatment of pulsating exophthalmos. The two most useful surgical measures are (a) compression and {b) ligature of the common carotid artery. Either digital or instrumental pressure may be employed. The former has proved the more effectual, but there are often difficulties in its execution. In successful cases treated by com- pression, improvement has begun about the third day, but the duration of treatment has varied from four to eighteen days. It is only in the idiopathic variety that compression of the artery offers a reasonable chance of success, and even in this variety the results of treatment are not very encouraging. Keller reports one success in seven cases. Ligation of the common carotid artery has given better results than any other procedure, and in successful cases the cure has been com- plete in six or seven weeks. The records of this operation during recent years are very en- couraging, and improved surgical methods have robbed it of nearly all its former risks, such as wound infection. In a small proportion of cases, however, disturbance of cerebral functions and death have followed the ligature of the carotid. As a rule, the effect of ligation is immediate and very marked. The pulsation and bruit, and the subjective noises disappear, and the exophthalmos and swelling of lids and conjunctiva steadily become less. In some instances a return of all the symptoms is noted a few days, or as long as one month, after ligature of the artery. When this occurs, the common carotid of the opposite side, or the external carotid of the same side, should be tied. Other methods of treatment which have been employed in pulsating exophthalmos are re- peated electrolysis and the injection of coagulat- ing fluids. The latter plan is unsafe, and has given no satisfactory results; and electrolysis has proved of little vahie in true arterio-venous aneurysm. Intermittent Exophthalmos. — Under this name cases have been described in which the eyeball becomes proptosed on stooping or in any way obstructing the return of venous blood from the orbit. The condition has also been