468 PHARYNX—ACUTE PHARYNGITIS redness of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, lowered vitality of the patient, tendency to dyspnoea, swelling of the cervical tissues, and the frequent presence of sugar in the urine, or albuminuria, are symptoms which leave little doubt as to the real nature of the disease. The discovery of the streptococctis erysipelatosus in the inflamed areas will place the diagnosis beyond doubt {vide " Morbid Anatomy"). Prognosis.—This is always serious, except in the mildest cases, e.g. hospital sore throat. Death may unexpectedly occur, not only from asphyxia, but from cardiac failure, or less com- monly from pulmonary, meningeal, or other complications. Generally speaking, in a patient who is going to recover, the inflammatory symptoms quickly reach their height and rapidly subside. Treatment.—The patient is, of course, confined to bed; the bowels should be opened by a castor-oil or saline aperient, an ice-collar applied to the neck, and he should have pellets of ice to suck. Every efibrt must be made to support the system, and to this end liquid nourishment such as beef-tea, beaten-up eggs, and milk, should be administered hourly. If swallowing be painful, nutrient enemata should supplement food taken by the mouth. Cardiac depression must be combated by free administration of brandy, iced champagne, and full doses of strychnia. Semon speaks highly of oxygen inhalations in this connection. Judging from the favourable residts following the use of anti- streptococci serum in cutaneous erysipelas, it should be tried in the disease under considera- tion; 10 cc. should be injected with the same precautions as are taken with the anti-diphther- itic serum, and the dose may be repeated in twenty-four hours if necessary. Medicinally, the tincture of the perchloride of iron in full doses, combined with quinine, should be given every three or four hours. Salicylate of ammonium, in 20-grain doses every three hours, is especially useful when a high temperature is associated with delirium or cerebral complications. Sprays of cocaine (15 per cent) to the pharynx and larynx will somewhat relieve the pain and congestion, and will aid in preventing spasm of the larynx. Urgent dyspnoea which does not yield im- mediately to the application of 20 per cent cocaine must be dealt with by free scarification with a laryngeal lancet or a curved bistoury, shielded to within an inch of its point. Ener- getic counter-irritation by means of sinapisms applied to the throat, chest, back, and shoulder- blades should be tried, since its adoption has certainly seemed successful in reducing the pharyngeal inflammation in some cases. Failing with these measures, laryngotomy or tracheotomy is imperative, and should not be delayed until the patient is semi-asphyxiated or in extremis. Intubation would be useless in most cases, because of the swelling of the pharyngeal and epiglottic mucous membranes above the larynx. For the treatment of angina Ludovici, which may lead to pharyngeal and laryngeal symptoms identical with those above described, see article "Cellulitis." C. Herpes of the Pharynx.—This is met with as an eruption of small vesicles upon the pharynx and neighbouring parts, especially the fauces and soft palate. The pharyngeal mucosa is usually swollen and hypersemic, and the small vesicles soon burst, leaving minute ulcers with a yellowish floor, surrounded by a bright red, well-defined margin. The onset of the disease is characterised by febrile symptoms and malaise, while the throat is sore and there is great pain on swallowing. The treatment should be that laid down for cases of acute idiopathic pharyngitis. An iced spray of one-third per cent watery solution of ichthyol every quarter of an hour will quickly reduce the inflammation in this as in many other forms of acute laryngeal and pharyngeal inflammations. Chronic Pharyngitis Definition.—A chronic morbid process resulting in hypertrophy or atrophy, and involving in a greater or less degree all structures in the mucous membrane lining the naso- and oro- pharynx, the process being pathologically and clinically distinct from that of acute pharyngitis. For clinical convenience chronic pharyngitis is spoken of as Simple chronic catarrhal phar- yngitis., Hypertrophic pharyngitis or Granular pharyngitis, Pharyngitis sicca or Atrophic p)har- yngitis. The incidence of the disease may be upon the sides of the pharynx, pharyngitis later- alis, and may extend to the Eustachian tubes. The uvula and soft palate, as well as the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces, and the tonsils are not uncommonly also aff'ected. From a pathological standpoint, as will presently be explained, these varieties really represent only diff"erent phases of one and the same disease ; for clinical purposes the terms in vogue may usefully be retained so long as they do not lead to confusion. Etiology.—It is a disputed point whether chronic pharyngitis is to be regarded as the result of one or more attacks of acute inflam- mation of this region. From a study of the clinical histories of a large number of cases, I am inclined to think that the morbid process is not an acute inflammatory one at the first, but that the process is insidious in its onset and progressive in its character. Its course is usually marked by repeated attacks of acute catarrhal sore throats, which are exacerbations of, and not the cause of chronic pharyngitis. Moreover, a primary acute inflammatory