PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 517 up during the activity of the neuron, may- accumulate in granules. The granules formed of this material are generally known as Nissl's granules (Fig. 36). These cells give off at least one process, which Fig. 36.—a, A nerve cell with Nissl's granules ; 6, a similar cell showing changes on section of its axon. continues for some distance, as the axon. Frequently other processes are given off, which may either pass away as fibres, or may, while still in close prox- imity to the cell, form a branching system of den- drites. The axons end in much the same manner, so that all the pro- cesses are essen- tially the same. These processes are fibrillated. Fig. 37.—a nerve cell highly magnified flbrillse to show passage of processes through may be traced the protoplasm. , i , , i through the pro- toplasm of the cells (Fig. 37). In many cases the dendrites show little bvids or gemmules upon their course, and, according to some observers, it is through these that one neuron is brought into definite relationship at one time with one set of neurons, and at another with other adjacent neurons. There is also some evidence that the den- drites as a whole may expand and contract, and thus become con- nected with those of adjacent neurons. Axon.—The axon process, as it passes away from the cell, becomes a Nerve Fibre, and acquires one or two coverings. 1. A thin transparent membrane, the primitive sheath or neurilemma, is present in all peripheral nerves. Between it and the axis cylinder there are a number of nuclei surrounded by a small quantity of protoplasm, the nerve corpuscles. The mode of origin of these is unknown. Fibres with only this sheath have a grey colour, and may be called non-medullated fibres. They are abundant in the visceral nerves. 2. A thick white sheath — the medullary sheath or white sheath of Schwann — which gives the white colour to most of the nerves of the body, appears somewhat late in the develop- ment of many nerve fibres. It lies between the primitive sheath with the nerve corpuscles and the axon. It is not continuous, but is interrupted at regular intervals by constrictions of the neurilemma at the nodes of Ranvier (Fig. 38). It is composed of a sponge-work or felt-work of a horn-like material—neurolceratin —the meshes of which are filled with a peculiar fatty material. The nerve fibres run together in bundles to constitute the nerves of the body, and each bundle is surrounded by a dense fibrous sheath, the perineurium. When a bundle divides, each branch has a sheath of perineurium, and in many nerves this sheath is continued, as the sheath of Henle, on to the single fibres which are ultimately branched off from the nerve. 2. Chemistry of Nerve The chemistry of neuron cells and their processes has been deduced from a study of the chemistry of the grey matter of the brain where they preponderate, while the chemistry of the white sheath is indicated by the analyses of the white substance of the brain, which consists chiefly of meduUated fibres. The grey matter contains over 80 per cent of water. The solids consist of rather less than 10 per cent of proteins. Two globulins, one coagulating at 47° C. and the other at 73° to 75° C, and a nucleo-proteid coagulating at 56° to 60° C, have been isolated. Lecithin and cholesterin, each to about 3 per cent, are the other important constituents. The white matter contains only about 70 per cent of water. The proteins, similar to those in the grey matter, constitute between 7 and 8 per cent. Lecithin occurs in about Fig. 38.—Pieces of two white nerve fibres. the same amount as in the grey matter, but cholesterin constitutes no less than 15 or 16 per cent. From the fatty material of the white sheaths