385 AND PELVIC FLOOR PELVIS—PERINEUM abdominal pressure—more especially the early return to its use after parturition. Two or three weeks after labour, when all the tissues are soft, when muscular tone is low, when the uterus is large, the vaginal walls are lax, and the perineum is very frequently torn, the patient puts on her corsets, reducing her waist to the same size which it occupied before preg- nancy began. The result is a raising of intra- abdominal pressure,and this is often enough under the circumstances to cause prolapse. Another fruitful cause of high intra-abdominal pressure at a specially unsuitable time is the prolonged use of the obstetric binder. This appliance is excusable and comfortable for the two or three days immediately following labour, but after these have passed it is a useless and, if tight, a dangerous encumbrance. Suiferers from prolapse complain of "down- bearing," pain in the back, and pelvic discomfort, and also of the presence of a lump or swelling at the vaginal orifice. The soreness and dis- charge caused by excoriations upon the pro- truding mass is often the main trouble. There is also difficulty in passing water. In early cases the anterior vaginal wall is found protrud- ing from the vulva, the cervix is near the vaginal outlet, the uterus is retroverted and large. The term " prolapse " is by some used for cases in this stage, the term " procidentia" being re- served for more advanced cases. In these the whole uterus enclosed in the inverted vaginal walls is outside the vulva and hangs between the thighs. The uterus is large and congested, the cervix gaping and hypertrophied, and the vaginal walls are often widely ulcerated. If the displaced organs be gently replaced in their normal position, and the patient, lying on her side, be then requested to strain down, the mechanism of prolapsus may be observed, the organs passing through, in a few moments, the phases which they have successively gone through as the condition developed, occupying, it may be, months or years in the process. The anterior vaginal wall first appears at the vulva. A finger placed in the vagina gives the information that as this occurs the uterus descends and at the same time assumes a retroverted position, its long axis changing during descent and following the axis of the pelvic canal. The cervix next appears at and emerges from the vulva, the posterior vaginal wall finally descending as the whole uterus leaves the pelvis. The urethra, with the lower and hinder part of the bladder, and also the iireters, accompany the anterior vaginal wall in its descent {see Cystocele). The rectum, however, is separated, as a rule, from the posterior vaginal wall, and remains approxi- mately in its usual position (see Rectocele). True sacro-pubic hernia must be distinguished from hypertrophy of the cervix by examination with the sound. In the latter condition, though the cervix may appear at the vulva, the anterior VOL, VII vaginal wall and the bladder remain in their normal positions. Cystocele may resemble prolapse ; but in true cystocele the uterus retains its position, the lower and hinder portion of the bladder pro- truding at the vulva covered by the anterior vaginal wall. In rectocele a finger passed into the anus runs into the pouch formed by the anterior rectal and posterior vaginal walls, the uterus, bladder, and anterior vaginal wall retaining their position. The palliative treatment of prolapsus uteri consists, for the most part, in the use of pessaries. In many slight cases the use of a flexible rubber ring pessary, or of a vulcanite instrument of chosen size and shape, will give relief. In other cases, a rubber bag fitted with a stopcock and inflated after insertion will render the patient comfortable. In more serious cases, before using a pessary, excoriations have to be treated with lotions and imguents, uterine con- gestion has to be reduced by astringent hot douches and rest in bed, and the uterus may have to be supported temporarily by packing the vagina with gauze. In certain cases repair of the perineum may be undertaken simply in order to enable the patient to wear a pessary, and not as an attempt at operative cure of the prolapse. In women in advanced life, and when for other reasons operative treatment is not desirable, the old-fashioned cup and stem pessary, supported by rubber tubing attached to an abdominal belt, may be very useful. As an alternative, when the pessary produces ex- coriations the vagina may be packed with tow or gauze every few days, a perineal pad and T-bandage being worn in order to keep the packing in position. The choice of a line of operative treatment demands careful consideration in each case. It must be remembered that the following con- ditions are generally present:— 1. Enlarged congested uterus. 2. Relaxed ring of loose tissue between the movable and the fixed portions of the pelvic floor, involving separation of the rectum from the vagina, and separation of the uterus and bladder from the surfaces generally in relation with them. 3. Torn perineum. 4. Stretched and weakened "fixed portion," with probable lacerations of the levator ani. 5. Relaxed and enlarged vaginal walls. 6. Increased intra-abdominal pressure. No. 1 can be improved by reposition, amputa- tion of cervix, curetting, and other local treat- ment. No. 3 can be repaired. No. 5 can be improved by anterior and posterior colporraphy. But No. 2, No. 4, and No. 6 cannot be altered by operative interference. Doubtless curetting, amputation of the cervix, narrowing the vagina by colporraphy, and re- 25