254 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF pain was considerable, and an indefinite fulness could be felt. The diagnosis of gall-stones in the common duct was made, and an operation was advised. The patient was operated on at a surgical home on March 30, when the gall- bladder was found to be slightly distended and surrounded by adhesions to the pylorus, duo- denum, colon, and omentum. No gall-stones could be discovered, but there was a swelling of the head and the first two inches of the pancreas, which, though nodular and irregular, was not very hard. This extended farther to the right than normal, so as to cover in the lower end of the common bile-duct. Chole- cystotomy was performed Within twenty-four hours of the operation nearly four pints of very offensive bile were discharged through the tube. A specimen was examined by the Clinical Research Association, and their report was as follows :—" The bile contains both staphylococci and streptococci, but no bacillus coli communis could be found either under the microscope or in the culture." Feai'ing that the disease might be malignant, and the patient being so extremely weak and ill, I gave a poor prognosis ; but in a few days I was able to write : " The patient is pi'Ogressing very satisfactorily, though he is still profoundly weak. Bile has appeared in the motions, so that the obstruction is evidently overcome. The bowels have been moved naturally, and the patient is less deeply jaundiced and looking better generally." On April 5, I was able to report that he was taking food well, and that bile was passing freely in the motions. He had had no recur- rence of the shivering attacks. The drainage was continued for fourteen days. On the 20th the patient returned home. The urine was then free from bile, and the motions were assuming a natural colour ; he was taking food well, gaining flesh, and looking better generally. From that time onward his progress to recovery was extremely rapid. A report 1 had of his condition from Mr. Robertson a few months later said that he was perfectly well in every respect, and that he had fully regained his lost weight. I heard of this patient five years after operation and he was still in perfectly good health. A man aged twenty-five years was seen with Dr. Stanley Smith on January 11, 1905, on ac- count of deep jaundice with serious deterioration of health, accompanied by loss of weight and strength. He gave a history that he had been out big game shooting in Uganda and had had an attack of fever, from which he made a good recovery, returning home in September of the previous year in fairly good health. In October he had what he took to be a return of the fever, the attack being ushered in by a rigor and followed within a few days by jaundice, which gradually deepened, but he had absolutely no pain in the abdomen or elsewhere. He lost his appetite forthwith and speedily began to lose flesh, so that when 1 saw him his weight was less by a stone than on his return home. There had been neither sickness nor vomiting and no more rigors. His pulse had been very slow (from 40 to 50) and the temperature subnormal. These symptoms continued up to the time of my seeing him, when I found him suffering from deep, almost black, jaundice and from anaemia. The liver reached well below the costal margin, almost to the iimbilicus, but the spleen could not be felt. A little tenderness was elicited an inch above the umbilicus and half an inch to the right of the middle line, where I thought I could feel a slight fulness, but this was in- definite. No dilatation of the stomach could be felt, and beyond the jaundice with the pale motions and dark urine no other physical signs could be elicited. The motions were bulky, but not frequent, and there was no tendency to diarrhoea. The tongue was somewhat coated. Chronic pancreatitis was suspected, and the uriue and fseces were sent to Dr. P. J. Cammidge for examination, the following being his report:— Urine. — Reaction, acid. Specific gravity, 1014. Albumin, nil; some nucleoproteid. Dextrose, nil. Maltose, nil. Glycuronic acid, nil. Indican, marked reaction. Ferric chloride reaction, negative. Bile pigment, much. Microscopically, a few bile-stained epithelial cells. Pancreatic reaction: "A," many fine crystals, soluble in 33 per cent sulphuric acid in one-half to three-quarters of a minute ; " B," do. do. FcBces. — Reaction, alkaline. Stercobilin, traces. Microscopically, crowds of fat globules, many fatty acid crystals, much vegetable tissue, some partially digested muscle fibre, epithelial cells, and granular debris. Total fat, 56*8 per cent; neutral fat, 29'5 per cent; fatty acids, 27'3 per cent. These results indicate a pancreatic lesion of an inflammatory nature. The character of the crystals obtained from the urine a,nd the relation of the " A " and " B " reactions suggest that, while the condition is probably of some standing, there is at present active inflammation of the gland. The large amount of bile pigment in the urine and its almost complete absence from the faeces, together with the high percentage of fat and the presence of muscle fibre in the latter, point to an obstruction of the common duct as the probable cause of the condition. The considerable reaction for indican given by the urine suggests that there is some catarrh of the upper part of the intestine. As medical treatment with rest in bed and care in diet had been thoroughly tried without any benefit, an operation was advised. This was performed at a nursing home on Janu- ary 16. On opening the abdomen by a verti-