NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 32 Meckel's ganglion is avulsed with the nerve, to the under aspect of which it is attached in front of the foramen rotundum. The zygoma is now replaced and retained in position by sutures passed through the masseter muscle and ad- jacent soft parts at each end of the hiatus; it is not necessary to suture the bone itself, and time is saved by avoiding the necessity for drilling it. The disfigurement produced by the operation is exceedingly slight. The inferior dental nerve is readily exposed at the mental foramen, which lies midway be- tween the upper and lower borders of the lower jaw, in a line passing from the supra-orbital foramen between the bicuspid teeth of the upper jaw; avulsion may here be performed, but is of little value, as the seat of operation is anterior to the dental branches. A more satisfactory method is to make a curved incision around the angle of the jaw, turn forwards the soft parts, and apply a J-inch trephine over the middle of the lower part of the descending ramus ; the trephine is carried well into, but not through the bone, when the dental canal is laid open, and the nerve exposed therein. The nerve can also be divided at either the mental or dental foramen from within the mouth, but the opera- tion is less precise and cannot be aseptic. Still another method consists in working up inside the jaw from an incision made below it until the entrance of the dental canal is reached; of this we have no experience. The lingual nerve is more often divided to relieve the pain of epithelioma of the tongue than to combat a true neuralgia; it lies in a line running from the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw, and can there be felt and cut. The third division of the trigeminal nerve may be divided in its entirety at its exit from the foramen ovale, this operation giving better results than separate treatment of the inferior dental or lingual. For this purpose the writer has found convenient a method similar to Lossen and Braun's operation upon the superior maxillary division : the zygoma being turned down with the masseter, the coronoid process of the lower jaw is cut away, and turned up- wards with the insertion of the temporal muscle; in this way the external pterygoid is clearly seen, and the branches of the inferior maxillary division escaping from beneath it can be traced back to the foramen ovale. As in other cases bony union of the parts cut through can be obtained by suturing their overlying soft structures, and drilling of the bone is not required. The operation advised by Horsley and Rose consists in making an incision similar to that of the Braun and Lossen operation, cutting across the masseter immediately below the socia paro- tidis, clearing the ascending ramus of the lower jaw, and making a large hole in it by the trephine and cutting forceps. By this means the structures of the face are injured less thao in the first operation; but comparatively little room is provided for the deeper stages, and ex- perience has shown that the first method leaves no practical deformity or inconvenience. Removal of the Gasserian ganglionic, vh^ig^Xq^ in cases in which the above operations have failed to cure, in cases of neuralgia involving the whole of the trigeminal area, and especially in epileptiform cases accompanied by secre- tory and vasomotor symptoms. The principal methods are those of Hartley and Krause, and of Rose, the former being preferred by most surgeons. 1. The Hartley-KraxLse Operation.—A horse- shoe-shaped incision is made in the temporal region, one end being immediately in front of the ear, and the other about an inch behind the outer angle of the orbit. This incision marks out a large flap with its base on the zygoma, and with a vertical depth of three inches ; it is carried down to the temporal fossa, and the cranium is there divided in the line of the cut by a circular saw or chisel. The combined flap of bone and soft structures is now turned down, and bleeding arrested by ordinary means. The dura mater covering the temporo-sphenoidal lobe is exposed, and is held back by a spatula; in thus drawing back the dura mater, the second and third divisions of the trigeminal are in- dicated by its attachment along their course. They are cleared by blunt dissection, and traced back to the ganglion, which is similarly cleared. The ganglion is then grasped in a pair of forceps, its superior and inferior maxillary branches are cut across, and it is itself torn away. Horsley's earlier operation was similar to that of Krause and Hartley, but opened the dura mater over the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and again opened the dural sheath of the Gasserian ganglion from its inner or cerebral aspect instead of from its outer or cranial side. 2. Hose's Operation.—" An incision similar to that for exposing the foramen ovale (Braun- Lossen's) is made through the skin, and the flap thus marked out is drawn forwards and stitched out of the way. The zygoma is drilled and turned down together with the masseter; the coronoid process is then divided or removed, and, together with the temporal muscle, turned upwards ; the internal maxillary artery is, if possible, secured, and the sphenoidal attachment of the external pterygoid scraped away so as to allow of the exposure of the foramen ovale, which lies just in front of the base of the ptery- goid processes. A |-inch trephine is now applied immediately outside the foramen ovale, and the bone around the opening thus made is also removed by forceps or chisel so as to give more space. The trunk of the third division is traced upwards, the sheaths of the ganglion opened, the second division cut through by means of a sharp cutting-hook, and the ganglion torn away