PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 535 sory ligament {S.L.), and then splits to form the lens capsule. In this is held the crystalline lens {L.), a biconvex lens, with its greater curvature on its posterior aspect, and characterised by its great elasticity. Normally it is kept somewhat pressed out and flat- \ ^ tened between the layers of the capsule, > 2 but if the suspensory ligament is relaxed its natural elasticity causes it to bulge for- ward. This happens when the ciliary muscle contracts and pulls forward the ciliary processes with the hyaloid mem- brane. Between the hya- loid membrane and the choroid is the retina {Ret.). This is an expansion of the optic nerve, which enters the eye at 3 to 4 mm. to the inner side of the posterior Fig. 61.—Diagram of a section optic axis (Fig. 51). through the retina stained by ™ , ., ^ ^ „, ' Goigi's method. For descrip- The white nerve fibres Gehuchten.*r*' ^""^ P'^ss through the sclerotic, through the choroid, and through the retina, to form the white optic disc, and then losing their white sheath, they spread out in all directions over the front of the retina, to form its first layer— the layer of nerve fibres, 1. These nerve fibres take origin from a layer of nerve cells, 2, behind them, forming the second layer. The dendrites of these cells arborise with the den- drites for the next set of neurons in the third layer—the internal molecular layer, 3. The cells of these neurons are placed in the next or fourth layer—the inner nuclear layer, 4; and from these cells, processes pass backwards to form synapses in the fifth, or outer molec- ular layer, 5, with the dendrites of the ter- minal neurons. These terminal neurons have their cells in the sixth or outer nuclear layer, 6, of the retina, and they pass backwards and end in two special kinds of terminations in the seventh layer of the retina—the rods and cones, 7. These structures are composed of two segments — a somewhat barrel-shaped basal piece, and a transparent terminal part which in the rods is cylindrical and in the cones is pointed. Over the central spot of the eye there are no rods; but the cones lie side by side, and the other layers of the retina are thinned out. The rods and cones are imbedded in the last or eighth layer of the retina—the layer of pigment cells, or tapetum nigrum. The retina stops abruptly in front at the ora serrata, but the tapetum nigrum, along with another layer of epithelial cells representing the rest of the retinal structures, is continued forwards over the ciliary processes and over the back of the iris. The blood-vessels of the retina enter in the middle of the optic nerve, and run out and branch in the anterior layer of the retina. The interior of the eye may be examined by the ophthalmoscope, which consists essentially of a small mirror from which light can be re- flected into the back of the eye, with a small hole in the centre through which the observer can study the illuminated part of the chamber. C. Physiology.—The study of vision may be taken up in the following order:— 1. The mode of formation of pictures on the nerve structures (retina) of the eye. (1) One eye (monocular vision). A. The method in which rays of light are focussed (dioptric mechanism). B. Stimulation of the retina. (2) Two eyes (binocular vision). 2. The conduction of the nerve impulses from the retina to the brain. 3. The position and mode of action of the parts of the brain in which the changes are set up which accompany visual sensations (the visual centre). 1. The Mode of Formation op Pictures upon THE Retina (I.) Monocular Vision A. The Dioptric Mechanism.—Distant Vision.—The eye may be compared to a photo- graphic camera, having in front a lens, or lenses. /a Fig , 52.—To show how parallel rays are brought to a focus on the retina by refraction at the three surfaces, a, Anterior surface of the cornea; b, anterior surface of the lens; and c, posterior surface of the lens. to focus the light upon the sensitive screen behind (Fig. 52). The picture is formed on the screen by the luminous rays from each point outside being concentrated to a point upon the screen. This is brought about by refraction of light as it passes through the various media of the eye—the cornea, aqueous, crystalline lens,