71 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE turbinated body. The parts visible, providing there is nothing to intercept the view, are the anterior and inferior borders (c and /) and part of the internal surface. The angle of junction of the two borders is the part nearest to the ob- server's eye. Each of these borders presents an inner and an outer lip. Theoretically these are the parts which should be seen, but practically a considerable portion of the middle turbinated body is often hidden by the tubercle of the septum (d). If the tubercle be not very large, the inner lip of the anterior margin of the middle turbinated bone is to a great extent hidden from view, but above the tubercle is seen the neck of the bone (e), i.e. the narrow portion where it joins the body of the ethmoid bone. On its inner side a portion of the olfactory slit (g) is visible ; on its outer side is a depression (k) which forms part of the middle meatus. The tubercle often conceals the neck and whole of the inner lip of the anterior border of the middle turbinated body, leaving only the outer lip of the anterior border, the angle, and the lower border exposed to view. The tubercle must not be mistaken for a de- flected septum. The mucous membrane cover- ing the middle turbinated body is normally smooth and shining in appearance, and often presents a very minute red and yellow mottling. Septum.—The septum at its lower part may be traced as a slightly undulating surface passing directly backwards to the posterior naris. General or partial bleedings of the septum are common. Slight irregularities are so often met with that they can scarcely be considered abnormal. A small conical elevation opposite the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body is of frequent occurrence, and often has a ridge running upwards and backwards from it. Above, the septum presents the tubercle as already mentioned ; below, it joins the floor of the nasal cavity, which appears as a somewhat hollow surface seen greatly foreshortened. By projecting the light through the inferior meatus (/), the posterior wall of the nasopharynx and the movements of the palatal muscles during deglutition and phonation are often visible. These, when clearly made out, form a good test to the permeability of the inferior meatus. In exceptionally wide nasal cavities the upper margin of the posterior naris, bounded by two arches, one immediately above the other, may be seen, and above these again the anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone. The middle meatus is situated between the middle and inferior turbinated body, and on the space existing between the middle turbinated body and the outer wall of the nasal cavity depends the depth to which this meatus can be in- spected. As regards colour the inferior tur- binated body is the darkest, being of a deeper colour than the mucous membrane of the mouth. The septum is the next darkest portion, and the middle turbinated body lighter than either. Use of the Nasal Probe.—The use of the nasal probe under guidance of the eye is of great importance for controlling the appearances seen in any part of the nasal cavity, and for ascertaining the reflex irritability of the different intranasal structures. It should be blunt but not bulbous, non-flexible, and at- tached at an obtuse angle to a suitable handle. (6) Posterior Rhinoscopy. — Posterior rhino- scopy, or inspection of the nasal cavities and nasopharynx from behind, is accomplished by placing a small mirror at a suitable angle in the pharynx, and concentrating on it a strong light in the optical axis of the observer. Light is thus thrown into the naso-pharynx, and the image of the illuminated parts is seen by the surgeon. The appliances required are: (1) a powerful light; (2) a small rhinoscopic mirror ; (.3) a tongue-depressor. The light may be the same as that used in anterior rhinoscopy, and the same means can be employed for concen- trating and reflecting it. The rhinoscopic mirror should be circular and varying from half an inch upwards in diameter. If hxed, it should be attached to the shaft at an angle of 110°, but a larger angle is convenient for view- ing the roof and posterior wall of the naso- pharynx. Preferable to the fixed mirror is Frankel's, in which, by an ingenious arrange- ment, the angle of the mirror to the shaft can be altered after the instrument is in position. A tongue depressor is usually required for posterior rhinoscopy ; it should be angular, and not broader than necessary to keep down the centre of the tongue. Method of Performance. — The patient is seated with his head vertical or bent slightly forwards, and the observer takes up his position facing him on a rather lower seat. The patient being then told to merely open his mouth and not inhale or hold his breath, the tongue is gently, but firmly, held down with a tongue depressor, and the light from the reflector thrown on to the posterior wall of the pharynx. The previously warmed rhinoscopic mirror, with the reflecting surface directed upwards, is then rapidly passed into the pharynx, just below the velum, until it nearly, but not quite touches the posterior wall of that cavity. Then by gently depressing the handle (thus raising the mirror and rendering it more nearly vertical), if there be sufficient space between the velum and the posterior pharyngeal wall, the posterior rhinoscopic image comes into view. The parts first seen are probably the posterior surface of the uvula and velum. Above this a whitish vertical band is visible, the posterior margin of the septum of the nose. The other parts of the posterior rhinoscopic view are then seen by slight movements of the mirror in different directions.