NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 25 is thought to be of slight service by some writers. A wire "cradle" should be placed over the feet to prevent the pressure of the bed-clothes, which would increase the foot-drop. Also, it is important to keep the feet at right angles to the legs by the use of a sand-bag or foot-splint; in this way the dropping of the feet is rectified and permanent fixation of the feet in the position of talipes equino-varus is prevented. There is a great tendency for the legs to be flexed at the hips and knee, and to become permanently fixed in this position; hence the legs should be kept extended as much as possible. After the acute stage has passed, the daily stimulation of the paralysed muscle with the galvanic current tends to maintain their nutrition until the de- generated nerves recover. Massage is of service in the later period of the disease, the limbs being rubbed in an upward direction. Also, passive movements at the various joints should be made. But massage should not be given when the limbs are very painful, and it should never be continued if it gives great pain. These remarks on the treatment of alcoholic neuritis apply also to most of the other forms of neuritis. The following points may be mentioned in addition :—In lead neuritis potassium iodide is usually given, as it is supposed to increase the elimination of lead from the system. (This supposed action has, however, been recently dis- puted by Dr. Dixon Mann.) Oliver thinks that monosulphite of soda, gr. 5-10, three times a day, aids the elimination of lead. Aperients containing saline sulphates are thought to be of slight service also. Galvanism of the paralysed muscles, with massage, tends to keep up their nutrition until the degenerated nerve-fibres recover. An abundant nutritious diet, a pure atmosphere, open-air exercise, and warm baths are of service. As regards diphtheritic neuritis, the antitoxin treatment of diphtheria has no effect in prevent- ing its development. When there is difficulty in swallowing it is necessary to feed the patient with an oesophageal tube or by nutrient enemata. If there be any signs of cardiac failure the patient should not be allowed to sit up in bed, and digitalis or caffein may be given. When the breathing is difficult, artificial respiration may be of service in carrying the patient through a period of temporary respiratory failure. In malarial neuritis quinine should be given. In arsenical neuritis potassium iodide is said to be of some service in removing arsenic from the system, and may be given if there are no signs of cardiac failure. In diabetic neuritis the diet should be re- stricted according to the form of the disease (see article on "Diabetes Mellitus"). Sodium salicylate or antipyrin should be given, i'? In the puerperal neuritis occasionally it may be necessary to bring on labour artificially. Neuralgia Etiology; Symptoms . . . .25 Trigemiwil Neuralgia and other forms . 26 Pathology; Diagnosis .... 27 Treatment— Medical 27 Surgical . . . . . .28 The term neuralgia is applied to pain, usually paroxysmal in nature, which follows the course of a nerve or its branches, but which is not associated with gross or organic lesions of any part of the nervous system. Etiology.—Neuralgia is a disease of adult life. Children rarely suff'er. It is often associated with anaemia, occasionally with gout, diabetes, rheumatism, malaria, or an acute infectious disease such as typhoid fever. In females it is more liable to occur at puberty, during pregnancy and the puerperium, and at the climacteric period. Old age and arterio-sclerosis appear to pre- dispose to one form of the disease. Very frequently neuralgia is excited by ex- posure to cold, local or general, occasionally by emotional disturbances. Injuries to nerves may be followed by obstinate neuralgia. Trigeminal neuralgia, especially that form affecting the first branch, may follow influenza, infectious diseases, or malaria; it may be asso- ciated with chronic catarrh, or new growth aff'ecting the nasal mucous membrane, or with chronic catan-h or disease of the frontal sinus; occasionally it has followed a nasal operation. Trigeminal neuralgia may be excited by caries and other aff'ections of the teeth, by disease of the alveolar processes of the jaws (both when the teeth are present and absent), by disease of the periosteum of the bony canals, through which branches of the fifth nerve pass ; occa- sionally it is associated with diseases of the eye, with errors of refraction, diseases of the tongue and ear. Sometimes neuralgia is due to hysteria or neurasthenia. In many cases of severe neuralgia, especially of the epileptiform variety, no cause can be detected. Symptoms.—The chief symptom of neuralgia is pain, paroxysmal in nature, in the distribu- tion of one or more nerves. The duration of the pain may be very short (few seconds or minutes), or it may continue for an hour or more. There are intervals between the attacks in which the pain is absent or slight. During the attacks the pain is darting, stabbing, or boring in character; if pain be present between the attacks, it is dull and aching. The pain often corresponds to the position of a nerve- trunk. The attacks are frequently excited by cold, movements, food, and occasionally by emotions. Pain in one branch of a nerve may extend to other branches when severe, or even to adjacent nerves. Hypersesthesia or hyper- algesia of the skin often accompanies the pain.