PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 551 Head Thorax FlO. 84.—Distribution o£ the cutaneous nerves in the human subject. it is proved that the break is not in that gangUon. The arrangement of epicritic, protopathic, and deep fibres in the neuron and plexuses is con- sidered at p. 555. Distribution A. Somatic Fibres.—{a) Outgoing Fibres.— The course of these must be studied in the dissecting-room. (6) Ingoing Fibres.—The fibres passing in by each pair of nerves come from zones of skin encircling the body. These are, however, inter- rupted by the limbs. Each limb may be con- sidered to be an outgrowth at right angles to the trunk, composed of a pre-axial and post-axial part (Fig. 84). B. Splanchnic Fibres. — (a) The Outgoing Fibres may be divided into (Fig. 85)— A. The Thoracico - abdominal Fibres, which come out in the middle region of the spinal cord and pass through the lateral ganglia of the sympathetic chain— (1) Head and Neck.—These leave the spinal cord by the upper five dorsal nerves and pass upwards in the sympathetic cord of the neck to the superior cervical ganglion, where they have their cell stations. From these, fibres are distributed to the parts supplied. The chief functions of these fibres are—\st. Vaso-con- strictor to the vessels of the face and head; 2«c?. Pupilo-dilator (see p. 537); Zrd. Motor to the muscle of Miiller; ith. Secretory to the salivary glands, lachrymal gland, and sweat glands. The course of these fibres is of im- portance in medicine, since tumours in the upper part of the thorax may press upon them. (2) Thorax.—fibres to the thoracic organs also come off in the five upper dorsal nerves, have their cell stations in the stellate ganglion, and pass to the heart and lungs. (3) Abdomen. — These fibres come off in the lower six dorsal and upper three lumbar nerves. They course through the lateral ganglia and form synapses in the collateral ganglia of the abdomen —the solar plexus and the superior and inferior mesenteric ganglia. From these they are distributed to the abdominal organs, being vaso-constrictor to the vessels, in- hibitory to the muscles of the stomach and intestine, and pos- sibly secretory to the pancreas. 4. Pelvis.—The fibres for the pelvis leave the cord by the lower dorsal and upper four lumbar nerves, and have their cell stations in the inferior mesenteric ganglia, from which they run in the hypogastric nerves Abdomen Pelvis FlO. 85 —Scheme of distribution of splanchnic nerves.