PELLAGRA 377 in a hospital. There are other nervous phe- nomena which are rather complications than symptoms of pellagra, such as tonic and clonic convulsions, epileptic attacks, spastic paralysis, atrophy and paralysis of the muscles of the lower limbs, unilateral ptosis, and other eye affections. 4. Among the early brain symptoms are great mental depression; all thinking and calculating is an effort; and the patient gradually becomes irritable and excitable with others, and stupid and morose when alone. A settled gloom is present on the face after the first year or two, and patients lose all power of smiling and laughing, and some refuse even to try to do so. In advanced cases there are deep transverse furrows of melancholy across their foreheads, and their hopeless eyes stare vacantly. During the first or even the second year of pellagra in an individual of average intelligence no definite mental symptoms are noticed. After that he is found to be always sad, decidedly stupid, and unwilling to take any interest in anything beyond his food and sleep. At a later stage he loses his memory and becomes distinctly melan- cholic, always discontented, craving insistently for food and cigarettes, yet he loses weight in spite of being granted extra food. The sleepless- ness now becomes more pronoimced, and there are vague feelings about the head: sensation of weight, pressure, emptiness, or pulsation. There is often a vague purposeless restlessness, cul- minating in a fixed unreasonable desire to get away from the place in which he is. If the mental symptoms become more evident the patient must be confined in an asylum, for he will require special watching even if he be not suicidal. His delusions when present are insane renderings of his subjective symptoms. The skin irritation causes him to think that he is being burnt, or that his skin is being stretched or peeled off, and that he can escape from his tormentors by plunging into water. His gastric troubles and altered tastes lead him to refuse food and to imagine that everyone is poison- ing him. Some patients remain in a state of absolute dumbness for months. Those who are not melancholic suffer from the mania of per- secution or possession, and the usual ending of mental cases which do not respond to treatment is in secondary dementia, when they become dirty in their habits, forgetful of common decency and most of their past life; they live on until they slowly succumb to diarrhoea or tubercle, perhaps first becoming bedridden from general emaciation and atrophy of their leg muscles. It is interesting to note that some of the chronic pellagrous lunatics in asylums spending several hours a day in the open air develop a new erythema every spring, which is absent at other times of the year. Yet in these asylums maize is not an article of diet. Complications.—There are certain constant accompaniments of pellagra in every country : extreme poverty, insufficient food - stuff for constant labour, and a general neglect of all hygienic laws. But, in addition, there are several varying factors which weigh down the unfortunate sufferer. In Europe the pellagrous adults are often addicted to alcohol, and are also victims of uncured syphilis and malaria, after which the tubercle bacillus finds them an easy prey. In Egypt alchohol is not a vice of the peasants, but syphilis and malaria may both occur, and an almost constant accompaniment of pellagra is ankylostomiasis, sometimes joined by bilharziosis; other entozoa and favus of the head may also be present, the patient succumb- ing eventually to tubercular disease of the lungs. Morbid Anatomy.—At an autopsy there will at once be seen great emaciation and cachexia, generally with marked anaemia. There may be definite exfoliating patches on the parts of the body exposed to the sun during life, or there may be only a little roughness on those parts, but the skin there, if carefully examined, will be found to be atrophied, and there is a general diminution of subcutaneous fat. Microscopically there is sclerosis of the blood-vessels, papillse, and corium, as well as atrophy of the horny layer. The muscles, heart, liver, spleen, and kidneys share in the general atrophy, but the distribu- tion of pigment described by some authors must, I think, be due to concurrent malaria. The lungs sometimes show tubercular lesions. The stomach reveals no lesion to the eye, but the walls of the intestines are thinner than usual, and show a slight shedding of the superficial layers of the epithelium, with, atrophy of the muscular tissue. There is no ulceration of the intestines. Many naked-eye lesions have been reported by various observers as occur- ring in the brain, but the only constant one is atrophy of the cortex of the convolutions, especially the frontal. The spinal cord shows no decided change until it is prepared and carefully examined. Tuczek, in 1893, fovmd in eight autopsies in Italy that all of them showed symmetrical sclerosis of the columns of Goll. In six cases there was also lateral sclerosis in the dorsal region, and in one case he found cervical anterior sclerosis. Later observers, while confirming the posterior sclerosis, are of opinion that this is perhaps of root origin, and that the increase of the con- nective tissue in the posterior columns is secondary to degeneration of the roots, for in some cases the sclerosis can be seen to be limited to the degenerate root area. About half the cases lately examined show a parenchymatous neuritis, or a chronic interstitial neuritis of the posterior roots. These results are quite in accordance with the clinical symptoms, and