216 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE elements like the Fallopian tube. These relics (" Nebentuben," accessory tubes) sometimes develop as cystic cavities, lined like the tubal canal with ciliated epithelium, and enlarging become what is (falsely, in his opinion) known as parovarian cysts. Sometimes papillomata grow from the epithelial investment, and thus, in Kossmann's opinion, originate the papillo- matous cysts of the broad ligament independent of the ovary. The present author wrote, in 1884, that "it might be contended that some of the minute non-parovarian cysts are developed from Miiller's duct, which ultimately becomes the Fallopian tube. There is no evidence, however, that any true Fallopian cyst has ever been formed." Kossmann, on the other hand, declares that there is not the slightest evidence that a " parovarian " cyst lias ever been actually traced from a dilated parovarian tube. The development of a cyst of this kind from its earliest stage is difficult to note with accuracy. There is need of farther research. When large, the parovarian or simple broad ligament cyst is a very characteristic growth. It occupies the greater part of the mesosalpinx, so that the Fallopian tube and its fimbrise are stretched over its upper surface, whilst the ovary generally hangs freely from its lower surface, but sometimes is stretched or more often extremely flattened through pressure. Occasionally (not so often as in the case of papillomatous cyst of the broad ligament) this cyst burrows into the mesometrium. The wall of the parovarian cyst is often very thin, but proportionally tough and fibrous. It is lined with epitheliimi, often cubical from pressure, but originally, there can be little doubt, columnar and ciliated. It is almost invariably imilocular. It contains a clear watery fluid, often to the amount of several pints, of very low specific gravity, rich in chlorides, but free from albumin. It can be peeled entirely out of the folds of the broad ligament. It is liable to rupture, in which case there is little or no local or constitutional disturbance; indeed, spontaneous cure may ensue. The same has followed tapping. Symptcmis and Diagnosis.—The parovarian cyst often causes nothing but physical symptoms, which last for months without complications. A flaccid or moderately tense cystic swelling develops and rises above the pubis. It is freely movable, and the uterus is quite distinct; in many cases the ovary can also be felt dis- tinctly below it; this proves its true nature. It is very common ; many cases where the ovary is flattened out on its surface have been registered as "ovarian." If neglected it may set up peri- tonitis or may suppurate, and it is certainly apt to imdergo papillomatous degeneration. Treatment.—Keith used to tap parovarian cysts, and in many cases permanent cure ensued. But a cyst of this kind has been tapped seven times, and then had to be removed; it is, too, a morbid growth best taken away, as not rarely it contains papillomatous elements. Its removal is easy and successful, whilst the extir- pation of a papilloma is difficult, dangerous, and not rarely followed by recurrence. It should be removed, therefore, by ovariotomy—that is to say, it must be tapped after exposure through the abdominal wound, drawn out of the abdomen, and its pedicle ligatured and then divided. This pedicle is the same as in ovariotomy. The author has in several cases, where the patient was young, enucleated a parovarian cyst through an incision in the mesosalpinx, afterwards closed by suture. The tube and ovary were thus spared. When the cyst burrows into the mesometrium, below the level of the ovary, enucleation cannot be avoided. There is often much oozing, which must be checked. Pajnllomatoiis cyst of the broad ligament is very similar to papillomatous ovarian cyst already described, but the ovary is uninvolved. Its histogenesis is practically the same, and it certainly may develop from a simple parovarian cyst. It burrows very deeply under the broad ligament, and pushes the uterus far upwards and forwards. It is never freely movable, often fixed, and always lies chiefly on one side. It is apt to produce pain from pressure. By the above characters it may be diagnosed. In shape it is usually oval; it is often bilateral. If left alone it ultimately ruptures, and its papillomatous contents soon become dissemi- nated, with fatal results. This kind of cyst must be removed directly it is diagnosed. It must be carefully and thoroughly enucleated from the broad ligament, hjemorrhage from which must be stopped by the free use of pressure-forceps. Sometimes this process proves easy; as a rule it is difficult, much blood is lost, and papillomatous masses are often left behind deep in the pelvis. The ureter may be torn or cut. In bilateral cases, total removal of the uterus with the cysts may be required; the danger of damaging the ureters is, however, very great if that radical operation be done. The patient should always be placed in the Trendelenburg posture when a papillomatous cyst of the broad ligament is removed, so that plenty of light may be turned on to the pelvic cavity. Solid tumotirs of the broad ligament are noted under Broad Ligament, Diseases of the. " Fibroid " or myoma of the ligament is really distinct from uterine "fibroid," but is iisually classed with that well-known morbid growth. Primary dermoid cyst of pelvic connective tissue is closely allied to the retroperitoneal dermoid which has been found in males (Ord and Sewell, Lexer). It is like to ovarian dermoid cyst, and non-malignant, unlike ovarian teratoma. It of necessity tends to invade the mesometrium.