PARALYSIS 3U most often defective. Of isolated affections of the ocular nerves paralysis of the sixth is the most frequent, though the third may be simi- larly affected, and the fourth occasionally suffers alone. The pupils are usually equal and react normally; but they may be unequal, and, exceptionally, they do not respond to light or on accommodation, the latter being the more common defect. Motor Disorders. — In addition to the dis- turbances of speech and the defects of the ocular muscles, motor disorders occur in the trunk and limbs. The most characteristic of these is a peculiar jerky tremor that appears when a voluntary movement is made, and which ceases when the muscles are brought to rest again. This intention tremor consists in a to-and-fro jerking, which is slowly rhythmical, and which increases in range towards the com- pletion of some voluntary act. It is most often seen in the arms, and may be so violent that a glass of water cannot be raised to the lips with- out its being spilled ; so, too, the patient may be unable to control the tremor sufficiently to be able to touch the point of the nose, or some other object. In slight cases the tremor is only observed towards the completion of some such act, and it is much smaller in range. Similar unsteadiness may be seen in the neck muscles, so that the head shakes as long as it is sup- ported on the shoulders, but all tremor ceases immediately the head is allowed to rest on a pillow. Tremor of the trunk may be observed when the patient is sitting or standing, and tremor may be so pronounced in the lower extremities that standing becomes impossible. The facial muscles may be similarly affected, the nystagmus is of this character, and even the vocal cords may present the same defect, which may be evidenced by a tremulous char- acter of the voice, and which may be seen on laryngoscopic examination. Motor paralysis is a constant feature of the disease ; but the degree and distribution of the motor weakness varies greatly in different cases ; moreover, remissions and exacerbations occur in the same patient, more especially in the earlier stage of the malady. It is not common for severe paralysis to result; all movements can usually be performed, though in a slow and feeble way, and fatigue is as a rule readily induced. The lower extremities ai'e most often affected, but the arms are almost as frequently involved. In the former the weakness is com- bined with spasticity, and in the latter with intention tremor — a combination that is also present in the neck, and which probably ac- counts for the speech defect in disseminated sclei'osis. Palsies also occur in the distribution of the cranial nerves, so that in addition to affection of the ocular muscles, those supplied by the facial nerve, the muscles of mastication, tongue, palate, and vocal cords may all suffer. Gait.—There may be inability to stand or walk, but when progression is possible the gait is most often paretic, and there is some spasticity and ataxy as well; either of the added factors may be the prominent feature, so that the gait may be mainly spastic, or markedly ataxic. When there is ataxy it may be of the form seen in tabes, in which the feet are raised too high and the heels are stamped to the ground, or the inco-ordination may be more of the character of that seen in cerebellar disease. The two limbs may be affected differently, or only one may show any defect at first, and rapid variations may occur in the gait as in other symptoms of the disease. Muscular Rigidity.—The muscles commonly become spastic, especially those of the lower limbs, though the muscles of the upper extremi- ties also show some evidence of this. Extensor spasm preponderates in the lower extremities at first, but later in the course of the disease the flexors gain the ascendency, so that the heels may be pressed against the nates, and limbs become fixed in this position in a state of contracture. Tendon-Jerks.—The tendon-jerks are as a rule increased, both in the upper and lower limbs, and it may even be possible to evoke an active jaw-jerk. Ankle clonus is commonly present. Sensory defects are usually present in some form. A feeling of giddiness is common, and may be more or less persistent, or it may only occur in paroxysms; the quieter the patient can remain, the greater the freedom from giddi- ness, as movement of any kind aggravates the condition. Headache and pain in the back may be troublesome symptoms, and cramp-like pains may occur in the limbs, and cause the patient much suffering; but lancinating pains, girdle sensations, and gastric crises are rare. Subjective sensations of numbness and the like are common in the parts presided over by both cranial and spinal nerves, though the hands and feet are the parts most frequently affected in this way. Although a subjective feeling of numbness may be pronounced it may not be possible to detect any objective blunting of sensibility in the part; but when discovered, aniesthesia is usually most marked in the hands and feet. Some antesthesia is more commonly present than was at one time supposed, but it is subject to such great variations that it is not surprising that it often escapes detection. Although permanent anaesthesia may occur, a part that shows distinct blunting of sensibility at one time may appear to be quite jesthetic on another occasion. There may be blunting of sensibility to all forms of impressions, or there may be more difficulty in appreciating one form of stimulus than another. Hemiana;sthesia may be present, and may be the direct outcome of the disease, or it may be an added hysterical phenomenon.