PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION 485 pression, and the effects noted in controlling spontaneity and in co-ordinated action. Control through rnuscle sense is an important means of impressing the brain; muscular con- traction sends a stimulus up to the brain, thus producing eifects often mental in character. Muscle sense is exerted in two ways — (1) Contraction of muscles leads to mental action and expression when objects are counted by eye-movements, or their size is felt by the fingers as apart from sight, when length and measurements are felt; also in touching parts of the face or indicating the position of the limbs. (2) Tension of muscle produces expres- sion after feeling and comparing weights held in the open hand, when the degree of strain on the muscles is expressed in words, or when the degree of pressure made by the fingers is indicated. Compound Cerebration.—Expression by move- ment, or by words following a single sensory stimulus, may be complex, and so far diff'erent from the primary impression received as to indicate clearly that it is not an act of simple imitation or repetition, but is due to interaction among the brain-centres. In imitation the centres corresponding to those active in the brain of the person imitated come into activity one after another, guided by each movement seen as it occurs. In the complex action referred to we must infer that the primary stimulus is followed by nerve currents passing from certain nerve-cells to others, in turn to be finally succeeded by expression in action well adapted by the sensory impression. The relation of the primary stimulus to the final action can only be interpreted as an interaction among the brain-centres occurring during the pause for response. Retentiveness is expressed in repeating a movement exactly as it was performed on a previous occasion; when this follows a direction given, the action indicates some memory and intelligence. Any act of memory is due to the revived activity of impressions pi-eviously received and retained in the nerve-centres producing expression by words or actions. Co-ordinated action is expressed when a series of acts is obviously controlled by the environ- ment, as by a direction given, or when it so far resembles similar action performed previously as shows it to be due to past impressions and acquired experience. Thus a number of acts follow one another, due either to immediate sensory control or to the interaction of the nerve-centres among one another, suggesting their connection by nerve pathways previously formed. Spreading area of brain action is expressed by an increasing area of movement seen, and probably indicates a greater discharge of force from nerve-cells than co-ordinated action does. We have no unit of measure for nerve force expended in action : it seems probable that the nerve energy spent is partly that proceeding to the muscles, and in part that producing new nerve pathways, as to the physiology of which we are ignorant. Response may immediately follow the stimulus eliciting it, or there may be a prolonged pause of inhibitory action; there is usually no delay in simple motor response, but a pause for thought (attention) is common, and it may be inferred that during the interval of time there is a process of interaction among the brain- centres (compound cerebration), sometimes accompanied by spreading brain action (mental confusion). Motor response is seen in reflex action without delay; this is similarly repeated on application of the same stimulus; a higher mode is evidenced when co-ordinated action follows a simple direction or command without further guidance. The study of expression, movements, and individual nerve signs, enables us to give descriptions of what may be seen indicative of various brain conditions, while physiology and the principles of cerebral localisation enable us to interpret these observations and draw inferences from the facts. In such descriptions we say what we look at and what we see in the face and the hand, etc., then classify the neuro- motor signs seen in succession, and proceed to record the general character of the brain status. Physiognomy and expression, when studied in association with the brain power and health of the individual, show relations among these conditions of great clinical interest. The facts here presented suggest principles by which we may be guided in making inferences as to modes of brain action in various mental states, as well as in conditions of brain disturbance. We need to be acquainted with (1) the frequency of occurrence of each developmental and nerve sign, and (2) their correlations in age-groups for each sex; such facts have been given earlier in this article concerning defects of the cranium, and tables affording similar information as to other developmental conditions and nerve signs I have given elsewhere. The correlations are sufficiently constant and uniform to be useful as guides to prognosis; they vary with sex often to a marked degree, and also in the age- groups among children. The more imusual or infrequent developmental conditions are often the most abnormal, as indicated by their higher correlations. The intimate relations that have been shown to exist between conditions of development, health of body, and the modes of brain action, indicate the usefulness of studying physiognomy and expression as aids to diagnosis, etiology, prognosis, and pathology. Children of the neurotic type are usually marked by good physiognomy, with a tendency to spreading