130 NURSERY HYGIENE •still better plan of disposing of soiled napkins is to burn them at once on removal; but if this is practised the napkin should consist of a triangular-shaped piece of soft Gamgee tissue, which can readily be made in the household ■or can be obtained ready made and stitched (knapkinettes). No napkin must be applied tightly. The binder is required to keep the ■dressing on the navel, and when the navel cord is separated it is no longer required. The broad flannel bandage which is usually applied round the abdomen of infants is of use as a protection from cold, but applied as it often is, it compresses the lower part of the chest, pre- venting or hindering the expansion of the lower lobes of the lungs. There can be no good, and much harm may be done in bandaging the infant up tightly. The abdomen varies in girth from time to time, according to the dis- tension of the intestines with gas, and an elastic open material is much better for a covering than an unyielding bandage. A Shetland wool ab- dominal belt fulfils every purpose, and cannot compress or overload the abdomen. With re- gard to the other articles of clothing, they should be warm and loose, being constructed for utility rather than show. The infant's " long clothes " should be placed in a museum as relics of antiquity: they are very inconvenient and useless. If the garments are made to reach three inches below the feet, they will be long enough for warmth and comfort. It is advis- able to have the clothes cut so that they all open in front or all open behind, not some in front and some behind ; this is done as being more convenient in dressing and undressing, there being no occasion to turn the infant first on its back and then on its face. Shetland woollen vests and overalls of the same material are useful to cover the legs and thigh and enclose the napkin. Knitted woollen socks should be worn, especially in winter. The shoes should be of soft material and of rational shape, so as not to compress the toes. When the child ■can run about sandals may be worn in the house, but they are hardly fit for our climate out of doors, except perhaps during a summer holiday at the seaside. By ten months or a year, if the infant has been properly trained, the napkin may be dispensed with during the daytime, as accidents will be rare, though it may be still required at night. When the napkin has been abolished a Shetland wool com- bination worn next to the skin is very suitable for wear. A knitted woollen cap of a Tam-o'- Shanter or buccaneer shape for winter, and a soft straw hat for summer, are much preferable for outdoor wear to most of the headgears made specially for infants. By the time the infant is beginning to crawl about and attempting to walk, the frock and inner garments are shortened so as not to im- pede locomotion. It is a great convenience at this time to be able to do away with the napkin, as it is always slipping and coming off. The legs and buttocks want protection, and woollen or flannel drawers should be provided ; but much trouble comes from wetting if the child has not been properly trained and tended, and much washing and shrinking of woollen garments is the result. Parents rarely take much trouble with regard to the make and shape of children's boots and shoes, and the ordinary boot salesman cares for nothing but smartness in his wares. It is possible, however, to have a good selection of rationally shaped boots and shoes for both boys and girls, which will not unduly raise the heel and compress the toes. Fresh Air.—No infant or child thrives if it is kept indoors in stuffy rooms for weeks and months together. This is certainly true of infants in hospitals as well as in private houses. If the weather is favourable, the newly-born infant, if strong and vigorous, may be taken out in its nurse's arms by the end of the first week. If the weather is cold it may be warmly dressed and taken for a walk in a warmed room with the windows thrown open, so as to accustom it to the fresh air. When a few weeks old it should go out daily in its carriage, and if the weather is cold a warm water-bottle should be provided. The child's carriage should have four wheels, be mounted on good springs, and arranged so that the infant's airing is taken lying down. Mail-carts are all very well for older children, but for infants under a year or eighteen months the sitting-up position is too trying, and they often want to sleep when in the open air. Sleep.—The newly-born infant usually sleeps most of the first few days of its life ; it is some time in shaking off the lethargy of prenatal life. This drowsiness is especially well marked after a prolonged labour and in infants who are born prematurely, and it is probably due to the effects of imperfectly aerated blood. All through infancy the healthy infant spends much of its time in sleep, and it is well for all con- cerned that it does so. It wakes up hungry and cries, its hunger is appeased by food, and it shortly drops off to sleep again ; usually the waking hours during the first few weeks of life do not amount to more than three or four. After the first month the infant is more alive to its surroundings, especially during the daytime, but it should sleep continuously from eleven at night, after being fed, till four or five the following morning and some sixteen or eighteen hours out of the twenty-four. At six months of age the healthy infant has gradually undergone a "mind awakening," and is no longer con- tent to sleep the livelong day when there is so much of movement and change going on around it; it requires, however, one or two naps during the day, and should sleep continuously through