48 NEUROSES, OCCUPATION employment of the special movements called for by the occupation or trade concerned, and by no other, the same muscles being capable of being used normally for all other movements. The disease must then be sharply distinguished from many craft palsies which are due to local muscular wasting, such as the wasting of the hand muscles, which may occur in many trades, and from diseases directly due to some toxic element in the particular trade, such as lead neuritis in painters, brassfounder's ague from inhalation of the fumes of deflagrated zinc, mercurial tremor, etc. Even more carefully must fatigue spasm be distinguished from local muscular weakness and pain due to early organic disease as neuritis, syringomyelia, or new growths. Etiology. — Writer's cramp, or scrivener's palsy, is by far the most common of these dis- tressing affections, but other forms met with are violin and violoncello players' cramp, pianoforte player's cramp, sempstress's cramp, telegraphist's, sawyer's, milker's, tailor's, treadler's, compositor's, ballet-dancer's, cigarette-maker's, card-player's, letter-sorter's, knitter's, and hammerman's or smith's cramp, miner's and mountaineer's nystag- mus, clarionet and flute players'and glass-blower's spasm of the lips, and indeed many others. Spasm of the hand in barbers, when holding the razor, has been recorded, and I have also met with a case of typical occupation neurosis in a hair- dresser aged nineteen—numbness and marked weakness in the right hand, with pain in the wrist and forearm after work, followed three weeks later by cramp and spasm of the hand muscles, occurring in the mornings, and lasting for some hours daily. The symptoms did not commence until he had followed his employ- ment for three years, and was therefore perfectly accustomed to haircutting. This point is typical of all the occupation neuroses, that the spasm and pain are not developed during the learning of the art or trade, when the muscular effort and attention involved are the greatest, but in the stage of perfection of manipulation, when the act has become practically automatic. Writing Neurosis.—Writer's cramp forms the large majority of all cases of occupation neurosis, and occurs especially in those who are accus- tomed to do their writing in a cramped style, holding the pen low down near the nib, and taking the little finger as the fixed point, in order to produce " copper-plate" writing, by various movements of the thenar and inter- osseous muscles. It is writing in this cramped style for long periods at a time which especially predisposes to the affection ; and lawyer's clerks, and others who gain their livelihood by copying in a clear hand, form a large proportion of the siiffercrs. Shorthand writers and others who cultivate a free style of writing from the shoulder and elbow scarcely ever suffer from this com- plaint. Neuropathic heredity plays an import- ant part in the development of these neuroses, and there is often a history of epilepsy or insanity, asthma, torticollis, hysteria, or even writer's cramp itself, occurring in other members of the family—for example, five members of one family I have met with suffered from writer's cramp; or the patient himself may suffer from migraine, convulsive tic, or stuttering. Anxiety, business worry, or other prolonged mental stress may predispose to its development, while a similar result may be precipitated by local injury of the limb, such as a sprain or perio- stitis, or after recovery from an attack of hemiplegia or any debilitating illness. The excitement produced by attending a spiritualist seance has been known to be followed by the development of writing spasm, and indeed by many other psychoses and neuroses. The large majority of sufferers are of the male sex, and between twenty and fifty years of age. Females only occasionally suffer, probably on account of their daily bread not often depending on writing day by day for hours, and the prognosis when such trouble does occur is con- sequently better than in most men, who usually find it more difficult to put aside the daily toil and take the rest from the harmful employment that is absolutely essential to a cure. Heredity is more commonly observed when a woman is the sufferer. Symptoms.—The onset is almost invariably gradual, though cases of sudden onset after many hours' continuous writing have been recorded. The first symptom in writer's cramp is usually spasm of the thumb or index finger while writing, so that the pen is not guided quite properly, unintentional strokes are made, or the pen may be dropped or driven into the paper. The writing thus becomes jerky and illegible, owing to the fingers and thumb grip- ping the pen too forcibly, and the pen slipping between the first and second fingers. The writ- ing becomes slower and more and more of an effort, and sooner or later pain is noticed either in the finger or thumb, or in the front of the wrist or forearm. This pain, which sometimes is the initial symptom, is aching in character, and is excited at first only by the particular move- ments that are affected, as in writing ; but later, if the writing or other handicraft be persisted in, the pain and spasm may affect other move- ments, or sometimes the pain alone may extend and affect almost every movement of the arm. Tenderness of the nerves in places is common, and tremor may occasionally be very marked. In one case of hammerman's cramp that I have met with, the tremor was so persistent and extensive in the affected hand and forearm as to suggest at first the diagnosis of paralysis agitans. Other sensory symptoms may be tingling or formication of the hand and even of the leg on the same side. Hypergesthesia of one side and heraiansesthesia of functional type