516 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Cardiac muscle physiologically resembles other visceral muscles, but its period of contraction is shorter and its rhythm generally more rapid. 4. Death of Muscle The death of the muscle is not simultaneous with the death of the individual. For some time after somatic death the muscles remain alive and are capable of contraction under stimulation. Gradually, however, their irrita- bility diminishes and finally disappears. They are then dead, and necrobiotic changes begin. The first of these—Rigor Mortis — is a disin- tegrative chemical change whereby carbon di- oxide and sarcolactic acid are set free, and, at the same time, the soluble myosinogen changes to the insoluble myosin and the muscle becomes contracted, less extensile, less elastic, and more opaque. The contraction is a feeble one, and since it afl^ects flexors and extensors equally, it does not generally alter the position of the limbs, although it may sometimes do so. As these changes occur, heat is evolved and the muscles become warmer. The time of onset of rigor varies with the condition of the muscles. If they have been very active just before death stiffening tends to appear rapidly. It lasts for a period which varies with the species of animal and with the condition of the muscles, and as it disappears the muscles again become soft, and the body becomes limp. In all probability this latter change is due to a solution of the myosin by an enzyme like that of the stomach—pepsin—which seems to exist in all the tissues. This can act only in the presence of an acid, and the appearance of sarco- lactic acid, therefore, allows it to come into play. II. Nerve It is through the nerves that our surround- ings act upon us, and through nerves that our muscles are made to respond appropriately to the surrounding conditions. 1. Structure and Development In unicellular organisms changes in the sur- roundings act directly on the cell protoplasm, e.g. an amoeba, when touched, draws itself together. But, even ^ in these simplest organisms, cer- ^ tain kinds of external conditions will produce one kind of change, while others will produce a dif- f , 1. 1 1 • FlO. 35.—To show lerent one, as has been shown m extremities considering unilateral stimulation (p. 493). Even among unicellular organisms— e.g. among the infusoria—animals are found in which the cell is differentiated into a receiving and reacting part. Poteriodendron, a little in- fusorian sitting in a cup-like frame, consists of a long process or cilium extending up from a cell while a contractile myoid attaches the cell to the floor of the cup. When the cilium is touched the myoid contracts, and draws the creature into the protection of its covering. In more complex multicellular organisms, e.g. in medusa, the different parts are connected to one another by a network of protoplasmic strands, which bring each part into relationship with the others, and thus secure co-ordinate reaction to any stimu- lus. A similar network exists and performs important func- tions in the wall of the alimen- tary canal of vertebrates. In more highly organised animals, where the reaction has to be more definitely appropriate to the surroimding conditions, and where the complexity of the 34, _ Poterio- mechanism involved is greater, dendron to iiius- fcrate tlie first there is a development by which stage in the evoiu- special co7iditions at special parts muscular sys^tem of the surface each lead to special reactions. This is brought about by the establishment of a nervous system—a mechanism which may be compared to a series of shunting stations between the receptive mechanism on the surface and the reacting mechanism—the muscles, glands, etc. To form this, a part of the epithelial covering of the embryo sinks in- wards as a canal composed of the surface cells, and these cells form functional connections with the surface on the one hand and with the react- ing structures on the other. At first the cells composing this tube are undifferentiated and alike, but later some of them throw out pro- cesses towards the surface and others towards the reacting structures, and these are connected, not by actual continuity, but by coming in close relationship to one another in a series of branch- ing processes, forming a synapsis (Fig. 35). Each of the units so formed has been called a neuron ; and a neuron may be defined as one of the cells with all its processes which build up the nervous system. These neurons may be divided into the receiving and reacting series, but in structure they are alike. The shape and characters of the cells, and a receiving (c)and a reading neuron (a), each with dendrites at its , and their connection to one another tlirough a synapsis (fi). their position upon the processes of the neuron —the fibres—^vary greatly, but they have all the following characters in common:—They are nucleated protoplasts, the protoplasm of which shows a well-marked network, in the meshes of which a material which stains deeply with basic stains, and which seems to be used