PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUKO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 559 Outgoing Fibres. — Somatic and splanchnic fibres pass out, the latter being characterised by their small size, and by forming synapses before their final distribution. The XII. (Hypoglossus) is purely an anterior root nerve, and is motor to the muscles of the tongue. The X. (Vagus), and the XL (Spinal Acces- sory) are practically one nerve, consisting partly of posterior and partly of anterior root fibres. The vagus is the great ingoing nerve from the abdomen, thorax, larynx, and gullet, while, by outgoing fibres, passing through it or through the accessorius, it is augmentor for the muscles of the bronchi and alimentary canal, inhibitory to the heart, dilator to blood-vessels of the thorax and abdomen, and motor to the muscles of the larynx and to the levator palati. The accessorius is also motor to the sterno-cleido mastoid and trapezius. The IX. (Glossopharyngeus) is essentially a posterior root, and is the ingoing nerve for the back of the mouth, the Eustachian tube, and tympanic cavity. It transmits outgoing fibres which are motor to the stylo-pharyngeus and middle constrictor of the pharynx. The VII. (Facial) is almost purely an an- terior root, transmitting the motor fibres to the muscles of expression, and secretory fibres to the submaxillary and sublingual glands and the glands of the mouth. It, however, carries ingoing fibres from the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. The V. (Trigeminal) is chiefly a posterior root, but it has a distinct anterior or motor root which joins it, and carries the motor fibres to the muscles of mastication. It is the great ingoing nerve for all the face. The VI. (Abducens) supplies the external rectus of the eye. The IV. (Trochlearis) supplies the superior oblique. The III. (Oculo-motorius) supplies all the muscles of the eye except those sup- plied by VI. and IV. The anterior part of the nucleus consists of small cells, and gives off fibres to the sphincter pupilte and ciliary muscles. The fibres coming from the nuclei of these cranial nerves do not always pass out in the nerve itself. Thus, fibres from the nucleus of the III. to the orbicularis oculi pass out in the VII., while fibres for the posterior belly of the digastric which pass out in the VII. probably come from the nucleus of the XII. 4. Reflexes of the Medulla The extensive series of synapses in the medulla form arrangements by which various combined and co-ordinated movements are controlled. Thus, part of the nucleus of the vagus governs the movements of respiration, while other parts preside over the slowing mechanism of the heart. To these various reflex arrangements the name of centres has been given, and their mode of action will be considered when dealing with the mechanism of circulation, respiration, and digestion. C. Region op Pons Varolii This region consists of the upper part of the medulla embraced by the transverse fibres of the middle peduncles of the cerebellum (Fig. 96). Outgoing Fibres.—1. The fibres to the face muscles cross the middle line to become asso- ciated with the various nuclei of the cranial nerves. For this reason a tumour in one side of the pons may cause paralysis of the face I muscles on one side and of the muscles of the Fig. 95.—Cross section through region of pons, cerebellum, and fourth ventricle. S.V., Superior vermis; R.N., roof nucleus; Dent., dentate nucleus; Rest., restiform body; S.P., superior peduncle of cerebellum; Deit., Deiters' nucleus; VI., nucleus of the sixth nerve; F., lillet; S.O., superior olive; D.T. and S. T., deep and superficial transverse fibres ; P., pyramidal fibres. (After Bruce.) rest of the body on the opposite side. 2. Fibres to the limbs and trunk run down between the deep and superficial transverse fibres (Fig. 96,P.). Ingoing Fibres.—The fillet fibres in the pons, instead of running up on each side of the middle line, spread out into a horizontal arrangement above the crossed fibres (Fig. 96, F.). The nucleus of Deiters and the nuclei of various cranial nerves lie in this region of the brain. The connections of the transverse fibres are considered on p. 558. D. Cerebellum Structure. — The cerebellum (Fig. 86) or lesser brain lies above the fourth ventricle, and is joined to the cerebro-spinal axis by three