325 PARALYSIS acterised by the rapid onset of paralysis, often from trifling causes. The paralysis after a longer or shorter time often disappears rapidly, sometimes instantaneously. The nature of the paralysis is frequently such as to render its explanation by any conceivable organic lesion difficult or impossible. While the signs and symptoms commonly met with in organic disease are absent, certain peculiar symptoms, char- acteristic of hysteria, are often present. No organic disease which could account for such symptoms has been found. There is no single symptom or physical sign the presence of which proves the nature of any given case of paralysis to be functional. On the other hand, there are many physical signs and symptoms the presence of which absolutely excludes from the category of functional para- lysis. The failure of pathological investigation to reveal any morbid changes in the organs does not justify the inclusion of a disease into this group, for the term is here used arbitrarily for a clinical group, and not in its true etymo- logical sense. As examples, epilepsy, chorea, and paralysis agitans, which are distinct from the class of diseases here described, are without discovered morbid lesions, and the first two are eminently " functional" diseases in the etymo- logical sense of the word. There are, further, two important considera- tions in the recognition of functional paralysis. First, that long-standing functional paralysis sometimes leads to degenerative changes in the elements of the nervous system supplying the affected region, and such degenerative changes may be progressive. When these take place the clinical picture may acquire an organic aspect, and the autopsy reveal gross tissue changes. Secondly, functional paralysis may be not infrequently an early symptom of organic disease, especially of the disease disseminated sclerosis ; it is then, as a rule, accompanied by some distinctive organic sign. Etiology.—The disease is much more common in females than in males, and most frequently occurs in young adult life, from the time of puberty to the age of thirty-five years. It has occurred as early as the fifth year, and in females is sometimes first manifested as late as the time of the menopause. Neuropathic her- edity is frequent. Among parents and relations of the patient are often found hysteria, epilepsy, insanity, chorea, and " nervousness." The dis- ease is more common in Latin than in Saxon races, and a fair proportion of cases occur amongst the Jews. The patients themselves frequently present signs of a neuropathic tendency. In children, precocity and mental instability or impairment are often present. In adults, often the symptoms of hysteria are present, and there is always some mental in- stability. Some of the cases, after years, become mentally deranged, and occasionally organic nervous disease in some form ap- pears, presumably from the same neuropathic tendency to which the functional symptoms are attributable. Predisposing causes are often absent, but in some patients a cause for general deterioration of health is evident, and this may be any acute disease, especially influenza, anaemia, dyspepsia, privation, long hours, and overwork. By far the most important exciting causes are me'ntal emotion, shocks, and physical injuries, the latter being often slight. Long-continued anxiety, disappointments, money losses, bereavements, sudden frights, railway and carriage accidents are frequently the immediate precursors of the paralysis. It the recent South African war several cases arose from slight bullet wounds. The disease is sometimes attributable to pelvic trouble, especially where this has required much local treatment. In cases where symptoms first arrive in middle life, alcoholism, and in women the menopause, are probable important factors. Clinical Aspect.—Functional paralysis may afi'ect almost any part of the voluntary muscles of the body. The result may be slight or severe paralysis, but rarely complete paralysis as regards a whole limb. In slight forms there may be weakness with ataxy or with tremor. In the more severe forms the paralysis may be flaccid or spastic, and in the latter case there are usually contractures. It is impossible to describe functional spasm separately from func- tional paralysis, as where spasm exists there is paralysis in effect. The distribution of functional paralysis is either hemiplegic, paraplegic, or monoplegic. In this country functional paraplegia is the more common. Functional Hemiplegia. — The paralysis affects one side of the body, more frequently the left, and may be flaccid or spastic. The arm and leg may be uniformly affected, or the affection of the leg may preponderate, but the face is never affected in flaccid palsy and seldom in spastic palsy. In the latter case there may be contracture of the face and con- tracture of the tongue on protrusion, so that that organ is held with its non-affected side transversely between the lips. The neck and trunk muscles are rarely affected. In the slight flaccid cases there may be simply general weakness with capacity to perform each move- ment ; in the more severe cases there may be inability to raise the limb off the bed. The paralysis may be complete but for the move- ment of one muscle, and the movement of that muscle may be normal. For instance, a woman with complete flaccid paralysis of the left leg, without wasting, and with a normal knee-jerk and electric excitability, was always able to extend the great toe. She could perform this act with great rapidity. Such an act was