PARASITES 349 head are specially developed, so as to form suckers or suctorial grooves, and in some species to form also an apical rostellum which has one or more circlets of hooks on its outer surface. The youngest proglottides—those nearest the head—present no reproductive organs, but each of the older proglottides has both male and female sexual organs, the orifices of which open usually in close contiguity to one another at the bottom of a genital sinus, the orifice of which is termed the genital pore. In each proglottis there are nvimerous testes, whilst of the female reproductive organs that most readily recognised is the uterus, which in many of the tapeworms consists of a median canal with several lateral branches.^ Development of the Cestodes.—All the adult cestodes inhabit the intestinal canal of the definitive host and produce numerous eggs. Within each egg there develops a globular six- hooked embryo or oncosphere which, in the case of the Bothriocephalidae, is covered with cilia. The eggs are evacuated with the faeces of the host, but further development occurs only after the embryo within its shell gains entrance into a suitable intermediate host. When carried into the stomach of this host the shell is digested, and the embryo being liberated penetrates the stomach wall, and either settles down in the body cavity of the host, or, as is more frequently the case, is carried by the venous or lymphatic channels to other parts of the body In either case the eiubryo having reached its ultimate destination becomes trans- formed into a larva. In the Bothriocephalidse the embryo develops directly into a larva which closely resembles the scolex of the adult worm. In all the other tapeworms of man the embryo is first transformed into a vesicle (less often into a solid mass), and within this one or more scolices or heads are, as it were, budded off. Some weeks or months are, as a rule, required for the complete development of the larva. If one scolex is formed from the wall of such a vesicle the whole larva is termed a Cysticercus, if more than one scolex is formed directly within a vesicle the larva is known as a Ccenurus, whereas if the scolices be formed from special sacs within the vesicle the larva is designated an Echinococcus. If the scolex develops not within a true vesicle, but in a solid larva, this larva is known as a Cysticercoid. Cysticercoids are found solely in cold-blooded animals, espe- cially in insects and molluscs. The scolex of each larva is a representation in miniature of the head of the adult tapeworm, and is usually retracted within the vesicle (Fig. 18), but if the scolex be protruded the vesicle appears as an appendage or " caudal bladder." The cystic 1 The form of the uterus is readily seen if one or more proglottides are placed for a few minutes in a watch- glass containing glycerine, and then subjected to slight pressure between a slide and large cover-glass. Syn.: T. larvse are therefore known as bladder worms. The size of the vesicle varies greatly in different species. Cysticercus tenuicollis of ruminants (the cystic larva of Taenia marginata of the dog) is often as large as a hen's egg or an orange, Coenurus cerebralis of sheep (the larva of Tcenia ccenurus of the dog) may be as large as a hen's egg, but Cysticercus cellulosce of man is seldom an inch in its greatest diameter. If a larva be ingested by a suitable host the caudal vesicle is digested, the scolex is set free, and after attaching itself by its suckers and hooks to the intestinal mucous membrane it buds off successive proglottides from its distal extremity. Tapeworms are therefore acquired solely by ingestion of the associated larvae. Cestodes both in the adult and larval stages are harboured by man. There are a number of different adult tapeworms for consideration, but only two larval species—Cysticercus cellulosce and Echinococcus polymorphus. Tcenia scujinata (Goze, 1782 7nediocanellata (Kiichenmeister, 1855); r. iWnws (Brera, 1802); etc.—This is the largest taenia found in man, and may attain a length of 12 to 24 feet or more. The head is somewhat cubical, measures l"5-2 mm. in trans- verse diameter, has neither ros- tellum nor hooks, but has four hemispherical suckers, each of which is surrounded by blackish pigment. The thickness of the neck is less than that of the head. There are about 1000- 1300 proglottides, larger than those of T. solium. Sexual maturity is attained at about the 500th segment. The mature separated segments are 16-20 ^ga^^ata i*u mm. long, 4-8 mm. broad. The contracted con- ditioii { X 8^ uterus has on each side about (After Leuckart.) 20-35 lateral branches, each of which again branches dichotomously. The pro- minent genital papilla is situated laterally just behind the centre of each proglottis, alternating from right to left in successive proglottides, but often very ir- regularly ar- ranged. The eggs, which closely resemble those of T. sol- mm, are almost spherical, about 25-30 /X in diameter; the shell is thick, of a brownish-yellow colour, has radiate markings, and each egg contains a six-hooked embryo or oncosphere. Malformations are not uncommon in this species; the most frequent is the pris- matic or triangular strobilus, a transverse section of which resembles the letter Y. Fig. 11.—Eggs of T. saginata. Mosler and Peiper.) (After