473 PHARYNX—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES notice until the throat is examined in making a diagnosis of the cutaneous eruption which appears about the same time. The soft palate along its free border and the pillars of the fauces are the parts attacked, and a fairly sharp line of demarcation serves to distinguish the erythema from similar eruptions. Mucous patches usually appear within six weeks to three months of the infection, but they may appear at any time in the course of the disease. The patches are but slightly raised, and present a greyish-white or mauve appearance along the margins of the soft palate, uvula, and pillars of the fauces, and the surface of the tonsils, but are not commonly met with on the pharyngeal wall. Superficial ulceration is generally placed amongst the secondary manifestations of the disease. It is difficult to lay down definite characteristics of these ulcers. They may form a later stage of a mucous patch or of a small gumma. They are commonly oval, elongated with a dirty sloughy base, and have a tendency to a serpiginous arrangement. They may have to be diagnosed from tuberculous ulcei-ation, which is rare. Occasionally one sees in the upper part of the tonsil a condition sinmlating a specific oval ulcer, which is not an ulcer at all, the appearance being due to the deposit of muco-pus from a follicle in one of the furrows which commonly exist in the upper part of the tonsil. This condition has been described as following an attack of tonsillitis, and is liable to be mistaken as evidence of specific disease. Gummatous tumours must be regarded as one of the rarer manifestations of the disease. A distinct tumour may present on the hard palate, or on the pharyngeal wall; more com- monly it has broken down, and i-esulted in deep ulceration when it comes under treatment. Deep ulceration may occur in any part of the fauces and pharynx, and the appearances are too well known to need further description. It must not be forgotten that deep destructive ulceration, the result of hereditary syphilis, may occur early in life. Mention must also be made of congenital gaps and malformations in the structures of the fauces, which at times have been erroneously regarded as evidence of past specific disease. The treatment of syphilis when it affects these regions is essentially the same as when other regions are attacked. Tuberculosis.—Having regard to the frequency with which tuberculosis is met with in the larynx, the manifestation of the disease in the fauces and pharynx may undoubtedly be spoken of as of rare occurrence. There is not suificient data to prove that the region we are considering is ever the site of a primary infection. In the cases recorded it has generally been associated with the disease in the lungs and larynx. When no signs pointing to pulmonary tuberculosis have existed at the time the disease was diag- nosed in the pharynx, they have subsequently developed, so that it is reasonable to infer that deposition of tubercle had previously taken place in the lungs. The onset of the disease is usually insidious, and if the larynx is not also materially aff'ected the symptoms may not be sufficiently marked to bring the patient under observation until the stage of ulceration has been reached. Ulcera- tion is attended with the usual symptoms of sore throat, and deglutition becomes difficult. Owing to the paresis of the soft palate resulting from the infiltration and ulceration, food and drink find their way into the nasal chambers. Symptoms and signs of the pulmonary disease are commonly also present, and the larynx may be so extensively involved as to overshadow the symptoms produced by the faucial disease. A case in its earlier stages, before it is blurred by the results of ulceration, afi^ords an ex- ceptional opportunity for the clinical study of the development of tubercle. The velum, im- mediately adjacent to the base of the uvula, is usvially the starting-point, and thence the dis- ease spreads by continuity. The pathological process is essentially the same as when tubercle develops in the larynx; it commences in the submucosa and gradually spreads outwards. Small greyish-white nodules appear projecting on the surface of the palate, which generally presents some degree of pallor. The nodules break down, leaving minute points of ulceration which coalesce and give the velum a peculiar mouse-nibbled appearance. The area affected increases and becomes coated with a sloughy membranous deposit, which upon being wiped away leaves a raw bleeding surface. The pro- cess may be rapidly destructive, and its char- acteristic features proportionately less distinct. The diagnosis of the disease in its earlier stage may be confounded with that of diph- theria. In a case that came ander my notice, the patient had been certified as suffering from diphtheria, and had been under observation in a fever hospital for several days, hut the bac- teriological examinations of the throat were negative of diphtheria. The clinical appear- ances of the fauces were, one need scarcely add, very suggestive of diphtheria. Scrapings from the palate, however, revealed tubercle bacilli; the lungs and larynx also gave evidence of tuberculosis. In the more advanced cases, syphilis is perhaps the disease from which the diagnosis would have to be made. The points of difference are briefly these : in secondary syphilis the ulcers are elongated and oval, and tend to spread along the margin of the palate from immediately above the tonsils towards the uvula; in tuberculosis the ulcers are minute and circular, and commonly radiate outwards from the base of the uvula. In syphilis the palate is reddened, in tuberculosis pallid, and