PHARMACOLOGY 455 nature are found. The most important of these are atropine and its isomer hyoscyamine, and hyoscine or scopolamine. Some of the other bodies — e.g. duboisine and daturine — which were formerly regarded as allied substances, are now thought to be merely combinations of these. Atropine is broken up by alkalis into Tropine and Tropic acid, and by substituting other acids for the latter an artificial series of alkaloids, named Tropeines, has been formed. Homatropine is the only one of these which has so far found a place in therapeutics. Atropine has a very extensive influence on the functions of the body. It profoundly affects the secretions, the circulation, unstriped muscles, and the pupil. Action on the Secretions.— Glandiilar activity is decreased by atropine, not from any interference with the cells them- selves but from peripheral paralysis of the terminations of the secretory nerves. This action extends to the salivary and other glands of the mouth and respiratory tract, to the glands of the stomach, and the sweat glands, of all of which the function is arrested by atropine. In the case of the salivary glands only the terminations of the chorda tympani are affected, the sympathetic fibres being spared. The pancreas and mamma, which continue to secrete after all their nerves are divided, are partially independent of the nervous system, and in so far escape the paralysing influence of the drug, though they too have their fimction diminished. The kidney is not influenced by atropine, save in so far as the secretion of urine is governed by the activity or otherwise of other organs. Action on the Circulation. — The terminations of the vagus in the heai't are paralysed, and in consequence the beat becomes more rapid. Systole is in- creased, and the output of the heart becomes greater. While this is the most important action of atropine, the effect is complicated by the fact that it stimulates the vaso-motor centre controlling the abdominal arterioles, and at the same time produces dilatation of the cutaneous vessels through a similar action on the vaso-dilator centre. The net result is that the blood pressure rises unless the dose be large enough to depress the heart mviscle. Actiori on the Eye.—The terminations of the motor oculi are pai-alysed and the pupil dilates from the unopposed action of the radiating fibres, ac- commodation is paralysed, and the intra-ocular tension is heightened. Action on other Non- striped Muscle.—The drug has a sedative effect on all organs containing unstriped muscle except the arteries. In the intestine the mechanism by which this takes place is not clear; possibly the ganglia, rather than the nei've endings, are affected. The uterus, bronchial muscles, bladder, spleen, and oesophagus show less tendency to con- tractility after atropine has been administered. The other actions of the drug are less important. The central nervous system is stimulated at first, then depressed. In man there is delirium and motor excitement. In animals the motor centres respond to subnormal electrical stimula- tion. The stage of excitement passes into one of paralysis. The voluntary muscles and their nerves are unaffected, but atropine has a local antesthetic effect on sensory nerve endings. The respiratory centre is at first stimulated, then depressed ; the body temperature is raised. Homatropine differs from atropine in being less toxic; its mydriatic effect is of shorter duration. Hyoscyamine acts more powerfully on the nerve endings than atropine. In the central nervous system depression predominates over excitement, and drowsiness and sleep occur. Hyoscine or Scopolamine.— This drug is a powerful depressant of the central nervous system, sleep being produced by such small doses as ^hs g*"- sleep is said to resemble natural sleep more closely than that produced by opium or chloral. Hyoscine has recently been somewhat extensively employed, alone or in combination with morphine, in producing semi-narcosis during parturition. Hyoscine acts on the nerve endings as ati'opine does, but this sphere of its activity is not of much practical importance. (14) Cocaine. — Cocaine, derived from the Erythroxylon coca, acts both on the central nervous system, and on the terminations of the peripheral sensory nerves. The latter action is practically the more important. When applied locally the drug paralyses the end organs of nerves conveying impressions of pain and touch, sensations of heat and cold remaining perceptible. Smell is entirely paralysed when cocaine is applied to the nasal mucosa, but when applied to the tongue only bitter tastes are abolished, salts, sweets, and acids being recognisable. In addition to the ansesthetic effect there is also local vascular constriction. While cocaine is ansesthetic to mucous membranes, it peneti'ates the skin so slowly that in order to affect cutane- ous nerves it must be injected subcutaneously. When used thus it not only paralyses the nerve endings, but if injected near a nerve tnmk penetrates it and causes ansesthesia of the area governed by its ramifications. A similar result follows intra-spinal injection, probably from action of the posterior roots. When applied to the eye cocaine causes anaesthesia, dilates the pupil, and partially paralyses accommoda- tion. It dilates the pupil less than atropine does, and probably acts by stimulating the dilator fibres of the sympathetis and not by paralysing the third nerve. Of the general effects of the drug the most important is that of removing fatigue and increasing the power of doing work ; it also produces talkativeness and excitement. The cortical motor areas re- spond to subnormal electrical stimuli; with