114 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES be followed by the blowing of pus into the middle meatus. If the ethmoidal cells situated more anteriorly and opening into the upper end of the infvindibulum are catheterised, some doubt will naturally arise as to whether pus blown down from this region has actually been secreted in these cells or has trickled down from the frontal sinus at a higher level. By repeated observation, by the removal of small polypi and portions of the bony framework of the lateral mass of the ethmoid, the source of the pus is thus gradually followed up and ascertained. This procedure not only leads to a diagnosis of the true condition, but forms in a large measure the preliminary stages of treatment. iv. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in THE Posterior Group of Sinuses — The Sphenoidal Sinus and Postei'ior Ethmoidal Cells. —We have thus far endeavoured to trace the source of the suppuration in those cases in which anterior rhinoscopy has revealed the presence of pus in the middle meatus, and in which on posterior rhinoscopy pus has been detected upon the upper surface of the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinated body. A diagnosis of maxillary, frontal, or anterior ethmoidal cell suppuration has probably been established. Let us now assume that we have to deal with a patient in whom, on anterior rhinoscopy, the middle meatus is found free from pus, but purulent discharge is seen to lie in the olfactory cleft between the middle turbinate body and the septum nasi (Fig. 4). Suspicion is then directed to the posterior group of sinuses, the posterior ethmoidal cells, and the sphenoidal sinus. The similarity of the nasal phenomena which may be presented by each, and the fact that their close proximity renders them liable to be affected at the same time, makes a differential diagnosis sometimes difficult. We are therefore led to consider these air-spaces together. The clinical differenti- ation into two groups is not always so simple as the anatomical basis would indicate, as pus from the posterior ethmoidal cells may find its way into the middle meatus. Again, owing to the position of the ostia of the posterior group there is a greater tendency for the secretion to pass backwards into the naso-pharynx, and thus leave the interior of the nose more or less free. It must not be assumed, therefore, that in the absence of pus in the olfactory cleft there is no affection of the posterior group of sinuses. If the disease should co-exist in one or more sinuses of both groups the diagnosis is still further complicated. It may only be after excluding or treating disease in the anterior sinuses that we are led to suspect its existence in the posterior ethmoidal or sphenoidal cavities. Our knowledge of chronic suppuration in the latter cavity is largely due to the observations of Griinwald and Hajek. (a) Anterior Rhinoscopy. — When pios is observed in the olfactory cleft it should be carefully mopped out with cotton-wool pledgets and the region again inspected. If more secretion becomes visible, suspicion is aroused of its probable source in the posterior ethmoidal or sphenoidal cells. The removal of a crust in the same locality followed by a discharge of pus is also significant. Sometimes the olfactory fissure is occluded by swelling of the mucous membrane, and no pus is visible. If, under these circumstances, a purulent discharge follows the forcible introduction and with- drawal of a probe protected with a cotton-wool tampon, the same inference is drawn. Polypi are not frequently met with in this situation, although their occurrence has been described. (b) Posterior rhinoscopy plays a somewhat more important part in the examination of these cases. Owing to the situation of the posterior ostia, pus tends to pass backwards into the nasopharynx rather than forwards into the nose. Inspection of the vault probably reveals the presence of one or more crusts adherent to the mucous membrane. Intermixed with the crusts some fluid secretion may also be visible. In these cases a careful examination of the choanae must be made, because the presence of pus within one or other of these apertures is always very suggestive of the origin of the secretion in an accessory cavity. Should the discharge at the same time be visible upon the upper surface of the middle turbinate body, i.e. in the superior meatus, it is still more suggestive (Fig. 2). When it occurs in this latter situation the source of the pus from one of the sinuses of the anterior group is excluded on anatomical grounds. If it is difficult to obtain a thorough inspection of the naso- pharynx, cocaine should be applied and the palate-hook placed in position. The clinical picture presented by some of these cases is not unlike what is met with in that form of naso- pharyngeal catarrh which is associated with crust formation. Many cases are unsuccessfully treated as such for a considerable length of time; hence it is very important for diagnostic reasons to detect the presence of pus within the posterior naris and upon the middle turbinate body. It should be made a routine practice in all cases of naso-pharyngeal catarrh to inspect and probe the interior of the nose, keeping in mind the possibility of a sinus affection. (c) Ophthalmoscopic examination will prove of value in some instances. The eye changes that may be met with have already been referred to (p. 107). While the above signs are suggestive of suppuration in the posterior group of sinuses, it is as necessary here as in the case of the anterior group to accurately locate the source