PARASITES 350 Fig. 12. — Ripe seg- nientof T.saginata (x2). (After Leuc- kait.) Man is the sole host of the adult worm, which inhabits the intestinal canal. The head is firmly attached to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the small intestine, whilst the chain of proglottides lies in the lumen of the canal, the riper segments being nearest to the rectum. Persons as a rule do not harbour more than one example of this tapeworm, which may be found in persons of all ages. In all parts of the world it is a com- mon parasite, and is certainly the most frequent tapeworm in Great Britain as well as in the whole of Western Europe. Its increasing frequency is often attributed to the fact that raw beef juice constitutes at present so frequent an article of diet in different diseases both of adults and children. The worm is exceedingly common in Eastern Europe, in Abyssinia, where almost every native is the host of this parasite, and in some of the States of South and Central America. The frequency is very largely dependent on the cleanliness and habits of the people. The tapeworm is developed from C^sticercus tcenice saginatw—Cysticercus hovis—which is parasitic almost solely in the muscles of the ox, very exceptionally in those of one or two other animal species, but practically never in those of man. It is solely by ingestion of the infected muscles of the ox, measly beef, that man ac- quires the tapeworm, and it has been shown that it is not until about sixty days after ingestion of the cysti- cercus that mature proglottides com- mence to be discharg- ed from the intestine. About six to ten pro- glottides are shed, singly or attached to one another, each day, and they very frequently migrate spontaneously through the anus. Each contains hundreds of eggs, and it is by water containing these that oxen are infected. After the shell has been digested in the stomach the embryo escapes, passes to the muscles, and in three to six months develops into a fully-formed cysticercus with one un- armed scolex which represents in miniature the head of the adult worm. The fully-developed Cysticercus hovis is a small ovoid bladder not more than 10-12 mm. long, and often no larger Fig. 13.—Head of T. solium (xib). (After Leuckart.) Fig. 14.—Eggs of T. solium. (After Mosler and Peiper.) than a pin's head. Each is contained within a thin adventitious connective - tissue capsule formed from the tissues of the host. On in- cising the cysti- cercus the fluid contained within escapes, and one can recognise the small and usu- ally invaginated scolex attached to the middle of the long equator of the cyst. The small size of these cysticerci often renders their detection a matter of difficulty. Their favourite seats are the muscles of mastication and the heart, but they may be found in any muscle. They are exceedingly rare in any of the viscera but the heart. Some of the cysti- cerci often die spontaneously, and are then seen as small, hard, calcareous nodules. The cystic parasites are killed at a temperature of 47°-48° C, but the temperature at the central portions of underdone roasts or steaks has never reached this point, and hence to eat beef only when it is thoroughly cooked is the surest means of prophylaxis. T(enia solium (Rudolphi, 1810).—This tapeworm seldom exceeds 10 or 12 feet in length. The head is in general spherical, usually somewhat less than 1 mm. in diameter, and has anteriorly a rostellum with two circlets of hooks. The hooks number about twenty-six to twenty- eight in all, and those of the inner, or anterior, circlet are the larger (Fig. 17). The head pos- sesses four muscular suckers. The neck is thinner than the head, and gradually passes into the youngest of the proglottides. The total number of segments is about eight or nine hundred, though sexual maturity is at- tained about the 450th. The ripe segments at the end of the chain, which are seldom liber- ated singly, are 10 to 12 mm. in length, 5 to 6 mm. broad. On each side of the uterus are seven to eight lateral offshoots which do not branch so much as in the case of T. saginata. The genital papillfe alternate from right to left with greater regularity than in T. saginata, and the eggs resemble those of that tapeworm. Tcenia solium is found only in man. Its head Fig. 15.—Half-ripe and ripe segments of T. solium (uat. size). (After Leuckart.) i Fig Ifi.—Two pro- glottides of T. sol- ium with uterus (X 2). (After Leuckart.)