198 OTORRHCEA the reverse obtains, and the treatment is very unsatisfactory. It is the latter group that is specially interesting. What is the explanation of those cases of chronic suppuration which fail to respond to the ordinary treatment, comprised in thorough cleanliness, asepsis, and it may be a little judicious stimulation'? Is there any special bacteriology of these cases ? Is there any particular microbe or combination of mi- crobes which finds a particularly suitable nidus in the middle ear or in the pus itself of these cases"? These are questions that can hardly be answered; but they should be kept in mind and, when opportimity affords, investigated. We mvist, of course, bear in mind that in cases of suppuration, mainly in the attic {v. vol. ii.), the difficulties of suitable drainage are consider- able, and this mechanical difficulty may in itself be the sole caiise of the long continuance of the discharge. But this in no way accounts for all cases. A case that was under the writer's ob- servation for over three years illustrates this point well. When first seen, the child, set. 21 months, suffered from an otorrhoea of some months' standing. The persistent use of boric lotion thrice daily, carried out carefully by the mother, was not followed by any marked im- provement. The continuance of the discharge led to an operation on the mastoid, at which the diseased parts were freely exposed and scraped, and subsequently treated in the hospital. The conditions persisted, and later the naso-pharynx was scraped, as it was thought possible that a slight cushion of adenoid tissue might be aggravating the middle ear disease. No improvement resulted; the free discharge persisted. This case was again operated on, more than a year later, by another surgeon, and still the patient's state was apparently uninfluenced. A third operation was attended by a like result. The surprising thing about the case was the relatively slight influence which this long-continued free suppuration seemed to exert on the patient. The child grew and ap- peared to thrive in a really remarkable degree, and when 3-| years old met with a very serious burning accident, involving the skin of nearly one-third of the body. Curious to relate, this very serious accident seemed to affect this child even less than it would have done a robust child. This fact was so striking that one could not but wonder whether the previous suppuration had exerted anything of the nature of an immunising effect on the tissues of the patient. When the patient again came under the writer's observation six months later, a bacteriological examination of the pus was made, with the following result. The pus showed a few round cocci which stained by Gram's method, bvit the most striking micro- organism was a short, straight, actively motile bacillus, which stained homogeneously, formed no spores, and was decolorised by Gram's method. These were present in great abundance. On an agar plate they formed greyish-white colonies of moderate size, somewhat flat in character, with a sharp clear margin and dark granular centre. The bacillus rendered bouillon diffusely cloudy; it formed gas in a glucose agar medium and liquefied gelatine by the second day. This last point served to differentiate it from the bacillus coli, which it otherwise closely resembled in many respects. The blood serum of this patient did not agglutinate or interfere with the motility of this bacillus after twenty-four hours in a dilution of 1 to 30. The last-mentioned point seems, at first sight, to suggest that this bacillus bore no causal relationship; but the data are insufficient to dogmatise on this point, as it is doubtful if the serum necessarily acquires agglutinating properties in cases of a purely local suppuration. It may have been that this bacillus was an accidental contamination. It should perhaps be stated that this microbe was apparently not one of the special micro-organisms referred to in the section on the ear (vol. ii.). These points are mentioned with the object of empha- sising the importance of a bacteriological ex- amination in all cases of an intractable nature. A more extended knowledge of the bacteriology of these cases would help mi;ch to elucidate their etiology. With regard to treatment of these cases a few words will suffice. The line of treatment is essentially the same as already indicated for the external ear discharge, only more frequent syringing and even greater care in drying the accessible parts of the ear are called for. A few cases call for operative interference. These have been discussed in vol. ii. But there is one line of treatment which is valuable, and merits probably greater attention than it has yet received. We refer here to an adequate and yet not excessive stimulation of the tympanic mucous membrane by the local application of stimulating lotions, e.g. 10 to 15 drops of a solution of equal parts of glycerine and rectified spirits. Aniline oil in rectified spirits has also been used with marked success in some cases, but the glycerine and spirits is probably, on the whole, more advisable, as toxic effects have been known to follow the administration of aniline oil. These remedies doubtless exert their influence through the vascular reaction induced by them and the resulting greater power of resistance associated with a more vitally active mucous membrane. It must not be forgotten that treatment directed to the Eustachian tube, more especially the use of the catheter, is very helpful in some of these cases. Otoscope.—An ear speculum, or a rubber tube for the detection of rupture of the tym- panic membrane by sound. Otto of Rose.—Oleum Rosaj, the oil distilled from the flowers of Rosa damascena. See Rose, Oil of.