PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 544 sating, those from the outer part remaining on the same side. For this reason, section of the right optic tract leads to partial blindness of Occ Occ. L. no. 73.—The connections of the retinse with the central nervous system. R, Ketinse ; Ch., chiasma leading to optic tract; Op.Th., optic thalamus; A.C.Q., anterior corpora quadri- gemina; Oc.M., oculo-motor mechanism (Fig. 72); Ooc.L., occipital lobe of the cerebrum; Teg., tegmentum. both retinse—on the outer part of the right eye and on the inner and middle part of the left eye. Thus objects on the left side of the field of vision are not seen. The fibres of the posterior termination of the optic tract end in synapses with neurons in the corpora qiiadrigemina, and the fibres of these neurons pass downwards and control the oculo- motor mechanism already described (Fig. 72, p. 543). The fibres of the anterior division make synapses with other neurons in the posterior part of the thalamus, and these neurons send their fibres backwards to the occipital lobe of the brain, where they connect with the cortical neurons (Fig. 73, Occ, supra; see also p. 568). When the right occipital lobe or the strand of fibres leading to it is destroyed, blindness on the outer part of the right retina and on the inner and middle part of the left retina results —the individual is blind for all objects in the left half of the field of vision. 3. The Visual Centre A response to stimulation on the part of the neurons in the occipital lobe of the brain (p. 568) is the physical basis of our visual sensations, and hence this part of the brain is called the visual centre. Usually the visual centre is stimulated by changes in the chain of neurons passing from the retina and set in action by retinal changes. But visual sensa- tions may be produced either by direct stimula- tion of the occipital lobe, as is sometimes seen in the early part of an epileptic fit, or by the previous action of other chains of neurons, as in dreaming. The strength of the sensation varies with the strength of the stimulus, and the smallest difference of sensation which can be appreciated is a constant factor of the degree of stimulation. Thus, to produce a change in visual sensation, the strength of the stimulus must vary by about T^th of the stimulus. The strength of the sensation also depends upon the condition of the visual centre whether induced by (a) the general nutrition of the centre, or (b) the simul- taneous activity of other neural mechanisms. When some other neural chains are powerfully in action, light falling on the retina may fail to produce a sensation, i.e. may fail to modify the consciousness. The sensation lasts longer than the stimulus, and thus, if a series of stimuli follow one another at sufiiciently rapid intervals, a fusion of sensations is produced. If a wheel rotating slowly is looked at, the individual spokes are seen; but when it is going more rapidly, the appearance of a continuous surface is presented. When the light is dim, this fusion take place more readily that when the light is bright. From this it is concluded that a strong stimulus causes a more sudden and acute sensation than a weak one, and, therefore, the individual sen- sations are distinguished. But very strong stimuli may leave a prolonged effect, and hence a positive after image may be produced (p. 540). When the stimuli do not follow one another sufficiently rapidly to cause a continuous sen- sation—which may be compared to a complete tetanus in a muscle—a " flicker sensation " is produced, a condition comparable to incomplete tetanus. When, instead of black and white, lights of different colours are used, if the alter- nation is sufficiently rapid a sensation of an in- termediate colour or of white may be produced (p. 541), or, if slower, a flickering alternation of the two colours may be experienced. The visual centre of each side must be re- garded as a chart of the opposite field of vision, each part corresponding to a particular part of the field. The two centres acting together give the whole field of vision (Fig. 67, p. 542). Since the blind spot is not represented in the centre, it is not perceived in the field of vision. The centre is said to rectify the inverted image formed on the retina, but this simply means that as a result of experience, we have learned that changes in, say, the lower part of the retinse, and in the corresponding parts of the visual centres, are produced by light from above the head.