NEUEASTHENIA 39 some distinction, and the third a brilliant pro- fessional musician. The daughters are of the same type, very able mentally, and yet quite unable to bear muscular exercise. An amount of exercise that would be absolutely nothing to ordinary people would in both of them arrest digestion and the power of sleeping for several days. The history of this family is a good illustration of what has already been said of the interdependence of the various types of neur- asthenia. In the mother it is mainly spinal with cerebral symptoms occasionally superadded. In the sons and daughters it is again mainly spinal, but with the nerves of organic life failing in their work when muscular fatigue is induced. To the inexperienced young practitioner, who combines a firm and wholesome belief in the laws of health with a tacit disbelief in " freaks " who cannot obey these laws, such cases are at first a puzzle. He has been used to young- women who can play hockey and cricket, who can hunt and cycle, dance and climb mountains, and he begins by doubting the very existence of genuine nerve weakness apparently without cause and without structural disease. But after a time he has to admit that " freaks " do exist, to whom physical exercise is so far from bene- ficial that the limited degree of health to which they can ever attain is only to be reached by the careful avoidance of every form of exercise. Normal such lives are not; but in abnormal con- ditions all we can do is to make the best of what has to be endured, and not to err by dogmati- cally insisting on one programme for everyone, be he sound or imsound. Among the leading symptoms of cerebral neurasthenia is tenderness of the scalp, some- times diffused, oftener located in certain areas, especially over the vertex, or the eyebrow, or nape of neck. The pupils are very usually dilated, and they are often temporarily unequal in size. There is a form of asthenopia which depends not upon faults of accommodation, but purely upon the nerves. This form cannot be cured by glasses. Reading, writing, and sewing- are often accomplished only with great pain, and the conjunctiva? get congested in the attacks. The teeth decay early and rapidly in neuras- thenics. They feel extremes and changes of weather more than healthy people. Great heat tries them even more than cold. Sunstroke in its minor forms often brings on many symptoms of neurasthenia in a person previously well. Sunstroke that kills does its deadly work by the destructive action of heat on the neurones governing the actions of the heart and lungs. Beard thinks that unusual size, especially in men, often goes with great nervous debility. He says that many of his patients were " giants," and that " it cannot be too often repeated that a patient may be of great size and weight, and have a muscular development both large and hard, capable of great physical endurance, and at the same time be in his nervous system as weak as a bedridden hysterical girl." ^ Very unusual size certainly tells against constitutional vigour, especially against the power of the heart to maintain itself in serious illness. It is generally noticed, too, that exceptionally big people are less well endowed mentally than small or medium-sized individuals. Both these observations go to support Beard's statement as to the proclivity of people of very large frames to nerve weakness. The symptoms in many spinal cases are often, more or less, localised in the spine, and do not necessarily involve the visceral nerves. Many of the aching backs that delicate women complain of are neurasthenic in origin, and can be cured far more quickly by massage, feeding, and rest, than by gynaecologists. These are the cases that a while ago were labelled " spinal irrita- tion," or "irritable spine," and about which the brothers Griffen wrote much that was practically wise if pathologically crude. Some- times the spinal weakness advances to a kind of imperfect or spurious hemiplegia in which there is decided weakness on one side without loss, but often with many disturbances, of sensation. Anaesthesia is far less common in neurasthenia than in hysteria. Patients often complain much of the extreme coldness of their legs, feet, and hands. This is probably due to vasomotor disturbance leading to undue con- striction of the arterioles. It is usually con- nected with imperfect metabolism, and it is often best treated by medicines which promote elimination and diminish arterial tension. Visceral Nenrasthenia.—Over-fatigue of mind and body not unfrequently expresses itself almost solely by partial failure in the functional activity of the nerves of organic life. In many of these cases there is no backache and no special symptoms of spinal disturbance, but all the abdominal organs seem to be conspiring together to do their work in a grudging spirit. Two instances of this may be given as illustra- tions. A lady of forty-three years of age, who had never had much exercise, took to cycling. She enjoyed it greatly, and frequently rode for long distances. She was a tall, big woman weighing about twelve stone, and in addition to the fatigue anyone of this weight would feel, it was not easy to get a perfectly comfortable saddle. After some months she began to have great difficulty in digesting any ordinary food, the bowels were much confined, the evacuations abnormal, and sleep imperfect. The constipa- tion and flatulence were so distressing that the possibility of malignant stricture of the bowel was considered with some anxiety. After many months of ill-health a change to the Riviera gave her nerves a fillip, and in course of time she recovered the power of digestion and is now quite well. In the next case there is a very 1 Beard on Nervous Exhaustion, 1890, p. 117. Lewis.