PHARMACOLOGY 453 ing the respiratory centre. Action on the Alimentary Canal. — Small quantities lessen the sensation of hunger; gastric secretion is retarded, and peristalsis is diminished. Nausea, vomiting, and constipation are produced by larger doses. The secretory organs through- out the body, with the exception of the sweat glands, become inactive. The urine is not much affected, but there may be retention. Metabolism is lessened during the stage of narcosis. Morphia is a drug for which tolerance is easily established; when this occurs, very little of a dose can be recovered from the excreta. The tissues, therefore, have acquired the power of oxidising the drug. Morphine is excreted chiefly by the bowel, even after hypodermic administration. Traces also occur in the urine. Codeine (methyl morphine) is a less active narcotic than morphine, and under its influence the pupillary contraction, slowing of the respir- ation, and affection of digestion, are not so pronounced. Papaverine stands between mor- phine and codeine in its action, while Narco- tine is less depressant and more stimulating, and stands intermediate between codeine and Thebaine, which produces symptoms practically similar to those of strychnine. Heroine, or aceto-morphine, is an artificial alkaloid derived from morphine by substituting acetyl for the two hydrogens of the (OH) groups. It is a sedative, used particularly in irritable cough, without being a depressant to the re- spiratory centre. Apomorphine.—Apomorphine is formed when morphine is dehydi'ated by an acid. It retains the stimulant effects of morphine, particularly on the vomiting centre, but loses its depres- sant action. It increases saliva, sweat, bron- chial and other secretions, and rapidly induces nausea and vomiting. The last of these is due to central action, since it is more speedily pro- duced by subcutaneous than by oral administra- tion. Nausea and vomiting occur in ten or fifteen minutes after a dose of yV-|^ gr., and are accompanied by considerable depression. In small doses it is a useful expectorant. In animals the action of apomorphine resembles that of its parent, morphine. (6) Hydrastine. — This alkaloid is derived from Hydrastis canadensis, and somewhat re- sembles narcotine, one of the opium alkaloids. When oxidised, they split up into opianic acid and hydrastinine and stypticine respectively. In small doses hydrastine causes muscular weakness, inco-ordination, and slow pulse; in large doses, convulsions followed by paralysis. Moderate doses stimulate the respiratory and vaso-motor centre, constrict the arterioles, and are said to excite uterine contractions. Hydras- tinine stimulates the vaso-motor and vagus centres, and possibly the heart muscle, but has little effect on the cord. Whether it acts on the uterus is doubtful. Stypticine {Cotar- nine) resembles hydrastinine in being a powerful vaso-constrictor. (7) Cannabis Indica.—Indian hemp is widely used as an intoxicant and narcotic in the East under the names Bhang, Hasheesh, etc. Its active ingredient is probably a resin. The action of cannabis indica is somewhat uncertain, doubtless from variations in and impurities of the crude drug. Like opium, it induces a mixture of stimulation and depression of the higher centres, and lessens the sensibility to pain ; illusions of time and space are a marked feature of the action. It produces a drowsy semi-unconscious state in which vivid dreams and sometimes hallucinations, generally of a pleasant nature, occur. Among Orientals amor- ous ideas play an important part in the visions ; these are not marked in Europeans. In the Eastern, too, the languorous stage is often preceded by excitement or mania, during which crimes may be committed. Convulsions and catalepsy may take place. Eventually the patient passes into a dreamless slumber from which he wakens without unpleasant after- effects. The drug is much less toxic than opium, and neither constipates nor disturbs digestion. Fatal poisoning is rare; the drug is said to kill by its action on the heart, but its physiological action has not been thoroughly worked out. (8) Hydrocyanic Acid. — Prussic acid is a general protoplasm poison, being extremely fatal to all forms of life. The poisonous effect is probably due to the presence of hydrocyanic acid interfering with the absorption of oxygen by the protoplasm. The drug has a local anses- thetic effect on mucous surfaces, and this is the only one of its actions which is made use of in medicine. In toxic doses it stimulates and then depresses the nervous system, including the respiratory, vaso-motor, and vagus centres, pro- ducing convulsions followed by paralysis; the respiration and circulation are affected through its action on the cerebro-spinal axis, and it also acts directly on the heart muscle, slowing the rate of the heart. Poisoning is so rapid that chemical antagonists are seldom available. Sodium hyposulphite (2 to 4 drs. hypodermi- cally) forms a non-poisonous sulphocyanide, and is effective after absorption. (9) Caffeine.—In a number of plants widely used as beverages, certain xanthin or purin bodies, of which cafteine (theine) and theo- bromine are the chief, are found. The chief of these plants are tea, coftee, and cocoa; kola, which is employed in Central Africa, Paraguayan tea or mate, and the guarana of Brazil, are the best known of the others. Of their active principles, caffeine and theobromine alone are used in medicine. Caffeine is a nervous stimulant, particularly