PARALYSIS 313 in more pronounced form, or new symptoms may arise. Fresh activity of the morbid pro- cess may occur without obvious exciting cause in some cases; while in others it can be clearly traced to some debilitating influence such as pregnancy and parturition, some form of acute illness, privation, exposure to cold, traumatism, or mental shock. Even when the symptoms are in the main progressive, there is a remarkable tendency to periodicity, transient improvements being followed by renewed activity of the disease. Many such remissions may occur before death, and, although this event may be delayed for a great many years, it is the only way in which this disease terminates. The classical symptoms of the established disease are spastic paraplegia with or without ataxy added, exaggerated tendon-jerks, some defect of the sphincter of the bladder, intention tremor, which may be more widespread, but which is usually most pronounced in the upper limbs ; nystagmus, optic nerve atrophy, scanning- utterance and psychical disturbances, notably of an emotional character. It must not, how- ever, be supposed that all of these symptoms are present in every case of the disease, or that the absence of any of them necessarily militates against the diagnosis. It would, for example, be as erroneous to suppose that the diagnosis of disseminated sclerosis is not warranted in the absence of nystagmus, as to imagine that the diagnosis of tabes is not justified if the pupil reaction to light is preserved. Nevertheless, most if not all of the symptoms that have just been narrated, as a rule, appear before the disease has completed its course. So varied are the manifestations of this ubiquitous disease that it will be of greater advantage to consider the individual symptoms in detail than to attempt to sketch a clinical picture that will be suited to all cases. Psychical State.—The patients are commonly emotional, and laugh immoderately, or cry without adequate cause. Later in the course of the disease their manner may suggest a state of well-being that is not justified by the physical condition, while still later they may become fatuous, and may ultimately sink into a state of dementia. Speech.—True aphasic defects are very rare, but speech is commonly altered in a character- istic manner that has been variously described as "scanning," "syllabic," or "staccato." Words are spoken slowly, and with pauses between the different syllables, each of which is unduly accentuated; but the end of the word may be slurred over, and words may be unduly separated from each other The disease may, however, reach a stage when other symptoms make the diagnosis clear, and yet speech may not be affected. The voice is commonly mono- tonous, and it may be tremulous, or it may be nasal in quality owing to paralysis of the palate, or various degrees of aphonia may be met with. The first words of a sentence may be spoken better than those towards the end of it, as the muscles concerned with speech and respiration in common with other muscles in this disease are easily fatigued. Ocular Phenomena. — Defects of vision are common, and these may or may not be attended with changes that can be detected in the optic nerves on ophthalmoscopic examination. Loss of sight may be one of the earliest symptoms, and may be rapid or even sudden in onset, while in its subsequent course remissions may occur in the way that is so characteristic of many symptoms in this disease. Sight is usually only defective in one eye at first, and vision may remain good in the other eye for years. But in such long-standing cases changes can be seen in both discs on ophthalmoscopic examination, though they are only slight on the side on which vision is not affected. The optic discs become pale, one eye is affected before the other, and the temporal half of the disc is most commonly attacked when the change is partial. The appearances are due to simple atrophy of the optic nerves, which is the usual condition met with; but some observers have described slight optic neuritis in a few cases. There may be amblyopic defects of vision, and even con- centric limitation of the field, and yet the ophthalmoscope may reveal no change in the optic nerve, a state of things probably due to retrobulbar affection of the nerve. On the other hand the disc may be pale, and yet the acuity of vision may be normal; indeed, such pallor may precede any defect of vision for many years. Central scotoma for colours, and con- centric limitation of the visual fields are met with in a considerable proportion of cases. Nystagmus is the most common affection of the ocular muscles, though it is not present in a considerable proportion of cases; it is most frequently horizontal, but may be vertical, rotatory, or of mixed form. The nystagmus may be spontaneous, but more often it is only evoked on voluntary movement of the eyes, in which case it is more commonly evoked by lateral movements than when the patient looks up or down. Both eyes are usually affected, although the nystagmus may be dissimilar in the two ; and in rare instances it affects one eye alone ; it may only appear when the eyes are turned to one side, or it may then be more pronounced than when they are turned in the opposite direction. Paralysis of ocular muscles occurs in a much smaller percentage of cases, and though defect of this kind may be present when the patient comes under observation, in many cases there is only a history of it, as diplopia or squint once present has disappeared. The palsies are com- monly of central origin, and conjugate turning of the eyes to one side and convergence are