9 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF fixed by the hand of the examiner, the arm can then be raised vertically. Treatment.—The arm should be kept at rest, and it should be placed in a sling adjusted so -as to slightly raise the shoulder. Galvanism may be employed after the early inflammatory •changes have subsided. The supra-scapular nerve is occasionally para- lysed through injuries to the shoulder, falls on the hand, and exposure to cold. The symptoms •consist chiefly in paralysis and atrophy of the supra- and infra-spinatus muscles. Through the wasting of these muscles the spine of the scapula appears very prominent. The paralysis of the •supra-spinatus causes some impairment in the power of raising the arm, and a tired sensation after this movement. Paralysis of the infra- spinatus causes some impairment in the outward rotation of the humerus, which produces diffi- culty in moving the pen along the line in writing, and also difficulty in sewing. The circumflex nerve may be paralysed through dislocation or injury at the shoulder, through the pressure of a crutch, and from exposure to cold; occasionally isolated paralysis of this nerve (through neuritis) occurs in diabetes mellitus. The symptoms consist in paralysis of the deltoid muscle, with or without loss of sensa- tion over the lower part of that muscle. The arm cannot be raised to the horizontal posi- tion. When an attempt is made to raise the .arm into this position the shoulder is elevated by the trapezius and serratus magnus, whilst the arm hangs nearly vertically at the side. Ankylosis of the shoulder produces a similar in- .ability to raise the arm; but the ankylosis can be easily detected by making passive movements. Bilateral paralysis of the deltoids has followed sleeping with the arms raised and the hands clasped behind the head. The writer has re- •corded bilateral paralysis produced by pressure through the patient being kept in bed in one position, on the back, for a month, on account of a fractured leg. The Median Nerve.—This nerve supplies the two pronators, the flexors of the wrist and fingers (excepting the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus), the ■opponens, abductor, the long flexor, and outer head of the short flexor of the thumb, and the two radial lumbricales. When the nerve is paralysed above the point of origin of all the muscular branches, the muscles named are paralysed. Pronation is lost. The wrist cannot be flexed except to the ulnar side. The thumb is in an extended and abducted position, and ■cannot be opposed to the tips of the fingers. The patient is unable to flex the second phal- anges of the fingers on the first ] he is also un- able to flex the distal phalanx of the first and second fingers; but he can flex this phalanx in the third and fourth fingers by means of the ulnar half of the flexor profundus which is not paralysed. He can flex at the knuckles by the action of the interossei. Thei'e is wasting of the thenar muscles. When the lesion of the nerve is below the origin of the branches to the forearm muscles, only the small muscles of the hand suff"er. The median nerve supplies the sensory fibres to the radial side of the palm, the front of the thumb, the first and second fingers, and half of the third ; and in many persons to the back of the last phalanx of the index and middle finger ; sometime also to the back of the last phalanx of the thumb and the back of the radial half of the last phalanx of the ring finger. The ana3sthesia produced by lesion of the median is variable. Sometimes it corresponds to the sensory dis- tribution named. In other cases the dorsal anaesthesia has extended over both the middle and end phalanges of the first and second fingers, over the radial part of these phalanges of the " third " fingers, whilst the back of the thumb has not been aff"ected (Schultze). Trophic change may occur in the skin and nails. Causes of Paralysis.—Isolated lesion of the nerve is rare. Its causes are chiefly wounds and implication of the nerve in fractures of the bones of the forearm. In a few cases Esmarch's bandage has injured the nerve. Occasionally puerperal mononeuritis has caused the lesion. In other rare cases it has been paralysed in certain occupations—in cigarette-makers, joiners, locksmiths, etc. The Ulnar Nerve.—This nerve supplies the following muscles : flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum, the hypothenar muscles, the interossei, the two ulnar lumbricales, the adductor and inner head of the short flexor of the thumb. When the ulnar nerve is paralysed the hand deviates to the radial side on fle.xion at the wrist, and in time this deviation becomes per- manent. Owing to the paralysis of the inter- ossei and two ulnar lumbricales, the fingers cannot be flexed at the first joints (knuckles) or extended at the others. In this respect the first two fingers are less affected than the third and fourth, because their two (radial) lumbricales are supplied by the median nerve. In time the con- traction of the opponents of the paralysed inter- ossei produces over-extension of the first phal- anges and flexion of the others, so that a " claw hand" develops. But the first two fingers have not the distinct claw position like the third and fourth fingers. The fingers cannot be adducted or abducted. The thumb cannot be adducted. The little finger cannot be op- posed to the thumb, it cannot be abducted. The muscles of the hypothenar eminence are wasted, the palm of the hand is hollowed, and the depressions between the metacarpal bones are well marked.