PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 531 placed on the skin feels heavier than a warm body, as may be shown by placing first a cold penny and then a warm penny on the skin of the forehead. Much light has been thrown on the nature of the nervous mechanism connected with cuta- neous sensibility by Head. He had the radial and external cutaneous nerves in his own arm divided below the elbow, and he thus severed all fibres from the skin over an area on the outside of the hand and fore-arm. (1) Immediately after the operation he found that the pressure sense was not lost, and that a touch with a pencil was felt and well localised. True tactile sense, as tested by touching with a soft substance like cotton-wool, and the sense of pain as tested by the prick with a pin, were lost. Ulcers tended to form over the paralysed area. (2) After seven weeks he found that a prick with a pin could be felt as a painful sensation, not well localised and radiating widely. Differ- ences of temperature between ice-cold water and water at 50° C. could be appreciated, and the cold and hot spots were sharply defined and reacted as cold to water at 24* C. and hot to everything above 38° or 40° C. The sensation FIG. 48.—To show the arrangement of epicritic, protopathic, and deep-ingoing fibres in their distribution, and in their course in peripheral nerves and in the plexuses ; — f — \ — epi- critic fibres; protopathic fibres ; -o-o-o deep fibres. (See text.) radiated widely and was not graduated, the intensity depending upon the number of spots stimulated, large surfaces at 25° C. giving a more marked sensation of cold than small sur- faces at 0° C. By the end of two hundred days this condi- tion was completely restored over the whole area, and ulcers no longer tended to form. He considers that the nerve structures involved constitute the great reflex mechanism presiding Dver the nutrition of the skin. In action it produces qualitative, not quantitative, changes in the consciousness. He terms it Protopathic Sensibility. (3) For more than a year the area remained insensitive to light touch with cotton-wool, then gradually it became sensitive to such light contact and to slight differences of temperature, giving sensations of warinth and coldness as opposed to the previous sensations of hot and cold. This he terms Epicritic Sensibility. He discovered a small area on his hand in which the epicritic sense was not lost but the protopathic sense was lost. Light touch and differences of temperature between 36° and 45° C. were appreciated, but the difference between water at 50° C. and ice was not felt. He concludes from this and from the different rate of regeneration that the two sets of nerves are independent. He further finds, from the study of cases of nerve section, that division of a peripheral nerve leaves sharply-defined areas of loss of epicritic sense, but great overlaps in the protopathic sense. On the other hand, when a cord of the brachial plexus is divided, the area showing loss of protopathic sense is more sharply defined. When a series of posterior roots are cut, loss of protopathic and epicritic sensibility correspond. He concludes that the posterior roots are the units for protopathic sense, while the peripheral nerves are the units for epicritic sense (Fig. 48). In the spinal cord there is no indication of separate channels for these two kinds of nerves, but the sensory impulses get shunted into special tracts for heat, cold, touch, etc. {see p. 570). He also considers visceral sensations. He finds that, when water is applied to the inside of the colon, differences of temperature between 20° and 40° C. are not appreciated, but ice-cold water is felt as cold and water at 50° C. as hot. The sensation is not localised. He argues that the viscera have protopathic but not epicritic sensibility, but he points out that most of the visceral sensations are due to a sense akin to the muscle sense. He concludes that the body within and with- out is supplied with protopathic fibres and with fibres associated with sensation of movement and of pressure, but that to the skin alone epicritic fibres pass (Fig. 48). How far epicritic sensibility exists in the lower animals it is not easy to determine. Possibly it has been evolved in the primates in connection with the important part played by the tactile sense of the hand in directing the movements of the animal. (c) For Chemical Stimuli.—Sense of Taste.— 1. Receptors.—These receptors are developed in the mouth with the object of determining the utilisation or rejection of material taken into the mouth according as it is beneficial or nocuous. The most important receptors consist of groups of spindle-shaped cells with which the