PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 500 (1) Development and Structure. — Bone is formed by a deposition of lime salts in layers or lamellae of white fibrous tissue ; but while some bones, as those of the cranial vault, face, and clavicle, are produced entirely in fibrous tissue, others are preformed in cartilage, which acts as FlQ. 12.—Intra-nierabrauous bone development in the lower jaw . of a foetal cat. Above, the process of ossification is seen shooting out along the fibres, and on the lower surface the ' . process of absorption is going on. Two osteoclasts—large multi-nucleated cells—are shown to the left. a scaffolding upon which the formation of bone goes on. Intra-memhranaus Bone Development. — This may be well studied in any of the bones of the cranial vault where cartilage is absent (Fig. 12). At the centre of ossification the matrix be- tween the fibres becomes impreg- nated with lime salts, chiefly the phosphate and carbonate. How this deposition takes place is not known; and how far it is depend- ent on the action of cells has not been clearly determined. As a re- sult of this, the connective-tissue cells get enclosed in definite spaces, lacunce, and become hone corpuscles. Narrow branching channels of com- munication are left between these lacunse, the canaliculi. This de- position of lime salts spreads out irregularly from the centre into the adjacent fibrous tissue, and this advance is preceded by a line of actively growing cells, sometimes called osteoblasts. The fully-formed adult bone, however, is not a solid block, but is composed of a compact tissue out- side, and of a spongy bony tissue, cancelloxis tissue, inside. This cancellous tissue is formed as a secondary process. Into the block of cal- careous matter, formed as above described, pro- cesses of the fibrous tissue bun-ow, carrying in blood-vessels, lymphatics, and numerous cells. This burrowing process seems to be carried on by the connective-tissue cells, which eat up the bony matter formed. In doing this they frequently change their appearance, becoming large and multi-nucleated {osteoclasts). Thus the centre of the bone is eaten out into a series of channels, in which the marrow of the bone is lodged, and between which narrow bridges of bone remain. It is by the extension of the calcifying process outwards, and the burrowing out of the central part of the bone, that the diploe and cancellous tissue are produced. Intra-cartilaginous Bone Development. — In the bones preformed in cartilage, the process is somewhat more complex, although all the bone is formed in connection with fibrous tissue, the cartilage merely playing the part of a scaffold- ing and being all removed. Where the adult bone is to be produced, a minute model is formed in hyaline cartilage in the embryo, and this is surrounded by a fibrous covering, the perichondrium. In the deepest layers of this perichondrium the process of calcification takes place, as described above, and spreads out- wards, thus encasing the cartilage in an ever- thickening layer of bone (Fig. 13). This was demonstrated by inserting a silver plate under the periosteum, and showing that bone was deposited outside of it. At the same time, in the centre of the cartilage, at what is called the centre of ossifica- tion, the cells begin to divide actively, and, instead of forming new cartilage, eat away their capsules, and thus open out the cartilage spaces (Fig. 13). Into these spaces processes of the perichondrium bore their way, carrying with Fig. 13.—Intra-cartilaginous bone development. A phalanx of a foetal finger show- ing the formation of periosteal bone round the sliaft; the opening up of the cartilage at the centre of ossification ; the vascularisation of the cartilage by the invasion of periosteum; and the calcification of the cartilage round the spaces. them blood-vessels, and thus rendering the cartilage vascular (Fig. 13). The vascularisa- tion of the centre of the cartilage having been effected, the process of absoi'ption extends to- wards the two ends of the shaft of cartilage, which continues to elongate. The cartilage cells divide and again divide, and, by absorbing the material between them, form long irregular