NESSLER'S REAGENT OR SOLUTION 34 and addition of a certain quantity of Nessler's solution, or JVesslerisation). The Nessler re- agent is made by dissolving potassium iodide in water, adding a solution of mercuric chloride, filtering, and then adding a concentrated solu- tion of caustic soda (or potash), diluting, and, finally, adding a little more of the mercuric chloride solution. See Air, Examination of (Ammonia); Water [Ammonia, Nesslerisation). Nestle's Food. See Infant-Feeding {Artificial Feeding, Additional Food). Nettle rash. See Urticaria. Nettleship's Dots.—White dots on the retina found in cases of nyctalopia or night- blindness. Nettle stingos. See Stinging Plants {Urtica); Urticaria (Causes). Netzbeutel.—The omental cavity, gastric diverticulum, or lesser peritoneal space ; it is formed of the mesogastrium during embryonic antenatal life by the deflection of the stomach to the left and by its revolution round its axis. Neubauer's Gangrlion. — The in ferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic is, as a rule, imperfectly separated from the first thoracic, and to the mass formed by their union the name of Neubauer's ganglion has been given. Neuber's Method.— A method of treating the tuberculosis of bones and joints by clearing out the affected tissues, filling the cavity with iodoform and glycerine (emulsion), and closing it up. Neuenahr. See Balneology (Germany); Mineral Waters (Alkaline). Neumann's Corpuscles.—Nucle- ated erythrocytes or red blood-corpuscles, found normally in the foetus and under morbid con- ditions in the adult {e.g. after htemorrhage). Neumann's Crystals.—Crystals, octohedral or hexahedral, found in the sputum in various diseases, such as asthma and bron- chitis; Charcot's or Charcot-Leyden's crystals. <S'ee Expectoration (Sputum, Microscopical Ex- amination). Neumann's Disease. — Pemphigus vegetans. See Pemphigus (Pemphigus vegetans). Neurad.—Towards the neural aspect of a body—opposed to hcemad. Neuradynamia.—Nervous debility or neurasthenia (q.v.). Neuraemia.—Functional disease of the nervous system (Laycock). Neural. — Relating to or belonging to nerves or nervous mechanisms; e.g. neural axis (spinal cord), neural canal, neural arc, neural arch, neural lamina, etc. Neuralgia. See Nerves, Peripheral— Neuralgia. See also Alcoholism (Drunken- ness) ; Ankle-Joint, Region of, Diseases (Gonorrhaeal Affections, Plantar Neuralgia) ; Appendix Vermiformis, Diseases of {Appendi- citis, Diagnosis, Neuralgia); Balneology (Baths in Diseases of the Nervous System, Neuralgia); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of (Neuralgia) ; Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Sensory Disturbaiices); Cautery (Uses); Chest-Wall, Affections of (Pain, Intercostal Neuralgia); Chlorosis (Symptoms, Inframammary Neuralgia) ; Cicatrices (Pain- ful) ; CoccYGODYNiA; Colic {Diagnosis); Con- tusions {Traumatic Neuralgia); Deformities (Metatarsalgia); Electricity (Galvanism in the Treatment of Sciatica); Glaucoma (Primary Glaucoma, Diagnosis); Gout (Irregular Gout, Nervous System); Hydropathy (Subacute and Chronic Diseases, Treatment of); Hypnotism {Treatment of Neuralgia); Joints, Diseases of (Hysterical Joint Affections); Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Perinephritis, Diagnosis); Larynx, Malignant Disease of (Symptoms, Diagnosis); Leprosy (Symptoms of Lepra Maculo-Anaesthetica); Mammary Gland, Dis- eases OF (Neuralgia of the Mamma, Masto- dynia); Nephritis (Renal Cirrhosis, Symp- toms) ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation OF (Eye Symptoms of Sphenoidal Disease); Pharynx, Examination of (Neuralgia); Preg- nancy, Physiology (Changes in the Nervous System); Purpura {Symptomatic, Nervous) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Neuralgia of the Testis, Testalgia); Syphilis (Secondary Syphilis, Symptoms; Tertiary Syphilis, Neur- algic Joints); Teeth (Caries, Pulpitis, Neur- algias of Dental Origin); Tongue (Nervous Affec- tions of); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Oxalic Acid Diathesis, Symptoms); X-Rays (Treatment of Neuralgia). Neuralg'in.—A proprietary preparation said to consist of antifebrin, caffein, and sali- cylate of soda; it is given in doses of from 8 to 45 grains. NeurapOphysiS.—One or other of the two processes of a vertebra which by their union form the neural arch, and along with the vertebral body bound the neural canal. Neurarthropathy.—A diseased con- dition of a joint in which the nervous structures are involved. Neurasthenia. See also Abdomen, ClinicalExamination (Symptoms of Neurasthenia due to Abdominal Disease); Asthenopia (Far«e<ies,