PALATE 226 by sponge pressure, unless the artery be partially divided, in which case the division should be made complete. The operator proceeds with the separation of the flaps, while the assistant seizes every opportunity to remove the blood. Attention is now paid to the soft structures around the hamular process. This process is divided by some operators. The palatal aponeurosis at- tached to the back of the hard palate should be divided. The mucous membrane, reflected from the base of the soft palate into the nose, should also be divided. The division of these structures is effected by a probe - pointed bistoury and by curved scissors. A pause can now be made to arrest bleeding and remove blood. In cases of complete cleft it is convenient to transfer the gag to the side of the mouth already dealt with, and to separate the other muco-periosteal flap. When both flaps have been detached, a raspatory should be introduced into the incision on each side and the flaps drawn together. If they fall readily into position, the next stage of the operation may be proceeded with; if not, any resisting spot is to be dealt with. (3) The Passage of Siitures.—The method of passing the sutures varies with the part of the palate, the size of the mouth, etc. It is sometimes possible, even in the hard palate, to pass a suitably curved needle threaded with silk first through one flap and then through the other. This direct method is employed in the soft palate and uvula. The loop method is usually required when the hard palate is being dealt with. A needle of suitable curve threaded with silk a foot or more in length is passed through the whole thickness of the flap not less than one-eighth of an inch from the pared margin. The silk is caught at the eye of the needle by dissecting forceps or the point of another needle, and the needle withdrawn. A loop of silk is then left on one side of the cleft. The same proceeding is then repeated by passing the needle through the other flap at an exactly corresponding point. There are now two loops of silk, one of which may be passed through the other, which is gently withdrawn, and thus a loop passes through both flaps. Into this loop the bent end of the silver wire is caught, and pressed flat with forceps; the free ends of the silk are drawn upon and the wire carried through both flaps. An equally convenient method is to pass one loop of silk, catch one end of the wire and draw it through one flap, and repeat the procedtire on the other side with the other end of the wire. If this method be adopted, care must be taken to prevent the wire kinking as its two ends are being drawn upon. The first wire suture, which can be used for holding the palate forward, ought to be passed about the junction of the hard and soft palate, and farther from the edge of the cleft than the others, in order to act as a suture of relaxation at the part where failure is most likely to occur. The second is placed about the middle of the hard palate. A third or fourth may be required. The anterior part of the hard palate and the soft palate are best united by silk- worm-gut, and the uvula by horse- hair. Silk is not to be recommended. The number of sutures required depends upon the extent of the cleft; they ought not to be more than \ inch apart in the soft and hard palates. Between the wire inter- mediate sutures of silkworm-gut may be introduced. In number will vary Fig. 9.—Extent of incisions. a complete cleft the total from about eight to ten. All the sutures ought to be introduced, and their ends clamped with forceps, before any of them are tied. The wire, if pliable, is tied in a single knot, and the ends cut fairly short and left flat across the line of union. Silkworm-gut and horse-hair are tied by surgical knots. The sutures are conveniently tied from before back- wards ; before doing so, however, they are drawn together to see if the pared edges lie in accurate apposi- tion. Care must be taken to avoid inversion of one edge, and the uvula must be ac- curately united down to its very tip. When the cleft extends up to the alveolar margin, in order to avoid I'IG. 10.—Operation complete. may have to be closed at damaging the artery a small gap a subsequent period. (4) The Relief of Tension.—i:h.h, the last, is not the least important stage of the operation. It is essential, not only for primary union, but also for the mobility of the soft palate, which ought to be suiflciently loose to move freely when the patient breathes. It may be said that