PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 511 moved and the distance through which it is moved, the work-doing power of muscle is governed by the force of contraction, which determines the weight which can be lifted, and by the amount to which the muscle can shorten, for this will govern the distance through which the weight may be moved. It has been already shown that the force of contraction depends chiefly upon the sectional area of a muscle. A thick muscle is stronger than a thinner one. But, on the other hand, the amount of contraction depends upon the length of the muscle, since each muscle can contract only to a fixed proportion of its original length. A glance at the diagram will at once make this plain (Fig. 29). The size of the muscle is thus the first great factor which governs its work-doing power. But flA I'D Y the many factors influen- cing the force of muscular contraction also influence the work-doing power of the muscle. One factor requires ——■—■ special consideration, Fig. 29. —Influence of the namely, the load. length of a muscle upon -tt- i j the work done. "6 have already seen that as the load is in- creased the extent of contraction is diminished. The following experiment will illustrate the influence of increasing the load on the work- doing power of a muscle :— □ Load in Space through which AVork in Grams. Grams. lifted in mm. mm. 0 X 4-5 0-0 20 X 3-0 60-0 40 X 2-37 94-8 60 X 2-00 120-0 80 X 1-75 140-0 100 X 1-2 120-0 It will be seen that increasing the load at first increases the amount of work done, but that after a certain weight is reached, it diminishes it. There is, therefore, for every muscle, so far as its working power is concerned, an optimum load. In studying the amount of work a muscle or set of muscles can do, the element of time must always be considered. Obviously contracting muscles will do more work in an hour than in a minute. Hence in trying to form any idea of the amount of work a muscle can do, this must be expressed in work units per unit of bulk and per unit of time. The work unit generally employed is the kilogram-metre—the work re- quired to raise one kilogram to the height of one metre against the force of gravity. Various instruments —Ergometers—have been devised for measuring the amount of work done by various groups of muscles under different conditions. The average working capacity of skeletal muscle may be estimated as follows :—A labourer who raises 130,000 kilos through one metre during his eight hours of work does a good average day's work. His muscles weigh about 25 kilos, and thus each gram of his muscle will do 5 kilogram-metres per diem, or 0-06 gram- metres per second. When required, much larger amounts of work can be done for short periods. It has been calculated that in the sprint of a 100 yards race, work is done at something like 2 gram- metres per second, about thirty times the rate at which a labourer's muscles work. But to increase the rate at which work is done requires an increase in the expenditure of the energy- yielding materials in greater proportion than the increased work—just as to increase the speed of a ship or an engine requires an increase of coal consumption in a proportion roughly corresponding to the square of the increased speed. V. Heat Production in Muscle.—In muscle, as in other machines, by no means the whole of the energy rendered kinetic is used for the production of mechanical work. In a steam- engine much of the energy is dissipated as heat, and the same loss occurs in muscle. If heat is given off when a muscle contracts, either the muscle itself, or the blood coming from it, will become warmer. Hence to detect such a charge some delicate method of measuring changes of temperature must be employed. The mercurial thermometer is hardlj- sufiiciently sensitive, and, therefore, the thermo-electrical method is most generally employed. Vai-ious forms of thermopile may be used. The rise of temperature in a muscle after a single contraction is extremely small, but after a tetanic contraction, lasting for two or three minutes, it is very much greater. The amount of heat produced may be calcu- lated if (a) the weight of the muscle ; (i) its tempei-ature before and after contraction; and (c) the specific heat of muscle, are known. The specific heat of muscle is slightly greater than that of water, but the difference is so slight that it may be disregarded. If, then, a muscle of ten grams had a temperature of 15° C. before it was made to contract, and a temperature of 15-05° C. after a period of con- traction, then 0-5 gram-degrees of heat have been produced ; i.e. heat sutiicieut to raise the temperature of 0-5 gramme of water through 1° C. The heat units employed are the small and large calorie—the small calorie the heat required to raise one gram of water through one degree Centigrade, and the large Calorie— written with a large C—the heat i-equired to raise a kilogram of water through one degree Centigrade. The amount of heat produced by muscle in diffei-ent conditions varies so greatly that it is unnecessary to consider it further.