262 PANOPTIC STAINING Panoptic Staining.—A method of staining a section or blood-film with a solution containing several aniline dyes or other agents (triacid mixture) so as to colour the different parts. Panosteitis. — inflammation involving all the tissues of which a bone is composed. See Bone, Diseases of. Panotitis. — Inflammation involving all the structures of the ear. Pansphygmograph. — An instru- ment which records simultaneously the move- ments of the heart, the pulse, and the respiration. Pa.ntiCOSa. See Balneology {Spain); Mineral Waters (Muriated Saline). Pantophobia. /S'eePANOPHOBiA; Neur- asthenia (Si/mptomatolof/y). See also Rabies. Pan US.—A swelling or tumour, especially of a gland, e.g. panus inguinalis (a bubo). Papain.—From the unripe fruit of the Carica papaya, the papaw or melon-tree, a milky juice is obtained which contains a digestive ferment called papain ; this ferment has been used internally in dyspepsia (dose, 5 to 10 grains), and externally as an application to warts and epitheliomata, etc. See Enzymes {Papairi and Pajoayotin). Papaverina or Papaverine. See Alkaloids (Vegetable). Papaver Somniferum. See Opium. Papayotin.—A ferment found in juice of the papaw, having a digestive effect upon proteids. See Papain. Papilla.—A small, soft prominence, espe- cially a nipple-shaped one, e.g. the papillae of the tongue, of nerves, of the lachrymal duct, of the kidney, etc. Papillary.—Resembling or relating to papillae, e.g. the modified columnse carneae of the heart which form the papillary muscles of that organ. See Physiology, Circulation {Heart, Structure). Papillectonny.—Excision of one or more papillae, especially of the kidney. Papillitis.— Inflammation of the intra- ocular end of the optic nerve (or papilla). See Retina and Optic Nerve {Inflammation of the Optic Nerve) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Eye and its Appendages). Papilloma.—A warty growth of the skin or of a mucous surface, hard or soft, sessile or pedunculated, consisting of hypertrophied pupillaj covered by epithelium. See Ear, Ex- ternal, Diseases of {Stenosis of Meatus); Larynx, Benign Growths of (Varieties); Mam- mary Gland, Diseases of {Duct Papilloma); Mouth, Diseases op the {Gums, Papillo7na of); Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum {Benign Tumoxbrs of Nasal Fossce); Palate {Tumours); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Morbid Anatomy, New Growths). Papule.—A small, solid projection or eminence on the skin. See Eczema {Lesions); Syphilis {Secondary, Affections of the Skin). Paquelin Cautery. See Cautery (Thermocautery). Para-.—in compound words para- (Gr. Trapa, by the side of) means alongside of, be- yond, to one side, faulty, irregular, or wrong; e.g. jMracanthosis (morbid growth of the prickle- cell layer of the skin), paracyesis (ectopic gestation), parapoplexy (false apoplexy), para- trophy (disordered nutrition), etc. Para-Anaesthesia. — Anaesthesia of both sides of the body, especially of the lower limbs. Parabanic Acid.— A dibasic acid, C0.2(NH.C0), formed by the action of nitric acid on uric acid or alloxan; oxalyl carbamide or oxalyl urea. Parablast. — The nutritive (as dis- tinguished from the formative) yolk of a mero- blastic ovum; also, disease with anatomical alteration; also, the embryonic tissue from which blood-vessels, lymphatics, and other con- nective tissues are developed, a parablastoma being a tumour formed of such tissues. ParablepsiS.—False vision (Gr. irapa- fiXi-TTfLv, to see wrong); side vision. ParabUXine.—An alkaloid, C^^H^gNoO, contained in the bark of Buxus sempervirens. Parabulia.—An abnormal action of the will (Gr. TTtt/oa, irregular, and /SovXij, will); per- verted will. Paracasein. See Physiology, Food AND Digestion (Food, Milk). Paracentesis. See also Aspiration and Ascites.— This term is applied to the operation of tapping one of the serous cavities for fluid, or, more rarely, gas. The operation is most frequently done for the removal of fluid from the peritoneal or pleural cavities. It may be carried out by a quick process—the use of a large trocar and cannula, described under "Aspiration" in vol. i. ; when it is desirable to promote the very gradual escape of the fluid, a much finer trocar, cannula, and drainage-tube are employed (Southey's tubes). This latter process has the merits of simplicity,