326 PARALYSIS incompatible with any organic lesion causing otherwise complete hemiplegia, and the patient after many months recovered suddenly. The importance of such contradictory symptoms in functional paralysis is great, as they occur frequently. In the spastic cases there may be contracture of the face, tongue, and muscles of mastication on the affected side. Sometimes there is a degree of torticollis. The spasm is usually equally resistive to passive movement in all positions of the limb—there is no " clasp- knife " phenomenon, and the fingers when aflfected do not relax on passive flexion of the wrist as in organic hemiplegia. Passive move- ment is, as a rule, much objected to by the patient. The spasm when severe and without intermission is termed contracture, and when this occurs the limbs assume characteristic positions. In the upper limb the arm is adducted, the elbow flexed, and the fingers either flexed at all joints or extended at the inter-phalangeal joints and strongly adducted (interosseal position). The lower extremity is always extended at the hip and knee, often adducted and rotated in at the hip ; the foot is dropped and inverted. Contracture of any degree of severity does not relax during sleep, and only relaxes in the late stages of surgical anaesthesia. A peculiar characteristic of both types is that when an attempt is made to voluntarily or passively move a joint in a particular direction, the antagonistic muscles at once contract. Where voluntary movement is possible it is generally tremulous, and this is especially evident when power is returning and spasm lessening. The tremor may be the most con- spicuous symptom of the hemiplegia. Where the patient is able to stand, the gait is character- istic, the paralysed leg being dragged helplessly behind the other, the dorsal surface of the toes resting upon the ground. Where there is some degree of power in the lower extremities, the gait is as if the patient voluntarily exaggerated all the difficulties, and the most grotesque movements result, which have no place in the duration, and then it is only slight. The electrical excitability of the muscles is un- altered. Slight vaso-motor disturbance may be present in the regions where contracture is present, and is probably due to pressure upon the veins by the spastic muscles. Slight trophic changes in the periphery of the limbs are met with, and rest adhesions may form in the joints. The deep reflexes are exaggerated ; more upon the affected side, where foot clonus may be present. The plantar reflex is often absent on one or both sides; where present, it is always of the flexor type. The abdominal reflex is often exaggerated upon the paralysed side. The other signs of functional disease, often present in fimctional hemiplegia, are hemianses- thesia to all forms of sensibility, and especially to pain, involving the body and frequently the mucous membranes up to the middle line. The muscular sense is sometimes retained. Uni- lateral loss of smell, diminution of hearing, and crossed amblyopia and hysterical convulsions are often present {vide Hysteria). \ The three following physical signs are of i great value in diagnosis:—(1) The plantar reflex, which is always flexor when present in functional disease, is almost always extensor in organic disease, where the pyramidal tracts are involved. (2) On pressing the chin downwards against a firm resistance the head deviates to the soimd side in organic hemiplegia; it does not deviate in functional hemiplegia. (3) The patient is placed supine upon the bed and the legs uncovered. She is then directed to sit up suddenly. When this act is performed by a normal person, both thighs and knees are flexed slightly; during the act in organic hemiplegia, where any rigidity is present, the paralysed thigh moves up much more than the sound. In functional hemiplegia, where rigidity is present, the aff"ected limb does not move at all or only slightly. (Babinski's sign.) It is here convenient to place in the form of a table the chief features serving to distinguish functional hemiplegia from organic hemiplegia. Vision . . . . . Hemi-analgesia .... Face Paralysis . . . . . Gait Contracture of knee and foot True foot clonus.... Abdominal reflex Plantar reflex .... Inclination of head to sound side on depressing chin Babinski's hip phenomenon where rigidity is present Functional. Crossed amblyopia Frequently complete Never paralysed Rarely complete The foot is dragged behind Knee extended. Foot, equino- varus Seldom present Often exaggerated Absent or flexor Absent Absent Organic. Hemianopia Never complete Often paralysed Often complete Leg moved forward in a half circle Knee, often flexed. Foot, pes cavus Generally present Diminished or absent Extensor Often present Present clinical picture of organic hemiplegia. There j Functional Parapi-egfa.—The onset of the is no muscular wasting except in cases of long paralysis is almost invariabl}^ sudden, and often