PARALYSIS 266 acute form may be of sudden or rapid onset, while the chronic form may be the legacy of a past acute affection, or its onset may have been gradual and its progress slow. In acute para- lysis of sudden or rapid onset, when death does not result in consequence of the attack, there is commonly some tendency to improvement after the maximum effect of the lesion has been reached, and even if recovery does not result, there is no tendency for the paralysis to pro- gress after it has become chronic. When it is of gradual onset and chronic from the onset, however, the tendency is for the paralysis to progress slowly but surely until a fatal termina- tion is reached. Paralysis of sudden or rapid onset may result from affections of the brain or spinal cord, as may pai'alysis that is chronic from the outset. When the peripheral nerves are affected the most usual form of paralysis is that of rapid onset, though notably in lesions of single nerves, the onset may be sudden, and in rare instances multiple affection of peripheral nerves is chronic from the outset. The almost invariable rule is that paralysis due to primary affection of the muscles is chronic in its onset and subsequent course. The seat of the lesion which causes the para- lysis determines certain distinguishing features in regard to its distribution. Thus, when the brain is affected the paralysis is usually limited to one-half of the body, including the face, trunk, and limbs, and the affection is then known as " hemiplegia "; but both sides of the body may be affected, including all four limbs, as is seen in cerebral " diplegia," or the para- lysis may be limited to the lower extremities, and is then known as " paraplegia," which is, however, distinctive of a lesion of the spinal cord rather than of the brain. Even a single limb may be paralysed (" monoplegia") as the result of a cerebral lesion. Although " para- plegia " is the form of paralyis most character- istic of an affection of the spinal cord, " mono- plegia " is also common. Both upper limbs may be affected while the lower limbs escape, and under rare circumstances the two limbs on the same side are involved, or even the upper limb on one side and the lower limb on the other. When lesions of the peripheral nerves cause paralysis, the loss of power may be limited to the anatomical distribution of one or more nerves ; but when there is a general affection of the peripheral nerves the paralysis is com- monly paraplegic in distribution, or all foiir limbs may be weak. Less frequently the upper extremities suffer, while the lower extremities escape. The cranial nerves are rarely affected except when the paralysis is due to certain causes, notably the poison of diphtheria. Para- lysis consequent on primary affection of the muscles usually involves all four limbs, especially their proximal segments, and the trunk ; but, except in one form, the face escapes. There are, however, some forms of paralysis in which the morbid process is not confined to one part of the nervous system, but attacks the brain, the spinal cord, and possibly also some peripheral nerves. The seat of the lesion also determines the character of the paralysis, which may be "spastic" or "flaccid" according to whether or not the muscles are in a state of spasm. Paralysis that is due to a cerebral lesion is usually spastic in type, and this is also the case when a lesion in the spinal cord is above the lumbar enlargement. There are, however, cases in which, with a complete transverse lesion above the lumbar enlargement, flaccid instead of spastic paralysis results. Flaccid paralysis also occurs when the lesion is in the anterior horns of the spinal cord. So, too, the paralysis that I'esults from lesions of peripheral nerves is of flaccid type, as is that due to primary affection of the muscles. The state of nutrition of the paralysed muscles also depends on the seat of the lesion. When the lesion is in the brain, or interrupts some part of the motor path between the sensori- motor cortex and the nuclei of the motor cranial nerves, or the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord, there is no notable atrophy of the para- lysed muscles ; but when there is an affection of the nuclei of the motor cranial nerves, or of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, the para- lysed muscles waste, a feature shared by all palsies due to lesions of peripheral nerves, or when there is primary affection of the muscles. Indeed, in the latter class of affection the degree of paralysis is proportional to the amount of atrophy of the muscles. Although lesions in some situations do not cause atrophy of the paralysed muscles, it is noteworthy that a lesion of the central nervous system in the young, irrespective of its precise seat, is followed by retarded development, so that when these patients reach adult life, the maximum development of the paralysed parts is considerably less than that of corresponding regions on the opposite side of the body. This defect is not limited to the muscles, but is shared by the bones and other structures, and is well seen in those that have been at- tacked by acute anterior poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis), and in the subjects of infantile hemiplegia. In cases of paralysis loss of motor power may be the only defect of movement, but in other cases this is associated with disoi'dered move- ments which are spontaneous, or which are only evoked by voluntary effort. Athetosis or " mobile spasm," choreiform movements, and tremors of various kinds, may follow upon paralysis of cerebral origin, and are notably seen in infantile hemiplegia. In such cases there is always some return of voluntary power, and the disordered movement is not noticed for