PARALYSIS 295 normally. Owing to the complete loss of tone in the musclevS, the limb often hangs in a pendulum-like manner, and swings to and fro as the position of the body is altered. On electrical examination of the muscles at this stage it is found that they give the reaction of degeneration, i.e. they react very slightly, if at all, to faradic stimulation, and briskly to a galvanic current, the ACC being greater than the KCC. Fibrillary tremors are occasionally to be noted in the muscles, but they are not common. In reference to the statement made above that the atrophy of the muscle is not always obvious, it is important to bear in mind that at the time of life when a child begins to lose its excessive fat it is noticed that the leg is wasting, and therefore the disease is considered to be progressive, whereas this is not really the case. The temperature of the affected limb is markedly lowered even during the early stages of the disease ; the limb not only feels cold and is of a blue colour, but the actual temperature is some degrees below that of the normal limb. During this stage, although atrophy of the muscles is taking place, return of power is also in progress. Those muscle fibres that were represented in the cord by cells which have been completely destroyed, undergo atrophy, whereas other cells to which the damage was slighter recover, and the muscle fibres in con- nection with them also recover. In some cases the recovery of muscular power is comparatively rapid, and in a month or so there is good return of power; in others it is a much more gradual process, and may be prolonged over a year or more. It is during this stage that contracture takes place, and the factor that chiefly influences the production of such deformities is the extent of implication of any group of muscles; for in- stance, if all the muscles below the knee are completely paralysed very little deformity takes place, but if the anterior tibial group are con- siderably affected (as not infrequently happens) while the gastrocnemius is but little affected, then the foot tends to assume the position of talipes equinus; on the other hand, if the gastrocnemius is affected while the anterior tibial group are not paralysed, then there results a position of talipes calcaneiis. The knee-jerk is absent or present according to whether the quadriceps, and especially the vastus internus muscle, is or is not involved. The third stage of the disease is reached when there is neither further atrophy nor further recovery of power. The growth of the limb is impaired, so that as the child grows the affected limb becomes relatively shorter than the sound limb. The bones are thinner, the skin is soft and loose on the subcutaneous tissue, but the hair is normal, and it is stated that the erector muscles of the hair are also unaffected. Sometimes the growth of the limb is so much inhibited that it remains in a condition of com- plete atrophy, and as the individual grows it hangs down as an undeveloped appendage from the trunk. Owing to the shortening of one extremity it not infrequently happens that a condition of lateral curvature of the spine is produced, the pelvis becoming tilted so as to counteract the shortening of the limb. Following on the flaccidity of the muscles certain changes take place in the joints, the ligaments stretch, and the joint tends to fall away from its socket; this is especially well seen in the case of the shoulder-joint, and the head of the humerus can be felt to hang below the glenoid cavity. In the case of the knee-joint the stretching of the ligaments gives rise to a condition of genu recurvatum or genu valgum. If this condition be allowed to persist, changes take place in the surface of the joint so that they adapt them- selves to their new position. In this third stage the electrical excitability is so diminished in the paralysed muscles that they will no longer react either to faradism or to galvanism. The disease now remains stationary for years, and it may be for life; on the other hand, it must be noted that in a certain number of cases after the disease has been stationary for years progressive muscular atrophy begins to manifest itself, either in the limb originally affected or in one of the unaffected limbs. Di&trihution of the Paraly&is.—It is stated that the disease may give rise to paralysis of almost any muscle of the body; on the other hand, the seat of election is undoubtedly the muscles of the leg. Out of 595 cases of the disease collected by Allen Starr, in no less than 516 were one or both legs affected, i.e. 90 per cent. The muscles in the leg most commonly affected are the anterior tibial group; those least commonly affected in the limbs are the small muscles of the hands. The Production of Deformity.—The cause of the production of deformity has been a matter of some dispute. It is generally ascribed to the tonus which is present in the imaffected muscles; but some authors attribiite it to the force of gravity, together with the organic contraction whicii occurs in the affected muscles, and to the lack of development in the muscles and tendons while the osseous structures continue to grow in length. There is no doubt that all these factors have their influence, but in the deformities produced in the earlier stages of the disease it is certain that the most important factor is the effect of " tonus" in the normal or only partially paralysed muscles. This fact is well illustrated in the contrast there is between a case in which