PHAKMACOLOGY 452 discoloration of the urine. Salicin, a glucoside found in the willow and poplar, decomposes in the body, yielding salicylic acid. Aspirin, or acetyl-salicylic acid, presents little advantage over salicylic acid; it is said to be less de- pressant than salicylic acid. Benzoic acid has much the same action as salicylic acid; it is toxic only in large doses. It has little effect on the nervous system in man, and does not cause disturbances of hearing or sight; but in animals it produces convulsions and paralysis, with acceleration and then slowing of the pulse and respiration. It increases the bronchial secretion, and is excreted in the urine partly unchanged and partly as hippuric acid. The Benzoates have the same action, but are not irritating. All the coal-tar derivatives are (1) antipyretics, (2) antiseptics, because protoplasmic poisons, (3) narcotic to central nervous system ; they all (4) tend to change oxyhsemoglobin into methsemoglobin (see articles on " Antipyretics " and "Analgesics"). (4) Strychnine.—This alkaloid, with Brucine, is the principal constituent of the strychnos nux voniiccE. Others which resemble it are Oelsemine, and Thehaine, present in opium. The brunt of the action of strychnine falls on the spinal cord, the convulsions which it causes occurring when the medulla is divided, and even though the drug does not reach the peripheral nerves. Small doses render the special senses more acute — for example, the visual fields are enlarged, and the power of dis- criminating shades of colour enhanced—partly from central, partly from peripheral action, while probably the irritability of the motor cortex is also exaggerated. The first eff'ect of strychnine is to increase reflex excitability and muscular tonus, which is succeeded by tonic miisciilar spasm. The characteristic of the con- vulsion is its dependence on external stimuli, and a further peculiarity is that any stimulus always produces the maximal degree of spasm. In man, strychnine poisoning gives rise to stiffness of the neck muscles, then general clonic and tonic spasms with opisthotonos and consequent failure of respiration for the time being, and death from exhaustion and asphyxia after a comparatively short interval. That the muscular spasm requires in-coming impulses to initiate it is shown by the fact that convulsions do not occur when the terminations of the sensory nerves are paralysed by cocaine, nor when the posterior roots are divided. The con- vulsant action of strychnine is succeeded by depression and paralysis. The drug stimulates the respiratory and vaso-motor centres and the motor ganglia of the heart, but has no direct action on the cardiac muscle. It also acts as a simple bitter, while owing to the muscular energy evoked metabolism is increased. Brucine resembles strychnine, but is much weaker. Gelsemine has a feeble strychnine action ; it must be distinguished from gelsemi- nine, to which the effects of gelsemium are due. All these alkaloids are antagonised by chloral and by physostigmine. (5) Opinm Series.—From the papaver s(y>nni- ferum are obtained a great number of alkaloids of which Morphine is the most important. Chief among the others are Codeine, Thehaine, Narcotine, Papaverine, and Narceine; the re- mainder occur in traces only. The probable rational formula of morphine is— By substituting methyl for one of the hydroxyl molecules codeine is formed. Morphine has both a stimulant and a depres- sant action on the central nervous system ; on the whole the latter predominates in the higher centres, the former in the lower. In animals, these two conflicting actions prevail to a varying extent. In frogs poisoned with opium there is first a stage of motor depression and inco-ordina- tion, followed by a period of heightened reflex excitability culminating in convulsions as severe as those due to strychnine. In cats there is sometimes also a stage of excitement followed by convulsions. In man, however, the depressant effect pre- vails throughout the whole nervous system. In moderate doses the drug lessens cortical irritability, apparently by diminishing the power of concentrating the attention. Under its in- fluence stimuli are unnoticed so long as they remain of uniform strength ; on the other hand, svdden shocks are readily perceived. One of the chief effects of morphine is the relief of pain, which is attained by doses quite insufficient to interfere with consciousness. This property is related to the narcotic action of the drug, which produces drowsiness passing into sleep. In the lighter stages of narcosis the imagination runs riot; in the deeper, the sleep is sound and dreamless — yet the patient can be readily aroused, as readily to fall asleep again. After larger doses, sleep passes into torpor from which awakening is difficult, and eventually coma sets in {vide " Toxicology "). Tactile sensibility is diminished by small doses, but this seems to be a central effect. Respiration is at first slow and deep; then becomes shallow and irregular, and finally paralysed. The circulatory centres are but little directly affected. The superficial vessels of the face and neck are dilated, but heart failure is merely secondary to asphyxia. The peripheral nerves are unaffected. The pupils become contracted to a pin-point; this action is central, not local. The action of morphine on the nervous system, then, is one of depres- sion first of the higher psychical and sensory functions, passing down, and eventually attack-