PARALYSIS 321 duced by fright has been called attention to by more than one author. The view taken by Dr. Hughlings Jackson that the morbid condition lies in the cerebellum, is one of great interest. He suggests that there is a loss of the normal balance between the antagonising influences of the cerebrum and cerebellum. Diagnosis.—In a typical case the bent position of the body, the fixed expression of the face, the muscular rigidity, and the tremor make the diagnosis a matter of great simplicity. Even in cases where the tremor is absent the position of the patient and the rigidity of the muscles were so characteristic that a mistake can hardly occur. The tremor of senility resembles that of paralysis agitans very closely, but the char- acteristic position of the limbs and trunk are wanting, the head is chiefly affected, and the tremor is only brought out or is increased on voluntary movement. From disseminated sclerosis paralysis agitans is distinguished by the later age of incidence, the attitude, the character of the tremor, which is not increased on volitional movement, and by the absence of nystagmus, diplopia, optic atrophy, and aff'ection of the sphincters. The tremors due to alcohol, mercury, brass, and other toxic agents are distinguished by the absence of the characteristic attitude, propulsion, and subjective sensory sensations, while there is direct evidence that one or other of these toxic agents has been in operation. From hysterical tremor it is only during the early period of the disease that any difliculty can really arise when the tremor is limited to one arm or hand, and the characteristic attitude has not developed. The tremor is more in- fluenced by psychical phenomena, the oscilla- tions are greater, and other signs of hysteria can be detected. In Huntingdon's chorea the amplitude of the movement is greater and more irregular; the muscles of the face share in the movement. The characteristic attitude is wanting, and the hereditary and family history and the signs of mental impairment are sufficient to make the diagnosis clear. In the tremor of hemiplegic origin the uni- lateral character, the greater rigidity, the in- creased reflexes on the affected side, and the history of sudden onset, would probably be sufficient to allow of a correct diagnosis. From chronic chorea and post-hemiplegic chorea there should be no difficulty in distinguishing the movements. Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavourable ; improvement and cure can only take place most rarely. The disease itself rarely causes death, but some intercurrent affection, most commonly of the respiratory system, is usually responsible for the fatal issue. Treatment.—In general, rest both bodily and mental is of the first importance. In an early VOL. VII stage this may be attempted by rest in bed, but the patient often becomes so restless under this treatment that it should not be persisted in unless marked improvement has taken place. Patients often feel better while they are taking some exercise. Passive movements may be tried with some benefit. Warm baths for a prolonged period have been used with good results, and the same may be said of applications of the constant current. All manner of drugs have been tried with most varying results. The following are those most in use: belladonna, ergot, arsenic, can- nabis indica, eserine, silver nitrate, strychnine, iodide of potassium, opium, hyoscine, biborate of soda, bromide salts, sulphate of duboisin, tincture of veratrum viride, and tincture of gelsemium. Sodium salicylate may be useful in those cases in which there is much joint pain. Of historical interest are the shaking sofa and the vibratory jacket, which were invented in response to the observation that patients were better after a railway journey and after being shaken up in a bus; they have not, however, been shown to be attended with any beneficial results. Patients frequently adopt various methods and attitudes in order to prevent the tremor, one of the most common being to fix the hands by placing them on the knees. In late cases special precautions have to be taken against the formation of bedsores, and the position of the patient must be frequently changed. Hereditary Ataxy (Friedreich's Disease).— Definition.—An hereditary and family form of disease occurring in the first and second decades of life, the leading features of which are ataxia, nystagmus, deformities of the spine and feet, and absent knee-jerks. Etiology.—The most important factor in the etiology of this disease is its tendency to affect several members of a family; not only does the malady affect brothers and sisters, but it also passes from parent to child for, it may be, three to four generations ; certain members of a family may escape, but the disease may reappear in their children. Other members of the same family not in- frequently suff'er from some nervous affection, such as insanity, epilepsy, or chorea. There is no evidence to show that syphilis or alcohol in the parents bears any causal relation to the disease. The occurrence of the acute specific fevers has, we believe, more influence on the onset of the disease than is generally supposed, and this factor is usually more marked in isolated cases that when many members of a family are affected. Both sexes are about equally liable to be attacked. The age at which the onset of the disease is 21