PARASITES 352 Not infrequently there have been no symptoms whatever during life ; in other cases there have been headache, vertigo, diplopia, optic neuritis, hydrocephalus, and other cerebral phenomena. Intra-ocular cysticerci have been most fre- quent in Germany. The parasite is usually subretinal, may cause detachment of the retina, and may penetrate through into the vitreus. Subconjunctival cysticerci are still less common, and in the areolar tissue of the orbit they are exceedingly rare. The heart is not often infected, although in rare instances the myocardium has been exten- sively infected, but the condition gives rise to no symptoms which enable a diagnosis to be made during life. General infection of the muscles and subcutaneous tissue is exceedingly rare ; it causes symptoms resembling those of myositis or extensive peripheral neuritis. An increase in the number of eosinophile leucocytes may be expected. Achard and Loeper (1900), recording this condition in one case, found that injection of the fluid contained within the cysticercus into a mouse increased the number of its eosinophile leucocytes. A clinical diagnosis can only be made when the cysticercus is within the eye, or is situated subcutaneously and can be excised ; the prog- nosis depends on the site and number of the larvae, and surgical treatment alone is of value. Ta"tiia africana (von Linstow, 1900); two imperfect examples found in German East Africa. The head is unarmed, the neck is thick, and the genital pores alternate irregularly from side to side. Taenia asiatica (von Linstow, 1901); one example found in Asiatic Eussia, 298 mm. long. The genital pores are all on one lateral margin. Dipylidium caninum (Linne, 1758); Syn. : Tcenia canina (Linne, 1758); Taenia cucumerina (Bloch, 1782); etc.—This worm is 10 to 40 cm. in length, the head has a rostellum, four circlets of small hooks, and four suckers. The ripe proglottides have the shape of melon - seeds, and each has a double repi-oductive system with two genital pores, one on either lateral margin. It is a common parasite of the dog and cat, and has occasionally been found in children. There have usually been several examples of the worm in the individual cases. The cysti- cercoid larva, Cryptocystis trichodectis, is found in the common dog flea; seldom in the dog louse, or in Pulex irritans of man. Hymenolepsiii nana (von Siebold, 1852); Syn. : Tcfnia nanxi (von Siebold, 1852); etc.—It is about 1-2 cm. in length, and 0"7 cm. in its greatest transverse diameter. The head has a rostellum, one circlet of 24-30 small hooks, and four suckers. There are about two hundred proglottides in all. The genital pores are all situated on the same lateral aspect of the chain. The worms are usually multiple, and penetrate into the intestinal mucous membrane. They are rare, except in Italy and Sicily, where they are not at all uncommon. This parasite is regarded by some as identical with Hymeno- lepsis murina — a tapeworm of the rat and mouse, and the larva of which is a cysticercoid found in the same host as the adult worm. Hymenolepsis diminuta (Rudolphi, 1819); Syn.: Tcenia diminuta (Rudolphi, 1819); T. jiavopimctata (Weinland, 1858); etc. — It is 20-60 cm. long, 3'5 mm. broad, the head is unarmed, and the genital pores are all on the same lateral aspect of the chain. It is a common parasite in the rat, mouse, and other rodents, and has been detected in one or two instances in children. The cysticercoid larva is found in certain insects: in beetles, in Asopia farinalis both in the butterfly and caterpillar stages, and in Anisolabis annulipes — one of the Orthoptera. Davainea madagascariensis (Davaine, 1869) ; Syn. : Taenia madagascariensis (Davaine, 1869). —This cestode is 25-30 cm. in length, and has 500-700 proglottides. The head has two circlets of hooks. The genital pores are all on the one lateral margin of the worm. It has been found in a few cases in Madagascar, Mauritius, and Bangkok. The larval stage is not known. Bothriocephalus latus (Bremser, 1819); Syn.: Dibothriocephalus vulgaris (Linne, 1758).—This FIQ. 19.—Head of Bothriocephalus laUts(x8). A, from the flat side ; B, from the margin. (After Leuokart.) parasite has a length of 16-26 feet, and is con- sequently the largest human tapeworm. The head is oval or almond-shaped, 2-3 mm. long, has neither suckers nor hooks, but has a deep furrow or groove on each side, corresponding to the dorsal and ventral aspects of the proglottides. The neck is of variable length, and behind it there are 3000-4000 proglottides, sexual ma- turity being attained about the 600th. The breadth of the proglottides much exceeds their length, except towards the far end of the chain from the head, when they become longer and narrower. The genital pore of each proglottis is situated in the median line of the ventral surface, the orifice of the genital cloaca being in front of the smaller uterine aperture. The uterus is a simple convoluted tube, the convolu- tions being arranged so as to resemble a rosette with from four to seven loops. The testes number about seven hundred, and are situated in