169 OLIVER'S H^MOCYTOMETEE through a tube containing a mixture of blood and Hayem's solution. See Blood (^Enumeration of Corpuscles). Oliver's Hsemodynamometer. See Pulse {Measurement of Arterial Pressure). Oliver's Hsemog'lobinometer.— An instrument for estimating the percentage of hsemoglobin in the blood. See H^moglobin- OMETER; Blood (Estimation of Hoemoglohin, Oliver's Instr^mient). Oliver's Symptom.—Pulsation of the larynx, detected by grasping it with the fingers ; it is present in aneurysm of the arch of the aorta and in some cases of mediastinal tumour. Oliver's Test.—A method of detecting albumin in the urine by adding solutions of citric acid and sodium tungstate, a white ring being formed where the solutions come in contact with the urine if albumin be present. Ollier'S La.W.—The statement that when one of two bones which are parallel to each other and united at their ends by ligaments has its growth arrested, the other one has its development interfered with. Omagra.—Gout in the shoulder (Gr. Jj/xos, shoulder). Omasum. See Manyplies. Omelet. See Invalid-Feeding {Cooltery in Diabetes, Savoury Omelet). Omentopexy. — The fixation of the omentum to the abdominal wall, as carried out in hepatic cirrhosis in order to establish a collateral circulation between the portal and systemic vessels. Omentum.—A fold of peritoneum passing from the stomach to other abdominal organs, e.g. the transverse colon (great omentum), the liver (lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum), etc. See Abdomen, Injuries of {Lesions of Omentum); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Omentum); Ascites {Causation, Carcinoma of Gastro-hepatic Omentum); Hernia {Contents, Omentum); Ovaries, Diseases of {Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumours, Hydatids of Omentum). Omo-.—In compound words omo- (Gr. S^nos, the shoulder) means relating to the shoulder; e.g. the omohyoid muscle, one attached to the scapula (or shoulder bone) and to the hyoid bone. Omodynia. — Pain in the shoulder, especially of the nature of muscular rheumatism; scapulodynia. Omophag^ia. — The practice of eating raw food (Gr. ci/xds, raw or vmdressed). Omphalitis.—Inflammation of the imi- bilicus (Gr. o/x<^aA.os, the navel). See New-born Infant {Umbilical Infections); Umbilicus, Dis- eases OF {Sepsis and Infective Processes). O m p halo-.—In compound words omphalo- (Gr. o/x<^aAos, the navel) means relating to the navel or umbilicus, e.g. omphaloncus or a tumour at the navel. Omphalo-Angiopagrous. — The English form of the name proposed by Taruffi for placental parasites or twins united together by the vessels of the cord and placenta; allan- toido-angiopagous twins {Ballantyne). See Tera- tology {Types of Terata, Polysom/itous). Omphalocele. — Hernia at the \\m- bilicus. OmphalOCephaly.—A remarkable teratological type met with in the artificially hatched chick, in which there is absence of the anterior part of the intestine or pharynx and the head seems to protrude from the umbilicvis, the heart (single or double) lying on the nape of the neck or the dorsal region. Omphalomesenteric or Om- phalomesaraiC. — Relating to the um- bilicus and the mesentery, e.g. the omphalo- mesenteric duct, arteries, and veins. See Em- bryology (Third Week); Heart, Physiology of {Embryology); Umbilicus, Diseases of {Per- sistent Omphalomesenteric Duct, Adenomata). Omphalopag^US. —A form of double monster in which the two foetuses are united at the umbilicus. Omphalophlebitis. —inflamma- tion of the Timbilical vein. Omphalorrh ag I a. — Htemorrhage from the umbilicus, especially that grave variety which may occur witli the fall of the cord on the fifth or sixth day after birth. See New- born Infant {Umbilical Hcemorrliage). Omphalosite.—A placental parasite, often acardiac. Omphalotripsy. — The treatment of the umbilical cord by compression with strong forceps; the cord may be ligatured as well as compressed. See New-born Infant {Manage- ment, Treatment of Umbilical Cord). Onanism. — Incomplete sexual coitus. See Hypnotism {Uses). Oncology.—The science of tumours and neoplastic formations (Gr. oyxos, a mass). Oncometer. — A closed capsule con- nected with a recording apparatus, for measur- ing variations in the volume of an organ, e.g. spleen or kidney. See Physiology, Excretion {Physiology of Renal Secretion).