399 PENIS, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE from the dorsum and sides of the penis, and the corpora cavernosa divided at the point of transfixion. After stopping haemorrhage the dorsal flap is punctured and the urethra drawn through it, sht up, and stitched. The flaps are then united. This method secures a skin covering for the corpora cavernosa. Total Extirpation. —This operation is required for severe cases extending back to the scrotum. The scrotum is split along the raphe and the corpus spongiosum dissected out, cut through, and enough left to bring out at the perineum. By a blunt dissector the crura and capsule are detached on each side from the pubic arch. The suspensory ligament is divided and the dorsal arteries secured. The cut end of the corpus spongiosum is slit up and stitched to the posterior part of the scrotal incision, and the wound closed. Any enlarged glands should be removed at the same time. Wheelhouse advises castration after amputation of the penis, as the testicles are a source of annoyance. Other Conditions of the Penis Chordee.—This occurs as a complication of urethritis, and consists of painful erections at night. The penis is twisted or bent downwards. This is due to effusion of inflammatory products into the corpus spongiosum, causing unequal distension of the penis during erection. The best treatment is a camphor pill at bed-time, or one containing opium, camphor, and belladonna. A morphia or cocaine suppository may also be given. Preputial Calculi.—These may originate in the bladder or in situ. In the latter case they are due to smegma impregnated with lime salts or to stagnated urine in a long prepuce. Vesical calculi may be arrested in a phimosed prepuce. Priapism.—This is a form of continuous erection without sexual desire. It may be complete or incomplete. It is caused by injury during coitus or excessive indulgence, giving rise to extravasation of blood into the cavernous tissue. It may also follow injury to the cervical or upper dorsal cord. In children a temporary priapism is caused by phimosis, vesical calculus, or ascarides. If due to extravasation of blood the condition may last several weeks. Treat- ment is not satisfactory; purgatives, tartar emetic, mercury, and iodides have little effect. Incisions have been tried with success. Pennyroyal, Oil of. See Toxicology (A bortifacients). Pental. —Trimethylethylene (C5H10); it has been used as an anaesthetic, but is inflam- mable and has a penetrating odour. See Anes- thesia {Other Anaesthetics, Pental). Pentane.—A paraffin of the pentacarbon series (C5HJ2) ; one of the hydrocarbons; a quintane. Three pentanes are known, normal pentane, isopentane, and neopentane, all of them colourless, mobile fluids. Pentastomum. See Liver, Liver Parasites {Pentastomum Constrictum); Para- sites {A7-thropods, Pentastomum Denticulaturn). Pentose.—A sugar containing five carbon atoms; arabinose. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars); Pancreas, Physiology OF {Pentose in Ui'ine). Pentosuria. See Diabetes Mellitus {Definition); Glycosuria {Pentosuria); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars). " Pepana."—The name given to tabloids, prepared by Burroughs, Wellcome & Co., con- taining both pepsin and pancreatin, and so con- structed that the former is set free in the stomach and the pancreatin in the intestine. Pepo. See Cucurbits Semina Preparata. Pepper. — Black Pepper is the unripe fruit of Piper nigrum, a vine of the East Indies. It contains an oleo-resin, piperine (an alkaloid), and piperidine (a neutral principle). Its dose is 5-20 grs. Preparation—Confectio Piperis. Dose—60-120 grs. Pepper may be used ex- ternally as a counter-irritant in the same class of cases as mustard, and internally as a gastro- intestinal carminative and stimulant. It is occasionally employed as a gargle in relaxed throat. It has been recommended as a stimu- lant for chronic atonic conditions of the genito- urinary mucous membranes, but must never be administered when any acute inflammatory con- dition, such as gonorrhoea, is present. Peppermint.—Oleum Menthoi Piperitoi is obtained from the leaves and tops of Mentha piperita. It has a characteristic aromatic odour and taste, and from it is obtained menthol or mint camphor. Its action is the same as that of volatile oils generally. Its dose is |-3 m. Preparations—1. Aqua Menthae Piperitae, 1 in 1000. Dose —1-2 3. 2. Spiritus Menthae Piperitae. Dose—5-20 m. Oil of peppermint, on a piece of linen or muslin, has been used as a local anaesthetic in facial neuralgia. It may cause blistering of the skin and severe burning pain. A few drops placed on cotton-wool and inserted into the cavity of a carious tooth may relieve toothache. Internally it acts as a stomachic and carminative, and is therefore employed in cases of flatulence, infantile colic, and to prevent the griping of purgatives. The aqua is largely used as a flavouring agent. Pepsin. See also Digestion and Meta- bolism {Gastric Digestion); Enzymes {Dissolving Albumen); Invalid-Feeding {Peptonised Foods); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Stomach Secretion).—A digestive ferment of the gastric