335 PARANOIA met with. The symptoms do not differ from those observed in the degenerate, but the course of the affection in the latter is diff'erent. One important distinction is the rapidity with which insanity in the degenerate may become systema- tised. Slowly and under the prolonged in- fluence of hallucinations the delusions in the chronic form develop, but in the degenerate they may burst forth, fully formed, without the accompaniment of hallucinations. The manifestation of systematised insanity in the degenerate is also more irregular and varied. The onset of the insanity may be slow and insidious, or quick and explosive. In the first instance the patient is usually a recluse, and reasons out his own symptoms step by step, or he consults books of every description, from which he culls irrelevant passages, which he believes to have a bearing on his own case. The affection may present itself in any of the following forms:— (1) The commencement may be ambition, with delusions of exaltation. A patient who has previously been reticent and shy may all at once be convinced that he is born to great things and with a special destiny. Such people deny their parentage, and assign to themselves exalted origin. Yet these insane ideas appear to have little root, and the belief in their reality does not seriously affect the real life of the subject. Gradually delusions of persecution come to be added to the ideas of grandeur. The patient imagines that his name or his exalted position renders him an object of suspicion and hatred to others, who, by plotting and persecution, wish to deprive him of his rights. From this point a regular systematised insanity of persecution is developed. (2) Delusions of persecution may manifest themselves first of all. These appear to originate very much after the manner of imperative ideas, and are usually systematised without the aid of hallucinations, which come on, as a rule, later in the course of the disease. They in their turn may be followed by delusions of pride and grandeur and an ambitious insanity. (3) The two forms (ambition and persecution) may bm-st out simultaneously, progress side by side, and succeed each other alternately, causing periods of depression and exaltation. (4) The manifestations of the systematised delusional insanity may be preceded by, inter- rupted by, or terminated by attacks of acute insanity, such as mania, melancholia, or stupor. (5) The character of the insanity varies ac- cording to the intellectual development of the patient. When the patient is of limited intelli- gence the delusions are usually ridiculous and absurd, but when the intelligence is of a higher order they correspond more to the tone and definiteness of those of a case of true systema- tised insanity. But, as has been indicated, the character of the delusions of the degenerate is feeble and lacking in conviction and reality. This feature and the variability of the symptoms depend upon the weakness and exceedingly unstable mental constitution of the patients. (6) The terminations of the affection are also numerous. Sometimes the cases pass through a whole series of changes—ambition, persecution, with recuri'ent maniacal melancholic or stuporose attacks, and ultimately recover. In others the character of the symptoms frequently alters, but the end is dementia. Others, again, pass through a metamorphosis from ambition to per- secution, or vice versd, and remain in the latter phase until recovery or during life. Prognosis.—It is unnecessary to state that in such a hydra-headed group of insanities prognosis must be a matter of great difficulty. Generally speaking, it is in the majority of cases unfavourable. The more acute the symptoms the more rapidly the insanity changes; and the more frequent is the admixture of acute general conditions, such as mania and melancholia, the more favourable is the prospect. Conversely, the more chronic the symptoms are, the more unchangeable the insanity ; and the more con- firmed the mental condition which underlies all the symptoms, the more unfavourable the prognosis. The term "secondary paranoia" has been applied by some writers to the delusional states met with in certain forms of melancholia, espe- cially anxious and hypochondriacal melancholia, and to the delusion met with in some forms of terminal dementia. In the former the delusions bear little or no resemblance to those of paranoia, and in the latter they are too indefinite and too loosely systematised to be entered into a separate classification. Pa,ra.nuClein.—A combination of albu- men with metaphosphoric acid. Pa,ra.n UCleon.—Phospho-carnic acid. Paranucleus.—A small body lying near the nucleus of a cell, and perhaps origina- ting in the nucleus ; a subsidiary nucleus. Paraparesis.—Partial paralysis of the lower limbs. Pa,ra,pa.th ia.—Moral insanity. Paraphasia. — A form of aphasia in which one word is used when another is in- tended, or in which a word is mispronounced. See Aphasia {Clinical Features). Parapllia.—An anomaly in the sense of touch. Paraphimosis. — Retraction of the prepuce behind the glans penis, with resulting vascular engorgement of the glans from con- striction. See Urethra, Diseases of {Goitm--