PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 506 same bit of muscle or nerve is subjected to anelec- trotonus on one side and katelectrotonus on the other, and the efTects of the two poles, and there- Kathode. Anode. Skin A. Fig. 18, A . Electrical stimulation of human muscle or nerve to show the passage of the cur- rent across the structure, and the consequent combination of effects under each pole. M, making or closing the current; B, openin< M, medium ; S, strong current. fore of closing and of opening, tend to be com- bined, although the influence of the pole placed immediately above the muscle predominates. change in the primary circuit causes the sudden and practically simultaneous appearance and disappearance of an electric current in the muscle, and this of course causes a contraction. But here the effects of closing and opening the current are practically fused, and hence the influence of the anode and kathode, and of closing and open- ing, need not be considered (Fig. 20). It must, of course, be re- membered, that in an induc- tion coil the opening of the primary circuit produces a more powerful current in the secondary coil than the clos- ure of the primary circuit, and therefore a more power- ful stimulation of the muscle (Fig. 20). 7 f •f ^ B A A ^ or breaking the current. W, weak; Electric Current. Make. Break. Make. Contraction of Muscle, Kathode. Anode. 2. The Changes in Muscle during Contraction I. Change in Shape. — The most manifest change is an alteration in the A shape of the muscle. It becomes I 1 shorter and thicker. This any- I 1 one can see by studying their own biceps muscle. Contrac- tion of muscle, however, is not a necessary result of excitation. Thus, a part of a muscle when dipped in water may fail to con- tract when stimulated, but may manifest its excitation by con- Break. Kathode. Anode. Galvanic. Induced. Fig. 19.—To show separation of make and break stimuli and of anodal and kathodal effects ducting the impulse to the part when a galvanic current is used, and their combination when the induction coil is used. the inuscle not in the Water Hence with a strong current contraction occurs and thus making it both on closing and on opening at both poles. As the current is weakened the contraction at the kathode on opening first disappears, because the anode is not predominant. Next, contrac- tion at the anode on opening disappears because the anodal stimulation is so much weaker than the kathodal. Then, the contraction at the anode on closing goes because the kathode is not predominating; and, finally, the contraction at the kathode on closing also disappears. When the muscle is in one stage of the degeneration which follows separation from its nerve, the anodal closing contraction (Fig. 18, Anode M) becomes much exaggerated. This is called the reaction of degeneration. When muscle is stimulated by induced elec- tricity (Fig. 20) the question is much easier, for, with each make and break or each sudden alteration in the strength of the primary circuit, there is a sudden appearance and equally sudden disappearance of a flow of electricity in the secondary coil. If, therefore, wires from the secondary coil are led off to a muscle, each contract In skeletal muscle, the shortening and thickening of the muscle as a whole is due to the shortening and thickening of the individual fibres and their fibrils. In these fibrils the shortening and thick- ening is most marked in the dim band. The clear band also shortens, and at the same time it becomes darker till, in the fully contracted muscle, it may be as dark as the dim band (Fig. 21). Fig. 20.—Course of electric cur- rent in primary circuit (lower line), and in secondary circuit (upper line) of an induction coil. Observe that iu the secondary the make (upstroke) and break (dowustroke) are combined, and that a stron^'er current is developed in the secondary circuit upon break- ing than upon making the primary circuit. These appearances may best be explained on the assumption that the fibrils are the part of the fibre which shorten and thicken, and that