253 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF pancreas may be found to be hard and perhaps nodular like scirrhus cancer. If ascites be present the tumour will probably be malignant. The lymphatic glands in the lesser omentum may be enlarged in both cancer and chronic pancreatitis ; but in the latter they will be dis- crete and soft, in the former hard and perhaps infiltrating. Adhesions are usually associated with chronic pancreatitis, but are generally absent in cancer. Very great assistance in diagnosis may be obtained by a careful pathological investigation of the urine and faeces. From the urine, by means of the phenylhydrazine test, certain crystals dissolving in dikite sulphuric acid in a few seconds can be obtained in cases of inflam- mation of the pancreas (Cammidge's reaction), and, microscopicall}', calcium oxalate crystals can usually be found in abundance. The faeces not only show an abnormal pro- portion of fat, but it is in the form of neutral fat. Muscle fibres and other remnants of undigested food are also found. The fseces are bulky, pale in colour, at times even quite white and yield an acid reaction. For a full descrip- tion of the importance of these and other tests, and the method of carrying them out, reference may be made to Diseases of the Pancreas, by Mayo Robson and P. J. Cammidge (Saunders and Co., 1907). Illustrative Cases of Chronic Pancreatitis Chronic Pancreatitis ; Cholecystotomy ; Cure.— A man, aged forty-five years, was sent to me on October 25, 1898, by Dr. J. B. Berry, of Keighley. The patient was very deeply jaundiced, and told me that he had lost a stone in weight since the onset of his illness five weeks before. He gave the history of having had attacks of pain referred to the region of the gall-bladder nine years previously, but they were unaccompanied by jaundice, and passed off after prolonged treatment. From that time onward he had been free from attacks of pain up to the onset of the present illness five weeks before, when he was suddenly seized with severe pain at the pit of the stomach and became jaundiced. The pain had recurred daily, and had been so severe as to necessitate his taking morphia. Dr. Berry noticed a swelling in the region of the gall- bladder a fortnight after the onset of his illness, and there was all along well-marked tenderness at the epigastrium, with gradually increasing enlargement of the liver. The patient's general health rapidly failed, and the loss of flesh was well marked. When I saw him he looked pinched and ill, he was very deeply jaundiced, and the urine was loaded with lithates, but con- tained neither albumin nor sugar. There were well-marked tenderness at the epigastrium, and a smooth tumour, which was not very tender, in the gall-bladder region ; the liver was enlarged, and the edge was smooth, and could easily be felt an inch below the costal margin. A diagnosis of gall-stones in the common bile-duct was made, and the patient was admitted into the Leeds General Infirmary. The operation was performed on Septemper 27, 1898. On opening the abdomen numerous adhesions between the gall-bladder and liver and the pylorus, colon, omentum, and duodenum were found. The gall-bladder was slightly distended, but no gall- stones were felt either in it or in the cystic or common duct. There was, however, a hard nodular swelling of the head of the pancreas which at the time was thought to be malignant. In order to give relief the adhesions were de- tached, and the gall-bladder was drained by cholecystotomy. On October 28, I wrote to Dr. Berry telling him that I feared the disease of the pancreas might be malignant, but there was a possibility of its being a chronic pan- creatitis. On November 5, I wrote a letter to this effect: "I am pleased to be able to tell you that your patient has improved very much, and the jaundice has nearly disappeared. I hope, therefore, that the tumour of the head of the pancreas may have been inflammatory and not malignant. At the time of operation it occurred to me that it was not quite hard enough for a malignant tumour, but under the circumstances I felt it my duty to give you my suspicions." From that time onwards recovery was uninterrupted, and the patient left the hospital with the wound closed within the month. In December 1899, the patient, at the kind suggestion of Dr. Berry, called to report himself to me. He looked perfectly healthy, and had gained over a stone in weight since his return home. He had neither pain nor tenderness, and he said that he felt as well as if he had never ailed anything. The scar was firm, the liver was normal, and there was not the slightest tenderness in the gall-bladder region. Chronic Pancreatitis \ Cholecystotomy; Cii/re. —The patient, a man aged forty-five, residing at Pickering, was brought on March 19, 1898, to see me by Mr. G. V. Robertson, of Pickering, the history being that he had been well up to twelve months before, when he began to have painful attacks at the pit of the stomach, end- ing in vomiting, but not followed by jaundice until an attack on January 1, 1898, since which time he had been deeply and continuously jaundiced. He had also from that time on- wards had ague-like attacks, and two days before seeing me he had had within twenty-four hours three of these seizures, each accompanied by pain. Within a twelvemonth he had lost 2 St. 8 lb. in weight. On examining him there was some swelling in the gall-bladder region, but no tenderness. The liver was a little en- larged, but the margins felt smooth. There was decided tenderness in the middle line just above the umbilicus, and on deep pressure the