PELLAGUA 376 the patients it is more or less denuded of epi- thelium, while the palate also is bare in some of the worst cases. In early cases it is only the extreme tip and the sides which, on careful examination, show preternatural cleanliness. A few of the worst cases of "bald tongue" show also a painless enlargement of both parotid glands. The tongue is merely an index of the stomach, which is very early affected, as shown Egyptian girl, set. 8, showing- eruption on face, hands, forearms, feet, and legs. by the usual evidences of chronic gastritis, anorexia, epigastric pain, and tenderness, flatu- lence, and thirst. Vomiting is not present. Constipation or diarrhoea may or may not occur quite early in the attack, but diarrhoea is an almost invariable accompaniment of the last stages. The urine shows no marked abnormality. Pellagra while vuitreated invariably causes loss of weight, and eventually produces great emaciation. I have seen patients with diar- rhoea and melancholia lose as much as nineteen pounds' weight in hospital in three weeks before death, while the convalescents without diarrhoea have gained from five to thirty pounds. The diarrhoea is believed by Babes to be due to irritation of the sympathetic ganglia and the plexus of Auerbach. There are many reasons for thinking it is tropho-neurotic. 3. If seen in the acute Stage, an intelligent patient often complains of pains in the back which in severe cases may even compel him to walk with his body arched. On ex- amination, he will have pain on both sides of the dorsal vertebrae over the spinal nerves, if gently pressed there with a knuckle. The favourite seat for this tenderness is near the fourth to the ninth dorsal spines, and the tenderness will often be asymmetrical. This symptom invariably dis- appears after a few weeks' rest, and is not present in quiescent cases. The knee reflex may also be asymmetrical, correspond- ing with unequal tender- ness in the back. At first it is slightly exaggerated, then markedly so, prob- ably associated with irri- tation of the posterior spinal roots. This is the time of tenderness on both sides of the dorsal and upper lumbar vertebrae, and the abdominal and epigastric reflexes are ex- tremely brisk. Later in the case the knee-jerk becomes dulled, and event- ually quite abolished, manifesting a lesion in the posterior nerve-roots in the second, third, or fourth lumbar segment. The patient, until he becomes bedridden, does not develop contraction of his lower limbs or paraplegia. He retains control of bladder and rectum, and has no bed-sores. The knee-jerk becomes less abnormal while the patient is under treatment if there be an im- provement in the other symptoms. Ankle and wrist clonus are very rare, only occurring in a few incurable cases. Insomnia is an important nerve symptom, coming on very early, and remaining until the patient is given complete rest and good food as