NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 23 of the face, neck, or trunk, or of the intercostals has been recorded. Sometimes the diaphragm becomes paralysed. The localised paralysis usually disappears in a few weeks, but the severe generalised affection of the limbs generally does not disappear for three months or longer. The prognosis is favourable when the affection is limited to localised paralysis of the palate or ocular muscles. In the severe forms the chief dangers consist of cardiac failure (? due to neu- ritis of the vagus); inability to swallow, and slow starvation; broncho-pneumonia through the entrance of food, etc., into the trachea ; and paralysis of the diaphragm from neuritis of the phrenic nerve. The diagnosis is easy if the paralytic symp- toms follow a well-marked attack of diphtheria. But often the throat affection has been slight and its nature indefinite ; in such cases the com- bination of paralysis of the palate and of the ciliary muscles, along with absent knee-jerks, is almost diagnostic. If the local paralysis of the palate or ocular muscles have disappeared the difference of the sensory symptoms in diphtheritic and alcoholic paralysis is of importance : in diph- theritic neuritis pain in the limbs and tenderness of the nerves and muscles are slight or absent; in alcoholic and arsenical neuritis, usually marked. The ataxic form differs from true tabes by its more rapid development, by the absence of shooting pain, and usually by the normal pupillary reactions. Pathological Anatomy. — The most constant and important change is multiple neuritis in the peripheral nerves. The nerves in the neighbour- hood of the diphtheritic process (soft palate and fauces) are first affected; they present marked neuritic changes. In the limbs the neuritic changes are most marked in the finest branches of the peripheral nerves, and the nearer the spinal cord the nerves are examined the less marked are the changes. The neuritis is some- times of the degenerative or parenchymatous form. In other cases there is both parenchyma- tous and interstitial neuritis; the connective tissue between the nerve-fibres is increased, and occasionally, by oedema and inflammation of the connective tissue, small nodular swellings are produced. Microscopically these small swell- ings present infiltration of the connective tissue with numerous cells—leucocytes and compound granular cells. Not infrequently in the cranial nerves supply- ing the larynx and eye muscles neuritic changes are found. Changes have also been recorded in the cardiac and pharyngeal plexus. Occasionally degeneration has been found in the anterior spinal nerve-roots. In some cases the nerve-cells of the anterior horns of grey matter of the spinal cord are atrophied, and their processes diminished ; also occasionally a proliferation of the neuroglia of this region with increase of its nuclei has been recorded. The paralysed muscles may show no definite changes microscopically, or degenerative atrophy may be found similar to that observed when muscle nerves are degenerated. In a few rare cases the muscular changes have been marked, and the interstitial connective tissue proliferated. No diphtheria bacilli can be found in the degen- erated nerves, and it has been shown by the experiments of Roux and of Sidney Martin that paralysis and peripheral neuritis can be caused in animals by the injection of a toxin obtained from a cultivation of the diphtheria bacilli. There can be no doubt that a toxin produced by the diphtheria bacillus is the cause of the diphtheritic neuritis in man. Puerperal Multiple Neuritis.—This is a very rare form of neuritis which may occur both during pregnancy and after delivery. It is not due to injury of nerves during parturition. It has been attributed to pvierperal auto-intoxica- tion. The diagnosis depends on the association of the neuritis with pregnancy or parturition, and the absence of alcoholism or other causes. (Turney admits that not infrequently alcohol and the puerperal state seem to co-operate.) In the most common generalised form the symptoms correspond to those of alcoholic multiple neuritis. In a few cases optic neuritis has been also present. In a second form there is a localised polyneuritis of the upper or lower limbs with pains, nerve tenderness, paralysis, and muscular wasting. In the upper limbs the ulnar and median nerves are most affected ; in the lower limbs the anterior crural and sciatic nerves. In a third form neuritis of a single nerve (ulnar or sciatic) is met with. In a few rare cases the symptoms have resembled those of Landry's paralysis. (An obstetrical neuritis, due to the traumatic injury of nerves in the pelvis during delivery, has also been recorded.) The pathological examination in a case re- ported by Korsakow and Serbski revealed parenchymatous neuritis in the peripheral nerves—most marked in the smallest branches. There were also changes in the lumbar and sacral plexus and in several cranial nerves. There was an increase of neuroglia in Goll's columns and in the lateral columns of the spinal cord; otherwise the central nervous system was normal. Diabetic Neuritis.—The knee-jerks are not infrequently absent in hospital patients suffer- ing from a severe form of diabetes mellitus. In 100 hospital cases suffering from diabetes mellitus the writer found the knee-jerks both absent in 49, both present in 45, one absent and one present in 6. Amongst diabetic patients seen in private practice the knee-jerks are only absent in a small percentage. In 30 cases seen in private practice recently by the writer the knee-jerks were present in all. The loss of the knee-jerks is probably due to