51C PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM When the contractions follow one another at such a rate that the relaxation period of the first contraction has begun, but is not com- pleted, before the second contraction takes place, a lever attached to the muscle, and made to write on a moving surface, produces a toothed line. The contraction is not uniform, but is made up of alternate shortenings and lengthenings of the muscle. This constitutes '■'■incomplete tetanus." If the second stimulus follows the first so rapidly that the contraction period has not given place to relaxation, then the second con- traction will be superimposed on the first, the third on the second, and so on continuously and smoothly without any slight relaxations, and thi;s the lever will describe a smooth line, rising at first rapidly, then more slowly, till a maximum is reached, and being maintained at this till the series of stimuli causing the con- traction is removed, or until fatigue causes relaxation of the muscle. This is the condition of "complete tetanus" (Fig. 27, 3). The rate at which stimuli must follow one another in order to produce a tetanus depends on a large number of factors. Anything which increases the duration of a single contrac- tion renders a smaller number of stimuli per second sufficient to produce a tetanus, and thus all the various factors modifying a single muscular contraction, modify the number of stimuli necessary to produce a tetanus. D'Arsonval has shown that an alternating current with very frequent interruptions of about 1,000,000 per second causes no con- traction. Every voluntary contraction of any group of the muscles is probably of the nature of a tetanus; and the question thus arises. At what rate do the stimuli which cause such a tetanus pass from the spinal cord to the muscles 1 In a tracing of a continued voluntary con- traction, indications of about ten variations per second are to be seen, while the rate of the clonic tremor of the leg which may be produced during fatigi;e by supporting the weight of the leg on the toes is about ten, backward and forward movement, per second, and in various morbid miiscular spasms the rate is about the same. All this would seem to indicate that the number of stimiili which pass to human muscle from the central nervous system is probably about ten per second. It has, however, been found that passing a strong galvanic current into a muscle may lead to rhythmic contraction, and hence it is possible that the contractions of muscle induced by the central nervous system may be caused by a continued discharge from the nerve centres. III. Mode of Actio7i of Muscles.—The skeletal muscles act to produce movements of the body from place to place, or movements of one part of the body on another. This they do Dy pulling on the bony framework to cause definite movements of the various joints. The muscles are arranged in opposing sets in relationship to each joint — one causing movement in one direction, another in the opposite direction — and named according to their mode of action, flexors, extensors, ad' ductors, abductors, etc. But in the production of any particular movement—say flexion of the forearm at the elbow—not only are the muscles manifestly causing the movement in contraction but the opposing group, the extensors, are also in action to guide and direct the force and extent of the movement. This Co-operative Antagonism of groups of muscles is of very great importance, since it explains many of the results observed in paralysis. Thus, if the extensors of the hand be paralysed, as in lead palsy, it is found impossible to clench the hand although the flexors are intact. Again if part of the brain which causes flexion of the hand of the monkey be stimulated, and the nerve to the flexors divided, the co-operative action of the extensors brings about an exten sion of the hand. In many movements some Fig. 28.—The three types of level illustrated by the movements at the ankle joint. of the antagonistic muscles are relaxed under the action of their nerves. The muscles round the various joints act on the bones, arranged as a series of levers, of the three classes (Fig. 28). 1st Class. — Fulcrum between power and weight. In the ankle this is seen when, by a contraction of the gastrocnemius, we push upon some object with the toes. 2nd Class.—Weight between fulcrum and power. In rising on the toes the base of the metatarsals is the fulcrum, the weight comes at the ankle, and the power on the os calcis. 3rd Class. — Power between fulcrum and weight. In raising a weight placed on the dorsal aspect of the toes by the contraction of the extensors of the foot, we have the weight at the toes, the power at the tarsus, and the fulcrum at the ankle. In the other joints, actions involving the principle of each of these levers may be found. IV. Work of Muscle.—As a result of the changes in shape, muscle performs its great function of doing mechanical work; and the most important question which has to be con- sidered in regard to muscle, as in regard to other machines, is the amount of work it can do. Since the work done depends upon the weight