363 PAREGORIC each fluid ounce ; Scotch jmreyoric is the Tinc- tura O'pii Ammoniata of the B.P., and contains 5 grains of opium in the fluid ounce ; in America, the Tinctura Opii Camphcyrata of the U.S. P. is known as paregoric or paregoric elixir. See Opium ; Toxicology {Opium and Morphine). Pareirae Radix.—The root of Chondo- dendron tomentosutn, a plant of Peru and Brazil. Its chief constituent is an alkaloid called buxine, identical with berberine. Preparation—Extrac- tum Pareirae Liquidum. Dose—1-2 5. It is used in chronic inflammatory conditions of the genito-urinary tract, such as pyelitis, cystitis, urethritis, etc. Parencepiialon.—The cerebellum (q.V.). Parenchymatous.—Relating to the parenchyma, i.e. the typical or essential part of an organ ; e.g. parenchymatoiis nephritis, paren- chymato^is ovaritis, etc. See Inflammation {Nomenclature, Kinds of Inflammation, The Site); Nephritis {Mo7-bid Anatomy, Acute Nephritis); Ovaries, Diseases of {Inflammation, Oophoritis). Parepididymis.—Theorgan of Giraldes or paradidymis of Waldeyer; a relic of the urinary part of the mesonephros. P a r e p i t h y m i a.—Depraved longings (Gr. irapd, beyond, irelOiD, I persuade). ParerethisiS.—Abnormal excitement or irritation of a part (Gr. irapa, beyond, ipeOi^w, I provoke). Paresis.—Incomplete paralysis, or a slight loss of muscular power. See Paralysis ; Senile Insanity {Neuroses of Senility, Paresis). Pareunia.—Sexual connection or coitus. See Gynaecology, Diagnosis in. Parietal.—Relating to a wall (Lat. paries, a wall), and especially to the bones which cover the lateral aspects of the brain {parietal bones). See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Vertex Positions); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Mechanism in Contracted Pelvis, Parietal Pre- sentation). ParietO-.—in compound words parieto- signifies (usually) relating to the parietal bones of the skull, or the parietal lobes of the brain; e.g. parieto-occipital, parieto-sphenoid, parieto- squamosal, parieto-tempoml, etc. Pariilin.—A crystalline substance (C^oH-o Ojg) obtained from sarsaparilla-root. Parinaud's Conjunctivitis.— A tj'pe of conjunctivitis due to infection from animals; it is a severe form. Parinaud's Ophthaimopiegria. —An ophthalmoplegia of peripheral origin con- sisting in paralysis of the external rectus of one side, and spasm of the internal rectus of the other side. Paris' Disease.—Acrodynia, a disease allied to pellagra {<i.v.). Paris Green.—A preparation containing arsenic; it is aceto-arsenite of copper. ParistlimiC.—Relating to the tonsils (Gr. ■Ko.pLd&fi.iov, tonsil), e.g. paristhmitis, inflam- mation of the tonsils. Parity.—The condition of a woman as to childbirth; e.g. a woman who has borne no children is called nuUiparous, one who has had several children is multiparous, etc. Parkinson's Disease. — Paralysis agitans. See Paralysis ( With Tremor). ParodontitiS. — Inflammation of the tissue surrounding a tooth. See Teeth {Alveolar Abscess). Pa.roenia.—An act committed while under the influence of alcohol (Gr. Trapd, beside, and oivos, wine). Paroniria.—Sleep disturbed by dreams (Gr. 6v€Lpos, a dream), especially disagreeable ones. Paronycilia.—Whitlow. See Syphilis {Secojidary Affections of Nails). ParOOpilOron.—The hilum of the ovary, containing relics of the mesonephros. ParopllObia. — Hydrophobia or rabies {q.V.). ParopsiS.—Hallucination or illusion of vision ; literally, false seeing (Gr. -n-apd, beside or beyond, oi//is, sight). Parosmia.—A perverted sense of smell. See Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Neuroses of Olfac- tion, Pai-osmia); see also Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms). Parotic.—Related to the neighbourhood of the ear. Parotid Gland, Disorders of. Introduction ...... 364 Anatomy ...... 364 Injuries of the Gland .... 365 Injuries to Stensen's Duct. . .365 Inflammatory Conditions . . . 365 Chronic Inflammation . . 365 Secondary Inflammation . . . 365 Siqjpiiration ..... 366 Treatment ..... 366 Tumours . . . . .366 Innocent ...... 367 Malignant ..... 367 Fistula 368