449 PHARMACOLOGY In man, poisonous symptoms have followed the application of bismuth to raw surfaces. These chiefly affect the mouth, and consist in saliva- tion, stomatitis, and even gangrene. The fojtor of the breath which may be observed after taking ordinary doses of bismuth is due to tellurium, an impurity often present. Since the expedient has been resorted to of giving large doses of bismuth subnitrate for the purpose of obtaining skiagrams of the viscera, one or two cases of fatal poisoning have been reported. All the patients have been infants, and the toxic effects have been due to the nitrate, not to the metallic ion. On post- mortem, methgemoglobinsemia has been found, and nitrites have been detected in the blood and tissue juices. The toxic action is probably due to the conversion of part of the nitrate into nitrite through the agency of the intestinal bacteria. Alum, the double sulphate of potassium and aluminium, acts purely as an astringent, and in large doses as an emetic. (13*) Metallic Ferments.—When an electric current is passed through pure water between metallic electrodes, minute quantities of the metals composing the electrodes are dissolved. The solutions conform to the tests for colloidal solutions. The metals exist in them in a state of minute subdivision, and the particles possess a vibrating movement. Such solutions are said to possess catalytic properties, hence they have been called " Metallic Ferments." Their action depends on their physical constitution, not on any special property of the metal used ;—gold, silver, platinum, etc. may be employed. Robin has tested the therapeutic possibilities of these colloidal metallic solutions, and asserts that they profoundly influence metabolism when in- jected subcutaneously. They are said to (1) reduce the temperature; (2) raise the arterial tension ; (3) increase the output of urea, uric acid, and urinary indoxyl; (4) cause leucocytosis; (5) decrease the consumption of oxygen without diminishing the carbonic acid exhaled ; and (6) increase the coefficient of nitrogenous utilisation. Robin believes that the solutions act in virtue of the extreme subdivision and separation of the metallic particles ; he compares the effects to the radiant properties of gases in a vacuum tube, in which a similar wide separation of atoms prevails. Metallic ferments have been used in pneu- monia, etc. : it is said, with benefit. Further investigation of the whole subject is required before any definite conclusion can be arrived at. II. Organic Substances A.—Drugs the Action of which is mainly Local (1) Vegetable Bitters and Astringents. — The chief bitters are Gentian, Quassia, Calumba, Chiretta, and Taraxacum. The usefulness of VOL. VII these is probably due to their bitter taste reflexly stimulating gastric secretion in the manner that Pawlow has shown the odour and taste of food to act. Experimental observations on the action of bitters have to a great extent proved nega- tive or contradictory. Certain nervous symp- toms are produced in animals by large doses, but these are never seen in man. Certain bitters cause a slight leucocytosis. In addition to their special activities, quinine and strychnine act as simple bitters. Astringents owe their properties to tannin bodies, tannic acid being readily convertible into gallic acid. Tiieir action is due to their power of precipitating albumin When applied to mucous membranes they cause a sensation of constriction from coagulation of the superficial layers of the epithelium ; in the stomach they interfere with proteid digestion, and may cause vomiting from gastric irritation. In the intestine they tend to cause constipation, the layer of co- agulated epithelium lessening the irritability of the wall of the bowel. In weak solutions tannic acid causes local vaso-constriction and coagulates the blood. Most of the tannic acid swallowed is converted in the intestine into gallic acid, and after absorption the two are found in the tissues only as tannates and gallates, which are almost devoid of astringency. It is therefore improb- able that these bodies have any action farther than their local one. Other astringents of this category are Kino, Catechu, Hamamelis, Hsematoxylin, and Galls. (2) Vegetable Purgatives.— Such terms as aperient, hydragogue, cathartic, drastic, etc., are sometimes used to describe different purgatives, but the actions comprehended by the words are so largely a matter of dosage and individual proclivity as to deprive them of any definitive value. Cushny's classification into purgative oils, purgatives of the anthracene series, and the colocynth group will be followed here. Action of Vegetable Purgatives.—In small doses these intensify the action of the bowels, pro- ducing stools departing little from the normal; in larger doses the motions are numerous, watery, and copious, and are attended by pain and colic ; while in still larger doses the symptoms are those of enteritis. The origin of the fluidity of the stools produced by a purgative has been much discussed, but is probably largely a question of dosage. When moderate quantities of aperients are administered the normal fluid contents of the small intestine are hurried on into the lower bowel, while if the dose be so large as to produce congestion of the mucosa there is exudation into the bowels as well. Aperients probably act only when they come into direct contact with the bowel. In the case of such as produce catharsis when injected subcutaneously, the likelihood is that they do so by being excreted into the intestine. Although purgatives have little or no cholagogue effect, yet in many instances the 29