246 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF 6. Injury to the Pancreas . . .260 7. Syphilis op the Pancreas . . 261 8. Tubercle of the Pancreas . . 261 See also Abdomen, Injuries of [Lesions of the Pancreas); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Pancreas) ; Ascites {Ca^i,satio7i, Diagnosis); Diabetes Mellitus {Pancreatic Diabetes); Glycosuria {Associated with Various Diseases); Hydatid Disease {Echinococci of Paricreas); Jaundice {Due to Different Causes); Liver, Diseases of {Acquired Deformities, Diagnosis); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Ali- mentary System); Mumps {Complications, Acute Pancreatitis); Ovaries, Diseases of {Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumour); Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis, General {Diagnosis, Acute Pancreatitis); Post-mortem Methods {Examination of the Body Cavities, Abdomen). Though diseases of the pancreas have been looked on as uncommon, it is only because of the position of the organ deeply at the back of the abdomen, and, therefore, of the difficulty in making a physical examination of it during life, unless considerably enlarged, that it has not received more attention clinically; and this want of attention has, unfortunately, until quite recently, also applied to the post-mortem room. A record of all the cases of pancreatic disease noticed in the post-mortem room of Guy's Hospital during fourteen years, from 1884 to 1897, shows that out of 6708 autopsies the pancreas was found diseased or injured in 142 ; that is, out of all cases dying in a large general hospital, 2 per cent at least had disease of the pancreas. This goes to prove the view expressed at the International Medical Congress held in Paris, that pancreatic diseases are far from being uncommon; and, fortunately, this re- cognition of the importance of the subject is likely to have more than a mere pathological interest; for although surgery can hold out little probability of being able to materially beneiit malignant disease, much can be done for the cure of both cystic and inflammatory affections. Anatomical Considerations.—The pancreas is a compound racemose gland, retroperitoneal in position, it being placed in front of the first lumbar vertebra with the head embraced by the concavity of the duodenal curve, and the tail reaching as far as the hihim of the spleen. It is of irregular shape, consisting of a body, head, and tail, the junction between the head and body being somewhat constricted, so as to form a neck. Between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum are the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries. The superior mesenteric artery and vein emerge from beneath the body of the pancreas and then pass over the transverse portion of the duodenum. There is sometimes a prolongation of the pancreas upwards from the head; this is called the lesser pancreas. The pancreas weighs about 3 ounces, and on section is of a pinkish-cream colour. It has in front of it the mesocolon and stomach, and it lies upon the aorta, vena cava, left crus of the diaphragm, and left supra- renal capsule. Its own capsule is of delicate areolar tissue, and sends processes between the lobules of the gland. The pancreatic duct (D. of Wirsung) begins near the tail and passes towards the right rather nearer the lower and posterior than the upper and anterior borders of the gland. It receives in its course branches from the different lobules which enter it at right angles. It is a thin white tube, which at its termination curves downwards in rela- tion with the common bile-duct to enter the descending portion of the duodenum into which it opens. When there is a lesser pancreas its duct joins the proper pancreatic duct before its termination. A small duct (D. of Santorini), collecting the secretion from the upper portion of the head of the gland and communicating irregularly with the duct of Wirsung, opens separately and directly into the duodenum about an inch and a half above the entrance of the ordinary duct. In 62 per cent of cases the common bile-duct passes through the head of the pancreas, while in 38 per cent it only grooves the back of the gland. This anatomical fact has an important bearing on the presence or absence of jaundice during an attack of in- terstitial pancreatitis. The pancreas receives its blood-supply from the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries on the right, and the pancreatica magna and pancreaticse parvse branches of the splenic artery on the left. The veins empty into the splenic and superior mesenteric. The lymphatic vessels pass to the lumbar lymphatic glands. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. Physiological Considerations.—The pan- creatic fluid contains four ferments : (1) A milk- curdling ferment; (2) steapsin, a ferment which serves to emulsify and split up fat into the fatty acids and glycerine ; (3) amylopsin, which serves to convert starchy matters into dextrine and grape sugar; and (4) trypsin, which con- verts albuminous and gelatinous substances into peptones. But besides secreting pancreatic fluid, the pancreas has an internal secretion formed by the islands of Langerhaus, necessary for the transformation of carbohydrates; and in the absence of this pancreatic extract from atrophy or other destructive disease of the pancreas, diabetes results. Pathological Considerations.—When it is borne in mind that the pancreas is a racemose gland with its various channels opening into a duct, which opens along with the common bile-duct into the second part of the duodenum, a channel usually containing septic organisms, and frequently liable to catarrh and other disorders, it is not surprising that inflanunation should frequently occur in it. Just as in the