NEUEASTHENIA 35 Neurasthenic); Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Hyperoemia of Brain, Diagnosis); Brain, Surgery of {Concussion, Effects); Elec- tricity {Electric Bath in Neurasthenia) ; Gly- cosuria {In Neurasthenia); Hydropathy {For Neurasthenia); Hypnotism {Treatment of Neuras- thenia) ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etio- logical Varieties); Kidney, Surgical Affections {Floating Kidney, Symptoms); Pulse {Frequency in Neurasthenia); Spermatorrh(EA {Effects); Syphilis {Parasyphilis); Teeth {Saliva in Caries in Neurasthenia) ; Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Reasons for sending Patients Abroad).— Neurasthenia means debility of the nerves. It has been described under the names, " General debility," " Spinal irritation," " L'etat nervevix," "The vapours," "Nervous exhaustion," etc. We owe to Beard of New York the best modern description of the condition, and the name Neurasthenia, which is convenient and accurate, as it directs attention specially to the true source of the symptoms. What precisely is the significance of the phrase "nervous debility"? In neurasthenia, as in all other conditions of nervous breakdown, we have two etiological factors, diminished resistance (bad heredity) and increased strain (acquired during the life of the organism). This holds as clearly for neur- asthenia, in which we must believe that the lower nervous layers are affected, as it does for insanity, where the pathological process affects the highest layers. In both cases the condition shows itself by altered conduct and deranged mentation, using these terms in their broadest sense. We will begin by discussing the problem of acquired neurasthenia due to strain, which strain may be direct or indirect. The etiology is less complex in cases where a direct physical cause can be traced, many of which cases are called traumatic. In these we have a condition comparable to cases of insanity due to direct stress—a blow on the head, a sunstroke, the delirium of fever. No nervous system is so constituted as to be able to bear unlimited direct stress. Every beam has a breaking weight. One person may become neurasthenic as the effect of an upturn from a pony cart; another only as the result of a railway smash or shipwreck, accompanied or not by bodily injury and great privation. All gradations are included under the term traumatic neurasthenia. The problem of ner- vous debility is there presented in its least complex clinical form. The debility is due in all these cases directly to an injury or to the fear of an injury. For it is certain that what we call traumatic neurasthenia may arise as the result of fright without any bodily or recognisable injury having being received. It is not the broken arm or leg resulting from a railway collision, or even the jar and shaking experienced, that causes the victim to be a nervous wreck for months or years afterwards, but the general disturbance to the nutrition of his nerves caused by the accident itself, apart from his special personal share in its effect. It is quite possible to be much and for long the worse for a railway accident in spite of coming out of it apparently uninjured. As examples of this the following cases may be cited :—1. A gentleman was travelling in an express train from Aberdeen to London when the train went off the line. The carriage was hurled from side to side of the line but not upset. The traveller steadied himself with feet and hands as much as he could, received no blow, and thought he was perfectly calm and collected all the time. By good fortune the couplings broke and the carriage came to a standstill. The traveller descended, and wondered to see his fellow- passengers crying and embracing each other in a hysterical manner. The cigar which he had kept in his mouth was still alight, and he finished it. Four hours of a summer night were passed in a turnip-field till the relief train carried him on to York and London. To his surprise he found himself in a state of constant and increasing nervous distress during the journey, and for months afterwards he could not endure an express train; he had to go by the slowest possible, and even these tried him more than he liked to admit. It was at least a year before the effect of the fright left him. 2. An elderly gentleman, Mr. B., and his wife were travelling in a train which met with a serious accident. Many passengers were injured and some killed. Presently the survivors were sent to a hotel, and Mr. and Mrs. B. were assigned a room. The good couple knelt down and thanked God for coming uninjured out of such a terrible experience. Then they went to bed and slept fairly well. Next morning Mr. B. being ready first, said he would go down and order breakfast. A few minutes later his wife found him sitting at the top of the stairs, weeping because he had not courage to go down them. The dread of open spaces, or "agoraphobia," of which he had almost certainly never heard, had been suddenly developed by the accident. Can we arrive at any explanation of a marked condition of nervous weakness starting in this way, and can we by studying traumatic neurasthenia get any insight into the nature of the same condition when it is inherited or the result of non - traumatic influences 1 Accepting the view that neurasthenia is a prolonged condition of over-fatigue, can it be explained ? It is admitted that every action is performed by an expenditure of nerve force, that not only intellectual and volitional actions are impossible apart from the nervous system, but that even those actions which are concerned with " the brooding and silent life" of the organs of secretion, excretion, of circulation, and of nutrition, all come under the same category ;