INFLAMMATION 87 NOSE—CHRONIC Pathological Anatomy. — Microscopical ex- amination shows that there is first a round- celled infiltration of the mucous membrane, the round cells having a tendency to granular and fatty degeneration. Similar degenerative changes are found in the acinous and in Bow- man's glands. On the margins of the bones are numerous Howship's lacunse containing osteoclasts. The epithelium is generally con- verted into the cubical or pavement variety, of which the superficial layers may become horny. In later stages the cell infiltration gives place to a new formation of connective tissue, leading to shrinking of the mucous membrane and marked disparition of the glands and vessels (Zarniko).^ E. Frankel describes endarteritis obliterans, and Krause connective tissue thickening of the adventitia. The true nature of this disease has been the subject of innumerable observations and theories. As regards the fostor, as already noticed this arises only from the secretion, especially when it has lain for some time and hardened, for the fresh secretion has scarcely any odour. The smell is, according to some authors, simply the result of decomposition of the catarrhal secre- tion which stagnates in the nasal cavities on account of their abnormal width (Zaufal). Clinical observation, as well as physiological experiment, speak against this. B. Frankel considers that suppuration of the atrophic mucosa is a necessary preliminary, but that for the production of the foetor a ferment is required. Krause attributes importance to the alteration in the secretion by the presence of fat granules produced by the destruction of gland epithelium and of infiltration cells. These granules, mixed with the cornified epidermis, imdergo rapid decomposition and give rise to the foetor; but, on the other hand, this condition is not always present. E. Frankel thinks that the absence of glands, especially Bowman's, enables the bacteria of decomposition to flourish. Volkmann and Schuchardt also attribute the foetor to an anomaly of secretion which consists in the transformation of the normal cylindrical epithelium into a horny pavement epithelium ; this decomposes and pro- duces the smell in the same manner as occurs in plantar and axillary sweating, cholestea- toma, and intertrigo mammarum. This change is said to be always present in ozsena, but absent in non-foetid atrophic rhinitis (Seifert). A special organism is, according to these authors, not required. On the other hand, E. Frankel (1882) and Loewenberg (1885) discovered the bacillus mucosus and declared it to be the cause of the foetor. Hajek found bacilli re- sembling Friedlander's pneumo-bacilli. The atrophy was considered by Zaufal to be a congenital defect, but this has been contro- verted by Zuckerkandl, who, in the examination 1 Die Krankheiten der Nase, p. 189 (Berlin, 1894). of 252 young skulls, never found atrophy of the turbinated bones. Hopmann, however, up- holds Zaufal's theory, and supports it by observations on the antero-posterior shortness of the septum in ozccna, which, in his opinion, cannot be owing to shrinking but must be due to deficient growth. Zarniko and Bayer regard the disease as a tropho-neurosis of the nasal mucosa and the bony framework, from which the characteristic changes, metaplasia of the epithelium with cornification, superficial in- flammation with formation of crusts, occvir, and insist on the presence of a specific bacillus causing the foetor. The majority of authors, however, appear to hold the opinion that the atrophy is the result of a chronic inflammatory suppurative process, and assume that the atrophy is preceded by hypertrophy. In regard to the origin of the secretion, Michel first drew attention to the frequent implication of the accessory sinuses in ozsena, and maintained that the secretion always originated in one of these cavities. This has been controverted by—(1) the actual observa- tion of the formation of secretion under the eye of the observer (Gottstein), and (2) by the post- mortem examination of cases of ozasna, in which the accessory sinuses were found healthy. These observations are not accepted by Griinwald, who insists on the great i-arity of general suppuration of the nasal mucous mem- brane in adults, and explains the symptoms of ozsena by the presence of localised suppurations. He does not, however, limit these to the accessory sinuses, but also locates them in narrow meatuses and even in the pharyngeal and faucal tonsils. He therefore regards ozsena as a symptom of different localised suppurations. Stork, on the other hand, regards ozsena as an infective disease, gonorrha^a or congenital syphilis, the latter occurring when the father is no longer suffering from active syphilis. Finally, Striibing and Abel have, within the last few years, made extensive bacteriological investigations on the bacillus mucosus, which they have distinguished from Friedlander's pneumo-bacillus. They claim to have found it constantly present in the secretion of genuine ozsena, and, per contra, always absent in the normal nose and in all other diseases. They also found it disappear as a case was cured, and maintain that it is inoculable from nose to nose, and from nose to pharynx and larynx. They consider the foetor as an inconstant symptom and the atrophy as not essential, the essential feature being the formation of a glairy, tenacious muco-purulent secretion. According to these authors, "ozsena is a peculiar inflammatory process with the formation of crusts, com- mencing usually in the nose, more rarely in the nasopharynx, caused by the presence of a bacillus. Catarrhal appearances then develop, at first with hypertrophy, afterwards with