HYGIENE 133 NURSERY shape of jam or marmalade had best be left till tea-time. Not much should be taken at eleven o'clock lunch : a biscuit, or a cup of milk is quite enough, and many children do best without. At dinner fresh fish, fowl, or flesh, with cooked vegetables, form the chief part of the meal; the potatoes should be mashed and sieved, and the green vegetables thoroughly cooked; soups and broth may be given for a change. The second course may consist of light puddings and cooked fruit. Rice, sago, tapioca, with stewed apples, pears, prunes, or jellies, are good. All forms of pastry, suet puddings, "trifle," or jam tarts, are bad. Raw fruits, as apples, pears, figs, bananas, should certainly not be given to children of weak digestion; orange and grape juice or pulp are much better. A plain tea is all that is re- quired ; eggs, fish, sardines, etc., are unnecessary and of doubtful utility at this meal. Bread and butter, jam, or marmalade, a sponge-cake, may be allowed, with milk and water to drink. Avoid rich cakes and jam puffs, tea-cakes or hot buttered toast. For supper, a cup of cocoa is light and nourishing. Great stress must be laid on accustoming children to eat slowly and masticate their food ; while taking care that their teeth are seen to, and their food, especially butcher's meat, is tender and cut up finely. It cannot be urged too strongly that eating between meals is physiologically wrong; the stomach requires rest, and is certain to get out of order if too continuously worked. Encourage tidy habits at meal times and simplicity of living, while providing a suitable - variety of foods. Encourage a child to clear up its plate and finish its milk, but do not force a child to take food against its will: a little starvation can do no possible harm. Nurse's Contracture. See Tetany {History). Nursing'. See Puerperium, Physiology; Lactation ; Milk ; Infant-Feeding ; etc. Nursing, Training for. See also MiDWiVES.—The occupation of nursing, that is, women fully equipped in the art of caring for the sick, ought now to be raised to the dignity of a profession, and those who have obtained the dis- tinction should, by some adequate process of re- gistration, be protected from those who have had an incomplete training. " The Royal Institution of Registered Nurses" is a step in the right direction, but is not sufficiently comprehensive. Before 1840 the only available assistance obtainable outside the members of the family circle in cases of illness was the untrained services of a respectable woman who had pro- bably no vocation and certainly no training. The pure " Gamp" type immortalised by Dickens is, fortunately, now almost a matter of history. The first attempt at training nurses was the establishment, in the middle of last century, of an Association of Nursing Sisters by Mrs. Fry, the celebrated Quakeress. The object was to obtain a body of respectable women with a few months' experience in an hospital, who would attend sick people in their homes. She hoped to secure for them fair remuneration for their work, and a small pension after thirty years' service. Miss Night- ingale's experiences in the Crimean War gave an impetus to the work by showing the need for nurses. Shortly after this a school of nursing was instituted at St. Thomas's Hospital, London. Most of the hospitals followed this example and started schools, with the object of training nurses and thus affording the public the benefit of their services either in private, district, or hospital work. At the present time so great has been the increase in nursing that almost everyone in a position to pay from 30s. to £>2 : 2s. weekly can be nursed by a woman claiming to be fully trained. However, on this point of training the greatest diversity of opinion prevails. For example, any woman can call herself a fully-trained midwife or monthly nurse who has had a brief course of three months' instruction in practical midwifery, and has received a diploma from the London Obstetrical Society. On the other hand, a woman who has had a three years' course of instruction in a general hospital, and thereby qualified as a fully-trained nurse, and has then devoted three or more months to obstetric work, and obtained a certificate, does not I'ank any higher than the one just referred to. This is surely anomalous. The same may be said of masseurs : certificates—so called—can be gained by anyone choosing to attend a very short course of lectures and pay a small fee. On the other hand, a certified Swedish masseuse is on a different footing ; she will only have acquired a certificate after three to four years' training. Thus there is as yet no recognised accepted general standard of attainment for certified nurses. Until nurses can be placed on a proper footing, however well trained, and however efficient they be, they can never obtain either the position or pay to which the best are entitled until the medical profession and public have the means of diff'erentiating between good and bad by some other means than pleasant or painful experience. Before describing the various methods of training that are open to women desirous of becoming nurses, it is well to make it clear that to be a really good nurse one needs the best training available as well as a natural dis- position for the profession. Training alone will not transform an impossible nature into that which is required for a good nurse. Training.—It is much to be desired that we in this country should adopt some such system