(ENANTHIC ACID 159 wine (Gr. oivrj, vine, and avOy], a blossom); oetmn- thylic acid is an oil having the smell of cod-fish, and forming cenanthylates. Oertel's IViethod. —A method of treating obesity, circulatory troubles, and emphysema by diminishing the amount of fluid taken, by regulating the diet {e.g. the fat), by mountain-climbing, and by systematic gymnastics. See Obesity (Treatment). Oesel. See Balneology (Russia, Livonia). CEsophageal.— Belonging to the oesophagus; e.c/. oesophageal haemorrhage (see H^MATEMESis, OEsophageal Hcemorrhage), or oesophageal stricture (see Typhoid Fever, Com- plicatio7is, (Esophageal Ulceration). Ssophag'ectomy.—Resection of the oesophagus. CEsophagism US. —Spasmodic dys- phagia or difficulty in swallowing, often due to gouty oesophagitis. See Oesophagus (Spasm or (Esophagismus). Ssophag^itiS. — Inflammation of the oesophagus. See (Esophagus (Injlammatio7i); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy (Dis- eases of the (Esophagus); HyEMATEMESis (Condi- tions that may simulate it). ^Esophag'O-. — In compound words oesophago- means relating or belonging to the oesophagus ; e.g. oesophago-malacia (post-mortem softening of the gullet), oesophago-mycosis (oesophageal disease due to fungi), etc. ^EsophagfOCele.—An abnormal dilata- tion of the oesophagus forming a diverticulum ; oesophago-ectasis. (£sophag:o - Enterostomy. — The operation of suturing the oesophagus to the duodenum as carried out in cases of complete removal of the stomach. See Stomach, Surgical (Operations, Complete Extirpation). CEsophag^OptOSiS. — Prolapse of the oesophagus. CEsophagrOSCOpy. —Examination of the oesophagus by a lamp or mirror, a some- what difficult procedure. See CEsophagus, In- juries AND Diseases (Examination). (Esophag:OStenOSiS. — Constriction of the oesophagus. CEsophagrOStomy. — The formation (by operation) of an artificial opening into the oesophagus, e.g. for the removal of a foreign body, or for malignant disease. See (Esophagus, Diseases of. CEsophag^Otomy. — The operation of opening into the oesophagus. See (Esophagus, Injuries and Diseases of (Operative Procedures). CEsophag^us, Injuries and Dis- eases of. Anatomy . . . . .159 Examination of .... . 160 Injuries ...... 160 Inflammation . . . . .161 Foreign Bodies . . . . .161 Tumours 162 Operative Treatment . . .163 Spasm . . . . .165 Dilatation ... . . 165 Malformation . . . . .166 See also Bronchi, Bronchial Glands (Morbid Anatomy, Effects of Pressure on the (Esophagus) ; Electricity (Use in Stricture of the (Esophagus); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy (Con- genital Anonmlies and Diseases of the (Eso- phagus) ; H^matemesis (From (Esophagus); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease, (Esophageal Varices) ; Hys- teria (Disorders of Digestive Organs, Dys- phagia) ; Indigestion (Special Forms, in (Eso- phageal Diverticula); Intestines, Diseases op, Medical (Anatomical Considerations, Develop- ment of the (Esophagus) ; Liver, Diseases of (Cirrhosis, Symptotns, Hoematemesis); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Complications, Alimentary, (Esophageal Ulceration) ; Lungs, Abscess of (Cancer of (Esophagus) ; Mediastinum (Acute Mediastinitis, Perforation of (Esophagus); Pha- rynx, Examination of (Foreign Bodies, etc.). Injuries and Diseases of the (Esophagus ANATomcAL Considerations. — The oesophagus extends from the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, or the disc between the sixth and seventh, to the tenth or eleventh dorsal vertebra. The cricoid cartilage forms the landmark for the commencement of the tube. For practical purposes it is essential to know the distance of certain parts of the oesophagus from the incisor teeth, because it is by means of bougies passed through the mouth that the presence of ob- struction is usually ascertained. From the incisor teeth to the commencement of the (esophagus the distance is from 5 to 6 inches. The oesophagus itself is from 9 to 10 inches long, and may be divided into three portions. (a) The cervical portion, extending from the level of the cricoid cartilage to the upper border of the manubrium sterni, measuring 1^ to 2 in. (b) The thoracic portion, terminating at the aperture in the diaphragm, and measuring 7 in. (c) The abdominal portion, measuring about 1 inch ; thus, if the bougie stops at a distance of 6 to 8 inches from the teeth the obstruction is at the commencement of the oesophagus, and if it stops at 14 to 15 inches the obstruction is at the cardiac end. The direction of the oesophagus in the antero- posterior plane does not follow the line of the vertebral column in its whole extent. As far