4 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF mere librous cords, which gradvially atrophy, but which remain as distinct structures for an indelinite period; the cut end of this cord is generally thin and tapering, or it may occasion- ally present a slight bulb. At the cut surface of the proximal portion of the fibre, on the other hand, we have active changes: the con- nective tissue becomes inflamed, and forms an oval bulb or swelling; in a few days the axis cylinders commence to grow into this swelling and to ramify throughout the cicatrix, acquiring a covering of myelin and primitive sheath. Hence there results a large end-bulb, more or less closely adherent to the general wound scar, and consisting of newly-formed nerve-tissue chaotically arranged in a fibrous cicatrix; the attempt at repair has proved abortive from the want of a channel of direction. After a very long period the central ends undergo gradual atrophy, and all of these conditions are accom- panied with atrophic changes in the correlated areas of the central nervous system. Lastly, in the case of amputations the nerves of the stump behave similarly to the central ends of divided nerves, the ehd-bulbs when much enlarged—as they are apt to be in septic cases—forming the so-called " amputation neuromata." Tearing of important nerves is not very common, except in the case of the brachial plexus (q-v ), and of traumatic avulsion of limbs. The results produced are similar to those of complete section with separation of the divided ends. Partial section and punctured wounds of nerves are most commonly met with in the region of the wrist. The results are similar to those of complete section with apposition of the cut surfaces, but do not involve the whole of the functions of the damaged trunk. Punctured wounds appear to be peculiarly liable to the development of a continued neuritis. Contusions of nerves result from various in- j uries of civil life, and are also commonly produced by bullet wounds, which thrust aside nerve-trunks without readily perforating them. Severe contu- sions cause much hfemorrhage into the trunks, with disorganisation of the nerve-fibres, and thus produce results similar to those of section with separation of the ends; but every grade of injury is met with from this, the most severe form, to the mere tingling which results from rolling beneath the finger such exposed trunks as the idnar or the lingual. The symptoms of injuries of nerves are similar in all the above cases, and may be considered collectively. They are variously combined in accordance with the physiological functions of the affected trunk. Paralysis of the atrophic type is developed immediately, and is accompanied by wasting and fatty degeneration of the affected muscles, which attains its height in about three or four months after the injury. The affected muscles usually cease to react to the faradic current within three or four days, and they then quickly present the galvanic reaction of degeneration. After a few weeks all electrical contractility is lost. Should recovery ensue, voluntary contractility often precedes the capacity for electrical stimulation. Sensation of all kinds is abolished, but is often partially restored by the agency of col- lateral branches. The margins of anfesthesia are thus rarely quite sharply defined. Pain and hypersesthesia are common is cases of partial injury. Pain in the cicatrix of a cut nerve is common, and is often referred subjectively to the terminal distribution of the divided trunk. During recovery the sense of touch usually returns before those of pain and temperature, whilst it is a general rule that in cases in which the functions of the nerve are not totally abolished sensation is less injured than is motor power. Vaso-motor changes are manifested by altera- tions in temperature and in colour. The temperature changes are somewhat variable, but in the majority of cases there is for a few days a rise of two or three degrees, followed later by a fall which may amount to eight or ten degrees (F.), and which may last indefinitely. Redness and pallor correspond respectively to rise and fall in temperature. There is also a marked tendency to sudden variations in the vascularity of the affected parts under the influence of slight external causes, and thus even light rubbing of the anaesthetic areas may cause marked suftusion with blood. The various changes met with appear to be most readily explicable on the theory that the arteries have a local vaso-motor mechanism which, when cut oft' from the spinal cord, at first acts imperfectly and allows of dilatation ; that after a few days this mechanism acts with excess of energy and produces local ansemia, but that such local control is unstable and is liable to give way under the influence of slight irritations and to again permit of dilatation of the arteries {cf. art. " Inflammation," " Hypersemia "). Secretory phenomena are met with in the skin, and in special glands such as those of the mouth and eye. The skin may be abnormally dry or moist, and the perspiration is not rarely of a peculiarly fojtid odour. The so-called trophic changes involve mainly the skin and its appendages, the synovial mem- branes, and the muscles. The skin is generally peculiarly smooth, "glossy," thin, and delicate. Its papillae are small and its epithelium atrophic. The hair becomes harsh and dry, and is readily shed. The nails are brittle, and tend to trans- verse or vertical cracking, or they may be coarse and thick with swelling of the matrix. The subcutaneous tissues are thin and atrophic. Eruptions of herpetic or eczematous type are common, and may be recurrent. Obstinate