155 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF Bilateral paralysis of both third nerves alone may be nuclear, and if so, the interior muscles may escape; it may arise from compression of the nerves at their point of emergence from the pons, it may be due to basal meningitis, or to pressure from distended blood-vessels at the base. Both external recti may be paralysed from pressure on the two sixth nerves as they lie near together at the posterior margin of the pons, by more diffused pressure produced by tumours in the middle fossa, or by increased intracranial tension, or from bilateral disease of the nuclei on the floor of the ventricle; for the long exposed course of the nerve along the base of the skull lays it open to involvement in any inflammatory process in the neighbourhood, to pressure from any intracranial cause, and to involvement in injuries. Progressive paralysis of all the muscles of one eye might be orbital, basal, or nuclear: if orbital, one would expect to find some other evidence of local tumour or inflammation; if it were basal or orbital, the optic nerve of the same eye could hardly long escape damage, while a progressive lesion damaging thus the nuclei might readily spread laterally, and, catching the fibres from the optic tract of the same side, produce hemianopsia, and might even cause hemiantesthesia ; a nuclear lesion might also cross to the nuclei of the opposite third nerve. It has been shown that hemiplegia has a curious relation with paralysis of the third nerve of the opposite side:—If the two con- ditions arise simultaneously, the probable cause is a pontine lesion ; if the third nerve paralysis precedes that of the limbs a nuclear lesion in the floor of the ventricle is the cause, while if the limbs are paralysed before the eye, a basal lesion has injured the peduncle and ex- tended its influence to the trunk of the third nerve. There is probably a cortical centre for eleva- tion of the (opposite) upper lid, situated close to the arm centre, a lesion of which, or of the fibres from it, will cause unilateral ptosis. Conjugate deviation is that condition in which the eyes are turned to one side, and are incap- able of being directed to the other. This is a pretty frequent accompaniment of hemiplegia, and may be either temporary or constant—most usually the former; it may be ^'caused either by paralysis of the muscles moving the eye to one side, or by irritation of the centres (or paths) for movement in the opposite. If the lesion causing this condition be in the hemispheres and of a paralytic character, then the patient " looks away from " his paralysed side ; if of an irritative nature, he looks towards his convulsed side; while if the lesion be pontine, the precise contrary is the case, since a lesion in (say) the right side of the pons may catch the tracts going to the left limbs, and at the same time the fibres running from the right sixth nucleus to the right external and left internal recti. Move- ments of both eyes to one side are initiated (under the volitional centres) from the sixth nucleus of the side towards which the movement is made, and apparently the sixth nucleus has a predominating influence over that portion of the opposite third nerve nucleus which innervates the internal rectus. This only holds good so far as lateral movements are concerned, for it must be kept clearly in mind that paralysis of movement to the right may be present, and on an attempt to move the left eye to the right side the left internal rectus fails to execute the slightest contraction, and yet the patient may exhibit no failure when asked to converge ; that is, the left internal rectus will contract readily along with the opposite internal rectus in a movement of convergence, and yet remain quite inactive on an attempt to look to the right side. An apparent conjugate deviation is sometimes to be noticed in hemianopsia, the patient having lost the visual stimulus to movements towards the blind side. A lesion in the pons does not necessarily affect the other internal rectus; it may, however, cause paralysis of the sixth nerve alone. In lesions of the sixth nucleus the facial nerve is apt also to suffer, the two nuclei being in very close apposition. Along with the aifections of the muscles must be reckoned one or two conditions very much less frequent than the paralysis of which we have been speaking. Of these, the first is paralysis of convergence. Just as the internal rectus may be paralysed quoad conj ugate lateral movements, and remain intact quoad con- vergence, as we have seen, so the two internal recti may be incapable of acting together in convergence, though acting freely along with the external rectus in lateral movements. This rare condition, which must have a nuclear origin, occurs under similar conditions to other nuclear lesions; it must on no account be con- fused with that inability to converge satis- factorily which one sees especially in high myopia, and which is known as insufficiency of convergence, and sometimes, but very in- correctly, as insufficiency of the internal recti. The second condition is the precisely opposite condition, which has been variously regarded as a paralysis of divergence and as a spasm of convergence. This is not the place to discuss an abstruse and controversial question, and it will be sufficient to say that perhaps until we have certain evidence of the normal existence of any function of divergence imder ordinary conditions it is safer to regard the lesion as a spasm of convergence, for as regards the existence of a function of convergence there can be no doubt. The condition is extremely rare. Paralysis of upward or of downward movement of the eyes is also met with ; the former is not infrequently associated with congenital ptosis, and may be either unilateral or bilateral: its