20 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS having a toxic effect on the peripheral nerves, whilst in arsenical beer it is associated with alcohol; and this probably explains the differ- ence of action. The amount of alcohol in four pints of beer (for example) would be about equivalent to that in eight ounces of brandy. The action of this quantity of alcohol, combined with that of a small dose of arsenic, might well explain the toxic effect on the peripheral nerves, though the same quantity of each alone may be insufficient to produce bad results. It appears to have been clearly proved that a very large number of cases of 2^eripheral neuritis in Manchester, during the epidemic of 1900, can be attribxUed to the increased toxic action of beer Giving to the ptresence of arsenic. In those cases in which very large quantities of beer have been taken, the amount of alcohol alone, and, in the more contaminated specimens, the amount of arsenic alone would be sufficient to account for the peripheral neuritis. Naturally the combination of the two would increase the toxic action of the beer. In the cases in which the quantity of beer consumed has not been great, probably the amount of arsenic present has sometimes been sufficient to produce neu- ritis, but in many cases, probably the quantity of arsenic taken has not exceeded what is often given for long periods medicinally without any neuritis being produced; but the combination of arsenic with alcohol has apparently caused the toxic action of the beer in such moderate quantities. The importance of combined toxic action has been already recognised, with reference to alco- holic and other metallic or organic poisons, by Professor Oppenheim in 1891, and by Professor Remak. They have pointed out that a small dose of a poison, which we cannot regard as toxic, is able to produce multiple neuritis when the individual is also under the influence of a second poison. Sir William Gower, Dr. Buzzard, Sir Lauder Brunton, and Dr. Luff have attached much importance to the combined toxic action in the Manchester epidemic {see discvission at the Medico-Chirurgical Society of London, January 8, and February 12, 1901). Lead Paralysis.—This form of neuritis affects usually the arms only, and the symptoms are mainly motor. It is produced by lead poisoning in its various forms, but chiefly by chronic poisoning. It may be due to the presence of a minute quantity of lead in the drinking water. It occurs in painters, plumbers, type-setters, file-makers, potters, etc., who use lead or its salts in their work. It may be produced by the use of hair-dyes, etc. containing lead ; or it may be due to lead-glaze of earthenware vessels. Lead paralysis is often preceded by other symptoms of plumbism, such as colic and con- stipation ; very rarely by pain in the muscles and joints ; occasionally by antemia or cachexia. Sometimes lead paralysis is the first indication of poisoning. Not infrequently the patient also pi'esents signs of arterio-sclerosis or granular kidney, or he may suffer from attacks of gout. In pregnant women abortion occurs. In lead paralysis a blue line is usually present on the gums, close to and between the teeth ; it may be absent, however, if the teeth are kept very clean. Lead paralysis usually affects both arms ; one a little before the other, very rarely one only. The onset of the paralysis is somewhat gradual. In the common form of the disease the extensor communis digitorum is the muscle first affected. This causes dropping of the third and fourth fingers, and the patient is unable to extend them ; whilst the index and little fingers can be extended since they possess additional ex- tensor tendons—those of the extensor indicis and the extensor minimi digiti respectively. Soon these muscles are also paralysed and all the fingers are dropped. If the extensors of the wrist are not affected, then the hand can be extended at the wrist when the fingers are flexed. But often the extensors of the wrist become paralysed also, and then both the fingers and wrist are completely dropped, and the patient cannot extend either. The extensor muscles of the thumb phalanges (E. primi and E. secundi internodii poUicis) become paralysed, whilst the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is spared for a time at least. When the affection is well marked the dropping of the fingers is usually greatest towards the ulnar side, the little finger being most "dropped," the index finger least. The flexor muscles are not para- lysed. The grasp is impaired, however, when the hand is in the dropped position; but when the hand is put into the extended position the grasp is good. The supinator longus is usually (but not invariably) unaffected. The paralysis of muscles is followed by wast- ing, and the reaction of degeneration is found on electrical examination. Sometimes there is a swelling over the back of the hand near the wrist (Gubler's tumour) owing probably to thickening of the tendon sheaths of the long extensors of the fingers and to prominence of the carpal bones. Usually only the muscles already mentioned are affected; but occasionally the thenar, hypo- thenar, and interossei muscles gradually become paralysed, and the paralysis is accompanied by wasting. In these muscles there is a diminution of the excitability to galvanism and faradism; and there may be a qualitative change to galvanism. Occasionally another type of lead paralysis is met with in which the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus are fii'st paralysed. The legs are generally unaffected and the knee-jerks present; in rare cases, however, the peronei and long extensors of the toes are