PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 409 few of which may be present, are often of them- selves insufficient to allow of a diagnosis being- made, or of the condition being suspected in the absence of a history of pericarditis; but valu- able help may be derived by careful considera- tion of the question, " Are the symptoms such as the physical signs would lead one to expect, or are they severe out of all proportion ? " If the latter, adherent pericardium must be thought of as a possible cause of the unexpected break- down of the right ventricle when there is no exciting cause, such as undue strain or exertion, or kidney disease, or lung trouble to account for it. For the right ventricle, with its thinner walls, is most seriously hampered by pericardial adhesions, and in association with these there is frequently some substitution of fibrous tissue for muscle damaged by previous inflammation, so that an unexpected breakdown may readily occur. When a suspicion of adherent pericar- dium is thus aroused confirmatory evidence in the form of physical signs of this condition must be carefully sotxght for. Frequently, however, in spite of all care a certain diagnosis is im- possible. In cases of pericarditis which can be kept under observation for some time after the attack there is less difficulty in detecting the presence of adhesions. The indications which would lead one to suspect that the pericardium was be- coming adherent are:— Prolongation of the attack of pericarditis evidenced by the persistence of a harsh friction rub at various points over the pericardial area for some weeks, together with marked increase in the area of cardiac dulness, which remains permanently after all evidence of pericarditis has disappeared. This will in many instances, bvit not invariably, be due to the pericardium becoming adherent to a dilated heart; and later other physical signs of adherent pericardium may develop. Prognosis.—When the heart remains normal in size after the subsidence of pericarditis, and there are no adhesions between the pericardium and chest-wall, the universal adherence of the pericardium to the heart does not appear to materially shorten life. When the pericardium becomes adherent to a dilated heart and also to the chest-wall the prognosis is more serious. When adherent pericardium is a complication of valvular disease, it is liable to prove fatal at an earlier date by so hampering the right ventricle as to interfere with its recovery when compen- sation breaks down. It must not be forgotten that the degree in which the myocardium has been damaged at the time of the attack of pericarditis is an important factor in prognosis. Treatment.—The discovery of adherent peri- cardium is important from the point of view of treatment, not because anything can be done to remedy or remove adhesions when found, but because it will be necessary to impose additional restrictions on the patient, so that no undue risks may be run. Suppurative Pericarditis.—Purulent peri- carditis may occur as part of a general pysemic or septicsemic condition, or in association with empysema, abscess of the lung, suppuration of mediastinal or cervical glands, or of other adjacent structures. Sometimes no apparent cause can be found. The inflammatory process is almost invariably septic from the onset, due to the invasion of pyogenic micro-organisms, and is attended by effusion of pus into the pericardium. Seldom does a serous effusion of rheumatic or tubercular origin become purulent. The onset of the disease is, as a rule, insidious, and the discovery of pus in the pericardium is often not made till the post-mortem examination. Physical Signs.—There is seldom any definite friction rub to announce the onset of the attack. The physical signs present will be those of peri- cardial effusion, which have already been dis- cussed. Chief of these is increase in the area of cardiac dulness, and the difficulty in distin- guishing whether this be due to cardiac dilata- tion or effusion will be intensified when no friction rub has been heard to suggest the possibility of effusion. Furthermore, it not infrequently happens that the area of cardiac dulness is encroached upon by, or runs into, a large dull area due to empysema. Feebleness or loss of the apex beat and weak or distant heart-sounds may be noted, but will not be of great value, unless the case has been watched from the outset, so that a standard of com- parison could be formed. Thei'e may, occasion- ally, be oedema over the prgecordial region. Symptoms.—The temperature is usually that characteristic of some septic affection, but may sometimes be little above normal throughout. Rigors seldom occur unless as part of a general septicsemia, except in the somewhat rare event of a serous pericardial effusion becoming puru- lent. Pain is absent as a rule, but there may be a feeling of oppression in the prgecordial region. The pulse-rate and respiration are accelerated, and there is usually dyspnoea, especially on movement. Diagnosis. — The diagnosis presents many difficulties, and is frequently not made during life. In the absence of an antecedent friction rub effusion may not be suspected, and the intermittent pyrexia may be attributed to an empysema, or suppuration elsewhere than in the pericardium. If effusion is suspected an exploring-needle may be employed. The skin should be incised parallel to the ribs, as described under para- centesis pericardii, and the intercostal muscles divided before the needle is inserted into the pericardium, so that any bulging of the space may be noted, and the needle be accurately directed.