403 PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF pericardium where they come into contact, and giving rise to partial or universal adhesion between the heart and pericardium. Effusion may take place into the pericardial sac to a varying extent. Usually it is small in amount, but exceptionally it may be very large, as much as two pints having been recorded. In rheumatic cases a large effusion is un- common. As a rule in fatal cases in children there is little excess of fluid found in the peri- cardial sac post-mortem, but the two layers of pericardium are coated with thick yellow lymph. The effusion consists of a yellowish serous fluid in which leucocytes, shreds of fibrin, and endothelial cells are present in varying quantity. The fluid is usually clear, but may be turbid if there is much cellular exudation, and may contain flakes of lymph. Sometimes it is blood- stained, and in scurvy may consist almost entirely of blood. The Myocardial Changes. — These are of importance, as the myocardium seldom escapes damage in cases of pericarditis. They are de- scribed in detail elsewhere {vide " Heart"), but it may be as well to mention here that they consist of degenerative and fatty changes in the muscle fibres with focci of small round-celled infiltration in the interstitial tissue. General Descriptio7i of the Course of the Disease.—The only certain evidence of the onset of pericarditis is a to-and-fro pericardial friction sound heard on auscultation, caused by the rubbing together of the inflamed surfaces of the pericardium at each beat of the heart. Be- fore this becomes manifest certain premonitory symptoms, as a rule, make their appearance. These are : acceleration of the pulse ; excited or tremulous action of the heart; increase in the respiration rate, with dyspnoea; rise of tempera- ture ; and praecordial pain in varying degree. In children restlessness, night terrors, slight delirium on waking, and irregular action of the heart may sometimes be present in addition in acute cases. There is always some dilatation of the heart, sometimes appreciable before the appearance of the friction rub, usually pro- nounced in the later stages in severe cases. The pericardial rub persists for a varying time—from a day or two to a month or more, according to the severity and chronicity of the attack. The disappearance of the rub may indicate: (1) The subsidence of the attack ; (2) effusion into the pericardial sac; (.3) the formation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium. These points are all discussed at length later on. The physical signs and symptoms of pericarditis will now be considered in detail. Physical Signs.—Pericardial Friction Sound. —This, the characteristic sign of pericarditis, is caused by the rubbing together of the two inflamed surfaces of pericardium. It is a soft scratching sound, heard on auscultation, some- what resembling the noise made by scraping a piece of rough paper with the finger-nail. In chronic cases it may to a certain extent lose this soft scratching character and become harsh and rough. It appears to be very superficial, and is modified by pressure with the stethoscope, being rendered harsher and more distinct, or almost extinguished, accoi-ding to the degree of pressure exerted. Sometimes change of position, e.g. from the recumbent to the erect posture, will render the rub more distinct when it is not well heard. Site of the Rub.—The pericardial rub may be heard at any point over the praecordial area. It is localised at the onset, and is usually first heard at the base of the heart or over the lower end of the sternum; but frequently it is first apparent at the apex. It may remain localised to a small area, and then disappear, or may extend so as to be audible over tlae whole of the front of the heart, and when there is much dilatation may be heard for some distance to the right of the sternum. Rhythm of the Rub.—The friction rub is of a to-and-fro character, corresponding more or less to the movements of the heart in systole and diastole. Its rhythm varies somewhat accord- ing to its situation. When heard at the apex of the heart it may be a single systolic scratch synchronous with the apex beat, or a to-and-fro rub. When heard over the lower end of the sternum and between the sternum and apex it has a see-saw rhythm which is not exactly synchronous with the heart sounds, and is readily distinguishable from them. When heard at the base, over the auricles, it has a triple cantering rhythm which is very characteristic. Friction fremitus is best heard by placing the flat of the hand over the praecordial area. It is by no means always present or appreciable, but is usually most distinct where the pericardial rub is loudest and roughest. It is a curious scratching sensation of feeble intensity, and appears to be very superficial; it has not the vibratory character of the thrill associated with an endocardial murmur. The Heart.—The heart frequently appears to be excited out of all proportion to the severity of the attack, and the pulse is almost invariably accelerated. There may be a tumultuous heav- ing, wavy impulse over the whole precordial area, and auricular pulsation is sometimes seen in the second and third intercostal spaces in children, while epigastric pulsation may be present as well. These phenomena are usually most marked in prolonged or recurrent attacks, when the cardiac dilatation is pronounced. The Pidse.—The most constant and character- istic change in the pulse is acceleration of the rhythm, which is often pronounced before the friction rub is audible. Sometimes in children