PALATE 237 projecting margin of the bony cleft must be forced into position by strong forceps, the blades of which are covered by rubber tubing, or it may be necessary to fracture the prominent alveolus or divide it with a fine saw about one inch external to the cleft, and, having pared the edges of the cleft, to suture them into position. In order to overcome the extreme broadening of the nostril an incision curved round the ala nasi may be required. The other steps of the operation ai-e similar to those already described. Double Hare-Lip.—The operation for the cure of complicated cases of double hare-lip will be considered under the headings of (1) simple cases, where the os incisivum retains its normal position; (2) where the bone projects forwards. 1. Where there is no projection :— (1) The soft parts are freely separated from the jaws, and the prolabium from the os in- cisivum. (2) The margins of the cleft are pared by one of the methods already mentioned. The pro- labium is also pared in a rectangular or V-shaped manner, so that it will fit in between the pared edges of the lip when they are brought together. When the cleft is complete the incision must be carried into the nostril in the manner already described, in order to overcome the flattening of the nose ; and in aggravated cases it is often necessary to carry an incision around each ala nasi, and to freely separate the nostril from the bone. In these cases the removal of an elliptical portion of skin allows the lip to come readily together without giving rise to undue narrowing of the nose. The precautions already mentioned as neces- sary to prevent a notch at the red margin must be adopted. The method of closing the pared cleft merits attention. The prolabium must not be brought down to the red margin, otherwise the tip of the nose will be depressed. In cases of moderate severity the apex of the V is fixed above the middle of the new lip. In others the prolabium can only be used to form a columella, and merely its tip brought between the lateral segments. 2. Where the os incisivum projects, the methods of dealing with the projection vary according to the degree of deformity. The bone may be replaced, excised subperiosteally, or entirely removed. Complete excision leaves the central portion of the lip unsupported, and ought to be reserved for cases where the pro- jection is very great or its neck of attachment very narrow. (1) The soft parts are freely separated from the bone, and the projection is forced into position and the cleft closed. (2) In greater degrees of deformity the opera- tion is best done in two stages—the central portion dissected off' the bone, which is dealt with by one of the following methods, and a week or ten days later the cleft is closed. (a) K-shaped portion may be removed after the mucous membrane and periosteum have been detached from the septum. The bone is then replaced, and retained in position by wire sutures passed through the alveolar margins. If the sutures be left somewhat long the child's tongue will not press against the bone. (6) Partial removal of the bone overcomes the deformity, and the subsequent formation of new bone supports the upper lip. An incision may be made along the lower border of the projection, and a portion of the bone together with the teeth be gouged away; or, a subperi- osteal excision may be performed through a similar incision, and the remaining flaps united to the anterior and posterior margins of the rawed alveolar borders. (c) Entire reriioval of the os incisivum is accomplished by dividing the neck with bone forceps. Bleeding can usually be arrested by pressure ; sometimes a touch with the cautery is necessary. Closure of the cleft is eff'ected in the manner already described. The broadened nostrils and shortened columella require especial attention. In aggravated cases the closure of the cleft may be performed in two stages, one side being operated upon first and the other subsequently closed. This method in cases of extreme defor- mity yields excellent results. Suturing the Cleft.—The best materials are silver wire or silkworm-gut for the deep, and horse-hair for the superficial stitches. Cat-gut is employed by many for the mucous membrane. Hare-lip pins are seldom advisable or necessa^3^ The cutaneous portion of the cleft should be carefully sutured, care being taken to prevent inversion of the edges, and the red margins of i the lip, the projecting tags of mucous membrane, or the flap, according to the method of paring which has been employed, drawn evenly and accurately together. The number of deep sutures necessary (silver wire of moderate size is the best material) when the gap is a wide one will depend upon the extent of the cleft. The needle is introduced about one-third of an inch from the rawed surface and carried down to, but not through, the mucous membrane. If this plan be adopted, it is not necessary to unite the mucous mem- brane on the buccal aspect by cat-gut. In a complete cleft three deep stitches are usually required—one at the top of the cleft close up to the nose, a second about the middle, and the third just above the red margin of the lip. All these sutures ai-e passed, and the accuracy of their position tested before the wire is tied. Two or more intermediate superficial sutures of horse-hair are then introduced, and finally the red margin is brought accurately together on its external, internal, and inferior aspects