17 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS The muscle tissue on microscopical examina- tion often appears normal. Sometimes changes are observed. The muscular fibres may be simply diminished in size, the transverse stria- tion being preserved ; or the transverse striation may be lost, the fibre degenerated, the nuclei of the sarcolemma and perimysium proliferated, and the perimysium broader than in the normal condition. The diseased fibres are often mixed with normal fibres. In a few cases marked muscular changes have been observed—granular and fatty degeneration of the muscle fibres, with marked proliferation of interstitial nuclei and interstitial connective tissue (marked paren- chymatous and interstitial muscular changes). The blood-vessels in the nerves and muscles are often normal, but they may present thicken- ing of all their coats, with surrounding cell proliferation. When the lumen of the vessels is greatly narrowed, the vascular changes may then increase those in the nerves and muscles. Vascular changes, when present, are seen in other parts also. Microscopical changes in the central nervous system are rare, and when present are usually slight. By the older methods of examination the cord and its nerve-cells usually appear quite normal. [In a few rare cases recorded by Leyden, Oppenheim, and others, in addition to the peripheral neuritis there was atrophy of the cells of the anterior horns, or diffused or dis- seminated patches of inflammation, or patches of poliomyelitis. But such changes have been too rare or too slight to throw any doubt on the peripheral nature of the disease.] By recent methods of examination, slight changes have been sometimes found in the spinal cord when stained according to Nissl's method. Disappearance of the Nissl's granules of the nerve-cells of the anterior horn has been observed along with a lateral displacement of the cell nucleus. These changes are probably secondary to those in the peripheral nerves (reaction a distance of Mai-inesco). They are not constant (Dejerine and Thomas). By staining the cord according to Marchi's method degenerated fibres have been sometimes found, especially in the posterior columns (Campbell, Soukhanoff), in Lissauer's zone, and occasionally in other parts. Arsenical Neuritis.—This form of multiple neuritis has followed acute arsenical poisoning from a single large dose of arsenic. In other cases it has been due to chronic poisoning from pigments containing arsenic, and from various forms of slow poisoning. Occasionally it has been produced by arsenic given in large medi- cinal doses for chorea and other affections. Osier states, however, that only one case has followed the use of liquor arsenicalis in his hospital practice, although he is " in the habit of giving, in chorea and anaemia, doses which VOL. VII might be regarded as excessive." Amongst 312 cases of chorea treated with liquor arseni- calis, Railton has met with 3 cases of arsenical neuritis, and he states that many other children had the same or larger doses of arsenic without neuritis being produced. [Neuritis from arsenical beer is considered in the next section of this article. Vide infra.'\ Symptoms.—In some cases the neuritic symp- toms have developed a few days or a few weeks after the gastro-intestinal symptoms produced by acute poisoning. In other cases the gastro- intestinal symptoms have been slight or absent, and the neuritic symptoms have developed gradually. Sometimes conjunctivitis is present at the onset. The nervous symptoms commence with pain, numbness, and tingling in the legs, or legs and arms (most marked in feet and hands). The pain is often greater than in alcohol neuritis, and is both superficial and deep-seated in the limbs. The muscles and superficially situated nerves are very tender on pressure. Loss of power develops in the legs, and the feet are dropped just as in alcoholic neuritis. The arms are often paralysed ; the common extensor muscles of the forearm are most affected, and there is double-dropped wrist. But the flexors and the small muscles of the hand are often paralysed also, and this occurs more frequently than in alcoholic or lead neuritis. Usually there is paresis or paralysis in all four limbs. Sometimes the paralysis is limited to the legs, but it is scarcely ever limited to the arms. The affected muscles undergo atrophy. Fibrillary twitchings are said to be more frequently present than in alcoholic or lead neuritis. On electrical ex- amination there is a diminished excitability, or a reaction of degeneration may occur. The knee-jerks disappear; the plantar and cremas- teric reflexes are diminished or absent. In addition to the sensory symptoms already mentioned there is often hypersesthesia; which is followed by diminution or loss of tactile sensation. Hyperalgesia is often present, or there may be hyperalgesia with loss of tactile sensibility. Ataxia is often noted, and it is sometimes a prominent symptom; usually it is combined with motor paresis. Sweating of the hands and feet is common. The skin may become glossy, and often other skin affections are observed, such as pigmenta- tion (diffused bronzing, like that in Addison's disease, or circumscribed small pigmented spots), erythema, herpes zoster, hyperkeratosis. There is often falling off of the hair. The pigmenta- tion and skin lesions are not always present. Diagnosis.—In all cases of neuritis of doubtful origin the possibility of arsenic being the cause of the neuritis should be considered. If arsenic is entering the system it may be possible to detect it in the urine. (The writer has detected 2