129 NURSERY HYGIENE used ; this is usually covered with a stout piece of mackintosh waterproofing, and an old blanket doubled over this for the infant to lie on. The infant must on no account be allowed to share its mother's bed, as the risk of " overlying " or suffocation under the clothes is very consider- able. The mother and nurse must be warned not to cover the baby's face with the bedclothes, as they are apt to do in cold weather, as this foolish proceeding is responsible for much loss of infant life, not only among the poorer, but also among the well-to-do classes. There is reason to believe that many deaths of young infants certified as " convulsions " are in reality deaths from suffocation. Maintain a suitable temperature in the night nursery all through the night, and then there is no need for heavy bedclothes or for covering up the baby's face. In the case of immature or weakly infants a cot may be very readily provided by lining a suitable wicker-work basket with Gamgee tissue and absorbent cotton-wool for a mattress. The napkin can be made of a similar material, and the infant wrapped in cotton-wool instead of being dressed. One or more rubber hot- water bottles may be placed in the cot at a suitable distance from the infant. The nursery both day and night must be maintained at a higher temperature (about 70° F.) than is necessary for a vigorous infant. Nurses. — Serious attention has been paid during the last few years to educating and training nurses for infants and children, and raising their status more nearly to the level of those engaged in sick-nursing. A well-educated, refined, and capable nurse is simply invaluable; a vulgar, unreliable, or feckless and ignorant one may do untold mischief to the health and morals of infants and children. How much a good nurse can eff"ect by training in the nursery ! By carefully attending to the in- fant's wants she may save much wetting and soiling of napkins and clothes. She can get her baby off" to sleep when irritable and feverish when no one else can. She can save exhibitions of temper aud much unnecessary crying in the nursery. By attention to the feeding she may prevent not only minor ills but serious illness. Such a nurse is indeed a blessing, and deserves to be well paid and treated with every con- sideration in the household. Bathing.—Infants are usually bathed in the morning before being dressed, while older children are mostly bathed at night. The infant's morning bath is necessary on account of the fouling of the napkin during the night, and the consequent necessity of a thorough cleansing of the skin about the groin and buttocks. It is unnecessary to say that the wetting of the napkin during day or night should be avoided as much as possible by holding the infant out over the chamber vessel. The temperature of a baby's bath should be VOL. VII about blood-heat; the infant quickly loses heat when exposed to a temperature lower than its own tissues, and if placed in too cool a bath it quickly becomes blue and depressed. On the other hand, a bath of too high a temperature, or too long a stay in the water, soddens the skin and makes it tender. If the thermometer marks 100° F. when the bath is filled, the temperature of the water will be about right by the time the infant has been vmdressed and got ready. The nurse usually covers her lap with a mackintosh and blanket, then uses flannel and soap, especially about the buttocks and other folds of the skin, puts the infant in its bath for a minute or so to remove the soap, and then rapidly dries it with a soft towel. As the infant gets older it may be allowed to stay longer in its bath, as it can stand the water better. For older children a morning sponge all over with tepid or cold water is invigorating and healthful; delicate children should stand with their feet in warm water during the spong- ing process. They should be well rubbed down with a warm towel after the douche. Clothing.—-The most unsatisfactory article connected with an infant's wardrobe is the napkin, and the sooner the infant can be taught to do without it the better it will be for its health and comfort. It should be the aim of every good nurse to train the infant to do with- out a napkin as soon as possible. Whenever a napkin is wetted or soiled it should be at once removed, and the infant's buttocks cleansed with soap and water, carefully dried, and a clean warm napkin applied. Uncleanliness in this respect, and contact of wetted napkins with the skin for any length of time, is certain to produce fretting and irritation of the skin. Powders are imnecessary in healthy infants if the skin is well dried ; but if there is redness or excoriated skin, the afl^ected part after cleansing and drying may be dusted with starch and boric acid, or starch and zinc oxide. Whatever powder is used, it should be finely ground. Ointments are greasy, dirty, and often injurious. To smear an ointment over a half cleaned and still filthy "napkin area" is to invite disease. It requires a good and capable nurse to keep the buttocks of an infant in a healthy state when it is suffering from severe diarrhoea. Soiled napkins, especially if the infant is suff'ering from diarrhoea, ought never to be allowed to accumulate in the nursery or bathroom. The diarrhoea stools of an infant are frequently capable of conveying infection to others, and in consequence should be removed from the nursery, and if possible disinfected, by im- mediate boiling. The nurse's hands should be carefully washed. Where it is not possible to disinfect, by boiling at once, the soiled napkins should be well covered with carbolic powder and placed in a pan fitted with a lid. The pan should preferably be kept out of doors. A 9