496 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Secreting Epithelium. — A number of cells, having for their function the production of some material which is to be excreted from the cell, are arranged as the lining of depressions, the glands. The simplestte-m of gland is the simple tubular —a test-tube-like depression, lined by secreting cells. Instead of being simple, the tube may- be branched, when the gland is said to be race- mose. In many glands the secreting epithelium is confined to the deeper part of the tube, the alveolus or acinus (Fig. 6), while the more superficial part is lined by cells which do not secrete, forming the duct. In many situations several simple glands are grouped together, their ducts opening into one common duct, and a compound gland results. Secreting epithelium varies according to the material it produces. (A) Mucin-secreting Epithelium.—Many glands have for their function the production of mucus, a slimy substance of use in lubricating the mouth, stomach, intestine, etc. The acini con- taining svich cells are usually large. The cells themselves are large, and are placed on a delicate basement membrane, a condensation of the subjacent fibrous tissue, which bounds the acinus. The nuclei are situated near to the attached margin of the cells, which are somewhat irregular in shape, and are packed close together. Their appearance varies accord- ing to whether the gland has been at rest or has been actively secreting. Resting State.—In the former case, in the fresh condition, the cells are large, and pressed closely together. Their protoplasm is filled with large shining granules. After treatment with reagents, each cell becomes distended with clear, transparent mucin formed by the swelling and coalescence of the granules. After Activity. — After the gland has been actively secreting, the cells are smaller and the granules are much less numerous, being chiefly situated at the free extremity of the cell, and leaving the nucleus much more apparent. This form of epithelium, during the resting condition of the gland, takes up nourishing matter and forms this mucin-yielding substance. During the active state of the gland the mucin- yielder is changed to mucin, and is extruded from the cells into the lumen of the gland. Mucin is a substance of great importance in the animal economy. When precipitated and freed from water it is white and amorphous. On the addition of water it swells up and forms a glairy mass. In the presence of alkalies it forms a more or less viscous solution, and from this sokition it is precipitated by acetic acid. In composition it is a protein linked to a molecule allied to the sugars, glucosamine CyH^-^NH205, and is therefore called a giyco-protein. When boiled with an acid it yields sugar. In adult life the great function of mucin is to give to certain secretions a slimy character which renders them of value as lubricants. (B) Zymin - secreting Epithelium. — Another form of secreting epithelium of great import- ance is that which forms the various juices which act upon the food to digest it. These juices owe their activity to the presence of enzymes or zymins. A zymin-forming gland after a pro- longed period of rest shows cells closely packed together, so that it is difficult to make out their borders. The protoplasm is loaded with granules which are much smaller than those seen in the mucin- forming cells, and which do not swell up in the same way, under the action of re- agents. The nucleus is often obscured by the presence of these granules. When the gland has been actively secreting, the granules become fewer in number, and are confined to the free ex- tremity of the cell; they are obviously passing out. The cell becomes smaller, and its outline is more distinct and the nucleus more apparent. The granules which fill the cells are not composed of the active enzyme. If extracts of the living cells be made, they are inert, and it is only after the granules have left the cell, or are in the process of leaving, that they become active. Hence, the granules are said to be com- posed of zymin-forming substance or zymogen. The series of changes are parallel to those described in the mucin-forming cells. During the so-called resting state of the gland, the cells are building up zymogen. When the gland is active, the cells throw off the material they have accumulated, and it undergoes a change to zymin. (C) Excreting epithelium does not manufacture materials of use in the animal economy, but passes substances out of the body. Such epi- thelium is seen in the kidneys, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, mammary glands, and perhaps in the liver. The cells are composed of a granular protoplasm, in which the presence of