40 NEURASTHENIA neurotic history. The patient, a young woman of about thirty, was supporting herself by teaching, and at the same time working for the London M.A. degree. She came of a nervous stock, one sister being in an asylum and both parents highly nervous. She worked hard, fed poorly, and came out in honours. Then she collapsed, complaining of many digestive troubles and of constant pain in the region of the pylorus. She was ill for many months, but gradually recovered with rest and tonic treatment. In both these cases the nervous fatigue had ap- parently manifested itself only in the nerves of the abdominal viscera. The writer saw once in consultation some years ago a patient in whom the functions of defsecation and urination were almost completely arrested without any real paralysis. She was a single woman, thirty-three years old. Her trouble began suddenly ten years earlier, when her father, an old man of seventy-five, had had a sudden attack of retention of urine, which necessitated afterwards the habitual use of the catheter. The daughter's story was that from that day she had never been able to micturate naturally—"it took hours at her worst and minutes at her best" to pass water. The bowels were in much the same condition of suspended power. Her " whole life was occu- pied with the labour of getting relief of the bladder and bowels. She was anaemic and thin, and she slept and ate very badly. There was no evidence of anything wrong outside of the nervous system." Still more remarkable are the cases in which the secretion of urine is for a time almost completely suppressed. The writer was for some years familiar with a patient in whom any undue fatigue or nerve worry or loss of sleep was followed at once by almost complete absence of urine. The total amount passed would be 4 or 5 oz. in the twenty-four hours ; sometimes, according to the patient's own story, even less. So far as could be estimated, the amoimt of iirea was often less, for several days in succession, than one- quarter of the normal amount. These statements could not be actually verified, as the patient lived at a distance, but it is certain that the amount of urine was very much reduced, and that the urea it contained was not proportion- ately or even actually increased. By sending the patient to bed, purging her gently, and following it with iron and liquor ammon-acetatis in moderately large and repeated doses the secretion was usually soon restored. The con- dition here seen is commonly called " hysterical," and it may be that it is correct to so describe it. The patient in question, however, was not "hysterical" in any other way. All that one could be sure about was that her renal nerves were prone, upon fatigue of mind or body, to strike work. Charcot believed that in these cases of nervous ischuria the explanation of the absence of grave symptoms must lie in a remarkable arrest in the formation of excrementitious material. But even if we accept this view it is surprising that catalytic activity can be so considerably checked, unless next to no food or exercise is taken, without serious results. In the patient seen by the writer there was discomfort of a marked kind, but no symptom of grave import, in spite of most marked diminution in the daily excre- tion of urea. Both the cases narrated were extreme instances of visceral neurasthenia. The sexual form of neurasthenia is probably much more common in men than women. Some cases of ovarian pain are no doubt due to neur- asthenia, but they are rare as contrasted with the cases in which pain is due to imperfect de- velopment or to atrophy of the ovaries, to ansemia or to tubercular or inflammatory mis- chief of the ovaries or Fallopian tubes. In support of this view it may be remembered how many cases of ovarian pain are now cured by surgery. Thirty or forty years ago many of them would have been confidently labelled " ovarian neuralgia." The relation of neurasthenia to diseases of the female reproductive organs has been a battlefield for rival schools of thought for many centuries. No doubt the reflex nervous relations between the reproductive and other organs are always numerous and important. Nevertheless it is possible to exaggerate their importance, and to attribute to the influence of this part of the organism far more than properly belongs to it. Probably the truth is, that in conditions of nervous instability and malnutrition all reflexes are increased, and that a trifling abrasion of the cervix may under such circumstances be the cause of reflex disturbances that would never be seen in a person of good nervous health. For it is certain that in a large number of women reflex disturbance is not seen in the presence of pelvic ailments, either grave or trifling, and also that where such disturbances are present they can often be cured by treatment addressed mainly to the general health, and to the nutrition and maintenance of balance in the nervous centres. Sexual excesses are much more fi'equently the immediate cause of neurasthenia in men than in women. Excess in this as in other things is a relative term. A very moderate amount of sexual indulgence is enough to produce in some men a condition of neurasthenia which may be most marked, and may remain permanently. It is not very uncommon to hear of cases that began immediately after marriage. The writer is acquainted with a case in which the patient had worked very hard and successfully in establishing a large business, often going for many weeks at a time with very little sleep and irregular meals. When about thirty-five he married, and before the honeymoon was over he developed serious symptoms of cerebral neur-