107 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES secretion clear but of a tenacious consistence. Killian has laid stress in diagnosis upon the green colour of the pus from the frontal sinus; but too much diagnostic importance must not be attached to any of the physical characters of the nasal discharge. The patient may com- plain that at times he both expectorates and removes with the aid of his handkerchief small crusts; there is a greater tendency for the dis- charge to dry into crusts in sphenoidal sinus disease, and according to Hajek the same thing is noticed in ethmoid cell suppuration. He may complain, too, of a foetid odour, and further, that the discharge which passes into the throat has a bad taste. In one of my cases the patient was conscious of the foetor in one nostril only. When a bad odour alone is complained of, a suspicion of a possible maxillary sinus suppuration should be aroused, as occasionally that constitutes the only subjective symptom met with. In some cases even of long-standing antral suppuration the discharge is not foetid. As a diagnostic aid it is important to bear in mind that in sinus disease the sufferer is con- scious of the odour while his neighbours are not; in foetid atrophic-rhinitis, on the other hand, the opposite is usually the case, the sense of smell being destroyed in the latter affection. The two conditions, however, sometimes co-exist; further, in sinus suppuration the nose may be so blocked with polypi that the sense of smell is lost. The discharge may be unilateral or bilateral; its presence in both nasal chambers does not necessarily imply a bilateral affection, as it may be blown forward from the naso-pharynx into the healthy side. On the other hand, at least one case has been reported in which unilateral nasal discharge occurred although both frontal sinuses were affected. The flow of pus is often more or less intermittent, being worse when the patient stoops; again, it may accumulate in the throat in the morning. This inter- mittency influenced by posture is suggestive of the antral origin of the discharge; a more constant flow may be in favour of its frontal source. Further, in some antral cases, the dis- charge passes mainly if not entirely backwards into the naso-pharynx and pharynx, this symp- tom constituting the patient's chief complaint. This may depend upon the existence of a large accessory antral opening, which serves to drain the cavity in a backward direction. Pus from the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells tends to pass in the same direction, while from the frontal sinus the flow is mainly forwards. (b) Nasal Obstmction may or may not ac- company sinus suppuration, being dependent mainly on the presence of polypi; it may be unilateral or bilateral, partial or complete. The patient sometimes complains of its inter- mittent character, due in all probability to the varying amount of turgescence of the inferior turbinated bodies. (c) Pain is a very variable symptom, and, as already indicated, may be absent throughout the whole course of the disease. It may be of the nature of headache, facial neuralgia, or toothache, sometimes slight, at other times occurring in severe paroxysms, often periodic in character. Some patients complain of a weight or fulness in the forehead, aggravated on stooping; others have associated with this an inability to concentrate their thoughts for any length of time, while mental work merely induces headache ; mental depression sometimes accompanies ethmoid disease. Such symptoms may be entirely due to nasal obstruction, as they may disappear after the removal of the polypi, a fact which is also observed when free respiration through the nose is established in cases in which there is no sinus affection. Too much importance should not be attached to the seat of the pain in this class of case. When this symptom is complained of in chronic antral suppuration it is most commonly located in the supra-orbital region; frontal headaches are just as frequent in ethmoidal as in frontal sinus disease, while in the latter condition occipital pain has been in several instances noted. In sphenoidal sinus disease pain may be com- plained of on the vertex, but occipital headache or painful sensations referred to the back of the eyes are also met with. The frequent combina- tion of sinus affections merely increases the difficulty of estimating the value of pain as a diagnostic symptom. Pain or tenderness is rarely elicited by pressure iipon the facial wall of the antrum. Tenderness induced by pres- sure on the floor of the frontal sinus in disease of that cavity, or upon the lachrymal bone in eth- moid affections, are signs of clinical value which will be again referred to under special diagnosis. (d) Certain secondary symptoms may arise in connection with sinus suppuration, e.g. cough, dryness of the throat, and huskiness of voice, due to irritation of the upper air passages from the purulent discharge, while true asthmatic symptoms are occasionally met with. Indi- gestion is not infrequent as a result of swallow- ing the offensive secretion. (e) Eye Symptoms.—The intimate anatomical association of the various sinuses with the orbit and its contents (Fig. 4), and the proximity of the sphenoidal sinus to the floor of the middle cranial fossa in the neighbourhood of the im- portant oculomotor and optic nerves, sufficiently explain the occasional occurrence of eye symp- toms in sinus disease. Generally speaking, we may group these symptoms and signs into two classes: those which are dependent upon dis- placement of the eyeball by mechanical pressure, such as occurs in ethmoidal, frontal and maxil- lary suppuration; and, secondly, those which result from compression or destruction of the optic or oculomotor nerves, more commonly met with in sphenoidal sinus disease.