288 PARALYSIS upon the spastic condition of the legs, the ex- aggerated knee-jerks, the presence of ankle clonus, and the absence of the Argyll-Robertson pupil phenomenon. In the later stages when the knee-jerks are absent, the complete loss of power of movement in the legs, the absence of the pupil phenomenon, and the presence of an extensor response as the plantar reflex, together with the history of a previous spastic stage, make the diagnosis clear. The symptoms that most closely resemble those of disseminated sclerosis are the slight nystagmus, ataxia, and spasticity, and the differ- ential diagnosis has to be based rather on an aggregate of small points than on any one symptom. The subjects of disseminated sclerosis are as a rule younger, usually between twenty and thirty rather than between thirty and forty, as in the case of subacute combined degeneration ; remission of symptoms frequently occurs, nystagmus is more pronounced, and the sphincters are usually affected early. On the other hand, the slight affection of the arms while the legs are markedly affected, the presence of girdle and lightning pains, and the symmetrical affection of all four limbs, are points in favour of subacute combined degeneration. In distinguishing the disease from peripheral neuritis it is only during the third stage that any difficulty is liable to arise, and then, apart from a definite history of a spastic stage, the incontinence of urine, the angesthesia of the trunk, the girdle pain, and the extensor response of the plantar reflex are sufficient to exclude the peripheral affection. The diagnosis from acute myelitis is by no means easy in the absence of a distinct history of a gradual onset. A rapid onset of symptoms with early occm-rence of bladder trouble, marked pain and tenderness in the back on bending the head forward, absence of any affection of the arms, greater disturbance of temperature, more rapid wasting of muscles, and complete loss of reflexes, would all be in favour of myelitis. Nevertheless, certain cases of acute myelitis very closely resemble those of combined de- generation of the cord. A tiunour involving the spinal cord and giving rise at first to a spastic paraplegia, followed by flaccid paralysis, might suggest the possibility of a combined degeneration of the cord, but the presence of severe radiating root pain, complete absence of any affection of the arms, and the early onset of bladder symptoms, would all be in favour of the diagnosis of tumour. Prognosis.—The disease in most cases runs a steadily progressive course from its onset to its termination in two to three years ; in certain cases, however, it has run through its various stages in less than six months; improvement occasionally takes place, but is not as a rule long maintained. Treatment.—Treatment has almost no influ- ence on the course of the disease, except in so far as the anaemia is concerned, which will often improve on the administration of arsenic and iron. Bedsores are almost certain to form during the third stage of the disease in spite of the most careful nursing. Cystitis, which not infrequently occurs, is not as a rule severe, and yields to the ordinary treatment. II. Flaccid Paralysis Family Periodic Paralysis.—Definition.— A disease occurring in families and character- ised by attacks of widespread flaccid paralysis, with loss of reflexes and electrical excitability of the muscles, without sensory, vesical, rectal, or psychic disturbance, and with intervals of perfect health. Historical. — The first case of this disease was described by Cavare, in 1853, in a woman aged twenty-four, who had several attacks of generalised paralysis. In 1876, Hart wig pub- lished a case of intermittent spinal paralysis in a patient aged twenty-three. In 1885, West- phal brought the condition prominently forward in a paper "On an Unusual Case of Periodic Paralysis of all Four Extremities, with simul- taneous Loss of the Electrical Excitability during the Paralysis." The case was that of a boy aged twelve years, in whom the attacks began with weakness in the legs; after a short time the arms and legs wei'e completely para- lysed and flaccid, the knee-jerks were not ob- tainable, and the electrical examination showed quantitative diminution to both galvanism and faradism. The following day improvement took place, and gradually became complete. On this case he says: " This relative rapid loss and return of electrical irritability in the nerves and muscles is without parallel. We know neither a disease of the spinal cord nor of the nerves in which anything of the like nature has been observed; even physiology fails to explain such a condition." Then followed a series of papers by Goldflam, Oppenheimer, and others, while in 1898 Taylor of Harvard published a case of a boy in whose family the disease could be traced for five generations. To this is appended an admirable digest of the subject up to that date. Etiology. — The age at which the disease most frequently occurs is between the second and third decade of life, but a few cases occur during the first decade, and also during the later periods of life. It would seem probable, therefore, that the affection owes its origin to certain conditions prevalent in youth. Both sexes are equally affected, and the malady is transmitted through the female as well as through the male line. The distinct disposition of the disease to affect various members of a family, and to pass from parent to child, is abundantly proved by the published cases ; for out of 54 cases recorded