562 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM E. The Crura Cerebri and Corpora QUADRIGEMINA Above the pons Varolii, the two halves of the medulla diverge from one another and form the Fig. 99.—Cross section through anterior corpora quadrigemina and cerebral peduncles. .4.5'., aqueductof Sylvius; ///., nucleus of third nerve ; S.C.P., superior cerebellar peduncles; P., mesial fillet; Fi, lateral fillet; P., pyramidal tract; CO., cerebello- cerebral fibres. (After Bruce.) peduncles of the cerebrum (Fig. 99, CO., P.), while posteriorly the two superior peduncles of the cerebellum come together, S.C.F. Above these, two swellings develop on each side—the anterior and posterior corpora quadrigemina (Fig. 92, p. 557). The crusta, or anterior parts of each peduncle of the cerebrum, is composed, in its central part, of the pyramidal fibres passing down from the cerebrum to the spinal cord, P., and, on each side, of the cerebello-cerebral fibres passing up- wards from the pons, CC. The posterior part, or tegmentum, contains—\st. The fillet fibres going partly to the corpora quadrigemina, partly on- wards to the thalamus opticus, F. ; 2nd. The nuclei of the 3rd and 4th cranial nerves; Zrd. The fibres of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum which cross the middle line, S.C.P.; and 4:th. The red nuclei in which most of these fibres end. The functions of this segment of the brain are chiefly conducting, but the anterior corpora quadrigemina form the shunting station between the incoming fibres of the optic tract and the oculo-motor mechanism (see p. 513). F. The Cerebrum Structure.—Each crus or peduncle terminates in its half of the cerebrum (Fig. 86, p. 552). As the fibres pass from peduncle to cerebrum and vice versd they come into relationship with three masses of grey matter lying in the midst of the cerebrum. These are the thalamus ox'ticus, into which the ingoing fibres enter; the lenti- cular micleus, between which and the thalamus the outgoing fibres run; and the caudate nucleus, the main part of which lies in front of the other two (Fig. 100). The fibres, above these nuclei, spread out to form the cotvna radiata and enter a crust of grey matter, the cortex cerebri, which covers over the cerebrum, and which in the higher animals is raised into a number of folds or convolutions marked off from one another by fissures and sulci. The more important of these are shown in Fig. 103. In the lower vertebrata the diff'erentiation of the cortex from the basal ganglia is incomplete, and it is only in the higher mammals, monkeys and man, that the cortex reaches its full physio- logical importance. The structure of the cortex cerebri as regards the arrangement of cells and fibres is some- what complex, and varies greatly at different parts; but the general type is as follows {see Fig. 104) :— A. Cells (Fig. 104, ^).—1. Plexiform layer. At the surface of the cortex is a thin layer of small irregular cells. 2. Layer of small pyramidal cells. 3. Layer of medium pyramidal cells. 4. External layer of large pyramidal cells. Some writers class layers 2, 3, and 4 as one. Fig. 100. — Diagrammatic horizontal section through base of cerebral hemisphere, showing (1) the outgoing fibres for the leg, arm, and face springing from the cortex of the Rolandic areas, passing through the internal capsule between the thalamus and the lenticular nucleus. The face fibres cross in the pons, the leg and arm fibres in the medulla. (2) The incoming fibres (fillet, eye) form their stations in the thalamus, and then pass on to the cortex. 5. Layers of stellate cells. This is a thin but well-defined layer of minute polymorphic cells lying rather more than half-way down the thick- ness of the cortex.