PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAE MECHANISM 534 tions in its shading and colour due to the condition of the atmosphere. A range of hills will at one time be judged to be quite near, at another time to be distant. Since the estima- tion of the size of an object depends upon the judgment of its distance, the estimate we form of the size of such objects as a range of hills is often erroneous. When objects are near the eye, a special mechanism comes into play to enable us to determine their distance (see p. 545). The idea of thickness or contour of an object is also largely a judgment based upon colour and shading. When a cube is looked at, we judge that it is a cube because of the degrees of illumination of the different sides—degrees of illumination which may be reproduced in a flat picture of such a cube. When the object is near the eyes, by using the two eyes together a means of determining solidity comes into action (see p. 545). When the manner in which we gain know- ledge of our surroundings by vision is analysed, it must be admitted that the dictum " seeing is believing " has at best an unsubstantial physio- logical basis, and that most of the points about anything which we say we see—e.g. its size, distance, and contour—are largely judgments formed by us upon a flat picture produced in the cells of the eye, which flat picture has in turn led to these changes in our brain which are accompanied by the changes in our con- sciousness upon which our judgment has to act. Nevertheless in man the visual sense is that which plays the most important part in bring- ing the individual into definite relation with his surroundings. Any defect in the visual mechanism must, and does, lead to defects in the mental picture formed, and the accuracy of the judgment will depend upon the accuracy of the picture, and upon the previous experience and training of the nerve structures involved. But, further, while the parts of the brain connected with the visual sense are usually stimulated by changes in the cells of the eye, they may be directly stimulated ; and when this is the case, a sensation of light, apparently in front of the eye, is experienced, because the centres are naturally stimulated by light enter- ing the eye. Sensations thus produced are called illusions, and they are well illustrated by the apparent flashes of light before the eyes which sometimes precede an epileptic attack and which are caused by direct irritation of the surface of the brain. B. Anatomy of the Eye.—Before attempting to study the physiology of the eye, the student must dissect an ox's or a j^ig's eye, and then make himself familiar with the microscopic structure of the various parts. The eye may be described as a hollow sphere of fibrous tissue (Fig. 50), the posterior part. the sclerotic (ScL), being opaque ; the anterior part, the cornea (Cor.), being transparent and forming part of a sphere of smaller diameter than the sclerotic. Inside the sclerotic coat is a loose fibrous layer, the choroid (Chor.), the connective-tissue cells of which are loaded with Fig. 50.—Horizontal section through the left eye. Cor., cor- nea; Sol., sclerotic; Opt.N., optic nerve; Chor., choroid; Cil.M., ciliary processes with ciliary muscle; D.P., dilator pupillse muscle ; Sph.P., sphincterpupillse muscle; L., crys- talline lens; S.L., hyaloid membrane forming suspensory ligament and capsule of lens ; Ret., retina. The vertical line passing through the axis of the eye falls upon the central spot of the retina. melanin, a black pigment. This is the vas- cular coat of the eye—the larger vessels run- ning in its outer part, and the capillaries in its inner layer. Anteriorly, just behind the junction of the cornea and sclerotic, it is thickened and raised in a number of ridges, the ciliary process (Gil. M.), running from behind forward and terminating abruptly in front. In these the ciliary muscle is situated. It consists of two sets of non-striped muscular fibres—first, radiating fibres, which take origin from the sclerotic just behind the corneo-sclerotic junc- tion, and run backwards and outwards to be inserted with the bases of the ciliary processes; second, circular fibres which run round the processes just inside the radiating fibres. The choroid is continued forward in front of the ciliary processes to the pupil as the iris, and in it are also two sets of non-striped muscular fibres—first, the circular fibres, a well-marked band running round the pupil, and called the sphincter pupilloi (Sph. P.) muscle ; second, a less well-marked set of radiating fibres, which are absent in some animals, and which constitute the dilator pupilla muscle (D.P.). That part of the eye in front of the iris is filled by a lymph-like fluid, the aqueous humour, while the part behind is occupied by a fine jelly- like mucoid tissue, the vitreous humour. The vitreous humour is enclosed in a delicate fibrous capsule, the hyaloid membrane, and just behind the ciliary processes this membrane becomes tougher, and is so firmly adherent to the pro- cesses that it is difficult to strip it off". It passes forward from the processes as the suspen-