PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 493 The part played by the network (cytomitoma) and the more fluid part (cytoplasm) in these movements is not clearly understood. The pseudopodia are at first free of network; but whether the fluid is pressed out by contraction of the meshes, or whether it actively flows out, is not known. In some cells among the protozoa movements take place along some definite line, and the reticulum is arranged more or less parallel to the line of movement. Such contrac- tile processes, from their resemblance to muscles, have been termed myoids. In other protozoa the pseudopodia manifest a to-and-fro rhythmic waving movement, which may cause the cell to be moved along, or may cause the adjacent fluid to move over the cell. Such mobile processes when permanent have been called cilia. These movements are modified by the vari- ous stimuli which modify the activity of the chemical changes in the protoplasm. Thus, cooling diminishes, and finally stops them. Gentle heat increases them, but when a cer- tain temperature is reached, they are stopped. Drying and various drugs, such as chloroform, quinine, etc., also arrest the movements. Changes in the surroundings may cause either contraction or expansion, may repel or attract. When an attracting or a repelling influence, a positive or negative stimulus, acts at one side of the cell—unilateral stimulation— it may lead to movement of the cell away from it or towards it. Movements are produced by various chemical substances (chemiotaxis), or by light (phototaxis), or by electricity (galvano- taxis). If the action is towards the stimulus, it is said to be positive, if away from it negative. Chemiotaxis is the attraction or repulsion produced by one-sided application of chemical stimuli. This is well seen in the plasmodial masses of sethalium septicum which grow on tan. Oxygen and water both attract it towards them, and exercise a positive chemiotaxis. It is also seen in the streaming of the white cells of the blood to disintegrating tissues, or to various micro-organisms which have to be de- stroyed to prevent their poisoning the organism, and in the attraction exercised by the ovum vipon the male element in reproduction. Barotaxis is the effect of unilateral pressure or mechanical stimulation. Many protozoa appear quite unable to leave the solid substance —e.g. the microscope slide—with which they are in contact, the unilateral pressure seeming to cause a positive attraction in that direction. Phototaxis.—Light, which plays so important a part in directing the movements of the higher plants, also acts positively or negatively on many unicellular organisms. Thus the swarm spores of certain algse are positively attracted by moderate illumination streaming to the source of light, while they are negatively stimu- lated by strong light and stream away from it. Light also plays an important part in directing the movements of certain bacteria. Thermotaxis. — The unilateral influence of temperature is well seen in the plasmodium of Eethalium septicum which streams from cold water towards water at a temperature of about 30° C. Galvanotaxis. — As would naturally be ex- pected from its stimulating action, a current of electricity has a most powerfiil effect in directing the movements of many cells. Cer- tain infusoria when brought between the poles of a galvanic battery may be observed to stream towards the negative pole. * The effects of this unilateral stimulation are of great importance in physiology and patho- logy, since they explain the streaming of leuco- cytes to attack micro-organisms and other poisons to the animal body, and since they seem to explain many of the apparently voli- tional acts of unicellular organisms. Many of these organisms appear definitely to select certain foods, but in reality they are simply compelled towards them by this unilateral stimvilation. (B) Nucleus.—(1) Structure.—The nucleus, seen with a moderate magnifying power, appears in most cells as a well-defined circular or oval body situated towards the centi-e of the cell (Figs. 1 (c) and 2). Sometimes it is obscured by the surrounding protoplasm. It has a granular appearance, and usually one or more clear refractile bodies—the nucleoli—are seen within it. It stains deeply with many reagents of a basic reaction, such as hsematoxylin, car- mine, methylene blue, etc. In some cells the nucleus is irregular in shape, and in some it is broken up into a number of pieces, giving the cell a multi-nucleated character. It is usually composed of (a) fibres arranged in the complicated network (Fig. 2). These fibres appear to be of two kinds: (1) forming a network similar to the cytomitoma—the linin network, G ; and (2) forming generally a coarser network, the fibres of which have a special affinity for basic stains—the chromatin network, F. The chromatin substance contains a large amount of nucleic acid, and its richness in phos- phorus has been demonstrated by treating the cells with ammonium molybdate and pyrogallol, which colours parts rich in phosphorus of a brown or black tint. The chromatin fibres vary in their arrange- ment in different cells. Usually they form a network, but occasionally they are disposed as a continuous skein. In nuclei, with the former arrangement of fibres, swellings may be observed where the fibres unite with one another—the nodal swellings, or karyosomes, distinct from the nucleolus. The resting nucleus appears to be surrounded by a distinct nuclear membrane, which is, however, probably really a basket-like interlacement of the fibres at the periphery.