PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 405 of the veins of the neck; a small, feeble, and irregular pulse; urgent dyspnoea, so that the patient cannot lie down, but finds most relief in sitting up and leaning forwards over a bed-table. Symptoms.—The symptoms are partly local, due to the inflammation of the pericardium, and partly constitutional, due to a general toxsemia from the poisons evolved by the rheu- matic micro-organisms. Pain in the prtecordial region, increase in the pulse and respiration rate, dyspnoea, and rise of temperature, are symptoms well marked at the onset of acute pericarditis, and usually precede the appearance of the pericardial friction rub. In children nervous symptoms may be present in addition, such as crying out and starting in sleep, restlessness, and slight delirium on waking. In the subacute and relapsing type common in children there may be little or no pain, and very slight pyrexia and dyspnoea on exertion only; in short, the symptoms may be so slight, that the child is able to go about during the early days of an attack, or even for the greater part of its course, with disastrous ulterior results. Pronounced anaemia, the presence of rheumatic nodules, and the history of previous attacks of rheumatism, are usually distinguishing features of this class of cases. The face is usually pale, but may be flushed; the expression is anxious and distressed, and respiration is hurried. The temperature ranges between 100° and 103°, and is usually irregular ; in the insidious and subacute attacks in chil- dren it is often very little above normal, but is always somewhat irregular. There may occa- sionally be some pain or difficulty in swallowing from the proximity of the pericardium to the oesophagus, if the posterior aspect is inflamed or if there is much effusion. Dyspnoea is usually a prominent feature, and may become very severe, not only in cases of effusion, but when there is great cardiac dilatation and the pericardium is partially or wholly adherent to the heart. The patient may have to be propped up in a sitting posture, and find most comfort in leaning forward over a bed-board. Vomiting is sometimes present and is always a serious symptom ; not infrequently it ushers in the closing scene. Nervous symptoms may predominate in children, and, as pointed out by Sturges, there may be great restlessness, with delirium and sleeplessness. In exceptional cases there may be pronounced mental change, a condition of maniacal excitement or of melancholia, some- times with hallucinations. The former I have seen twice in a case of pericarditis complicated by severe chorea, the latter once in a case of relapsing pericarditis. Both were in children, and both proved fatal. In the later stages the patient may some- times lapse into a semicomatose state, passing- motions and urine into the bed. Course of the Disease and Terminations.—The disease, as a rule, runs a somewhat different course in adults and in children. In the former it is usually acute and is ushered in by severe symptoms. In the latter it is frequently sub- acute and insidious in its onset, and results very frequently, after a protracted course, in the formation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium. In a favourable case, though the early symp- toms may be severe, the friction rub persists for a few days only; the area of cardiac dulness does not become very greatly enlarged, rapidly decreases to normal again when the friction rub has disappeared, and convalescence is soon established. Very severe attacks may prove fatal within a few days after the pericardial rub is first heard, but this is unusual unless there is some ad- ditional complication such as chorea or pneu- monia. In such cases there is usually rapid and extreme enlargement of the area of cardiac dulness, severe dyspnoea, high temperature, rapid pulse, and sometimes vomiting. In two such cases of which I have seen the post-mortem examination there was very little excess of peri- cardial fluid, only a little lymph on the surface of the pericardium (which was intensely con- gested), but the dilatation of the heart was ex- treme. Possibly in such cases the severity of the inflammation may cause paresis of the cardiac muscle analogous to that which occurs in the muscular coats of the intestine in peritonitis. In the subacute type of pericarditis common in rheumatic children, as first pointed out by Cheadle, the onset is usually insidious and the symptoms are ill marked, and when the child is first brought to a hospital by its parents a peri- cardial rub and mitral systolic murmur may already be present. The friction rub persists on and ofi^ for some days or weeks, the area of cardiac dulness becomes greatly enlarged, and never regains its normal limits, and eventually, when the pericardial rub disappears, the peri- cardium is left partially or universally adherent to the heart. After convalescence is established the child frequently remains pale, anaemic, thin, and short of breath, and the heart hampered by adhesions, and with its muscle damaged by inflammation, remains permanently crippled. If the inflammation is very protracted, or repeated attacks come in close succession, the cardiac dilatation may become extreme, the liver enlarged, and dropsy supervene, the patient eventually dying with all the symptoms of right ventricle failure. It must be borne in mind that the myocardium is almost invariably, and the valves are frequently, attacked by the inflammatory process of which pericarditis is a part, and that the viltimate issue of the illness and prognosis for the future largely depends on the degree in which the cardiac muscle is damaged. For, not only does the dilatation of