417 PERITONEUM the fluid. Hypertonic solutions become at least isotonic, generally hypotonic before absorption. Robinson sums up the functions of the peritoneum under the following headings. He says it is of use— I. To prevent friction of moving viscera. II. To anchor and support the viscera in their proper relations to each other. III. To prevent invasion of infectious micro- organisms by throwing out barriers of exudation to protect wounded viscera. IV. To furnish the viscera with an elastic covering. V. To absorb and secrete fluid. III. Pathology General Remarks.—The realm of non-bacterial peritonitis is daily becoming more restricted, and it is now believed that the vast majority of cases of peritonitis, if not all, are due to pathogenic bacteria. Since, however, it is now known that micro-organisms only act by virtue of their chemical products, the distinction between chemical and bacterial infection need not be so sharply defined as was once thought necessary. Cold probably never acts as an actual excitant, but only as a predisposing agent, by lowering the power of resistance of the tissues. The susceptibility of the peritoneum varies in dif- ferent animals within wide limits, and probably it also varies to some extent in man, some people being able to deal successfully with doses of poison to which others would succumb. Certain parts of the membrane are much more sensitive than others. The area of the small intestine is much more vulnerable than that over the colon, while the parietal peri- toneum, compared with the visceral, is remark- ably tolerant. The power of resistance possessed by the outer parietal peritoneum is illustrated by cases of vertebral abscess, in which the pus is in contact with it for long periods of time without inducing peritonitis or leading to toxfemia from absorption. A chronically inflamed peritoneum appears to be somewhat more tolerant of a slight degree of sepsis than a healthy one. It stands opera- tion better. To a certain extent it has become immune. The pelvic peritoneum in women is thicker and more opaque than in men. The mesentery in the adult is less translucent than in the child. The reason is probably the same in both cases. The peritoneum represents a territory in which there is a struggle throughout life between invading micro-organisms and the leucocytes which guard it, and which can be called up at any moment for purposes of defence. The records of past struggles are written in the changes which occur in the membrane as age advances, and in those which are found in parts specially liable to damage, like the pelvic peritoneum in women. VOL. VII The peritoneum itself has considerable power of resistance, depending chiefly upon its absorp- tive apparatus. Experiments show that in health it can deal successfully with fairly large injections of pyogenic organisms, provided that no nutrient material is introduced with them. The bacteria are encapsuled or absorbed. If, however, blood serum or lymph is present as well, the bacteria multiply and septicaemia follows. The practical indication of this observation is the importance of keeping the peritoneal cavity as dry as possible during operations. Hands and instruments, after purification, should be thoroughly dried, and when the operation is finished all moisture and blood-clot should be removed, while in peritonitis, drainage rather than irrigation should be the line of treatment. Peritonitis always begins locally. It is rather more common in women than in men, the " points of attack" varying, however, in the two sexes. In women pelvic troubles and inflammation about the gall-bladder increase the total number of cases, while in men appendicitis and hernia more often occur. In both sexes perforation of the gastro-intestinal track is a comparatively common and very fatal cause. Peritonitis in its essence may be considered a salutary process. If it did not occur, the simplest laparotomy would almost inevitably prove fatal. A single micro-organism intro- duced into the abdominal cavity would find itself in a haven of comfort, in which, undis- turbed, it could multiply and invade the body. As it is, the organisms which reach the peri- toneal membrane are at once surrounded by millions of leucocytes, which pour from its vessels and attempt to engulf them. It is by the reaction of the tissues alone that the patient can be saved. If he dies, his symptoms are those of septicaemia, not of inflammation. He dies of the poisons elaborated by absorbed micro-organisms, not of local inflammation, as the term "death from peritonitis" implies. Death takes place because peritonitis fails to save life. It is always the sepsis which kills, while the inflammation is the attempt, and often a successful attempt, to save life. In the most rapidly fatal cases, where the patient dies with symptoms of profound poisoning, it is visual to find nothing, or next to nothing, visibly wrong with the peritoneum at the post-mortem ex- amination. The leucocytes in these cases have been at once overpowered, and no traces are left after death of their ineffectual struggle. Morbid Anatomy.—Tympanitis occurs early from reflex paralysis of the bowel. It is most marked in the small intestine. The distended coils are hypersemic and patchy, with a dull and lustreless surface. The injection on the walls of the intestine is most visible along lines parallel to the line of attachment of the mesentery. The distended coils of gut lie 27