224 PALATE seriously impaired, and it may die of starvation, or its physical development be impeded. The effects upon the mvicous membrane arise from dryness, produced by the abnormal ex- posure to air, and from infection. Children with cleft palate are frequently the subjects of chronic naso-pharyngeal catarrh, adenoids, and enlarged tonsils. Articulation is indistinct and laborious. The nasal twang is characteristic. Speech is affected even when the aperture in the palate is small. In adults the difficulty in swallowing has been overcome to a considerable extent, and the patient by carefully training himself may have effected a degree of improvement in his speech. Treatment of Cleft Palate.—Under this heading there have to be considered:— (1) Method of feeding infants who are the subjects of cleft palate is described under Hare-Lip. (2) Treatment of the Deformity.—Closure of the cleft by operation is the most satisfactory method. Mechanical appliances ought to be reserved for special cases, which will be referred to later. Before describing the operation for cleft palate it is well to consider the benefits to be derived from successful surgical treatment. At all ages, and even in adults, the patients are in a better condition after successful surgical interference than when no operation has been performed. Food has not the same tendency to regurgitate through the nose, taste and smell are improved, and speech is more distinct. As regards results, much depends upon care- ful attention to the essential details of the operation, iipon the width of the cleft and the arch of the palate, upon the size of its segments, the amount of tissue available for the plastic operation, and upon the age of the patient. It must, however, be borne in mind that when union takes place from end to end the results, as regards speech, are sometimes disappointing. This is the case especially when the soft palate is scanty and rigid and does not effectively shut off the naso-pharynx, and also in certain cases of imperfect development of the nasal cavities. The treatment of cleft palate does not cease with successful surgical treatment. The operation renders the patient capable of being educated to speak properly. Period for Operating.—When hare-lip and cleft palate are associated, the former ought to be closed as early as possible—vide Hare-Lip. The earlier the cleft can be closed the better the results as regards speech. Partial clefts can be closed at an earlier period than complete fissures, which require a more extensive and prolonged operation, and entail greater loss of blood and more shock. Some surgeons operate during the first few months of life, and others even as early as the fourth to fifth week. If the soft palate alone be fissured the best period on the whole is between eighteen months and two years, although sometimes in suitable cases the operation may be done before the period of first dentition; when the cleft is complete, from the third year onwards. The tendency is, however, to operate in all cases at an earlier period than was formerly the case. Age alone does not determine the date of operative interference. None the less important is the state of the child's general health, the condition of its mouth and naso-pharynx, and whether it is tractable or otherwise. Essentials for Success.—Primary union is of the first importance. This is to be attained by paring the edges of the cleft in one piece, by completely separating up muco-periosteal flaps, by the division of all tense structures, by accurate suturing, by the prevention of septic infection, and by rest of the wound as far as possible. It is also most important that the sutured soft palate should be mobile. PrelvminAxry Treatment.—The operation not being one of emergency, the surgeon is able to choose his own time for operating. The best periods of the year are spring and summer. The child ought to be under observation for some time. The possibility of its developing an infectious disease ought to be eliminated. A history of haemophilia should be inquired for. The general health must be satisfactory, and no operation undertaken if the patient has recently recovered from any infectious disease or severe illness. The child ought to be taught to breathe through the nose. After-treatment is facilitated by accustoming the patient to take food from the side of a spoon or from a feeding-cup. The patient ought to be tractable and easily con- trolled by the nurse. It is advisable in the case of spoilt children not to have the mother with the child for any time until some days after the operation. As in all operations in the mouth, asepsis should as far as possible be aimed at. Decayed teeth must be attended to, chronic pharyngitis frequently requires treatment. The crusts are removed by bicarbonate of soda, 10 gr. to gj., and then boro-glyceride or some mild antiseptic brushed on. Adenoids and enlarged tonsils not infrequently require removal. The patient should be on a light diet for a day or two before the operation, and the usual preliminaries as regards the stomach and bowels attended to prior to the administration of the anajsthetic. An enema of beef-tea and brandy may be given just before the operation. instruments. — Special gags, such as Smith's, Whitehead's, and other forms, are frequently used. The writer prefers any simple gag which will effectually keep the mouth open ; an assist- ant depresses the tongue with a spatula. The following instruments are necessary : bistouries,