476 PHENETIDINE Phenetidine. — The base (CgHuNO) from which phenacetin (acetphenetidine) is derived by substitution ; the citrate of pheneti- dine is an antipyretic and sedative drug. PhenOCOll. — A substance, with the formula CjqH^^N202, resembling phenacetin; the hydrochlorate of phenocoU has an anti- pyretic action. Phenol. See Carbolic Acid. See also Analgesics and Anodynes {PhenoV); F^ces {Chemical Examination, Aromatic S%ijhstances); Toxicology {Carbolic Acid); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Aromatic Substances). Phenonnenon.—In medicine, the term phenomenon is given to any striking or unusual symptom or sign, e.g. Cheyne-Stokes phenomenon, the patellar phenomenon, etc.; in obstetrics, the phenomena of labour are the recognisable events of the various stages of the confinement, such as dilatation of the os uteri, escape of the fore- waters, etc. Phenyl. — Phenyl is the radicle C^H., which enters into the composition of so many chemical substances; thus phenol is phenyl alcohol (CgHjOH), aniline is phenylamine (Cf;H5NH2), salol is phenylsalicylate (CqH^OH. CO.OCgH:;), and benzene is phenylhydride (CfiH,). Phenyl hydrazi ne. — Hydrazine (HoN.NHg) forms with phenyl the compound known as phenylhydrazine (CgH^HN.NHg), whose hydrochlorate is used as a test for sugar. See Glycosuria {Detection); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Carbohydrates, Monosaccharids, Osazones); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars, Tests). Philippine Itch. — This name was given to a mild form of smallpox, which oc- curred recently in the United States, in the belief that it was a new form of disease. Philoenia.—Addiction to wine (Gr. oivos, wine). Phi lorn imesia.—The desire to mimic people and things ; often a symptom of insanity. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms. Phi It rum. — In anatomy, this term is applied to the middle part (hollow) of the upper lip. Phimosis. See Phymosis. Phlebectasis.—Abnormal dilatation of a vein (Gr. c^Aei/^, a vein); a varicosity. See Capillaries, Diseases op {Phlebectosis); Veins, Diseases of (Varicose Veins). Phlebectomy. — Excision of a vein, e.g. in the case of varix. Phlebitis.—Inflammation of a vein. See Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis). See also Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Intracranial Complications, Thrombosis of Lateral Sinus); Gout {Irregular, Circulatory System, Phlebitis); Liver, Diseases of {Pylephlebitis, Portal Throm- bosis) ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Puerperal In- fection, Phlegmasia Alba Dolens); Rheumatism, Acute {Morbid Anatomy, Symptoms, Phlebitis); Syphilis {Tertiary, Vascular System., Veins). PhlebO-. — In compound words phlebo- (Gr. ^Ae'i//, a vein) means relating to a vein; e.g. phlebograph (an instrument for recording venous pulsation), phlebology (the physiology and anatomy of the veins), phlebometritis (inflam- mation of the veins of the uterus), phleborrhexis (rupture of a vein), and phlebostenosis (vmdue contraction of a vein). PhlebolithS. — Calcareous deposits in veins; vein-stones. See Veins, Diseases of {Thrombosis, Pathology, Calcification). PhlebOSClerOSiS.—Abnormal thicken- ing and hardness of the wall of a vein. See Veins, Diseases op {Thrombosis, Varicose Veins). Phlebothrombosis. See Veins, Diseases of {Thrombosis). See also Puerperium, Pathology {Pyaimia, Morbid Anatomy). Phlebotomy. — Bleeding or blood-let- ting by opening a vein; venesection. See Venesection. Phledonia. — Delirium; wild talking (Gr. ^A.eSaji/, an idle talker). Phlegfm.—The " cold and moist humour " of the ancient writers, excess of which caused the apathetic constitution; now, it generally signifies the thick mucus of the nasal passages in catarrhal conditions (Gr. ^Xey/xa, Lat. pituita, mucus) ; a medicine which aids the expulsion of phlegm is called phlegmagogue. Phleg'masia.—Inflammation with fever (Gr. <j)\eyfji.a, flame, heat). Phlegrmasia Alba Dolens.—The so-called milk-leg or white leg of the puer- perium, due to inflammation or thrombosis of the veins of the limb. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Myocardium, Symptomato- logy, Thrombosis of Large Veins); Lung, Tuber- culosis of {Complications, Phlegmasia, Alba Dolens; Puerperium, Pathology of {Infection, Phlegmasia Alba Dolens); Veins, Diseases of {Thrombosis, Clinical G?-02ips). Phleg^mon.—An inflammatory process, especially when it affects the cellular tissue and leads to boil- or abscess-formation. Phlegmonous. — Of the nature of