132 NURSERY HYGIENE sterilisers, or one of the " sentinel milk steril- isers," both of which are convenient for the purpose. The milk should be quickly cooled, and stored in a cool place {see "Infant-Feeding"). The simpler the feeding-bottle the better; perhaps the best of all are those sent out with Soxhlet's sterilising apparatus, or those of a similar make. These are round bottles which stand upright, have fairly wide mouths, and will stand scalding or boiling. A narrow- mouthed bottle with flat sides does not admit of being so readily cleaned with a ring brush as the above. Fancy bottles provided with ther- mometers should be avoided. The teats should be large enough to be turned inside out and cleaned with a tooth-brush. No tube bottle should be employed. After use the bottle should be well rinsed out, all flocculi or deposit removed with the cleaner, the bottle scalded— or, better, boiled—and placed on a rack, mouth downwards, to drain. The teat should be cleaned inside and out and set to drain. On no account permit the nurse to put the teat of a ready charged feeding-bottle into her mouth to taste the food and test its temperature. Mouth muL Teeth.—The careful nurse will daily examine the infant's mouth, and note the condition of the gums and mucous membrane of the tongue and cheeks. Any accumulation of food should be cleaned away with a brush wetted with weak Condy's fluid. Infants are very liable to aphthous, parasitic, and other forms of stomatitis, and the gums become sore during dentition and spongy in scurvy. The various forms of stomatitis are due to a lowered vitality of the mucous membrane and infection with the oidium albicans and various bacteria and cocci. There is no more certain way of introducing these organisms than by vising dirty teats to the feeding-bottles, or by allowing the infant to be constantly sucking a blind teat or " comfort." The " comfort" is continually dropping out of the infant's mouth; it falls on the floor of the nursery, in the dirt of the street, or the floor of a tramcar, and is promptly re- placed in the infant's mouth. It can hardly be a matter of surprise to find that the infant sooner or later suffers from stomatitis, and in the course of time tuberculous cervical glands. The teeth require constant supervision during infancy and childhood, but unfortunately, in spite of every care, bad teeth are common enough. The good nurse or mother will see that the infant's or child's teeth and gums are cleaned daily, and will note any soreness of the gums or incipient decay of the teeth. The cleansing process may be effected with a soft rag in the case of infants, and a soft tooth-brush for older children. An alkaline antiseptic solu- tion, as, for instance, soda and thymol, or a good tooth-powder may be used. (Precipitated chalk, 4 oz.; powdered curd soap, \ oz.; carbolic acid, 20 drops ; otto of roses, 5 drops. Pedley.) Not much can be done in the way of filling carious milk teeth, except perhaps the molars, and young children are not always very tractable when on a visit to the dental surgeon; but whenever caries is discovered in any of the permanent set no time should be lost in having them attended to. Diets (see "Infant-Feeding").—During the first year of life the infant's food consists en- tirely of fluids in the form of milk or milk food. After six or seven months of age it is usual to allow some starchy food to be mixed with the milk, as, for instance, thin barley gruel, oatmeal gruel, or rusks made into a gruel with hot water. The food must be thin enough to pass through the nipple of a feeding-bottle. Healthy infants do not require either malted food or peptonised food. The mistake that mothers are apt to make during the latter half of the first year is to give too much starchy food, making the food too thick and pasty. Children so fed are apt to be overfat and constipated, and suffer per- haps from flatulence. Another mistake which is perhaps as common is to give infants more undiluted milk than they can properly digest. They pass pale, curdy, and foul-smelling stools, and have distended and rounded abdomens. After the end of the first year the feeding- bottle is gradually dispensed with, the child drink- ing out of a cup or being fed with a spoon. This change often takes some time, as the child is clumsy at first in drinking, and splutters and chokes. The staple food during the second year is milk, from one or two pints being taken in the twenty-four hours. The diet is now more varied than during the first year; thin milk puddings, bread and milk, hominy or oatmeal porridge, eggs, broth, gravy, cooked vegetables, and cooked fruit being taken. Butcher's meat may be given in small quantities only. It should be underdone and finely shredded. The same mistake is frequently made at this time as during the first year, namely, giving too much thick starchy food. Thick oatmeal porridge is heavy, and not easy to digest, and so is bread and butter in large quantities. The same may be said as regards milk. More milk is often given than the child can digest, and decomposition of the proteids takes place in the bowels, and the stools are foul and unhealthy. Five meals a day are enough, the chief meals being breakfast and dinner, and on no account allow food of any sort or fruit or sweets between meals. Let the diet be varied; avoid a one-sided diet. After the child has entered its third year and has cut all its milk teeth a still more varied diet may be allowed. Bread and milk, oatmeal or hominy porridge followed by brown bread and "bacon drip," or occasionally an egg may be given. It is a mistake to make the second course too tempting, or the bread and milk will be left but half finished. Sweets in the