413 PERITONEUM Peritoneum. Anatomy Physiology Pathology General . Morbid Anatomy Bacteriology Netv Growths . Tubercle . Malignant Disease 413 415 417 417 417 418 420 420 420 eneral Con- Appendix See also Abdomen, Injuries of (6-' siderations, Tj-aumatic Peritonitis) Vermipormis {Appendicitis, Results) ; Ascites (Causation); Broad Ligament, Diseases of (Inflammation) ; Colic (Diagnosis) ; Ectopic Gestation (Symptoms and Results) ; Fluids, Examination op Pathological (Peritoneal) ; Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts, Diseases op (Gall-Stones, Tumours of Gall-Bladder); Gastro- intestinal Disorders op Infancy (Congenital Dilatation of the Colon, Diagnosis) ; Genera- tion, Female Organs of (Ligaments of the Uterus, etc.); Gonorrheal Infection (Pelvic Peritonitis) ; Hiccough (Etiology) ; Hydatid Disease (Echinococci of Peritoneum) ; Hysteria (Disorders of Digestive Organs, Pseudo-Peri- tonitis) ; Intestines, Diseases op, Medical (Anatomical Considerations); Kidney', Surgical Affections of (Injuries of. Haemorrhage into Peritoneum) ; Lbucocytosis (hi Peritonitis) ; Liver, Diseases of (Perihepatitis) ; Liver, Tropical Abscess of ; Liver, Hydatids of ; Ovaries, Diseases op (Tumours, Ovariotomy); Ovaries, Primary Ovarian Pregnancy (Rup- ture into Peritoneum); Pancreas, Diseases op (Acute Pancreatitis, Diagnosis) ; Pelvis, H^ema- tocele and Hjematoma ; Pneumonia, Bacteri- ology of (Pneumococci in Pei'itoneum) ; Post- mortem Methods (Examination of Abdomen) ; Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Perito- neum) ; Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases op (Foetal Peritonitis); Puerpbrium, Pathology OP (Puerperal Infection, Peritonitis); Rheuma- tism, Acute (Symptoms and Course, Peritonitis); Rheumatism in Children (Symptoms, Perito- nitis) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op (Anatomy); Tetany (Associated with Perito- nitis) ; Tuberculosis (Tuberculous Peritonitis); Typhoid Fever (Complications, Peritonitis) ; Urethra, Diseases of (Gonorrhoea, Complica- tions) ; Uterus, Displacements of (Relations of Peritoneum, etc.); Uterus, Malignant Tumours OF (Extension of Disease) ; Visceral Pain. I. Anatomy The peritoneum is the delicate connective tissue membrane which lines the pelvis and the ab- dominal cavity, and which is reflected from their walls over the viscera which they contain. Originally it was continuous with the pleurae and the pericardium, the whole membrane then forming the lining of the undivided body cavity or coelom. At a later stage the membrane covering the thoracic viscera is separated from the peritoneum and undergoes further specialisa- tion. It must, however, be remembered that the connection between the peritoneum and the serous sacs in the thorax remains exceedingly close throughout life. By means of their lym- phatics they are probably in direct connection with one another. Their structure is the same, the pathological changes which they undergo are allied, and their broad anatomical arrange- ment is identical. Their anatomical similarity might at first sight be overlooked as it is obscured by the complexity of the peritoneum, which depends upon its huge area of surface and the number of organs with which it comes into relation. Not only are the organs very numerous, but in the course of development many of them undergo changes in form and position which materially modify the perito- neum over them. Even with the help afforded by the study of the simpler forms of perito neum found in animals and in the embryo, it is hard to understand the anatomy in the adult, while, without the assistance so obtained, the task might well appear impossible. Like the other serous sacs, the peritoneum is composed of two parts—a parietal lining the walls of the cavity, and a visceral which is reflected over the organs. The two are continuous, and between them a potential space exists, called the peri- toneal cavity. In health there is no actual space, so that the term peritoneal " cavity" applied to the normal condition is misleading. In passing to the viscera folds of membrane are formed. They contain a delicate ground- work of connective tissue, which lies between the layers of serous membrane and affords support to the vessels and nerves which run in them. In the female the peritoneal cavity is not closed, because the Fallopian tubes open directly into it. This curious arrangement distinguishes the peritoneal from all the other serous sacs, and is of clinical and scientific interest. To the physician it explains the liability of women to develop pelvic sepsis, and it provides the histolo- gist with a unique example of the junction of a mucous with a serous membrane. For descrip- tive purposes, however, the peritoneum in the female, as well as in the male, may be con- sidered a closed sac which is tucked around and between the different organs. The primitive peritoneum is nothing more than the differentiated lining of the abdominal cavity. By the forward growth of the gut it is separated into a visceral and parietal portion. The alimentary canal is at first a median structure lying along the vertebral wall of the abdominal cavity. It then greatly increases in length, the ends being fixed so that the length- ened central part falls forward, forming a loop. As the loop pushes its way towards the front