PELVIS—PERINEUM 386 AND PELVIC FLOOR pairing the perineum, will practically cure in many slight cases, but it is clear that these measures leave unaltered the more serious factors in the causation of prolapse. We can go no further, however, in the correcting of structural alterations by operative interference, and the failure of the above-mentioned measures in all but slight cases has led operators to go beyond the pathological indications, and to try to support the movable portion of the pelvic floor by any available means. Thus we have to consider a set of operations which do not attempt to correct the causes of prolapse, but simply to substitute other means of support for the natural ones. We may men- tion episioperineorraphy, in which the edges of the labia majora are united, and elytrorraphy, in which sutures more or less completely unite the vaginal walls with one another so as to pre- vent their reversion. These measures attempt to support the uterus from below. Ventro- fixation, or the fastening of the uterus to the anterior abdominal wall above the bladder, attempts to solve the problem by suspending the movable portion of the pelvic floor from above. Two sets of operations designed for the cure of retro-deviations of the uterus are also employed along with other measures in operating for prolapse. These are vaginal- fixation, in which the anterior surface of the uterus is fixed to the anterior vaginal wall, the bladder being pushed up after a preliminary colporraphy; and those operations of which Alexander's is the type, in which the round ligaments of the uterus are shortened either by extra- or intra-peritoneal methods. That none of these measures is entirely satisfactory is shown by the fact that some operators have performed vaginal hysterectomy, removing a considerable portion of the vaginal walls, together with the uterus, as a way out of the difficulty. This procedure, of course, leaves open the canal of the hernia, which has to be closed as far as possible by uniting the broad ligaments and the remainder of the vaginal walls. The operation is sometimes justified in patients past the menopause if completed by a perineal operation almost closing the vaginal outlet. It is, of course, most suit- able if fibro-myomata are present in the uterus. It is impossible to indicate a course of action suitable for every case. It is, however, clear that the lesions present should be treated in the first instance. Thus curetting, amputation of the cervix, and anterior colporraphy {see Cystocele) are almost always indicated. Peri- neorraphy is generally advisable (see Perineal Tears), and the removal of a portion of the posterior vaginal wall is also frequently desir- able. The operations designed for the cvire of retroversion are of doubtful value in prolapse. Some operators do Alexander's operation in addition to the measures just mentioned, while others, when removing part of the anterior vaginal wall, take the opportunity of pushing up the bladder and including part of the anterior wall of the uterus in the stitches which close the vaginal wound. The fundus of the uterus should never be fastened into this position for fear of the consequences should pregnancy occur subsequently. It will probably be found that vaginal fixation and shortening of the round ligaments are of less value in prolapsus than ventro-fixation. This measure, though weak theoretically, is of practical utility, and is free from evil results should pregnancy follow, provided only that care is taken to leave the fundus free to rise. The anterior wall below the fundus is the portion of the uterus that should be sutured to the edges of the wound in the abdominal wall. The operation can be done conveniently after plastic operations on the vagina and perineum have failed, or it may be performed in bad cases as soon as uterine congestion and vaginal ulcerations have been relieved by rest in bed and local treatment. 2. Cystocele.—When the anterior vaginal wall descends with the bladder and urethra in the first stage of uterine prolapse the tumour which appears at the vulvar outlet may doubtless be termed a cystocele. This, however, is not the strict sense in which the term is accepted. For true cystocele, namely, a protrusion at the vulva of the lower and hinder portion of the bladder covered by the anterior vaginal wall, has a clinical existence apart from uterine pro- lapse or descent of the whole movable portion of the pelvic floor. In short, prolapse cannot occur without cystocele of a kind, but true cystocele can occur without prolapse. The cause of the condition is undue laxity in the connections between the bladder and the uterus and adjoining sutures, combined with failure in its supporting function of the lower margin of the sacral segment, due to tearing of the perineum. The diagnosis is made by bimanual examination and the use of the sound in the bladder. The uterus and fundus of the bladder occupy their usual position, the lower portion of the bladder being pouched downward and backward. The main symptom is difficulty in completely emptying the bladder, with cystitis as a secondary result, especially common in the senile form. A ring pessary with diaphragm, or a Hodge pessary with transverse bars, may relieve the patient of all difficulty. A perineor- raphy may be necessary in order to make it possible to wear the instrument. If, however, any operative treatment be adopted, it is advis- able to perform an anterior colporraphy which will render an instrument needless. There are many ways of doing the operation. It must be remembered, whatever method is chosen, that the anterior vaginal wall is both longer and wider than it should be, and that it must, there- fore, be shortened as well as narrowed. A useful