PERITONEUM 421 the endothelial cells of the surface of the mem- brane and of the lymphatics. Microscopically, endotheliomata are characterised by nests or clusters of endothelial cells arranged in a fibrous matrix following the course of the lymphatics. Secondary malignant peritonitis is compara- tively common, arising both by extension and metastasis. The disease may start from any of the abdominal organs, but it is most common in connection with cancer of the stomach or ovaries. Discrete nodular masses of growth are found scattered over its surface; there is often much induration and rolling of the omentum, which forms a palpable mass in the hypochondrium as in tubercular peritonitis. In both primary and secondary carcinoma there is usually some blood-stained exudation in the peritoneal cavity. Sarcoma. — Retroperitoneal sarcoma cannot clinically be distinguished from malignant dis- ease affecting the peritoneum itself, and as there is structural continuity between the peritoneum and the subjacent tissues, it is well not to draw too fine a line of distinction. Sarcoma may originate in the folds of the mesentery and omentum as well as from the retro-peritoneal tissue. Besides sarcoma, various other mesoblastic tumours originate in the retroperitoneal tissues behind the peritoneum, and involve the peri- toneum secondarily—ex. lipomata, fibromata, angiomata, besides various kinds of cysts, in- cluding hydatids. Cysts in the mesentery may be multiple and of small size, as in a specimen at the Royal Free Hospital Museum, or they may be single and large. Inflammation around the foramen of Winslow may obliterate the opening and lead to cystic distension of the lesser sac. Peritoneum — Acute Perito- nitis, General. Etiology . 421 Symptoms— The Mode of Onset . 422 Shock ..... . 423 Tenderness .... . 423 Vomiting, etc. .... . 424 Meteor ism .... . 424 Temperature .... . 424 Method op Examination . 424 Clinical Varieties— Peritonitis Fulminans . 425 Latent or Masked Peritonitis . 425 Peritonitis of Neiv-born Child . . 425 Peritonitis in Erysipelas . . 425 Peritonitis in Acute Specific Fevers . 425 Peritonitis in Rheumatism . 425 Peritonitis in Bright's Disease . . 425 Idiopathic Peritonitis . 425 Diagnosis ..... . 425 Treatment— Indications for Operation . , . 426 Laparotomy, Flushing, and Drainage 426 Rapid Laparotomy tvith Drainage . 428 Laparotomy with Local Anaesthesia . 428 After-Treatment . . . . .428 The Use op Opium .... 428 Non-operative Treatment . . . 428 Acute Localised Peritonitis . . 429 Diagnosis and Treatment . . .429 Etiology.—This has already been dealt with to a large extent. It is important, however, to mention the actual way in which the bacteria enter the peritoneal cavity. 1. Wounds. (a) Penetrating wounds of the abdominal wall with or without injury to viscera. (b) Injury to the viscera without any wound of the abdominal wall. 2. Perforation by a foreign body. (a) Those formed in the body—such as gall-stones, enteroliths, etc. (b) Those taken in by the mouth. 3. Operations on the abdomen. 4. Internal strangulations, including volvulus, intussusception, and internal herniae. 5. Extension from an inflamed organ, espe- cially intestine or vermiform appendix. 6. Extension from a local abscess, of which the most common forms are suppurative ap- pendicitis and suppurative salpingitis. 7. Perforation of hollow viscera, as in gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer, typhoid ulcer, etc. Of these causes, peritonitis following surgical operations vipon the abdomen is becoming much rarer than formerly owing to improvements in operative technique. By far the most common cause in both sexes is appendicitis. Symptoms. — When we consider the great variety of causes of acute peritonitis it is not surprising that the symptoms vary exceedingly in different cases. Sometimes we are con- fronted with a patient whose appearance suggests typical surgical shock ; in another case the local evidences of peritonitis are at once obvious ; in yet a third the symptoms generally may be so masked that the most experienced clinician may miss the fact that the central feature of the case is peritonitis. There is no definite line of demarcation between those cases which die within twenty-four hours with symptoms of, or resembling, surgical shock, and those in which the peritoneal symptoms form so prominent a feature that attention may be withdrawn from the fact that the patient is also suifering from the effects of general septic poisoning. There is a large number of cases in which the symptoms point to an inflammation of the general peritoneal cavity, but in such, after two or three days, all the general symptoms subside, leaving only the evidence of local mischief, which is usually in the region of the appendix.