PAMPINIFORM 240 Pampiniform. —Tendril-like; having the curled form of a vine tendril (Lat. pampinus, a vine shoot); e.g. the pampiniform plexus of veins in association with the testis in the male and lying in the broad ligament of the female. Pa.mpleg'ia..—General paralysis (Gr. Tras, all, Trkyjyrj, stroke). Pan-.—In compound words ^ww- (Gr. ttSs, all) signifies fully, wholly, or altogether; e.g. panblastic (originating from all the germinal layers), pangermism (the doctrine which attri- butes all disease to germs), panhidrosis (general perspiration), jmn-nenritis (multiple neuritis), 2)anotitis (inflammation of the internal and middle ear), etc. Panacea.—A universal remedy or cure- all (Gr. iravaKrjs, all-healing). Panada.—Bread boiled and soaked in water (Lat. p)anis, bread) and flavoured with nutmeg, etc. Panaris. — Paronychia. See Syphilis {Secondary, Paronychia). Panarthritis.—Inflammation of all the structures of a joint. See Joints, Diseases of {Arthritis). Panax.—A genus of araliaceous plants, supposed to have all-healing qualities {irava^, all-healing); ginseng, the root of a species of Panax or Aralia, used in China as a diuretic and diaphoretic. Pan Closet. — A form of water-closet, now generally condemned as insanitary. See Sewage and Drainage (Water-Closets). Pancreas. Physiology of . . . 240 Diseases of ..... . 245 Physiology Histology and Development . . . 240 Chemistry of the Gland . . . 240 Chemistry of the Pancreatic Juice . 241 Effects Produced on Digestion and Absorption by Obstruction of the Duct or Excision of the Gland . 242 Effects op Complete and Partial Re- moval OF the Gland on General Metabolism ..... 243 Theories with Regard to the Cause OF Pancreatic Diabetes. . . 244 See also Children, Development of {Glandu- lar Organs, Pancreas); Digestion and Meta- bolism {Pancreatic Secretion, Enzymes); Embry- ology ; Intestines, Diseases of {Physiological Considerations, Pancreas); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Pancreas, Hormones). The pancreas is a compound tubular or tubulo- acinar gland. The main duct or duct of Wirsung and its larger branches are lined by columnar epithelium, which is 13 to 18 /x high in the large divisions, and becomes lower (5 to 7 fjL) in the smaller or interlobular branches. External to the epithelium lies elastic fibrous tissue, containing blood - vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The latter is continued into the glandular substance of the pancreas, subdivid- ing it into lobes and lobules. The interlobular ducts end in " intermediate pieces " or ductules lined by long (12 /x), flattened (about 2 to 3 m. in height) epithelial cells. These ductules sub- divide repeatedly within the lobule before they terminate in the secretory or glandular subules. At their junction with the secretory tubules their lining epithelium is in some parts con- tinued a longer or shoi'ter distance into the interior of the secretory tubules, thus forming an epithelial layer internal to the glandular epithelium proper. In consequence of their position they have been described by Langerhans as the centro-acinar cells. In stained prepara- tions they may be readily distinguished from the true secretory cells by their shape and the characters of their nuclei, which are ellipsoidal and poor in chromatin. The true glandular tissue of the pancreas, in which the duct system terminates, consists of long, highly convoluted and branched tubules, possessing numerous lateral diverticula. The lumen of the tubules, which vary from 1 to 2 yu. in diameter, is bounded by cells having a more or less cone-like form, the blunt apex of the cone being directed towards the lumen. The form of the cells, however, varies considerably, so as to become adapted to the manifold convolutions and diverticula of the tubules. In their greatest diameter they vary in size from 7 to 19 //. Microscopical examination of the pancreas of the living rabbit shows that the protoplasm of each cell consists of two zones—an inner granular and an outer, more homogeneous zone, showing a faint longitudinal striation. During secretion the granules of the inner zone gradually undergo solution and extrusion into the lumen of the tubule. The tubules of the actively secreting glands may readily be distinguished from those of the resting gland by the fact that the base- ment membrane is thrown into folds corre- sponding in position to the subjacent cells. The outlines of the cells are sharply marked off in the actively secreting tubule, whereas in the resting tubule they are indistinct and the con- tour of the basement membrane is smooth. In preparations fixed with alcohol and stained with carmine, the outer zone is stained of a bright red, while the inner zone is only faintly stained. During hunger the granular inner zone is broad, the finely striated outer zone forming the narrow external border of the cell. During the first period of digestion the inner zone diminishes in size, the outer zone increases, and the cell, as a whole, becomes slightly smaller.