427 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL opinion in London is sti'ongly in favour of ether. With a competent chloroformist the writer con- siders that the safety of the patient during the operation and the few succeeding days is greater with chloroform than with ether. The abdomen being opened, the surgeon soon finds whether the case is a general one or not. A search is then made for the seat of origin of the trouble, the right iliac fossa being the starting-point. If the appendix is the offending organ, an incision should be made at a spot over it most convenient for its removal, and if possible the appendix is excised. Sometimes it is possible to remove the appendix through the median incision, but, as a rule, it is much more satis- factorily dealt with by two incisions. All traces of local suppuration should be flushed out, and the region carefully sponged. The part of the abdomen in the region of the appendix, especially the cavity of the pelvis, should be well flushed out with a normal saline solution of the temperature of the body. An india-rubber drainage-tube is placed in contact with the spot where the disease originated, whether appendix. Fallopian tubes, or else- where, and round this tube some iodoform gauze should be packed. The median wound should then be closed, and one or two stitches placed in the lateral incision so as to prevent prolapse of intestine, and at the same time not to interfere with eff^ective drainage. If no local focus can be found the abdominal wound may be closed, after thoroughly flushing the peritoneal cavity. This is a convenient place for discussing the question of drainage of the peritoneum. Technique of Drainage of the Peritoneum.—If a tube be inserted, say six inches from the skin down into the iliac fossa, and carefully examined at an autopsy twenty-four hours afterwards, it will be seen that the tube is surrounded by coils of intestine, which are sealed together with exudation which completely prevents the tube receiving any appreciative amount of the general peritoneal fluid. The surface of the coils sur- rounding the tube exudes the turbid serum, which fills the test-tube-like cavity. As soon as this liquid is removed by the syringe or by gauze the coils gradually exude another quantity. Unless the tube reaches directly down to a septic focus it seems to be of little use in draining the general peritoneal cavity. By leading down to a septic focus it helps to form a well-protected channel for the exit of any discharge from the suppurating tissue. On the whole, it seems that drainage tubes, whether made of glass or india-rubber, are quite useless as agents for draining the general cavity of the peritoneum, even when present in numbers, and indeed may do harm by mechanically irritating the coils of gut. We may sum up the role played by the drainage-tube by stating that its function is to obtain a channel through the coils of intestine by which some septic focus can discharge its contents to the exterior with ease. There is one exception to this rule, and that is in the case of the pelvis. Here there is naturally a tendency for fluid to collect in a definite quantity, so that a tube reaching to the bottom of the pelvis must assist in di'aining that basin. The question of draining the pelvis is a very important one, and some surgeons prefer to drain Douglas's pouch in women by an incision through the vagina—a proceeding, however, which necessitates additional shock, so important a factor in cases of acute peritonitis, and of which the necessity is doubtful if efficient drainage is secured by a tube and gauze from above. Several modes of draining the peritoneal cavity efficiently have been attempted, but not one has met with even moderate acceptance. Numerous strands of gauze, like a cat-o'-nine- tails, have been used, but I think with more damage to the intestine than good to the patient; incisions through the skin in the loins to drain the region of the colon and kidney, a region where pus does not collect to any marked extent, and many others equally futile. On the whole, therefore, we must trust to efficient re- moval of the fluid, whether serum or pus, by flushing, and by making sure that the focus of origin is effectively removed or placed in con- nection with the exterior by means of suitable drainage. One of the most disappointing features in the surgical treatment of general peritonitis is the tendency to distension of the intestine, especially of the small gut. Sometimes, after a thorough laparotomy, flushing, and drainage of the peritoneal cavity without markedly de- pressing the patient, there is the difficult com- plication of distension of the intestine to be overcome. The reasons for this distension have been already given, and it is chiefly to the late Greig Smith of Bristol that we are indebted for pointing out how very important it is to drain the contents of the alimentary tube as well as the peritoneal cavity. The difficulty, however, lies in the fact that when the intestine is para- lysed it is quite as difficult to effectively drain a long extent of tube as it is to drain a large extent of peritoneal cavity. Over and over again one is disappointed in the results of open- ing distended coils of small gut. The particular coil, say eighteen to twenty-four inches, rapidly collapses, but beyond that it is extremely difficult ! in many cases to get rid of much more disten- I sion. This difficulty is in marked contrast with the relief of distension in intestinal obstruction —those cases of intestinal obstruction in which \ there is no marked peritonitis. If the intestines are much distended one of the longest coils j should be incised, and a T-shaped glass tube inserted, with a thin collapsible india-rubber tube attached to it. Very often, after a few hours, the distended coils will begin to contract