5S3 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM but are placed at various levels above and below this point (Fig. 41). 2nd. The cerebral arcs consist of (1) the peripheral, (2) the intermediate, and (3) the upper ingoing neurons; (4) the central out- going neurons, and (5) the peripheral outgoing neurons. Zrd. The cerebellar arcs consist of (1) peri- pheral ingoing neurons; (2) the cerebellar in- going neurons; (3) the outgoing cerebellar neurons, either direct to the cord or through the cerebrum ; and (4) the peripheral outgoing neurons. 2. Mode of Action of the Neural Arcs A. Spinal Arcs in Reflex Action. — The mode of action of the spinal arcs, uncomplicated by the influence of the two higher arcs which act upon them, may best be studied by dividing the spinal cord high up so as to remove from it their modifying action. One of the simplest spinal reactions may be studied in a frog in which the brain has been destroyed. If the animal be suspended by the head, and one of the toes gently pinched, the leg is drawn up. Here an impulse is trans- mitted up from the ends of the receiving neuron in the skin to the cord, and this leads to changes in outgoing neurons which pass to the muscles of the leg to make them act in a definite manner to withdraw the leg from the source of irritation. This is a Reflex Action, an action in which, apart from any necessary implication of con- sciousness, an external stimulus leads to a definite reaction through the agency of one or more spinal arcs. The mechanism involved consists in :— 1. The special terminations of the neurons acted upon—the Receptors. 2. The Conductors — the ingoing and out- going neurons and the synapses between these. 3. The reacting organs or muscles, which may be termed the Effectors. It is convenient to deal first with the con- ductors. The Conductors.—These are (1) the ingoing neurons; (2) the synapses; (3) the outgoing neurons. The mode of action of this chain differs materially in several points from the action of single neuron fibres or groups of these which make up the nerve trunk. 1. Conduction is slower, i.e. there is a longer interval, a longer latent period, between the application of the stimulus and the resulting action. Thus the time between the application of a stimulus to a frog's foot and the drawing up of the leg is many times longer than the time which would be taken in the passage of a nerve impulse up to the cord and down again. The change takes an appreciable time to pass across the synapse. The duration of this time varies very greatly and is dependent on the strength of the stimulus and on the condition of the synapse. 2. While the latent period varies with the strength of stimulus, there is not the same correspondence between the strength of the stimulus and the extent of reaction in reflex arcs as there is in simple nerve fibres, and the extent of the reaction depends very largely upon the condition of the synapses. Thus, in a decapitated frog poisoned with strychnine the least touch produces very powerful reactions, while if ice be put on the spinal cord, very strong stimulation may call forth no response. 3. When a nerve is directly stimulated, the effect stops with the stoppage of the stimu- lus. But with reflex arcs the eff'ect may be continued as an after-discharge for some con- siderable time after the stimulus is stopped. The extent of this after-discharge varies with the strength of the stimulus and with the condition of the synapse. 4. In a nerve the smallest effective stimulus causes the passage of an impulse, and repetition of the stimulus does not increase its effect. But in reflex arcs a subminimal stimulus if repeated again and again breaks down the resistance to its passage across the synapse, and leads to a reaction; there is a summation of stimuli. 5. In a nerve rhythmic stimuli lead to results at the same rate. But rhythmic stimulation of the receptors of a reflex arc is apt to set up reflex movements of quite independent rhythm. This is well seen in the scratch reflex which may be elicited by stimulating the skin over the shoulder in a dog with the spinal cord cut across high up. At whatever rate the stimuli are applied to the skin, the scratch movement of the hind leg recurs regularly four or five times per second. 6. While a nerve conducts impulses in both directions, a reflex arc allows its passage across the synapse in one direction only from the re- ceiving to the reacting neuron. There is, as it were, a valve action. 7. Nerve fibres do not manifest fatigue, but reflex arcs readily do so, apparently through a change in the synapses, and these synapses are also much more susceptible to the influence of poisons—e.g. deficiency of oxygen or the action of such drugs as chloroform^—than are nerve fibres. 8. A nerve may be stimulated again and again at very short intervals of time. If it loses its excitability after stimulation the refractory period is very brief. Reflex arcs manifest much more prolonged refractory periods, during which it is impossible to elicit another response. This is of great importance in preventing confusion of movements. For, since a reflex act takes an appreciable time to be performed, it is of im- portance that it should be completed before another is started. Sherrington has studied this in "a spinal dog," a dog with the spinal