256 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF cause should it prove to be a gall-stone or a pancreatic calculus, or any other removable condition. In the absence of some obvious re- movable cause, it is advisable to secure efficient drainage of the infected bile and pancreatic ducts, either by cholecystotomy or cholecyst- enterostomy, preferably the latter. When the pancreatic disease is dependent on duodenal catarrh associated with ulcer of the duodenum, it may be advisable, at the same time that the bile passages are drained, to perform also a gastro-enterostomy in order to cure the original cause of the disease. Experience has taught that if the cause can be removed at an early stage, an absolute cure is possible; and though complete restoration of the damaged gland in more advanced cases cannot always be promised, yet an arrest of the morbid process may be looked for, and the remaining portion of the pancreas will be able to carry on the metabolic, even if incompletely the digestive, functions of the gland. Results.—In considering the after results of the surgical treatment of the class of cases under consideration, it is necessary to give both the immediate risks of operation and the ultimate issue of those cases that recovered. To this end letters were addressed to the friends or medical attendants of all my patients who had not recently been heard of. Of 102 operations undertaken in patients where chronic pancreatic trouble constituted the chief disease, or where it formed a serious complication of other diseases, 96*1 per cent of cases were followed by recovery, giving a mortality of 3'9 per cent. Of the four cases that died, one was a cholecystotomy undertaken in a patient very deeply jaundiced, and reduced to the last stage of exhaustion before a surgical opinion was sought, and where at autopsy a cirrhotic condition of the head of the pancreas was found. The second was a cholecyst-enter- ostomy undertaken in a deeply jaundiced patient in the presence of extensive adhesions, which, on account of the feeble condition of the subject, seemed too formidable to deal with. In this case a necropsy revealed a calculus in the pancreatic portion of the common bile-duct, occluding the opening of the pancreatic duct, which would have been discovered had the patient's condition permitted a thorough ex- ploration. A third, in a very feeble patient operated on away from home, extremely jaun- diced, and suffering from repeated rigors. Drainage was imperfectly carried out, and she died of cholpemia two weeks later. And a fourth was a choledochotomy in an aged feeble man, who died of heart failure, accelerated by intes- tinal h.Tsmorrhage, in the third week after opera- tion, when the wound had healed. In the 55 cases of catarrhal interstitial pan- creatitis, where gall-stones were found obstruct- ing the pancreatic portion of the common duct. choledochotomy was performed in 42, cholecys- totomy in 9, and cholecyst-enterostomy in 4. Of the 52 patients that recovered, 48 were living and well when last heard of; 1 is ap- parently well nine and a half years subsequent to operation, though sugar has recently been found in his urine; 1 died from cirrhosis of liver and ascites a year after, it being present and far advanced at the time of operation. Another has since died of acute bronchitis, and another from some non-specified ailment. In one case where the cause was pancreatic lithiasis, where calculi were removed both from Wirsung's and Santorini's ducts, the patient is now in very good health. In 46 cases of interstitial pancreatitis without gall-stones or other removable cause, the bile- ducts, and thus indirectly the pancreatic ducts, were drained hi 19 cases by simple cholecys- totomy, in 17 by cholecyst-enterostomy, and in 5 by separation of adhesions and thoroughly freeing the ducts. Of the 45 patients that recovered, no reply to letters was received from 6, who were well some time after operation. The rest were in good health when last heard of, with the exception of one (not drained) who has developed glycosuria some years after operation, but is otherwise well; one who shows signs of permanent damage to the pancreas by the ordinary test; and one who has ansemia, suggestive of the pernicious type. Besides the 19 cholecystotomies were 5 where the pancreatitis was associated with duodenal ulcer, and in these cases a posterior gastro- enterostomy was performed at the same time, with good results in every case. It will thus be seen that in a very large percentage of cases the removal of the cause, together with drainage of the bile-ducts, or, in the absence of a removable cause, the simple drainage of the bile-ducts alone, is an operation that may be safely recommended in suitable cases that have failed to yield to general treatment. 2. Cysts op Pancreas The term pancreatic cyst has been applied rather loosely so as to include all cysts occur- ring in the neighbourhood of the pancreas as well as true cysts of the pancreas itself. As was pointed out by Mr. Jordan Lloyd {B.M.J., 1892), many of these so-called pancreatic cysts result from an accumulation of fluid in the lesser peritoneal sac, this being especially true of tumours in the neighbourhood of the pancreas following on injury. Cysts in the transverse mesocolon and in the omentum have also been frequently included under the term pancreatic cyst, so that it is impracticable to make a satisfactory study of the subject from many of the reported cases, or to rely on the accuracy of statistical evidence. Though cysts may develop independently in the interlobular tissues of the pancreas, true