553 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM are two enlargements upon it, one in the cervical region, one in the lumbar region, and from these the nerves to the arms and legs come off. A fine central canal runs down the middle, and the two sides are almost completely separated from one another by an anterior and a posterior mesial fissure (Fig. 87). Each half is composed of a core of grey matter arranged in two processes or horns—the anterior and posterior horns (A. and P.)—which divide the white matter surrounding the grey into a posterior, a lateral, and an anterior column. In the dorsal region a lateral horn of grey matter projects into the lateral column, I.L. The grey matter on each side is joined to that of the opposite side by bands of grey matter; the anterior and posterior grey commissures, one in front of and one behind the central canal. The grey matter is composed very largely of cells and synapses of neurons supported by branching neuroglia cells. The cells of the grey matter are largest and most numerous in the anterior horn, where they constitute the cells from which the majority of nerve fibres come off. In the dorsal region a group of cells in the lateral horn, the intermedio-lateral cells, gives off visceral fibres, I.L. In the dorsal region also a set of cells lies on the mesial aspect of the posterior horn constituting the cells of Lockhart Clarke—L.C. The white substance is composed of medul- lated nerve fibres in which the neurilemmal sheath is absent. The fibres chiefly course up and down the cord, and some run in a horizontal direction:—1. The fibres of the spinal nerves; 2. Fibres passing from grey to white matter; 3. Fibres joining the two sides of the cord in front of the anterior grey commissure forming the white commissure. Functions.—The spinal cord is the great mechanism of reflex action, and the great channel of conduction between the brain and the peripheral structures. A. Reflex Functions.—If the brain of such an animal as a frog be destroyed, the animal lies prone on its belly and immovable for any length of time; but the legs tend to be drawn up alongside the body, and the muscles are in a state of slight tonic contraction very diff"erent from the flaccid condition found after destruc- tion of the cord. The study of the spinal reflexes (p. 524) has shown that the animal has the power of reflex movements with definite co- ordination of its muscles, but it has no power of balancing itself, and manifests no spon- taneous movements. These reflex functions of the cord in mammals have been very fully investigated by Sherrington in dogs and cats in which the cerebrum has been separated from the rest of the nervous system, and his results have been considered on p. 524. On sus- pending such animals in the normal hori- zontal position, with legs dependent, it is found that all four legs are in a state of tonic slight extension as they are in sup- porting the body. This he terms " decere- bration rigidity." It appears to be due to impulses passing down from the semicircular canal mechanism, which reinforce the spinal reflex arcs. That this is so is shown ;by the fact that section of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves removes the rigidity. Stimulation of definite areas of skin at once causes the animal to strike a special attitude (p. 524). Thus stimulation of the left fore paw produces the attitude of walking, which is assumed normally when that paw reaches the ground. Stimulation of the left pinna produces the attitude assumed if the animal were turning away from the stimulus (Fig. 95). The anatomical connection between the diiTerent levels of the cord involved in such reflexes has been demonstrated by Sherrington by keeping a dog in which the spinal cord is cut in the neck till all the down-going tracts below the point of section have completely degenerated so as to leave a clean slate, and then cutting the cord at a lower level when the proprio-spinal fibres connecting the diff'erent levels of the cord degenerate (see p. 557). They are chiefly situated in the lateral columns of the cord. In man the cutaneous reflexes connected with various groups of skeletal muscles are definitely associated with different levels of the cord. The reflex movement of the foot on tickling the sole is connected with the part of the cord from which the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd sacral nerves come off; the reflex of the cremaster muscle with the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd lumbar; that of the Fig. 87.—Cross section of the spinal cord throuali the second dorsal segment, to show disposition of grey and white matter. P., pos- terior liorn ; A., anterior liorn with large cells ; I.L., intermedio- lateral horn with small cells; L.C, Lockhart Clarke's column of cells; P.M. and P.L., postero-median and postero-lateral columns ; D.C., direct cerebellar tract; Asc. and Desc. Ant. Lat., ascending and descending antero-lateral or spino-ventral tracts ; B.B., basis bundles; CP?/., crossed pyramidal tract; O.Py., direct pyramidal tract. On opposite side, tracts wliich degenerate upwards are marked with horizontal lines ; tracts degenerating downwards with vertical lines. (After Bruce.)