69 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE inserted into one nostril, whilst over the other end fits a sliding tube which is either made of an odoriferous substance (such as gutta-percha), or impregnated with an odoriferous liquid. The length of the outer tube, which needs to be exposed beyond the glass tube in order that the smell may be perceived, gives a rough estimate of the amount of smell power present. (/') Character of the Seeretion from the Nose. —Discharge from the nose may be of any con- sistence, varying from a clear white serous liquid to a thick, creamy, purulent secretion; it may be more or less tinged with fresh or old blood, and present the form of hard crusts of inspissated pus. Various living creatures may occasionally be found in the secretion, such as ascarides, centipedes, earwigs, and the ova and larvte of several varieties of flies. The quantity of the discharge varies very greatly. It may escape through the anterior or posterior nares, in the latter case passing into the pharynx. It may be one or both sided. Microscopical and bacteriological examination are necessary in order to make a complete ex- amination of the secretion. Microscopically, the secretion from the nose may be found to con- tain blood, pus, mucus, epithelial scales, fungi (e.g. aspergillus fumigatus, and oidium albicans). Numerous observations have shown that, in the normal state, the vestibules swarm with bacteria. The nasal cavities always contain a greater or less quantity of microbes, but they are not nearly so numerous as might be expected (Hajek, Park, Wright, and Viollet). St. Clair Thomson and Hewlett arrived at a different con- clusion, as they only found microbes present in 20 per cent of their observations, and, according to Piaget, they are absent in the deeper parts of the nasal cavities. Klemperer, on the other hand, never found a nose free from germs, not even in its uppermost parts. The chief organisms that have hitherto been detected in the nasal cavities are, according to Viollet, as follows : ^ — Friedliinder's pneumo- bacillus, Frankel's pneumococcus, staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus et lutis, micrococcus liquefaciens albus et flavus, streptococcus pyo- genes, micrococcus cereus flavus, micrococcus tetragonus, bacillus tuberculosis, sarcina alba, lutea et aurantiaca, bacterium coli, bacillus pseudo-diphtherite, meningococcus intracellularis of Weichselbaum. The question whether the sparsity of germs is due to the action of the ciliated epithelium, to the bactericidal properties of the nasal mucus, or to phagocytosis, is one which is much debated, but belongs to the domain of the physiology of the nose. As a rule, special varieties of bacteria cannot be considered responsible for special diseases ^ Id infection respiratoire : Moyens de defense de Vorgan- isme. Paris, 1900, pp. 44 and 45. This work contains s very complete history of the literature of the subject. (Hajek and Rohrer). The chief exceptions are : (1) Tuberculous affections of the nose—bacillus tuberculosis; (2) Glanders — bacillus mallei; (3) Rhinitis diphtherica—Loffler's bacillus diph- therije ; (4) Leprosy—bacillus leprae; (5) Rhino- scleroma—Frisch's bacterium. In the following diseases two or more varieties of bacteria have been found :— 1. Simple perforating ulcer of the septum (ulcus perforans)—streptococcus pyogenes and staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. 2. Rhinitis blenorrhoica—streptococcus pyo- genes, micrococcus erysipelatosus, and gono- coccus. 3. Rhinitis pseudo - membranacca — Klebs- Lbfifler bacillus, bacilhxs pseudo-diphtherise, staphylococcus, pneumococcus. 4. Influenza-rhinitis—Pfeiffer's bacillus, pneu- mococcus, streptococcus and staphylococcus aureus. In other inflammatory diseases of the nose, such as acute and chronic rhinitis, acute and chronic inflammation of the accessory cavities, many varieties of cocci and bacilli have been found, but their relationship to these diseases has not been definitely established. According to Abel, the bacillus mucosus is always present in and may be regarded as the cause of ozsena. Chemical examination of the secretion from the nose may be necessary in order to distinguish it from cerebrospinal fluid, which may escape through that organ. The presence of reducing substances, as shown by Fehling's test, and the absence of mucin distinguish cerebro-spinal fluid (St. Clair Thomson). 2. Examination of the Interior of the Nose and Nasopharynx (a) Anterior Rhinoscopy. — Anterior rhino- scopy, or inspection of the nasal chambers from the front, requires: (1) a speculum to dilate the vestibule, or at least retract the ala; and (2) a strong light, which should be thrown into the nose by a reflector attached to the observer's forehead. The number of different specula which have been devised is very large; those most commonly used are known as Duplay's, Thudichum's, Frankel's (with fenestrated or solid blades), and Hartmann's (which has long handles, and is a modification of Kramer's ear speculum). The form I usually employ for examinations is Duplay's, as the pressure can be so accurately regulated by means of the screw ; and for operations I use Hartmann's, modified by making the blades broader and more like Duplay's. When both hands are required, which is rare, the speculum must be held by an assistant, or a self-retaining speculum be used. The illumination employed may be either sunlight or artificial light: for the latter, electi'ic light is most convenient (a 32-candle- power lamp, fitted with a bull's-eye condenser); in its absence, an argand gas-burner with a