ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 185 tected, by the obstraction it offers to the passage of light through these cavities. Pain, as a symptom of orbital new growth, is of very varying severity, and is not constantly present. The pain may be due to involvement of sensory nerves by the growth, as well as to distension of tissues. It not infrequently radiates along the first and second divisions of the fifth nerve. Tenderness on pressure is not, as a rule, noticeable. Loss of sensation over the area supplied by the first and second divisions of the trigeminal nerve is occasionally caused by pressure upon or destruction of these nerve- trunks by the growth. Tumours of the orbit but seldom lead to involvement of lymphatic glands which are accessible to examination. The explanation of this is that the lymphatics from the eyeball and the orbital tissues pass backwards through the orbit to empty into the internal maxillary glands. In cases in which the eyelids are involved, infection of superficial lymphatic glands may occur. The first to show this are the glands of the parotid region, and especially the prae-aural gland lying immediately below the zygoma and in front of the tragus. Benign orbital tumours may lead to loss of sight and paralysis of sensory and motor nerves in the way already mentioned, but are seldom dangerous to life. Some varieties, e.g. osteo- mata, may endanger life by encroachment on the cranial cavity through the roof of the orbit. Malignant tumours of the orbit are frequently fatal, death resulting from extension of the growth to the base of the brain, or by metastatic deposits in vital organs. Solid Orbital Tumours.—Of tumours which can be considered under this heading, the sarco- mata are by far the most common. All kinds are met with, but the most frequent are the round-celled and spindle-celled varieties, while not a few have the histological characters of fibro-sarcoma. Myxo-sarcoma, cylindroma, and endothelioma also occur, though less commonly. Melano-sarcoma of the orbit is rarely met with, and is probably always secondary to tumour of the uveal tract or of the skin of the eyelids, but cases considered primary have been recorded. Round-celled sarcomata are most common in young subjects, and spindle-celled tumours in those over forty years of age. Fibro-sarcoma is occasionally met with in young children. Primary sarcoma of the orbit may originate in the bone or periosteum, in the connective tissue or muscles, in the lacrymal gland, or in the sheath of the optic nerve. These tumours are usually hard, with a smooth but often nodular surface ; they are fairly sharply defined, and are not infrequently encapsuled. When very vascular, they are more or less compressible, and occasionally pulsation can be detected. Puncture of such a growth allows the escape of a yellowish or sanguineous fluid, which may lead to the faulty diagnosis of a cystic growth. A very myxomatous tumour may give ill-defined fluctuation on palpation. If growing from the periosteum the tumour is fixed, but when spring- ing from other tissues it is usually slightly movable. Sarcoma of the orbit is always malignant, although there are wide variations in the rate of growth, the readiness with which the tumour invades surrounding structures, and its liability to recur. The prognosis is unfavourable, but more decidedly so if the neoplasm has extended to the orbit from one of the neighbouring sin- uses. Local recurrence and metastasis are, un- fortunately, common. Carcinoma of the orbit, when primary, origi- nates in the lacrymal gland, and is the glandular variety,' or adeno-carcinoma. Cancer originat- ing in the skin of the eyelids, in the conjunctiva, or in the nasal passages, may extend deeply into the orbit and form a large tumour. When the lacrymal gland is the seat of disease, the tumour can be felt beneath the rim of the orbit. It is very hard and almost immovable. Its growth is not rapid, and it extends backwards into the orbit as well as anteriorly. This variety of carcinoma is met with in young adults as well as in the aged. The prognosis is very gloomy; local recurrence is frequent, and ex- tension to neighbouring vital structures or metastasis in distant ones is not uncommon. The remaining solid tumours of the orbit are non-malignant. Osteoma of the orbit occurs in two forms : in one, termed exostosis, the growth assumes the form of a distinct tumour; in the other, hyperostosis, there is a widespread hyper- plasia of the bone, but no definite tumour. Exostosis is not only the most common variety of bony tumour of the orbit, but is also more frequent than exostosis of other parts of the skull. The tumour may arise from the orbital wall, or, springing from one of the neighbouring sinuses, especially the frontal, may grow through its wall into the cavity of the orbit. The favourite site of these tumours is the roof or nasal wall of the orbit, but they occasionally spring from the floor, and more rarely from the outer wall. Their greater frequency at the nasal and upper part is probably explained by the large proportion which originate in the frontal and ethmoidal siniises. An exostosis may consist of either spongy or compact bone. The latter form is much more frequent, and the density and hardness of the bone are such that the growth is known as an ivory exostosis. Spongy exostosis, and others composed of bony and cartilaginous tissue are also met with. Panas states that the tumours which arise in the orbit are more frequently of the cancellous variety, and show more tendency to superficial expansion than do the ivory exostosis. Orbital exostosis is generally unilateral, but examples of bilateral and symmetrical growths have been