242 PANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY chemistry of the gland and its secretions, together with a more complete account of its influence on general metabolism, forms the contents of the remainder of this article. The pancreas of the human subject contains about 74-53 per cent of water, 24'57 per cent of organic, and 0"95 per cent of inorganic solids. The chief organic solids are albumin, globulin, nucleoproteid, and the enzymes found also in the external secretion. Leucin, tyrosin, and the purin bases—xanthin, hypoxanthin, guanin, and adenin—are the chief nitrogenous extrac- tives. Lactic acid, volatile fatty acids, neutral fats, and inosite, are the chief non-nitrogenous extractives. The most characteristic proteid constituent, the nucleoproteid a obtained by Hammarsten from the pancreas of the ox, is soluble in water and dilute alkalies, precipitated from its solution by dilute acetic acid, and possesses a powerful proteolytic action. On heating its solution, nucleoproteid a splits up into a coagulated albumin and a nucleoproteid /3, containing 4-48 per cent phosphorus. The latter is soluble in water and dilute alkalies, and precipitable by the addition of dilute acetic acid. On digestion with pepsin in acid solution nucleoproteid /3 yields, amongst other products, a nuclein from which Bang prepared a nucleic acid—guanylic acid—with marked differences from the other known nucleic acids. It is sohxble in water and dilute alkalies, and pre- cipitable by dilute acetic acid as well as by dilute mineral acids. While the normal relation of nitrogen to phosphorus in nucleic acid is 3:1, in guanylic acid the relation is 5 : L The nucleic acid prepared from the nucleoproteid of the pancreas has received the name guanylic acid, because only one purin base, guanin, has as yet been obtained from it. Amongst the products of its decomposition is a pentose which appears sometimes to be present in the urine in cases of pancreatic disease, and whose presence there may in the future be useful as an aid to differential diagnosis. In 64 out of 80 cases of diabetes in the human subject, Kiilz found a pentose present in the urine. The results of Jolles indicate that a nucleoproteid yielding pentose on heating with dilute acids occurs in the urine in some cases of pancreatic disease. After saturating with magnesium sulphate a urine from which he had heen previously able to prepare an osazone, Jolles found that the filtrate yielded no osazone ; while the precipitate, which contained phosphorus in organic combina- tion, after being heated with a dilute mineral acid, yielded a solution from which a pentosa- zone could be prepared. The external secretion of the pancreas may be best obtained in a pure state from an animal having a permanent fistula made by Pawlow's method. It is a clear, colourless, odourless, and alkaline fluid, containing, along with coagulable proteid, four enzymes, a proteolytic, trypsin, a fat-splitting, steapsin, an amylolytic, amylopsin, and a milk-curdling ferment. In addition to the above, it contains leucin, tyrosin, and small quantities of fats and soaps. The chief mineral constituents are chlorides of the alkalies, espe- cially sodium chloride, alkaline carbonates and phosphates, as well as small quantities of calcium, magnesium, and iron. The composition of the juice varies considerably, according to the nature of the diet. Any variation in the relative pro- portions of proteid, carbohydrate, and fat in the diet is followed by a corresponding variation in the relative proportions of the enzymes necessary for their digestion. Ligature or obstruction of the pancreatic duct leads to a diminution of the digestion and ab- sorption of the various food-stuffs without any direct influence on general metabolism ; while complete excision of the gland produces, in addi- tion to these eff"ects on digestion and absorption, the condition known as pancreatic diabetes. With regard to the effects of removal of the pancreatic juice from the intestine on the digestion of proteids, carbohydrates, and fats, the results of different observers vary con- siderably ; 18 to 80 per cent of the proteids of the food, and about 50 per cent of the carbo- hydrate, when given as polysaccharides of glucose, are stated to be absorbed. Fat, except in the form of the fat in milk, is not absorbed. Harley states that dogs are in some cases only able to absorb 4 per cent of the fat of milk, while Minkowski found that 28 to 53 per cent was absorbed. Probably the difference in the observations of Harley and Minkowski is due, in part at least, to variations in the extent of bacterial decomposition occurring in the intes- tines of the dogs examined. After complete excision of the pancreas in dogs a diabetes of the severest type invariably follows. Extirpation of the pancreas produces the same effect on cats. In rabbits, extirpation is rendered almost impossible by the anatomical relations of the gland, and experiments in this direction have led to doubtful results. Min- kowski succeeded in almost completely excising the pancreas of a pig, and found that a diabetes of medium severity followed. So far as re- searches on birds have been carried out, it appears that in birds of prey diabetes follows excision of the pancreas, whereas in geese and pigeons Minkowski's experiments led to negative results. More recently Kausch has succeeded in producing diabetes in geese and ducks by excision of the pancreas. After excision of the pancreas in frogs no sugar appears in the urine until some time —usually five days—after the operation. The following description refers mainly to the effects produced by extirpation of the pancreas in dogs. The excretion of sugar does not commence innnediately after the operation. In the ma- jority of cases only traces up to 1 per cent are