143 OBESITY Thyroid extract and thyrocol, which professes to be the active principle of the thyroid gland, have been put forward as most efficient agents in removing superfluous fat. Opinion is much divided on this matter. Some experienced observers think them dan- gerous ; others think them valuable in carefully selected cases. Others have found them useless, and think they should be reserved for such cases as do not yield to dietetic treatment, and that then they should be given with great caution because of personal idiosyncrasies. Their effects seem to be only temporary. It is certain that they cannot safely be substituted for dietetic treatment, nor should they be used as a concession to patients who resent a too strict control of their habits. Toxic effects re- sulting from this treatment are reported in the Brit. Med. Journ., May 25, 1901, p. 1315. Treatment by mineral waters at such spas as Carlsbad, Marienbad, Kissingen, Brides-les-Bains, Tarasp, and certain others, is popular, and we think it a good way of beginning dietetic treatment in the plethoric, but it is only of temporary value unless supplemented and re- inforced by regular treatment, by diet, and exercise afterwards. Obesity is essentially a dietetic disease, and it is only by dietetic measures that it can be cured. What these measures should be must depend on the application of general physiological prin- ciples to the special circumstances of individual cases. Adiposis Dolorosa.—In 1892 Dr. Dercum pre- sented to the New York Neurological Association the histories and photographs of three cases of an affection which he proposed to term adiposis dolorosa, a disease which he considered had not been previously recognised. He has subse- quently described this affection in the Reference Handhooh of the Medical Sciences (Supplement). A case has also been reported in the Brit. Med. Journ., by Dr. Hale White (December 2, 1899). The cases of this disease therein referred to differ entirely from ordinary cases of lipomatosis, and present nervous symptoms which are re- garded as possessing a special significance. One of the distinguishing characters of these cases is that the swollen and fatty infiltrated tissue makes its appearance in a very singular manner. The soft nodules are at first deposited in one spot, or sometimes in corresponding spots in both arms or in both legs. For a time this deposit is limited to the original areas, but later on it appears elsewhere and may spread ex- tensively. Some regions may, however, remain permanently free from invasion. In one case the deposit appeared first in both upper arms, then on the back, then on the inner aspect of the right knee, then (some months later) on the corresponding aspect of the left knee, and still later on in various other situations. But the legs below the knees remained per- manently free, and the thighs and buttocks were but little affected. In another case the swelling began on the inner aspect of both knees, and gradually spread unequally over the thighs and buttocks; later on it involved the left arm, then the sides and back, and finally the entire trunk. In a third case the masses, which were distinct and separate, appeared first on the back of the neck, and at different periods spread to other parts. In this case the face, fore-arms, legs, thighs, and buttocks remained free from deposit. Another peculiarity in these cases is that the swellings are accompanied at some time or other with paiTis or other nervous symptoms. " Pains, shooting, burning, or stabbing in character, were present in all these cases at various times in their histories." Tenderness over the nerve trunks has been observed during the early or developmental period. Other nervous symptoms noted were diminished cutaneous sensibility and patches of anjesthesia, excessive debility, absence or diminution of perspiration, and headache. Other symptoms observed were haemorrhages, gastric, nasal, or uterine, and in one case well-marked purpura. Microscopic examinations of fragments of the swollen tissue removed by the Duchenne trocar showed fat cells and connective tissue in varying proportions—the latter appearing " decidedly embryonal in type." A most important fact was that in two cases on post-mortem examination the thyroid was found indurated and much infiltrated by cal- careous depqsit. Dr. Dercum points out that the thyroid should be studied in every case of obesity that reaches the post-mortem table. He concludes that these cases cannot be regarded as cases of simple obesity, nor are they cases of myxoedema—of the latter they lack the peculiar physiognomy, the spade-like hands, the infiltrated skin, the peculiar slowing of speech, etc. He thinks they are cases of "connective tissue dystrophy, a fatty metamorphosis of various stages of com- pleteness, occurring in separate regions, or, at least, unevenly distributed and associated with symptoms suggestive of an irregular and fugitive irritation of the nerve trunks, possibly a neuritis." It remains for future research to determine to what the neuritis is due—whether it is the cause of the fatty metamorphosis or only a concomi- tant, and whether the thyroid gland does not pAay some mysterious part in its causation. Obex.—The semilunar lamina (Lat. obex, a bolt or bar) which forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle of the brain in its lowest part; it overhangs the opening of the central canal, stretching across between the two clavse at the calamus scriptorius. ObfuSCation.—Mental dulness or con- fusion, or physical clouding, e.g. of the cornea.