PELVIS—HEMATOCELE AND HJEMATOMA 393 bowels is necessary. For anaemia iron is indi- cated, and the administration of potas. iodidi helps in the absorption of the effusion; this may be assisted further by the application of blisters over the seat of the lesion. Pelvotomy. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Stone in the Kidney, Treatment). PelyCOtomy. — Division of the pelvic bones in difficult labour. See Labour, Ob- stetric Operations (Symphysiotomy). Pelzer'S Method.—A method of in- ducing premature labour by injecting glycerine (1 to 2 oz.) into the cervical canal and lower part of the uterus. PemphigfOid.—Resembling pemphigus {q.v.). Pemphig'US. See also CuNjUNCTivA, Diseases of [Degenerations, Pemphigus); Der- matitis Herpetiformis {Synonyms) ; Fluids, Examination of Pathological {BuIIcb of Pem- phigus) ; Foot and Mouth Disease {Diagnosis); Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation and Trophic Disorders); Impetigo {Impetigo Contagiosa); Influenza {Effects on Different Systems, Skin); Leucocytosis {Eosinophile); Malingering (Varieties, Cutaneous); Nails, Affections of (Diseases of the Skin); New - born Infant (Pemphigus Neonatorum); Skin, Bacteriology of (Pemphigus) ; Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Pemphigus Contagiosus). Definition. — A disease characterised by a generalised eruption of vesicles and bullae, usually arising from apparently healthy skin, and always containing clear serum at first. It will in all probability be found when we begin to know something more of the etiology and pathology of the group of symptoms which we at present collect under the name of pem- phigus, that we have hitherto included several distinct diseases under a single name. Some advance was made by the separation by Tilbury Fox, and later by Duhring, of the disease now known as dermatitis herpetiformis, though the advantage here gained is not so great as it should be, owing to the fact that complete agreement does not exist as to the conception of this disease. There remain after the separation of this disease and those eruptions which are merely phases of other well-defined diseases, such as pemphigus syphiliticus and leprosus, better called bullous syphilis and leprosy (see under these diseases), five fairly distinct varieties of pemphigus:— (1) Pemphigus acutus neonatorum. (2) Pemphigus acutus malignus. (3) Pemphigus chronicus vulgaris. (4) Pemphigus foliaceus. (5) Pemphigus vegetans. In this article will also be described the disease previously known as congenital trau- matic pemphigus, but now more usually and appropriately as epidermolysis bullosa heredi- taria. (1) Pemphigus Acutus Neonatorum. — One or two cases have been recorded in which the child has been born with the eruption already developed, but more usually it appears from the third to the fourteenth day. The eruption consists entirely of round or oval bullae, which appear suddenly on previously normal skin, and are at first tense, crystal clear, and filled with a straw-coloured fluid. There is usually a very slight zone of hyper- aemia around the blebs, but this does not become marked unless the case becomes in- fected with pyogenic organisms. The younger the child the more fragile are the bullae, probably from the extreme delicacy of the horny layer. In very young children, there- fore, all the bullae occurring on parts which are subject to pressure or friction are rapidly broken, and large areas of excoriated skin result. The denuded surface, after bursting of the bulla, is red and weeping, but in un- complicated cases it becomes rapidly covered by a new horny layer. There seems to be no special site of pre- dilection for the occurrence of the bullae, and the disease usually runs its course without fever or any other disturbance of the general health in from one to eight weeks. Sometimes, how- ever, the cases are severe, and become compli- cated by intestinal catarrh, marasmus, or lung disease. Etiology and Pathology.—There seems to be little doubt that the disease is septic in its nature, but whether it is definitely contagious or not is a matter of uncertainty. In one case a woman suffering from a septic affection gave birth to a child which exhibited the eruption at birth. In another case the child developed the eruption while being suckled by its mother, who was suffering from a septic affection. Regular little epidemics of the disease have been observed to follow the practice of one physician or midwife. Cultivation from the serum of the blebs has produced a golden-yellow staphylococcus indis- tinguishable morphologically from the ordinary staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, but on inocu- lation into the skin of a healthy person it gave rise to a perfectly clear vesicle. The pathological anatomy is very simple. The bulla is produced by the elevation of the horny layer, the stratum mucosum remaining almost perfect beneath. There is a slight oedema of the true skin and exudation round the vessels, but this not a marked feature. Diagnosis.—This is usually not a matter of great difficulty, the chief eruption from which it is to be distinguished being the bullous