NUISANCES 128 stables, manufactories or trades causing offensive smells or dangerous fumes, etc. Nullipa.ra..—A woman who has not borne a child. NuinbnesS. See Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology, Ancesthesia). Nummular.—Shaped like a coin, e.g. numymdar s2mtum. See Expectoration (Pul- monary Tuberculosis, Nummules). Nunn's Corpuscles.— Large, fatty cells found occasionally in ovarian cysts; Bennett's corpuscles. Nursery Hygriene. Nursery . . . . . . .128 Nurses 129 Bathing 129 Clothing 129 Fresh Air . . . . . .130 Sleep 130 Weighing-Charts . . . .131 Milk-Supply 131 Mouth and Teeth 132 Diets 132 See also Children, Development of ; Infant- Feeding ; Milk. Infants and young children are more sensi- tive to their surroundings than individuals of maturer years; they suffer more from exposure to cold and damp, bad air, and want of cleanli- ness ; they stand in need as much as their elders of the invigorating influence of sunshine and fresh air. Indeed warmth, fresh air, and sun- light are as necessary to the well-being of infants as suitable food ; while exposure to cold, neglect, dirt, and the foul air of dingy and crowded dwellings, are important factors in producing the high infant mortality in our large cities, as well as much sickness and ill- health. Our large cities, with their murky atmo- spheres, and cold, wet climate, are anything but ideal places for infants and children, and many of the weaker ones fail to thrive under the conditions of city or town life. There seems some reason to think that as far as town dwellers are concerned, the race is steadily degenerating, and imfortunately the tendency is more and more to depopulate the country and overcrowd the cities. A healthy infancy lays the foundation for healthy after-life. Healthy infancy can only be secured by rational feeding and careful hygiene. Nursery. — Much care should be bestowed in making the nursery bright and comfort- able, as the children of the household have necessarily to spend much of their time there, when it is impossible for them to be out- side in the open air. Let the nursery face south with as open a prospect as possible; rooms facing north and east are liable to be dull and cold, and in our British climate we want to catch the sunbeams for the greater part of the year. The window space should be ample, and the windows must be made to open widely so that the room may be flushed daily with volumes of fresh air. There should be an open fire-grate of sufficient size to heat the room efficiently, and this must be protected by a fire- guard three or four feet higli to prevent acci- dents. Draughts must be avoided by placing a screen or curtain reaching to the floor be- tween the door and the fireplace. In furnish- ing a nursery it is wise to remember that sooner or later there will likely enough be an outbreak of infectious disease among the inhabitants of the nursery, and its contents will have to be turned out and disinfected or destroyed. For this reason anything luxurious or expensive is out of place. Painted walls or washable wall- papers are convenient, as it is easy to wash down the walls with some disinfectant. The furniture, cushions, blinds, curtains will require to be boiled, or stoved, or destroyed. Picture frames catch the dust, and are not easily dis- infected, whereas cheap coloured pictures taken from the illustrated papers may be varnished, and taped round their edges, and fastened to the walls with tacks. These can be replaced when torn or dirty at a small cost. But after all a child prizes more a toy in its hands than a picture on the wall; toys are cheap, and should be burnt after a visitation of infectious disease. Cork linoleum makes a cleanly surface for the floor of the nursery, as many crumbs and much food debris are apt to fall from the nursery table. The night nursery should be carefully warmed and ventilated; it is altogether wrong for an infant to spend the day in a nursery heated to 60° or 70°, and the night in a temperature of 30°-40° F. If the nursery is well warmed the bedclothes need not be heavy, and there is no excuse for covering up the infant's face with the bedclothes as is so often done. A gas fire fitted to an efficient chimney flue, so that all the products of combustion may pass off, is a cleanly and economical form of fire. On no account use a gas fire or paraffin stove without a chimney flue, and see to it that there is no down draught. The cot should be of the type known as the hospital cot, with the sides letting down for convenience in placing in the infant. Enamelled iron or wood are the best materials ; brass cots look very well when new, but they soon tarnish and require much polishing up. Cradles which swing or rock are not necessary ; there is no reason in the world why an infant any more than an adult wants " rocking" to sleep—indeed, the movement is bad, and in some induces sickness. No curtains are necessary, as care should be taken not to place the cot in a draught. A horse-hair mattress should be