83 NOSE—ACUTE INFLAMMATION is obtained by this means, yet the discharge is afterwards increased and also the soreness of the nostrils. Cushmann's menthol inhaler enables the dry vapour of the drug to be used, and can be carried about in the waistcoat pocket. Cocaine in from 4 to 10 per cent solution undoubtedly gives the very greatest relief to the nasal obstruction, and it is longer than that obtained by any other means. For this reason it has been highly recommended by some physicians, who do not hesitate to prescribe it for patients to use themselves. Many cases of the cocaine habit have been induced in this way, and those who have witnessed the terrible mental and moral effects characteristic of chronic cocaine poisoning will agree with the writer that the very greatest circumspection should be used in ordering the drug. It may be used without fear in little children where nasal obstruction prevents nursing or feeding. In such cases a few drops of a 5 per cent solution in olive or castor oil may be dropped from a pipette into each nostril five minutes before feeding-time. Nasal douches should never be used during the acute stages of nasal catarrh, but when the secretion has become muco-purulent or purulent an alkaline wash is useful, comforting, and hastens the return of the mucous membrane to its normal condition. Such a wash may be composed of potass, chlor., sod. bicarb., sod. bibor. aa §ss., sacc. alb. gj. One tea-spoonful in three-quarters of a tumblerful of lukewarm water may be used as a nasal wash night and morning. Such a lotion can be sniffed up the nostrils from a saucer or injected by means of a suitable nasal syringe. The combination of drugs used in the preparation of many favourite nasal washes may now be obtained in compound form. The depression and general malaise following a cold are best combated by tonics, such as Easton's syrup, or syrup of the hypophosphites, while the intervals between successive attacks may often be lengthened by periodically taking small doses of arsenic. Fibrinous Rhinitis Synonym : Membranous Croupous Rhinitis An inflammation of the nasal mucosa of an infectious nature characterised by the formation of a membranous exudation on their surfaces. The fibrinous membrane, usually limited to the nasal cavities, is more or less firmly adherent to the underlying mucous membrane, and its removal may cause slight hjemorrhage. Lack ^ has shown that this disease is caused by an organism identical with the true Klebs-Loeffler bacillus. The symptoms are often no more than those ^ Lack, Med.-Qhir, Trans., vol. Ixxxii. characteristic of a severe head cold associated with nasal obstruction ; in fact, the disease may be only recognised by the expulsion of mem- branous shreds from the nose. The secretion may become muco-purulent and foetid, and if unilateral will closely resemble those associated with a foreign body in the nose. Epistaxis may occur as a late symptom. Treatment. — The expulsion of membrane should be hastened by warm alkaline antiseptic sprays, but not forcibly removed. The nostrils may be swabbed out once daily with a mixture composed of lactic acid 2 parts, carbolic acid 3 parts, and glycerine 30 parts. The child should be isolated as far as possible, to avoid spread of infection. Acute Suppurative Rhinitis Purulent nasal discharges of acute onset are most commonly met with in infant life. The newly-born may be infected by a gonorrhoeal or leucorrhoeal discharge in the mother. In such cases the nasal mucosa are acutely inflamed, and the purulent acrid discharge rapidly pro- duces excoriation of the skin about the nostrils and of the upper lip. The conjunctivse are very liable to infection. Carelessness in adults may also result in the nasal mucosa being in- fected by a gonorrhceal discharge. Bosworth describes a purulent rhinitis of childhood which he regards as a precursor of atrophic rhinitis. The writer has no experience of such cases. A puriform nasal discharge of rapid onset may be met with in glanders and in the exanthemata, while the same symptom is one of the commonest evidences of congenital syphilis (vide supra). In adults, apart from gonorrhoeal infection, acute suppurative rhinitis may occasionally complicate the specific infectious diseases, and may also result from the use of septic instru- ments employed in intranasal operations. Treatment.—In addition to appropriate con- stitutional treatment the nasal cavities should be constantly cleansed by suitable antiseptic sprays, e.g. sodae bicarb, grs. 10, ac. carbol. gr. 1|, sodii chlorid. grs. 3, aquse §v. Such sprays should be always used at the body temperature. Another excellent wash is that already advised for the late stages of acute rhinitis {vide supra). 5. Chronic Inflammation of the Nose Chronic Rhinitis— Simple . . . . . .83 Hypertrophic . . . . .85 Atrophic Rhinitis— Foetid 86 Non-foetid 86 1. Chronic Rhinitis, Simple and Hypertrophic Simple chronic rhinitis may be described as a chronic inflammation of the whole of the mucous