PERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 435 being the particular parts of the intestine most often attacked. When the growth occurs at the right iliac region there appears to be no means of dis- tinguishing it from an ordinary suppurative appendicitis. It runs a much more chronic course, however, for when the abscess has been opened a fistulous tract is left, the skin becomes involved in the inflammatory process, and the diagnosis is made at last by finding that the pus contains the characteristic actinomycotic granules. When the liver is attacked the symptoms are still more obscure, for it may be impossible to detect any abscess, though there is evidence of extensive inflammatory thickening of the aff'ected organ and of the overlying peritoneum. There is usually very extensive suppuration, and the patient dies with abscesses in many of his organs, some of the pus being the result of dissemination of the actinomyces. Large doses of iodide of potassium have a very remarkable efl'ect in curing actinomycotic inflammations, and even when they do not cure the condition of the patient is greatly improved. The drug may be rapidly increased from the ordinary medicinal dose of 5 or 10 grains iintil a drachm is given three times a day. The dose is then reduced to 40 or 50 grains three times a day, which may be given for many weeks in succession. The patient actually gains in flesh and spirits so long as he is taking these large doses of potassium iodide until he ceases to need the drug. Peritoneum—Tumours. Innocent— Solid 435 Subperitoneal Inflamrtiatory Swellings 435 Fihronuita . . . . .435 Lipomata ..... 436 Myomata and Fihro-Myomata . . 436 Lymphangiomata and Hoematomata . 436 Cystic 437 Inflammatory ..... 437 Parasitic. . . . . .437 Dermoid . . . . . .437 licevi ...... 437 Malignant— Sarcomata . . .438 Endotheliomata .... 438 Carcinomata ..... 438 Peritoneal tumours can be classified, like tumours in other parts of the body, into inno- cent and malignant, each group containing solid and cystic swellings. The solid innocent tumo%trs of the peritoneum are either inflammatory, or they grow in virtue of the peritoneum being a mesoblastic structure, and they are therefore of the mesoblastic type. The inflammatory swellings are aways sub- peritoneal, and occur in the loose cellular tissue which forms the lower or subphrenic portion of the vast and complicated distribution of meso- blastic elements primarily developed round the great vessels in front of the spine, and after- wards enclosing the receptaculum chyli and its glands and branches, the great sympathetic plexuses, and the lumbar and sacral nerves. It is best known at the part where it is prolonged into the liver, as Glisson's capsule, and where a more condensed portion with an additional quantity of fat forms the capsule of the kidney. The less known portions cover the pancreas, the third part of the duodenum, and the pre- sacral region. The subperitoneal tissue is subject to many causes of inflammation, some of which have already been described under the headings of Subphrenic Abscess, Perinephric Abscess, Pelvic and Prevesical Cellulitis, and Fat Necrosis associated with disease of the pancreas. Many idiopathic forms exist which resemble the "cold abscesses" of the old pathologists. These abscesses may appear spontaneously in delicate persons with a predisposition to tubercle. They are found after slight injuries, and at the present time I have a man under my care with a lumbar abscess which is traceable to a carbuncle on the neck from which he suff"ered some two months since. Similar meta- static abscesses may occur after such operations as the radical cure of hernia, castration, or ligature of a varicocele when the surgeon from any cause has been unsuccessful in keeping the wound aseptic. The treatment in many of the slighter cases consists in fomenting the part and keeping the patient at rest for a few days, when they sub- side spontaneously ; but when suppuration has occurred the abscess should be laid open, scraped with a flushing scoop through which boracic lotion is flowing at a temperature of 110°-115° F., and afterwards sewn up to obtain union by first intention. The chief innocent peritoneal tumours are fibromata, lipomata, and a mixture of the two, or fibro-lipomata. They usually grow from the subperitoneal tissue, but they are occasionally found within the peritoneal cavity springing from the mesentery. The fibromata are of pathological rather than of surgical interest. They are usually situated on the visceral aspect of the parietal layer of the peritoneum, in the region of the liver and spleen, either as hard plates or small globular masses, and they are associated with long- standing inflammation of the hepatic and splenic capsules. A superficial examination shows that they resemble cartilage in their physical char- acters, but histology proves them to be masses of dense fibrous tissue, like that of the s^lb- stantia propria of the cornea, provided with flattened connective tissue corpuscles. They