364 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF See also Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, Se- quelce); Glosso - pharyngeal Nerve {Nerve- Supply of Parotid Gland); Gout, Irregular {Parotitis); Lymphatic System, Physiology AND Pathology {Lymphatic Glands); Mumps ; Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovariotomy, Sequelae, Parotitis); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth); Pneumonia, Clinical {Complications); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxoedema, Chemical Pathology); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequela;); Typhus Fever {Complications and Sequela;). Some knowledge of the anatomical relations of the parotid gland is necessary, as its disorders fall naturally under the three chief headings of injury, inflammation, and new growths, each of which, from the position of the gland, may involve structures of great importance. A brief description of the anatomy of the parotid, so far as it is useful to the pathology, will form, therefore, a fitting introduction to this article. Anatomy The parotid glands are the largest of the salivary glands. They lie on either side of the face, and their anatomical relations are similar. Each gland lies below and in front of the ear, stretching forwards on the outer surface of the masseter muscle, where there is often a small and detached portion, the soda parotidis. The gland is enclosed in a fossa of prismatic shape, bounded by two layers of fascia forming the parotid sheath. The inner surface of the gland frequently extends very deeply as the pharyn- geal prolongation which passes in front of and behind the styloid process towards the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. It thus passes into the subparotidean space, and along the lateral wall of the pharynx, to which it is sometimes attached, and in so doing it is in relation with the deep part of the glenoid cavity. The anterior surface of the gland is grooved externally by the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, and passes forwards between the two pterygoid muscles, whilst the posterior surface rests upon the external auditory meatus, the mastoid process, the sterno-mastoid muscles, and the posterior belly of the digastric. The deep surface of the gland has a very close relation to such important structures as the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the vagus, the glosso- pharyngeal, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves. It lies also suflficiently close to the foramen rotundum for pus to pass from the gland into the skull. The gland is traversed by the external carotid artery, which divides opposite the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. The transverse facial branch of the temporal passes out of the upper part of the gland at its anterior border. The internal maxillary and temporal veins, forming the origin of the external jugular, and a large branch connecting the external jugular vein with the internal jugular, all pass through the gland superficially to the arteries. The facial nerve runs forwards in the sub- stance of the parotid gland, crossing the external carotid artery, and dividing behind the ramus of the jaw into temporo-facial and cervico-facial branches which form the pes anserinus. The direction of the nerve is forwards and down- wards, its situation in the lower third of the gland. The auriculo-temporal branch of the in- ferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve runs upwards with the temporal artery under cover of the parotid, and joins the facial nerve by two branches behind the neck of the condyle. The gland is also supplied by branches of the great auricular nerve and by sympathetic filaments. The duct known as Stensen's or Steno's duct, emerges from the anterior border of the gland at the junction of the upper with the lower two-thirds. It passes over the masseter about a finger's breadth below the zygoma, or, more accurately, along a line drawn from the upper part of the lobule of the ear to the ala of the nose. The duct receives the secretion of the socia parotidis, and at the anterior margin of the masseter it dips through the fat of the cheek and the buccinator muscle. It then runs obliquely through the mucous membrane of the mouth, and opens at some point in a line drawn along the inside of the cheek from the second upper bicuspid to the second molar tooth. The exact point varies in different persons, but the opening is generally marked loy a papilla, and its presence can be demon- strated by the secretion of saliva, which takes place when the patient is made to suck a piece of lemon or other sialogogue. The transverse facial artery lies parallel to the duct upon the masseter muscle, and at some distance above it. A main branch of the facial nerve crosses the duct from above downwards as it lies upon the masseter. The parotid gland is enclosed in a double layer of fascia which forms the parotid sheath, and is derived from the deep cervical fascia. One layer of the fascia is attached to the parotid fossa, the other is ultimately blended with the substance of the gland. The parotid sheath, however, is not absolutely continuous, for it is pierced by the different structures which enter and leave the gland, and it is incomplete behind between the styloid process and the external pterygoid muscle. The parotid sheath, too, varies greatly in strength at different parts. It is most dense over the front of the gland, and least dense between the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. The deeper layer of the capsule is so intimately adherent to the parotid by its interlobular prolongations