PHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE 464 Occasionally anaesthesia is associated with pain- ful sensations—anaesthesia dolorosa. The treatment will depend upon the cause. When there is danger of the food entering the larynx the patient should be fed by means of an oesophageal tube passed below the cricoid cartilage. Hypercesthesia. — Abnormal sensitiveness of the j^harynx is commonly associated with tu- berculosis, gout, hysteria, alcoholism, elongated uvula, and conditions producing local conges- tion. The hyperajsthesia reveals itself when manipulations are carried out in the throat, and by the readiness with which slight irritation in this region excites reflex disturbances, e.g. coughing, retching. No treatment is called for unless the condi- tion prove a hindrance to the examination of other parts, e.g. larynx, naso-pharynx. Recourse should then be had to cocaine, ice, and the education of the patient to tolerate the in- struments. Parcesthesia.—A great variety of abnormal sensations, unaccompanied by apparent patho- logical changes, may be experienced in the pharynx. Complaint may be made of prickling, smarting, rawness, dryness, heat, swelling, of the feeling of sand, a pin, hair, bone, or ball. The subjects are usually neurotic, hypo- chondriacal, anaemic or dyspeptic, and women about the climacteric period, and those suffering from uterine affections, seem specially prone to this disorder. Frequently they imagine that the symptoms are due to cancer or phthisis. They are constantly examining their throats, and usually find "ulcers," "growths," or other non-existent alarming conditions. They de- scribe their sensations with an air of self-con- viction and elaboration of detail that bewilder one unacquainted with such ailments. Before a diagnosis of parsesthesia is warranted all the possible sources of the abnormal sensa- tions experienced must be considered. Thus, the less intelligent hospital patients frequently complain of soreness and burning in the throat when their symptoms are purely of gastric oi'igin ; recurrent attacks of " sore throat " un- accompanied by local manifestations may be found to be of a rheumatic nature ; a feeling of irritation in an apparently normal pharynx is often associated with more or less nasal ob- struction. All such conditions must be excluded. It is also necessary to take into account the general health and temperament of the patient: e.g. ansemic and neurotic patients may complain of pharyngeal irritation which is traceable to a tiny granulation; of difficulty in swallowing, which is apparently due to a slightly enlarged lingual tonsil; or of soreness in the region from which a fish bone was removed days or weeks before: all of these conditions, experience has taught us, rarely cause symptoms in healthy individuals. Keeping in view these facts, a thorough ex- amination of the upper air tract must be made to discover, if possible, a local cause. In this search too much reliance must not be placed upon the patient's opinion as to the seat of origin of the symptoms, because sensations arising in the posterior wall of the pharynx may be referred to the region of the larynx, while others springing from the lateral parts of the pharynx may be felt in the corresponding ear. The tonsillar crypts and supra-tonsillar fossa should be examined for caseous collections, the lateral and posterior pharyngeal walls for granu- lations, the base of the tongue for enlarged lymphoid masses, as well as the naso-pharynx, nose, and larynx. The sensibility of the mucous membrane may be tested, but is found, as a rule, not heightened. In the absence of any discoverable cause, a diagnosis of partesthesia is justifiable. As our knowledge of disease advances, the class of parsesthesias will gradually be reduced; in the meantime, the more careful the consideration and examination of our cases, the fewer will it be necessary to relegate to this category. An assurance that the ailment is not serious sometimes in itself causes no further heed to be paid to the symptoms. Usually, however, a prolonged course of treatment suitable to the patient's bodily and mental requirements is demanded. The affection may be very tedious, but ultimately the discomfort passes off or ceases to worry. The use of sedative paints, sprays, or lozenges affords only temporary relief ; the patient, how- ever, may be dissatisfied if local measures are not employed. The galvano-cautery is some- times useful for its psychical influence. Ab- normal sensations caused by caseous tonsillitis, granular pharyngitis, etc., are not true parses- thesias, but symptoms of these diseases which should be treated secundum artem. Neuralgia.—This affection is not often met with. The patient complains of severe remittent pain in the pharynx. Examination may fail to reveal a morbid process to account for the symptoms, or they may be traceable to an in- significant lesion. In either case the neuralgia is almost invariably the local expression of a general dyscrasia, and what has been stated in regard to the subjects of parsesthesia applies here. The treatment should be mainly directed to the correction of the constitutional disturbance. If a pharyngeal aftection is found associated with the symptoms, it should be treated ac- cording to its requirements ; if not, local sedative applications may be tried, e.g. cocaine 5 to 10 per cent, but only for a short time, menthol 10 per cent, antipyrin 30 per cent, tincture of aconite, etc. Neuroses of Motion.—Spasm.—Tonic spasm of the pharyngeal muscles is commonly observed when the mucous membrane of the throat is