222 PALATE Palate. Anatomy 222 Cleft Palate— Cause of . 223 Extent 223 Appearances 223 Effects 223 Treatment— Period for Operating 224 Essentials for Success in Operating . 224 The Operation— Preliminaries for 224 Anaesthetic 225 Steps of Operation . 225 After-Treatment 227 Complications . 227 Causes of Faihire 227 Voice Training 227 Davies Colley's Operation 228 Mechanical Treatment of Cleft Palate 229 Injuries of The Palate 229 Diseases of the Palate— l7iJlamniation, Acute 229 Infective Granulomata and their Results 230 Tubercle . 230 Syphilis . 230 Others 230 Tumours— Simple 231 Malignant 231 Congenital Deformities of THE Mouth 232 Hare-Lip 233 See also Adolescent 1t<isatsiity {Deformed Palate in); Bone, Diseases of {Syphilitic); Brain, Physiology^ of (Cranial JVerves, Innervation of Palate); Children, Clinical Examination of [Mouth and Throat, Palate); Diphtheria (Com- plications, Paralysis); Facial Nerve, Paralysis of (Symptoms); Facial Spasm (Palatal Muscles); Mental Deficiency (Cretinoid Cases, Stigmata of Degeneration); Pharynx, Examination of (Spasm and Paralysis of Palate); Physiognomy AND Expression (Palate); Syphilis (Tertiary) ; Typhoid Fever (Symptoms, Pharynx and Palate). Anatomy.—A short reference to the anatomy of the palate is necessary before entering upon the consideration of its abnormalities and diseases. The hard palate has normally the shape of a regular arch, but varies considerably in different individuals. It is composed of an osseous frame- work covered by periosteum and mucous mem- brane. The osseous portion, which consists of the two horizontal planes of the superior maxilla and of the palate bones, is roughened on its under surface for the attachment of the muco- periosteum, perforated by foramina for the transmission of its nutrient vessels, and has attached to it posteriorly the palatine apo- neurosis. It receives its blood-supply from above as well as below. The relations and component parts of the intermaxillary bone are considered under Hare-Lip. The mucous membrane of the hard palate is dense, contains numerous small glands, and is closely adherent to the periosteum. Its blood- supply is derived from two sources—the posterior FlQS. 1 and 2.—Various degrees of simple fissure of the palate. (Mason.) palatine artery, which, after emerging at the posterior palatine canal, situated internal to the last molar tooth, runs forward in a groove in the bone parallel to and about I to | of an inch internal to the alveolar border, and the naso-palatine artery, which descends through the anterior palatine canal. The terminal twigs of these vessels anastomose with each other. Nerves.—The soft palate consists of an apo- neurosis firmly attached to the posterior border of the hard palate, of fibrous tissue, of muscles, and of mucous membrane. From its side there pass ofT two folds of mucous membrane, the pillars of the fauces, the anterior of which Fia. 3.—Complete cleft palate with- Fia. 4.—Unusual form of cleft out alveolar or labial deformity. involving the alveolar arch The vomer is separated from the and the anterior portion of lateral segments. (Mason.) palate only. (Mason.) descends to the tongue and the posterior to the pharynx. Posteriorly, the soft palate termi- nates in the uvula. The following are the muscles of the soft palate :— The palato-pharyngeus begins in the median raphe in two layers which enclose the levator palati and azygos uvulae ; it then passes down-