OBESITY 142 The two principal objects aimed at in all these methods are, first, to cause the obese person to consume the excess of fat deposited in his body by restricting the food-supply, or by augmenting its combustion by increased physical exercise or other means ; and, second, to establish a dietary which shall prevent its re-accumulation. We may take Oertel's method as a typical one, and one which has been very generally adopted. He claims for his system that it not only provides for the removal of fat, but also prevents its re-accumulation ; that it also main- tains the amount of albumin, and restores tone to the organs of circulation. He distinguishes two degrees of obesity : one, the slighter form, in which the organs of circulation are unaffected and vigorous bodily exercise is possible; and another, the graver form, in which the muscle of the heart is invaded and weakened, and other functional derangements connected therewith are developed. He adopts Voit's statement that the human body decreases in fat if the daily food consists of the three great groups of foods in the following proportions:— Proteids about 4^ oz., fats 1| oz., and carbo- hydrates about 5^ oz. Oertel, therefore, allows 0^ to 6 oz. of proteids, 1 to 1^ oz. of fat, and 2^ to 3^ oz. of carbohydrates. With this diet regular exercise is combined, as muscular exertion is attended with a considerable reduc- tion of fat, and the relative excess of proteids in this method leads to the displacement of the fat accumulated in the substance of the muscles and to a new formation of muscular tissue in its place. At the same time, this diet protects the nitrogenous tissues from waste. In the graver cases, where the accumulations of fat about the heart have led to great embar- rassment of that organ, and to consequent visceral congestion and even dropsy, the fats and carbohydrates are still further reduced, and the amount of fluid consumed is severely re- stricted, and the fluids of the body are further reduced by vapour and other baths. In this dietary the proteids may consist of roast or boiled beef, veal, mutton, game, and eggs. Green vegetables, such as cabbage and spinach, may be taken; fat in very limited amount; bread, 4 to 6 oz. per diem. The fluids taken daily must be limited to rather less than 6 oz. of coffee, tea and milk morning and evening, and about 12 oz. of wine with from 8 to 16 oz. of water. Beer is, of course, forbidden. This method may be put into actual practice in the following manner:— Morning.—One cup of coffee or tea with a little milk — altogether about 6 oz. Bread about 3 oz. Noon. — 3 to 4 oz. of soup, 7 to 8 oz. of roast or boiled beef, veal, game, or not too fat poultry. Salad or a light vegetable. 1 oz. of bread or farinaceous pudding—never more than 3 oz. 3 to 6 oz. of fruit (fresh preferred) for dessert. It is advisable at this meal to avoid taking fluids, but in hot weather, or in the absence of fruit, 6 to 8 oz. of light wine may be taken. Afternoon. — The same amount of tea or coffee as in the morning, with about 6 oz. of water; an ounce of bread as an exceptional indulgence. Evening.—One or two soft-boiled eggs, 1 oz. of bread, and perhaps a small slice of cheese. Salad and fruit, 6 to 8 oz. of wine, with 4 or 5 oz. of water. In Schweinger's modification of this method there is an entire suppression of beverages at meals. Whatever fluid is drunk must be taken an hour or two after food. Von Noorden's method, more recently pub- lished, differs from the preceding in giving small meals at frequent intervals, e.g. :— 8 a.m.—Cold lean meat, 3 oz.j bread, 1 oz.; a cup of tea or coffee with a spoonful of milk, no sugar. 10 A.M.—An egg. Noon.—A cup of strong soup without fat. 1 P.M.—A small plate of clear soup (Julienne) ; lean meat or fish, 5 oz.; potatoes, 3^ oz. ; green vegetables ; fresh fruit, 3^ oz. 3 P.M.—A cup of black coffee. 4 P.M.—Fresh fruit, 7 oz. 6 P.M.—A glass of skimmed milk. 8 P.M.—Cold lean meat, 4^ oz., with pickles; Graham bread, 1 oz. ; two or three spoonfuls of fruit cooked without sugar. Some of those who affect to be specialists in the treatment of obesity have been in the habit of applying some modification of the so-called Salisbury cure, the essential idea of which is to limit the food and drink to the lean of meat, preferably beef, and an abundance of hot water. The late Dr. Towers Smith was a strong advocate of this method, and he has stated that his custom was to give 3 lbs. of rump steak and 1 lb. of cod-fish, together with 6^ pints of hot water, as the daily diet for the first fortnight; for the next three weeks 4 pints of hot water with other kinds of lean meat and fish are allowed, as well as a little green vegetable and unsweetened rusks. For the following months the hot water is reduced to about a pint a day and some crusts of stale bread, captain's biscuits, grilled meat, or poultry or game of any kind, and hock and claret with seltzer water are allowed. Five grains of bicarbonate of potash are also prescribed night and morning. No doubt some striking results in the reduc- tion of fat have been observed to follow this method, which may be accounted for by the supposition that the patient supplies the neces- sary fat and carbohydrates (absent in his diet) from his own store—that he consumes his own fat.