PELLAGRA 375 ings are all predisposing factors, but are not sufficient in themselves to produce pellagra, which is not an accompaniment of potato disease in Ireland or rice famine in India. As an addi- tional proof that maize is a necessary factor I may mention that the poorest peasant of Lower Egypt becomes pellagrous because he lives on bad maize, while the equally poor inhabitant of Upper Egypt or the Soudan, living under similar conditions, daily eats millet {Sorghum vulgare), and escapes pellagra. Experiments upon dogs, hares, poultry, and men have shown that pella- grous symptoms can be produced by feeding them with damaged maize or with an alcoholic extract prepared from it. In Italy pellagra was long thought to be hereditary, but its early appearance in that country is probably due to the habit among the peasant women of giving maize "polenta" to children while still at the breast. Both sexes and all ages and races may contract it. Although we do not yet know what the toxin is, or whether the cause of the intoxication is an epiphyte growing on the cob or in the flour, we know that damp is one of the essentials for producing spoilt maize. It is cut before being ripe, or exposed to rain or dew, or stored away in damp, dark cellars, unprotected in any way from the earth below. Sometimes it is even stored in its sheath, when it is almost impossible for the grain to get thoroughly dry, and some- times it is grown from seed already diseased or partially eaten by weevils. In Italy it is thought that it is unwise to grow any species of maize which ripens quickly or ripens during the early autumn months, and it is noticed that pellagra is more apt to be rife after a rainy summer, or after the failure of the crop the year before. It has diminished in Italy since the introduction of improvements in dry- ing and storing the grain. Symptoms.—It is impossible to fix any incuba- tion period, and the course of the disease, if unchecked, must be put down rather vaguely as from five years to fifteen or even twenty. The premonitory symptoms are giddiness, anaemia, failing appetite, general debility, and indefinite pains. When the disease is once established the symptoms can be conveniently divided into those affecting: (1) the skin, (2) digestive system, (3) spinal cord, and (4) brain. The skin eruptions, although the least im- portant of the various symptoms, have given the disease its name, and have always received an undue amount of attention. They usually appear for the first time during the spring months because the ultra-violet rays of the sun are then especially strong. They die gradually away during the summer, so that only traces can be found in the autumn and winter, but in the spring (and occasionally also in the autumn) they return with redoubled vigour. An erythema not unlike a severe sun- burn is first seen, with swelling and tension of the skin for a few days. Later there is, in severe cases, a real dermatitis producing hyper- trophy with a gradual loss of elasticity. It is not usually till the second spring that the dermatitis is so extensive as to lead to pro- nounced exfoliation, but when this is present we have a very characteristic picture. The epidermis slowly falls off in flakes dis- coloured grey or brown, leaving a clean surface behind, sometimes in the form of small patches, but more often as striae. Every year the erythema leaves a little more pigment and thickening behind it, until a chronic atrophy takes place, marking out the place where the eruption has been. The affected skin then looks wrinkled like the hand or neck of a man eighty years old, though the healthy skin in the neighbourhood is still plump and elastic. Early cases complain of burning or tingling in the skin, but later ones only suffer from itching. In advanced cases there is sometimes a curious ichthyotic mottling which seems to be the legacy of many attacks of exfoliating inflam- mation of the skin, with a deposit of pigment and atrophy of both skin and subcutaneous tissue. The eruption is essentially dry, and bullae on the extremities are very rare. The site of the rash is limited only by the patient's clothing. European adults working in the fields get it chiefly on the face, neck, ears, and hands. Those who habitually work with the forearms exposed get it there, those without sleeves have the upper arms affected in addition, and barefooted children are attacked in the dorsum of the feet and legs. The Egyptian peasant wears fewer clothes and works in a stronger sun, and therefore gets more eruption. If he works in the fields wearing nothing but a pair of short drawers, all the exposed portions of the body will be affected. But even in Egypt the parts earliest attacked with erythema are the hands and foi'earms, elbows, feet, insteps, legs and knees, and upper part of the chest. In all countries the rash shows a marked pre- ference for the dorsal aspects of the upper and lower limbs, only creeping rovmd to the flexor side as the case becomes chronic, and never involving the ham, axilla, bend of the elbows, palms, and soles. The dorsal aspect of the middle phalanx of the fingers is affected in long-standing cases, but the ungual phalanx is only rarely involved. The nails and hair are always unaffected. Wherever present, the regular symmetry of the eruptions strikes the observer; the erythema, the desquamation or the ichthyotic mottling, extend to exactly the same level, and finish oft" in the same way as a trophic lesion should do. Asymmetrical clothing will, however, produce erythema occurring differently on the two sides of the body. 2. Examination of the tongue will often help to decide a doubtful diagnosis, for in most of