(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 160 as the third dorsal vertebra it follows the course of the spinal column, but at this spot it passes almost vertically downwards to the diaphragm. In the frontal plane the oesophagus inclines slightly towards the left side at the junction of its cervical and thoracic portions, and regains the middle line about the fifth dorsal vertebra. It then deviates again slightly to the left as it passes through the diaphragm. It is most important to know accurately the relations of the oesophagus. In the nech the right recurrent laryngeal nerve lies along its right side, whereas the left nerve lies just at its anterior surface; hence, when the oesophagus is exposed on the left side (the usual side for the operation of cesophagotomy), it is important to avoid the nerve by opening the oesophagus rather on its posterior than its anterior surface. The inferior thyroid veins form a plexus on the anterior surface of the tube, and the left inferior thyroid artery lies in contact with its left side. In the thorax at the bifurcation of the trachea the oesophagus is rather to the left of the middle line, so that the left bronchus lies against its anterior surface—a fact which ac- counts for the greater frequency with which the left bronchus is implicated in growths of the oesophagus. In the angle between the two bronchi are several lymphatic glands, and these, when the seat of abscesses, may discharge their contents into the bronchi ; further, in cases where cicatricial tissue forms in and around these glands, the lumen of the bronchi may be somewhat narrowed by the contracting tissue. Below the bifurcation of the trachea the pericardium lies immediately in front of the oesophagus, and on rare occasions a bougie has been passed through an ulcerating growth into the pericardium, and the sword-swallower has wounded his heart owing to this proximity. The relation of the pleurae to the oesophagus has some practical importance. Below the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra the right pleura passes towards the back of the oesophagus lying between it and the vertical column; on the left side the pleura is in contact with the front of the oesophagus only. This closer re- lationship of the oesophagus and the right pleura is shown by the fact that growths of the oeso- phagus more often invade the right than the left pleura. From a surgical point of view it is important to remember this fact, as, in approach- ing the oesophagus from behind in the thorax, it should never be done on the right side below the eighth dorsal vertebra. Above the eighth dorsal vertebra it is safer to expose the oeso- phagus on the right side, as the aorta is at some distance away to the left. It would be impossible to remove any part of the oesophagus below the diaphragm without removing the vagi. In animals, section of the nerves at this level does not seem to be a serious matter. Examination of the (Esophagus.—In the neck it is sometimes possible to feel a distended diverticulum or a foreign body. Very rarely, indeed, can a growth of the oesophagus be felt in the neck. In the thorax and abdomen pal- pation is, of course, out of the question. Of all the methods for detecting obstruction in the oesophagus the gum-elastic bougie is the most useful. It should be softened just before use by being held for a minute or two in hot water, and then lubricated with a little glycerine. Provided no violence is employed this method is a safe one. It is, however, possible that even with a slight amount of force the oesophagus might be perforated in the region of a very advanced growth, or that an aneurysm of the aorta, which had nearly destroyed the wall of the oesophagus at one point, might be entered by quite gentle pressure. Such cases, however, are extremely rare, and the inevitable fatal termination is only anticipated by a short time. Examination of the oesophagus by a lamp or mirror, or (Esophagoscopy as it is sometimes called, has been found of some use; but it requires considerable experience, and seldom leads to any more definite information than the ordinary methods afford. Auscultation of the oesophagus has been found useful by some practitioners. The patient is told to swallow liquids, and the stethoscope is placed at various points along the vertebral column in order to appreciate any abnormal sounds produced by the presence of a stricture. Radiography has proved of the greatest service in localising the position of foreign bodies in the oesophagus. In examining the oesophagus it is important to bear in mind that there are three spots where the oesophagus is decidedly narrower than the rest of the tube—namely, at the commencement, at a spot adjacent to the bifurcation of the trachea, and its termination. At these points the diameter is about five-eighths of ;in inch, so that no bougie of greater diameter than half an inch should be used. When the oesophagus is exposed at the root of the neck it has a certain amount of mobility in two planes. There is a certain amount of side to side movement and there is a slight mobility in its own axis, so that the lower part of the oeso- phagus can be pulled upwards for about an inch. Wounds and Rupture of the CEsophagus. —Wounds of the oesophagus alone, apart from injuries of neighbouring structures, are very seldom met with in suicidal wounds. In sabre cuts of the neck and in gunshot wounds the injury to the oesophagus is of small moment compared with that of the trachea, great vessels, etc. As a rule, it is only in very extensive wounds indeed that the oesophagus is wounded, and the patient generally dies from hsemorrhage or asphyxia before the wounded oesophagus can give rise to any symptoms. Occasionally the oesophagus has laeen wounded by the introduc- tion of large foreign bodies, such as are used