NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 13 individuals between the ages of twenty-five and fifty; with the exception of the diphtheritic form, it is very rare in children. General Pathology.—The symmetrical nature of the motor and sensory symptoms in multiple neuritis point to an altered blood condition as the cause. The etiology shows that this altered blood condition is due most frequently to the presence of a definite toxic substance. In the cases in which the neuritis follows an infectious disease, the cause is probably a toxin produced by the action of micro-orgauisms, and this has been proved in the case of diphtheria. Multiple peripheral neuritis is characterised pathologically by degeneration of the finest branches of the peripheral nerves—in other words, by degeneration of the most distal part of the axon of the lower or peripheral neuron. This is the chief change. The degeneration rapidly diminishes towards the cord and the larger nerve-trunlss, aud the nerve-cells of the anterior horns of grey matter often appear quite normal, even when examined by the most modern methods of staining. In other cases slight changes are noted in the nerve-cells, which are often probably secondary to those in the peripheral portions of their axons (the finest peripheral nerves). The poison causing neuritis frequently aff'ects other parts of the system besides the finest peripheral nerves (as the brain in alcoholic neuritis). Hence slight changes found in nerve-cells of the cord have been attributed, in some cases, to the primary action of tlie poison. Forms of Multi-pie Neuritis. — Four forms have been described according to the nature of the most prominent cUnical symptoms—(1) mixed sensory and motor, (2) sensory, (3) motor, (4) ataxic (pseudo-tabes). Also acute and chronic forms have been described according to the onset; and ascend- ing and descending forms according to the course of the symptoms. But it appears most practical to describe the symptoms separately, according to the cause. Alcoholic Multiple Neuritis. — The most common form of multiple neuritis is that pro- duced by the drinking of alcoholic beverages— " alcoholic" peripheral neuritis. It is caused by excess of spirits or beer, and it is stated that wine may produce it also. In Manchester, during the year 1900, a large number of cases of peripheral neuritis occurred in persons whose alcoholic beverage was exclusively or chiefly beer, ale, or stout. At the end of 1900 Dr. E. S. Reynolds made the interesting and import- ant discovery that Manchester beer contained arsenic, and it was soon found that a large quantity of the beer sold in the north of England and midland counties was also con- taminated more or less with arsenic. As arsenic is a poison which is capable of producing neuritis, this discovery naturally has received much attention. [Multiple neuritis from ar- senical beer will be subsequently considered.] Apparently it has not hitherto been the custom to test beer for arsenic as an impurity, and it is impossible to say, of course, how much of the multiple neuritis from beer drinlting in the past has been produced by arsenical beer. Whether beer free from arsenic is capable, in large quantities, of producing multiple neuritis (as has been generally believed hitherto) will be clearly shown by future experience, as for many years, at least, beer sold in England will be free from arsenic. As regards the etiology of alcoholic neuritis, we are therefore limited, at the present time, to the consideration of cases from the drinking of spirits ; and even the importance of alcohol ])er se has been recently called in question by Dr. Reynolds since arsenic was discovered in beer. Many of the earlier cases of peripheral neuritis, recorded when the disease first began to attract attention, were in spirit drinkers. Sir W. Gowers and many other writers state that alcoholic neuritis results chiefly from the stronger forms of alcohol, especially spirits. The late Dr. Ross, in an analysis of 90 cases (77 of which were collected from medical literature) foimd the form of alcoholic beverage to be given as follows : in 22, spirits—brandy, whisky, gin, or rum; in 3, absinthe or vermouth; in 13, beer and spirits ; in 5, beer only; in 47, the form of alcohol was not stated. [In Manchester, of course, there can be no doubt that for many years beer alone (? arsenical or non-arsenical) has been very much more frequently the cause of multiple neuritis than would be indicated by the figures just mentioned.] There can be no doubt that multiple neuritis occurs in intemperate individuals whose chief alcoholic beverage is spirits. The writer is unable to obtain definite statistics as to whether multiple neuritis is more frequent or less fre- quent in countries where the chief alcoholic drink is stated to be spirits. In Scotland it is generally believed that spirits are drunk much more freely than in England, and certainly the statistics in the Edinburgh hospital reports do not indicate that the disease is less frequent there than in London. [During five years (1892-97) at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary there were 24,065 medical in-patients, and of these 144 suffered from alcoholic peripheral neuritis—ratio, 5 "9, nearly 6 in every 1000. At St. Thomas's Hospital, London, during five years (1894-98) there were 9450 medical in-patients, and of these 34 suffered from alcoholic neuritis, 9 from peripheral neuritis of doubtful origin, i.e. 43 cases possibly due to alcoholic neuritis—ratio, 4-5 per 1000.] There are two other questions with regard to neuritis from spirit drinking which may be here referred to:—(1) It may be asked. Are