118 NOSE—INFLAMMATOEY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSOEY SINUSES enlarged by means of bone forceps, Zaufal's mastoid forceps being very useful for this purpose, or by electro-motor burs which are also very serviceable for smoothing the bony edges of the opening. While reflecting the periosteum and removing the facial wall in an upward direction, care must be taken not to injure the infra-orbital nerve and artery as they pass through the foramen of that name at a varying distance beneath the infra-orbital margin. The size of the opening made in the bone varies; some operators enlarge it so that the interior of the cavity may be carefully inspected and the little finger readily inserted in order to palpate the walls in every direction. Others, again, content themselves with a smaller opening; the larger one, however, is certainly to be preferred. Haemorrhage is controlled and the cavity dried ovit by plugging; at this stage of the operation good illumination reflected from a mirror or obtained from an electric forehead lamp is essential for a thorough inspection of the interior of the siniis. The altered mucous membrane is then scraped with a sharp spoon ; it is very necessary that the different walls and angles of the cavity should come within the reach of the curette so that no focus of disease is overlooked, a step which has a very important influence on the success of the operation. Special attention should be paid to the floor and the malar region. For this purpose sharp spoons or ring knives which can be fixed at different angles should be employed. 1 find the latter mounted on a pliable stem which can be bent by the operator to suit each case, of great use. The haemor- rhage, which is usually pretty free at this stage, should again be controlled by plugging, and on the removal of the gauze a thorough inspection of the accessible parts of the cavity is once more made and any suspicious area dealt with. Care must be taken while curetting the roof of the antrum and the angle between it and the facial wall that the infra-orbital nerve is not injured in its bony canal; further, that the recess con- cealed by the ridge of bone in which this canal so frequently runs must not be overlooked, and diseased membrane left untouched. Finally, the antral cavity having been thoroughly dried, is swabbed out with pure carbolic acid and then carefully packed with iodoform worsted or gauze, or carbolised gauze, the end of the dressing being left just within the cut edges of the mucous membrane, which fall together when the lip is released from the retractor. The after-treatment demands considerable care, and must be carried out with the greatest attention to surgical cleanliness. Two objects are aimed at—namely, the aseptic healing of the cavity, and the closure of the wound be- tween the antrum and the mouth. In order to diminish the risk of antral reinfection a small pad of sublimated wool or unprepared gauze wrung out of boracic lotion should be placed between the upper lip and the alveolus so as to cover the wound. This should be changed repeatedly during the day after the patient has taken food, and the surface of the wound should be gently syriiiged with boracic lotion. The mouth is frequently washed out with the same. The first dressing is not removed until the fifth or sixth day if the temperature and local appearances do not indicate its earlier removal. The cavity is then inspected, and again plugged and redressed every third or fourth day, the plug being finally removed, and the wound allowed to close at the end of the second or third week. The dressing is not painful if carefully done, and does not subject the patient to very much annoyance. The sterilised iodoform worsted employed is pre- served in 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate, which should be thoroughly wrung out immediately before insertion of the plug. To some patients the taste of iodoform is objectionable, but in these cases the double cyanide gauze or steril- ised gauze or worsted can be substituted at first dressing. It will be observed that the dry method of treatment alone is adopted. Personally, I have found this mode of treatment very satisfactory in a considerable number of cases, and have obtained good results with it. My experience does not agree with that of some who have found the after-treatment most dis- tressing to the patient, and the buccal wound a danger to the antral cavity. To one who has been syringing his antrum perhaps for months, the cessation of all further treatment on his own part and the cure of the condition in a com- paratively short time come as a great relief. As regards the closure of the aperture between the antrum and the mouth there is, as a rule, no difficulty, a permanent communication being rarely if ever established. The partial closure of the incision in the buccal mucous membrane by one or more stitches, either at the time of the operation or after the first or second dress- ing, will obviate this risk should it be feared. The alveolar track in which the plug has lieen worn usually closes readily; but to prevent infection of the cavity from that source its lower end may with advantage be kept plugged with the obturator for a few days after the operation, or, preferably, the track should be allowed to close a few days before the radical treatment is carried out. Opening through the Canine Fossa with a. Counter Opening through the Inferior Meatus of the Nose (Caldwell, Luc).—With a view to diminish or prevent the risk of reinfection of the sinus through the buccal wound, a modifica- tion of the previous operation is now practised. Its essential feature consists in the immediate closure of the incision in the buccal mucous membrane after establishing a large communica-