PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 502 nection with muscle that all the problems of nutrition—digestion, respiration, circulation, and excretion—have to be studied. ^ I. Muscle The two great functions of muscle are— To perform mechanical work. To liberate heat. 1. Muscle at Rest Structure: Chemistry and Physical Characters. —The first trace of the evolution of muscle is found among the infusoria, where, in certain cells, in parts of the protoplasm, the network or cytomitoma is arranged in long parallel threads in the direction of which the cell contracts and expands. Such a development has been termed a myoid. 1. Structure of Muscle Even a cursory examination of mammalian muscle shows that those of the trunk and limbs — skeletal muscles—are different from those of such internal organs as the bladder, uterus, and alimentary canal—visceral muscles. The visceral muscles appear to be formed from cells similar to ordinary connective-tissue cells. These elongate, acquire a covering, and their protoplasm becomes definitely longitudi- nally fibrillated by the arrangement of the cytomitoma. They thus become spindle-shaped cells, varying in length from about 50 to 200 micro-millimetres. A covering membrane, the sarcolemma, develops. This is thin, but tough and elastic, and it adapts itself to the surface of the cell, unless when this is excessively shortened, in which case the sarcolemma may be thrown into folds, which give the cell the appearance of cross-striping. The nucleus is usually long, almost rod-shaped, and is independent of the cytomitoma (Fig. 15, a). The skeletal muscles develop from a special a Fig. 15. — a, Fibres of visceral muscle; b, fibres of skeletal muscle to sliow sarcolemma, muscle coi'puscles, and sarcous substance composed of fibrils showing transverse markings. set of cells, early differentiated as the muscle- plates in the mesoblast down each side of the vertebral column of the embryo. Each cell elongates. The nucleus divides across, but the cell, instead of also dividing, lengthens and continues to elongate as the two daughter nuclei again divide. The cytomitoma becomes arranged longitudinally, and a series of trans- verse markings appear across the cell. Lastly, a covering, the sarcolemma, develops, and the fully-formed fibre is produced (Fig. 15, b). This consists of three parts— 1. The sarcolemma is a delicate, tough, elastic membrane closely investing the fibre, and attached to it at Dobie's lines. 2. The muscle corpuscles consist of little masses of protoplasm each with a nucleus, which lie just under the sarcolemma. 3. The sarcous substance is made up of a series of longitudinal fibrils consisting of alter- nate dim and clear bands—the former staining deeply with eosin. In the middle of the clear band is a narrow dim line, Dobie's line. The fibres and fibrils tend to break across in the region of the clear band, showing that they are weakest at that part. The clear band differs from the dim band, not only in not taking up eosin, but also in the fact that it entirely pre- vents the passage of polarised light except in one position of the analysing prism, while the dim band allows polarised light to pass, what- ever be the position of the prisms. A probable explanation of these facts is that the sarcous substance is made up, like other protoplasm, of a mitoma and plasma; that the mitoma is arranged in a series of longitudinal fibres, which are broader and stronger in the dim band, and lie closely applied to one another, side by side, while in the clear band they are thinner, and are separated from one another by plasma; and that at Dobie's line there is a swelling on each fibril. 2. Chemistry of Muscle Like all other living tissues, muscle is largely composed of water. It contains about 75 per cent. The 25 per cent of solid constituents is made up of a small quantity, about 3 per cent, of ash, and 22 per cent of organic substances. The ash consists chiefly of potassium and phos- phoric acid, with small amounts of sulphuric and hydrochloric acids and of sodium, mag- nesium, calcium, and iron. The sulphuric acid is derived from the sulphur of the proteins, and a part of the phosphoric acid is derived from the phosphorus of the nucleins of muscle, and probably from other organic combinations. 1. Proteins.—Of the organic constituents, by far the greater part is made up of Proteins. These may be divided into— (a) Those soluble in neutral salt solutions. {h) Those insoluble in them. [a) The first class of bodies consists entirely of three globulins. Two of these—Myosinogen and Paramyosinogen—have the peculiar pro- perty of clotting under certain conditions, to form what is called Myosin, and this process, which occurs after death, is the cause of death stiffening. The post-mortem change is supposed to be brought about by the development of an enzyme, since a glycerine extract of dried muscle rapidly causes the formation of myosin.