184 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE springs from the ethmoidal sinus, for example, and makes its way into the orbit. The difficulty in diagnosis is enhanced by the fact that tumours originating in the ethmoid, sphenoid, or frontal sinus may attain a considerable size, and remain undiscovered until their extension into the orbit gives rise to signs or symptoms which attract attention. Metastatic orbital tumours have been reported, but they are extremely rare. The most frequent clinical sign of orbital tumour, and one which is common to all varieties, is exophthalmos. The degree and the direction of the displacement of the eyeball vary considerably, and are dependent upon the size and position of the tumour, and the presence or absence of coincident inflammation of the orbital cellular tissue. The degree of exoph- thalmos, however, bears no constant relation to the size of the tumour. If the latter be situated at the apex of the orbit it may grow to a considerable size without causing much displacement of the globe. In cases in which the tumour attains a large size, the proptosis becomes extreme, the eye and other orbital contents being pushed forwards until the globe may be almost dislocated between the eyelids. Manipulation of the eye during the examination of such cases may readily lead to complete dislocation. The protrusion of the eyeball is seldom directly forwards. There is generally in addition some lateral or vertical displacement, and the direction of this is indicative of the position of the new growth. When the tumour originates in the optic nerve, or its sheath, the eyeball is displaced directly forwards. The protruded globe in cases of orbital tumour offers a very variable resistance to backward pressure. In soft and very vascular growths, and in cystic or aneurysmal tumours, the exophthalmos can be appreciably reduced by pressing the eyeball into the orbit; whereas in cases of sarcoma and other solid tumours, especially osteoma, little or no alteration in the protrusion of the globe can be effected by pressure. Derangement of the movements of the eye- ball is another common symptom of orbital tumour, and is present to a greater or less degree in all cases in which displacement of the eye occurs. The loss of mobility may be slight and only in one direction, or all the ocular movements may be restricted. Limita- tion of movement is frequently due to mechani- cal interference with one or more of the ocular muscles by a solid growth, or a tense cyst pushing the muscle aside and stretching it, or growing round it. In some cases the muscle is invaded by new growth and disorganised, and in others the trunks of the motor nerves are involved by a tumour arising in the vicinity of the sphenoidal fissure. In addition to loss of ocular movement there is, not infrequently, more or less ptosis, from paralysis of, or mechanical interference with, the levator palpebrse superioris. In slight degrees of exophthalmos the eye- lids may have a normal appearance, although pushed forwards by the protruding globe. As the exophthalmos increases, the eyelids, and especially the upper lid, become swollen, con- gested, and often dusky, and the enlarged veins become visible through the skin. The visual disturbance induced by an orbital tumour varies very widely. Impairment of sight may occur as an early symptom, or not until the exophthalmos becomes extreme. It is due to atrophy of the optic nerve from pressure of the tumour, or to neuritis. In the former case the ophthalmoscope will reveal a pale atrophic optic disc, and in the latter a swollen inflamed papilla. The ophthalmoscopic changes may, however, be very slight, and merely indicative of obstruction to the return of blood from the retina. In cases in which good vision is retained, but the eye is displaced and its movement restricted, diplopia will be a prominent and annoying symptom. If the exophthalmos is extreme, so that the lids cannot be made to cover the eyeball, the cornea is prone to suffer. Keratitis from exposure sets in, and rapid ulceration and sloughing may lead to the complete destruction of the cornea. It is unusual for an orbital tumour to invade the eyeball, even in cases in which the growth originates in the optic-nerve sheath. Some of the more malignant forms, however, attack all the tissues with which they come in con- tact. Examination of the orbit by palpation frequently furnishes important evidence, not only as to the existence of a tumour, but also as to its position, size, and other characteristics. Digital examination may enable us to determine whether the growth is cystic or solid, and whether it is fixed or movable. But, except in instances in which the tumour has extended far forwards, it is often difScult to reach it with the fingers. There is not much space between the eyeball and the orbital margin, and pressure with the fingers in this space renders the tissues so tense that careful palpation becomes extremely difficult. In cases of doubt as to the nature of a growth, puncture by a needle or trocar may materially assist the diagnosis ; or an exploratory incision, and if necessary, removal of a small portion of growth for microscopical examination, should be resorted to. When there is uncertainty as to the source of a tumour, that is, whether it has originated in the orbit or extended to it from one of the neighbouring sinuses, examination, by transillumination, by means of an electric light in the patient's mouth, should be made. In this way the presence of a growth in the frontal or maxillary sinus or the nasal fossae can be de-