339 PARASITES or other of the following genera—Cercomonas, Trypanosoma, Trichomonas, or Lamblia. The organisms of the genus Cercomonas are ovoid or spherical, small and colourless, and have one flagellum anteriorly. They have on many occasions been detected in the sputum, lungs, and pleuritic exudations both of man and the lower animals, and are no doubt merely saprophytic. TrypanosomMa are mostly of an elongated and spiral form, uninuclear, with usually only one flagelhxm anteriorly and actively motile. Their development is as yet imperfectly understood. Trypanosoma Leivisi (Kent, 1882), 8-20 /w, long by 1-2 broad, was found by Lewis (1879) in the blood of rats. In them it is usually saprophytic, and is possibly identical with similar organisms in the blood of certain fishes. It is probably specifically distinct from the Trypanosoma Brucei (Plimmer and Bradford, 1899).—This resembles T. Lewisi morpho- logically, and is about 10-12 fx. long. The posterior extremity is obtuse. It is found in the blood of the ox, horse, mule, camel, etc., and can be transmitted to the dog and rat. It is, as shown by Bruce (1894, 1897), the cause of tsetse fly disease, or nagana, in Central, East, and South Africa, the disease being transmitted by the tsetse fly, which infects the animals by its bite. The disease is not transmissible to man. Trypanosoma Evansi, first recorded by Evans in 1880, is 20-30 (x long by 1-2 fj. broad, and has the posterior extremity pointed. It is parasitic in the blood of the horse, camel, goat, and other animal species in India and the Dutch East Indies, causing chiefly in the horse and mule the disease termed surra, of which irregular fever and anaemia are prominent symptoms. The disease is possibly inoculated by the bite of Tahanus tropicus. E. R. Rost (1901) finds tliat the inoculation of surra blood into goats is followed by a fever of short dura- tion, but that the subsequent injection of their blood serum into mules and ponies is the reverse of beneficial. It is not yet decided whether surra and tsetse fly disease are the same or different diseases. The clinical signs of both are very similar, but the tsetse fly is not known to exist in India. Trypanosoma of dourine was first described by Rouget (1896) as being 18-26 n long by 2-2"5 /A broad. It is found in the blood of mares and stallions, causing the disease known as dourine in France and as die Beschdlseuche in Germany. The disease is transmitted by coitus, and is now regarded as specifically distinct from surra and tsetse fly disease. Other organisms belonging to the same family as the trypanosomata are found in the intestine of the house-fly and of certain birds, and in the blood of fishes, frogs, etc., but it JFlO. 2.—Trichomonas horainis. (After Grassi.) is doubtful whether any are parasitic in man. Of the different species belonging to the genus Trichomonas only two are found in the human subject. They are: I. Trichomonas vaginalis (Donne, 1837), spindle or pear-shaped, usually about 17 /a long, the posterior end pointed, the anterior bearing three flagellse. It is a common saprophyte in acid vaginal mucus, and has also been found in the urethra and urine from both sexes. II. Tricho- monas hominis (Davaine, 1854) ; Syn. : Cercomonas hominis; etc., is pyriform, 4-10 /j. long, with three flagelhe anteriorly. It is found in the healthy intestine and in the ffeces of persons suffering from diar- rhoea, but is probably a mere saprophyte (Fig. 2). Lamhlia intestinalis (Lambl, 1859).—It is pear or carrot shaped, 10-16 jx long; shows a suctorial depression anteriorly, has two long flagellse attached to the pointed posterior extremity, and three pairs of flagellse to the anterior half of the body. It inhabits the upper half of the small intestine of man and many of the lower animals, and is also found in the faeces when the host suffers from diarrhoea. Like T. hominis it is saprophytic. Sporozoa are all parasitic. At one stage in their life-cycle they all multiply by the splitting off of encapsuled bodies, which are often termed "spores." Owing to the rapid growth of know- ledge in regard to the sporozoa, there is at present no system of classification generally accepted and no nomenclature universally adhered to, although any species should be referred to by its original designation, whilst symptoms subsequently introduced are dis- carded. The following classification is that often adopted at present:— I. Subclass Telosporidia, containing the following orders: Coccidiida, Hmmosporidia, Gregarinida, A moebosporidia. II. Subclass Neosporidia, with three orders : Myxosporidia, Microsporidia, and Sarcosporidia. Telosporidia.—In all the sporozoa belonging to this subclass, " spore " formation occurs only when the growth and existence of the individual organism is about to terminate. The adult telosporidia are all uninuclear, and the life-cycle of each commences by the invasion of a cell of the host. I. Coccidiida are parasitic in epithelial cells chiefly of the intestine or abdominal viscera, rarely in connective tissues. They are found in arthropods, amphibia, fishes, birds, and mam-