556 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM axons cross the anterior white commissure to the opposite side of the cord, and have been traced upwards to the posterior part of the thalamus opticus. They may thus be called the spino-thalamic tract. They seem to run in two groups:—(1) Those concerned with the sensa- tions of pain, of heat and of cold cross near their point of entry and take up a position in close association with those of the ascending antero- lateral cerebellar tract (Fig. 91, D). (2) Those concerned with the tactile sense, whether of light touch or of pressure, run for a short distance up the posterior columns, then form synapses. The fibres from these cross at a higher level than the last, and when they have f 10. 91.—To show redistribution of impulses in the spinal cord. 1 to 5, Incoming fibres of posterior root; ^, tract of kinsesthetic sense ; B, tract of unconscious impulses for muscular co-ordination and tone ; C, same as B, but on opposite side; D, tract of impulses of pain, heat, and cold ; E, tract of impulses of touch and pressure. (Page May.) crossed take up a position on the anterior margin of the cord (Fig 91, £J). As regards the side of the cord on which these fibres lie as they course upwards to the brain, it has been demonstrated, by section of one-half of the cord, that sensations of pain, temperature, and to a less extent of touch, are lost on the opposite side below the point of section, and that the kinsesthetic sense and partly the tactile sense are lost on the same side. These symptoms are explained by Fig. 90. The position of the fibres in the diff'erent columns of the cord has been determined by studying the results of section of the different columns and by following out the degenerations which result. The degeneration method, or Wallerian method, is based upon the fact, that nerve fibres separated from their cell die and degenerate {see p. 521). These degenerations may be demonstrated when recent by Marchi's method of staining, which depends upon the fact that, while the white sheath of normal fibres is not stained black when the tissue is placed in a solution of chrome salt with osmic acid, it is so stained when it begins to degenerate (p. 521). When, at a later period, the white sheaths have entirely disappeared, the degeneration is best demonstrated by Weigert's method of staining the white sheaths of normal fibres with hsema- toxylin, which leaves the degenerated tracts of fibres unstained. The fibres in the central nervous system do not re- generate, pro- bably because they are devoid of the neurilemmal sheath. B. 0 ut g oiiKj Fibres. — The course of these fibres is much more easily deter- mined than that of the ingoing fibres. The eff'ects of experimental or clinical lesions of the cord upon the muscular move- ments, the down- ward degenera- tion which follows such lesions, and lastly the fact that, generally speaking, these outgoing fibres get their medul- lary sheath at a later date than the ingoing fibres, all enable the position of the outgoing tracts to be defined. They may be grouped in four sets— 1. A vei-y strong band of fibres lying in the posterior part of the lateral column, just inside the direct cerebellar tract, and becoming smaller as the lower part of the cord is reached. This is the crossed pyramidal tract (Fig. 87, C.Py.), which comes from the cells of the cortex cerebri of the opposite side, and gives oft' collateral branches to the cells in the anterior horn of the spinal cord (Fig. 41, D, p. 522). 2. Certain fibres from the cortex cerebri do not cross, but run down, some in the crossed pyramidal tract, some in the direct pyramidal tract (Fig. 87, O.Py.), which runs along the margin of the anterior fissure, and extends - D