110 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES occupied by a solid growth, the luminous rays as a rule either do not pass through it at all or only to a very slight extent. When there is cystic dilatation of the antrum, on the other hand, the illumination is intensified. In unilateral inflammatory affections of the antrum, therefore, illumination of the diseased side does not as a rule occur, so that a distinct contrast with the opposite healthy side is obtained. When both antra are affected so that no com- parison is thereby possible, the test loses its value, and we must further remember that opacity of both cheeks may be due to a normal anatomical condition of the parts. As the result of a large number of observations, I am led to conclude that in the majority of cases of antral disease the afi^ected sinus fails to illuminate. This is evidenced by the complete opacity of the infra-orbital region of that side, and by the inability of the patient to detect any subjective light sensation. Sometimes there is a faint illumination upon the suspected side, along with some degree of light perception, but the former still distinctly contrasts with the opposite healthy side. Occasionally, but in my experience rarely, a case is met with in which the aff'ected sinus illuminates like its healthy neighbour. When opacity of the cheek is associated with pus in the middle meatus, which reappears after Frankel's posture test, there is sufficient presumptive evidence of disease in the corre- sponding antral cavity, and exploratory puncture of the sinus is not necessary. There is, how- ever, a second but small group of cases in which the suspected antrum is opaque, and where the opposite presumably healthy cavity only faintly illuminates, so that there is no distinct contrast. Such a case must suggest the possibility that there may be some anatomical reason for the opacity—both sides being so much alike—so that in such a case illumination is not of the same assistance, and an exploratory puncture is desirable. In cases of chronic suppuration non-illumina- tion is due more to the inflammation and thickening of the mucous lining than to the presence of pus in the cavity. This is shown by the fact that after a quantity of pus has been washed out of the antrum, and the test repeated, opacity remains. For the same reason the thickness of the pus bears no rela- tion to the density of the shadow produced. It has been suggested that in those cases in which the antrum merely serves as a reservoir for pus secreted in the frontal sinus, opacity of the cheek is less pronounced than when it is actually secreted in the antrum itself. I have been unable to satisfy myself of this, and am inclined to think that an antrum cannot remain merely a reservoir for long, but must soon become actually infected. Illumination further assists us in arriving at a knowledge of the progress of the case towards recovery. When a diseased cavity, previously opaque, again illuminates, we have evidence of the restoration of its lining membrane towards a more normal condition. At the same time its failure to illuminate must not be taken to imply that a cure has not resulted. Regnier and Glover have suggested the use of the X-rays for testing the transparency of the maxillary sinuses. Until this method of research is brought more within the reach of the clinician it is not likely to supersede the illumination above described. If the various features of the case already enumerated, when studied together, still fail to convince the observer that the antrum is aff'ected, he must proceed through an explora- tory puncture to inflate or syringe out the cavity. The presence of pus in the middle meatus, associated with some degree of foetor and bad taste, and the existence of one or more carious teeth, is suggestive of antral suppura- tion. If, further, discharge reappears after stooping, and the cheek of the suspected side is opaque, the evidence is strongly presumptive. It is, however, only conclusive when pus is blown or washed out of the cavity. Before proceeding to carry this out the nasal chamber, including the middle meatus, must be carefully cleansed of every trace of pus by means of cotton-wool mops, or by syringing. This cannot be too strongly insisted upon, otherwise the test loses its value. If the lotion injected through the maxillary sinus passes thence through a nasal cavity which has not been thoroughly cleaned, there is no guarantee that the discharge washed out was not secreted in the frontal sinus or anterior ethmoidal cells. This fallacy is avoided by preliminary cleansing of the nose. One of the following methods of puncture may be employed :— (d) Exploration through the Outer Wall of the Inferior Meatus of the Nose.—This is, as a rule, a simple procedure, and is the most serviceable in doubtful cases, because in the event of the cavity proving to be healthy no inconvenience results such as might follow^ a temporary opening through a septic cavity like the mouth. The area selected lies immediately below the attachment of the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body where the bone is thinnest (Fig. 4). That structure and the mucous membrane of the outer wall of the inferior meatus are cocainised. If the turbi- nated body be turgescent, and tend to obscure the wall beneath it, the cocaine will reduce the swelling. A fine Lichtwitz's trocar and cannula, a Krause's or a Sprenger's trocar, is then intro- duced through a Thudichum's nasal speculum, the instrument being guided by the eye with the aid of good illumination. The trocar should be directed outwards and upwards; a firm push may be necessary before the wall is perforated