10 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF The ulnar nerve supplies sensory fibres to the ulnar side of the hand (palmar and dorsal surface) and also to one and a half fingers on the palmar surface, and to two and a half on the back of the hand (counting from the ulnar side). The antesthesia produced by paralysis of the nerve is variable, and not always pro- portionate to the lesion ; according to Schultze, the little finger is antesthetic both on its palmar and dorsal surfaces; the ulnar half of the ring finger is anaesthetic on the palmar surface. On the back of the hand there is in addition anses- thesia over the whole of the proximal phalanx, and over the ulnar half of the two distal phal- anges of the ring finger; also over the ulnar half of the proximal phalanx of the middle finger. Causes of Paralysis. — The nerve may be injured by bone or callus through fractures of the lower end of the humerus or of its internal condyle, or by fracture of the bones of the fore- arm. Dislocation at the elbow or shoulder, wounds at the elbow or in the forearm, may implicate the nerve. Prolonged flexion of the elbow (during sleep) may cause paralysis of the nerve. In rare cases it has been paralysed through pressure at the elbow and through neuritis in the puerperium. Ansesthesia in the region of the ulnar nerve sometimes occurs in general paralysis of the insane and in tabes dorsalis (Biernacki). The musculo-spiral nerve is (owing to the great distance for which it lies upon the unyielding humerus) more commonly injured than is any other important trunk. Open wounds are by no means common, but it is especially liable to suffer from crutch paralysis, from dislocations of the shoulder and fractures of the humerus, and from sleeping with the arm thrown over the back of a chair or sofa, or beneath the back of its owner ; as in the latter conditions sleep is generally alcoholic, a clear history of the circum- stances must not be expected. The motor symptoms are essentially those of paralysis of the extensors of the wrist and fingers, and of the supinators of the wrist, the paralysed muscles being the supinator longus and brevis, the radial and idnar extensors, extensor communis digitorum, and extensors of the thumb, index, and little fingers. If the lesion be high up, as in crutch paralysis, the triceps and anconeus are also affected; if it be below the origin of the branches to these muscles the wrist and hand will alone suffer. The position is character- istic : the wrist is flexed and pronated; the fingers and thumb are flexed upon the palm, but the terminal phalanges can be partially extended by the interossei and lumbricales if the wrist and proximal phalanges be supported. When the triceps is affected the elbow is slightly flexed and cannot be actively extended. AnfBS- thesia presents itself in the distribution of the external cutaneous branches on the outer side of the elbow and forearm, and in that of the radial nerve (infra). In the great majority of cases due to contusions, as from crutches or from sleeping in strained positions, the motor symptoms will alone be prominent; antesthesia is often slight or altogether absent, and trophic lesions are very rare : such cases usually recover within a week or two. The radial nerve, which is the principal sen- sory branch of the musculo-spiral, suffers with that trunk, and is liable to section in cuts about the wrist. Its distribution is sensory only, and includes that portion of the back of the hand and digits which lies to the radial side of the middle line of the ring finger, with the exception of the terminal portion of the digits supplied by overlapping branches of the median nerve. The lumbosacral plexus is liable to injury by intra-pelvic growths, and by the pressure of the foetal head during parturition ; its branches are- also often pressed upon by the exudation of sacro- iliac disease, and may be injured in fractures of the pelvis. Such conditions usually produce only neuralgiform pains with some weakness of the lower limbs. Paralysis and anaesthesia are rarely if ever complete, and the anterior crural and obturator divisions are much less sviscept- ible of injury than is the great sciatic, while the pelvic organs suffer little as they receive a bilateral nerve-supply. The extent and dis- tribution of the symptoms in the lower limbs present variations so wide as hardly to admit of description. Owing to the position of the cords of the plexus they are not open to operative treatment. Owing to its deep position the great sciatic nerve is rarely injured, but it is extremely sus- ceptible to pressure from disease. Its painful affections will be considered in the article upon sciatica ; and the effects of injury are similar to- those of combined lesions of the internal and external popliteal nerves. The anterior crural nerve is rarely paralysed by injury or pressure ; it supplies the extensor muscles of the knee-joint, and the skin of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg and foot. The exter7ial j)opliteal nerve is liable to the ordinary results of disease and injury, and is especially prone to pressure from enlargement of the bursa beneath the biceps tendon, and to injury from tight bandaging and splints about the knee-joint, from fractures of the neck of the fibula, and from careless tenotomy of the biceps tendon. It supplies the extensor muscles- of the ankle and toes, the peroneal muscles, and the skin of the dorsum of the foot. The internal popliteal nerve is very rarely involved in disease or injury; it supplies the muscles of the calf, the flexors of the ankle and foot, and the muscles of the sole, while its cutaneous distribution is to the calf and sole.