108 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES Although an upward and outward displace- ment of the eyeball may be met with in maxil- lary sinus suppuration, orbital complications probably arise less frequently in connection with it than with the other cavities. In frontal sinus disease expansion of the bony floor of that cavity, with or without the formation of an orbital abscess, causes swelling at the upper and inner angle of the orbit, and a downward and outward displacement of the globe. A similar displacement is more frequently asso- ciated with suppuration in the ethmoid cells in the absence of free drainage from these cells into the nose. The degree of forward projection of the eye (proptosis, exophthalmos) in these aiTections is mainly dependent upon the relatioti of the pressure to the equator of the eyeball. Consequent upon displacement of the eyeball, limitations in its movements and disturbances in function follow. Diplopia or double vision, and a narrowing of the field especially for colours, are symptoms met with, while some- times in severe cases there is an actual impair- ment of sight, an amblyopia or amaurosis. In association with these phenomena, pain, photo- phobia, interference with the flow of tears, swelling of the lids, and injection of the con- junctiva, make up a clinical picture which should always suggest the possibility of the existence of accessory sinus suppuration. With the actual formation of pus in the orbital cavity these phenomena become aggravated. Primary orbital abscess is not common, and its occurrence should lead to an examiiaation of the nasal sinuses. As already indicated, the ocular complications of sphenoidal disease are mainly those resulting from implication of the optic nerve at the base of the skull. Optic neuritis followed by atrophy, with partial or complete loss of vision, may complicate this condition. If the inflamma- tion should extend and involve the oculomotor nerves in the sphenoidal fissure, ptosis may be produced from implication of the third cranial nerve, while some variety of strabismus or a general paralysis of the ocular muscles may be induced by pressure upon the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. Intense neuralgia may be evi- dence of a neuritis of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. It is thus evident that the symptoms com- plained of by the patient may be varied in cases of chronic suppuration. It is inadvisable, there- fore, for the surgeon to hasten to any conclusion without first making a careful examination of the nose. This is all the more necessary when we remember that many of the nasal phenomena above described may be induced by lesions con- fined to the nasal chambers themselves, and result from such causes as the exanthemata, syphilis, tubercle, atrophic rhinitis, malignant disease, foreign bodies, and naso-pharyngeal catarrh. ii. Examination op the Nose.—On account of the close anatomical relations of the different sinuses and their ostia, the diagnosis of chronic suppuration is often difficult, and is frequently arrived at only by a process of exclusion. We shall therefore endeavour to describe, step by step, the procedure which may be adopted in carrying out a systematic examination of these cavities. Even after a careful inspection of the nose the surgeon may still be in doubt as to the real nature of the case, consequently he should have no hesitation in asking for a subsequent opportunity for further observation. As the intranasal appearances vary at different periods of the day, it is advisable that the patient should not be seen on each occasion at the same hour. Anterior and Posterior Rhinoscopy.—(a) Con- dition of the Nasal Mucous Membrane. — In many cases the nasal mucous membrane pre- sents a red and swollen appearance; if the affection is unilateral, there is a marked con- trast in this respect between the two chambers. The inferior turbinated body is frequently tur- gescent, preventing inspection of the deeper parts, and necessitating the application to it of cocaine; occasionally the mucosa presents a dry, glazed appearance, associated with some atrophy of the inferior turbinated body. The nostril may be completely blocked by one or more large polypi, so that their removal is, in the first instance, a preliminary to further examina- tion. One or more small polypi confined to the middle meatus are somewhat significant of sinus disease. (b) The Prese7ice of Pus.—Pus may be visible upon the inferior turbinated body, on the floor of the nose, or on the septum anteriorly, but the observer's attention must be turned par- ticularly to two situations, namely, the middle meatus and the olfactory cleft. We shall, in the first instance, consider a case in which pus is observed in the middle meatus (Figs. 2 and 4). The detection of a drop of pus in this region under cover of the middle turbinated body is highly suggestive of sinus disease, and the sinuses of the anterior group, namely, the maxillary antrum, frontal sinus, and anterior ethmoidal cells should be suspected. The posi- tion of the pus in the meatus affords no reliable guide as to which of these cavities is actually its source. If no pus be visible in this situa- tion it must not be at once assumed that there is no further necessity for considering it. We must at once proceed to investigate the case by other means at our disposal. Posterior rhinoscopy may reveal a purulent discharge in the nasopharynx ; it may be de- tected in the choana of the suspected side, or a favourable examination will disclose a drop of pus on the upper surface of the inferior turbinated body, that is, in the middle meatus posteriorly (Fig. 2). This sign is of considerable value