NOSE—TNFLAMMATOEY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 121 that the extent of the cavity in its various directions and the position of the intervening septum may be definitely ascertained. Pus probably escapes from the sinus during this manoeuvre. If the cavity is found to be a small one the opening is only slightly enlarged; but if there is a considerable upward or outward extension of the cavity, more bone must then be removed either with the chisel or with some form of cutting forceps. The supra-orbital margin for cosmetic reasons should not be inter- fered with, as a greater falling in of the soft parts follows in consequence of this. Practice differs with regard to the amount of bone that is taken away, a point which will be dealt with later. It must, however, be borne in mind that a large sinus can be satisfactorily treated with- out interfering to any great extent with its anterior wall, thus greatly lessening the risk of future disfigurement. After carefully mopping out the cavity with gauze and inspecting its interior so far as is possible, the thickened and often polypoid lining- membrane is curetted with the sharp spoon. The various curved instruments referred to under Antral Treatment are equally serviceable here. Careful attention must be directed to the investigation of all recesses and subdivisions of the cavity. This remark applies especially to the external angle of the sinus where these anatomical irregularities more frequently occur. Failure to remove the disease from such areas may render the treatment abortive. The septum and the condition of the bony walls must also be examined, and any deficiency in them duly recognised. The frequent backward extension of the sinus along the roof of the orbit must also be explored. The next step in the operation, and one on which m\ich of its success depends, consists in enlarging the ostium frontale and fronto-nasal passage in order to establish a free opening into the nose, and at the same time to remove every trace of diseased mucous membrane not pre- viously dealt with by intranasal treatment. This may be effected by means of sharp spoons of varying size. Herbert Tilley employs a series of curved burs of progressive sizes for this purpose. The operator may find it expedient, in the first place, to pass a probe from the sinus into the nose, which serves, so to speak, as a pilot. The diseased anterior ethmoidal cells are thus destroyed by curetting, and a large opening made through which the little finger may be passed. The cavity is then thoroughly dried and carefully inspected, after which its interior is swabbed with pure carbolic acid, and packed through the forehead incision with iodoform worsted or gauze, or with Lister's double cyanide dressing. The end of the worsted is brought out through the lower angle of the skin incision ; the periosteum and soft parts are replaced, and the wound accurately sutured, with the excep- tion of the small portion occupied by the end of the worsted strand. No drainage tube or strip of gauze is passed from the sinus into the nose. A superficial dressing and bandage, which neces- sitates the covering in of the eye at the same time, are applied. The after-treatment is regulated by the tem- perature and the appearance of the wound. It is advisable to remove the bandage in twenty- four or thirty-six hours in order to inspect the eye, as in one case I found that conjunctivitis had been accidentally induced during tlie opera- tion. If the wound follows an aseptic course the packing may be left in situ for seven or eight days, and then removed. The small aper- ture then readily closes, or healing may be assisted by the introduction of a suture. The stitches should be removed at the earliest oppor- tunity so as to avoid any future marking from this cause. The short curved incision does not lend itself to the introduction of a subcutaneous suture. Unfortunately, recurrence of suppuration in the sinus may take place, an undesirable result, which is probably due to its reinfection from the nose, from failure to remove all the diseased lining membrane, or from overlooking some area of carious bone. In some cases it is pos- sible by opening up the wound, and by daily irrigation and packing of the cavity, to again establish an aseptic condition, but it may prove necessary to carry out a second or even a third operation before a successful result is obtained. Several cases have now been recorded in which an acute osteomyelitis of the frontal bone has resulted from surgical interference, followed by meningitis or a general septicaemia terminating in death. I have thus endeavoured to sketch the opera- tion which is more or less successfully performed at the present time, and which appears to satisfy surgical requirements in the majority of cases. It closely resembles the method usually referi-ed to as the Ogston-Luc operation, although differ- ing in some minor points of detail. The latter surgeon after packing the sinus brings the lower end of the gauze plug into the nasal chamber, completely closing the skin incision. This plug he removes through the anterior naris two or three days later. Walker Downie, after bring- ing the outer end of the gauze strip through the opening in the bone, passes it through a small buttonhole incision made in the skin close to the reflection of the upper eyelid, and concealed beneath the supra-orbital margin ; the eyebrow incision is then completely closed. I have found this method satisfactory, permitting as it does accurate apposition of the edges of the wound, while the buttonhole is afterwards hardly visible. It possesses this disadvantage, however, that if the cavity should require to be repacked, it cannot be done through the buttonhole, and therefore it necessitates the reopening of the