PELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR 383 scribed. The incision is H-shaped instead of U-shaped. The transverse part of the incision (the cross-line of the H) runs along the edge of the recto-vaginal septum until the skin is reached on either side. The incision is then carried for- ward on each side of the vagina just as in operating for incom- plete tear. Then it is carried backward on each side of the anus (so completing the upright lines of the H), so as to fully expose the torn and retracted ends of the sphincter ani. The recto-vaginal septum must be split for some distance, say three-quarters of an inch, so as to sepai'- ate the vaginal and rectal walls well above the level to which they were torn. The forward and backward por- tions of the incision must be deepened accordingly by snips with the scissors until good flaps of tissue, freed from the sides of the " cloaca," can be turned forward and backward respectively. In suturing, the integrity of the anal canal is first restored. This is best done by interrupted sutures of cat-gut. The first suture is passed at the point of the tear which is highest up in the rectum, being inserted from the rectum into the wound on one side and from the wound back into the rectum on the other side, so that when the suture is tightened and tied the knot lies within the rectum and not in the wound. It comes away per anum when the portion of cat- gut within the tissues is absorbed. The next stitch is passed in the same way nearer the surface, and so on until the anal canal is once more complete, its front half being formed by the flaps of tissue separated from the sides of the cloaca by the backward portions of the in- cision. A finger introduced into the new anus enters it quite easily, for as yet the ends of the sphincter have not been firmly drawn together. This should next be done, and for this purpose it is well to use one or two stitches of silkworm- gut passed so as to take a solid grip of the tissues at the hinder ends of the backward limbs of the incision. These should be tightened until the tip of the little finger is firmly gripped on gently passing it into the anus. The sphincter has shortened while thrown out of use; it lengthens again after its function is restored. Fig. 4.—Incision for repair of com- plete perineal tear, o, anal wall; b, anterior vaginal wall; e, torn septum. Incision runs right and left forwards to e and d, and baclt- wards to / and c. On suturing /and c come together, alsoeand d. (Hart and Barbour.) and if the anus be not made apparently too tight at the operation, it will be found to be too loose after healing has occurred. The wound is now the same in shape and nature as that made in operating for incomplete tear, and may be closed either by interrupted sutures or by a continuous suture of chromic acid cat-gut as above described. In addition to the after-treat- ment necessary when the tear is incomplete, the operation for complete rupture must be followed by special attention to the rectum. It is no longer customary to keep the bowel at rest for several days. To give the best chance of perfect healing the rectum should be washed out every day for a week after the operation with a pint or more of warm water containing a little lysol, creolin, or boracic acid. The enema syringe should not be used for this purpose ; but the fluid should be gently run into the rectum and out of it again through a yard or so of rubber tubing of the diameter of the little finger. A glass funnel is attached to one end of the tube, and the other end is gently passed into the anus, no nozzle being necessary. This washing of the rectum, combined with a mild aperient on the second evening after the operation, usually brings away a considerable amount of fsecal matter without any strain to the newly repaired anal canal and sphincter. If the patient be kept on fluid food for three or four days, and if the bowel has been well, emptied before the operation, all will be well. If, however, from neglect of these precautions there be solid matter in the bowel, it must be carefully re- moved by enemata as occasion arises, a few ounces of olive oil being injected before the patient is allowed to expel a solid motion. The controlling sutures of silkworm-gut should be removed about the twelfth day. The patient must be kept at rest for three weeks. Aperients must be used until the sphincter is completely and firmly united. 3. Rectocele.—While the anterior rectal wall forms a part of the fixed portion of the pelvic floor, the posterior vaginal wall loosely attached to it is a part of the movable portion of the pelvic floor. In displacements of the movable portion the vaginal wall usually is separated from the rectal wall, the latter remaining in or near its usual position. Sometimes, however, the rectal wall becomes pouched downward and forward, and, covered by the posterior vaginal wall, protrudes at the vulva as a swelling vary- ing in size according to the presence in it or absence from it of fseces. Tears of the perineum, combined with the pressure of fsecal accumula- tions due to a constipated habit, are the factors that produce this condition, which is easily dis- tinguished from prolapsus uteri by passing a finger into the rectum, when it is recognised that a pouch of the latter organ occupies the swelling observed at the vulva. In uncompli- cated rectocele the uterus, bladder, and anterior