PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 543 verge. It is not possible by voluntary effort to diverge the optic axis or to rotate the eyes round antero-posterior axes. " Glance " Movements of the Eyes.—When the eyes are allowed to sweep over a landscape or No e In. 01. SR InR. UR. Fig. 71.—The movements of the pupil caused by the various muscles of the eye. (Right eye.) any series of objects, or when these move rapidly past the eyes, or the eyes rapidly past them, as in travelling by train, the axes are directed in a series of glances to different points, and the succession of pictures thus got gives the idea of the continuous series of objects. This jerking movement of the eyes may be well seen in a passenger looking out of a railway carriage in motion. Nervous Mechanism.—A somewhat complex nervous mechanism presides over these various movements of the eyes. All the muscles are supplied by the third cranial nerve, except the superior oblique, which is supplied by the fourth nerve, and the external rectus, which is supplied by the sixth nerve (Fig. 72; see also Fig. 95, p. 558). The centres for the third and fourth nerves are situated in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius under the corpora quadrigemina, while the centre for the sixth is in the pons Varolii (Fig. 96, p. 559, and Fig. 95). The various centres are joined by bands of nerve fibres which pass between the sixth and fourth and third centres, and in part at least cross the middle line. A combined mechanism, each part of which acts harmoniously with the other parts, thus presides over the ocular movements, and this mechanism is controlled by impulses constantly received from the two retinae, from the ears and from the brain. Thus in convergence of the optic axes the parts of the nuclei of the third nerves which supply the internal recti muscles must act harmoniously together, and hence a mechanism to direct this convergence may be postulated. In lateral deviation of the eyes that part of the nucleus of the third nerve which presides over the internal rectus of one side acts harmoniously with the sixth nerve supplying the external rectus of the other side, and hence it may be supposed that a directing mechanism for lateral deviation exists possibly in the superior olive. Similarly a centre or centres presiding over the movements of the eyes in a vertical plane may be supposed to exist. Fig. 72.—The nervous mechanism pre- siding over the combined movements of the two eyes. I.E., Internal rec- tus; £.i£., external rectus; CO., con- vergent centre acting on the internal recti througli the nuclei of the third nerve; S.O., superior olive (centre for lateral divergence) acting on the ex- ternal rectus of the same side through the nucleus of the sixth, and on the internal rectus of the opposite side through the nucleus of the third ; E, ear. Paralysis of these muscles and of the nerves supplying them leads to a loss of the co-ordinated movements of the two eyes, with the result that the optic axes are no longer parallel and squint is produced. As a result of this, corresponding points on the two retinae are not stimulated by rays from the same object, and double vision—- d iplopia—-re- sults. The image formed upon the normal eye may be called the true image, that on the affected eye the false image. The false image seems to occupy a place in the field of vision on that side of the true image to- wards which the paralysed muscle should direct the eye. Thus when the sixth nerve and its muscle, the external rectus, are para- lysed on the right side, the false image is seen to the right of the true image. When the third nerve of the right eye, under the action of which the eye is directed upwards and in- wards, is paralysed, the false image appears above and to the left of the true image. In long-standing cases of squint the false image is suppressed or ignored by the consciousness. The movements of the eyes involve not merely the contraction of definite muscles, but also the co-ordinated inhibition of others (see p. 542). 2. Connections op the Eyes with the Central Nervous System From each eye the optic nerve extends back- wards and inwards to join the other optic nerve at the chiasma. From the chiasma the two optic tracts pass upwards round the crura cerebri to end in two divisions—- 1. A posterior division passing to the anterior corpora quadrigemina on the same side (Fig. 73, A.C.Q.; see also p. 562). 2. An anterior division running to the geni- culate body on the posterior aspect of the thalamus opticus (Fig. 73, Op. Th.). In most of the lower animals a complete decussation of the optic fibres takes place, so that the nerve fibres from the left eye go to the right side of the brain, and vice versa. But in man and apes a partial crossing of the fibres takes place in the chiasma—fibres from the middle and internal part of the retina decus-