(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 165 a rest for a few weeks it may be more easily treated. Spasm of the (Esophagus : CEsophagismus.— These are cases in which symptoms of obstruc- tion occur without any organic change whatever in the tube, and in which the obstruction is due to a spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat at some part of the tube, generally the upper end. It is possible to get spasm of the oeso- phagus in the neighbourhood of an ulcer, etc., but this is quite different from the form here described. (Esophagismus is met with generally in women between the ages of eighteen and thirty years, and seems to occur chiefly in persons of a neurotic temperament. Symptoms.—Very often so-called hysterical symptoms precede an attack. Then quite suddenly there is regurgitation of food, some- times of liquid as well as solid. This spasm is very often associated with vomiting or coiighing. This difficulty may recur several times for several successive days, and sometimes there is an interval of a few days. The symptoms disappear just as suddenly as they appeared. The symptoms may recur after several weeks or months. Pain, as a rule, is absent, although sensations of discomfort are commonly com- plained of in the region of the neck. The recurrent attacks may last for several years. In a woman seen by the author they had occurred at frequent intervals for twelve years. Diagnosis.—As a rule this is quite easy. The sudden onset and the sudden disappearance of symptoms are unlike any organic strictures. The age, sex, and temperament of the patient are points highly suggestive of spasmodic stricture. Exploration with a bougie generally enables us to exclude organic stricture. In another patient of the author's it was, however, necessary to give an anfesthetic before a bougie could be passed, as the spasm was so great that no justifiable force could overcome it. Treatment.—In nearly all cases the passage of an oesophageal bougie on one or a few occasions is sufficient. If there is a distinctly neurotic temperament the general treatment for that condition should be systematically carried out. In a patient with a fixed idea that there is a mechanical obstruction, the passage of bougies gradiially increasing in size will soon dispel it. Paralysis of the (Esophagus is occasionally met with in certain diseases of the central nervous system. In such diseases there is generally a group of symptoms, of which those concerning the oesophagus are only a part, and often quite a subordinate feature in the case. Oesophageal symptoms are usually some diffi- cvdty in swallowing, the presence of hiccough, and an irritating cough. For a full description of this trouble see " Paralysis, Bulbar," etc. Dilatation of the (Esophagus and (Esopha- geal Pouches.—The oesophagus may be uni formly dilated at any part of its course, or it may be dilated at one part of its circumference, so that a pouch or diverticulum is formed. Uniform dilatation of the oesophagus may be congenital or may be due to a fibrous stricture. According to some authors uniform dilatation may be associated with cancer, but this is very seldom met with if at all. It requires a con- siderable time for an obstruction to cause dilatation of the tube above, and in all proba- bility there is not sufficient time in the case of cancer for this dilatation to develop. In cases where there are several fibrous strictures in the oesophagus there may be a series of dilatations, one above each stricture. Stricture of the cardiac orifice is the one which most often leads to dilatation, but even stenosis of the pylorus has been known to produce it. In the case of these fusiform dilatations the muscular and connective tissue coats are generally hyper- trophied, the mucous membrane remaining in- tact. This fusiform dilatation of the oesophagus presents no points of special interest apart from the fibrous stricture with which it is always associated. There are certain congenital cases which are always associated with congenital stenosis of the cardiac end of the tube. Of greater interest are the diverticula or oesophageal pouches. These fall into two groups: those formed by traction from without, and those formed by pressure from within. The diver- ticula formed by traction from without are usually small and generally situated near the bifurcation of the trachea, in the region of the lymphatic glands of the mediastinum. They are caused by the formation of cicatricial tissue following inflammatory lesions of the lymphatic glands and pleura. As a rule they consist solely of mucous membrane, and therefore are very liable to be perforated by a foreign body. Owing to their situation they may lead to very grave complications by becoming adherent to such impoi'tant structures as the aorta, peri- cardium, bronchi, etc., especially by ulceration occurring in these structures. The diverticula formed by pressure from within are much more common and of more practical importance. Their ordinary seat is the junction of the pharynx with the oesophagus, and they are generally supposed to have some relation to the branchial clefts. In all proba- bility these diverticula are very minute at first, and increase in size very gradually, so that it may be many years before they are sufficiently large to cause an}' symptoms. As a rule they have no muscular tissue around them, but simply consist of mucous membrane. Symptoms. — It is only when the pouch acquires a certain size that it can cause any symptoms, and the first one is usually a slight difficulty in swallowing. This difficulty in- creases as the meal progresses, and is due to