547 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM a complex membranous bag, the membranous labyrinth. In the vestibule this is divided into two little sacs—the utricle, related to the semicircular canals, and the saccule, related to the cochlea. They are joined together by a slender canal. From the saccule comes off a canal which runs into the cochlea upon the basilar membrane, form- ing a middle channel between the other two—the scala media or membranous cochlea. This ter- minates blindly at the apex. From the utricle a membranous canal extends into each of the bony semicircular canals, being provided with an ampulla, which nearly fills up the bony ampulla, while the canal portion is small, and occupies only a small part of the bony canal (Fig. 76, p. 545). In the membranous cochlea the lining cells form the organ of Corti (Fig. 79). This is set upon the basilar membrane, and consists from Fl8. 79.—TransverBe section through one turn of the cochlea to show the organ of Corti on the basilar membrane. S.M., Scala media; scala vestibuli; S.T., scala tympani. within, outwards, of—1st. A set of elongated supporting cells; 2nd. A row of columnar cells, with short, stiff, hair-like processes projecting from their free border; 3rd. The inner rods of Corti, each of which may be compared to an ulnar bone attached by its terminal end, and fitting on to the heads of the outer rods; ith. The outer rods of Corti, each resembling a swan's head and neck—the neck attached to the basilar membrane, and the back of the head fitting into the hollow surface of the inner rods; 5th. Several rows of outer hair cells, with some spindle-shaped cells among them; 6tk. The outer supporting cells; 7th. Lying over the inner and outer hair-cells is the membrana re- ticularis, resembling a net, through the meshes of which the hairs project; 8th. Arching over this organ is a homogeneous membrane—the membrana tectoria. The membranous labyrinth is attached to the inner wall of the bony labyrinth at certain points, through which fibres of the VIII. nerve to the terminal organs enter it. One set of fibres goes to the utricle and to the ampullae. A quite independent set, the true auditory nerve, goes to the saccule and the cochlea. The membranous labyrinth has an outer fibrous coat, and inside this a homogeneous layer which is markedly thickened where the nerves enter it. It is lined by flattened epi- thelium, which becomes columnar, and is covered with stiff hair-like processes over the thickenings at the entrance of the nerves. On the top of these hair-like processes lies a little mass of calcareous nodules imbedded in a mucus-like substance, the otoliths. In the fish and some lower animals the otoliths are large structures. The terminal neurons of both the vestibule and the cochlea end in dendrites between the hair cells, and the cells of these neurons is upon their course to the medulla. 5. Connection with the Central Nervous System. —The VIII. nerve is essentially double, con- sisting of a dorsal cochlear or auditory part, and a ventral labyrinthine or vestibular part. Cochlear Root (Fig. 80).—This is the true nerve of hearing. Its fibres, Coch.R., begin in dendrites between the hair cells of the organ of CB. N.vi. ^ Oc.M. Fia. 80.—Connections of cochlea with central nervous system. Coch.R., Cochlear root of eighth nerve ; N.Acc, tuberculum acusticum and nucleus accessorius sendins fibres to the cerebrum (CB.) and to the oculo-motor mechanism (iV.vi.); CEL., cerebellum. Corti, have a cell upon their course, and when they enter the medulla branch into two divisions, which end either in the tuberculum acusticum or the nucleus accessorius, N.Acc, where they