PARALYSIS 269 Myotatic Irritability {Tendon Rejlexes). — These phenomena are responses of muscles in a state of tonus to mechanical stimulation applied in a certain way. They are increased, diminished, or lost in proportion as the muscular tone is increased or diminished. They are only reflex in the sense that the muscle tone necessary for their production is dependent upon the integrity of the reflex arc. The above physiological considerations are absolutely necessary for the clinical study of spastic paraplegia. We have seen that in man the muscle tone depends upon the integrity of two entirely distinct nervous mechanisms— firstly, the reflex arc consisting of sensory nerve, spinal segment, and motor nerve ; and, secondly, the integrity of the higher parts of the nervous system and the tracts connecting these with the spinal segments. Classification of the diseases in which spastic paraplegia is a characteristic symptom :— A. Diseases of the nervous system in which spastic paraplegia appears as a primary symptom. (1) Diseases confined to the pyramidal system— Primary lateral sclerosis. Familial spastic paraplegia. Cerebral diplegia. (2) Diseases affecting the pyramidal system and other parts of the nervous system— Disseminated sclerosis. Ataxic paraplegia. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Hereditary cerebellar ataxy of Marie. Syringomyelia. Spina bifida. General paralysis of the insane (certain cases). Syphilitic paraplegia. (3) Diseases of probable toxic origin— Pellagra. Lathyrism. Subacute combined degeneration. B. Diseases of the nervous system in which spastic paraplegia results as a secondary process— Acute myelitis. Hsematomyelia. Spinal meningitis. C. Injury to the nervous system— 1. By gradual pressure. Tumours of the spinal cord or meninges. Tumours arising in or secondarily involving the vertebral canal, aneurysm. Spinal caries. Pachymeningitis. 2. By sudden violence. Fractured dislocation of the spine. Gunshot and other wounds of the spinal cord. From this it will be seen that where spastic paraplegia exists there must be some loss of the influence usually exerted by the pyramidal system upon the spinal segments, either from degeneration of the nerve elements or interrup- tion of the spinal fibres of that system. The spinal segments must be themselves capable of carrying on their reflex functions, and this last condition requires that there is still some con- nection of the spinal segments with the higher parts of the nervous system. The lesions producing spastic paraplegia may be situated at any part of the pyramidal path from the cortex of the Rolandic area to the upper limit of the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. In the cerebral hemispheres such lesions must of necessity be bilateral to produce paraplegia, and the resulting conditions are distinguished by the term " diplegia," which indicates a lesion of cerebral location. In the base of the brain, pons, and medulla oblongata the pyramidal tracts are less widely separated, and may be simultaneously involved by a lesion of considerable size, but it is in the spinal cord, where these tracts are close together, that the pathological conditions which produce spastic paraplegia are most often situated. In primary spastic paraplegia and in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, however, the whole length of the pyramidal tract is aff"ected by a degenerative process. The nature of the lesions is most varied, and may be either a degenerative process primary in the nerve elements, a vascular lesion, a new- growth, or injury to the nervous system by gradual pressure or sudden violence. Clinical Aspect.—The essential features of spastic paraplegia, loss of power, with rigidity and increase of the deep reflexes, are rarely the sole conditions present, and it is only in primary degenerative conditions of the pyramidal system that other symptoms are entirely absent. For a time, however, such a simple picture may be present in the early stages of many of the above-mentioned diseases, especially in dissemi- nated sclerosis and in compression of the spinal cord. The majority of lesions aflect other systems besides the pyramidal, and signs of involvement of the sensory tracts, and perhaps of the grey matter, occur with or are added to those of simple spastic paraplegia. The pyramidal sys- tem appears to be less resistant to the eff'ects of pressure, sclerosis, and vascular lesions of slow occurrence than the other structures of the spinal cord, and perhaps this feature may