OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 204 invaginated into the ovarian stroma; but there is some difference of opinion as to how this invagination occurs. Some, inchiding certain very recent observers, believe that portions of the superficial epithelium become buried in the cortex by inflammatory or other accidental changes (Nagel, Gusserow, Opitz). Indeed, Opitz traces uterine and tubal myoma as well as ovarian cystic disease to inflammatory changes. Others look on the involution as a teratological condition. Some, maintaining that the involuted structures normally develop into some or all of the elements of an ovum and its follicles, believe that through some morbid influence some of those structures develop into a cyst. This theory comes near to the doctrine that the glandular cyst is developed from a previously normal follicle, the change having nothing to do with any involution. This doctrine is plausible, but objectors immediately point out the difference in the epithelium in the follicle and in the tumour. Yet amongst current authorities Hofmeier had detected and figured epithelial involutions from follicles forcing their way into the stroma, whilst Pfannenstiel has recorded and sketched the remains of an ovum in a minute cyst lined with a perfect layer of columnar epithelium, and adjacent to undoubted glandular cystic structures. We mvist not deny that the cubi- cal epithelium of the follicle can, under any circumstances, alter its character. Pozzi and Beaussenat believe that ovarian cysts may develop from both the sources above mentioned. They certainly seem to prove, on the evidence of sections from one case, that at least cancer of the ovary may develop from the epithelium of the Graafian follicles. In the further study of this subject care must be taken about conclu- sions drawn from appearances in sections of a small ovary, the fellow to a glandular ovarian cyst. Such appearances may erroneously be taken to indicate incipient cystic disease. Histogenesis of the Papillomatous Cyst.—The " cystoma ovarii papillare," or " cystadenoma serosum papillare," is certainly different from the commoner or glandular cyst. Whitridge Williams claims to have detected papillomatous growths sprouting from the interior of a well- developed Graafian follicle. But Wendeler and others threw some doubt on Williams' theory, based on five specimens, that papilloma arises from the Graafian follicles. It is not clear how many of the ovaries examined by that observer were really about to become papillomatous cysts. The older theory that papillomata arise from relics of the mesonephron, portions of the Wolffian ducts which penetrate the paroophoron, or even enter the obphoron, was strongly maintained by Coblenz. Bland-Sutton and the author have supported it on naked-eye evidence. This kind of cyst tends to burrow between the layers of the broad ligament; now the paro- ophoron lies in the folds of the broad ligament. Pure papilloma of the broad ligament, with the adjacent ovary unaffected, is not rarely seen, and would appear to arise from the parovarium or mesonephron. On the other hand, cystic papilloma may form a well-pedunculated tumour like a glandular cyst, or papillomatous and glandular cysts may be blended in one pedun- culated ovarian tumour, as though relics of the mesonephron which normally exist in the obphoron had given rise to tumours of this class. Kossmann has recently traced papillomatous tumours to Miiller's duct. He has certainly succeeded in showing that minute "accessory Fallopian tubes " bearing fimbriated epithelium are often scattered over the surface of the broad ligament and ovary. The ovarian fimbria, lined with similar epithelimu, sends detached pro- cesses on to and even into the ovary. These scattered elements tend, Kossmann maintains, to become encysted. Still the parovarian or mesonephric origin of papillomatous cysts seems based on stronger evidence. Histogenesis of Dermoid Cysts. — The well- known tumour which contains epidermic struc- tures, bone, nerve, etc., develops in the oophoron. We know that it does so; our ignorance why it does so must not be covered by cunningly devised phrases like " foetal inclusion " or " par- thenogenesis." One of the very latest writers traces dermoids to " atypic, parthenogenetic ova." There seems little doubt that they arise in Graafian follicles. Pregnancy in a follicle, we must remember, is almost if not quite unknown. Even van Tussenbroek's case of alleged early ovarian gestation may be akin to an incipient ovarian dermoid. It has been hinted by Bland- Sutton and others that dermoids and common glandular cysts are closely related, the latter being tumours with the power of developing mucous glands, the former tumours that can develop a far greater variety of structures. Simple Cysts : Dropsy of the Follicles,— This affection is apparently nothing more than an extreme form of the " follicular hypertrophy" already described as a variety of chronic oopho- ritis. The ovary may become as large as a hen's egg ; the dilated follicle sometimes bears a layer of cubical epithelium on its inner wall ; two or three such cysts are not rarely found (" oligocystic tumour "). It is not always easy to distinguish these cysts, direct results of in- flammation, from an incipient cystoma. This fact accounts for the differences of opinion amongst authorities on the nature of small cysts. Corpus luteum cysts are probably of the same origin; they may exceed two inches in diameter. The Common Ovarian Cyst.—This tumour is also termed "cystadenoma pseudomucinosum," or glandular ovarian cyst. Its outer wall is at first silvery-white, with moderately large vessels, but when extensively riddled with minute cysts