PELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM 388 As an alternative, the posterior fornix may be freely opened and the sac closed up by sutures. Pelvis—Diseases of the Cellular Tissue and Peritoneum Pelvic Cellulitis ..... 388 Pelvic Peritonitis .... 389 Rarer Affection of Peritonitis and Cellulitis ..... 390 I. Pelvic Cellulitis As the name implies, this consists of an in- flammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis. Until comparatively recently it was generally known by the name of parametritis, a term which now, fortunately, has almost entirely been given up as imscientific and confusing. The cellular tissue of the pelvis has a well- defined distribution. It may be described as mainly forming a ring round the cervix at the utero-vaginal juncture (the parametrium); from this ring processes of tissue pass in several defined directions. Backwards to the sacrum, the utero-sacral ligaments, laterally between the layei's of the broad ligaments, and forwards along the roimd ligaments. Each process is shut off by the so-called lines of cleavage de- scribed by Konig, a point of great clinical importance, as giving the direction of the in- flammatory exudations when the cellular tissue is infected. Below it is bounded by the pelvic fascia upon which it may be said to lie, while above it is loosely covered by the peritoneum. Ordinarily it measures about one-third of an inch in thickness, but during pregnancy is enormously increased. Primary inflammation of the cellular tissue is always infective. Most commonly a direct inoculation of the parametric ring through lacerations of the cervix or upper end of the vagina, but rarely also through absorption— through the uterine wall, as shown by Polk and Lewers. It will thus be evident that the majority of cases occur after full-time labours, when lacerations of the cervix are prone to occur, or after operative procedures on the uterus where the cervical continuity has been interfered with. Clinical Features.—Acute pelvic cellulitis may be ushered in by a well-marked rigor, which in puerperal cases occurs about the second or third day after delivery. In a large number of cases, however, the onset is slower; a subacute inflammatory state is here primarily present, which is recognised only by an elevated evening temperature, 100° to 101° F., and a persistent increase in the pulse-rate, unassoci- ated with any constitutional symptoms whatever. After many days the subacute may pass into the acute condition, a change which is marked by a rigor and constitutional symptoms. Pain is unusual in uncomplicated cases, and betokens involvement of the peritoneum. The symptoms vary materially according to whether there is suppuration; should pus form, the patient soon assumes an emaciated hectic appearance and looks extremely ill. The skin is dry, tongue furred, bowels constipated, and temper at first irritable, but later the disposition tends towards the phlegmatic. The pulse remains persistently over 100°, and the temperature swings violently between 100° and 104° F. Where there is simple exudation without suppuration, the symptoms are milder; perhaps the most important difference is the temperature, which is rarely over 102° F. Should the exuda- tion be present in the neighbourhood of the psoas and iliacus muscles the patient will usu- ally be noticed to keep the thigh flexed on the abdomen to relieve tension on the muscle. Care should in these cases be taken to prevent permanent contraction of the knee-joint by daily straightening the knee by lifting the foot. The course of the disease is as in other in- flammations, viz., resolution and absorption or abscess formation with subsequent rupture and evacuation of the pus. Absorption is extremely slow, and thickened deposits may be found in the pelvis many months after all symptoms have subsided. Abscess formation occurs in a considerable number of cases. It usually points from the seventh to the twelfth week. The situation where pointing may occur must neces- sarily vary according to the line of inflammatory exudation which is influenced by the lines of cleavage of the cellular tissue. Most frequently the area of infiltration is between the layers of the broad ligament; it then passes forward under the peritoneum to the anterior abdomxinal wall above Poupart's ligament, and then outwards and backwards into the iliac fossa. Abscesses developing posteriorly fill the pos- tero-lateral part of the pelvis, then pass along the psoas and iliacus, and then sink into the true pelvis. When the exudation passes an- teriorly, pointing usually takes place on the anterior abdominal wall slightly above Poupart's ligament. When posterior, however, burrowing is very extensive, and may pass through the sciatic notch or be found in Scarpa's triangle, having found its way along the course of the femoral vessels. Extremely rarely is it that an abscess ruptures into any of the hollow viscera; nearly all such cases are perimetric in their origin. Diagnosis.—This must depend on the recog- nition of the inflammatory exudation by the bimanual method of examination. In the ma- jority of instances from the implication of the parametrium the intra-vaginal portion of the cervix will be found fixed, shortened, or obliter- ated, while passing from it will be felt a difiiise brawny mass depressing the lateral fornix vaginje. Should the exudation have spread anteriorly, the