OVERCROWDING 218 the public health : it is dealt with (but not defined) under the Public Health Act of 1875 (England and Wales). In lodging-houses 300 cubic feet of air space must be provided for each person above ten years of age, and 400 cubic feet in sleeping rooms. See Typhus Fever {Etiology). Over-Exertion. See Heart, Diseases OF Myocardium and Endocardium {General Pathology, Etiology, Mechanical). Overlaying^ or Overlying^. See Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia, Suffocation, Smothering and Overlaying). See also Asphyxia {Causes, Suffocation and Over- laying). Overtime.—By Sanitary Law the matter of working overtime in factories, workshops, etc. is dealt with and regulated. Oviducts. See Fallopian Tubes. Oviparous.—Giving birth to eggs; in oviparous animals the young one is expelled from the iiterus at an earlier stage of develop- ment than is the case in viviparous animals, and a stage of incubation has to follow before the young one is mature. Ovisac.— The Graafian follicle of the human ovary. See Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries, Microscojncal A];>pearances). OVO-.—In compound words ovo- (Lat. ovum, an egg) means relating to the egg or ovum. Ovoferrin.—A preparation said to consist largely of organic iron ; it is given (in doses of 2 drachms) as a blood tonic. Ovoid.—Egg-shaped, elliptical; the term fa;tal ovoid is given to the mass formed by the foetus in utero, which, on account of the attitude of flexion of the foetus, is ovoid in shape—the larger end of the ovoid being formed by the breech and lower limbs of the infant, the smaller by the head. See Labour, Physiology of {Passenger, Disposition in Utero). Ovotestis.—The name given to the sexual gland in some cases of hermaphroditism, in which it consists of an ovarian portion and of a testicular portion, so far, at any rate, as their anatomical appearances go; in some invertebrate animals the ovotestis would seem to produce both ova and spermatozoa. Ovula Nabothi. See Nabothian Cysts or Follicles. Ovulation.—The series of changes which take place in the ovary when a Graafian follicle matures, when dehiscence of it takes place, when it passes from the ovary into tlie Fallopian tube and so on into the uterus, and when the empty follicle becomes a corpus biteum ; so ovulation comprises four processes—those of maturation of the ovum, dehiscence of the ovisac, migration of the ovum, and formation of the corpus luteum. See FcETUS AND Ovum, Development of ; Genera- tion, Female Organs op {Ovaries); Menstrua- tion AND ITS Disorders {Relation to Ovulation); Sterility {Etiology, Defective Ovulation). Ovum.—The egg (plural, ova). See Foetus AND Ovum, Development of ; Pregnancy, Path- ology OF, Ovum and Decidua {Apoplectic Ova, etc.); Teratology {Diseases of the Ovum). Oxal-.—In compound words oxal- {oxalis, wood-sorrel) means relating to oxalic acid or to the radical oxalyl (C^O.,). Oxalsemia. — The somewhat problem- atical state of the blood in which it is believed to show the presence of oxalates. Oxalan. See Alloxan. Oxalates.—^ Salts of oxalic acid, e.g. oxalate of calcium, of ammonium, of cerium, and of sodiima. Oxalates occur in nature in wood-sorrel {oxalis acetosella), rhubarb, lichens, etc. ; they may be present in excessive amount in the urine {oxaluria) and in the sputum. See Expectoration {Microscojncal Examination, Crystals); Hemoglobinuria {Urine); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sediments, Calcium Oxalate). Oxalic Acid.—A poisonous acid (CgH.^O^ or C2O22HO) of the dibasic series, from which various salts are formed (oxalates); the oxalic acid diathesis is that state of the body in which there is a tendency to the formation of oxalate of lime in the urine. See G^sophagus, Injuries AND Diseases {Inflammation, Causes) ; Physi- ology, Excretion {Urine Composition, Oxalic Acid), Toxicology {Inorganic Poisons, Cor- rosives, Oxalic Acid); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Oxaluria). Oxaluria.—The presence in the urine of oxalate of lime in excessive amount. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Oxaluria). See also Gout {Irregular Gout, Renal System); Liver, Diseases of {Hyperoemia, Tropical Liver, Signs, Oxaluria); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases OF {Testalgia, Causes); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symp)tomatology, Urinary Symptoms); Urethra, Diseases of {Inflam- mation, Causes). Oxal uric Acid.—An acid (monobasic) having the formula C3H^N204, and believed to be constituted of oxalic acid and urea minus water; its salts are termed oxalurates. Ox Gall. See Fel Bovinum Purificatum.