PELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM 389 brawny swelling will be felt under the anterior abdominal wall above Poupart's ligament and extending into the iliac fossa, while in posterior exudations a diffuse fulness and hardness of the posterior pelvic segment will be felt on the affected side, and rectal examination will show an infiltration in close proximity to the gvit, and in some instances surrounding it. The uterus may, from the size of the exudation, be pushed to one or other side, but usually retains a certain amount of mobility. Examination may or may not be painful; firm pressure on the exuded mass usually elicits tenderness, par- ticularly should suppuration have commenced. Chronic exudations frequently are entirely pain- less on pressure. The differential diagnosis from perimetric exudations is sometimes extremely difficult, and will be described under that affec- tion. From other pelvic swellings, such as tumours and hajmatomata, the presence of con- stitutional symptoms of fever will distinguish in acute and subacute cases, while chronic inflam- matory deposits can usually be told by the previoiis history of fever, etc. The prognosis is usually favourable. When no suppuration occurs, the fever usually sub- sides in a few weeks, and complete absorption, though slow, eventually takes place. Pus for- mation is distinguished by the maintenance and increase of the fever, which is present until evacu- ation takes place. After the pus has escaped, convalescence almost immediately occurs, chronic sinuses being rarely met with. Extension of the inflammation to the peritoneum of a severe type rarely occurs. Treatment.—Septic inflammation having oc- curred, it is doubtful if treatment can materi- ally modify this course. Locally, hot vaginal douching, 110° to 115° F., is of value in assist- ing absorption should suppuration not have oc- curred, while the absorption of chronic inflam- matory deposits is expedited by ichthyol in the form of vaginal plugs (10 per cent in glycerine), and inunction over the pelvic brim (15 per cent in lanoline or 5 per cent in vasogen). Should suppuration occur, little can be done but wait till signs of pointing occur, then free incision and drainage for a few days will be curative. Usually pointing occurs above Pou- part's ligament externally, but in rare cases it may be in the vaginal fornix, hip, or perineum. Incision should never be attempted till distinct evidence of fluctuation is present. Dui-ing the prolonged period of suppuration great attention must be directed to the con- servation of strength by good feeding. The internal administration of drugs is A'alueless; opium is specially to be decried unless great paiii is present, as it only interferes with diges- tion and locks the bowels, regular evacuation of which is most important and must be carefully attended to. II. Pelvic Peritonitis Is the term used for localised inflammation of the peritoneum within the pelvis. It is also known as perimetritis, and is perhaps the most common pelvic inflammatory affection. Recent investigations tend to show that it is probably never primary in its origin, but is the result of extension of other pelvic disease, and it may thus be frequently looked upon as indicative of pelvic mischief which has hitherto given no indication of its presence. By far the commonest cause is inflammation of the mucosa of the Fallopian tubes. From its direct continuity, on the one hand, with the vagina and uterus, and the peritoneum on the other, extension of inflammation is prone to travel by this route, and thus infections of all types—septic, tubercular, or gonorrhoeal—by this means reach the peritoneum. New growths of the ovary and inflammation of that organ are known sources of peritonitis, probably due to the fact that the ovary is not covered by perito- neum, but lies free in the peritoneal cavity. Simple uterine fibro-myomata, on the other hand, being extra-peritoneal, seldom gives rise to pelvic inflammation. Simple injury without septic infection is probably never a cause. Direct extension of inflammation of septic origin may occur through the wall of the uterus, but more frequently travels along the tubes. Thus operations on the body of the uterus, such as curettage, if carelessly undertaken, are a common source of pelvic peritonitis. Opera- tions on the cervix more frequently give rise to cellulitis. Extension of inflammation from pelvic cellu- litis is common, as also from appendicitis. So- called chills at menstrual periods, and sudden arrests of that function, though commonly thought to result in pelvic inflammation, cannot be considered as probable causes. Pathology. — From the exudations of plastic lymph adhesions form the most characteristic feature of the disease. Along with the lymph serum is also effused, and together they may form a thickened mass of exudation. As the serum becomes absorbed the lymph stiffens, and a hardened mass remains. This may gradually be absorbed, but frequently permanent ad- hesions result. In some instances pus instead of serum is formed, and localised peritoneal abscesses follow. From the tube being the common seat of original inflammation, the situa- tion of the exudation, if small, is usually behind the uterus which, along with the tubes and ovaries, are matted together on one or both sides. Intra-peritoneal abscesses walled in by adherent organs tend to rupture into the hollow viscera, and form fistulte which may last for many months or even years. Being due to diseased conditions of the organs, recurrent