PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 524 cord cut high up. One of the best examples is to be seen in the result which follows pressing the finger between the toes of the hind leg; the leg is forcibly extended as in forward progression, an act in which the other limbs must take their part before the first leg is again extended. Here a refractory period of very considerable duration supervenes on stimulation to allow of the other legs acting in proper sequence. The spinal reflexes are definite and purposive in character. This may be shown by placing on the thigh of a decerebrated frog a little piece of blotting-paper dipped in acetic acid. Definite and purposive movements for the removal of the paper are made by the leg, movements in- volving the co-ordinated and orderly consecutive action of certain muscles and the relaxation of other muscles. This implies the co-ordinated action of a number of outgoing neurons in re- sponse to a particular stimulation of a few in- going neurons, a co-ordinated action involving excitation of certain muscles and inhibition of others. This co-ordination in action must owe its origin to a process of evolution by which appropriate lines of conduction have been estab- lished in the spinal cord. The reciprocal excitation and inhibition of muscles is a feature of very great importance. It has been very fully studied by Sherrington Fig. 42.—To show play of different reflex arcs upon a motor neuron FC to the vasto-crureus muscle of dog, e. Stimula- tion of the ear, tail, fore foot, and pressure on the pad of tlie hind foot of the same side, all cause excitation, as also do stimulation of the shoulder of the opposite side and nocuous stimuli of the opposite hind foot. On the other hand, it is inhibited by stimulation of the shoulder of tlie same side, as in the scratch reflex and by nocuous stimuli of the hind foot of the same side. (Sherrington.) in the " spinal dog." Excitation and inhibition may occur (a) at the same time as when the flexors contract and the extensors are inhibited in drawing up the leg, or {b) they may follow one another as in the scratch reflex, which may be elicited when the skin over the shoulder of the dog is stimulated. The hind leg then performs rhythmic scratching movements, in- volving alternate contraction and relaxation of the flexor muscles. The mechanism involved in the ordinai'y flexion action of scratching is indicated in Fig. 42. That specific channels for excitation and in- hibition do not exist is shown by the fact that under the influence of strychnine, the inhibitory effects may be abolished and converted to excitor effects. As a result of this, havoc is played with the co-ordination of the reflexes. A simple uncomplicated reflex action prob- ably does not exist, for every ingoing impression sets up a series of changes which in turn act FIO. 43.—To show the way in which the different reflex arcs react on one another. S, skin ; M, muscle; F, viscus ; C, spinal cord with synapses. (M'Dougall.) upon the reflex arc. Thus an ingoing impulse from the skin sets up reflex contraction of muscles, and this contraction stimulates peri- pheral structures in the muscles, tendons, and joints, from which impulses pass inwards to act upon the arc. At the same time changes in the viscera may be produced which lead to excitation of ingoing fibres, and these again react upon the central synapses (Fig. 43). The activity of every spinal arc is carried on alongside that of many others, and each of these may materially modify its character. Two reflexes induced by similar stimulation from adjacent areas may reinforce one another and increase the general reaction. On the other hand, two stimuli of diflerent kinds from the same area may induce one or other reflex. Thus, while pressing the finger in the pad of the dog's foot causes the extensor thrust, in- jurious stimuli cause a flexion-withdrawal of the foot. When the two stimuli are applied at once, one or othei', but not a combination of the reflex actions will manifest itself. In the performance of each of these reflexes the same outgoing nerve paths are employed, and in the contest between the two stimuli one of the stimuli overcomes and replaces the other. In this way inco-ordinate movements by mixtures of reflexes are prevented.