22 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS (In a case examined by Laslett and War- rington, the nerve-cells of the anterior horns of the cervical region, at the level of the sixth and seventh segments, presented distinct clianges when stained according to Nissl's methylene blue method. The nuclei of the cells were placed very eccentrically, and the Nissl bodies of the cell protoplasm were dis- persed over the body of the cell in the form of fine powder. Often in the central mass of a cell an actual disappearance of the blue colour- ing matter was noticed, the result of a process of chromatolysis. The anterior nerve-roots of the sixth and seventh segments showed atrophied fibres, and the posterior interosseous nerve was markedly degenerated. In the foiirth and fifth segments of the cervical region the cell changes were almost absent. The changes in the nerve-cells of the cord are re- garded as secondary to the peripheral neuritis, and as the result of the altered state of functional activity following atrophy of the axons of these cells). The paralysed muscles are pale and atrophied markedly ; in advanced cases they consist chiefly of connective and fibrous tissue, with remnants of muscle fibres. Microscopical examination shows that the muscle fibres are atrophied. The transverse striation is often preserved, but in advanced cases it may be lost. The muscle nuclei are proliferated. In advanced cases the sarcolemma sheath contains granules only, or it may be empty. The connective and adipose tissue between the muscle fibres is increased. Whilst most observers regard the changes in the peripheral nerves as the primary affection in lead paralysis, Erb and Remak think that the peripheral neuritis is secondary to some functional change (as yet unrecognised) in the nerve-cells of the anterior horns. Mercurial Neuritis. — A small number of cases are on record in which multiple neuritis similar to alcoholic neuritis (especially the ataxic form) has developed in patients who were under mercurial treatment. The patients have often been syphilitic or alcoholic. In some of the cases it has not been possible to decide whether mercury, syphilis, or alcohol has caused the neuritis. In the case of Spitzer there was mercurial salivation and stomatitis, and the symptoms subsided when the mercury was dis- continued. As mercury is used so often in medicine, and neuritis following its administra- tion is so rare, Schultze suggests that the cases may be due to combined toxic action of mercury and alcohol. Several writers have pointed out that syphilitic polyneuritis is made worse by mercury. Diphtheritic Neuritis.—This is the most common form of multiple neuritis following an infectious disease. It usually develops two or three weeks after diphtheria, and may follow either a mild or severe attack. In the most common form paralysis of the soft palate is the first symptom. As a result thereof the voice has a nasal twang, there is difficulty in swallow- ing, and fluids regurgitate through the nose; the soft palate hangs down at the back of the mouth, and is not raised on phonation. Usually the mucous membrane of the soft palate is anaes- thetic, and the palate reflex cannot be obtained. In some cases no further symptoms develop, but in other cases the ocular, pharyngeal, or laryn- geal muscles are also affected. There is in- ability to see small objects close to the eyes, such as small print, owing to loss of the power of accommodation from paralysis of the ciliary muscle. The pupils, however, are generally unaffected, and react both to light and when the patient attempts to accommodate. Occasion- ally the sixth nerve is paralysed on each side; very rarely other ocular muscles are paralysed. The muscles of the pharynx may become para- lysed, and great difficulty in swallowing is caused thereby. The mucous membrane of the pharynx and larynx may become anaesthetic, and reflex movements connected with these parts may be lost. The muscle fibres which depress the epiglottis may become paralysed also. Owing to the three affections just men- tioned food is very liable to find its way into the larynx and trachea. The recurrent laryn- geal nerve is sometimes affected, and the muscles of one or both vocal cords are para- lysed; the voice becomes hoarse and there is aphonia. When one or more of these localised forms of paralysis are present the knee-jerks are usually absent; but there may be no other affection of the limbs. In most cases, however, other evi- dences of neuritis in the limbs develop, such as numbness and weakness. Often the paralysis of the palate has disappeared before the limbs are much affected. The weakness of the limbs increases, and passes on to complete paralysis. Frequently both arms and legs are affected, sometimes the legs only. The knee-jerks are absent, and sometimes the reaction of degenera- tion is obtained. In addition to numbness and tingling, anaesthesia may be present in the limbs ; or there may be diminution of sensation to tactile impressions, diminished power of local- ising sensation and of telling the position of the limbs, whilst at the same time hyperalgesia is present. In a small proportion of the cases the symp- toms consist chiefly of numbness and tingling, with ataxia and unsteadiness in walking. In these cases the knee-jerks are absent, and hence they bear some resemblance to locomotor ataxia. The bladder and rectum are not paralysed. The affection of the limbs usually does not reach its height for one to three months, and by this time the paralysis of the palate, ocular or laryngeal muscles, has generally subsided. In rare cases paresis or paralysis of the muscles