PAEALYSIS 303 The lower extremities may remain unaffected throughout the whole course of the disease; but when affected the muscles that waste are usually the anterior tibial group, the quadriceps extensors of the knee, and the glutei. There are rare cases in which the atrophy begins in the lower extremities before the muscles of the upper limbs are affected, in which case the anterior tibial muscles are the first to suffer. Throughout the course of this disease the amount of paralysis detected is proportional to the degree of the muscular atrophy that is present. Moreover, there is no spasticity such as is due to sclerosis of the lateral columns of the cord, and such as results in the form of the affection that has been named amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Any contracture that is present is due to the unopposed action of muscles that have escaped atrophy when their antagonists have been affected. The tendon-jerks remain unaltered, unless the muscles on which they depend become much atrophied, in which case they are abolished, so that the knee-jerks are preserved, except in the cases in which the extensors of the knee are wasted; but the tendon-jerks do not become exaggerated, and ankle clonus is never present. The plantar reflex is preserved as long as the muscles that produce the movements which constitute this reflex are intact; and as in the normal subject, the toes always flex when the sole of the foot is stimulated. There is never any blunting of cutaneous sensibility. The sphincters escape except in rare instances, and then they usually only suffer late in the course of the disease, though there are exceptions to this rule. Sexual power is not uncommonly lost. The clinical picture of a case of progressive muscular atrophy may conform to the above description throughout its whole course ; but, on the other hand, phenomena due to affection of motor nuclei of cranial nerves may supervene, in which case bulbar paralysis is added to the spinal cord affection. So too, with or without this addition, the clinical picture may be altered to that of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis by the appearance of spastic phenomena which indicate degeneration of the lateral columns of the spinal cord. Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.—In this form of the disease the upper and lower motor neurones are both involved, and there is thus evidence of lateral sclerosis in addition to muscular atrophy. The mode of onset varies. In some cases the earliest manifestation is a spastic condition of the limbs, and the tendon-jerks are increased all over the body. Muscular atrophy is added later, and is in every way similar to that already described under progressive muscular atrophy. A second group of cases commences like cases of progressive muscular atrophy, the earliest sign of disease in them being atrophy of muscles, but sooner or later the limbs become stiff" and the tendon-jerks exaggerated. In a third group the spastic phenomena and the muscular atrophy come on together, and it is not possible to say that the one symptom preceded the other. It was on cases of the first kind that Charcot based his classical description of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and it is probable that the other forms are still imperfectly recognised as being examples of the same disease. The patients complain of weakness and it may be of stiffness in the limbs, and on physical examination either no muscular atrophy is de- tected, or such as is present is not sufficient to account for the weakness. As the rigidity in the limbs increases, movements at all the joints are hampered by the stiffness, and the gait presents the characters of the spastic type. The knee-jerks are found to be exaggerated, ankle clonus is commonly pi'esent, the arm-jerks are all increased, and it may be possible to evoke a marked jaw-jerk. Moreover, stimulation of the sole of the foot may elicit an abnormal plantar reflex, in that the toes may extend instead of flexing as they should under normal circumstances. When muscles begin to atrophy in these cases it is usually the arms that are earliest affected, in which case the first dorsal interosseous muscle or the small muscles of the thumb are first attacked, while the subsequent spread of the muscular atrophy is in the same order and distribution as in progressive muscular atrophy. It may, however, be muscles supplied by cranial nerves that are first attacked, in which case bulbar paralysis results, and the manifestations of the disease are then identical with those to be subsequently described under Chronic Nuclear Bulbar Paralysis. Atrophy of the muscles of the lower extremities occurs less commonly, and does not, as a rule, become nearly so pronounced as in the muscles of the upper limbs. In consequence of spasticity and contracture of the muscles that do not atrophy, the upper arms may be more or less glued to the sides of the thorax, the elbows may be partly flexed, the forearms pronated, and the wrists and fingers flexed. As the atrophy of the muscles inci-eases, however, the spasticity lessens; indeed, the muscular atrophy may be so widespread and so pronounced in the upper limbs that but little muscle is left to allow rigidity to be determined. In the lower extremities the rigidity is always very marked, and as long as progression is possible the gait is pronouncedly spastic. The rigidity may lessen with the appearance of muscular atrophy in the lower limbs, but never to anything like the same extent as in the upper extremities. The neck muscles, the intercostals, and the abdominal muscles all become affected in the advanced stages of this form of the disease, as