OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 157 apparently into disrepute, not because it is ineffective, for in truth it is of great service, but chiefly, as it seems to the writer, because pathologists find a little difficulty in explaining the mode in which it acts ; it has the misfortune to be, or to look as if it were, at variance with accepted theories, and therefore practitioners are apt to look askance at it. On the other hand, the author cannot recommend the applica- tion of electricity to the paralysed muscle, a method of treatment in which some place re- liance. Michel recommended mechanical traction of the globe in the line of action of the muscle involved; he administered cocaine, and then (supposing the external rectus to be the muscle involved) seized the conjunctiva with fixation forceps, and gently pulled the cornea outwards and inwards alternately with the idea of assist- ing the muscle to recover tone. The author is not aware whether the method is still employed by any surgeon now. In post-diphtheritic paralysis of accommoda- tion simple tonics should be given, and with time the power of the ciliary muscle will recover. It generally does so very rapidly after the lapse of a few weeks of almost complete paralysis ; the author sees no advantage in the employment of eserine, which is sometimes recommended. Since the lesion is not muscular, but nuclear, such "treatment" is not in the true sense treatment at all. As well might one turn the hands of the clock round the dial with one's finger when the works are damaged. Nor can we see what possible advantage is gained by ordering convex spectacles, save as a very temporary relief to symptoms. Manifestly in cases in which the nerve is destroyed by tumour pressure or by tearing across, no medicine can restore its function. In such cases as resist all treatment and remain permanent it may, however, be necessary to resort to remedies of a character totally different from any which we have yet mentioned. In the case of a patient suffering from an incurable paralysis of an ocular muscle, and continuing to be seriously annoyed by double vision from this cause, we may have recourse to the use of a prism held before the eye or eyes in such a position as to neutralise the faulty attitude of the visual lines. To take one of the simplest cases, in permanent partial paralysis, or during the slow course of recovery from a paralysis of the external rectus muscle of the right eye, there may be troublesome diplopia in all positions save when the patient is looking towards his left side; such a person may have his discomfort much relieved by the wearing of a prism before the right eye with its apex inwards, which will thus neutralise the effect of his too great convergence. In certain cases, especially when the patient does not require any convex or concave glasses, it would be highly inconvenient to wear a single prism, and it is better to divide the effect between the two eyes. Thus, in a case in which a prism of 8° is required, apex upwards, to unite the images, it is better that the patient should wear before each eye a prism of 4°, on one side apex upwards, on the other apex downwards. But even comparatively feeble prisms are so heavy and inconvenient to wear, that in practice it is not very often that they are prescribed. When they are employed care must be taken that they do not quite fully correct the defect, as it is good practice to encourage the enfeebled muscle to efforts at recovery by leaving still a slight separation of the images, which may be over- come when the desire for fusion urges the weak muscle to contract. If full correction is worn there is no incentive to the muscle to act. Operative measures, which ought never to be undertaken till all hope of recovery has had to be given up, and till perhaps a year or more has elapsed without recovery, may be of several kinds. We may either endeavour to assist an enfeebled muscle to perform its function satis- factorily by bringing its points of origin and insertion nearer together (advancement), or by weakening its antagonist of the same eye, or we may bring the sound eye into line with the affected one by attaching one or more of the muscles of the former either by advancement or tenotomy. To take an example:—In permanent paralysis of the left superior oblique, the eye is in a position of threefold error, viz., it stands too high, it is convergent, and the upper portion of its cornea is rotated outwards, since all three of the contrary actions of the muscle are more or less completely lost. To remedy this con- dition, then, we may (1) strengthen the weakened muscle (advancement of left superior oblique), or its principal coadjutor (advancement of left inferior rectus), but to do this latter would increase the faulty rotation about the antero- posterior axis ; or (2) weaken one or both of the antagonists of the same eye (tenotomy of left superior rectus or left inferior oblique). The former operation would also have the in- convenience of increasing still further the faulty rotation of the eye about the antero-posterior axis, while the latter, even if practicable, would increase the convergence. Or we may displace the other eye in a parallel direction either by (3) weakening the chief muscle which draws it in the parallel direction to that of the paralysed muscle (tenotomy of right inferior rectus), or by (4) strengthening that muscle which draws the right eye in a direction parallel to the actual displacement (advancement of the right superior rectus). It will be seen that tenotomy of the right inferior rectus in all three directions of movement " tunes " the right eye to the new faulty position of the left, while advancement of the superior rectus would be apt to give an increase in convergence, already too great. It need, perhaps, hardly be observed that no opera-