OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 205 it appeal's greenish and gelatinous. Other appearances, such as a dull surface, coloured patches, etc., are due to inflammation, haemor- rhage, and degeneration. This cyst is always multilocular. Sometimes one loculus predomi- nates, the others may even be but microscopical; in other cases, especially when there is much glandular substance, there are several loculi of much the same size. When the loculi are partly separate externally the tumour appears like a pile of cannon-balls. In a predominating cavity it is the rule to find little or no solid matter, and the internal lining membrane is usually divested of epithelium, owing to macera- tion ; but this variety should be ranked with glandular cysts, there being no true line of de- marcation between them. In the opposite type large masses of glandular growth project into the cavities of the larger loculi, and almost fill up the smaller loculi, whilst there are usually large areas where the solid predominates over the cystic element, and where the cavities are only indicated on section by specks of dead white mucoid material, the secretion from the dense masses of glandular matter. The walls of the loculi are firmest where there is least infiltration with minute glandular cysts, and are most vascular at such points. Hence there is sometimes much loss of blood when the surgeon breaks down the loculi to facilitate extraction. The fluid contents consist in the large loculi of a glairy albuminous fluid. This is typically greyish - green, and seldom approaches the yellow tint of ascitic effusion. But ovarian fluid is often dark brown or otherwise dis- coloured by hsemorrhage, and often mixed with semi-opaque dead white lumps, the product of active secretion from glandular growths. In the smaller loculi these lumps may constitute the sole contents ; when very dense they appear bright white. In some cysts the contents are entirely colloid in consistence, and devoid of the least fluidity. Amidst the loculi dermoid and papillomatous or even malignant growths may be found. General pathologists do not hesitate to rank this familiar tumour as an adenoma (Sims Woodhead, D. J. Hamilton). The lining mem- brane of the predominating cystic cavity bears either flattened cubical epithelium or is entirely divested of any epithelial covering. The minute cysts are lined with very large columnar epithelium, including numerous chalice cells. This adenomatous tissue may implant itself on the peritoneum, a change as a rule clinically malignant. The pedicle is, in the majority of cases of common ovarian cyst, anatomically normal, though always hypertrophied and often exceed- ingly broad. Only a small proportion burrow into the mesosalpinx, very few into the meso- metrium. This subject will be further dis- cussed under the paragraphs on The Pedicle, and Capsules, True and False. In about one- third of all cases the common ovarian cyst is bilateral (Stoecklin). The Papillomatous Ovarian Cyst must be classed with a non-cystic ovarian tumour, free papilloma of the ovary, where masses of papillary growth spring from the surface of the ovary. These free growths set up ascites, and are nearly always bilateral. The rare but con- spicuous racemose " Rokitansky's tumour," which resembles a large hydatidiform mole, and has been figured by Lawson Tait, is considered by Stoecklin (Martin, loc. cit. p. 524) to repre- sent oedema or myxomatous degeneration of free papillomata. The pseudocysts are cer- tainly not ova or follicles. The true pap)illo- matous cyst is frequent; it is often bilateral. Often the smaller growth is but little larger than a normal ovary, and hence liable to be OA'erlooked. Pfannenstiel maintains, on statis- tical evidence, that such an ovary should always be sacrificed, and the author's experience in- duces him to support that principle. The outer wall of a papillomatous tumour is usually thin ; contrasted with the surface of a glandular cyst it is dull in colour. As a rule the tumour consists of a few cavities of fairly equal size. From its inner wall spring the characteristic papillomata, some appearing as mere rough elevations, some as large warts, others as luxuriant cauliflower masses, very vascular and sometimes gritty through psammo- matous changes. These growths frequently burst through the outer wall, which often bears similar growths extra-cystic from their origin. The fluid contents are as clear as water, devoid of albumin, and rich in chloride of sodium. The papillary growths consist of columnar, usually ciliated, cells of moderate size, mounted on a very scanty framework of connective tissue with large vessels to each papilla. A minority of papillomatous cysts, according to the author's experience, bear a normal pedicle. As a rule they are sessile, and not rarely burrow into the mesometrium as well as into the meso- salpinx. Implantation of papillomatous growths on the peritoneum is common—it may prove clinically malignant within a few months; yet the growths may wither completely after re- moval of the tumour. Dermoid Cyst (or " cystic ovarian embry- oma") is commoner in the ovary than in any other part. It arises from the ovary proper, and hence is nearly always pedunculated. The pedicle is particularly liable to torsion, ending sometimes in complete detachment. About 15 per cent of all ovarian cysts are dermoid, and a large proportion of dermoids are bilateral; in infants and under puberty, ovarian cysts are nearly always dermoid. The outer wall of a der- moid is usually dull white and often discoloured. Its fluid contents present great variety, but ai-e