249 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF more conveniently and scientifically classified like inflammation of other organs, as acute, subacute, and chronic, and there is no reason to use the term hjemorrhagic pancreatitis except as a variety of acute pancreatitis in which the hsemorrhage precedes the inflammation. 1. Pancreatitis Symptoms.—It seems to me convenient to con- sider pancreatitis clinically under the headings of (1) Acute, often associated with haemorrhage and gangrene; (2) Subacute, often associated with suppuration; and (3) Chronic, associated with an increase of the interstitial tissue. The symptoms are very variable, and differ in the separate forms. A correct diagnosis can usually be arrived at by a careful study of the history, mode of onset, and combination of symptoms, assisted by an examination of the urine and faeces by a competent pathologist. Acute Pancreatitis.—This is usually ushered in by a sudden pain in the superior abdominal region, accompanied by faintness or collapse, and followed sooner or later by vomiting. It is almost constantly accompanied by constipation, so that it is quite usual for these cases to be mistaken for intestinal obstruction at first. The obstruction, however, is not absolute; flatus passes, and a large enema may secure an evacua- tion ; if the patient survive for several days, diarrhcea may supervene. The pain may be so severe as to produce syncope or collapse; and though the pain does not quite pass away, it has a tendency to be paroxysmal, and to be increased by movement; it is associated with well-marked tenderness just above tlie umbilicus, or between it and the ensiform cartilage. The pain is soon followed by distension in the superior abdominal region, which may become general, and usually does in the later stages, and by vomiting, first of food, then of bile. The vomiting may be severe, and each seizure may aggravate the pain, but at times vomiting may not be a prominent symptom. Slight icterus from associated catarrh of the bile-ducts is usually present, and deepens the longer the patient survives. The aspect is anxious and the face is pinched, resembling the facies of peritonitis, which in fact may be present. The pulse, which is rapid and small, is a better guide than the temperature, which may be normal, subnormal, irregular, or high. Delirium comes on in the later stages. The distension, pain, and tenderness prevent an exact examina- tion of the pancreas, which would otherwise be found enlarged. Death usually supervenes from the second to the fifth day from collapse, though in the less acute cases life may be pro- longed for days or weeks. Acute infective pancreatitis thus takes on the form of acute peritonitis starting in the superior abdominal region. If life be prolonged, the case comes under the category of subacute pancreatitis, and in that case the onset is usually less grave, though often equally sudden. Post-mortem Appearances. — Post-mortem ap- pearances are variable, but the following are fairly characteristic :—As a rule areas of fat necrosis will be observed in the omentum and in the fatty tissues in the neighbourhood of the pancreas, but they may be found all over the abdomen. The peritoneal cavity may contain blood-stained fluid. In the situation of the pancreas in the haemorrhagic form will be found a large, hard, dark, chocolate-coloured mass several times the size of the normal pancreas. On section of this, very little trace of normal pancreatic tissue may be discovered, the whole organ being infiltrated and distended with fluid. Dark brown or black necrotic areas can easily be seen, and sometimes in the gangrenous form the whole of the pancreas is converted into a black slough lying in the midst of dirty, grey, thin fluid, with very offensive odour. The adjoining tissues and organs will in these cases be found stained and dark-coloured. It is very common to find gall-stones in the common duct or in the gall-bladder, and in several cases a small calculus has been found impacted in the ampulla of Vater, occluding the opening into the duodenum and converting the common bile- duct and Wirsung's duct into a single canal. Opie first demonstrated this fact, and formed the theory that acute pancreatitis was due to the injection of the ducts of the pancreas by bile. Flexner has shown that the admixture of mucus with bile renders the bile less virulent. Treatment.—In acute infective pancreatitis treatment practically resolves itself into that of peritonitis commencing in the superior ab- dominal region. The pain at the outset is so acute as to necessitate the administration of I morphia, and the collapse will probably demand stimulants, which on account of the associated vomiting may have to be given by enema. In the early stages the symptoms are so indefinite that the indications for surgical treatment are often not clear. The simulation of intestinal obstruction will probably lead to efforts to j secure an evacuation of the bowels and relief to the distension. Just as in perforative or gan- grenous appendicitis an early evacuation of the ' septic matter is necessary to recovery, so in i this equally lethal affection an early exploration from the front through the middle-line above the umbilicus, or from behind through the ! left costo-vertebral angle, is demanded in order to evacuate the septic material and adopt free drainage. The after-treatment will be chiefly directed to combating shock and keeping up the strength until the materies morhi, both local and general, can be thrown off". The treatment of acute pancreatitis by ab- dominal section and incision and drainage of the I infected area has been successful in a number