158 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF tion on the oblique muscles is, as a matter of fact, practicable, although, for the sake of stating the problem completely, interference with them has been suggested in the above scheme, which, mutatis mutandis, can be applied to the case of anyof themuscles. Fora description of the actual methods of operation upon the muscles, whether by tenotomy or by advancement, one of the ordinary text-books had better be consulted. OculO-. — In compound words oculo- (Lat. ondus, an eye) as a prefix means relating to the eye; e.g. the ocido-motor or third cranial nerve {see Brain, Physiology of, Third Nerve ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of. Nuclear Paralysis), oculo-frontal, oculo-zygomatic, etc. OculuS.—The eye, as in Oculus hovis {see BuPHTHALMUs); O.D. is the contraction for oculus dexter. OcytOCiC. See Oxytocic. Odaxesmus.—The term given to the bitten tongue or cheek of epilepsy or eclampsia (Gr. oSa^oj, to bite). Odessa.. See Balneology {Russia). Odol.—A mouth wash, which is said to con- tain salol, peppermint, saccharin, and alcohol; it is disinfectant and deodorant. Odontagra. — Toothache of a gouty nature. Odontalg'ia. — Toothache from dental caries, or simply of a neuralgic nature. See Teeth {Dental Caries, Predisposinig Causes). Odonterismus or Odonto- SynerismuS.—Chattering of the teeth. Odont hseiTIOd ia. — Since kcemodia means extreme sensitiveness of the teeth (having the teeth on edge), this term {odonthcemodia) is really tautological; it sometimes has the meaning of a scorbutic condition of the teeth. Odontitis.—Inflammation of the teeth. OdontO-.—In compound words odonto- as well as odont- (Gr. oSou'?, a tooth) as prefixes mean relating to the teeth; e.g. odontoid (tooth- like), odoyitopathij (disease of the teeth), etc. Odontoblasts.—The most superficial epithelium-like cells of the tooth-pulp which lie next to, and are instrumental in forming, the dentine. Odontoclasts.—The cells which lead to the absorption of the fangs of the milk teeth. Odontodol.—A dental anodyne said to contain cocaine and some other druss. Odontoid.—Tooth-like or dentate, e.g. the odontoid process of the axis vertebra. Odontolith.—The tartar (a calcareous deposit) which forms on the teeth. Odontoloxia.—The slanting or oblique position of the teeth. Odontoma.—A tumour originating in some part of a tooth during its development, and consisting of dentine, enamel, cement, or of a cystic structure. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Tumours of the Jaw, Odontomata); Teeth {Diseases of the Puljj, Secondary Hard Formations); Tumours {Con- nective Tissite Type, Odontomata). Odontotrypy or Odontotryphy. —The perforation of a tooth by drilling in order to reach the pulp-cavity to let out pus, etc. O'Dwyer'S Tubes.—Tubes employed for the intubation of the larynx. See Intuba- tion {Instruments used). Odynephobia.—Morbid dread of pain (Gr. 68vv7], pain, ^o/5etv, to fear). Sdema. See Angeioneurotic (Edema; Beriberi {Symptoms, CEdema); Brain, Affec- tions OF Blood-Vessels {CEdema of the Brain); Burns and Scalds {Seqvsloe, CEdema Glottidis); Chest-Wall, Affections of {Disorders of Circuy lation, CEdema); Diabetes jVIellitus ; Dropsy ; Dropsy, Epidemic ; Eclampsia ; Gastro-intes- TiNAL Disorders of Infancy {Inflammatory Diarrhoea, (Edema) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symptomatology, Dropsy); Hys- teria {hifantile, CEdema); Labour, Faults in THE Passenger {CEdema of the Foetus); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Pressure Phenomena, (Edema of the Cervix Uteri); Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {(Edematous Laryngitis); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Complications, Integumentary System, CEdema); Mumps (Complications, (Edema Glot- tidis) ; Nephritis {Clinical Features, Acute, Chronic); Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta {(Edema); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases OF the Fcetus {General Foetal Dropsy); Scarlet Fever {Complications); Sclerema Neonatorum {Diagnosis, Scleraidema); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (CEdema of the Scrotum); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symp- toms, Temporary, CEdema; Ulcers {Conditions ivhich prevent healing, CEdema). CEdipism.—The act of self evulsion of the eyes or destruction of the eyesight, in some forms of insanity; the origin of the word is found in the story of (Edipus, who put out his eyes when he found he had unwittingly murdered his father and committed incest with his mother. See Brit. Med. Journ., p. 1847, Dec. 28, 1907. OEnanthiC Acid.—An acid, or rather a mixture of acids (Ci4H2^02-I-H^O), obtained from oenanthic ether and having the odour of