261 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF The rational treatment is to cleanse the wound, to ligature obvious bleeding points, and then to plug the cavity with iodoform gauze. The patient is usually suffering from such severe shock that any elaborate operation is out of the question. 7. Syphilis of the Pancreas.—Syphilis of the pancreas is much commoner as a congenital than as an acquired disease. In 1875, Birch-Hirschfeld described syphilitic disease of the pancreas in new-born children and infants, and Schlesinger (Virchow's Archiv, vol. cliv., December 20, 1898) has described six cases, in which death ensued in every instance. He quotes that in congenital syphilis the pancreas is affected less frequently than the spleen, liver, bones, and lungs, but oftener than tlie thymus, heart, intestine, and other viscera. The pan- creas may be attacked as early as the fifth month of uterine life. Peritoneal adhesions are commonly found around the pancreas. The head is always more affected than the tail, and on section it is abnormally firm so as to feel and cut like cartilage. The disease is thus really an interstitial diffuse pancreatitis. The inter- acinous tissue is much necrosed, and the vessels are affected with periarteritis and endarteritis. The ducts are but little affected except by the sclerotic changes of the tissues surrounding them. In congenital syphilis, gummata are exceptional, whereas in the acquired variety they are characteristic. 8. Tubercle of the Pancreas.—Pancreatic tuberculosis is extremely rare as a primary disease, though occasionally found in cases of general tuberculosis as well as in tubercular peritonitis. Tubercular disease of the pancreas may caseate and may break down into an abscess, which burrowing behind the peritoneum may tend to point in the loin or in the left iliac region. I have operated on a case of this kind in which the disease resembled a tubercular spinal abscess. Lancereaux describes two forms: one com- posed of large caseous masses, the other of granular infiltrating tuberculosis. He quotes Kudrewetzki, who found the pancreas affected with tubercle 15 times in 128 cases of tubercu- losis. Oser found even a greater proportion (44"4 per cent) of tubercular affections of the pancreas in tubercular children. He also describes one case in which a tubercular mass was excised from the pancreas. Tubercular disease of the pancreas is of interest from a pathological rather than from a clinical point of view. Pancreatic Solution.—A solution of the fresh pancreas of the pig, containing its active digestive principle (trypsin). See Physi- ology, Food and Digestion {Intestinal Digestion, Pancreatic Secretion). It is used, along with sodium bicarbonate, for the peptonising of milk. Pancreatin. — Pancreatic extract, or the active principle (proteid) of the pancreatic secretion. Pancreatitis.—inflammation of thepan- creas. See Pancreas, Diseases of (Pancreatitis). Pandemic.—General or universal, as used in speaking of a widely prevalent disease, in opposition to epidemic or limited in its extent (Gr. Tra?, all, Br]fji.os, people). Pander's Layer.—The splanchnopleure layer of the mesoblast in which blood-vessels are formed, and in which yellow patches of hsemoglobin - containing corpuscles (Pander's Islands) appear. Pang'enesiS. — A theory of heredity advanced by Darwin according to which gem- mules, or minute particles from the various structures of the body, pass to the testicles or ovaries to enter into the constitution of the germ-cells ; in this way, it is supposed, the new organism is able to show hereditary characters of all kinds, for it contains these representative gemmules. See Heredity (Physical Basis of Inheritance). Panhysterectomy.—The total ex- tirpation of the uterus (body and cervix). See Uterus, Malignant Tumours (Hysterectomy). Panhystero-Colpectomy.—/See Uterus, Displacements of (Operative Treatment of Descent or Prolapsus). Panidrosis or Paniiidrosis.— General perspiration. Pani Ghao.—Ground or Water Itch; Sore Feet of Coolies. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Animal Parasites). Panmixia.—A sort of promiscuous re- production of all kinds of ancestral tendencies, due to the cessation of the action of natural selection in the case of little used or useless organs (Weismann). PanniCUlUS.—A layer or membrane, such as the layer of subcutaneous fat (panniculus adiposus), or of muscle (2Mnnictdus carnosus) represented in man by the platysma. Pan n US.—A vascular condition of the cornea, or vascular keratitis. See Cornea (Phlyctenular Ulcer); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Trachoma, Sequelae). Panophobla.—A form of hypochon- driasis or melancholia characterised by cause- less fears or terror. Panophthalmitis. —Inflammation of the whole eyeball. See Choroid, Diseases of (Suppurative Choroiditis); Herpes (Ocular Complications).