PARALYSIS 292 quality owing to weakness of the palate. Diffi- culty in swallowing is also a common symptom, and may be so pronounced that the patient has to be fed by the stomach tube. All degrees of defect of phonation have been described up to complete aphonia, but most often there is only slight weakness of the voice, which may be accounted for by weakness of the muscles of respiration, or the voice may be hoarse or squeaky owing to weakness of the laryngeal muscles. Paralysis of the facial muscles on one or both sides, weakness of the muscles of mastication, and even affection of the ocular muscles, with ptosis and strabismus occur, and the pupils may be unequal and defective in their action. The paralysis is unaccompanied by any spasticity in the muscles; on the contrary, there is the most absolute flaccidity. Such patients may die while their muscles are still well nourished, and at a time when the elec- trical reactions are normal. This, however, entirely depends on the length of time that has elapsed between the onset of the illness and the time of death—a period that is insuffi- cient, in most cases, to allow the muscles to waste appreciably, or respond in an abnormal manner on electrical excitation. When the patients do not die, or when they recover partially or completely, some of the affected muscles waste, and show the partial or complete reaction of degeneration. With the onset of flaccid paralysis the tendon- jerks are rapidly abolished, and in the fatal cases the knee-jerks remain absent up to the time of death. With recovery, however, all the tendon-jerks return, though the knee-jerks as a rule remain absent for a long time. The sphincters usually escape entirely, and in some cases in which there appears to be retention of urine this is probably due to defect in expulsive power consequent on weakness of the abdominal muscles, which also, no doubt, accounts in some measure for the obstinate constipation that may be present. In quite exceptional cases paralysis of both sphincters, and in consequence incontinence of urine and faeces, has been observed. In the large majority of cases there are no sensory defects other than the subjective sensa- tions that may occur as premonitions of the attack, and which may persist after definite motor paralysis has supervened. The most delicate methods of testing sensibility usually fail to determine any anaesthesia ; but in a few cases that appear to belong to the class under consideration, slight blunting of sensibility has been detected, while in some anaesthesia of a more pronounced character has been described. Hypertesthesia of the skin and muscles has also been occasionally met with, and even definite tenderness along the course of the nerve trunks has been observed. The patient usually remains absolutely clear in intellect, so that it is exceptional to meet with psychical disturbance. Whether the onset of the malady is attended with rise of temperature or not, there is always some febrile disturbance in the final stages which immediately precede death, at which time there is also increased frequency of pulse. The urine occasionally contains albumin. The spleen is enlarged in some cases, and this has been re- garded as in favour of the view that the disease is toxic in origin. Diagnosis : Polyneuritis.—As the resemblance between acute ascending paralysis and poly- neuritis is sufficiently close to lead some ob- servers to consider that the affections are identical, it naturally follows that the possibility of distinguishing the one from the other is not always easy, and it becomes almost impossible if we are to admit that cases in which there is blunting of sensibility may, nevertheless, belong to the former class. The presence of definite ansesthesia, and the fact that the paralysis attacks the superior as well as the inferior extremities, and spreads up the limbs to the trunk, instead of passing through the trunk before the upper limbs become affected, are the chief points that help us in arriving at a decision. Poliomyelitis, as usually met with, is random in distribution, and does not preserve the symmetry observed in acute ascending paralysis; nevertheless, some of the cases that present all the features of the latter affection in their earlier stages are subsequently left much in the same condition as is seen in severe and ex- tensive poliomyelitis. Myelitis. — In ascending myelitis all the functions of the cord suffer, so that in addition to the motor paralysis there is marked blunting of sensibility, a great tendency to trophic dis- turbances in the skin, and loss of control over the sphincters. Meningeal haemorrhage may cause ascending paralysis, but muscular spasm is a prominent feature, and the pain in the back is much more severe than anything experienced in Landry's paralysis. Prognosis.—The majority of the patients die from asphyxia consequent on paralysis of the muscles of respiration, or death may be due to cardiac failure when the disease attacks the medulla oblongata. A fatal termination is usually reached in about a week from the commencement of the illness, but some patients die within forty-eight hours. Less commonly the fatal issue is delayed until the end of the second, or it may even be the third or fourth week. Paralysis of the muscles of respiration or disturbed heart's action are symptoms of most serious import, as are any signs of bulbar affection. In some cases the disease becomes arrested and ultimately terminates in complete