PANCREAS, DISEASES OF 251 umbilicus will enable the operator to palpate the pancreas and locate any incipient collection of pus, which, if practicable, should be evacuated by a posterior incision in the left or right costo- vertebral angle ; or failing that possibility, the collection of pus may be aspirated and the cavity opened and packed with gauze, which may be brought forward through a large rubber drainage-tube, which will in the course of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours establish a track isolated from the general peritoneal cavity. In one case I was able to do this, but the operation was undertaken at too late a stage to be successful; and though the patient lived two or three days afterwards, the evacuation of the pus seemed to make very little difference to the general septic condition previously ex- isting, and death occurred from increasing de- bility on the fourth day. The method adopted had, however, been successful from the point of view of drainage, and the track of the gauze and tube was isolated from the general peritoneal cavity. If a definite abscess form and approach the surface in front or in either loin, the treat- ment will be that of incision and drainage, as in the case of any other abdominal abscess. Two of my cases in which an abscess of the pancreas was drained through the common bile- duct recovered completely, and one recovered from the operation but died a few weeks later from debility. The strength must be main- tained by careful feeding and the judicious administration of stimulants. It will be neces- sary to keep a sharp lookout for further collec- tions of pus and for subphrenic abscess or em- pyema, which on recognition will need treatment. Chronic Pancreatitis. — Chronic pancreatitis, at first hypertrophic, but later cirrhotic, is usually considered to be a very rare disease, but experience has shown it to be a much more common affection than the acute or subacute forms, and some cases put down as malignant disease of the head of the pancreas and ter- minating fatally are undoubtedly cases of chronic interstitial pancreatitis. My reason for this belief is shown in the cases related below, selected out of many on which I have operated. My experience has resulted from my having operated on a large number of cases of jaundice depending on obstruction to the common bile-duct; the obstructive jaimdice, wasting, paroxysmal attacks of pain, and ague- like seizures having given rise to the suspicion of gall-stones, and the absence of relief by medical treatment having rendered surgical treatment necessary. My first case of this nature, which occurred in 1890, was well fourteen years later ; the second case, in 1891, occurred in a man of fifty, deeply jaundiced and supposed to be suffering from common duct cholelithiasis, but in which the obstruction was due to a swelling of the head of the pancreas, recovered after cholecystotomy and fully regained his health; the third case was a revelation to me, as the patient was extremely ill before the operation, which was in fact undertaken too late, and as there was the opportunity of a post-mortem examination, the absence of malig- nant disease or of other cause than the chronic pancreatitis and associated jaundice to account for the death was directly proved. This form of pancreatitis is quite distinct from the acute or subacute form, though I think it is probable that some of the latter cases end in chronic interstitial pancreatitis. It usually arises by extension of the inflammation from the pancreatic ducts to the intei'lobular tissues, and is generally dependent on gall-stones in the common duct, which lead to the entrance of organisms from the duodenum that multiply in the retained secretion both in the pancreatic and bile ducts, and so set up an infective cholangitis and pancreatitis. A merely tempo- rary block in the common duct may produce pancreatitis, and the infection once started may lead to swelling of the head of the pancreas, and thus to pressure on and partial occlusion of the common bile duct and Wirsung's duct, in this way accounting for the persistence of the symptoms after the obstruction has passed away and for the relief by drainage of the bile- ducts either by cholecystotomy or cholecyst- enterostomy, as in the cases referred to in my lecture at the London Polyclinic, July 1900. The disease may assume the different forms of interlobular and interacinar inflammation : the former is not associated with glycosuria except in the later stages, when the disease has involved the whole gland and has invaded the islands of Langerhans; the latter, " interacinar," is probably always associated with glycosuria. Pancreatic lithiasis, or gastric, pyloric, or duo- denal ulcer, as well as certain blood conditions, may also produce interstitial pancreatitis. Its course varies. The onset may be quite gradual and painless, or may be ushered in by a severe pain at the epigastrium, followed by jaundice resembling a gall-stone attack, and associated with nausea and vomiting, and per- haps followed by a feeling of chilliness, or even a rigor. The pain, however, is not over the gall-bladder, and does not pass round the right side to the subscapular region, but is central, and passes backwards to the midscapular region or round the left side, thus resembling stomach rather than gall-bladder pain. The tender spot is usually an inch above the umbilicus in the middle line, and not over the gall-bladder, as in cholelithiasis pure and simple. When once jaundice has come on, it tends to deepen with each attack, until it becomes continuous and chronic. The paroxysms of pain may be re- peated, more or less frequently ; or there may be no paroxysmal pain, merely a dull ache, deeply seated, burning and boi'ing in character. A swelling of the pancreas may sometimes be