OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 212 rarely seen. All these complications, together with constant mental worry and physical ex- haustion, ultimately cause death. Many cases die within two or three years of the first de- tection of the tumours, yet some, it must be admitted, used to live twenty or thirty years after repeated tappings. The author observed one case of this kind that lived for over forty years after innumerable tappings, refusing operation. She died very suddenly during an attack of dyspncea, with suppression of urine. Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumour. — A fair consideration of the above clinical symptoms renders diagnosis of an ovarian cyst, or even of a solid tumour of the ovary, fairly easy ; but these symptoms, as well as many complications and exceptions, must be studied, and afterwards carefully borne in mind when any one patient is examined. Myoma of Uterus or Fibroid." — In this disease the tumour forms part of the uterus, and is solid and elastic; the uterine cavity is elongated; menorrhagia is present in certain varieties. When the cervix is involved diagnosis is not difficult; but a pedunculated subserous myoma, without evidence of any other similar growth in the uterus, and with little enlarge- ment of that organ, cannot always be distin- guished from a solid ovarian tumour. Uterine myoma grows slowly. Cystic myoma is not easy to distinguish from burrowing semicystic ovarian tumours ; in a uterine cyst, however, the cervix, or the region near the cervix, is often involved. There are, however, fallacies about this symptom, as an ovarian growth burrowing under the peritoneum may appear on touch to involve the cervix. Bilateral solid tumours of the ovary have often been taken for multiple pedunculated myoma of the uterus. In the ovarian affection, however, the uterus will be found on careful bimanual palpation to be completely free from both tumours. Parovarian cysts are more flaccid than true ovarian cysts, and their walls are clearly very thin. Tapping for diagnosis is not justifiable. There is no certain method for diagnosing a pathologically ovarian from a pathologically parovarian cyst when either burrows in the broad ligament. In both cases the uterus may be drawn up very high on the front of the tumour. Dilated Fallopian tube seldom rises high above the pelvic brim ; whether a hydro- salpinx or a pyosalpinx it is nearly always associated with a distinct history of pelvic pain and inflammation, the pain often subsiding whilst the tube distends. An ovarian cyst rarely gives pain at first, and often causes suffering when large. The dilated tube curls behind the cervix, its exti-emity lying in Douglas's pouch. Pregnancy nivist be always borne in mind, more especially when complicated with hydra^n- nion. Yet experienced authorities have taken even simple pregnancy for ovarian tumour. Remember that in cases of malignant ovarian disease in young girls amenorrhoea often sets in early, and the tumour grows quickly. Multiple hydatids of the ome7itum feel, through the abdominal wall, like potatoes; they are clearly separate, unlike the loculi of an ovarian cyst. They are also unconnected with the pelvic viscera, but there are sometimes hydatids in the pelvis also. Hydatid of the liver and dilated gall-bladder must be remembered when a cyst is detected in the right side of the abdomen. Real difficulty may be encountered when an ovarian tumour, especially a cyst, lies displaced and adherent in one flank, or in the epigastrium. In the first case renal tumour may be suspected. This tumour, however, develops posteriorly and superiorly, and grows downwards and forwards, and the colon lies in front of it; but adherent gut sometimes lies in front of a laterally dis- placed ovarian tumour. A small dermoid or simple ovarian cyst lying near the epigastrium or behind the umbilicus must be distinguished from a cyst or solid tumour of the pancreas^ where marked special clinical symptoms are usually present. Phantom tumours are resonant on percussion, especially if the patient be well purged before examination. The abdominal muscles contract firmly when touched, so that a solid tumour may be suspected. On bimanual palpation under antesthesia the fingers of both hands can be made to meet, no tumour lying between them, and the uterus and appendages feel free from disease. Distended bladder must not be overlooked. The nature of ascites and its morbid associa- tions are well known. When the patient lies on her back there is resonance anteriorly and dulness in the flanks; when she lies on one side there will be resonance over the opposite or upper side; whilst in ovarian cysts the dulness lies anteriorly, and there is usually clear resonance in both flanks in any position. In constipated subjects with an ovarian cyst one or both flanks may be dull on percussion. Adherent gut in front of the cyst will be resonant. Encysted dropsy (anterior) is as- sociated with anterior dulness and resonance in the flanks, as is cyst of the iirachus. The former disease is generally associated with tubercular peritonitis or pelvic inflammation, the latter is very rare. The urachal cyst lies over the middle line between the umbilicus and pubis, and is quite fixed. When it discharges urine through the umbilicus it betrays its character at once, though in one instance (Unterberger) it was taken at first for rupture of an ovarian cyst through the umbilicus. Solid hepatic and sj)lenic tumours and solid tumours of the mesentery and spleen ought not to be mistaken for solid ovarian tumours. The