168 OLEO-RESINS Oleo-ResinS.—Mixtures of oils (fixed or volatile) and resins; or, more strictly, solutions of resins in volatile oils {e.g. copaiba, q.v.). Balsams are mixtures of oleo-resins with benzoic or cinnamic acid (e.g. balsam of Peru). Oleum.—An oil. See Oils; also under the various drugs, e.g. castor oil, croton oil, olive oil, etc. Olfactory. — Relating to the sense of smell or to the organs concerned therewith, e.g. the olfactory nerve, the olfactory bulb, and the olfactory lobe. See Brain, Physiology of {Senso7-y Centres, Smell); Brain, Physiology of {Cranial Nerves, Olfactory Bulb and Lobe); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Affections of Olfactory Nerves, Anosmia); Nose, Examina- tion OF {Senses of Smell) ; Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Sense of Smell); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Affections of Cranial Nerves). Olibcinuin. — A gum resin, known as Arabian Frankincense or Thus masculum, ob- tained from various species of Boswellia, and used sometimes as a substitute for the balsams of Peru or tolu ; it is a stimulant to mucous membranes, and is used in bronchitis and laryn- gitis (by fumigation). Olig'Semia,.—A reduction in the A^olume of the blood (Gr. oAtyos, scanty, al^a, blood). Olig^O-. — In compound words oligo- (Gr. oAtyos, few) as a prefix means scanty, deficient, or few; e.g. oligochylia (deficiency of chyle), oligocholia (deficiency of bile), etc. Olig^O-Amnios.—A deficient quantity of liquor amnii in the pregnant uterus. See Oligohydramnios. Olig^OChromemia. — Diminution in the amount of hjjemoglobin in the blood, a morbid state usually, but not always, associated with a fall in the number of red blood corpuscles ; the term oligochrosis has been given to deficiency of hemoglobin in the red corpuscles. Olig^ocythaemia or Oligrocy- tOSiS.—Diminution in the number of red blood corpuscles in the blood. See Blood {Corpus- cular Elements, Number) ; Anaemia {Condition of the Blood); Anemia, Pernicious {Corpuscular Elements). Olig'Og'ala.Ctia. — A deficiency in the milk secretion in the puerperium and during lactation. See Puerperium, Pathology {Con- ditions interfering with Suckling). OligOgflobulia. See Oligocyth/Emia. Oligohydramnios.—Deficiency in the amount of liquor amnii in the pregnant uterus. See Labour, Prolonged, Faults in the Passenger {Liquor Amnii); Pregnancy, Pathology of. Ovum and Decidua {Affections of the Amnion). OligOlecithal.—Ova whose cytoplasm (formative yolk) contains scattered granules of deutoplasm (nutritive yolk) are termed oligo- lecithal (Gr. AeKt^os pulse-porridge). OI i go mania. —Monomania. Oligomenorrhcea.—Diminished men- strual flow without complete suspension of the function. Oligophosphaturia.—A diminution in the amount of phosphates in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). OligOSidersemia. — A diminution in the amount of iron in the blood. Oligospermia.—A deficiency in the seminal secretion. Oliguria.—A diminution in the amount of urine excreted. See Hysteria {Disorders of Urinary Systeni). Olivary.—Resembling an olive in shape and size, e.g. the olivary body or olive of the medulla oblongata. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Medulla Oblongata, Structure). Olive Oil.—Oleum olivse is the oil of the fruit of the olive {Olea europcea); it consists chiefly of the oleate of glyceryl {oleine), and of palmitine; it is a pale yellow fluid ; it is used in the making of glycerine and soap, and is contained in certain oflicial plasters, ointments, and liniments; and the dose for internal use is ^ to 1 fl. oz. Externally it is employed in massage, and internally it acts as a mild laxative or may be used as an enema, and has been given in cases of gall-stones. Equal parts of olive oil and lime water form linimentum calcis, much used as a soothing application in burns and scalds. Olive oil is also of use in cases of corrosive poisoning. Oliver Bark.—Black sassafras or Oliveri Cortex is the bark of the Cinnamomum Oliveri, and is oflicial in the Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopeia of 1898; there is a Tinctura Oliveri Corticis (dose, | to 1 fl. dr.), and the drug is used for the same purposes as cinnamon {q.v.). Oliver's Arteriometer. See Pulse {Meai^vrement of Arterial Pressure). Oi i ver's Haemocy to meter. — An instrument for making a rapid and a rough estimate of the number of red blood corpuscles ; it depends upon the detection of the transverse line caused by a candle - flame when viewed