54 NEW-BORN INFANT jaundice of the new-born). The mammary glands in both the male and the female infant are frequently active soon after birth, and in consequence a little milky fluid may he squeezed out. The temperature at birth is a little above that which is normal for the child and adult, being 99° F. ; and it remains at that level for the first week under healthy conditions; but it is well to remember the great tendency that exists in new-born, and especially in prema- turely born infants to chilling of the body. Rapid increase in size and weight is character- istic of the foetus in utero, and this chai'acter is retained by the new-born infant, but in less degree. In this respect also transition is to be noted. Weighing about seven and a half pounds (3000 grms.) at birth, the new-born loses about 200 gi-ms. during the first two days, regains its original birth-weight about the fifth day, and thereafter increases in weight at about the rate of 26 grms. a day for the remainder of the first month. This may be contrasted with the daily increase at the end of the first year, viz., from 5 to 10 grms. The length of the new-born is from 19|- to 20 inches (49 to 50 cms.), and during the first month this is added to to the extent of 3 inches (7'5 cms.); the whole body does not grow at an equal rate, the greatest rapidity being shown by the lower limbs. During intra- uterine existence the physiology of the nervous system almost entirely consists in the perform- ance of reflex actions by the spinal cord, the cerebral centres being largely quiescent; after birth the spinal cord continues to functionate, and the cerebrum and higher centres begin to awake to activity slowly. Voluntary move- ments do not occur in the first month of life ; the movements that are seen are either reflex or instinctive. The plantar reflex usually shows itself in extension of the toes ; when it takes the form of flexion it is commonly in infants whose birth has been instrumental or otherwise ab- normal, as has been demonstrated by Finizio. The patellai", like the plantar reflex, is almost constantly met with in the new-born ; but some others, and especially the cremasteric, are often absent. The special senses of sight, hearing, smell, and taste are in operation within a few days of birth, the sense of taste in all proba- bility being the first to be developed; by them the infant has perceptions or rather " recepts." The sense of touch is already present at birth. The activity of the digestive organs, like that of the respiratory organs, begins at birth, for it is improbable that any marked functioning of the buccal, gastric, or intestinal glands occurs in utero. Even at birth, and for some six or seven months later, the food is little altered in the mouth ; very little saliva is secreted, and only that coming from the parotids has a dia- static action. The gastric glands are, however, quite capable of fully digesting human milk, although there is some doubt as to the exact chemistry of the process; some digestion of starch can also be accomplished in the stomach of the new-born, but it is small in amount and not to be relied upon. The hepatic secretion of bile is established at birth, for the gall-bladder is often found distended in infants dying at or soon after their expulsion from the uterus; but the bile is poor in its characteristic constituents, with the exception of the bile pigments. The secretion of the pancreas in the new-born is effective in forming peptones and in emulsify- ing fat, but its action on starch is very limited. The new-born infant has normally from three to four stools daily; for three or four days the fseces consist of the greenish-black meconium made up of the intestinal contents of foetal life, and destitute at first of putrefactive products and of bacteria; thereafter the motions are pale yellow or orange in colour, have a soapy con- sistence, and are composed of digestive milk from which the nutritive constituents have been removed by absorption. Management of the New-boi-n Infant. — The hygiene of the new-born has peculiarities which depend upon the transitional state of its physi- ology, and upon the fact that the organism has just passed from an intra-uterine to an extra- uterine environment. There are two great governing principles, viz., to keep up the body heat, and to make no further call upon the organs in their imperfectly developed state than they can reply to. Immediately after birth the child is to be drawn from under the bed-clothes and turned upon the right side with the back towards the mother's genitals ; it will then usually begin to cry loudly, and attention may be turned to the ligation of the umbilical cord. The root of the cord should be first inspected to note that it is free from a loop of intestine which some- times is found protruding into it; then a sterilised ligature of elastic tape, or of thin silk threads (in the form of a skein) is applied to the cord, about two finger-breadths from the abdominal wall, and tied tightly; a second ligature of the same material is attached on the distal side of the first; and the cord is divided between the two by means of a pair of probe-pointed sharp-edged scissors which shall have been sterilised. Recently other methods of treating the umbilical cord have been recom- mended, but have not yet been widely adopted; amongst these are omphalotripsy, which con- sists in the compression of the root of the cord with strong forceps (omphalotribe), and the primary amputation method of Dickinson. The cut end shoidd be examined to see that there is no bleeding from the vessels, washed with some weak carbolic lotion, and dressed with wood wool or iodoform gauze. In the first place, however, the infant has to be bathed. For this purpose the nurse takes her place in front of an open fire with the child on her lap.