357 PARASITES leucocytes. The parasite, when once encap- siiled, does not exhibit any further change, and yet is capable of retaining its vitality for many years. The capsule, however, frequently under- goes secondary changes. Of these the most important is calcification, which occurs first at the poles of the capsule. This change is often deferred for years, more especially in the pig, and in man it rarely occurs before the fifth month, and in the pig until after the seventh month. Even within a calcified capsule the trichina often preserves its vitality for years. Other, though less important, changes are hyaline degeneration and the formation of adipose tissue, which occurs towards the poles of the capsule. Tyichinous Pork.—If the pig die or be killed within six weeks of infection, one finds signs of acute enteritis and both adult and embryonic trichinae in the intestine. At a later stage the trichinae are found only in the flesh. To the naked eye small scattered greyish points are seen, but are not readily detected unless calcifi- cation has occurred. They are most likely to be confounded with Sarcocystis Miescheri {vide p. 343); the cyst of the latter, however, is usually unmistakably larger than are the capsules of trichinae. For diagnosis it is advisable that small fragments of the flesh should be cut out, placed on a slide, teased out or subjected to pressure, O'l per cent acetic acid solution added, and the specimen examined with a magnification of about 40. Portions of the flesh of all pigs slaughtered in Germany are subjected to sys- tematic examination of this nature. If larval trichinae are found the whole carcase should be condemned. It may be important, however, to ascertain whether the trichinae be alive or dead. To do so, the slide bearing the teased-out muscle is heated to 35''-40° C, and if the trichinae are alive they will exhibit more or less active movement. A more reliable method is that of feeding a sparrow with the suspected flesh. In birds the larval trichinae become sexually mature, and produce a fresh brood of embryos; but the latter do not migrate to the muscles, but are expelled with the faeces. The sparrow is therefore killed about ten hours later, and its intestinal contents examined microscopi- cally. Were the trichinae alive when ingested, they are now seen in active movement on the slide ; but were they dead, they are now motion- less and uncoiled, or perhaps only fragments of the dead worms have resisted digestion. Larval trichinae soon perish if subjected to heat. Krabbe (quoted by Neumann), for ex- ample, found that small pieces of infected pork were rendered innocuous by immersion in water at 55° C. for five minutes, at 54" C. for ten to fifteen minutes, and at 52'5° C. for twenty-five to thirty minutes. In actual practice thirty-six minutes' boiling for each kilogram of weight is found to kill all trichinae with certainty. Again, as with cysticerci, roasting is less reliable than boiling, for unless the central portions of the joint be thoroughly cooked, the trichinae will retain their vitality. Ordinary freezing has no effect on trichinae, and salting and smoking, though often efficacious, are both unreliable. The prophylactic measures to be employed against trichiniasis are, therefore, the systematic examination of the flesh of all pigs slaughtered, and, what is still more important, because such examination is not entirely reliable, the thorough cooking of all pork, ham, or sausage. The clinical features of trichiniasis in the human subject are dealt with in the article " Muscles," vol. vi. Strongylid/e are all characterised by having six oral papillae, and by the males having a caudal bursa. Representatives of three genera, Eustrongylus, Strongylus, and Uncinaria, have to be considered. Eustrongylus visceralis (Gmelin, 1789); Syn. : Eiistrongylus gigas (Rudolphi, 1802) is of a blood-red colour. The male measures as much as 40 cm. in length, 4-6 cm. in transverse diameter, and has one spicule. The female may be 100 cm. long, and is oviparous. It is a parasite of the pelvis of the kidney which it destroys. It is chiefly seen in the dog, less frequently in the horse, ox, or other animal, and in a few isolated cases has been discovered in man. Sti'ongylus suhtilis (Looss, 1895). — This species has been found in the small intestine of native inhabitants in Cairo and Alexandria. The male is 4-5 mm. long, and has two spicules ; the female is 5-7 mm. long, and oviparous. Strongyli are very frequent parasites in the bronchi of the lower animals. There are eight difl^erent species, and all are pathogenetic. The most important are Str. filaria in the sheep and goat, Str. 7nicrurus in bovine animals, and Str. par adorns in the pig. Str. paradoxus has in one or two instances been detected in man. Lastly, there is Str. rufescens which inhabits the bronchi of sheep and goats, the eggs and embryos infecting the lungs and causing ex- tensive broncho-pneumonia or nodular lesions resembling tuberculosis. The disease is very common and fatal in lambs during spring and early summer. There is no analogous condition in the human subject. Uncitiaria duodenalis (Dubini, 1843); Syn. : Ankylostoma duodenale (Dubini, 1843); Sclero- storna duodenale (Cobbold, 1864); Dochmius duodenalis (Leuckart, 1876); etc.—The mouth of each worm bears six chitinous teeth. The male is 6-10 mm. long, and at the posterior extremity has a trilobed, somewhat bell-shaped bursa with two long slender spicules. The female is on an average 11'4 mm. in length, the vulva is in the posterior third of the body, and the caudal extremity is pointed. The eggs are oval, about 50 jx long by 35 fx broad, and