528 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUKO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM in another, while stimuli which will produce what are called painful sensations when the nervous system is debilitated may give rise to sensations not considered as painful when the nervous system is normal. The mechanism of common sensibility is not acted on by the same stimuli in all parts of the body. The mouth and throat are the parts to which the sensations are referred in abstinence from fluids, the stomach in the absence of food. The intestine appears to give rise to sensation only when abnormally stimulated. In the skin the mechanism of common sensibility is so closely associated with the mechanism of the tactile and temperature senses that it is difficult to diiTerentiate them. Abnormal stimulation of the skin produces painful sensations very readily, while similar changes in other tissues —e.g. muscles—cause no modification of con- sciousness. The nerve channels by which the changes producing common sensibility are transmitted in the central nervous system are distinct from those connected with the tactile and other senses, and common sensibility may persist while the tactile sense is lost {see p. 530). B. Proprio-ceptive Spinal Mechanism Kincesthetic or Muscle and Joint Sense.— The importance of the action of the receptors which are stimulated by the action of muscles has been indicated in the study of reflex action. A double mechanism is involved— 1st, A mechanism stimu- lated by the contraction of the muscles; and 2nd, A mechanism acted on by movements at the joints. The receptors are of three kinds:— (1st) M'uscle Spindles.— Among the fibres of the muscles are found long fusi- form structures containing modified parts of the muscle fibres. Into each spindle Fig. 45. — structure of j n x i muscle spiudie — only a meduUated nerve passes one fibre represented. a,nd breaks up into a non- b, capsular space; c, t n i "S capsule; p, motor ter- medullated plexus round ^^^i.r'J^'''^ the fibres (Fig. 45). spindle fibre. (From (•2nd) Or(/a7lS of Goloi SLre Kegaud and Favre.) n i • ,, small fibrous capsules in the tendons near the muscle fibres into which a medullated fibre enters, and losing its white sheath forms a plexus of fibrils with varicosities upon them. (3rd) Varicose terminations of axons sur- rounded by fibrous tissues are found in the synovial membranes and round joints. Through these mechanisms information is transmitted to the central nervous system as to the position and movements of the various parts, and this, as has been already indicated, although not necessarily modifying the con- sciousness, is of the utmost importance in guiding the movements. When the conscious- ness is affected, valuable information as to the conditions of the surroundings may be gained. In estimating the weight of bodies, these sensa- tions are much used. The body to be weighed is taken in the hand, and by determining the amount of muscular contraction required to support or raise it, the weight is estimated. The shape and size of objects are also deter- mined by this sense in conjunction with the sense of touch. If we touch a book on the table we can form an idea of its shape and size by estimating the distance through which the hand touching it may be moved in different directions. In the dark the distance of objects is also judged by estimating the extent of movement of the hand and arm necessary to touch them. The sensations derived from the joint and muscle senses are often lost or im- paired, and the condition of the mechanism may be tested by ascertaining the smallest difference of weight which can be appreciated. With moderate weights of about one pound, a differ- ence of about 5 per cent can usually be detected in the normal condition. The receptors in deeply-seated structures may also be stimulated by pressure from without, for Head has found that after the cutaneous nerves to a part have been divided, pressure with the point of a pencil is still felt and well localised. C. EXTBRO-CEPTIVB MECHANISM The Special Senses.—As we have already seen, the outside of the body is richly supplied with a variety of receptors, each one of which has a low threshold of stimulation for one particular kind of stimulus and a very high threshold for all other kinds. We have further seen that these may be divided into receptors, stimulated by changes set up close to the body—non-distance receptors —and receptors acted upon by changes which may originate at a distance—distance receptors. Among the former may be classed the receptors in the skin and mouth, and among the latter those in the nose, ear, and eye. Non-distance Receptors (a) For Contact.—Tactile Sense.—Even after the nerves from a portion of skin have been cut, contact with the point of a pencil is felt, but a prick with a sharp pin, heat and cold, and such gentle contact as touching a hair are no longer felt, and, if a fold of skin is pinched up, and a pencil pressed on the side of the fold, it is not felt. This means that deeply-placed receptors, the fibres of which travel with motor nerves, can be stimulated by pressure through the skin. This, however, is not the mechanism concerned in true tactile sense.