NOSE—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 89 primary chancre has been met with on the nasal mucosa; in such an unfortunate infection, of rare occurrence, the diagnosis would have to be made from a sarcoma. Under antisyphilitic treatment the chancre disappears, leaving a slight scar. In the secondary stage a general nasal catarrh may occur, often slight and liable to be overlooked. The lesions more commonly observed and causing greatest destruction, are those met with in the tertiary stage, and must be grouped amongst the later manifestations of this stage. They may be the result of infection or the outcome of a hereditary taint. The septum and the iloor of the nose are the parts firstly and mainly affected. It is highly important that the gummy tumour which pre- cedes the ulceration should not be overlooked; by its early detection and by antisyphilitic treatment being vigorously pushed, a consider- able amount of destruction may be averted. A gumma usually develops on the septum and near the floor of the nose, and may be situated far back. It is therefore necessary in a sus- pected case, when an examination of the anterior nares gives a negative result, to thoroughly investigate the posterior nares by rhinoscopy. A small gumma not uncommonly occurs in the region of the raphe on the roof of the mouth, which, on breaking down, may involve the floor of the nose, or it may be due to extension of the disease from the nose. By careful examination with a fine, flexible, and blunt-pointed probe a minute opening, at first not visible to the eye, may be found leading up to the floor of the septum, and in this way bare bone may be opportunely detected. An examination made in this way, through the mouth, has enabled the writer to detect syphi- litic disease of the nose at a time when the objective evidence in the nose itself was not sufficient to permit of a definite conclusion being arrived at, and at a time when the greatest amount of benefit could be gained by treatment. When syphilis attacks the septum, ulceration and perforation, as is well known, is of common occurrence, and can be distinguished, it is said, from that of a simple nature by the bone being involved. By extension of the morbid process the turbinated bodies may be destroyed and the accessory sinuses opened up. As the result of the contraction of the con- nective tissue, subsequent to the destruction of the nasal bones, the condition of so-called " saddle-back" nose appears: but it is the opinion of some—which opinion is shared by the writer — that this appearance may be occasioned by causes other than syphilis. Syphilis may attack and be localised in the nasopharynx, which further emphasises the importance of posterior rhinoscopy in these ■cases. A tertiary lesion localised in the naso- pharynx may lead to dangerous haemorrhage. Cases have been recorded in which, after the loss of a necrotic part of a cervical vertebra, fatal haemorrhage has occurred from the carotid and vertebral arteries. Mention must also be made of the inherited variety in infants, characterised by a catarrhal condition of the nasal mucosa, giving rise to snuffles, and seriously interfering with respiration and feeding. The diagnosis of nasal syphilis, as a rule, is not difiicult. Chronic glanders, with which it may be confused, is a rare disease, and tuber- culosis does not occasion so much destniction ; moreover, a bacterioscopic examination will generally eliminate any error in diagnosis. Lupus, in a certain group of cases, it is difficult to exclude, excepting by a course of antisyphilitic treatment. The treatment of the nasal condition is essentially that of the disease itself, and, as has already been mentioned, the remedies must be vigorously pushed. It is as well to give iodides in conjunction with mercurial treatment. The parts should be kept cleansed with anti- septic douches; and in infants, in order to keep the meatuses free, the passage of a soft tube may become necessary. In the tertiary lesions the separation of the resulting sequestra may be tedious and difficult, and it has been suggested that this may be overcome by boring the bone and loosening it with a hook, separation in this way being more readily obtained. The discomfort occasioned by a perforation through the roof of the mouth may be met with a plug, at first of soft material, such as cotton-wool, and after cicatri- cial contraction has taken place, with an arti- ficial plate; if after withdrawal of antispecific treatment no relapse takes place, operative closure of the perforation may be attempted. Tuberculosis.—The number of cases of tuber- culosis of the mucous membrane of the nose that have been so far recorded is very small. Primary infection may be set up with the finger, chronic catarrh and crusts contributing to form a suitable nidus; but nasal tuberculosis is visually associated with the disease in the lungs or other organs. It ultimately presents itself in the form of vilcer or tumour, the two often co-existing. The cartilaginous portion of the septum is the more usual seat of the disease, but it may also occur on the turbinate bodies. The tumour may be of sufficient size to com- pletely block the nostril. When an ulcer forms on the septum it is commonly indefinitely circular, of a greyish colour, and perhaps per- forating, haemorrhage readily taking place when an examination is made. The symptoms, as already mentioned, are mainly a tendency to haemorrhage, nasal ob- struction, and an increase of nasal secretion, which may become offensive ; but pain is rarely present. The diagnosis has to be made from lupus.