PARASITES 338 the intestinal wall. 2. By the presence of the parasite exciting inflammatory reaction in the tissues (larval Trichinae, Cysticerci, etc.). 3. By withdrawal of nutrient material, as when there are many large intestinal worms. 4. By removal of blood, e.g. by Uncinaria duodenalis and others. 5. By production of poisonous substances, e.g. malarial protozoa, Cestodes, Uncinaria duodenalis, TricJiocephalus trichiurus, etc. (v. Linstow, 1896 ; Peiper, 1897 ; and many other authorities). The various substances which resemble, and may be mistaken for parasites, are termed pseudoparasites. The animal parasites may be considered under the three headings:— A. Protozoa, B. Parasitic worms (Helminths), C. Arthropods. Protozoa The protozoa are unicellular animals, the simplest of all animal organisms. Their general form and structure, the modes of movement, nutrition, and multiplication have been con- sidered in vol. vi. p. 388. Their classification into five classes is the most satisfactory. Four of these five classes have to be considered, namely :— I. Movement effected by pseu- dopodia . . . Rhizopoda. II. Movement effected by fla- gellse .... Mastigophora. III. Movement variously effect- ed, usually impaired. Multiplication by numer- ous encapsuled reproduc- tive bodies (spores) . Sporozoa. IV. Cilia present throughout life, nutrition by osmosis or cytostoma . . Ciliata. Rhizopoda ; Syn. : Sarcodina. — The cell protoplasm is either simple or differentiated into ecto- and ento-plasm. Movement and nutrition occur by means of pseudopodia, re- production is by division. Of the five orders included in this class only two, Amoehina and Mycetozoa, are parasitic. But the latter are parasitic only on plants, hence only the parasites laelonging to the order Amoebina have to be considered. Genus Amoeba.—Many organisms of this genus inhabit fresh or salt water, others are parasitic. Within the last few years attempts, but hitherto without success, have been made to isolate and cultivate amoebae on artificial media, in some instances by providing bacteria as the source of nourishment (Ogata, 1893; Celli and Fiocca, 1896; Schardinger, 1896; etc.). Doflein (1901) considers that the cultures obtained have usually been Mycetozoa and not true amoebcB. Amoeba coli (Loesch, 1875) is 10-50 ^l. in diameter, rounded or irregular, uninuclear, has coarsely granular entoplasm with several non- contractile vacuoles, and often contains foreign particles ; pseudopodia are short and finger-like. Multiplication is by division whilst still motile Fig. 1.—Ammha coli. (Brauii, after Kovacs.) or after becoming encysted. The encysted amoebse possess a much greater power of resist- ance than does the ordinary amoeba, and it is possible that infection of the host occurs by the ingestion of the former. A. coli has been found most frequently in the fseces and large intestine of man, though also in water and soil polluted by dejecta. The parasite has been observed in the stools of healthy persons and of those suffer- ing from dysentery, typhoid fever, cholera, etc., and also in the pus of tropical hepatic abscesses. The chief interest of A. coli lies in its association with dysentery, for although a direct etiological connection of the parasite with this disease has hitherto not been proven, it is generally held that in those types of the disease designated "amoebic dysentery," A. coli plays a part to- gether with one or more species of pathogenetic bacteria in the causation of the disease. It is suggested, but on grounds which appear quite indecisive, that there are at least two distinct species of intestinal amoebse—the one, A. dysen- terice, found only in dysentery, and differing from the ordinary saprophytic A. coli in being smaller and more finely granular. Further details regarding A. coli will be found in the articles on Dysentery in vol. ii., and on Tropical Abscess of the Liver in vol. v. Amoebse, possibly identical with A. coli, and of doubtful pathogenicity, have been observed in the urine of patients suffering from ha3ma- turia, within cysts in the mucosa of the urinary bladder, and in a sequestrum from the inferior maxilla. Saprophytic amoebse are also found in the intestine of several species of animals, but it is doubtful whether A. parasitica, described by von Lendenfeld (1885) as causing a fatal skin disease in lambs in Australia, is a protozoon. The rhizopods found by Leyden and Schaudinn (1896) in ascitic fluid resemble amoebse in many respects. Mastigophora.—All the parasitic organisms are contained in the subclass of the Flagellata. These all possess flagellse; nutrition is main- tained in a variety of ways; multiplication is by fission, either when in a free or resting stage. There is frequently a sexual multiplication also. Many flagellates are parasitic in insects. Those which concern us here are all included in one