366 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF have been followed by an inflammation of the parotid gland. Some surgeons believe that parotitis is especially likely to occur after operations on the female generative organs, even when there is no indication of general pytemia. Parotitis is an occasional complication of typhus, relapsing, and enteric fever; more rarely it is a complication of gout. Recurrent swelling of both parotid glands has been noticed in some cases of xerostomia or dry mouth, and these cases give a clue to the cause of the in- flammation in typhoid fever, for the irritation due to the dryness of the mouth extends from the buccal mucous membrane along Stensen's duct to the glandular alveoli. Mr. Stephen Paget has carefully considered the relationship of parotitis to pelvic and abdominal lesions. He believes that cases of parotitis associated with injuries to these parts form a group by themselves, and are not as a rule accompanied by signs of septicaemia or pyaemia. Suppurative parotitis, or parotid bubo, is perhaps the most common and best known form of parotic inflammation next to mumps. It occurs in weakly subjects after childbirth, and as a sequel of erysipelas, typhoid fever, cholera, syphilis, diphtheria, and smallpox. It is a result of mercurial poisoning and of any acute infective inflammation of the gland, or it may start from a boil, from inflammation of the temporo-maxillary joint, or in an osteitis of the lower jaw. The onset of the attack is usually marked by the ordinary symptoms of an acute inflammation, though the commencement may be masked when the patient is suff"ei-ing from a serious illness. The parotid region is swollen, the swelling being hard at first, but becoming oedematous and diff"usely red at a later period. Every movement of the jaw is painful, and the patient can scarcely open his mouth, and has difficulty in swallowing. The swelling attains its maximum about the third or fourth day, and is elastic, but does not fluctuate; it may then undergo resolution, but much more often it suppurates; in rare cases the swelling in- creases rapidly, and the gland becomes gangren- ous. The suppuration occurs quickly, and as the pus is formed beneath the strong capsule of the gland, it burrows in many directions before it points beneath the skin. It may pass down- wards into the chest, upwards into the cavity of the skull, backwards along the phai-ynx, into the middle ear, or into the articulation of the lower jaw. Serious haemorrhage may take place from ulceration of the large vessels run- ning through the gland, or the facial, jugular, and even the cavernous sinus may become thrombosed. Destruction of the facial nerve may lead to an incurable facial paralysis. The treatment is either prophylactic or cura- tive. The prophylactic treatment consists in carefully cleansing the mouth in all cases where it is likely that an infective inflammation may spread to the salivary glands. The curative treatment requires that the presence of pus should be recognised as soon as possible, and that means should be taken immediately to permit of its escape, and to prevent its accumulation under pressure. The pus is evacuated by drawing the gland well forwards, and then making an incision parallel with the main branches of the facial nerve. The scalpel should not be entered behind a line drawn fi-om the front of the condyle to the angle of the lower jaw, lest the external carotid artery be injured, and it should be laid aside altogether as soon as the capsule of the gland has been divided. The operation is completed by passing a pair of dressing forceps into the gland until pus escapes. The incision through the skin, and the opening into the gland, must be of sufficient size to allow the pus to escape freely, and a drainage tube should be inserted to prevent any reaccumulation. The whole region must be well fomented with boracic compresses. Syphilitic and tuberculous inflammations of the parotid have been described, but although they are possible, it seems more likely that the condition described has been due to enlargement of the lymphatic glands which lie in and upon the gland. {See also article " Salivary Glands, Disorders of.") Tumours The tumours of the parotid gland have been very carefully studied hj many observers, for they off'er points of great interest. Like tumours in other parts, they are extrinsic or intrinsic, innocent or malignant, solid and cystic. The extrinsic tumours are those which lie above the capsule of the gland, and may yet be mis- taken for parotid tumours. Sebaceous cysts, dermoids, and enlarged lymphatic glands are the more common forms. Dermoid cysts in the parotid region sometimes present a peculiar modification of their contents, which seems to be almost pure oil instead of the ordinary secretion of the skin. N£evi, cystic lymphangiomata, lipomata, and lymphadenomata also occur in the cheek over the parotid. These tumours are usually bounded by the capsule of the gland, and are thus extrinsic, but they sometimes involve the substance of the gland itself. The true nature of a parotid naevus may be overlooked, as the skin remains unaffected, but they may be removed without dangerous bleeding if the ordinary precautions be taken to arrest haemor- rhage at the time of the operation. The cystic lymphangiomata sometimes show a tendency to disappear spontaneously, but as they are usually large, unsightly, and occur in children, who may thus be prevented from receiving an ordinary school education, I prefer to remove them. Single cysts, formed slowly and filled with a