PELLAGRA 378 stand out in marked contrast with the appear- ances of tabes dorsahs. Diagnosis. — A typical case presents no difficulty, because it is the only known disease causing dermatitis on exposed parts of the body, a denuded tongue, sleeplessness, altered knee- jerk, and tenderness on pressure in the dorsal region. The disease occurs in peasants and beggars who live chiefly on maize. Ichthyosis is the only skin disease likely to be confounded with pellagra. P7-ognosis,—Early cases can be cured by giving a generous diet and excluding maize. Dangerous symptoms are obstinate diarrhoea and insomnia, total loss of knee-jerks, increas- ing emaciation, suicidal melancholia or de- mentia, and the concurrence of tubercle. Prophylaxis. — Improve the miserable con- dition of pellagrous peasants, and teach them the difference between good and bad food. Sound maize flour, damped and kept at a temperature of 77° to 86° F., will remain sweet for more than twenty-four hours, whereas diseased flour will give off a disagreeable odour in less than eight hours. The Government should inspect all markets and prevent the import of sea-damaged maize. Italy, since 1890, has provided some of the pellagrous districts with improved means for drying, storing, and baking maize, besides retreats for the care of patients. Treatment.—Fresh air, rest, ablutions, and a liberal diet are the first essentials. Even sound maize should be excluded from the diet for fear of unconsciously adding to the poison. If iron or quinine is not specially called for by antemia or malaria, strychnia and arsenic will be found the best tonics. Baths and zinc ointment will help the skin eruptions to disappear. Insomnia may require opium or bromides, and the diarrhoea will tax every effort of food and drugs. Since 1889, attempts have been made to find an antitoxic serum by Babes and others. Pelletierine.—An alkaloid (CgHijNO) contained in pomegranate bark. See Granati Cortex. Pelotherapy.—The treatment of dis- eases by means of mud (Gr. irrjXos, mud or clay). Pelvic.—Relating to the pelvis, e.g. pelvic abscess, pelvic diameters, pelvic inlet, etc. See Pelvis. Pelvimetry.—The measurement of the various diameters and circumferences of the pelvis by means of special instruments (pelvi- meters, callipers, etc.) or directly by the hand or fingers. See Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed (Pelvic Deformities, Diagnosis). Pelvis. See Bone, Diseases of {Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis, Special Clinical Features in Pelvis); Broad Ligament, Diseases of (Pelvic Abscess) ; Deformities (Rickets, Pel- vis) ; Fractures (The Pelvis); Generation, Female Organs of (Osseous Pelvis, Diarneters, Planes, Obliquity, etc.) ; Generation, Female Organs of (Pelvic Floor); Gonorrhceal Infec- tion (Pelvic Peritonitis); Hip-Joint, Injuries OF (Dislocation, Fracture, etc.); Kidney, Surgi- cal Affections of (Perinephric Abscess, Eti- ology) ; Labour, Physiology of (Factors, Hard Passages); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Podalic Lies, etc.); Labour, Management op (Breech Cases, etc.); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged (Pelvic Deformities, Common and Pare ; Pelvimetry, etc.); Labour, Accidental Complications Affecting the Child (Injwries to Breech); Labour, Injuries to the Genera- tive Organs (Pelvic Floor, Pelvic Articulations); Labour, Obstetric Operations (Induction For- ceps, Version, Embryotomy, Cleidotomy, Sym- physiotomy, Ccesarean Section in Contracted Pelvis); Lungs, Vascular Disorders (Pulmon- ary Embolism, Causes, Pelvic Thrombosis); Lym- phatic System (Pelvic Lymphatic Glands); Menstruation and its Disorders (Dysmenor- rhoea, Causes, Pelvic Peritonitis, etc.); Osteo- malacia (Deformity of Pelvis, Triradiate) ; Ovaries, Diseases of (Broad Ligament Cysts, etc.); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor ; Pelvis, Diseases of Cellular Tissues ; Phy- siology, Neuromuscular Mechanism (Pelvic Nerves); Post - mortem Methods (Abdominal Examination, Pelvis); Pregnancy, Physiology of (Pelvic Joints, etc.); Pregnancy, Pathology OF Ovum and Decidua (Pelvic Cellulitis and Molar Pregnancy); Puerperium, Pathology (Puerperal lifection. Pelvic Peritonitis and Cellulitis); Spine, Surgical Affections (Lateral Curvature, Pelvic Deformity); Uterus, Dis- placements OF (Prolapse, Displacement of Pelvic Floor Segments). Pelvis—Perineum and Pelvic Floor Introductory — St7-uctural Anatomy of the Pelvic Floor . . . ' . . .379 Faults in the Fixed Portion of the Pelvic Floor— 1. Descent of the Pelvic Floor . .380 2. Perineal Tears .... 380 3. Rectocele ..... 383 Faults in the Fixed Portion, together WITH Faulty Connection between the Fixed and the Movable Portions of the Pelvic Floor— 1. Sacro-pubic Hernia, or Prolapsus Uteri 384 2. Cystocele 386 Faults in the Movable Portion op the Pelvic Floor— Vaginal Enterocele .... 387 Anterior ..... 387 Posterior .... . 387