297 PARALYSIS entirely of fat; this fat becomes deposited between the atrophied fibres, and not in them. Not infrequently small areas of muscle retain their normal development. In a muscle which has undergone almost complete degeneration several muscle-spindles can be seen; these contain one or more perfectly normal muscle fibres with normal transverse striation, and in suitably stained specimens it can be shown that the nerve fibres supplying these spindles are perfectly normal. In some cases the muscle, instead of becoming fatty, is found to be sclerosed, that is to say, the muscle fibres undergo atrophy, connective tissue increases between the fibres, and, finally, the muscle becomes simply a mass of connective tissue in which, however, on section the normal muscle-spindles can still be shown to be present. Pathology.—All observers will agree that the vessels in the affected area are thrombosed, and that there are signs of inflammatory reaction around them. But the question whether such thrombosis is a primary or secondary condition is one on which opinions differ. In considering this question it should be borne in mind that the disease is of greatest frequency during the hot period of the year, that it occurs in epidemics, and after the acute specific fevers. These various factors suggest that the primary cause of the disease is not common to all cases, but that the various causes, be they the ex- posure to chill in hot weather, or bacterial or other infection, produce a morbid blood state which is the cause of the disease. The view that is most widely accepted nowadays is that the condition is infective in origin, and the changes that result are inflammatory in character. There is, however, much to be said in favour of the view that the process is one depending on a primary thrombosis of the vessels, and in support of this statement may be cited the rapid onset of the paralysis simulating a vascular rather than an inflam- matory lesion, the limitation of the destructive process to the area of the cord supplied by a branch or branches of the artery of the anterior median fissure, and that both the acute con- dition with mviltiple extravasations of blood and the subsequent softening simulate the condition which is seen in the brain after thrombosis of the smaller vessels. The wide distribution of the paralysis at the onset is easily accounted for by the vascular disturbance taking place in the artery of the anterior median fissure which supplies the whole of the anterior horns, and the fact that smaller areas of thrombosis are found at various levels is only what might be expected as the result of the retardation of the blood-stream in the vessel. With a vascular theory to explain the condition, it is not diflScult to see vvhy the lumbar region of the cord should be more fre- quently affected than the cervical or dorsal, for it must be noted that the lumbar region lies at a point most distant from the blood-supply, and also it has been shown by Moxon that this part of the cord fails to become injected experiment- ally through the reinforcing arteries which pass up in the roots. Bacteriology has yet to prove that there is one specific organism to which the disease is due. Prognosis.—During the acute stage, while the disease is still advancing, it is impossible to say how far it will extend ; if the intercostal muscles become aff'ected and the diaphragm is alone carrying on respiration, the occurrence of slight broncho-pneumonia is sufficient to cause a fatal issue. It is, however, most exceptional for a child to die during the acute stage of the disease. It may be stated as a general rule that the amount of paralysis in the acute stage is considerably in excess of that which is present in the later stages, so that a child who at the onset is paralysed in all four extremities will frequently recover completely so far as the arms are con- cerned, leaving one leg completely paralysed and the other weak; so too when the whole of one leg is at first affected, the residual paralysis may be limited to a single group of muscles. The more rapid the improvement during the first month after the onset the better the prognosis; on the other hand, some cases im- prove very slowly, and the improvement may extend over as long a period as two years. After two years very little improvement is to be looked for, but here again exceptions are met with in which the disease has been of several years' standing, and in which by graduated exercises considerable improvement is obtained. It has seemed to be that such improvement has taken place in cases in which artificial supports have been used early, and no attempts have been made to make the best use of the muscles that remain. In a few cases recovery is complete, no trace of the disease remaining after four to six weeks. In others no trace of weakness can be recognised until the child is undressed, and then slight wasting of the muscles of one thigh or limb is all that can be detected, and all movements are well performed. Such cases are the exception, and recovery always takes place rapidly in these. It is well to bear in mind the possibility that a progressive muscular atrophy may occur at a later age, but the probability is so remote that the question need hardly be considered in regard to prognosis. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the disease is, as a rule, simple; the acute onset, the loss of power, and the flaccidity of the limb with- out any disturbance of sensation are usually sufficient to make the diagnosis clear. During the early stages of the disease, owing