139 OBESITY going, as opposed to the sanguine, energetic, active, and quick-tempered, and the nervous, fretful, and worrying disposition, are predisposed to the accumulation of fat. Race and Climate.—It has been observed that obesity is more frequent among Orientals, the inhabitants of southern Europe, Dutchmen, Hottentots, etc. This may be to a certain extent accounted for by peculiar food habits and customs. Some Oriental women purposely consume a great excess of fat-forming food to increase their obesity, which is regarded by them as a great personal attraction. It has also been pointed out that the hot sun of southern climates restricts the physiological con- sumption of fat in the production of heat, and this leads to a considerable deposition of fat in the body, while "the moist and warm air of the lowlands and wide plains is more favourable to corpulence than the cooler air of the highlands, which requires the combustion of more fat for the production of heat, and furthermore, owing to the formation of the ground, there is the necessity for greater muscular activity in climb- ing " (Oertel). If the preceding may be regarded as the chief predisposing causes of obesity, the efficient exciting causes are the food habits and general mode of life of the individual. If the regular intake of food exceeds the nutritive requirements of the individual an accumulation in the body of fat will follow, and this will be the more pronounced if the excess of food taken consists of such substances as are readily transformed into fat in the organisms, or which serve to economise the consumption of fat within the body. The carbohydrates and the fatty foods— though the latter in a less degree than the former—are especially prone to favour fat deposition, but it is also certain that albuminous foods are also capable of being converted into fat within the animal body under certain conditions. Ebstein's statement that fat in the food does not give rise to fat formation has been hotly contested, and Oertel remarks with regard to this view: "It is one directly opposed to all physiological investigations. It has arisen only from a misunderstanding of one of Voit's state- ments, whose interpretation in Ebstein's sense has been particularly cautioned against by Voit himself, for which reason it may be passed over as unscientific." Such substances as fat, starchy substances, sugars, cakes, confectionery, and the like, when taken freely tend inordinately to the production and accumulation of fat. Excessive beer-drink- ing has the same effect, and in a somewhat lesser degree all alcoholic drinks, for they not only tend to promote fatty degeneration, but they also, by being burned up in the body, save an equivalent amount of albumin and fat, and so favour the deposition of fat in the body, just as carbohydrates and fats do. Even the excessive consumption of water favours fat formation. This is a fact recognised by all trainers ! When in addition to excess of food we encounter also habits of indolence—an avoidance of physical exercise and an over-indulgence in sleep—we have present additional potent factors leading to the excessive accumulation of fat in the body. All these act through a diminution of the normal oxidation processes within the organisms. Two forms of obesity are generally recognised : (a) the plethoric form, and {b) the ancemic form. (a) The characters of the plethoric form are too common and too obvious to need detailed description. In the early stage the muscles are large and fully developed, the blood is rich in albumin and htemoglobin, the bearing and attitude are erect and confident, the pulse is full and strong. Later on, with physical signs of cardiac hypertrophy, the pulse becomes weaker and less frequent, the respiration is hurried on any exertion, and muscular exercise is associated with effort and fatigue. To this stage succeed other morbid conditions to which we shall immediately recur. (h) The anaimic form is less common. It is most frequently observed in women, young delicate girls with pale faces and much adipose tissue. In them the catamenia are usually scanty, irregular, and often painful. Or they may be older women who have had repeated haemorrhages or endured prolonged lactation, and been fed with unsuitable food. Oi* it may develop in men, especially during convalescence from acute disease, and who, perhaps, have been given large quantities of fat-forming food beyond their capacity of utilisa- tion. In all these cases the excessive accumula- tion of fat depends on the poorness of the blood in hsemoglobin, and the deficiency of oxidation processes dependent thereon. In such persons the temperature is subnormal, the pulse is small and feeble, the heart's action weak, the muscles poorly developed, flabby, and inactive, the surface of the body pale and bloodless. The general energy and mental power of such persons are low, they tire quickly, quickly be- come breathless, suffer from palpitation, and sleep much. Such patients do not often eat or drink to excess, but they are often addicted to faulty food habits, partaking freely of pastry and sweets, and avoiding animal food. Their appetites are usually poor because the digestion is feeble and slow, owing to the hydrsemic blood which flows to the digestive organs, and hence it is that in this form of obesity the deposition of fat is never so great as in the plethoric form. The quality of the fat, too, does not seem to be the same as in persons who have become plethoric by the ingestion of