482 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPKESSION towards the front, may form two straight lines, meeting at an acute angle in front, the palate between them being contracted—that is, it is V-shaped in the horizontal plane. Again, the palate may be highly arched, or vaulted with a Gothic roof, and at the same time contracted laterally. It is not uncommon in observing physiognomy to see a lateral contraction of the superior maxillary bones, leading to sinking in of the sides of the face below the cheeks, while inspection of the mouth shows smallness of the palatine plates and a narrow palate. Sub- normal conditions of the palate are almost as much correlated with abnormality of the individual as defects of the cranium in other parts; they are often associated with adenoid growths and nasal obstruction. The features should be observed separately, and bilateral parts compared. The nose is constructed partly of bone, the anterior portion being formed in cartilage; these parts should be observed separately. The bony bridge of the nose may be wide and thick ; this is often accompanied by obstruction of the respiratory passage. The nostrils may be small, further impeding the air-passages. The ears, like other parts, grow, and should be of a size recognisable as proportional to the head. The normal character seems to depend upon the presence of all parts—the helix, anti- helix, pinna, and lobule. The most frequent abnormality is a large outstanding ear, with defect of the helix and absence of the anti-helix, while the skin is red with varicose venules and adherent to the cartilage. The palpebral fissures may be small though well shapen, leaving but a small space between the lids; the transverse axis from the canthus to the external angle, in place of being hori- zontal, may slope outwards and downwards or upwards. The mouth, as a feature at rest, should be of sufficient size, and the lips thin, without enlargement at the margins of the mucous membrane. A small mouth is the most usual defect, often accompanying a narrow palate and respiratory obstructions. The features collectively may be heavy and flat; parts may be small or large and ill- proportioned. The separate features may not be individually malformed, but disproportionate to one another or to the size of the face; thus, the nose may be small while the face is large, round, flat, the features rising from the plane of the face; a small mouth with small eye- openings gives a blank look. The face, with the upper and lower jaws, may be small, independent of the size of the calvarium or brain-case. As a criterion of the normal de- velopment of a feature all its parts should be present; for instance, in the ear, the helix, anti- helix, pinna, and lobe should be looked at as well as the texture of the skin covering it. Other defects in development might be de- scribed, and the proportions in growth of the body might be referred to, but this belongs rather to the subject of anthropometry than physiognomy. The methods of studying observations of physiognomy, or recorded facts, are important, and should be considered in their relations to other conditions associated with them. It is particularly when dealing with questions as to the constitution or congenital status of the brain of an individual that observation of the physiognomy or development and the expression or neuro-muscular action together give so much aid. The careful study of physiognomical signs and conditions of development, rather than new observations, has afforded recent advance in knowledge; the records of the state of general nutrition of the body, together with the neuro-motor signs of brain action, have been closely studied in their inter-relations, together with other facts in physiology. Various con- ditions of bodily development may be studied among themselves, and also in their relations with other causes of a normal or subnormal state, thus adding to our knowledge and ex- perience in many ways, and throwing a new light on conditions of evolution, reversion, laws of nutrition, causes of infantile mortality, and other matters of interest in relation to diagnosis and etiology. Physiognomical signs, that is, points in developmental growth, prove nothing them- selves with regard to the brain, except the obvious fact that when the head is small the brain which it contains is small also. Still they suggest probabilities of value in pathology and prognosis. When developmental defects are seen coincident with actual signs of brain deficiency, they indicate the probability of congenital origin. Summary and generalisation of observations have shown many new facts; among others, the frequent coincidence of several developmental defects in the same individual. It is largely in connection with the diagnosis of causes of delicacy and low nutrition, as well as brain dis- order, that the study of physiognomy is most useful in clinical medicine. Classification and analysis of the physiognomy in a large number of cases have shown most clearly the greater frequency of developmental irregularities in males, while the low nutrition and delicacy accompanying are greater with females at all ages. Sometimes we may recognise reversion in the type of development, as the Mongolian type, when the palpabral fissures are narrow and slope downwards and outwards. The frequency of this form of development in some idiots has been shown by Dr. Langdon Down and other observers ; it is also not infrequently seen among persons of normal brain-power.