PARALYSIS 267 some months after the onset of the paralysis. Disordered movement is also seen in association with paralysis in diseases such as chorea, in which affection there may be weakness in ad- dition to spontaneous movements; in dissemi- nated sclerosis, in which intention tremor is such a prominent feature ; in paralysis agitans, in which rhythmical tremor, commonly lessened or arrested by voluntary movement, accompanies the progressive weakness ; in general paralysis of the insane, in which tremor of the tongue, face, and hands on voluntary movement is one of the characteristic features of the disease ; and in the tremor that accompanies some forms of hysterical paralysis. So, too, in affections of the cerebellum the prominent symptom is inco- ordination of movement, but this may be ac- companied by motor weakness ; and in multiple peripheral neuritis, although motor paralysis is the chief feature, inco-ordination of movement may be added, and in some cases the latter symptom dominates the clinical picture. Various deformities may result in paralysed parts, where spasm may bring about the dis- tortion, or where they may be due to contracture and permanent shortening of muscles that happen to escape paralysis, or are less affected than their antagonists. Moreover, even when muscles are equally paralysed, posture may determine deformities by facilitating contracture of certain muscles, and thus some habitual position of a part may become permanent, unless altered by treatment. Accounts of various forms of paralysis have already appeared in this and previous volumes of the Dictionary and Encyclopwdia of Medicine; but a large number of important affections of the kind have yet to be dealt with, most of which will be described in this article. Table op the Spinal Segments Their Muscidar and Sensory Supply and Levels Spinal Segment. G 1 C 2 0 3 C 4 C 5 C 6 G 7 C 8 D 1 D 2-3 D 4 D 6 D 9 L 1 L 2 L3 Corre- sponding Spinous Process. C 1 C 2 G 6 C 7 D 1 D 2 D 4 D 6 D 10 D 11 Muscles supplied. Keflex. Small neck muscles Complexiis. Splenius Depressors of hyoid bone Sterno-mastoid Lev. ang. scap., scaleni. Diaphragm Spinati, deltoid, biceps, bra- chialis anticus, sup. longus, pectoralis major (clavicular head), serratus magnus Pectoralis major (pectoral head), subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi Triceps, flexors of wrist, ex- tensors of wrist Flexors of digits, extensors of digits Intrinsic muscles of the hand Dilators of the pupil Inter-costales (D 1 to D 11), erector spinte (C 3 to S 3) Abdominal muscles (D 6 to LI) Gremaster Ilio-psoas, adductors of hip. Sartorius Radius jerk Triceps jerk Pupil dilatation to shade Epigastric Abdominal Gremasteric Knee-jerk C 1 G 2 C 3 G 4 G 5 G 6 C 7 G 8 D 1 D 2-3 D 5 D 6 D 9 L 1 L 2 L 3 Sensory Distribution. Back of occiput Anterior and posterior triangles of neck from ear to clavicle and scapula Epaulette ou shoulder, thorax from clavicle to three inches below Deltoid region and outer border of arm narrowing to point just above ball of thumb (radial border) Strip down front and back of arm (inside G 5), radial border of hand, thumb, index and radial half of middle finger Strip down front and back of arm, contiguous halves of middle and ring lingers Strip down front and back of arm, inner half of ring finger, little finger, ulnar border of hand Post-axial border of forearm from three inches above elbow to pisi- form bone Post-axial border of forearm above D 1 Level of nipple Level of xiphisternal junction Level of umbilicus Level of Poupart's ligament Upper and outer side of thigh and over Scarpa's triangle All thigh except narrow vertical strip on post surface (S 2). Geas- ing about an inch above knee