429 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL it is possible that a case of gonorrhoea! peri- tonitis, where the infection has travelled up the Fallopian tubes, might recover without operative interference. Such cases, however, are very rare, and it would be impossible to recognise them before opening the abdomen. Even in cases too much collapsed for surgical inter- ference the treatment must be directed to the alleviation of all distressing symptoms. The method of ti-eatment which has gained considerable ground on the Continent, especially in France, is the subcutaneous and intravenous injection of saline solution. The principle is to introduce into the vascular system, directly by the veins or indirectly by the subcutaneous lymphatics, a saline solution with a view to washing out the lymphatic vessels and blood- vessels, and so enabling the liver and kidneys to get rid of the toxines. This method, com- bined with operative interference, is undoubtedly an excellent combination, and seems perfectly rational. Indeed, many of my patients have the "infusion" of several pints of saline fluid if at all collapsed after the operation. Some French surgeons, however, look upon the treat- ment as sufficient in itself—e.g. Michaux says: " Qu'on ne sauvera pas tous les malades, mais qu'on aura certainement la joie d'arracher a la niort quelques-uns de ceux dont I'etat semblait le plus desespere." The solution generally used is sodium chloride 5 grams, sodium sulphate 10 grams, distilled water 1 litre. This is injected at the temperature of the body either into the subcutaneous tissue, or through the median basilic vein (see "Saline Solution, Infusion of"). According to French surgeons, remarkable im- provement and cures have been attained. Peritonitis, Acute Localised.—Acute inflam- mation of a portion of the peritoneum, due to some lesion of the organ it is covering, is a very common occurrence. It may occur in the peritoneum covering the liver, and spread thence to the peritoneum covering the lower surface of the diaphragm. It not unfrequently occurs in the peritoneum covering the stomach in the neighbourhood of a gastric ulcer. Of all the abdominal organs, the vermiform appendix is the one most commonly affected. In women there is frequently local peritonitis round the uterus and Fallopian tubes, usually termed pelvic peritonitis. The chief varieties we will consider at greater length. 1. Snhphrenic Abscess. — Inflammatory con- ditions may spread from the pleural cavities through the diaphragm to the abdomen. As a rule, however, sub-phrenic peritonitis spreads from the abdominal organs, chiefly the liver and stomach, often developing into an abscess. When the inflammation spreads from the liver, and suppuration occurs, the abscess forms be- tween the right half of the diaphragm and the upper surface of the liver, and is very often diagnosed as an empyema. On the other hand, the subphrenic abscess caused by lesions of the stomach forms on the left side. Perforations of certain parts of the stomach or the duodenum may cause effusion into the lesser sac of the peritoneum, and, according to Jordan Lloyd, pathological distension of the lesser peritoneal sac gives rise to a tumour in the left hypo- chondriac, epigastric, and umbilical regions of a somewhat characteristic shape, but which appears to vary from time to time in form and size according to the condition of the overlying stomach; for when the viscus is full of liquid contents it increases the area of the tumour's dulness, while it makes its outlines less defin- able to palpation, and if the stomach is dis- tended with gas the dull area becomes resonant, and apparently the tumour may disappear altogether. The colon always lies below the tumour, and never in front of or above it, as is the case in kidney enlargement. There is a curious form of subphrenic abscess which contains gas, and it may very closely simu- late pneumothorax. As a rule it is caused by the perforation of a gastric ulcer; less frequent causes are the perforation of a duodenal ulcer; of appendicitis; and of the perforation of ab- scesses in connection with the kidney, liver, spleen, etc. Symptoms.—These naturally vary a good deal as the primary causes are so diverse. The onset is, as a rule, abrupt, especially when due to a per- foration of a gastric ulcer. Besides the severe pain and vomiting, respiration is markedly em- barrassed, probably owing to the involvement of the diaphragm. In addition to these symptoms there are the ordinary ones associated with sup- puration in a confined space in the abdomen. Later on abscesses may spread through the diaphragm into the pleura or lung, and the pus may be coughed up by the patient. Diagnosis.—This seems to be very difficult if we may judge from the mistakes that are con- stantly made by physicians in asking surgeons to open a collection of pus in the region of the diaphragm. When the abscess is between the liver and the diaphragm it is nearly always mistaken for an empyema. When the abscess cavity contains gas, and is situated on the right side, the diaphragm may be pushed up to the level of the second or third rib, and we may get the physical signs of pneumothorax, the liver being usually greatly depressed. When the gas-containing abscess is in the lesser sac of the peritoneum it tends to give the signs of pneumothorax on the left side. Treatment.—As soon as pus is suspected in the region of the diaphragm an exploring needle should be used. If the result is positive, some indication is obtained as to the situation of the pus and its depth from the surface. If the needle gives a negative result, the surgeon must proceed to make a careful dissection down to the diaphragm in the region of its attach-