PARALYSIS 318 the mouth and lower jaw ; the head may shake, as do the arms on voluntary movement—but the unsteadiness is not quite the same as the intention tremor of disseminated sclerosis. The limbs are weak, and all movements are per- formed slowly. The lower extremities are stiii" paradoxical contractions may occur, and the tendon-jerks are increased. There is very little, if any, blunting of cutaneous sensibility, and the sphincters are intact. The course of the disease is protracted, so that it may last as long as ten years; but during this period there are remissions and relapses from time to time. Moreover, apoj)lectiform attacks with transient symptoms of hemiplegia may occur. Paralysis Agitans.—Definition.—A disease characterised by tremor, associated with rigidity and muscular weakness. Etiology.—The malady occurs in the second half of life—it is rare before forty, and does not frequently occur after sixty ; the decade in which it most often makes its appearance is the fifth, but cases have been described in the second and even the first decade of life. The male sex is more prone to the affection than the female. Violent emotion would seem not infrequently to be an exciting cause of the disease—numerous cases are recorded as definitely following fright or some profound mental disturbance; while excitement and cold seem also to be antecedents. Many cases are attributed to injury, and the tremor may begin in the limb injured, and gradually spread to the other extremities. Some authors consider that heredity plays an important part in the disease, but the evidence on this is not very strong; this is, however, a point on which it is necessarily difficult to obtain evidence, as the patients already in advanced age themselves know or remember little with regard to their parents or grandparents ; never- theless, cases have been recorded in which members of the same family have been aff'ected. The disease may follow on acute specific fevers; typhoid, dysentery, influenza, and malaria have all been blamed, but it is worthy of note that paralysis agitans is more common in England than in malarious countries. Syphilis plays no part in the etiology of this disease. The occurrence of a tremor indistinguishable from that of paralysis agitans sometimes follows on an ordinary hemiplegia, and this tremor, like that of paralysis agitans, tends rather to cease than to increase on the attempt to perform any movement, and the general appearance of these patients is often singularly like that of patients suffering from paralysis agitans. Onset and Course.—The onset of the paralysis is as a rule gradual, sometimes pi-eceded for a considerable period by pains in the limbs and joints, and cramp in the feet and legs, or in others by a sense of extreme fatigue. In certain cases, however, the onset has been sudden and has followed on some fright or injury. When the onset is sudden it may at first only affect one limb, and may for a long time remain limited to that limb. Almost all observers are agreed that the disease usually commences in the hands, and that as it advances it affects first the leg on the same side, then passes to the arm on the opposite side, and finally to the leg of that side. There are, of course, many exceptions to this rule, and cases have been recorded in which the arm of one side and the leg of the opposite side were first aifected. The head is sometimes in- volved, and even the masseters, the tongue, and, still more rarely, some muscles of the face may be affected by tremor. Syinptoms. — The Attitude. — The attitude assumed by the patient is one of the most characteristic features of the disease. He stands with the back bent, the head forward, and the chin down ; the legs are flexed at the knees and hips, and the thighs are adducted and rotated inwards, so that when he walks the knees knock together; the arms are flexed at the elbow and slightly abducted from the side, the hands are flexed on the wrists and hang down over the upper portion of the thighs. The fingers are flexed at the metacarpo-phalan- geal joints, and the phalanges are extended, the thumb being opposed to the first or second finger. The impression which is produced by the attitude is that of a person who is about to start forward and yet uncertain when to start. The muscles of the face are rigid and have been described as giving the appearance of quiet majesty and dignity, but the fixed expression gives as a rule rather an appearance of stupidity. The patient is sheltered from all emotions, his smile is hardly visible, and owing to the lower portion of the face being as a rule more fixed than the upper, the forehead and eyes alone play any part in the expression of emotion. Although the attitude above described is that which is most common, yet there are cases in which the limbs are held in extension, and the head is retracted instead of being bent forward. Whatever attitude is assumed, it would seem to be due to a special state of rigidity of the muscles; this at first appears as cramp, followed by stiffness, which is transitory, later the condition becomes more constant and exaggerated at times into true paroxysms, and, finally, the stiffness becomes more and more permanent, and the position of the patient resulting therefrom is that above described. The most frequent position of the hand is that which has been already described, and has been compared to that assumed by a patient about to write, the fingers being extended and the thumb approximated to the first finger. The fingers are as a whole, however, flexed towards the palm of the hand and deflected to