NIPPLE-LINE 65 Nipple-Line.—An imaginary line drawn from above downwards on the chest-wall, pass- ing through the nipple; it is used as a means of locating the apex beat, etc. Nipples. See Mammary Gland, Diseases OP {Affections of the Nipple and Areola) ; Puer- PERiuM, Pathology of (Affections of Breasts and Nipples). Nirvanine.—A local anaesthetic used in the same way as cocaine; it is chemically the hydrochloride of the methyl ester of diethyl- glycocoll paramido-ortho-oxybenzoic acid. Nissl's Bodies or Granules.— Granules formed of a material lying in the meshes of the protoplasm of a nerve-cell, which stain deeply with basic stains. See Physiology, Tissues (Nerve, Structure). Nissl's Degeneration.—The change which occurs in a nerve-cell when the axon is cut, consisting in displacement of the nucleus and decrease in the chromatin which it contains. See Physiology, Tissues (Nerve, Physiology, Function of the Cell). NiSUS.—An effort or impulse (Lat. niti, to strive), such as the impulse towards reproduc- tion or development (nisus germinativus). Nithsdaie Neck. See Thyroid, Gland, Medical (Goitre); Thyroid Gland, Surgery of (Goitre). Nitrates. See Water (Chemical Exami- nation). Nitric Acid. See also ffisoPHAGUS (In- flammation. Traumatic); Toxicology (Corrosives, Nitric Acid). — HNO3. A colourless fuming liquid with powerful caustic properties. Pre- parations—1. Acidum Nitricum Dilutum. Dose —-5 - 20 m. 2. Acidum Nitrohydrochloricum Dilutum ; Nitromuriatic Acid. Bose—5-20 m. Externally, strong nitric acid is used as a caustic for warts, condylomata, chancres, and chancroids. The surrounding tissues should be protected by means of an ointment. It has been recommended that hsemorrhoids should be touched with it so as to cause cicatrisation and diminution in size. In dilute solution it has been used as an astringent and stimulant application to indolent ulcers. Internally, dilute nitric acid should be administered through a glass tube, as it destroys the teeth. It is em- ployed, usually in the form of nitromuriatic acid, as a gastric tonic and biliary stimulant. It should be given before food in cases of in- creased secretion of hydrochloric acid, and after food when the secretion is deficient. It is frequently efficient in the green diarrhoea of children. Nitrification.—The conversion of the nitrogen of ammonia and of organic compounds VOL. VII into nitrous and nitric acids, as happens in fermentation (see Micro-Organisms, Bacteria, Saprophytic), and in the soil in bacteriolysis (Sewage and Drainage, Sewage Disposal). Nitrite of Amyl. See Nitrites; Angina Pectoris (Treatment); Convulsions, Infantile (Treatment, In the Attack). Nitrites. See also Angina Pectoris (Treatment); Antispasmodics ; Asthma (Treat- ment) ; Trades, Dangerous (Explosives).—The nitrite group of drugs includes Amyl Nitrite, Nitroglycerin, Sodium Nitrite, Potassium Nitrite, Erythrol Tetranitrate, Ethyl Nitrite, and Spiritus jEtheris Nitrosi. These substances all possess the actions characteristic of the nitrites, but they differ considerably in the strength, rapidity, and duration of their effects. They produce marked dilatation of the peripheral blood-vessels and lowering of the blood tension with increased rapidity of the heart's action, and have a depres- sant effect on the motor side of the spinal cord. Their use is indicated wherever a lowering of the blood tension is required, the particular drug selected depending on whether a moderate or a powerful action is necessary, and whether the effect must be immediate and transient or of more gradual development and more per- sistent.—Amyl Nitrite is a very volatile liquid of a pale yellow colour, given in doses of 2-5 m. usually by inhalation from a handkerchief in which a glass capsule containing the drug has been crushed. It may also be dropped on sugar and given by the mouth. Its use is indicated in all forms of spasmodic cardiac pain whether due to true angina pectoris, to thoracic aneurysm, or to an unknown cause. The relief afforded is generally attributed to the lowering of peri- pheral blood tension; but there is considerable doubt as to whether its action is really of this nature, for it may completely fail in cases in which there is a high arterial tension, and may have a prompt beneficial effect when no con- traction of the vessels exists. It is recommended in various forms of syncope, including that which occurs during chloroform aneesthesia. It has been recommended in eclampsia and in status epilepticus, and is said to prevent the onset of an epileptic seizure if inhaled as soon as the aura is felt. It has also been used with success in migraine, asthma, laryngismus stridulus, tetanus, and strychnine poisoning. In some forms of dysmenorrhoea and in the hot flushes associated with the menopause, it has been found to be of great service. It has recently been widely employed with striking results in the treatment of htemoptysis, whether due to pulmonary or cardiac disease.—Nitroglycerin is a colourless, oily liquid of a highly explosive nature. It is given in doses of o-g^cr'To S'"-' freely diluted. Preparations — 1. Liquor Tri- nitrini. Dose—1-2 m. 2. Tabellje Trinitrini, each 5