PARASITES 337 Nematodes {continued)— Trichocephahis trichiurus ■ . . 355 Trichina spiralis .... 355 Eustrongylus visceralis . . . 357 Strongylus subtilis .... 357 Uncinaria duodenalis . . .357 Ascaris himbricoides. . . .359 Oxyuris vermicularis . . .360 ACANTHOCEPHAH— Echinorhynchus gigas . . .361 ,, hominis . . .361 Arthropods— Scarcoptes scabiei . . . .361 ,, minor .... 361 Demodex folliculorum . . .361 Linguatula caprina . . . .361 Porocephalus constrictus . . .362 Insects ...... 362 See also Anaemia {Causes, Parasites); Beriberi {Cause); Brain, Tumours of {Etiology, Para- sitic) ; Cough {Causes, Entozoa); F^CES {Abnor- malities, Foreign Bodies); Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Morbid Processes, Parasites of the Heart); Invalid-Feeding {General Prepara- tion of Food, Cooking); Liver, Diseases of {Liver Parasites); Lungs, Parasitic Affections of {Aspergillosis, etc.); Malaria ; Mel^na {Dia- gnosis) ; Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Parasitic Diseases) ; Nails, Affections of the {Parasitic Diseases); Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Due to Animal and Vegetable Para- sites) ; Skin, Parasites ; Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases {Morbid Anatomy, Infective Gastritis); Stomatitis {Parasitic). Although parasites belong both to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, only the animal para- sites are considered in the following article. Parasitic animals are those which, in order to obtain their nourishment, live within, or upon another living organism, termed their host. True parasites nourish themselves on the living material (blood, lymph, etc.) of their host; saprophytic parasites obtain their nourish- ment from lifeless material, such as that within the alimentary canal, or that on the outer surface of the host. Many parasites are patho- genetic ; but though some of the saprophytic parasites do not harm their host, it is doubtful whether any animal parasites are "symbiotic," or, in other words, whether any are beneficial to their host. Some parasites, Trichina sph-alis and Fasciola hepatica, for example, are found in different species of animals, whilst other parasites are limited to a single species. Thus the adult TcBnia solium, Strongyloides intestinalis, and Oxyuris vermicularis are parasitic only in man, and Taenia serrata is found solely in the dog. The present article deals only with the parasites of man, exception being made, however, of a few species parasitic in the lower animals, which VOL. VII are referred to on account of their close relation- ship to species parasitic in the human subject, or because a knowledge of such parasites is of importance in a study of the parasites of man. The anatomical situation of a parasite is known as its habitat, animal parasites being designated Ectozoa or Entozoa according as they live upon or within their host. Each parasitic species has what may be termed a normal habitat. That of the adult Cestodes, for example, is the intestinal canal, that of Sarcoptes scabiei is the skin, that of Echinococcus polymorphus certain internal organs. In some instances, however, parasites are found in ab- normal situations; Ascarides, for example, may be found in the respiratory passages. The parasitism of some animals is transitory, that of others is permanent. The mode of reproduction within the body ^ of the host is very varied. Some parasites, for instance the protozoa, produce successive generations witliin the host; others, for instance the worms, when within the host merely attain sexual maturity, and give origin to a second generation, which does not forthwith become sexually mature in the same host. In some instances this second generation becomes mature, however, after re-entering the same host, or after gaining entrance to another host of the same species. In other instances two specifi- cally different hosts are necessary for completion of the life cycle of the parasite, which is im- mature in the one and sexually mature in the other host. In the latter instance, then, a change or alternation of host is requisite for the developmental cycle of the parasite, and the animal harbouring the sexually mature parasite is the definitive host, that harbouring the immature parasite is the intermediate host. There are various modes in which man is infected. The ingestion of eggs or immature forms of parasites together with water or vegetables is one of the most common. By the ingestion of eggs man is infected with Cysticercus cellulosce, Echinococcus polymorphus, Asca7-is lumbricoides, Oxyuris vermicularis, etc.; by the ingestion of immature species he is infected with Uncinaria duodenalis, Strongyloides intestinalis, and Trematodes. Again, infection may be brought about by ingestion of the immature parasites in an intermediate host. It is thus that man is infected with the adult Cestodes and with Trichina sjnralis. And, lastly, parasites may be transmitted by the direct agency of the second host, as is the case with Filariidaj and Hsemosporidia. Animal parasites cause disease in a variety of ways, of which the most important are:— 1. By mechanical injury; for instance, when an Echinococcus growing within the liver exerts pressure on neighbouring structures, or when Ascarides wander into the bile-ducts, or when Trichinae, Ascarides, or other worms penetrate 22