477 PHLEGMONOUS a phlegmon. See Nose, Acute Inflammation {Acute Suppurative Rhinitis) ; Pharynx, Acute IpHARYNGiTis {Acute Septic Inflammation). PhlOg^OSiS. — Inflammation. The term Phlogosin is applied to the product of certain cultures of bacteria {e.g. pyogenic staphylococci) which causes suppuration when injected under the skin. Phloridzin.—A bitter substance orgluco- side (CgiHq^Ojg), obtained from the bark of the root of the apple, pear, plum, and cherry tree ; diabetes in animals can be produced by the administration of phloridzin {phloridzin-dia- betes). See Glycosuria {Glycosuria produced by Drugs); Liver, Diseases of {Fatty Liver, Causes, Poisons); Physiology, Digestion {Fate of the Food Absorbed, Liver and Glycogen). Phloro- or Phlor-. — In compound words phloro- means relating to phloridzin; e.g. phloretin (a sweet substance (Cj^Hj^Oj), produced by the action of dilute acids on phlor- idzin) ; phloroglucin (a very sweet substance obtained from phloretin, having the formula of CgHgOj); and phloramine (CgH^OgNHj), from the action of ammonia upon phloroglucin. Phlyctena.,—A vesicle or blister; a small vesicle is termed a phlyctonula ; the term phlyctenular is given to such diseases as are characterised by the presence of small blisters or vesicles, e.g. phlyctenular conjunctivitis, phlyctenular impetigo, etc. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Phlyctenular Conjunctivitis); Cornea {Phlyctenular Ulcer); Impetigo (Vesi- cular Impetigo). Phobia,.—An obsession of fear, used fre- quently as a suffix in such words as agwaphobia, claustrophobia, hydrophobia, pathophobia, etc. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Phobia). PhOCas' Disease. — Chronic fibrous inflammation of the breast. PilOCOmeiUS.—A teratological type in which the limbs consist of little more than the hands and feet springing almost immediately from the trunk, like the flappers of a seal (Gr. (j}u)K7j, a seal). PllOnation. — The production of vocal sound. See Hysteria {Disorders of Respiratory Organs). PhonautOgraph.—An apparatus which automatically records the vibrations of sound caused by the voice, etc. PhonendOSCOpe.—A variety of stetho- scope by which sounds within the body are made more easily audible. Phonic Spasm. See Larynx, Neuroses OF {Phonatory Glottic Spasm). Phono-.—In compound words ^j/iowo- (Gr. <^WJ7, voice) means relating to the voice or to sound, e.g. phonograph, phonology, phonoscopje, etc. Phonophobia.—Morbid fear of sound or of hearing the voice. See Hysteria {Disorders of the Respiratory Organs). Phosgene or Phosgene Gas.— A gas (COCI2) produced by exposing chlorine and carbonic oxide to the influence of the sun's rays ; carbon oxychloride or carbonyl chloride. Phosphates. A^eePhosphorus; Ferrum; etc. See a^so Expectoration {Crystals of Triple Phosphates; Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Urine); Stools, Intestinal Sand; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). PhOSphatiC.—Consisting of or relating to phosphates, e.g. ^jAospAa^ic calculi. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Calculus Vesicce); Urinb, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). PhOSphaturia. — The presence of phosphates in excess in the urine. See Brain, Tumours of {Symptoins, Urine); Gout {Irregular, Renal System); Lung, Tuberculosis op (Co«i- plications, Uro-genital); Ovaries, Diseases of {Effect of Ovarian Gland Substance); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {General Sympto- matology, Urinary Symptoms); Stomach, Dis- eases of {Acute Gastyitis; Symptoms, Urinary); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). PhOSphenes.—Sensations of light pro- duced by pressure on the eyeball behind the ora serrata. See Eye, Clinical Examination OF {Subjective Sensations of Light); Choroid, Diseases of {Plastic Choroiditis, Sympto7ns). Phosphides. — Compounds of phos- phorus with another element or with a radicle acting as a base, e.g. trihydrogen phosphide or phosphuretted hydrogen (PH3), zinc phosphide (ZugPo); phosphurets. PhOSphineS.—Bases resembling amines but containing phosphorus in place of nitrogen, e.g. monoethyl phosphine (CgH^PHg). Phosphites.—Salts of phosphorous acid. PhOSphO-.—In compound words joAospAo- means related to phosphorus; e.g. phospho- proteins such as vitellin (the protein of white of egg), phospho-carnic acid (a phosphorous com- pound of milk), phospho-glyeerie acid (a body obtained from lecithin), etc. PhOSphonium.—A compound of hydrogen with phosphorus (PH^), resembling ammonium (NH^), and forming compounds, e.g. phosphonium iodide (PH^I), etc.