NEW-BORN INFANT 57 of feeding the infant artificially fail, and gastro- enteritis threaten life, the last resort will be wet-nursing. It ought to be added that the mixed method of feeding the new-born will often give better results than the artificial alone does. That is to say, when the mother is able to nurse partially, even if it be only three or four feed- ings in the twenty-four hours, the infant will have a better chance of thriving than if brought up entirely by hand. When the infant is about five days old the stump of the umbilical cord usually drops off; a granulating surface is left, which skins over and is retracted. The separation of the stump is due to mummification of the tissues and necrosis at the base. An infant should be batlied once a day in front of a warm fire, the water having a temperature of 92°, as deter- mined by a bath thermometer. Premature or weakly infants need only be sponged in the nurse's lap. In summer the infant may be taken into the open air when a fortnight old, being carried on the nurse's arm, and kept in the sun. He should sleep in a crib, and not in the bed with either the mother or the nurse. Pathology of the New-horn Infant. — Several of the diseases which affect the new-born have characters so distinctive that it has beeia con- cluded that they are different in nature and cause from the maladies of the adult; at any rate it has been thought that there is sufficient difference to justify the addition of the word " neonatorum " to the name of the affection, e.g. a;dema neonatorum, melsena neonatorum, etc. It is probable, however, that the causes of diseases are the same in the neonatal as in the other periods of life, and that the differences in their manifestations are due to the peculiarities of the anatomy and physiology of the epoch. The various readjustments of functions which are going on immediately after birth must modify pathological processes, and the impress of the traumatism of birth cannot but contribute to the formation of a special pathology of the new-born. It has also to be remembered that before birth morbid causes may have been in action, and that some of the peculiarities of neonatal diseases may be due to ante-natally developed conditions. Asphyxia neonatorum, apnoea neonatorum, still-birth, or apparent death of the new-born, is a condition of the infant at birth in which there is a stoppage of the functions of animal life, with absence of respiration, and absence, or rather weakness, of cardiac action. A still-born child is not necessarily a dead child, but the condition may pass into death. Two clinical varieties have been commonly recognised—the pale and the livid, or the anaemic and the con- gestive. In their pathology there is no great difference save in the condition of the cutaneous vessels, which in the former are empty and in the latter engorged with blood. Clinically there are other differences: in the pale form the mouth is open (the lower jaw having fallen), the mucous membranes are pale, the skin is cold, the eyes closed, the anus is relaxed (as are the limbs and the muscles everywhere), and the heart- beats are very feeble or inaudible ; in the con- gestive type the lips are swollen, the eyes are injected and protruding, the mucous membranes are congested, the skin is hot, the limbs are somewhat rigid, the umbilical cord is swollen, the reflexes are preserved, and the pulse is stronger than in the former variety. Asphyxia neonatorum may be due to a great number of causes : it may be due to prematurity and con- genital weakness of the infant, to interference with the intra-uterine circulation in the placenta (from separation or disease) or umbilical cord (knots, twists), to compression or other trau- matism during delivery, or to temporary pres- sure upon the cord leading to attempts at respiration while still in the mother's canals, and the consequent inspiration of mucus, meco- nium, etc., into the air-passages. It may also be produced by certain fostal diseases, such as ascites, which prevent the action of the dia- phragm. The prognosis is better in the livid than in the pale form. The treatment consists, in the first place, in an attempt to excite respira- tion by such ordinary means as the removal of mucus from the back of the mouth and nose, the slapping of the skin of the gluteal regions, and the placing of the infant in hot and cold water alternately. If these measures fail, it has been advised to allow some bleeding to take place from the cut end of the umbilical cord in asphyxia livida, and to aspirate some blood from the placenta to the infant by drawing the cord through the fingers in the direction of the umbilicus before ligaturing it in asphyxia pallida. If the apnoea still continue it will be necessary to have recourse to one or other of the methods of artificial respiration. Of these, the most generally employed at the present time is that of swinging the infant recommended by Schultze: the child is grasped by the operator with both hands, the thumbs resting against the thorax, an index finger in each axilla, the other fingers across the back, and the occiput supported by the balls of the thumbs; it is then suspended vertically feet downwards, with the face looking forwards, in which position the chest is opened, it is then swung upwards towards one of the operator's shoulders, when it is found that the infant's head is the lowest point, and that its body has fallen forwards towards the face, thus compressing the thorax and closing the chest. This procedure is repeated some thirty times a minute in order to imitate infantile respiration, and it very often succeeds in causing air to pass freely into and out of the lungs. It has been objected that in the performance of the swinging