78 NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM inferior and middle meatus, is invariably smooth and globular on the surface, while it pits to a curious degree on manipulation with a probe. The application of cocaine causes rapid shrink- ing of the tumefaction, while it has little or no effect upon the hypertrophic condition. The two, however, are frequently associated, and both may present all degrees of colour from bluish-white, under conditions of local or general anaemia, to a dark mulberry colour, seen especially in those posterior hypertrophies which project into the postnasal space. The symptoms are, of course, identical with those produced by any form of obstruction, although it appears to me, from my own experience, that these hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals are more clearly productive of asthma than other forms. And this I maintain, although polypus is more often associated with asthma; for both the latter being expressions of a common inflam- matory action involving the whole respiratory tract, do not appear to stand to one another in the same relation of cause and effect. The dis- tinction is a purely clinical one and of importance in prognosis, although the statement is difficult to siibstantiate on theoretical grounds. As far as local symptoms are concerned these hyper- trophies are always associated with much catarrh, and a greater degree of difficulty in extruding the secretion than is accounted for by the actual amount of obstruction to breathing. Mucus is often seen lying imprisoned in the inferior meatus in ropy, tenacious masses, which the patient is unable to remove by any amount ■oi blowing. The hypertrophied masses may attain such a size as not only to fill inferior and middle meatus, but also to encroach very con- siderably upon the postnasal space. Indeed, when adenoids are present also, as sometimes happens, the postnasal space may be completely filled. The diagnosis between these hypertrophies and mere vascular engorgements I have already related, while they may be as easily distinguished from polypus by the translucency, mobility, and uniformity of the latter. The treatment con- sists in the removal of the redundant tissue by means of the cold or incandescent snare. My preference is for the former, as it excites less inflammation in the surrounding parts, while, if so constructed as to constrict the growth very slowly, there need be no more bleeding than in the use of the incandescent snare. Minute hypertrophies may be suitably destroyed with the cautery-point, though such treatment is too slow for the larger masses. The operation of turbinectomy need only be mentioned to be con- demned ; for it artificially produces an atrophic rhinitis with many of its attendant miseries, more especially dryness of the pharynx and larynx. But it is an operation more easily accomplished, and requiring less time than the •careful trimming of an hypertrophied inferior turbinal to its normal limits, and so is much patronised in some quarters. ^ For the posterior hypertrophies the snare is the only instrument; but in the anterior, scissors and forceps may often be used with advantage. Finally, it may be mentioned that there is little or no tendency to a recurrence of these growths after complete removal. (2) The benign tumours affecting the eth- moidal region, while all definitely inflammatory, are more complex in their etiological appear- ance and habits than those just described. Thus we have simple mucous polypi, cystic mucous polypi, polypi associated with caries and suppuration in the accessory cavities, as well as osseous cysts and bony hypertrophies of the middle turbinals. Upon the pathological relations of these diff"erent inflammatory growths it is hardly necessary in this place to enter; suffice it to repeat that, although the older pathologists describe these growths as myxo- mata, it is now the fashion, and probably cor- rectly so, to consider them as merely oedematous forms of all transitions between granuloma and fibroma. No true myxoma cells are ever met with. The growths are covered with ciliated epithelium, even when they are rather to be considered as oedematous granulations springing from a bed of ulceration. In the latter event the growths are always associated with sup- puration ; and when this is the case the prog- nosis should be guarded, seeing that the extent of the mischief, and the question whether any accessory cavities are involved, often cannot be determined until the growths themselves are removed. Otherwise the prognosis is altogether favourable, provided the surgeon has skill to effect, and the patient the perseverance to wait, through eradication. Indeed, mucous polypi do not recur in spite of what is commonly be- lieved, provided they are completely removed : and the possibility of effecting this depends upon the accessibility of the individual growths. For these growths are nearly always multiple, generally affecting both fossfe, while they involve chiefly the upper and lower surfaces of the middle turbinal. Cystic polypi are curiously diff"erent. They are solitary, seldom involve both fossEe, are situated far back in the middle meatus; and so little sign is left after their removal of their precise situation, that it is im- possible to effect satisfactory after-treatment as a guarantee against recurrence. Yet they often recur, rapidly attaining as before their removal enormous dimensions, so that, growing from one middle meatus alone, they may block both fosste as well as fill the postnasal space. They gener- ally contain a thin, yellowish, transparent mucus resembling that found in retention in the an- ' Vide author's presidential address in section of Laryngology, annual meeting of Brit. Med. Assoc., Montreal, 1898.