NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM 79 trum ; while their walls, microscopically resem- bling the structure of multiple polypi, vary con- siderably in thickness. Whether these cystic polypi are originally obstructed mucous glands, or whether they are diverticula resulting from occlusion of some accessory sinus, which I strongly suspect to be the case, judging from the certainty and rapidity of recurrence, has not at present been determined. Osseous cysts are not common, though they may attain such dimensions, distending the nasal bones, deviating the septum so as to block the opposite fossa, as may cause complete ob- struction of nasal respiration. Their causation is obscure: some cases, I believe, being due to distension of the walls of the infundibulum from retention, and some to occlusion of the space formed by the incurving of the middle turbinal's free border.^ At any rate they are lined with epithelium, and generally contain masses of atheromatous material. In one case I found the interior studded with small polypi. Such growths, of course, do not recur after removal, and the prognosis is always good, seeing that the tumours are readily amenable to surgical attack. Osseous hypertrophies of the middle turbinals are sometimes of sufficient importance, from the pressure they produce upon contiguous parts, to necessitate removal. They are the results of simple osteophytic periostitis, and may or may not be associated with polypus. Hence also the prognosis, of course, is eminently satisfactory. Such benign tumours, involving various re- gions of the ethmoid, may be encountered in patients of either sex or any age, though for the most part they are commoner in men and ex- tremely rare in childhood. They are, as already remarked, the result of a catarrhal process, and hence are more frequent in those climates and latitudes which favour the catarrhal process. There is a well-marked hereditary proclivity, as there is to hay fever and asthma. The symptoms caused by them are those simply of nasal ob- struction, though we often have in addition symptoms arising from retention in the accessory cavities or from pressure on the nasal duct; consequently the eyes are often watery and sympathetically inflamed, while, probably from pressure on the lymphatic circulation, the patient's mental-faculties are retarded in activity. Indeed, very curious mental conditions may be entirely removed by the cure of polypus, and I have known agoraphobia immediately cured and the faculties of memory and sleep greatly im- proved by such operations. Asthma, chronic bronchitis, and chronic laryngitis are frequent concomitants of nasal polypus, although, as I have said before, and judging from clinical ex- perience, I believe that asthma must be con- ' A Treatise on Nasal Suppuration. By Dr. Ludwig Griinwald (translated by W. Lamb. M.D.), 1900 p. 237. sidered an accompaniment rather than a con- sequence of polypi. Treatment.—The only treatment worth con- sidering is operative, and although many local astringent remedies have been recommended, yet all, from powdered alum or tannin to ab- solute alcohol, have proved futile. The forceps were \ised entirely before the days of cocaine, and have still their value in removing large quantities when the patient is under a general aniBsthetic; but for operating with cocaine, and where it is preferable to effect a clearance with a succession of operations instead of at a single sitting, one or other form of snare is to be pre- ferred. An idea is prevalent in some quarters that the incandescent snare renders recurrence less likely, though there is probably no justifica- tion for such a surmise; and the same objection applies to it as in the use of the cautery-point for destroying these growths, namely, that steam is generated by its use and the surrounding structures inevitably scalded. Indeed, the cautery-point is only admissible when we can see precisely the limits of the growth to be destroyed, and can bury its point in the polypus, so that the latter itself will protect the adjacent parts. An extremely useful instrument for effecting the removal of very small growths which are quite accessible is the forceps of Hey- mann, while the curette and sharp spoon have their uses in removing small growths and granu- lations from the roof or outer wall of the middle meatus. Recently ablation of the middle tur- binal has been strongly advocated as a help to the eradication of a polypus-producing mucous membrane ; and in certain cases, more especially where the growths arise in the superior meatus or from the upper surface of the middle turbinals, it is justified. Nevertheless, it is becoming com- moner than is justifiable when one remem- bers that it is not altogether devoid of risks. Meningitis has more than once followed the operation, and the cribriform plate has actually been fractured in the attempt. Moreover, it is seldom necessary to remove the whole structure, and its free margin can be safely cut off with scissors in one piece, or piecemeal with the punch forceps of Griinwald or Symonds. Important in the eradication of polypus is the removal of any adventitious source of ob- struction. Septal spurs and irregularities may render access to the growths difficult or im- possible, while hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals or of the erectile tissue of the septum must sometimes be removed or reduced before we can hope to minimise the tendency to cold- taking, which is the chief factor in recurrence. Although in this place it is not intended to consider constitutional causes which may pre- dispose to a cold-taking, I cannot let the oppor- tunity pass of insisting upon the fact that over- clothing, imperfect ventilation of the living and sleeping rooms, are the two conditions oftenest