361 PARASITES are not situated solely in the rectum, hence it is evident that treatment per rectum alone will seldom, if ever, bring about the expulsion of all. On seven to ten consecutive days, after the bowels have moved, a rectal injection of a strong solution of common salt or infusion of quassia is administered, whilst the hips are elevated. The patient should be directed to retain the injection as long as possible. Castor oil, jalap, calomel, or, in an intractable case, santonin, are to be given every second or third day for a week or ten days. Any antiseptic ointment is useful in lessening the pruritus, and, as in infection with ascarides, an appro- priate diet should be given. Notwithstanding energetic treatment it is often months before the patient is rid of all the worms. AcANTHOCEPHALi.—The Echinorhynchi are cylindrical unsegmented worms, without an alimentary canal, but having a protractile pro- boscis anteriorly armed with hooks. The adults inhabit the alimentary canal of vertebrates, the larvae being encysted in the visceral cavity of Crustacea or insects. There are about two hundred different species of these worms, para- sitic in various vertebrate hosts, but Echino- rhynchi are very exceptionally found in man. That they may develop in the human intestine, however, was shown by Calandruccio (1888), who swallowed larvse of E. moniliformis, and from whom fifty-three adult Echinorhynchi were expelled thirty-nine days later. Echinorhynchus gigas (Goeze, 1782).—In some parts of the world, though not in this country, it is a common parasite in the small intestine of the pig, and is frequently present in large numbers. The length of the male is 6-9 cm., that of the female 20-35 cm. In a few doubtful instances the worm has been recorded in man. Echinorhynchus hominis, found by Lambl in 1859 in the intestine of a boy in Prague. It was 5-6 mm. long. Arthropods The parasitic Arthropods are all included in two classes and in four orders :— I. Arachnoidea: {a) Acarina, {b) LingvMtulida. II. Insecta : (c) Rynchota, (d) Diptera. (a) Acarina (Mites).—The head, thorax, and abdomen are all fused in one. Anteriorly, there is a rostrum adapted for the purpose of biting, sucking, or adhesion; there are four pairs of articulated legs bearing at the distal end hairs, claws, or suckers. The sexes are separate. The young forms have three pairs of legs, i.e. are hexapod. Leptus autumnalis (Shaw, 1790). — It is a hexapod young form, not exceeding 0-5 mm. in length, of a reddish colour, is found on grasses and bushes in summer-time, and often attacks man and other animals, sucking blood and causing cutaneous inflammation. Pediculoides ventricosus (Newport, 1850) is 0-1-0-2 mm. in length, is usually parasitic in the larvse of insects, and has been known to transfer itself to the skin of persons handling grain. Argas reflexus, Dermanyssus avium, and other avian parasites, Ixodes ricinus of the dog, and other Acari, are occasional and accidental para- sites on the skin of man. Sarco23tes scabiei (Lixme, 1748); Syn. : Acarus scabiei (Linne, 1748).—The Sarcopts of different animals are merely varieties of one species. Sa7-coptes scabiei, var. hominis:—the body is slightly oval, and when observed from the dorsal aspect only the two anterior pairs of legs are visible. The male is 0-2-0'3 mm. long, and has suckers on the first, second, and fourth pairs of legs. The female is 0-3-0-4 mm. long, has suckers only on the first and second pairs of legs, and inhabits burrows in the epidermis, in which she lays her oval eggs. For further information, vide " Scabies." Sarcoptes minor (Furstenberg, 1861).—There are two varieties {S. min. cati and aS'. min. cuniculi). If accidentally transferred to man it causes a slight transient skin eruption. Parasites of the genera Psoroptes and Sym- biotes, which ai'e of great frequency and im- portance in the domestic mammals, are not transferable to man. Demodex folliculorum (Simon, 1842); Syn.: Acartis folliculorum (Simon, 1842); etc.—The body is elongated. The cephalo-thorax has four pairs of legs, the abdomen is conical and trans- versely striated. The length of the variety found in man is 0-3-0"4 mm. The animals live as saprophytes in the sebaceous glands, although they sometimes block the ducts and cause com- medones. The variety found in the dog is of smaller size, and is the cause of follicular mange. {b) LingvMtulida. — The body is elongated and vermiform; the head, thorax, and abdomen are fused together; the sexes are separate, and the adults inhabit the nasal cavities or lungs of mammals or reptiles. Linguatula caprina (Abildgaard, 1789); Syn. : Linguatula tcenioides (Rudolphi, 1810) ; etc.-— The male is about 2 cm. long, whitish in colour ; the female is 8-13 cm. in length, and yellowish. The adults live in the nasal cavities or frontal sinuses of various mammals, and occasionally of man, causing severe inflamma- tion. The eggs pass from the host with the nasal discharge, and if they are subsequently swallowed with water or vegetables by some other animal, the young form, or larva, escapes from the egg, becomes encysted in the liver, passing through a second larval stage, in which it is known as Pentastomum denticulatum, and is 4-6 mm. long. In this state it afterwards wanders from the liver either to the nasal cavities where it develops directly into the adult form, or wanders to the lungs or intestine, and is thence discharged from the intermediate host,