495 PHYSIOLOGY -TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Amitotic Division.—In seme cells the nucleus does not appear to take an active part, the cell dividing without the characteristic changes above discussed. Section III.—The Tissues From the protoplasm of the cells the various tissues of the body—bone, cartilage, muscle, etc.—are formed. The structure of these must be studied practically; all that will be attempted here is to indicate how they are formed from the primitive cell. The human body is originally a single cell, and from this, by division, a mass of simple cells is produced. In the embryo, these cells get arranged in three layers—an outer, a middle, and an inner — the epiblast^ mesoblast, and hypoblast. {A) The Vegetative Tissues The Vegetative Tissues are those which sup- port, bind together, protect, and nourish the body. They may be divided into the Epithelial Tissues, formed from the epiblast or hypoblast, and consisting of cells placed upon surfaces, and the Connective Tissues developed from the meso- blast, and consisting chiefly of formed material between cells. I. Epithelium 1. Squamous Epithelium. — (a) Simple Squamous Epithelium.—This is seen lining the air vesicles of the lungs. It consists of a single layer of flat, scale-like cells, each with a central nucleus. The outlines of these cells are made manifest by staining with nitrate of silver, which blackens the cement substance between the cells. {b) Stratified Squamo^is Epithelium (Fig. 4). —The skin and the lining membrane of the Fig. 4.—stratified squamous epithelium from the cornea. mouth and gullet are covered by several layers of cells. The deeper cells divide, and as the young ones get pushed upwards towards the surface, and away from the nourishing fluids of the body, their nutrition is interfered with, and the protoplasm undergoes a change into a body closely allied in composition to the proteins, keratin. This substance is a hard, horny ma- terial, which is well seen in the nails and hair, and in the horns and hoofs of certain animals. It first makes its appearance as a number of little masses or granules in the cells, and these run together to fill the cells which from pressure become flattened out into thin scales. Keratin forms an admirable protective cover- ing to the body, not only on account of its hard- ness and toughness, but because poisons cannot readily pass through it, and also because it is not easily acted on by chemicals. Like the proteins, it contains carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur; and the first four of these elements are in about the same proportion as in the proteins. But the sulphur is in greater proportion (3 to 5 per cent), and readily enters into combination with various substances. Hence, lead solutions colour keratin black by forming the black sulphide of lead, and are largely used as hair dyes. (c) Transitional Epithelium.—A slightly modi- fied stratified squamous epithelium lines the urinary passages. It is characterised by the more columnar or pear-like shape of the deeper layers of cells. 2. Columnar Epithelium (Fig. 5, a).—The inmost set of cells in the embryo lining the a Fig. 5.—a, Columnar epithelium from the small intestine ; 6, ciliated epithelium from the trachea. stomach and intestine, elongate at right angles to their plane of attachment, and become colum- nar in shape. The free border of the cells looks like a hem, an appearance which is due to a series of short rods placed side by side. Probably this is a special development of the reticulum of the protoplasm. The great func- tion of this form of epithelium is to take up the digested matter from the stomach and intestine, and to pass it on to the blood. Among these columnar cells a certain number of peculiarly modified cells—chalice cells—are always found. They are larger than the col- umnar cells, and somewhat pear-shaped, being attached by their small extremity. Their protoplasm is collected at their point of attach- ment, while the body of the cell is filled with mucin, a clear, transparent material.