NEUROSES, OCCUPATION 50 changes in the muscles, and that the weakness is rot always limited to the particular move- ment involved. Against this is to be set the undoubted fact that in early cases there is often no trace of wasting or of electrical change, and that the disability is purely limited to the particular movement, as in writer's cramp. Again, weakness of those muscles due to a neuritis or poliomyelitis does not cause any spasm on movement, and the spasm in writer's cramp is often far wider than the antagonists of the weak muscles. The weakness is certainly not primary; the electrical changes are late, and the wasting later still. Nor can the ex- planation be a reflex spasm set up by sensory stimuli, because there is no obvious sensory stimulus as an initial symptom, pain being sometimes absent for months after the spasm has become well marked. The pain is neuralgic in character, and is due to a morbid over-action of the sensory centres, the nerve tenderness being similarly neuralgic, and not due to any neuritis. The pain, when established, no doubt helps in the vicious circle of developing the spasm, just as the pain from a sprain or local periostitis may act as the exciting cause in the development of one of the occupation neuroses. The true pathology of these affections is no doubt to be referred to the central nervous system, that the disease is a neurosis, brought about by overwork of the co-ordinating centres in the brain whereby the movements are effected, the lines of resistance being so lowered that at last the movement becomes practically mechanical, and scarcely requires any thought. When this stage is reached, too constant and prolonged drafts on the liberation of nerve energy of these centres is apt to induce spasmodic overflow of the explosions of nerve force into neighbouring centres, whereby mus- cular spasm and tremor, with weakness of the particular movement, are the result. Later, the same process may spread to neighbouring sensory centres, producing pain referred to the affected part and areas of local tenderness. Impairment of function is, as Gowers says, likely to be accompanied by impairment of nutrition, and with disordered nutrition of the cortical cells some wasting is not unlikely, with diminution of electric irritability to both currents, as is frequently seen in many cases of hemiplegia. Such wasting is therefore second- ary, and is not to be looked on as the cause of the trouble. The fact that it is never in the learning stage, which is often long and painful as in writing, that writer's cramp is developed, is strongly in favour of the theory last put forward, and against that which would ascribe the trouble to a local muscular weakness, which would be more likely to be produced during the laborious stage of the acquirement of the art. The muscles are more easily fatigued then than afterwards, when by frequent use their nutrition is improved, and prolonged eff"orts are better borne. The fact that writer's cramp is apt soon to attack the left hand if persistently used when the right hand has been already similarly dis- abled is a convincing argument against the peripheral theory of the disease. The neurosis theory could scarcely be doubted in the case of the hammerman mentioned above, who, in addition to hammerman's cramp, had a typical functional right hemiplegia, the whole clearing up completely after persistent faradic treatment. Diagnosis.—This is generally obvious in the case of writer's cramp, and is less likely to be overlooked than to be suggested when there is commencing organic disease affecting the hand, as paralysis agitans or the gradual onset of hemiplegia. In two recent cases I have seen of syringomyelia, with muscular wasting and pain in the upper extremity, in each case writer's cramp was the first suggested explanation of the symptoms,—one of them a man engaged in the account department of a large newspaper office, and having many hours' writing to do daily. In his case the intrinsic hand muscles were wasting. The other case was a laundry- woman who wrote very little, and that with no great facility, hwt whose first symptoms were cramp in the right hand and pain when writing, ceasing on stopping writing. No atrophy of the hand muscles occurred in her case, the wasting being limited to the upper arm and trapezius, though the analgesia was present only on the hands and lower part of the forearms. Before making the diagnosis of writer's cramp, it is therefore necessary to carefully examine for any signs of organic disease, such as neuritis, slight hemiplegia, or spinal disease. Rheumatoid ar- thritis, chronic rheumatism, or gout might simi- larly cause disability in writing. As a general rule, if the weakness and spasm are limited to the act of writing, and to that alone, the dia- gnosis of writer's cramp is clear, though, it is true, exceptions to this rule may be occasionally met with, as in the case of the laundry-woman already referred to. Slight fatigue after writing is liable to be confounded with true writer's cramp, especially in nervous people who have seen or read of the disorder. The absence of true spasm in these cases will generally give the required clue. Other occupation neuroses are perhaps more liable to be overlooked, though in these cases also the occurrence of the symptoms only during some particular act, while the limb is practically free from weakness or spasm in all other move- ments, will decide the diagnosis. Prognosis.—If treatment is begun early, and rest from writing or from any other occupation that is at fault can be assured, recovery is most probable. The probability of recovery from writer's cramp is greater in those cases in which other causes but excessive writing have con-