PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 548 form synapses. From the cells, axons pass (a) to the oculo-motor mechanism of the same side and the opposite side, iV.vi., and (b) up to the cere- brum, C£., of the same and of the opposite side. Vestibular Boot (Fig. 81).—The fibres of this root take origin in dendrites between the cells of the maculse in the ampullae of the semi- circular canals and of the saccule, and have their nerve cells upon their course, Ves.E. cB. 0 \ \ • Y I 1 1 N.vi. j CtLtS IN Meo. ^ 1 1 I* ttLLS Of ANT. HORN Y 1 ' 1 1 / i ^ I 1 0€.M. Fig. 81.—Connections of semicircular canals with central nervous system. Ves.JR., Vestibular root of eighth nerve sending fibres upwards to CB. (cerebrum) and CBL. (cerebellum), downwards to the centre in medulla oblongata (Med.), and to Deiters' nucleus (N.Deit.), from which fibres pass to the oculo-motor mechanism (N. vi.) and to the centres in the anterior horn of the spinal cord. As they enter the medulla they divide into two, forming an ascending and a descending branch. (1) The ascending branch sends fibres on to the cerebrum, CB., and to the superior vermis of the cerebellum, CBL. These fibres give off collaterals to the nucleus of Deiters, N.Deit., from the cells of which fibres pass, which divide, some running on the same side, some on the opposite side; one branch passing up to the oculo-motor mechanism, N.\\.., the other pass- ing down the spinal cord to send collaterals to the cells in the grey matter, (2) The descend- ing branch forms connections with the medullary nuclei as it passes down. 6. The Auditory Centre and the Physiology of Hearing.—The qualities of sound which can be distinguished by the sense of hearing are loud- ness—amplitude of vibration ; pitch —rate of vibration; and quality—the character of the sound given by the over-tones. The perception of this last is essentially a perception of pitch. Loudness.—It is easy to understand how the peripheral neurons in the internal ear are more powerfully stimulated by the greater variations in the degree of pressure which are produced by more powerful aerial waves, and how the greater stimulation of the receptive centre in the brain will be accompanied by a sensation of greater loudness. Pitch. — A study of the structure of the cochlea seems to show a mechanism well suited to afford a means of estimating the pitch of a note and the existence of over-tones. The fibres of the basilar membrane may be compared to the strings of a piano, each one of which, or each set of which, will be made to vibrate by a particular note. The power of distinguishing differences of pitch varies in different individuals. It is more acute for notes of a moderate rate of vibration, from 46 to 4000, than for very slow or very fast vibrations. The range of perception of pitch also varies greatly, some people hearing notes as low as 20 vibrations per second, and others hearing them up to 40,000 per second. The position of the auditory centre in the cortex cerebri is discussed on p. 569. Illusions may occur in connection with the auditory sense. Thus, while normally the mechanism of the middle ear is set in action by sound vibrations, it may be brought into play by contact of gross matter with the drum. Pathological conditions of the internal ear may also stimulate the centre, while stimulation of cortex in the auditory region, either direct or through other neural arcs, as in dreaming, may produce auditory sensations. D. Proprio-cbptive Mechanism of the Head Labyrinthine Sense.—Just as the reflex re- sponse of the limbs to external stimuli leads to a stimulation of the proprio-ceptive mechanism in the muscles and joints which plays an im- portant part in guiding the subsequent move- ment {see p. 528), so the reflex response to visual stimuli in the muscles of the head and neck brings into play a delicate proprio-ceptive mechanism developed from the internal ear which has an important action in guiding the movements of the body as a whole, and very specially in guiding the co-ordinated movements of the eye muscles. This is the labyrinthine mechanism, consisting of the utricles and the semicircular canals. The structure of this mechanism has been described on p. 546.