NOSE—NASAL NEUROSES 99 scription ; the affection consists merely in an abnormal tendency to sneeze many times in suc- cession without adequate external cause. Some women of the neurotic temperament are subject to attacks of sneezing occurring in paroxysms of thirty to forty sneezes at a time, particularly on rising in the morning. I have had male patients who sneezed one hundred and fifty to two hundred times a day, or more. Such ex- cessive sneezing renders the patient incapable of ordinary mental or bodily exertion, their nervous energy being more or less exhausted in the sneezing attacks. The sneezing is usually accompanied by rhinorrhoea and lachrymation. Ordinary spasmodic asthmatic paroxysms are very frequently preceded or accompanied by paroxysmal sneezing ; in other cases attacks of paroxysmal sneezing alternate with asthma or may replace, for a time, the liability to asthma. Vasomotor i^^wtifo's.—Vascular engorgement of the nasal mucous membrane and of the erectile tissue of the turbinal bodies is liable to occur in young anaemic females, and also in dyspeptic or gouty subjects, and those addicted to alcoholic or sexual excesses. It may either take the form (a) of simple periodic vascular engorgement, or (b) of vascular engorgement with coryza and sneezing. The swelling of the nasal mucous membrane causes intermittent nasal stenosis, and in some cases an external redness and swelling of the nose. In the latter class the middle turbinated body will sometimes be found to press on the septum, and this doubtless accounts in some measure for the external swelling. Hydrorrhea (coryza vaso-motoriaperiodica)).— This affection, which is characterised by profuse watery discharge from the nose, must be dis- tinguished from the somewhat rare cases of cerebro-spinal rhinorrhoea, or the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid through the nasal passages. The precise etiology of the affection is not clear, but the patients are generally overworked, neurotic subjects. In idiopathic rhinorrhoea the flow of fluid from the nose is usually preceded or accompanied by sneezing and lachrymation, itching or prick- ing sensations in the nose ; in other cases the escape of watery fluid is the only symptom. It generally ceases during sleep. Very large quantities of fluid have been known to run from the nasal passages, and in some cases the fluid has dripped freely, satu- rating several handkerchiefs during each attack. Indeed, as much as two or three quarts may escape in the twenty-four hours. After the flow has persisted for several hours the mucous membrane will be found swollen and oede- matous. The fluid is straw-coloured, and consists of water with traces of sodium chloride and mucus. Unlike cerebro-spinal fluid it does not reduce Fehling's solution. Coryza (Edenmtosa. — Closely allied to idio- pathic rhinorrhoea is an affection which consists in a serous infiltration of the inferior and middle turbinated bodies, to which Mulhall applied the term coryza oedematosa. The in- filtration is sometimes migratory, and in this respect resembles Quincke's oedema. It appears to be associated with digestive disorders in neurotic patients. Nasal Neuroses associated ivith Disease in other Regions.—Undoubtedly a large number of cases of spasmodic asthma are associated with either hyperaesthesia and engorgement of the nasal mucosa, nasal polypi, etc., and in a certain number the bronchial affection is due to the intranasal disease. On this question see "Asthma." Many other affections have been reported as instances of nasal neuroses, but in a large proportion the connection is more or less hypo- thetical. Even when a neurosis has been favourably modified as the result of intranasal treatment, it does not necessarily follow that the nervous phenomena were the outcome of the nasal condition, for certain neuroses will often respond to " nerve-shocking" treatment applied to almost any region of the body. But where actual pathological conditions exist in the nasal passages they may well be the determining- factor in the occurrence of some affections depending on central nerve instability, and appropriate treatment of the nasal lesion is sometimes helpful if not essential in the successful treatment of the general neuroses. Thus in a few instances epilepsy has seemed to be caused by nasal abnormalities, the removal of which has been followed by cessation of the epileptic seizures; and in one patient, who never had a fit before or since, an ordinary epileptic attack (gra.nd mal) ensued while I was applying the galvano-cautery to the nasal passages. Watson records a case of tachycardia which was apparently produced by nasal polypi : symptoms of Grave's disease (goitre and tachy- cardia) have vanished after treatment of a rhinitis. Of ocular affections due to nasal neuroses, it is sufficient to mention that strabismus, myopia, asthenopia, narrowing of the visual fields, photo- phobia, epiphora, oedema of the lids, blepharo- spasm, and exophthalmos have been recorded. Treatment.—The foregoing affections being essentially neuroses, it is always desirable to treat the general matter by hygienic measures, and the exhibition of nervine tonics, such as arsenic, strychnine, phosphorus, valerianate of zinc, etc. In many cases baths or massage, a sea-voyage or change of air, or a visit to a suitable continental spa, will afford a more com- plete and lasting cure than any local treatment of the nasal passages. But without falling into the error of exaggerating the importance of