NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 111 and the cavity entered. The sensation of pass- ing through bone, the somewhat sudden release of the point of the instrument and its mobility, will testify to its presence in the sinus. Occa- sionally a case is met with in which the bone offers so much resistance that some other route must be adopted. It is rare to find pus flow outwards through the cannula, so that the con- dition of the cavity must be investigated by the inflation of air or by washing out. For the purpose of inflation a piece of india-rubber tubing, to which a Politzer's bag is attached, is passed over the outer end of the cannula. The operator's left hand holds the nasal speculum and instrument, while with the right the bag is compressed. The middle meatus is carefully in- spected during the act, and the secretion looked for in it. In order to wash ovit the sinus, a Higginson's syringe with a fine nozzle is at- tached to the cannula, and a warm boracic or warm sterilised salt solution is gently injected. During this procedure the patient should lean slightly forwards over an empty basin, and as the stream of fluid passing through the natural orifice of the antrum flows from the nasal cavity into the basin, it is examined for the detection of abnormal secretion. (e) Exploration through the Natural Opening or Ostium Maxillare.—The introduction of a suitably curved cannula through the hiatus semilunaris into the orifice of the antrum, while recommended by some operators for diagnostic purposes, is by no means an easy procedure. The concealed position of the orifice renders this difficult, and when the mucous membrane is swollen, and small polypi surround the hiatus, the operation is rendered still more difficult. A Hartmann's curved cannula is recommended for this purpose. (/) Exploration through the Socket of a Carious Tooth.—This procedure is a therapeutic as well as a diagnostic one. When there still exists some doubt as to the exact condition of the maxillary sinus, the socket of a diseased tooth—which is first extracted—in relation to the floor of the sinus may be drilled and the cavity washed out (Fig. 1). Should pus be present a suitable plug can then be adapted, as will be described under Treatment. {g) Exploration through the Canine Fossa.— For diagnostic purposes only this route is rarely employed. Should the examiner feel tolerably certain that he is dealing with antral suppura- tion, and in the event of the patient possessing a complete and sound set of teeth, a somewhat rare distinction, an opening may be made in this situation. This will serve to confirm the diagnosis, and at the same time provide a channel for the treatment of the diseased sinus. By adopting the above routine practice the surgeon will probably have convinced himself of the existence of chronic antral suppuration, or, on the other hand, have satisfied himself that the cavity is healthy. If he has failed to do so at the first sitting a second or a third examina- tion may have proved more satisfactory By establishing this diagnosis he has probably not excluded, however, the possibility of a co-existing frontal sinus or anterior ethmoidal cell suppura- tion. Although the antrum in a great number of cases is alone diseased, we know how fre- quently two or more of these cavities are affected in combination. When a considerable quantity of pus is observed in the nose, and only a scanty amount is washed out of the maxillary sinus, the suspicion of some further sinus mischief should be aroused. In some cases a diagnosis of frontal or ethmoidal suppuration is only made after the antrum has been for some time under treatment. If the examination has demon- strated the fact that the antrum is healthy, or if pus still flows into the middle meatus after that cavity has been washed out, it is necessary to proceed to a further investigation of the nose. B. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in the Frontal Sinus.—Under general symptomatology certain points were referred to which suggested that the source of the pus might be in the frontal sinus. Amongst these were noted its greenish colour and the absence of foetor; further, the more continuous flow of the dis- charge, its situation high up and anteriorly in the nose, and its non-appearance after the head has been bent forwards, were also commented upon. The frequent combination of sinus affec- tions, the close anatomical association of the various ostia, and the frequent changes in the position of the patient's head, must necessarily make these signs of little diagnostic value, even should all of them co-exist. (a) Reappearance of Pus in the Middle Meatus after Syringing the Antrum.—After the antrum has been syringed, and the middle meatus care- fully cleansed of every trace of pus, the patient should be directed to sit quietly for ten or fifteen minutes without inclining his head forwards even to a slight degree. At the end of this in- terval the nose is again examined, and if a drop of pus be observed in the middle meatus a suspicion of its origin in the frontal sinus is raised. The position of the ostium maxillare makes it impossible for secretion from that cavity to pass out into the nose in so short a space of time. This observation is assisted by the previous insertion of a wool tampon against the lower and posterior part of the hiatus semi- lunaris as recommended by Griinwald, so that the possible escape of secretion from the antrum is thus hindered. This test, however, does not exclude the possibility of some ethmoidal cell suppuration which is so frequently present along with frontal sinus disease. (h) Tenderness on Pressure upon the Flom' of the Frontal Sinus.—In applying this test pres- sure must be made with the finger upon the thin bony floor of the sinus beneath the inner