492 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM istic reaction is their solubility in hot saturated ammonium sulphate solution. They diffuse very readily through an animal membrane. (B) Conjugated Protein&. — Proteins have a great tendency to link with other substances, and the following compounds are thus produced :— (1) Pro<ea<e«y (Meta-proteins) are formed by linking acids or alkalies to the native proteins. (2) Nucleins, so called because their existence was first demonstrated in the nuclei or central parts of the cell of the body, may readily be split into a protein part and into nucleic acid, a phosphorus-containing material of definite com- position, having an acid reaction, and containing about 10 per cent of phosphorus. In certain places the amount of nucleic acid is large in proportion to the protein, in others it is small. The term nuclein is usually confined to the former, nucleo-alhumin to the latter of these. From the pure nucleic acid, which occurs along with protamine in the heads of spermatozoa, to the proteins almost free of phosphorus there is a continuous series. Nucleic acid, when decomposed, yields phos- phoric acid and a series of bodies called the purin bodies which belong to the class of diureides, and consist of two more or less modified urea molecules linked together by an oxy-acid with three carbons in series. (3) Phospho-Proteins.—Other compounds of proteins with phosphorus-containing molecules occur which do not yield purin bodies when decomposed. Of these vitellin, the protein of the yolk of egg, is an example. (4) Histories are probably proteins linked to protamine. They occur in the globin which may be separated from blood pigment. They have a basic reaction. (5) Glyco-Proteins.—Proteins are linked with sugar-like substances to form compounds, the best-known example of which is mucin. (6) Ghromo-Proteins.—In the pigment of the blood (Hsemoglobin) proteins occur linked to an iron-containing molecule. (C) Sdero-Proteins. — These are substances produced by protoplasm which are closely allied to the proteins—Keratin, Collagen, and Elastin. Their nature is considered under the tissues in which they are found. Section II.—The Cell Protoplasm occurs in the animal body as small separate masses or cells. These vary considerably in size, but, on an average, they are from 7 to 20 micro-millimetres ^ in diameter. The advantage of this subdivision is obvious. It allows nutrient matter to reach every particle of the protoplasm. In all higher animals each cell has a perfectly definite structure. It con- sists of a mass of pi'otoplasm, in which is situated a more or less defined body, the nucleus. 1 The micro-millimetre is the rs'orrth of a millimetre. (A) Cell Protoplasm.—This has the structure already described under protoplasm, and in different cells the reticulum or cytomitoma is differently arranged. In some cells there is a condensation of the reticulum, round the periphery, to form a sort of cell membrane. At some point in the protoplasm of many cells, one or two small spherical bodies, the centrosomes (Fig. 2), are found, from which Fig. 2.—Diagram of a cell to show structure of protoplasm and nucleus. In the protoplasm—A, attraction sphere enclosing two centrosomes; V, vacuole; C, included granules; D, plastids, present in some cells. In the nucleus—jB, nucle- olus ; F, chromatin networlj; G, llnin network; M, karyo- some or net-knot. (Wilson.) rays pass out in different directions. For the detection of these bodies special methods of staining and the use of very high magnifying powers are required. They will be again con- sidered when dealing with the reproduction of cells. The cell protoplasm frequently contains granules, either formed in the protoplasm, or consisting of material ingested by the cells. In the protoplasm, vacuoles are sometimes found, and from a study of these vacuoles in protozoa, it appears that they are often formed round material which has been taken into the protoplasm, and that they are filled with a fluid which can digest the nutritious part of the ingested particles. In some cells, vacuoles may appear in the process of disintegration. In certain cells protoplasm undergoes changes in shape. This may well be studied in the white cells in the blood of the frog or newt. Processes are pushed out, and these are again withdrawn, or the whole cell may gradually follow the process, and thus change its position. The processes are called pseudopodia (false feet), and the mode of movement, from its i-esemblance to that seen in the amoeba, is called amoeboid.