201 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE of adrenal tissue occasionally found in the broad ligament must not be placed under the present heading, which also mvist not include instances when an ovary is completely divided into two parts by a groove. A few examples of an ab- solutely distinct third ovary have been reported by writers of repute. In von Winckel's, the best known, the third ovary is represented as springing from the front of the uterus im- mediately internal to the right round ligament. Schultz-Schultzenstein, in figuring an intra- ligamentary myo-sarcoma from a post-mortem subject where both normal ovaries existed, re- presents the tumour springing from a pedicle anterior to the Fallopian tube—in the same position, in fact, as in von Winckel's case; but his belief that it was a sarcoma of a third ovary is based on uncertain grounds. Pedun- culated solid tumours of the broad ligament quite independent of the ovary and uterus are not very rare. In Winkler's case two left ovaries of normal size existed; in Keppler's two svich ovaries were provided with a Fallopian tube apiece. One or two other more doubtful examples of the anomaly are recorded. When menstruation continues after alleged removal of both ovaries we must not be too ready to assume that an accessory ovary has been left behind. In svxch a theory there are many sources of fallacy. Absence op Ovary.—This condition is either teratological, or simply means that the organ has become adherent to some other structure, and has separated from its normal connections, so that it exists but away from its normal place and attachments. Assumptions about the ovary in any case of malformation of the genitals are unsatisfactory. Both ovaries may be present when the uterus is represented by a mere cord (Cruise). Teratological absence of the ovaries has been found in every degree. Kossmann and others have proved on clinical evidence that total absence not only of the ovaries, but also of the uterus, is not incompatible with survival to adult life. But the malformation is often associated with more or less mental disease, with frigidity, or in some cases, it would appear, with nymphomania. Indeed, it seems as though it were sometimes the cause of the psychical derangement. In a case of a female lunatic, who died aged thirty-eight, and whose insanity began at puberty, the author found a uterus fcetalis with atresia of the os externum, whilst the ovaries had atrophied or rather never developed. Painful coitus and other distressing- symptoms are observed in cases of absence of the ovaries. Absence of one ovary is a terato- logical condition rarely though occasionally CO-existent with perfect development of the uterus and opposite ovary. Scanzoni found it associated in two cases with arrested develop- ment of the corresponding mammary gland. Rvdimentary ovaries come under the present category, but are more frequent than the above malformations. They are often associated with similar grave psychical complications. Not rarely they give rise to severe pain, for which reason they have been successfully removed. Absence of the ovary from its normal side is one result of extreme torsion of the pedicle of an ovarian tumour; but the same accident may occur to a small ovary adherent to omentum. Hence, when after removing an ovarian tumour the surgeon finds nothing but a stump on the opposite side, he should carefully search for the missing ovary higher up in the abdomen. Arrested descent of the ovary will be discussed under Hernia of Ovary. Atrophy and Hypertrophy of Ovary.— Atrophy before the menopause is the rule in wasting diseases. It must not be confounded with imperfect development of the ovary described above under the heading Rudimen- tary Ovaries, nor with cirrhotic contraction from inflammation. Both these conditions are usually associated with pain. It is doubtful whether pure uncomplicated atrophy is ever painful. Hypertrophy pure and simple is a doubtful condition, not to be confounded with oedema and hydrops folliculi. Hernia of Ovary and Allied Affections must here be considered in relation to the ovary alone. As varieties of rupture they have been described under " Hernia." Arrested descent has been observed by Martin in three ovariotomies. The normal ovary was detected high above the pelvic brim, against the side of the lumbar vertebra3, immediately under the kidney. Prolapse into Douglas's pouch, when not due to inflammatory swelling or adhesion, is akin to hernia. In Ward Cousins's case, in a lunatic aged fifty, there was bad prolapse of the uterus and rectum. Rupture of the vagina occurred during violent straining, and one ovary and tube protruded through the wound ; they were successfully removed. Hermaphroditism in Congenital Inguinal Hernia.—An ovary-like structure in such a hernia has repeatedly proved to be a testicle (Chambers, Martin, G. R. Turner, F. Neuge- bauer ; thirty-three cases). In the most recent case (Turner's) a movable, oval, irreducible swelling was removed from the left inguinal region, from a " girl" aged fourteen, ruptured from her birth. It proved to be a testicle; then atresia vaginee and absence of any sign of a uterus were detected. Hence in any case of congenital inguinal hernia the external and internal genitals should be explored carefully. The ovary in a hernial sac, "ovarian hernia," with no doubt about the nature of the ovary, is frequent. The hernia is usually inguinal (excluding all doubtful cases), but may be femoral, umbilical (Solvieff), obturator, or even ischiatic or gluteal (Waldeyer, Routier). The homologies of the normal descent of the