PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 513 and ooustruction leads to the repair of the muscles and to the storage of energy. No part of physiology is of more importance; for it is the chemical changes in mviscle which give rise to the great waste products of the body, and it is to make good these losses that fresh nourishi|ient has to be supplied. The chemical changes in muscle therefore govern both the intake and output of matter from the body. By studying the question from a number of different standpoints, and by comparing the results so obtained, a fairly clear conception of the chemical changes and the source of muscular energy has been obtained. 1. Co7nj)osition of Muscle before and after Contraction.—The method which most naturally presents itself is to take two muscles or groups of muscles corresponding to one another, and to examine the chemistry of one before it has been made to contract, and of the other after it has been contracting for some time. Resting muscle is alkaline; but if an excised muscle, outside the body, be kept contract- ing for some time, it becomes acid, and this acidity is due to the appearance of carbo7i dioxide and saixolactic acid. Muscle in the body does not become acid, because the alka- line lymph at once neutralises the acid which is produced. Again, after contraction, the glycogen of the muscle is found to be diminished. But the most important change is that the amount of carbon dioxide, CO^, which can be extracted from muscle is very greatly increased. As yet the changes, if any, in the proteins of muscle during contraction have not been fully investigated, and the results of the work accomplished on the nitrogenous extractives, which are formed by the decomposition of the proteins, are not trustworthy. They seem to indicate that these bodies are increased during muscular contraction in the excised muscle. These changes in a muscle may be diagram- matically represented as follows:— + Carbon dioxide. + Sarcolactic acid. -1- Nitrogenous extractives ? — Glycogen. The results obtained by this method of investi- gation are thus of considerable value, but alone they give us no clear idea of the nature of the chemical changes. 2. Respiration of Excised Muscle.—By en- closing the excised muscle in a closed space containing air of known composition, and by investigating the changes in the components of the air after the muscle has either been kept at rest for some time or made to contract, im- VOL. VII portant light has also been thrown on these chemical changes. It has been found that the resting muscle constantly takes up oxygen from the air round about it, and constantly gives oif carbon dioxide. In contracting, more carbon dioxide is given off, and usually the amount of oxygen taken up is also increased (Fig. 31). Here we have at once evidence that muscle breathes, and that this process of respiration is increased during muscular activity. The affinity of muscle for oxygen is very great—so great that Fia. 31.—Respiration of muscle in a closed chamber. it can actually take oxygen out of chemical combinations. If alizarin blue be injected into the vein of an animal, the blood becomes blue, but the muscles remain colourless, having re- duced the pigment to a colourless condition. When freely exposed to air after death, the blue colour returns. 3. Changes in the Blood passing through Muscle.—For the investigation of this the hind legs of a dog have been used. The blood going to one leg, and the blood coming from the other, are collected at the same time. It is found that the blood in passing through the muscles has gained carbon dioxide and lost oxygen. If the muscles be kept contracted, it is further ascertained that the amount of carbon dioxide gained is increased, while usually the amount of oxygen taken up is also increased. This obser- vation confirms the investigations on the changes in the air surrounding a muscle. But the solid constituents of the blood are also changed. If the muscles have been con- tracting, the blood is found to contain sarco- lactic acid probably combined with ammonia. We shall afterwards find that blood contains small quantities of glucose, CpH^g^e- -^^ passes through muscle it loses some of this, even when the muscle is at rest, and a much larger amount when the muscle has been active. The changes in the proteins of the blood going to and coming from muscle have not been properly investigated. Some observers have obtained results which seem to indicate that the amount of fat which is found in the blood is diminished as the blood passes through the muscles, but whether this diminution is greater during muscular activity has not been studied. 33