PHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE 463 substance. Hysterical and neurasthenic patients may, however, complain of a soreness for months afterwards. The possibility of the presence of a second foreign body must not be overlooked. A dangerous issue is uncommon, but deaths have occurred from suffocation, and from per- foration of the large arteries. A foreign body long retained in a tonsillar crypt may become encrusted with mineral salts and form a calculus (tonsillith). The treatment consists in removing the foreign body as soon as possible. This can usually be effected by means of suitable forceps. If suffocation is imminent, it may be necessary to perform tracheotomy in the first place. Pharyngomycosis. — Keratosis pharyngis. — The disease commonly but incorrectly termed " pharyngo-mycosis" is characterised by the presence of small, isolated, tough, firmly ad- herent white excrescences on the healthy mucous membrane. The excrescences may ap- pear as points, tiny patches, or elongated out- growths, attaining a length of from 2 to 10 mm. They can usually be torn off only with difficulty, and one of the most striking features of the disease is the rapidity and persistence with which they recur after removal. The excrescences are most commonly found on the faucial tonsils and at the base of the tongue; much less frequently on the lateral parts of the pharyngeal wall and in the naso- pharynx. In a few cases they have been ob- served on the epiglottis, in the larynx {Gray), and nose (Wright). The subjects of this disease are usually between fifteen and forty years of age ; females are affected oftener than males. It is doubtful whether digestive or other constitutional dis- turbances predispose. A few small excrescences may occasion no symptoms. When prominent, however, they may give rise to a feeling of discomfort or irri- tation, which in turn may cause hawking and coughing. The patient's temperament also plays a part, so that the symptoms do not always bear a direct relation to the morbid appearances. The general health, as a rule, is unaffected. If one of the excrescences be examined, the surface is found to be soft, while the central part is tough and firm. Microscopically, the soft substance is seen to consist of a granular material, scattered through which are numerous leptothrix filaments, while the central part is made up of closely-packed cornified epithelial cells. The abundance of the leptothrix led the earlier investigators to believe that the disease was due to the presence of this saprophyte. The affection consequently was believed to be a mycosis; hence the names—mycosis tonsillaris benigna {B. Frankel), pharyngomycosis lepto- thricia {Heryng). Recently, however, Sieben- mann has shown that the excrescences are due to an excessive cornification of the lacunar epithelium, and as a slighter form of this pro- cess goes on in the tonsillar crypts very fre- quently, he terms the condition " hyperkeratosis lacunaris." Brown Kelly subsequently adduced further proofs in support of Siebenmann's state- ments, and pointed out that, while the disease under consideration is a keratosis, a true mycosis leptothricia is occasionally observed in the pharynx. When keratosis pharyngis is well developed the diagnosis is easy. If only a few small excrescences are present on the tonsils, they may be taken for the deposits of chronic lacunar tonsillitis, which is commonly associated with keratosis. These deposits, however, are flis- tinguished by being soft, readily pressed out, and foul smelling. The disease, after persisting for a varying period, sometimes for years, may pass off spon- taneously. If little or no inconvenience arises from the excrescences, it usually suffices to explain their harmless nature to the patient. On the other hand, if they are causing discomfort or mental disquietude their removal should be undertaken. Many medicinal agents—e.g. salicylic acid, zinc chloride, and iodine preparations—have been employed for this purpose, but as a rule nothing short of the tedious process of picking off each excrescence and cauterising its site has succeeded in eradicating the disease. Neuroses of Sensation. — Anaesthesia and Hypcesthesia.—Complete or partial loss of sensa- tion, due to involvement of the glosso-pharyn- geal and vagus, may be of central or peripheral origin. The chief central lesions are haemor- rhages, tumours, gummata, tabes, bulbar para- lysis, syringomyelia, multiple sclerosis, and pseudo-bulbar paralysis. The conditions that may affect the nerves peripherally are diph- theria, various local inflammations, influenza, typhus, cholera, and pneumonia. Anaesthesia is not infrequently associated with hysteria, and is present in some cases of epilepsy for a short time after the seizure. In anaemia and in old age diminished sensibility is occasionally detected. Transient anaesthesia or hypaesthesia may also be artificially produced by cocaine, eucaine, menthol, ethyl chloride, ice, morphia, bromides, chloral, etc. Anaesthesia may be partial (hypaesthesia) or complete, unilateral or bilateral, confined to the soft palate, or affecting the entire pharynx. If partial and limited, it may escape the patient's notice. If marked and extensive, de- glutition will be incommoded by the inability to feel the bolus of food in the throat, and if anaesthesia of the larynx is also present, portions may enter it. The extent and degree of the neurosis may be estimated by use of the probe.