147 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF chorea, and insanity, while others consider their influence in such matters to have been greatly exaggerated. Two points especially call for remark, namely, that it is quite certain that many persons have errors of this nature which never give them the smallest uneasiness, and that occasionally one meets with a case in which such an error really does cause headache or similar discomfort. The general opinion on this side of the Atlantic is not in favour of so frequent interference with minimal degrees of error by tenotomy, whether " graduated" or not, as appears to be considered good prac- tice in America. Be the reason what it may, we do not meet with cases which on account of bodily ailment call for interference by operation, with anything approaching the frequency which seems to rule in the United States, at least if one may judge from the writings of certain authors. The various abnormalities which may in this way occur are spoken of as hyperphoria when one visual axis makes an angle in the vertical sense with the other, as exophoria when there is divergence, and as esophoria when there is convergence of the axes. These may in any case be combined, and indeed when present vei-y often are combined into hyperesophoria or hyperexophoria. The treatment of such con- ditions may be either palliative or more radical; the former consisting in the adaptation of prismatic lenses (combined, if necessary, with convex or concave spherical and cylindrical lenses), so placed and of such power that they shall negative the influence of the incorrect position of the eyes. Thus in a case of hyper- phoria it may be necessary to cause the patient to wear a prismatic glass with its apex upwards before the off"ending eye. All prismatic glasses must of necessity be heavy, for which and for other reasons it is desirable to spread the efl'ect over the two eyes. Thus a patient with right hyperphoria, to correct which he would require to wear a prism of 4° apex up before the right eye, can attain the same result by wearing before each eye a prism of 2°, the apex up in the case of the right, downwards in the case of the left eye. The case becomes more complicated when one has to do with a combined inward-and-upward or outward-and-upward de- fect, but it is worked out on the same lines. One has simply to discover first the amount of vertical deviation, and correct that by a prism ; then similarly with the lateral deviation and the strengtli of prism required for that; then to combine these two prisms, one with its apex upwards, the other with its apex outwards or inwards, as the case may be, into one simple prism whose apex is in a direction intermediate between those. In a few cases it is good practice to correct the vertical defect by a prism in the vertical sense before one eye, and the lateral defect by a prism in the horizontal sense before the other. It should also be borne in mind that a patient will very readily, in most cases, overcome by muscular action a small lateral defect, provided the vertical error is artificially corrected for him by a prism. In any case in which the refractive error is large and the position error small, one may attain one's end without prisms by means of decentration of the convex or concave lens which the patient requires {see Maddox). This palliative method is applicable only in those cases of malposition of the eye, congenital or acquired, in which there is dis- tinct desire on the part of the patient for binocular fixation, and we shall have occasion to revert to the subject when speaking of the treatment of paralytic strabismus; it is not applicable except when the amount of error is slight. The radical methods of treatment consist in operation upon the muscles, either in the direc- tion of diminishing the power of the muscle which is relatively too strong (tenotomy), or of increasing the power of a direct or indirect antagonist (advancement). To this matter we shall revert when speaking of paralytic strabis- mus. (»S'ee a^so " Strabismus, Concomitant.") Nystagmus In Nystagmus we have to deal with a peculiar condition of the ocular muscles in which there is involuntary movement of the eyes. This movement practically always (though there are rare exceptions) aff"ects both eyes, though not invariably to the same degree, and, according to circumstances, may be in (1) a vertical, (2) a horizontal, (3) a rotatory, or (4) a mixed sense. An important feature of nystagmus, and one which has an important bearing upon its etiology, is that, with a possible exception to be mentioned presently, the movement of the two eyes is invariably conjugate, that is, that both eyes move upwards or downwards, or to the right side, or to the left side, or are rotated like the hands of a watch, or in the contrary direction to the hands of a watch, at the same moment. The way in which this very important fact may be most simply stated, and the manner of stating the fact which most clearly shows this point in the etiology, is to say that the move- ments take place as they do in the normal eye; they occur as voluntary movements do, being due to outflow of nerve impulses from the centres, and are in this sense only muscular manifestations of nervous excitations. Thus when rotation of the upper half of one eye to the left occurs, the upper part of the other cornea is also turned to the left; while had this been due to a truly muscular lesion, then the muscles of the left eye which one would have expected to act along with the superior oblique and the superior rectus (producing rotation to the left) of the patient's right eye are clearly 7iot the inferior rectus and inferior