PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 525 The ingoing fibres are probably five times as numerous as the outgoing fibres, and each one of them is connected, or may become func- tionally connected, with many different com- binations of outgoing fibres. Hence it is diffi- cult to get a reflex which does not interfere with others, either by increasing or antagonising them. The outgoing paths are merely passive channels in the hands of certain ingoing reflex paths. In illustration of this, Sherrington cites the outgoing motor neuron to the vasto-crureus of the dog, and in Fig. 42 shows how this is the common path to different reflexes induced by different stimulation of different parts of the body. Some stimuli excite its activity and may be grouped together as " allied " ; others inhibit its activity and thus act as "antagonistic" to the former group. Spread of Beflexes. — While with gentle stimuli many reflexes tend to manifest them- selves in the outgoing neurons of the same region of the cord, other reflexes, such as the scratch reflex of the dog, always involve neurons in widely different regions. But even in re- flexes which are localised when gentle stimuli are applied, and which tend to spread under the influence of powerful stimulation, the spreading Fl8. 44.—Eeflex ligures struck in decerebrated cat on stimulating a fore and a hind paw. (Sherrington.) occurs along definite lines for each type of stimulation. Thus, the ordinary flexion-with- drawal of the foot on stimulation is at first confined to the ham-string muscles; but, as the stimulus is increased in strength, the movement spreads to involve the flexors of the hip and knee, extension of the opposite hind leg, then extension of the fore limb of the same side and flexion at the elbow of the opposite fore limb with some extension of the wrist, turning the head towards the same side, often opening of the mouth and lateral deviation of the tail. Thus a reflex figure tends to be struck, and in the striking of this figure the stimuli from the muscles and joints set up by each stage of the movements probably play a very important part (Fig. 44). These definite channels of spread of reflex action appear to have been developed by the progress of evolution. The Receptors.—It is much more easy to elicit reflex action by acting upon the neuron- termination than by acting upon the nerve iu its course. This may be demonstrated by observing the relative strengths of the pinch which it is necessary to apply to the skin of the foot of the frog and to the exposed sciatic nerve in order to produce a reflex contraction of the muscles. The receptors have the property of lowering the threshold of effective stimulation. When the mechanisms involved in the special senses are studied (p. 527 et seq.) it will be found that special receptors are developed, each variety of which lowers the threshold of ex- citability of the arc for one kind of stimulus and increases it for all others. It is by this arrangement that different kinds of change each produce their appropriate result. Classification of Receptors. — It has been already seen that different reflexes of the cord may be evoked by different kinds of stimulation from without. Different stimuli each call forth a distinctive response. Thus, an injurioiis stimulus to the foot causes a flexion and with- drawal of the leg, while pressure between the toes causes an extension. Various receptors are, as it were, tuned to special kinds of stimu- lation. Those which respond to stimuli from without may be called extero-ceptive. They may be roughly classified into those responding to injurious stimuli, noci-ceptive, and those responding to non-inj urious stimuli. Those connected with the cord respond to stimuli re- sulting fx'om changes in close proximity to the body, such as touch, the addition or withdrawal of heat, the application of chemical substances. But spinal reflexes are not only evoked by stimulation from the outside of the animal, but also from stimulation of the inside, e.g. stimula- tion of the inside of the stomach. The receptors situated in these viscera may be called intero- ceptive. Yet another set of stimuli come into play in spinal reflex action. The end organs of neurons in the muscles, tendons and joints may be stimulated by the reflex response of the muscles, and may in turn set up reflex action often sus- tained and tonic in character and of great importance in determining the posture assumed. These receptors, stimulated by the condition of the animal's own tissues, may be termed proprio- ceptive (see Fig. 43). Stimulation of the extero-ceptive receptors plays the chief part in initiating movements ; stimulation of the proprio-ceptive, as a result of these, in guiding and co-ordinating the move- ments. The proprio-ceptive reflex when induced may reinforce the extero-ceptive reflex which started it, or it may evoke compensatory move- ments, bringing the part back to its former position.