404 PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF it is irregular, or intermits a beat at irregular intervals, but this is very rare in adults in the earlier stages. The pulse wave is not at first noticeably affected, but in severe and prolonged attacks it becomes sudden, short, and ill-sus- tained. The pulse is then one of low tension, and dicrotism is well marked. Increase in the Area of Cardiac Dulness.— One of the earliest and most characteristic physical signs in acute pericarditis is the in- crease in the area of cardiac dulness, which can be readily made out on percussion. It is more rapid and extensive in proportion to the severity and acuteness of the attack, and is also very pronounced in the later stages of subacute or relapsing pericarditis. It is most marked in children, in whom also it can more easily be mapped out than in adults, as the chest-wall is thin, and there are no emphysematous changes in the lungs. The greatest increase is usually to the right, and the dulness may extend to an inch or more beyond the right margin of the sternum, and upwards as far as the second rib. Sibson apparently took it for granted that increase in the area of cardiac dulness indicated pericardial effusion, and this view has been main- tained by many authors since. In a certain small proportion of cases this undoubtedly holds good ; but there is much evidence to show that in by far the greater number of cases of rheu- matic pericarditis this increase in dulness indi- cates not effusion, but dilatation of the heart, more especially of the right auricle and ventricle. In 1895, in a monograph on Adherent Peri- cai'dium, I described a series of cases tending to prove this ; in two of these paracentesis peri- cardii was performed in the belief that the rapid and extensive increase in the cardiac dulness indicated effusion. In neither instance was fluid found; but the needle punctured the dilated right ventricle, fortunately without ill results. In 1898 Dr. Lees and Dr. Poynton, in a paper, read before the Medico-Chirurgical Society, on " Acute Dilatation of the Heart in Rheumatism and Chorea," also drew attention to this point. From an analysis of 150 cases of fatal rheumatic heart disease in children they found that in only 12 was there marked excess of fluid in the peri- cardium, but that cardiac dilatation was the rule. Clinically it is a common experience in sub- acute cases, when the area of cardiac dulness is very much enlarged, extending for an inch or more to the right of the sternum, to hear a pericardial rub at one or more points over the dull area. This seems incompatible with the presence of fluid; and in these cases, at the post-mortem, no fluid is found, but a dilated heart, sometimes with the pericardium partially adherent. Siipis of Effusion. — Disappearance of the friction rub with progressive and extensive in- crease in the area of cardiac didness are usually regarded as indicative of effusion into the peri- cardial sac; but, as has been stated above, increase in the area of cardiac dulness in a large proportion of cases indicates, not effusion, but dilatation of the heart, and the disappearance of the friction rub may be due, not to fluid, but to the formation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium. It is by no means an easy matter to determine, by percussion alone, when effusion takes place. The outline of the cardiac dulness in effusion is described as being pyramidal or pyriform in shape, with the base or widest part below. Sibson in his treatise on Pericarditis gave a series of diagrams based on percussion, illustrating the shape assumed by the pericardial sac in the various stages of effusion ; but it is doubtful how far these are of practical value for differential diagnosis, as they are not confirmed by post-mortem examination, and it is possible that cardiac dilatation may have been mistaken for effusion in many instances. It is not safe, therefore, to dogmatise as to the exact shape and extent of the area of cardiac dulness in the earlier stages of effusion, but it is generally admitted that it increases in all dimensions and tends eventually to assume a pyriform outline. Dr. F. Roberts also points out that in extensive effusion dulness can be made out to the left considerably beyond the apex beat. The transition from the dull area to the resonant lung is sudden and well marked, and the extent and shape of the cardiac dulness will vary somewhat with change of position of the patient, being increased in its upper part when the patient sits up and leans forward. This, however, is not a safe test, as it may produce fatal syncope. Rotch and Ewart state that in effusion there is dulness in the fifth right intercostal space, due to accumulation of fluid in a pouch in the right corner of the pericardial sac, and that this dul- ness is not present in simple dilatation. I have, however, in several instances found dulness in this position in cases in which post-mortem no fluid was found, but a dilated heart with the pericardium adherent. Change in the Position of the Apex Beat.— Sibson and other observers have stated that effusion causes displacement of the apex beat upwards and outwards; but there is much diversity of opinion on this point, and, more- over, in extensive effusion the apex beat is usually imperceptible. Progressive enfeeblenient of the apex beat from day to day, and its eventual disappearance, together with increasing weakness and distance of the heart sounds as heard at the apex, in association with progressive and rapid increase of the area of cardiac dulness, are strongly suggestive of pericardial effusion. Confirmatory evidence will be afforded if at the same time there is marked exacerbation of the symptoms, such as pra3cordial oppression; cyanosis; fulness