NEW-BORN INFANT 52 See also Asphyxia (Treatment, In Neiv-born Children); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Predisposing Causes, Anatomical Peculiarities, in Nexv-horn Infants); Infant-Feeding ; Labour ; Nursery Hygiene ; Pregnancy, Pathology of [Intra-uterine Diseases of the Fcetus); Sclerema Neonatorum ; Teratology. Definition.—The term " new-born " is applied to the infant during the first month of his post- natal existence. There has been life already, during the ante-natal period—the life, however, has been of a semi-parasitic kind, dependent upon that of the mother; but after birth the life of the child may go on independently of that of the mother so long as there is some one to care for it and supply the wants that are peculiar to it. While the mother is passing through the puerperal period of life her infant is passing through the neonatal, and in both periods there are most interesting changes going on which are largely of the nature of readjustment of function—changes which leave their impress vipon the diseases of these epochs and necessitate special treatment and management. Anatomical Peculiarities.—The new-born in- fant is not the adult in miniature; the changes which occur during the passage from the in- fantile to the adult state are not simply increases in size of the body, its parts, and its organs. There is, it is true, an increase in size of many parts and viscera ; but it is not in proportion, and some organs which were relatively large in the infant are relatively small in the adult. There are, therefore, anatomical peculiarities in the new-born infant, and, in a phrase, these may be described as conditions resembling, on the one hand, the anatomy of the fcetus, and on the other that of the child and adult. The anatomy of the neonatus is a transitional anatomy. In the relative size of the various regions of the body the new-born resembles the foetus rather than the adult. As compared with the child or adult the infantile head is relatively large, and the infantile limbs are relatively small; further, the cranium is relatively larger than the face, and the upper limbs than the lower ; and both the thorax and the pelvis are relatively smaller than the abdomen. The vis- cera show the same peculiarity: the liver is relatively large, and, compared with the right, the left lobe is large out of the adult proportion ; the thymus gland, cerebrum, and the supra- renal capsules are disproportionately large, while the stomach and cerebellum are small; the body of the uterus is small, while the cervix and the vagina are large; and as regards the regions of the spinal column, it may be said that in the infant the cervical is nearly, if not quite, as long as the lumbar, while in the adult it is in the proportion of 2 to 3. In their relations to each other the parts and organs of the body of the infant also show peculiarities. The hyoid, for instance, lies opposite the axis vertebra instead of opposite the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra, as in the adult. The larynx also is about two vertebral bodies higher in the neck, and the bifurcation of the trachea is one vertebra higher than in the adult. The heart is situated more transversely in the thorax, and at a little higher level in relation to the spine ; the apex is farther to the left and higher in the infant, corresponding often with the nipple. With the establishment of respiration the lungs, which have been lying at the back of the thorax, come forwards, and the left one insinuates itself between the heart and the anterior chest-wall; the presence of the large thynms in front of the heart prevents the close approximation of the lungs to each other save in their upper portions. In the infant at birth the stomach lies entirely under cover of the left lobe of the liver, but as the digestive functions are established, it emerges gradually from under the hepatic border. The umbilicus at this time in life is situated nearly equally distant from the feet and the vertex, but a little nearer the feet; in later childhood it corresponds with the symphysis pubis. The relatively large size of the liver increases its relations with other abdominal oi'gans, and it comes, for instance, into contact with the surface of the spleen; the spleen also has a contact relation with the left adrenal. The relations of the intestines are often ill-defined at birth, and anomalies are met with ; but it is fairly common to find a loop of the sigmoid flexure in the pelvis in male infants. The urinary bladder is an abdominal organ in the infant, and between its anterior sui'face and the abdominal wall there is no intervening pouch of peritoneum. In the female, also, the greater part of the uterus and the tubes and ovaries lie above the plane of the pelvic brim. The form of several of the infantile organs exhibits peculiarities. The liver, for example, as has been shown by the frozen sectional method, possesses six surfaces—a superior, left inferior, anterior, posterior, right, and left; the left surface is due to the large size of the left lobe. The stomach has a relatively small fundus, and the lesser curvature forms a more acute angle than in the adult organ. The kidneys show traces of lobulation, a foetal character; and the suprarenal capsules have much more dis- tinctly, than in adult life, the pyramidal shape. There are yet other anatomical peculiarities which are found in the infant at birth. In the heart, for instance, the foramen ovale and the ductus arteriosus, which are open in the fcetus and at birth, close during the first month of life ; probably both are physiologically closed within a few minutes of birth, although they may be anatomically pervious for some weeks later. The same statement may be applied to the ductus venosus in the liver. In the cheek of