PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 428 and expel the contents, although one may be very disappointed with the result at the time of operation. In these desperate cases the first point is to save the patient's life; if recovery ensues, surgery can readily deal with the arti- ficial anus that is formed. 2. Rapid Laparotomy -with Drainage.—The patient is quickly anaesthetised, and as soon as the abdominal wall is flaccid a median incision is made, and any inflammatory exudation is allowed to escape; if rapid examination reveals the focus of origin, a tube and gauze drain are inserted down to the suppurating spot. If the seat of origin cannot be found promptly, a gauze drain may be left in the peritoneal cavity and the wound partially closed. If the intestine is much dilated the first distended coil should be opened, and a T-shaped glass tube should be inserted as already described. 3. Laparotomy vnth Local Anaesthesia.—The skin of the abdomen in the middle line should be rendered ansesthetic with ^-eucaine. As much should be done as the patient can bear under the conditions of local anaesthesia. In no department of surgery is it more im- portant for the surgeon to form his opinion with decision, to commence operation without delay, and to operate quickly. Nothing is more certain than that every additional minute of exposure in the case of an abdominal section diminishes the patient's chances of recovery. After-Treatment.—There is nearly always a great deal of restlessness after laparotomy for general peritonitis, and it is generally neces- sary to give a hypodermic injection of morphine (gr. \). Very often the patients are much collapsed, and a hypodermic injection of strych- nine (gr. ^ to gr. yV) acts with an immediately good result. If the pulse becomes very feeble, it is advisable to " infuse" the patient with a normal saline solution, taking care that the sohi- tion is nmintained at the body temperature as it enters. Nothing depresses the patient more than to infuse a pint or two of solution at a temperature less than that of the body. In bad cases this " infusion " is best given through the basilic vein. In moderate cases of collapse half-pints of hot water placed into the rectum at frequent intervals are rapidly absorbed. 2. It is most important to keep the alimentary canal at rest, and tlierefore the introduction of food into the stomach should be prohibited. All food should be given by the rectum. Per- haps the best is peptonised beef-tea and small quantities of brandy. So far as nourishment is concerned, the patient obtains quite sufficient to tide him over the crisis of the disease. As a rule, if a patient is alive and improving on the fourth day after the operation, he will recover. 3. One of the most constant and difficult symptoms to treat is thirst. The general sensa- tion of thirst is best satisfied by injections of warm watfer per rectum ; but the local condition of thirst, where the patient craves for some- thing for the mouth, a little warm water, or if much preferred, a little iced water, may be given. In cases of excessive thirst a feeder full of water (5 oz.) may be given; even if this is vomited no great harm is done, provided the act is not frequently repeated. 4. The toilet of the tongue and mouth generally is most important in these cases. A little care on the part of the nurse in scraping away the debris from the furred tongue and from the dry lips, and mucous membrane of the cheeks, relieves a great deal of the patient's suffering. A solution of bicarbonate of soda (20 grs. to the oz.) is a good solution for re- moving the decomposing material, and after- wards a little weak carbolic lotion (1 in 80) is a good mouth disinfectant. 5. After the operation no aperient should be given for the first twenty-four hours. As soon as the patient has rallied sufficiently from the operation, and if there is distension of the intestine, an enema of water (a pint) combined with tincture of valerian (1 drachm) should be given. If at the end of twenty-four hours the patient is improving, small doses of sulphate of magnesium may be given, say 3j of each, every three hours, or small doses of calomel (gr. \) every thi-ee hours. The Administration op Opium and Morphine. —Before the question of operative treatment has been discussed and definitely decided upon, no opium or morphine in any form should be given. The administration of this drug causes an immediate improvement in all the symptoms ; the pain is diminished, the rigidity of the abdominal muscles may disappear altogether, and the patient's general condition is so much improved that the surgeon may be quite deceived as to the gravity of the case. Many lives have been lost owing to the false appearance of im- provement brought about by the administration of this drug. The patient's improvement may be maintained until suddenly the dose of poison absorbed from the peritoneal surface reaches its maximum, and the patient suddenly collapses. If the case is considered too bad for operative interference, then morphia may be given until the patient is quite relieved of all distressing symptoms. After the operation, we have already alluded to the value of morphine in quieting the nervous system and also in stimu- lating the action of the heart. In all post- operation cases, however, morphine should be given with especial care that no inertia of the intestines is produced. Non-operative Treatment. — According to our present knowledge, there is no reasonable method of attempting to cure a case of acute general peritonitis by medicinal means. One might be inclined to take exception to this strong statement in the case of general peri- tonitis without any local lesion. For instance.