PHARMACOLOGY 451 (2) Methane Series. {See also "Alcohol," " Anaesthetics," "Hypnotics.")—Many of this group possess hypnotic or soporific qualities. The most important of these are chloral hydrate, butyl chloral hydrate, chloretone, and chloral- amide ; paraldehyde; and sulphonal and trional. Chloral in small doses depresses the nervous system and produces sleep closely resembling the natural condition ; it has no analgesic action, hence pain hinders the soporific effect. In moderate doses the heart is slowed, and in larger doses the blood pressure falls and the circulation fails. Reflex irritability is diminished and finally abolished, the medulla being the last part affected, though ultimately the respiratory centre is paralysed {vide " Toxicology "). In some persons erythematous or urticarial rashes are produced by chloral. Butyl chloral acts like chloral, but is reputed to be analgesic, particularly as regards the fifth nerve. Chloralamide has soporific action, but is said (though this is doubtful) not to depress the circulation. Paraldehyde is a pure hypnotic, somewhat resembling alcohol. It produces a condition closely i-esembling natural sleep. It acts rapidly, and is excreted mainly by the urine and lungs, the odour hanging about the patient for some hours after administration. If paraldehyde be taken repeatedly over a considerable length of time, it produces in some persons tremor and indistinctness of articulation not unlike chronic alcoholism. This, however, passes off with the cessation of the drug. Sulphonal has a very similar action to the above ; it is very insoluble in water, and hence is absorbed and eliminated slowly. It should be given in a large quantity of hot fluid. It does not depress the heart. The sleep which follows is often succeeded by a feeling of lassitude and drowsiness. For the symptoms of poison- ing, see " Toxicology" (cf. also paragraph on chemical constitution and physiological action, a7ite). (3) Antijjyretics of the Aromatic {Carbolic and Salicylic Acid) Series.—Most of these are ob- tained from coal or wood tar. The principal members of the series are Carbolic acid or Phenol (CgHjOH), Eesorcin, the Naphthols, Thymol, and Guaiacol. The presence of the carboxyl group (COOH) lessens the toxicity of the aromatic series, and bodies containing it are employed as intestinal antiseptics and for other purposes. Salicylic acid (CgH^OHCOOH) and Benzoic acid (CgHgOHCOOH) are the chief of these. Carbolic acid is a general protoplasm poison, acting (in the higher vertebrates) chiefly on the nervous system. It is markedly destructive to lower forms of life, but not to unorganised ferments, and has a more penetrating action than the metallic antiseptics. Concentrated, it is an escharotic, painless from its local anaes- thetic action; when large doses of undiluted acid are taken it acts like a corrosive poison. After absorption it produces depression, vomit- ing, giddiness, pallor, and collapse, with failure of the heart and respiration ; the blood corpus- cles are destroyed, and there may be haemoglo- binuria. In chronic poisoning, as in absorption from the skin, vomiting, collapse, and rapid pulse occur. {See also under "Toxicology.") Carbolic acid is excreted unoxidised for the most part, but some is excreted in the urine as sulphates and glycuronates of phenol, hydro- quinone, and pyrocatechin; the characteristic greenish-black colour of the urine is due to the further oxidation of the two last. Sidphocarbolates act like carbolic acid, but are less toxic. They are used as intestinal dis- infectants. Thymol resembles carbolic acid in its action, but is less toxic. The Naphthols ^^roduce similar symptoms, but are more irritating to the respiratory and urinary passages, causing coughing or strangury, or even nephritis. Creosote is wood tar minus the more poisonous phenols; its chief components are guaiacols and cresols. It is as strongly germicidal as carbolic acid, and less poisonous. Guaiacol lowers febrile temperatures when applied to the skin, but the effect is temporary and accompanied by much depression. Salicylic acid is less toxic to higher animals than phenol, which it almost equals in anti- septic power; it also inhibits the action of unorganised ferments. Salicylates act like salicylic acid, but are less irritating. The effects of salicylic acid on low organisms resemble those of quinine and phenol, but if much proteid be present the antiseptic action is inferior, probably from lack of penetration. Locally it produces necrosis of the epidermis, but is less corrosive than phenol. After ab- sorption, heaviness of the head and singing in the ears result. Large doses cause acid in- toxication, with a peculiar form of dyspnoea, like the "air hmiger" of diabetic coma; but, as Dr. Lees points out, this may be prevented by the simultaneous administration of double the amount of sodium bicarbonate. Delirium is not uncommon even after medicinal doses of salicylates. Htemoglobinuria or albuminuria may occur. Salicylic acid has also an antipyretic action ; it first stimulates and then enfeebles the heart, dilates the cutaneous vessels, and produces perspiration. It is a cholagogue and diuretic, and increases the output of uric acid, urea, and sulphur. Methyl salicylate, present in oil of winter- green, has the properties of a volatile oil, and after absorption produces the same effects as salicylic acid. Salol is decomposed in the alimentary canal into phenol and salicylic acid, and in large doses produces the symptoms of carbolic acid poisoning; it frequently causes