66 NITRITES containing gr. of nitroglycerin. Trinitrin is similar in action to amyl nitrite, but its effects are more persistent and slower in development. It is given in cases of heart disease associated with attacks of pain with the object of warding off the seizures. It is also of value in chronic kidney disease with high arterial tension, and in most of the conditions to which amyl nitrite is applicable.—Sodium Nitrite {Dose—1-2 grs.) and Potassium Nitrite {Dose 3-5 grs.; N.O.) are suitable for the same cases as nitroglycerin.— Erythrol Tetranitratb (Dose—^-1 gr.) is in- soluble, and is best given in tablet. It is preferred by some physicians because its action lasts longer than that of the other nitrites.— Liquor Ethyl Nitritis is given in doses of 20-60 m. Its action is that of the nitrites.— Spiritus ^Ethbris Nitrosi (sweet spirits of nitre) is a solution in alcohol of several sub- stances, including ethyl nitrite. It has a weak nitrite action. Dose—60-90 m. for a single dose; 20-40 m. if repeated. It is given as a mild diaphoretic and antipyretic in febrile attacks, and as a diuretic in chronic kidney disease. It is a frequent ingredient of prescrip- tions for heart disease with oedema, both for its diuretic effect and to guard the action of cardiac tonics. Nitro-.—In compound words nitro- as a prefix signifies relating to nitrogen, to the radicle NOg, or to the radicle NO {nitrosyl). N itrO-Ba.Cteria,. — Micro-organisms which convert ammonia into nitric and nitrous acid, e.g. in the process of nitrification in the soil. Nitrobenzoie or Nitrobenzene. —An intermediate product in the manufacture of aniline oil, known as oil of mirbane (artifi- cial oil of bitter almonds); it is a yellow oily liquid, has the formula of CgHjNOo, is obtained by mixing fuming nitric acid with benzene in a vessel kept cool by immersion in water, and may, if taken in quantity, prove fatal as a poison (nitrobenzolism). See Toxicology (Organic Poisons, Nitrobenzene); Trades, Dan- gerous {Aniline and Dinitrobenzene). Nitrocellulose or Nitrocellulin. See Pyroxylinum. NitrOg^en.—An inert, non-metallic ele- ment (symbol, N ; atomic weight, 14) which combines with hydrogen to form ammonia, with oxygen to form nitrous and nitric acid and other oxides, and with chlorine and bromine to form explosive compounds. See Air, Examination of {Ammonia) ; Mineral Waters {Simple Thermal Waters) ; Temperature {Fever, Increase in Nitrogen Excretion) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Nitrogeyious Constituents). Nitrog'luCOSe.—A substance prepared by the action of nitric and sulphuric acid on glucose; it has been used as a stimulant in doses of ;| to 1 minim of a 5 per cent solution. Nitrog^lycerin. See Nitrites {Nitro- glycerin). Nitrohydrochloric Acid. See Nitric Acid. NitromonaS.—A group of nitrifying bacteria. See Nitrification. NitromuriatiC Acid.— Nitrohydro- chloric acid. See Nitric Acid. Nitrous Oxide. See Anesthesia {Nitrous Oxide Gas); Teeth {Tooth Extraction, Ancesthesia). " Nizin."—A zinc salt of sulphanilic acid, recommended as an antiseptic in gonorrhoea, as a urethral or vaginal injection (2 to 6 grs. to 1 oz.), and in conjunctivitis as a lotion (1 gr. to 1 oz.). Noasthenia.—Mental debility (Gr. voos, mind, dcrOeveia, weakness). Nobel's Blasting: Oil. —Nitro- glycerine or trinitrin or glonoin oil. See Nitrites. NoCtambulatiOn. — Sleep-walking or somnambulism. See Sleep, Normal and Mor- bid {Somnambulism). Nocturnal.—Belonging to the night; e.g. nocturnal incontinence {see Micturition, In- continence), nocturnal epilepsy, etc. Nodal.—Belonging to a node; e.g. the nodal point in vision (" the point of intersection of convergent rays of light with the visual axis of the eye "), the nodal swellings or karyosomes in the structure of the nucleus of a cell, etc. Nodding: Spasm.—Spasmus nutans. See Head-Shaking ; Spasm {Nodding Spasm). Nodes. See Heberden's Nodes ; Physi- ology, Tissues {Nerve, Nodes of Ranvier) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Local Periostitis, Parrot's Nodes). Nodules.—Small nodes or swellings; e.g. the subcutaneous nodules of rheumatism {see Rheumatism in Children, Symptoms, Subcu- taneous Nodules), the nodules of Arantius or corpora Arantii of the semilunar valves of the heart, etc. Noema.—A thought (Gr. voe'w, I think). Noises. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Labyrinthitis from Exposure to Noises); Tinnitus Aurium ; etc. Noli-me-Tangere. — Eroding ulcera- tion, especially of the face ; lupus {q.v).