PALATE 227 the velum cannot be too loose. Sloughing is practically unknown. An excellent rule is to divide with a probe- pointed bistoury or scissors any structure which interferes with the free movement of the velum. In most cases it is necessary to prolong the lateral incision backwards by means of a probe- pointed bistoury through the soft palate just internal to the hamular process. Half the thickness of the palate ought to be divided, and the depth of the incision can, if necessary, be increased by the forefinger. If bleeding occurs, pressure will usually arrest it. Sometimes it is necessary to snick through the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces. As already mentioned, division of the mucous membrane passing from the soft palate into the nose must never be omitted. When the soft palate alone is cleft the opera- tion for its closure is known as Staphylorrhaphy. It differs from that described only in degree. The lateral incisions are not so extensive, and may be made after the sutures have been passed. The principles as regards the relief of tension are identical. After-Treatment.—The patient should be put to bed with the head low and turned to one side, so that blood and mucus will flow readily out of the mouth. The nurse or mother ought to be told that the child may vomit blood. If shock follow the operation, it is to be treated by appropriate measures. Feeding.—No food is to be given for four or five hours at least, it being important to avoid sickness. For the first four or five days the patient is fed on milk and soda-water, beef-tea, or beef-jelly by means of a spoon or rubber tube attached to a feeder. Small quantities are given at intervals, say, of two hours. After the fifth day, custards, puddings, and soaked bread may be allowed. No solid food ought to be permitted for at least a fortnight. The mouth is to be kept as clean as possible. After each feeding the child is to be given water to drink. The tendency of milk to remain in the mouth renders beef-tea and beef-jelly prefer- able. The wound may with advantage be swabbed with boro-glyceride two or three times a day if the child will allow it to be done. The patient is to be kept as quiet as possible, and not allowed to put the fingers into the mouth. The palate should not be examined for a week. If the case follows a satisfactory course, the patient may be allowed to get out of bed on the sixth day and be taken out of doors shortly afterwards. Removal of tiutnres.—The wounds at the side speedily granulate. The sutures are removed on the tenth to fourteenth day ; they may be left in for a longer period. An aucesthetic is usually necessary in children. It is better to remove all the sutures at one time. Complications.—Primary hoimorrhage occurs most freely when the lateral incisions are made, and sometimes after the incisions for relief of tension. The method of dealing with it has been described. Reactionary haemorrhage may occur in patients who have suffered from shock during the opera- tion. Pressure and cold will arrest it. The posterior palatine canal may have to be plugged. Secondary haemorrhage is due to sepsis, and is rare. It may be serious. It is to be treated by cold pressure, clearing away the clots, and plugging the posterior palatine canal with a probe or Horsley's wax. Sepsis is a serious complication as regards primary union. Loss of blood, rough handling, bruising with sponges, and a feeble constitution predispose. It is to be avoided by careful attention to the mouth before and after opera- tion, and treated by a spray of peroxide of hydrogen, by boro-glyceride, and other mild antiseptics. It may be arrested, but generally leads to partial or complete failure. Failure may be partial or complete. It is most likely to occur in wide clefts and when the palate is horizontal. The usual places for partial failure are at the junction of the hard and soft palate and anteriorly. Causes.—In spite of every care failure will occasionally occur, but the risk is diminished in proportion to the attention paid to the pre- paration for, and essentials of, the operation. General Conditions.—Measles, scarlet fever, thoracic or gastro-intestinal complications, severe colds. Local.—Defective operating is the common cause—the essentials for success have already been sufficiently emphasised.—Crying, vomiting, the patient putting the finger in the mouth, sepsis. Treatment.—Small holes, especially in the soft palate, frequently close of themselves. If union is doubtful, the removal of the sutures ought to be delayed until the third week. A small opening may be made to close by a touch with a hot wire. When failure is complete the sepsis ought to be dealt with. A second operation ought to be performed when the edges are granulating, usually in about a fortnight if the child be in good health. If the general condition be un- satisfactory, a further delay is necessary. Should the second operation fail, a third attempt may be made four or five months later. Voice Training.—It has been already pointed out that the treatment of cleft palate does not cease with a successful operation. The import- ance of voice training must be explained to the parents. Much care and patience is required, and the training, which has a twofold object— to develop the muscles of the palate by exercises and to correct the faulty habit of speech—has to be carried out for months, even years. The former is best attained by making the