PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 494 Between the fibres is (b) a more fluid material which may be called the nuclear plasma or karyoplasm. Digestion in the stomach removes the nuclear plasma, but leaves the network unacted upon. (2) Function^^ The part taken by the nucleus in the general life of the cell is not yet fully understood. \st. It exercises an in- fluence on the nutritive processes, since it has been observed in certain of the large cells in lower organisms that a piece of the protoplasm detached from the nucleus ceases to grow, and, after a time, dies. Important interchanges of material go on betvveen the nucleus and the protoplasm. 2nd. It is the great reproductive organ of the cell, probably playing an important part in transmitting inherited characters. Reproduction of Cells.—Cells do not go on growing indefinitely. When they reach a cer- tain size they generally either divide, to form two new cells, or they die and undergo de- generative changes. The reason of this is pos- sibly to be found in the well-known physical fact that, as a sphere increases in size, the mass increases more rapidly than the periphery. Hence, as a cell becomes larger and larger, the surface for nourishment becomes smaller and smaller in relationship to the mass of material to be nourished. Probably the altered meta- bolism so produced sets up the changes which lead to the division of the cell. These changes have now been very carefully studied in a large number of cells, and it has been shown that the nucleus generally takes a most important part in division. Mitosis.—In a cell about to divide, the first change is a general enlargement of the nucleus. At the same time the centrosome becomes double, and the two portions travel from one another, but remain united by delicate lines to form a spindle-shaped structure (Fig. 3, 1). The spindle passes into the centre of the nucleus, and seems to direct the changes in the reticu- lum. The nuclear membrane disappears, and the nucleus is thus not so sharply marked off" from the cell protoplasm. The nucleoli and nodal points also disappear, and with them all the finer fibrils of the network, leaving only the stouter fibres, which are now arranged either in a skein or as loops with their closed extremity to one pole of the nucleus and their open ex- tremity to the other. The nucleus no longer seems to contain a network, but appears to be filled with a convoluted mass of coarse fibres, and hence this stage of nuclear division is called the convoluted stage. The spindle continues to grow until it occu- pies the whole length of the nucleus. The two centrosomes are now very distinct, and from them a series of radiating lines extends out into the protoplasm of the cell. The nuclear loops of fibres break up into short, thick pieces; and these become arranged around the equator of the spindle in a radiating manner, so that when the nucleus is viewed from one end it has the appearance of a rosette or a conventional star. This stage of the pro- cess is hence often called the single star or monaster stage (Fig. 3, 2). Each loop now splits longitudinally into two, the divisions lying side by side (Fig. 3, 2). The next change consists in the separation 3. 4. Fig. 3.—Nucleus in mitosis : 1. Convoluted stage. 2. Monaster stage. 3. Dyaster stage, i. Complete division. from one another of the two halves of the split loops—one half of each passing up towards the one polar body, the other half passing towards the other. It is the looped parts which first separate and which lead the way—the open ends of the loops remaining in contact for a longer period, but, finally, also separating. In this way, around each polar body, a series of looped fibres gets arranged in a radiating manner, so that the nucleus now contains two rosettes or stars, and this stage of division is hence called the dyaster stage (Fig. 3, 3). The single nucleus is now practically double. Gradually in each half finer fibres develop and produce the reticular appearance. Nuclear nodes, nucleoli, and the nuclear membrane ap- pear, and thus two resting nuclei are formed from a single nucleus. Between these two nuclei a delicate line appears, dividing the cell in two, and the division is accomplished (Fig. 3, 4). The network of the nucleus of actively divid- ing cells is rich in nucleic acid, but in cells which have ceased to divide, in which the nucleus has ceased to exercise its great reproductive function, the amount of phosphorus — i.e. of nucleic acid—diminishes, and may be actually less than the amount in the cell protoplasm.