NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 29 less risk of permanent paralysis, and it has certain special effects upon the whole length of the stretched cord and upon the central nervous organs. The nerve to be operated upon is ex- posed as in neurectomy, and is then hooked up by a blunt hook, or, if large enough, by the surgeon's fingers, which form the best instru- ment for the purpose. Should an Esmarch's bandage be employed to assist in the discovery of the trunk it should now be removed, so as not to anchor its upper portion. Stretching is effected by a series of steady pulls made alternately upon each end of the nerve so as to drag upon its peripheral and central connections. The amount of force which can thus be used without rupture of the trunk is considerable, and will in practice be determined by the tactus eruditus of the operator rather than by the standards which have been determined. Such force should fall far below the breaking strain of the nerve, and as a rough guide we may note the following as the estimated breaking strains of certain trunks: sciatic, 100 to 160 lbs.; musculo-spiral, 80 lbs.; median, 60 lbs.; infra-orbital, 10 lbs.; supratrochlear, 5 lbs. Avulsion of nerves appears to combine the advantages of neurectomy with those of nerve stretching, but is, like the former, applicable only to sensory trunks; for the branches of the trigeminal it is certainly to be preferred to any other method. The affected nerve is exposed and picked up in the usual manner; it may then be firmly clamped with a pair of haemostatic forceps and drawn upwards so as to make firm traction on its peripheral ends; the latter are cut across as low as possible. This having been done, the nerve-trunk is drawn downwards, dissected out from its con- nections for some distance, and finally wrenched away from its central end. The removal of the cranial ganglia will be considered in connection with the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. Resection of the posterior spinal roots was first advocated by Bennett in England and by Abbe in America, and has been found useful in a few cases of severe neuralgia of the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses. It aims at curing the disease by allowing resection to be performed without interference with the essential motor roots, but as it is a severe opera- tion it should not be undertaken until all other measures, including nerve stretching, have failed. Laminectomy having been performed, the dura mater is laid open, and the posterior spinal roots are picked up and divided. The root with its ganglion may be entirely resected, which would give a greater certainty of cure of the neuralgia, but would probably leave a perma- nent anaesthesia. The means by which these various operations may be expected to cure neuralgia are as yet ill-defined. It is clear that such neuralgia may conceivably arise from lesions of the peripheral nerve endings, of the trunks themselves, or of the central organs. Were the first a common condition the division of the afferent tracts would certainly arrest the pain, and might be expected to prove permanently curative if regeneration were not associated with reattach- ment to the original peripheral terminations. Similarly, if the essential pathological lesion were in the nerve-trunk its division above the level of that lesion would prove effective. There is, however, little reason to suppose that the pathological basis of neuralgia is thus situated —or, at least, that it long remains thus circum- scribed,—and it is probable that in all cases central or ganglionic structures are concerned. The value of operations upon peripheral nerves thus becomes obscure. Certain factors in the problem are, however, fairly demonstrated. In the first place, wherever the lesion may be situated an afferent impulse appears necessary to evoke pain, and if that lesion be central we must suppose that all impulses are as it were translated into pain, but that some form of external stimulation is none the less a necessary element in the production of such pain. Nerve section unquestionably arrests all afferent im- pulses, and therewith arrests pain. For per- manent cure it is, however, necessary to affect also the central organs, and it is supposed that the operation does so either negatively by providing a period of complete rest from stimulation, or positively by producing some concurrent central change. That central changes in the minute anatomy of the nerve- cells do follow nerve section is now proved, and it can hardly be doubted that important physiological results follow such operations, and that they are productive of more than mere rest. Nerve stretching and a fortiori nerve avulsion are of more marked effect than mere section or excision. In the first place, the two former operations act upon branches which arise above the seat of traction, and thus the whole of a nerve-trunk, including the very highest of its branches, may be temporarily thrown out of action by a stretching operation performed comparatively low down in its course. Changes in the stretclied nerve are extensive, and include loosening of the sheath, tearing of its blood- vessels, congestion and slight inflammatory exudation, tearing of the nerve tubules, and degeneration followed by regeneration of those structures. Probably, also, sensitive nervi nervorum and their intraneural terminations are paralysed by this method (Marshall and Horsley), and again adhesions due to perineuritis will obviously be broken down. Lastly, the associated central organs have been found to present congestions and haemorrhages, while marked alterations occur in the nutrition of the ganglion cells. It is difiicult, if not impossible, to estimate