483 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION Prenatal development may be arrested, as in cleft-palate and hare-lip, visible remnants of the branchial clefts and other points. Occasionally supernumerary parts are de- veloped, such as rudimentary ears, extra fingers and toes. I have not found these and the like deformities much associated with defect of the brain. Development may be late for the age of the child: thus, the bony portion of the nose, the bridge and septum, are not much developed in the infant; the proportions of growth change later on, so that the feature becomes prominent when five or six years old. This forward growth of the nose may be delayed, not occurring till seven years or later, without disease ; such may be seen in several members of the same family. Teething is often delayed in children of back- ward development, and the third molars are often imperfectly developed. In all cases of delayed development it is advisable to take the weight and height, together with a few anthropo- metric measurements, for comparison with the normal of the age. Expression and movement in the face, and by gestures and attitudes of the head, limbs, and body, have most frequently been described as indicating emotions. The practitioner of medi- cine needs physical signs of action in the central nerve-system, such as may be observed singly or collectively ; he can thus proceed with his investigations, as when using physical signs indicative of a normal or subnormal state of the heart and lungs or other organs, interpreting what is seen, and making inferences from ob- servations. These nerve signs may be normal or subnormal; each must be recognised, that health and disorder occurring in varying degree may be appreciated. It is the neuro-motor signs of brain action that we study in expression. In describing any expression of brain status, as seen in movement, the part moving must be indicated, whether in the face or hand, etc., as well as the direction of the movement, and if possible its degree, also its relations to any antecedent obviously connected with it, such as a sensory stimulus. We should not speak of movement as voluntary, purposive, or in- telligent, but as following auditory or visual stimulus, repeated as formerly seen, apparently spontaneous, or in other terms indicating what we observe. The face in normal expression moves sym- metrically. In the forehead the frontal and corrugator muscles produce action, seen in the tone and wrinkling of the skin ; thus horizontal and vertical creases respectively are produced. Frowning (horizontal creases) may be fine or of coarse degree; it may occur spontaneously, mostly corresponding to an unoccupied and inert mental state, and is more common in boys than girls. This action may present an uniformly repeated movement, athetoid in character, re- curring spontaneously or following every stimu- lus. Knitting of the eyebrows (corrugation) may be a fine movement indicative of mental stress; it may also occur with frowning as a spontaneous or athetoid action. Muscular tone about the lower lid (orbicularis oculi) is present in a lively face ; it is increased in smiling, but lessened in fatigue, bodily or mentally, so that the lids look puffy or swollen, as is common accompanying migraine. Important items of expression are seen about the angles of the mouth, which move upwai'ds and outwards in smiling, with increase or duplication of the naso- labial grooves, or with convulsive spreading movement in laughter, or coarse repetitive action in grinning. Expression in the upper lip may be asymmetrical, uncovering the canine tooth, as in sneering, also during speech in a general paralytic, accompanied by tremor, and in the spasm of stammering which spreads in the face. The angles of the mouth are depressed in physical pain, the line of the lips being arched down- wards at the commencement of crying ; this ex- pression is antithetical to that of joyfulness, and there may be a struggle between the expression of the two emotions. Movements of the eyeballs, like other action, should be under control of the brain centres, and readily co-ordinated through sight or hear- ing as well as acquired habit. Expression in the size and reaction of the pupil is too large a subject to deal with here. Eye movements are often spontaneous when similar action is seen in the face and the hand. Well-controlled move- ments are seen when the eyes are easily directed in following a moving object without turning the head, and similarly in looking at and count- ing objects while the head is kept quiet. Spon- taneous eye movements characterise neurotic conditions and chorea; when chiefly upwards in direction they may indicate mental excite- ment ; lateral oscillations are often seen in mental emotion and in the insane, as apart from organic nystagmus. The hand, like the face, expresses brain action in its balance and movements. The hand when held out promptly, without extra movements, should balance straight, all parts in the same plane, without folding of the metacarpus or drooping of the thumb or fingers, while the arm is straight at the elbow and held on a level with the shoulder. This attitude expresses well- trained brain balance, while co-ordinated move- ments of the digits in response to direction or imitation, accurate in the time and degree of each act, whether in flexion or in lateral move- ments, as performed by the small intrinsic muscles of the hand, show good brain response. In nervous subjects the metacarpus is arched, and its bones drawn together, making it look narrow and concave on the palmar surface, while the knuckle-joints are extended backwards and the thumb bent outwards. This is often accom- panied by finger twitches, either flexor-extensor