215 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE if it be left alone being very high. Out of 19 cases of pressure-forceps left behind, 7 died, 6 shortly after operation. Sponges do deadly harm; out of 29 cases the sponge was found at the post-mortem in 19. Out of 31 cases, where the foreign body was a gauze pad or compress, the gauze was found after death in 7. When the patient lives unrelieved the fate of the foreign body is very uncertain. Sponges and drainage-tubes have slipped out of the abdominal wound at a dance, etc. A pressure-forceps has been passed at stool in 3 cases. As a rule the foreign body gets into the intestinal canal. Paralysis is rare, and seems nearly always due to embolism. In Schramm's case the pelvis was elevated at the operation, the patient was single and aged forty-four, the tumour a small adeno-carcinoma. Facial palsy and paralysis of the left arm occurred on the second day and gradually passed off during convalescence {Trans. Dresden Gynoec. Soc, Oct. 1899). Thrombosis.—The external saphenous vein is apt to get plugged if the patient leaves her bed too soon; the leg then swells considerably. Rest, bandaging, and elevation of the limb usually effect a cure. When thrombosis sets in early after a deep enucleation, or after any other complicated ovariotomy, the progress is very grave. At the worst thrombosis is un- common after ovariotomy, and much more frequent after any form of hysterectomy. Tetanus.—Sixty-four cases of this complica- tion were collected and tabulated by John Phillips in 1892. Martin and others have re- ported a few cases since that date. Asepsis is the true prophylactic against tetanus. Rashes are due to irritating perspiration, the contact of blankets against the skin, and soap and water enemata. The mottled rash in septic cases is a grave symptom. Jamidice, purely catarrhal, occurs in some patients during con- valescence. When associated with septic symp- toms it is extremely serious, but simple sallow- ness of the skin in mild septic cases is often mistaken for jaundice. Parotitis occasionally follows ovariotomy and other abdominal sections. Stephen Paget, Martin and Riitterman and others, have written on this complication. In a case in the author's practice the tongue was foul, and there were carious molars on the aflfected side. No sup- puration occurred. In some cases this complica- tion ends in periostitis and necrosis of the in- ferior maxilla. Acute Mania has been observed after ovari- otomy, but its relative frequency after that operation has been exaggerated. Barwell, Pozzi, Gaillard Thomas, and Butler-Smythe have written on the subject. As a rule the symptoms are mild, and unless the patient is predisposed to insanity ultimate cure is com- plete. Halliday Groom reports a case where the symptoms appeared on the third day, and death took place on the sixth. The operation was perfectly simple : the opposite ovary was healthy, and therefore not removed, and there was no evidence of sepsis. A distant relative was weak-minded. Mania follows other opera- tions ; it is not certain in these cases how far it is due to shock, and how far to removal of a particular organ, the ovary. Tumours of the Ovarian Ligament.—This ligament includes fibrous and muscular tissue, and anatomically and pathologically belongs to the uterus, but it may contain detached pieces of ovarian substance; the significance of this fact has been noted in the paragraphs on the Physiology of the Ovary. Clinically and surgi- cally, tumours of this ligament are ovarian rather than uterine. True fibromas of the ovarian ligament have been successfully re- moved by Doleris, Briggs, and the author. The tumour weighed over 16 lbs. in the author's case; the ovaries and uterus were free from anj' new growth. This case (and possibly others) has been included amongst pedunculated tu- mours of the broad ligament in tables prepared by Gross, Vautrin, and Lang. Penrose (New York) removed a tumour which he reports as a sarcoma of the ovarian ligament; it was stony hard (like a fibroma), and weighed 5 lbs. These tumours are easily removed; when large it is safer to take away the ovary as well, but in Doleris's case it was saved. Broad Ligament Cysts. — Dilated lymph spaces form irregular bullte, yellowish in colour and thin-walled. They are lined internally with endothelium, and when the broad ligament is divided, drain away. They are clearly due to obstruction, and are often very prominent in cases of large uterine fibroid. The author has twice opened a cyst in the broad ligament, which he found to contain several pints of a lymph-like fluid. In each case the cyst bur- rowed deeply into the broad ligament below the ovary, and was lined with endothelium, or rather consisted of endothelium lining a cavity, which was the result of the dilatation of a lymph space. Drainage was necessary in both cases, as the base of a cyst of this kind cannot be extirpated. The parovarian or simple hroad ligament cyst is much more familiar both to the operator and the pathologist. Its histogenesis has been and is still much disputed. Most observers consider that, like papillomatous cysts of the ovary, it arises from relics of the mesonephron. The parovarian cyst, however, arises from those relics which lie between the folds of the broad ligament, and constitute the parovarium. But Kossmann's theory has been noted already in the paragraph on Histogenesis of the Papillo- matous Cyst. He insists that the simple parovarian cyst, free from any trace of papillary growth, has nothing to do with the tubes of the parovarium, but rises from Miillerian