6 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF suggested that its presence is due to a hyper- excitability produced in the overlapping fibres of adjacent nerves. The difficult question of perception of sensation has also to be considered, and is best illustrated by the two following cases recently observed by the writer:— 1. A boy had division of the median nerve of many months' duration, was found by my house surgeon to be completely anfesthetic, and was sent to the operating theatre; there testing him, I found beyond all question both sensation and fair localisation in the affected area ; no operation was performed; two days later I found the same regions absolutely ansesthetic. 2. A man with fractured spine, crush of the Cauda equina, and complete ansesthesia in the distribution of the second sacral roots on both sides, of eight weeks' duration; laminectomy; on following day distinct sensation in aiTected cutaneous area; two days later anaesthesia was as before, and so remained imtil the case was lost sight of. There appears to be only one possible explana- tion of such cases, viz., that collateral branches enter the affected area, but that their stimula- tion is insufficient to evoke perception, unless the cerebral centres be rendered abnormally excitable by the mental stimulus of an impend- ing or recent operation. And, again, the im- mediate but evanescent return of sensation after primary suture is explicable by the view that before degeneration has occurred, the peripheral segment of the nerve may for a time convey an impulse or current up to the cut, and may there induce a second current in the central end by a mechanism similar to the paradoxical muscular contraction of the physiologists. On these and other grounds the primary union of divided nerves can hardly be regarded as proved to occur in man, although a few remarkable cases show beyond doubt that nerves of the size of the radial and ulnar may occasionally regain their functions within a few days after section. Secondary suture is a more complicated pro- cedure than is the primary operation. The limb being cleansed, a free incision is made over the course of the nerve, and the cut ends are sought for, a process often rendered very difficult by extensive cicatrisation and by the atrophy of the distal end. The use of Esmarch's bandage facilitates the discovery of the nerve, but as a rule the writer prefers to avoid it, as it tends to increase the extravasation of blood after closure of the wound ; if the incision be long, the ends of the nerve will generally be found in their anatomical relations at some distance from the scar, and their separation for a distance assists their subsequent adaptation. When the general cicatrix has been thoroughly cleared, the nerve ends are picked up lightly by their extreme tips and freshened by scissors, after which they are united as in primaiy suture ; it is to be remembered that one central end may have two or more distal divisions; also that the central end is large and bulbous, and contains the essential axis cylinders, while the distal ends are generally thin, and contain no vital nerve elements. The greater part of the central bulb must be cut away to expose fully the axis cylinders, but the more passive distal end should be spared as far as possible. Prognosis after secondary suture is said to be even better than after the primary operation, biit the time required for regeneration is often enormously long, sensation seldom returning in less than three or four months, while motion is usually deferred for twice that length of time. How long after the injury the operation holds out any prospects of success cannot be stated ;. but as good results have been obtained after eighteen years, no case need be rejected on account of its duration. After secondary suture cases of rapid and almost immediate recovery are also recorded, but much of the evidence is open to question. Plastic operatio7is are occasionally adopted in cases in which wide separation renders impossible the adaptation of cut nerves, but such operations are by no means highly successful. Phillipeau and Vulpian experimentally grafted a fragment of the lingual nerve into a gap in the hyper- glossal ; Gluck obtained recovery after grafting a rabbit's sciatic upon the fowl; two cut ends of the median have been attached to the intact ulnar with good effect; Tillmanns ingeniously turned down a flap from each of the two cut ends of the divided ulnar and median nerves, and thus obtained a continuous strand of ner- vous tissue. In all such cases the results appear to depend upon the provision of a guide for the down-growing axis cylinders of the central end, and thus recovery has been ob- tained by slipping the severed ends into a decalcified bone tube, or by uniting them by strands of catgut (Vanlair). Finally, on a different principle, the long bone of a limb has been shortened by resection in order to allow of approximation of the ends of divided nerve- trunks. TraUiMATic neuritis is a not very common condition which may result from injuries of nerve-trunks. In the majority of cases the primary injury has been comparatively slight, and consists of a contusion, puncture, or partial section, while the sufferer is generally the sub- ject of gout, rheumatism, syphilis, lead-poison- ing, or other similar constitutional condition. Of the pathology, little is known from direct observation ; but the disease appears to take the form of an acute, or, more commonly, of a chronic inflammation of the stroma of the nerve, which tends to ascend its trunk, and to cause irritation of and pressure upon its fibres. The disease generally manifests itself some weeks or months after a slight injiuy in the form of gradually increasing hypersesthesia and