498 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM mose with one another. They are composed of Elastin, a near ally of the proteins, which is insoluble both in cold and hot water, and is not acted on by acetic acid. It stains yellow with picric aci^, and has no affinity for carmine. (B) iWatrix. —■ This is composed of the miicus-like material which is so abundant in the foetal mucoid tissue. According to the arrangement of these fibres, and to the preponderance of one or other variety, various types of fibrous tissue are produced. When a padding is required, as under the skin and imder mucous membranes, the fibres are arranged in a loose felt work to constitute areola^' tissue. In fascia, in tendon sheaths, and in Jlat tendons, the fibres are closely packed together to form more or less definite layers. In tendons and ligaments the fibres run parallel and close together. In ordinary tendons, where no elasticity is required, the fibres are of the white or non-elastic variety. In liga- ments where elasticity is desirable the elastic fibres preponderate. II. The spaces of fibrous tissue vary with the arrangement of the fibres. In the loose areolar tissue under the skin they are very large and irregular, in fascia they are flattened, while in tendon, where the fibres are in parallel bundles, they are long channels. III. The cells of fibrous tissue (Fibroblasts) vary greatly in shape. In the young tissue they are elongated spindles, from the ends of which the fibres extend. In some of the loose fibrous tissues they retain this shape, but in the denser tissues they get squeezed upon, and are apt to be flattened and to develop processes thrust out into the spaces. In certain situations, peculiar modifications of Fibroblasts are to be found— (A) Endothelium.—When these cells line the larger connective - tissue spaces they become flattened, and form a covering membrane, called an endothelium. Such a layer lines all the serous cavities of the body, and the lymphatics, blood-vessels, and heart, which are all primarily large connective - tissue spaces. To demonstrate the outlines of these cells it is necessary to stain with nitrate of silver, which has a special affinity for the interstitial substance, and which thus forms a series of black lines between the cells. (B) Fat Cells. — In the areolar tissue of many parts of the body fat makes its appearance in the cells round the smaller blood-vessels, and when these cells occur in masses Adipose Tissue is produced. Little droplets of oil first appear, and these become larger, run together, and finally form a large single globule, distending the cell, and pushing to the sides the protoplasm and nucleus as a sort of capsule (Fig. 10), If the animal be starved, the fat gradually disappears out of the cell, and in its place is left a clear albuminous fluid which also dis- appears, and the cell resumes its former shape. FIO. 10.- -Fat cells stained with osmic acid, and lying alongside a small blood-vessel. The fats are esters usually of the triatomic alcohol glycerin— (OH CgH.JoH I OH by the replacement of the hydrogen of the hydroxyl molecules by the radicles of the fatty acids. The most abundant fatty acids of the body are :— Palmitic Acid, Ci6H3iO,OH Stearic Acid, CisHgg'OjOH Oleic Acid, CigHjgCOH; and from these the three fats— Palmitin, C3H5(0,Ci6H3iO)3 = CsiHggOe Stearin, C^}lr,{0,C^^Yi^f>\ = Q^TR^^^O^ Olein, C3H,(0,CisH330)3 = C,,n,,f>, are produced. It will be observed that the molecules of these fats are very rich in carbon and hydrogen, and very poor in oxygen—i.e. they contain a large amount of material capable of being oxi- dised, and thus capable of affording energy in the process of combustion. The fats resemble one another in being in- soluble in water, but soluble in ether, and in hot alcohol. As the alcohol cools, they separate out as crystals. They differ from one another in their melting point, palmitin melting at the highest and olein at the lowest temperature. Fat which is rich in palmitin and stearin, as ox fat, is thus hard and solid at the ordinary temperature of the air, while fats rich in olein, as dogs' fats, are semi-fluid at the same tem- perature. The olein acts as a solvent for the fats of a higher melting point. The functions of adipose tissue are twofold :— \st. Mechanical.—The mass of adipose tissue