PHARYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS 469 condition of the pharynx, apart from the mani- festations of the exanthemata, such as measles, scarlet fever, smallpox, typhoid and typhus fever as well as syphilis, and also apart from catarrhal conditions occasioned by traumatic and toxic influences, is a very rare condition, and, therefore, can hardly be held responsible for the lesions in this region grouped under the term " Chronic Pharyngitis," which are of such common occurrence. Although it is not the intention in this article to discuss acute pharyngitis, it seems necessary to the writer to make this preliminary reference to it, inasmuch as the acute and chronic con- dition has come to be, in his opinion, erroneously placed in a causal relationship, whereas, in a very large majority of cases, acute pharyngitis is merely a lighting up of a chronic morbid process. In order to understand the etiology of chronic pharyngitis with a view to the treatment of the affection, it is important to bear in mind that although the oro-pharynx cannot be readily separated from the naso-pharynx, the former is really part of the alimentary canal, and the latter part of the respiratory tract. Speaking generally, when the stress of the affection is mostly upon the oro-pharynx, it is not uncom- monly a manifestation of gastric disturbance, whereas, if the upper part of the pharynx is mainly involved, a cause may be found in the nasal cavities; at times the condition may be an extension by continuity from disease of neighbouring structures, such as the tonsils. Indiscretions in diet, excessive use of alcohol and tobacco, and of irritating articles of food, such as condiments, must be mentioned amongst the foremost causes of chronic pharyngitis. At the same time, it would be erroneous to sup- pose that the pharyngeal mucous membrane becomes affected by the direct application of alcohol and irritating articles of food; the his- tory usually points to a gastritis existing before the pharyngitis is developed, the latter being really evidence of the former. So also in the case of excessive tobacco-smoking, it is probable that the pharyngitis is secondary to the absorp- tion of nicotine, and is subsequently aggravated by a continuance of the excess. Constipation, cardiac disease, general excesses, and all conditions giving rise to venous con- gestion, are predisposing causes of chronic pharyngitis. When the disease affects the upper pharynx, it is not imcommonly associated with a chronic naso-pharyngeal catarrh, and is indirectly due to some form of obstruction in the nasal passages. The extension of the process to the lower pharynx is probably due quite as much to the constant hawking by the patient, in his endeavour to get rid of an accumulation of mucus or muco-pus, which owing to its tenacious character is dislodged with difficulty, as it is to secretion tracking over the mucous membrane. In pharyngitis sicca the atrophied condition of the pharyngeal mucosa probably has a cause in common with a similar condition met with in the nose, and with which it is often associated. The dried and adherent secretion acts directly as a cause in the localised pharyngitis. Any form of nasal obstruction, which necessi- tates mouth breathing, is indirectly a factor in chronic pharyngitis, occurring in persons ex- posed to an atmosphere charged with dust and irritating particles. Dental caries of an extensive and active nature is so commonly met with in examining throats that it is difficult to assess its import- ance in the etiology of chronic pharyngitis. When the two have been associated to a marked degree, nasal obstruction with mouth breathing has also been present, and I am inclined to look upon the latter as a causation factor common to the two. Excessive use of the voice is commonly stated to be one of the causes of this disease, and is put forward as an explanation of the hyper- trophic variety met with amongst professional voice users. It is difficult to accept this ex- planation ; the paralytic state of the pharyngeal muscles resulting from a pharyngitis already established, impairs the use of the pharynx as a resonance chamber, and in order that the walls of the pharynx may be adjusted to carry the voice to a distance a strain is necessitated. It would, therefore, seem that, on the contrary, chronic pharyngitis may be a cause of excessive use of the voice, and that the latter does not produce bvit only aggravates the former. Improper iise of the voice, on the other hand, may lead to chronic changes in the walls of the pharynx. But in estimating or treating faulty voice production as a cause, we must not overlook the fact that professional voice users are exposed to vitiated atmospheres, late hours, and irregularities in diet, and that physiological transgressions are often as much responsible as transgressions of natural limits of normal registers of voice. Certain diatheses, such as that of scrofula, antemia, tuberculosis, syphilis, are usually men- tioned in discussing the etiology; I am inclined to think that these causes, as well as the arthritic diatheses, play a less important part in the disease than is commonly believed. Diabetes and myxoedema have both been brought under my notice by the pharyngeal conditions complicating these diseases. The most marked case of pharyngitis sicca I have seen occurred in a diabetic who sought relief solely for the disease of the throat. The atrophied and dried condition of the mucous membrane completely involved the entire pharynx, and extended over the mucous mem- brane of the posterior third of the larynx. In