PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 509 muscle be cooled, the various periods are pro- longed. At first the contraction becomes greater and more powerful, but as the cooling process goes on it becomes less and less, until finally the most powerful stimuli produce no effect. Cooling has thus practically the same effect as fatigue (Fig. 24). 4. Many drugs modify muscular contrac- tions, e.g. veratrin enormously prolongs the relaxation period. 5. Strength of Stimuht,s.-—A stimulus must have a certain intensity to cause a contraction. The precise strength of this minimum stimulus depends upon the condition of the muscle. The application of stronger and stronger stimuli causes the muscular contraction to become more and more rapid, more and more complete, and more and more powerfvil. But increase in the contraction is not proportionate to the increase in the stimulus. If the stimulus is steadily increased, the increase in contraction becomes less and less. This may be represented dia- grammatically in the accompanying figure, where the continuous lines represent the strength of the stimuli and the dotted lines the extent of the contractions (Fig. 25). St. 1/ ! 1 1 1 J 1 1 L 1 1 1 1 1 J 1 1 1 1 1 Con. 6 Fig. 25.—Influence of increasing tlie strength of the stimulus upon the contraction of skeletal muscle. St., the stimulus ; Con., the resulting contraction. A, a subminimal stimulus ; B, theminimum adequate stimulus; C, the optimum stimulus. After a certain strength of stimulus has been reached, further increase of the stimulus does not cause any increase in the muscular con- traction. This smallest stimulus which causes the maximum muscular contraction is called the optimum stimulus. Increasing the strength of the stimulus shortens the latent period, but lengthens the periods of contraction and relaxation. 6. Resistance to Contraction—Weight to be Lifted.—Starting from the extent of muscular contraction without any load it is found that small weights attached to the muscle actually increase the extent of contraction, but that greater weights diminish it, until finally, when a sufficient weight is applied, the muscle no longer contracts at all, but may actually slightly lengthen, because its extensibility is increased during contraction (Fig. 26, a). The application of weights to a muscle causes the latent period and period of contraction to be delayed, while it renders the period of relaxa- tion more rapid, and an over-extension may be produced followed by a recovery resembling a small after-contraction (Fig. 26, b). 7. Electroto7ius.—As already explainea, the passage of a galvanic current through a muscle decreases its contractility at the anode and increases it at the kathode. 8. Successive Stimuli.—So far, we have con- sidered the influence of a single stimulus on Fig. 26.—Influence of load on a muscular contraction, o, The effect of increasing the load on the extent of contraction ; 6, the effect of load on the course of contraction. the shape of muscle. But in nearly every muscular action the contraction of the muscles must last much longer than j^th of a second. How is this continued contraction of muscles produced 1 To understand this it is necessary to study the influence of a series of stimuli on muscle. If, to a frog's muscle which takes yV^h of a second to contract and relax, stimuli at the rate of five per second are applied, it is found that a series of simple contractions, each with an interval of yg-^h of a second between them, is produced (Fig. 27, 1). If the stimuli follow one another at the rate of ten per second, a series of simple contractions is still produced, but now with no interval between them. If stimuli be sent more rapidly to the muscle, say at the rate of twelve per second, the second stimulus will a contraction before the contraction due to the first stimulus has entirely passed off (Fig. 27, 2). The second contraction will thus be super- imposed on the first, and it is found that the second contrac- tion is more complete than the first, and the third than the second. But while the second contrac- tion is markedly greater than the first, the third is not so markedly greater than the second, and each succeeding stimulus causes a less and less increase in the degree of contrac- tion until, after a certain number, no further increase takes place, and the degree of con- traction is simply maintained. Fig. 27. — Effect of a series of stimuli on skeletal muscle. (See text.)