PEEICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 410 Prognosis. — The prognosis is always very- serious, but there are reasonable grounds for hope in cases where the suppuration is not part of a general septic infection, but is a sequela of an empyaema or other localised abscess. The earlier the diagnosis is made and surgical interference is sought, the better will be the chance of recovery. The percentage of re- coveries is, however, very small. Treatment.—Abscess in the pericardium must be treated like any other abscess. It should be opened and drained under antiseptic pre- cautions as soon as the diagnosis of suppuration is made. Hydropbricardium.—By hydropericardium is meant, effusion of serous fluid into the peri- cardial the result, not of inflammation, but of passive dropsical transudation. A cer- tain amount of clear serous fluid, varying from half an ounce to three ounces, is commonly found in the pericardial sac post-mortem, the effusion probably taking place during the act of dying. During life hydropericardium, or effusion of such degree as to be clinically recognisable, occurs most commonly as part of a general dropsical transudation from whatever cause, and is therefore most frequently associated with Bright's disease or morbus cordis. It is much less common than effusion into other serous cavities, and when present is a late feature in the disease, and is gradual in onset. It is said also to occur as the result of mechanical obstruction, to the return of blood from the pericardial and cardiac veins from some local cause, such as pressure by mediastinal tumoui'S, enlarged glands, or fibrous adhesions, but this must be very exceptional. A more rapid and acute serous eff"usion into the pericardium may sometimes take place in acute nephritis. The fluid consists of serum, and is usually pale yellow in colour and clear, but may be turbid from the presence of desquamated epi- thelium and leucocytes, and is sometimes blood- stained. Symptoms and Physical Signs and Diagnosis. —The symptoms are increasing dyspnoea and prsecordial oppression with enfeeblement of the pulse, but as they will usually be present to a varying degree, as a result of the pre-existing disease with which the condition of hydroperi- cardium is associated, they are not characteristic. The physical signs are those of pericardial effusion, increase of the area of cardiac dulness, with progressive enfeeblement of the apex beat and weakness of the heart-sounds ; but as there is no antecedent friction rub to call attention to the possibility of eff"usion, it may readily escape notice in the earlier stages. The diagnosis cannot be made unless the effusion amounts to several ounces, and when there is eftusion into one or both pleural cavities as well, it is very difficult, and may be impossible. Treatment.—Practically the treatment is that of the original disease to which the general dropsy and hydropericardium are due. Relief may occasionally be afforded by aspiration of the pericardium when the diagnosis of effusion can be made with certainty; but it is rarely employed or called for, as the relief can but be temporary, and does not long delay the fatal result. Pneumopericardium.—The presence of gas in the pericardial sac is rare. It may be due to penetrating wounds of the pericardium by a sharp instrument or a fractured rib, but is more commonly the result of ulceration, by which a communication is established between the pericardial sac and an air-containing cavity. Thus, an old phthisical cavity, an abscess in the lung, a pneumothorax, a subphi'enic abscess that has made its way through the diaphragm, may open into the pericardium, or a communi- cation may be established with the oesophagus by ulceration, giving rise in each instance to pneumopericardium. Pus may find its way into the pericardium, with the air giving rise to pyo-pneumopericardium, or blood in the case of punctured wounds, when the condition is termed hsemo - pneumopericardium. The en- trance of gas into the pericardium is always attended by inflammation, most commonly of a septic character, so that pyo-pneumopericardium is the usual result. The gases most frequently found in addition to air are sulphuretted hydrogen and carbon disulphide, but these are only found as a result of putrefaction. The gas may distend the pericardium, and always rises to the highest part of the cavity with change of posture of the patient. Physical Signs. — Uniform bulging of the prsecordial area may be noted. The apex beat is usually absent or feeble, but can sometimes be felt when the patient bends forwards. On 2Jercussio7i the note varies with change of position, being dull over the fluid- and tym- panitic or high pitched over the air-containing cavity. The relations of the gas and fluid will be remarkably altered by changes of posture, and can be readily made out by percussion. On auscultation the heart-sounds acquire a peculiar metallic character, and are unusually loud and clear, so that they may sometimes be heard at some distance off', and are a source of annoyance to the patient himself. Splashing sounds, and metallic tinkling, and a bell note with coins can usually be heard. Treatment.—As pneumopericardium is usually a complication of some grave disease, treatment must vary accordingly. Aspiration may be required to remove the gas or fluid, or possibly free incision may be necessary to allow of the escape of pus. New Growths of the Pericardium.—Primary