ONEIDA COMMUNITY 170 Oneida Community.—A colony in the United States in which promiscuity and coitus reservatus seem to have been practised. Oneiro-.—In compound words oneiro- (Gr. ovetpo^, a dream) means relating or belonging to a dream; e.g. oneirodi/nia (a painful dream), oneironosus (morbid dreaming), etc. On ions. See Invalid-Feeding (Vegetables, Onions). Onomatomania.—A morbid fear of words or of one particular word, or a morbid impulse to repeat a certain word or a painful effort to recollect a word. Ontario. See Balneology {America and Canada). Ontogeny or Ontog^enesis.—The development of the organism in contrast to the evolution of the race {Phylogeny). O n y C il at rO p h y. — Atrophy of the nails, in contrast to onychauxis or their hyper- trophy. See Nails, Affections of {Atrojyhy, Hypertrophy). Onychia or OnyctlitiS. — Inflam- mation and ulceration of the matrix of the nail. See Nails, Affections of {Onychia Maligna, Syphilis, etc.); Syphilis {Affections of Hair and Nails, Onychia and Paronychia). Onycho-.—In compound words onycho- (Gr. ow^, a nail) means relating to the nails; e.g. onychoclasis (fracture of the nail), onycho- cryptosis (ingrowing of the nail), onychoptosis (shedding of the nails), etc. OnycilOg^raph.—A digital sphygmo- graph for recording the pulsations of the vessels of the nail-bed, e.g. Waller's. See Pulse {Digi- tal Sphygniographs). Onychogrryposis or Onycho- g'ryphOSiS.—Claw-like deformity of the nails, with thickening and ridging. See Nails, Affections of {Hypertrophy). Onychomycosis.—Disease of the nail due to fungi, e.g. favus. See Nails, Affections OF {Parasitic Diseases). Onychophag^y. — Nail-biting. See Nails, Affections of {Injuries). Onychorrhexis.—Splitting of the nails. See Nails, Affections of {Atrop^hy). Onyg^ena Equina. See Skin, Para- sites {Introductioti). Onyx.—A form of hypopyon or collection of pus between the layers of the cornea; literally, a nail or nail-like growth. Oo-.—In compound words oo- (Gr. laov, an egg) means relating to the ovum or an egg, e.g. oocyte (the ovum before maturation). Ooblast.—A cell of the germinal epithe- lium, from which an ovum arises. OOCephaiUS.—A teratological type in which the head is egg-shaped; it has characters in common with both cyclopia and cebocephalus. Oog^Onia.—The direct descendants of the primitive germ cell, from which arise the oocytes (ova before maturation). Oolemma.—The zona pellucida of the ovum. Oophorectomy.—Removal of the ovaries, especially when these organs are not the subjects of gross lesions, with the purpose of causing a cessation of menstruation ; Battey's operation. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Treatment of Inoperable Cases of Cancer); Menstruation and its Disorders {Amenorrhoea); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment of {Organo- therapy). Oophorin.—A preparation obtained from the ovaries of animals {e.g. the cow). See OVARIN and OVARIIN. Oophoritis. — Inflammation of the ovaries. iiee Ovaries, Diseases of {Inflam- mation). OophorO-.—In compound words oophoro- {oophoron, the parenchymatous part of the ovary) means relating to the ovary, e.g. oopho- rectomy {q.v.). Oophorocele.—Hernia of the ovary. Oo p h oro h yste recto m y.—Removal of the uterus and ovaries. OophOroman ia.—Ovarian insanity. Oophoron. — The ovary, especially the cortex or parenchymatous portion in contrast to the medulla or paroophoron. Oo p h OrOSal p i n g^i t is.—Inflammation of the ovaries and the Fallopian tubes. Oophorrhaphy.—Fixation of the ovai-y to the pelvic wall. Oosperm.—The fertilised ovum, or the ovum after it has got rid of the polar bodies and fused with the spermatozoon. Open-Air Treatment. See Lung, Tuberculosis of {Treatment, Prophylactic). Open-Door System. — The asylum treatment of insanity with unlocked doors. Open Spaces Act.—in 1887 an Act was passed, named the 02)en Spaces Act, which gave to sanitary authorities the power " to ac