305 PARALYSIS medulla are affected independently of the upper or cortical neurones, and that there is not a direct extension of the degeneration from the upper to the lower neurones. So, too, in that the cell is the part of the neurone that preserves the nutrition of the whole unit, it is easy to understand why, with gradual decay of the neurone, the part farthest from the cell should first show signs of death, and that accordingly the axones commence to degenerate . at their most distal part. This is the way in which degeneration of the pyramidal tract in the spinal cord and medulla is to be accounted for, when no demonstrable evidences of de- generation are detected in the pyramidal cells of the sensori-motor cortex of the brain. Symptoms.—In that the clinical picture of the disease is diff'erent according as the neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, those of the bulbar nuclei, or those of the sensori- motor cortex, are affected, the symptomatology of the three forms deserves separate descriptions. Progressive Muscular Atrophy.—The onset of this aff'ection is, as a rule, without numb- ness, pain, or other subjective sensations. The patient gradually develops weakness, with mus- cular atrophy, usually in the upper limbs, and most frequently the small muscles of the hands are first affected. Weakness of the thumb is usually the first defect noticed, movements such as are necessary for picking up a pin or in buttoning the clothes become difficult and eventually impossible, and before long the patient may recognise that the ball of the thumb is flat on one side as compared with the other. If the patient comes under observa- tion at this stage of the illness, atrophy of the thenar eminence and weakness of the move- ments of the thumb, notably those of abduction and opposition, can be determined. If it has not preceded the atrophy of the thenar muscles, as is most common, there soon follows hollowing of the space between the thumb and index finger, as viewed from the back of the hand. This is due to wasting of the first dorsal in- terosseous muscle, in consequence of which the index finger cannot be properly abducted from the middle finger. The other interossei also waste, so that the spaces between the meta- carpal bones all show a variable degree of hollowing, proportional to the degree of atrophy that has resulted, while movements of abduction and adduction of the fingers are feeble. The hypothenar eminence also becomes flat owing to atrophy of the muscles of this part of the hand, and abduction of the little finger is weak. If the interossei become markedly atrophied before the long extensors and flexors of the fingers are affected the r/iam en griffe results, for the interossei, when normal, flex the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and extend them at the phalangeal joints, so that when they are paralysed the long extensors and flexors bring about over-extension at the metacarpo- phalangeal joints and flexion at the phalangeal joints, and the hand thus assumes a claw shape. If the lumbricales be also atrophied the flexor tendons stand out prominently in the palm of the hand, owing to the great hollowing that results. Although the muscular atrophy begins on one side it always becomes bilateral, so that it is rare for many months to elapse before similar symptoms appear on the side that is not at fii'st affected ; moreover, the affection is, as a rule, symmetrical as well as bilateral, indentical parts being attacked on the two sides. As the disease progresses the muscles of the forearm next become atrophied, and the flexors usually succumb before the extensors. The deltoid is next involved, and the shoulder loses its rounded contour and becomes flat, while in advanced cases a depression appears beneath the outer end of the acromion process. The supra- and infra-spinati become atrophied about the same time, and the subscapularis and teres major and minor soon share their fate, as do the biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus. The serratus magnus usually becomes aff'ected, in consequence of which the vertebral border of the scapula projects when the arm is raised to the horizontal line in front of the patient. The upper or clavicular portion of the pectoralis major as a rule wastes, as do the trapezius and rhomboids; but it is noteworthy that the trapezius is only affected in so far as its middle and lower portions are concerned, the upper part of the muscle practically always escapes— a fact that led Duchenne to speak of it as the nltimum moriens. The levator anguli scapulse commonly escapes, and the latissimus dorsi, lower half of the pectoralis major, and triceps are almost always unaffected. The neck muscles may become atrophied and weak, though the sterno-mastoid usually escapes and the platysma myoides is never aff'ected. The muscles at the back of the neck, as a rule, suff'er more than those in front, so that the head falls forward, and the chin rests against the upper part of the sternum; but the patient can jerk the head unduly backwards, and can then balance it in this position on the spine. The intercostal muscles commonly suff'er in the later stage of the aff'ection, and they may become completely paralysed, in which case respiration is carried on by the diaphragm alone; but, on the other hand, it may be the diaphragm that is chiefly aff'ected, in which case the patient has to depend on the inter- costals for the preservation of life. How pre- carious the patient's existence may be at this stage of the malady may be gathered from the fact that the intercostals rarely escape entirely even when there is a pi-eponderating weakness of the diaphragm. Less commonly the ab- dominal muscles become atrophied and weak.