PERITONEUM -ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 430 ment to the ribs. Very often the pleural cavity overlaps the displaced diaphragm to the extent of several inches. In such cases, if the condition of the patient will allow, the lower end of the parietal pleura may be stitched to the chest-wall, and the wound plugged with iodoform gauze for twenty-four to thirty-six hours, until adhesion has formed to a sufficient extent to allow the surgeon to cut straight through the diaphragm. If after removing a piece of rib it is seen that the pleural cavity is normal, the surgeon should extend the section in a downward direction until the point of reflection of the pleura is seen. The pleura may then be pushed up, and gauze packed tightly in the upper part of the wound. If immediate evacuation of pus is necessary the diaphragm may be incised, the pus quickly removed, and the edges of the incised diaphragm stitched to the edges of the wound. The risk of infecting the pleural cavity is by no means a slight one; it is not due so much to the pus escaping into the pleural cavity at the time of the operation as to the soaking of pus into the surrounding tissues within the few hours suc- ceeding the operation, especially if drainage from the abscess cavity is not quite free, or if the upper part of the wound, in the region of the pleura, is not carefully and thoroughly packed with iodoform gauze. There is one consolation for the surgeon, viz., secondary in- fection of the pleura is common in subphrenic abscess, even before operation, so that if the germs have reached the pleura before the surgeon, nothing the latter can do is likely to prevent the development of an empyema. The following rules may be worth remembering in dealing with the surgery of subphrenic abscess : (1) When pus has been discovered by the ex- ploring needle at a certain spot an incision should be made with that spot as its centre ; (2) If 710 pus has been obtained by the needle, make a careful exploratory operation through a 4-inch incision over the tenth rib in the mid- axillary line ; (3) If 7io great urgency, pack the exposed pleura or pleural cavity with sterilised gauze, and wait twenty-four to thirty-six hours before incising the diaphragm; (4) If evacua- tion of the pus is urgent, try and expose the lower reflection of pleura, push it upwards from the ribs and pack tightly with gauze, incise diaphragm, and stitch it to the skin, insuring free drainage. 2. Ahscess around Appendix.—Owing to the inconstant position of the appendix the situation of the abscess is, of course, variable. Usually it is in the right iliac fossa, with the caecum on its outer side; sometimes it is wholly within the pelvis; it may be to the left side of the median line, in the iliac region. An important situation is sulnnesenteric, the abscess being limited above by the oblique line of the mesen- teric attachment—viz., from the right sacro- iliac synchondrosis to the left side of the second lumbar vertebra—below it reaches the hollow of the sacrum, being variably limited by coils of the small gut; to the right side is the csecum ; in front the mesentery itself and numerous coils of gut form the boundary, so that the general peritoneal cavity is exposed after cutting through the abdominal wall. Treatment.—1. The usual Type of Abscess.— When there is a dull area in the iliac fossa the incision should be made over the spot of maxi- mum dulness. The cutting should be done carefully, so that any weak adhesions may be left in order to keep the pus from spreading. Iji all cases the whole of the pus should be re- moved at once and the cavity thoroughly tvashed out. If the appendix can be easily got at it should be excised; as a rule, however, it forms a part of the abscess wall and can neither be felt nor seen. There is often a fsecal concretion present, which usually escapes through the gan- grenous aperture in the appendix, and it is important to try and get hold of this. If it does not come out with thorough flushing, I have found that a blunt Volkmann's spoon, very gently used, is generally efficient. A good- sized drainage-tube is then placed at the bottom of the cavity and packed round with iodoform gauze. The latter should be changed every twenty-four hours, and the cavity gently irri- gated ; but it is wiser to leave the tube in situ without disturbing it, and gradually shorten its outer end as the contracting cavity pushes the tube outwards. 2. The Sidtmesenteric Abscess.—An incision is made over the maximum spot of dulness which, when the patient is well under the influence of chloroform, is generally found to be near the middle line, so that in most of these abscesses a median incision is the best. The general cavity of the peritoneum is usually opened up, but there may be some slight adhesions. Having carefully plugged the wound with iodoform gauze, by gentle manipula- tion an entry is made with the finger into the abscess cavity, which should be at once flushed out and then thoroughly sponged out so that as little as possible is left behind. A drainage tube is then inserted packed round with gauze, and if the condition of the patient is favourable the dressing may be left for two days without being changed so that adhesions may become definitely formed. Provided precaution is taken against the spreading of the pus into the general peritoneal cavity both during the opera- tion and afterwards, these cases do remarkably well. Abscess in the Pelvis.—These are very difficult to drain from any abdominal incision, and may be better reached through the ischio-rectal fossa on the right side. An incision is made midway between the anus and the ischial tuberosity, and the tissue of the fossa is thoroughly incised