OCULAR MUSCLES nystagmus, paretic muscle nystagmus, and that connected with spinal and cerebellar lesions. In regard to the first of these, we have combined the three evil influences of general bodily fatigue, local fatigue, and insufficient illumina- tion. The rapidity of movement is usually great in miner's nystagmus, and it may only be elicited by causing the patient to assume his particular trade-position or to look upwards. Convergence to a near object is vastly more difficult when the object is above the level of the eyes, as it often may be in colliery work, in which case it may be oveiiooked in the course of an examination not sufficiently minute. In the nystagmus of paretic muscle we see the follow- ing condition sometimes:—A muscle has been paralysed, but is perhaps recovering; but on getting the patient to look steadily to an object, so held as to necessitate the weak muscle being kept actively innervated, presently the eye will begin to make slight oscillatory movements, which are apt to become more marked than at first. It is exactly analogous to the tremulous- ness of one's hand after carrying a weight, and is not of any great importance clinically. The lesion of the cord most frequently connected with nystagmus is disseminated sclerosis, though it occurs with others also. This, it must be carefully noted, has no connection with any visual lesion ; there may be troublesome nystag- mus while yet the vision is as good as ever it was. In the muscular nystagmus the patient is apt to suffer from an annoyance from which he is free in the case of either infantile or other " visual" forms, namely, the apparent move- ment of the object looked at as the image falls upon different nerve terminations with the unstable condition of the eyes ; this is apt to give rise to much annoyance to the patient. The treatment of nystagmus resolves itself into the treatment of the original cause of the instability rather than of the condition itself. Sometimes this is simple enough. Thus, in congenital cataract, should nystagmus be de- veloping, operation should at once be performed so as to allow of the macular placing of images. If this can be accomplished so that the patient can learn to fix even one macula upon the object looked at, the development of nystagmus may be checked. Similarly, in cases of ophthalmia neonatorum we are sometimes obliged to perform an optical iridectomy in a very young patient, in order, in this way, to prevent the permanent establishment of instability of the eyes. In the case then of infantile nystagmus, should the cause of the defective sight be amenable to treatment, to attack it is to attack the nystag- mus. In the case of miner's nystagmus, and those of this class, the patient must at once, and for good, relinquish the work which is producing the muscle-fatigue from which this results. The first essential is to have the patient to work in daylight, and out of the ABTECTIONS OF 149 necessarily constrained attitudes essential in coal-getting. Beyond this, and attention to sobriety and the general health, nothing is required. The prognosis is good provided health be sound, the case is caught early, and the objectionable work given up. Sometimes the patient comes to one while yet nystagmus arises in certain positions ow^y, and when that is the case the prospect of improvement and cure is manifestly much brighter than when nystagmus has come to exist in any and every attitude. No direct treatment is called for in the cases of spinal and cerebellar nystagmus, nor in those of the slow nystagmus from blindness. In many children with " causeless" nystagmus from infancy, that is, nystagmus with no visible change in the fundus or media, there is a distinct tendency to self-cure, and as years pass on, the constancy, rapidity, and excursion of the nystagmus all diminish, even to vanishing point. As regards prognosis and treatment in the nystagmus associated with head-nodding in children, see article on that subject. Paralysis of Ocular Muscles Paralysis of one or more of the ocular muscles is very far from being an uncommon condition, and it is one which from several points of view demands careful attention; for one reason, the double vision to which it may give rise is not infrequently one of the very earliest symptoms which force a patient in the earlier stages of serious and, it may be, acute intracranial or spinal disease to seek s^killed advice ; for another, the inconvenience and discomfort to which it gives rise, and the deformity caused, are matters of grave importancce to a patient. The im- mediate cause of our being consulted by a patient whose muscular apparatus is thus thrown out of gear is in the vast majority of instances the occurrence of double vision. Now, in order to answer the question which meets us at the outset of our inquiry into these matters, viz.. Why does a person whose (say) left external rectus muscle is paralysed have diplopia? we must first of all understand why with two normal eyes one sees singly. There is, as a matter of fact, no more reason why one should see double normally because he has two eyes, than that he should hear the same sound twice over because he has two ears—indeed, rather less; but in regard to this matter of single binocular vision there are two theories, neither of which is entirely satisfactory for all circum- stances, though both are useful. According to the first theory, all over those portions of the retina of one eye, images falling upon which impinge also on that of the other eye, every individual spot on the right retina has a cor- responding point on the left, the fibres leading from which join, pi'esumably at the chiasma, and proceed together to the centre of vision. Impressions falling upon what one might call