OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 154 a lesion in that region is not attended by an affection of muscles in the sense in which that phrase is employed here. Certain general principles, in the first place, gnide one in the decision as between the other three possible situations ; thus a paralysis which picks one or more muscles out of several which receive their nerve-supply from one nerve, is much more likely to be peripheral (orbital) than basal. A lesion which affects all the muscles supplied by the third nerve is, on the contrary, more likely to be intracranial than peripheral, while a lesion affecting the two muscles of accommodation could hardly be other than nuclear. In the decision of these points we are further greatly assisted by the presence or absence of such other symptoms as are exemplified by headache, hemiplegia, and paralysis of the facial nerve. I. The lesions which have a nucleay- situation present certain interesting features: (a) The paralysis may be congenital, as is probably the case with some of the examples of congenital ptosis with which one meets, especially those in which there is at the same time total inability to move the eye upwards. This could certainly not be of basal origin, nor is it at all likely to be of orbital origin, and produced by non-de- velopment of the levator palpebrse, the superior rectus, and the inferior oblique, all of which are, in such a case, imresponsive. (i) Headache, so frequent a symptom in various forms of brain disease, may be conspicuously absent, though in other cases it is very severe, and it may precede by a considerable time the paralytic symptoms, (c) The paralysis is not infrequently isolated, one or more out of the muscles supplied by one nerve being picked out; thus paralysis of the inferior rectus may be nuclear in its origin, all the other muscles under the command of the third nerve escaping. One of the most striking forms of nuclear paralysis is paralysis of the whole third nerve, except the two in- terior muscles (iris and accommodation), {d) The paralysis is not seldom quite transitory, but reappearing in the same or other muscles; with this one is familiar in the cases of loco- motor ataxia, the paralysis occurring sometimes in the earlier stages of which disease are most probably of nuclear origin, (e) The paralysis sometimes spreads from one muscle to another, it may even cross over to the other side of the body. (/) Other complications may be present at the time, or may follow, which have their oi'igin also in those nuclei which are anatomi- cally in more or less close approximation to those first affected. Thus polyuria and somnolence are not infrequently observed. {g) Nuclear paralysis may occur at any age. {h) Nuclear paralysis may be acute, recovering rapidly, re- maining permanently, or death from complica- tions occurring very shortly ; or may be of very slow progress indeed, extending over a number of years, with or without remissions, (i) Nuclear paralysis has the curious feature, in many cases, of varying considerably from day to day, or even at different parts of the day, and also of being to a considerable extent under the control of the patient. Thus a nuclear ptosis (ex- cluding the congenital nuclear variety) may seem severe in the evening when the patient is fatigued, and quite trifling in the morning when he is fresh ; the patient, too, if urged to make an effort to lift the lid, is often quite well able to do so for a minute or so, but the ptosis gradually reappears so soon as the attention is relaxed. The condition known as ophthalmoplegia, in which all the exterior muscles without the in- terior, or all the interior without the exterior, or both combined, are paralysed, is generally due to nuclear lesion; this is all the more certain if the condition is bilateral. There is, however, the possibility of such a condition being produced by a tumour or other gross lesion of the orbit; it may also be basal, and possibly may even be fascicular. It is a noteworthy feature of ophthalmoplegia that the accompany- ing ptosis is often much slighter in degree than the other paralysis. It is stated by some authors that bilateral ophthalmoplegia is always syphil- itic in origin, but the present writer does not see his way to accept so sweeping an assertion. II. The causes of basal paralysis resolve themselves into three, viz. : (a) Inflammatory affection involving the nerve trunks (meningitis, etc.) ; (5) pressure, either directly by tumour of various sorts, by vascular distension, or indirectly by pressure from enlargement of the ventricles, or the existence of a pus formation in the cerebral substance; and (c) disease of the nerve trunks themselves. One ought also to add that the nerves may be injured in fracture of the base of the skull. III. Paralysis which has its origin in the orbit may be due either to pressure of a tumour of any sort in the orbit or adjoining cavities, to periostitis at the apex of the orbit, to mechanical injury to nerve or muscle, to congenital absence (partial or complete) of a muscle, or to those peripheral lesions which are exemplified by the action of rheumatism, syphilis, diphtheria, and "cold." If now we look at this question of the origin of any paralysis from an entirely different point of view, we can obtain much information from the study of the various combinations of muscles and nerves involved, including in this review the combination of paralysis of certain of the eye muscles with the implication of other sensory and motor nerves. Certain combinations afford fairly precise information of the seat of the lesion, as indeed we have to some extent already seen The information thus obtained is naturally of great value in cases of brain lesion above the nuclei (fascicular lesions), as assisting materially to localise the lesion with greater precision.