28 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA water afterwards added to one ounce. Yeo recommends gr. 5 every hour for four doses, to be discontinued if no relief follows. Tincture of gelsemium is of much service in some cases; but large doses are often required, and as such frequently produce slight toxic symptoms, and as the strength of the diiferent preparations varies, considerable caution is necessary in using the drug. Quinine in large doses is of distinct value, especially in supra-orbital neuralgia, even when there is no connection with malaria. Aconite is of service in facial neuralgia, but is liable to produce toxic symptoms. Sometimes large doses of potassium iodide are beneficial when there is no evidence of syphilis. Occasionally phosphorus, antipyrin, antifebrin, exalgin, and phenacetin have given relief. Oppenheim and others have found pyramidon distinctly useful. In the neuralgia of old age nitro-glycerine may be given, and recently hypodermic injec- tions of nitrate of strychnine (in increasing doses) have been recommended strongly. When all other methods fail it may be necessary to give morphia hypodermically. At first the dose should be small—to ^ or ^ of a grain ; and it is well to combine it with of a grain of atropine. The risk of forming a morphia habit should not be forgotten. Locally/, the fluid formed by rubbing together equal parts of chloral hydrate and camphor (or 3 of camphor, 3 of chloral hydrate, and 1 of menthol) often gives much relief. Solid menthol may be gently rubbed over the skin at the painful parts. Other useful local appli- cations are chloroform liniment; or a liniment composed of menthol 3, chloroform 4, olive oil to 16; extract of belladonna and glycerine; cocaine and vaseline (1 in 20 or 30); aconite and veratria ointments (the last two should not be applied over any broken surface or mucous membrane). A few drops of a weak solution of cocaine dropped on to the con- junctiva, or the painting of the nasal mucous membrane with cocaine solution (5 to 10 per cent), may give relief to the pain (Oppenheim). The application of heat by a coil of small india- rubber tubing through which a stream of hot water is allowed to flow, is sometimes of service (Collins). Galvanism is occasionally beneficial. The anode pole is placed over the painful area, and the kathode on some indiff"erent part. A weak current (about 2 milliamperes) should be used. The application should be continuous for about five or ten minutes. A wet sponge may be used as an electrode, and this should be applied very gently and gradually; also it should be very gradually removed, so as to avoid a sudden make or break of the current, but a rheostat is better for this purpose. The electrical treat- ment should be given daily. In some obstinate cases the introduction of cocaine into the tissues in the region of the aff"ected nerve, by means of cataphoresis, has been of service. In very chronic cases the in- jection of a weak solution of osmic acid near or into the nerve has sometimes been most useful. Bennett recommends that the' nerve (supra- or infra-orbital or mental) should be exposed by a very small incision, and the osmic acid solution injected by a sterilised hypodermic needle directly into the nerve substance. In- jections of dihite solutions of carbolic acid or of cocaine hydrochlorate in the neighbourhood of the nerve have also sometimes given relief. The surgical treatment of neuralgia is, in the absence of a thorough knowledge of its causation and pathology, necessarily empirical and not very satisfactory in its results. Hence all reasonable non-operative measures should first be tried, and especially such general con- ditions as ansemia and hysteria should be medi- cally dealt with. In hysterical cases operation may cure by suggestion, but the probabilities are in favour of the recurrence of hysterical troubles, often of increased severity, in some other region. On the other hand, neuralgias due to painful cicatrices and to pressure lesions of nerves call for immediate surgical treatment, and such treatment can alone be of service; but with cases of this class we are not at present further concerned. The operative measures open to us for the relief of neuralgia are five in number, viz.: (1) Nerve section or neurotomy; (2) nerve resec- tion or neurectomy; (3) nerve stretching ; (4) avulsion of nerves; and (5) the excision of the cranial ganglia or resection of the posterior spinal roots. Mere section of the affected nerve is practi- cally useless. In all such cases regeneration ensues at an early date, and with it the original pain usually recurs. neurectomy/, or the excision of a segment of the affected trunk, produces ansesthesia of more prolonged duration, and, as it is not a more formidable operation than section, it should in all cases be preferred. The method can only be adopted in the case of purely sensory nerves, and is hence almost limited in its application to the branches of the trigeminal and to the posterior spinal roots; resection of a mixed nerve presents too great a danger of leaving permanent paralysis. Except in special cases, to which we shall again refer, the operation is of the simplest nature, and consists in exposure of the aifected trunk, which is picked up by a strabismus hook, aneurysm needle, or other blunt instrument, when a length of from half an inch to an inch can be cut away with scissors. IVerve stretching has the advantage over neurectomy that it is applicable to nerves con- taining motor fibres. It induces primary symp- toms of partial paralysis and anaesthesia similar to those of section, but is accompanied by far