AND PELVIC FLOOR PELVIS—PERINEUM 380 as the pelvic floor is relieved of intra-abdominal pressure by the maintenance of the genupectoral position. A study of the lines of pressure Fig. 2.—The sacral or supporting segment of the pelvic floor (Hart), g, anus ; /, perineum ; e, symphysis pubis. drawn in Fig. 1, shows that the normal action of intra-abdominal pressure is to push the movable portion of the pelvic floor against the fixed portion, and so long as the relative positions of the two are maintained, and intra- abdominal pressure is balanced by the resistance of the fixed portion of the pelvic floor, no displacement occurs, in spite of the existence of the vaginal slit and the ring of loose tissue surrounding the movable position. The balance of forces is, however, liable to disturbance, with varied pathological conditions as results. Par- turition is the chief source of injury to the pelvic floor. It stretches and renders still more lax the above-mentioned ring of loose tissue; it enlarges and softens the vaginal walls; it frequently causes tearing of the lower margin of the fixed portion of the pelvic floor, namely, the perineum; and it occasionally produces lacerations of the levatores ani, and other structures in the sacral segment. For Hart's original description of the structural anatomy of the female pelvic floor, upon which most subsequent descriptions are based, the reader is referred to Hart's Structural Anatomy of the Female Pelvic Floor (Edin., 1881), and to Hart and Barbour's Manual of Gynaecology. It is convenient, in considering the lesions of the pelvic floor, to begin with those in which the fixed segment is involved, namely : 1. Undue descent of the whole pelvic floor ; 2. Lacerations of the perineum ; and 3. Rectocele. The conditions in which both the movable and the fixed portions are at fault will next be discussed, namely, sacro-pubic hernia, or prolapsus uteri and cystocele. Finally, those lesions of the movable portion known as an- terior and posterior vaginal enterocele must be described. Lesions in which the Fixed Portion is Involved 1. Undue Descent of the Pelvic Floor.—By the "pelvic floor projection" we understand the distance which the structures in the perineal region bulge or extend beyond a straight line drawn between the tip of the coccyx and the lower margin of the pubic symphysis, or, in other words, beyond the plane of the outlet of the bony pelvis. In normal women the average projection of the pelvic floor has been estimated by Foster at 2*5 cm., the measurement being- taken with the patient lying down. It is increased in the erect and diminished in the genupectoral posture. The projection is in- creased during pregnancy, and is greater in parous than in nuUiparous women, as is to be expected when we consider the amount of stretching and depression to which the sacral segment is exposed during parturition. In the absence of a special instrument, the bulge of the pelvic floor can be estimated clinically by measuring with a tape measure the distance from the top of the coccyx to the lower margin of the pubic symphysis. This averages about four inches, or, on straining, four inches and a half. Some parous women, who complain of pain in the back and hips, with dragging sensations in the pelvis, and other forms of discomfort, are found on examination to present no physical signs beyond an undue bulging or descent of the perineal structures. Upon measurement the distance from the tip of the coccyx to the symphysis may be found to be six inches, or even more. This incompetence of the pelvic floor is due in part to a general want of tone in the muscular structures, in which atrophic changes can sometimes be detected. Injuries to the levatores ani received during parturition are held by some to be of prime importance in the causation of the con- dition. Attempts at operative treatment are hardly justified in the present state of our knowledge. A perineal pad, supported by a belt fitting the hips like a hernia truss, gener- ally relieves the symptoms. (Teneral treatment should be directed towards improving the mus- cular tone by special exercises, by hygiene, and by internal medication. 2. Perineal Tears.—For a description of the nature and causation of injuries to the perineum during labour, and of the measures demanded for their immediate repair, the reader is referred to the article, "Labour, Injuries," in vol. vi. If lacerations of the perineum are not repaired by stitching within a few hours of their inflic- tion, the torn surfaces do not become reunited,