OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 207 ovary appears as a tumour, usually irregular in shape and consistence. In over 50 per cent of all cases this disease is bilateral, but, as in the case of sarcoma, simultaneous infection is doubt- ful (Martin). Cancer of the ovary is, as compared to uterine and mammary cancer, rather slow in growth. The pedicle isolates the tumour for a while; but when once the peritoneum becomes infected the disease advances rapidly and extends to the lumbar glands. Ascites and often amenorrhoea set in early, as in sarcoma. Ac/e a7id Malignant Ovaria7i Tumours.— Carcinoma, as well as sarcoma, seems distinctly most frequent in young girls a little over puberty, and at the menopause, but both diseases have been seen in infants and old women. Ovariotomy and Malignant Disease.—In the early stages the operation is easy, for malignant tumours are usually well peduncu- lated. When the tumour forms a fixed mass no attempt must be made to remove it. In the middle stages ovariotomy is practicable, but the mortality is high; nevertheless, it should be undertaken, for though recurrence is usually rapid, especially in cancer (Sanger, Pfannenstiel), about 40 per cent of the pa- tients live for over a year free from recurrence (Kratzenstein). The Pedicle. — A pedunculated ovarian tumour lies in the peritoneal cavity like a normal ovary. Its surface is not invested by any part of the peritoneum, not even by that portion which forms the broad ligament. It is connected with the uterus by the Fallopian tube, by its own "ovarian ligament," and by the mesosalpinx between the tube and the ligament, and is united to the peritoneum of the brim of the pelvis by the infundibulo- pelvic ligament which contains the ovarian vessels and joins the broad ligament. These connections together make up the "pedicle." The anatomy of the parts concerned (see " Broad Ligament, Diseases of") should be thoroughly understood by the surgeon. The big ovarian vessels lie in the outer border; and close to the inner border lies the anastomosis of a large branch from the ovarian, with another from the uterine artery. The Fallopian tube and meso- salpinx are nearly always hypertrophied in the pedicle of a common multilocular cyst, indeed in most cystic tumours; on the other hand, in many cases of solid and dermoid tumours no such overgrowth occurs, even when the tumour is very large. The operator can always recognise a true pedicle by the position of the tube and meso- salpinx, which are seen lying on the tumour, attached to, but distinct from it. The great majority of simple, multilocular, and adenomatous cysts, of dermoids, and of solid or semi-solid tumours, together with a minority of papillomatous cysts, are pedun- culated. Capsules, False and True.—In most cases a true capsule, that is to say, an investment of peritoneum which the tumour makes for itself, consists of the mesosalpinx alone. The surgical anatomy of the broad ligament is demonstrated in the article "Broad Ligament, Diseases of." A knowledge of the anatomy of capsules is of high importance to the surgeon. Fig. 1 is a diagram of the broad ligament seen in vertical section midway between the uterus and the pelvic wall. Fig. 2 shows how a simple or papillomatous cyst of broad ligament origin (such as the common "parovarian" tumour) is encapsuled in the mesosalpinx. In O.cv.— Fig. 1.—Normal relations of ovary to broad ligament and tube. O.cy. indicates position of an ordinary ovarian cyst, which does not burrow. The round ligament is indicated between A.l.mn. and A.l.iiim., but omitted in the other drawings, to avoid confusion. The lettering is fully explained under Fig. 4. Fig. 3 the mesosalpinx forms a capsule for a tumour (usually papillomatous) developed in the hilum or parenchyma of the ovary itself. Tumours with the mesosalpinx as a capsule can be recognised by the Fallopian tube which runs, greatly stretched, over the surface of the cap- sule. In Fig. 4 an ovarian, and in Fig. 5 a pure broad ligament cyst are represented en- capsuled not only in the mesosalpinx, but also in the mesometrium, that portion of the broad ligament which lies below the level of the ovary. In such cases the base of the tumour lies very low down in the pelvis below the normal level of the cervix uteri; the uterus is sometimes displaced upwards, lying flattened in the surface of the tumour. The tumour, as it rises, displaces the entire anterior layer of the broad ligament and its reflexion {R.p.) on to the abdominal wall. Hence the tumour is devoid of peritoneum over the greater part of its anterior aspect. The same relations are seen in "anterior tubo-ligamentary pregnancy" (Hart and Barbour, Taylor). Sometimes the