NOSE—NASAL NEUROSES 100 slight departures from the normal anatomical confirmation of the nasal passages, or the sensitiveness of the nasal mucosa, it is always desirable to examine carefully for the existence of any pathological condition in this region which may account for a nasal neurosis, in order that the peripheral factor may be re- moved. Amongst such local causes the follow- ing may be mentioned, viz. : (1) Marked hyper- trophic rhinitis ; (2) definite spurs (or deflec- tions of the septum) which are in contact with the turbinal bodies; (3) polypi; and (4) the existence of abnormally sensitive spots. Even when local abnormalities are found in the nose it is not always easy to determine how far they may be the cause of any associated neu- rosis, for it is a matter of common observation that all the local conditions just mentioned as possible causes can and do often occur without any concomitant nervous phenomena. The local application of cocaine is often a useful guide on this point; for if the neurosis is definitely relieved by the local ansesthetic, and reasserts itself as the effect of the cocaine passes ofi:', then appropriate local treatment is generally desirable. In rhinal hydrorrhoea the repeated local application of the galvanic current, one pole being in contact with the nasal mucous mem- brane, has proved successful; local hypodermic injections of atropine and strychnine also have resulted in cure. The local application of cocaine in cases of nasal neuroses, while often useful for diagnostic pui'poses, should not be resorted to as a curative measure : the drug may mask such affections for a time, but the relief is only temporary, and is liable to be followed by aggravation of the symptoms, while the risk of inducing a cocaine habit is never to be ignored in the treatment of any neurosis. Furthei', one should never overlook or dis- regard the existence of any underlying dys- crasia; thus paroxysmal sneezing, vasomotor rhinitis, and asthma may be due to goutiness, dyspepsia, and portal congestion. 9. Inflammatory AflFections of Accessory Sinuses 1. Anatomy of the Sinuses . . .100 2. Etiology of the Inflammatory Af- fections . . . . . .102 3. Bacteriology of the Inflammatory Affections . . . . .103 4. Pathology of the Inflammatory Af- fections . . . . . .103 5. Acute Inflammation and Suppura- tion IN— (a) The Alaocillary Sinus . .104 (6) The Frontal Sinus . . .105 (c) The Ethmoidal Cells . .105 (d) The Sphenoidal Sinus . .105 (e) Treatment of the Acute Affections 106 6. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration IN THE Accessory Sinuses, "Latent Empyema"— i. General Symptomatology . .106 ii. Examination of the Nose . . 108 iii. Diagnosis op Chronic Suppuration in the Anterior Group op Sin- uses 109 A. 2^he Maxillary/ Sinus . . .109 B. The Frontal Sinus . . .111 C. The Anterior Ethmoidal Cells . 113 iv. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration IN the Posterior Group of Sin- uses— A. The Sphenoidal Sinus. . . 114 B. The Posterior Ethmoidal Cells . 114 7. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration— A. The Maxillary Sinus . . . 115 B. The Frontal Sinus . . .119 C. The Ethmoidal Cells . . .122 D. The Sphenoidal Sinus . .123 Anatomy and Physiology. — The accessory air sinuses which lie in relation to the nasal cavities, and which communicate with each nasal chamber, are named as follows: the maxillary sinus, the frontal sinus, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells, and the sphenoidal sinus. These air spaces, both on anatomical and clinical grounds, may be conveniently considered as forming two groups, a subdivision which is based upon the relative position of their orifices of communication with the nose. In the first group are the maxillary, the frontal, and the anterior ethmoidal sinuses which open into the middle meatus of the nose below the line of origin of the middle turbinated bone (Fig. 2).^ In the second group are the posterior ethmoidal cells and the sphenoidal sinuses communicating with the nasal cavities above the middle turbi- nated bone, the former opening into the superior meatus, the latter into the spheno-ethmoidal recess. This recess is situated on the outer wall of the nasal chamber behind the superior turbi- nated bone, in front of the body of the sphenoid bone, and above the superior meatus (Fig. 2). When pus is seen in the middle meatus on anterior i-hinoscopy, its source must be suspected in the sinuses of the first group; when it is seen in the olfactory cleft, the narrow interval be- tween the middle turbinated bone and the septum nasi, attention should be turned to the posterior group of cells. These cavities are lined by a thin muco-periosteal membrane con- tinuous through their ostia with the lining membrane of the nasal cavities. The Maxilla7-y Sinus or Antrum of Highmore is a cavity constantly present in the body of the upper jaw-bone. It has a roof, a floor, and three walls. The roof is a thin plate of bone, the up2)er surface of which forms the floor of the orbital cavity. It contains the canal for the ' Figs. 1, 2, 3, and 4 refer to the Plate here inserted.