PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 521 time" of the reflex action is occupied in the passage of the change along the neurons, and •05 second, or five-sixths of the whole is taken up in the passage of the change from one neuron to another. Obviously the synapsis between the dendrites of the neurons offers a resistance, and this resistance varies with the condition of the neurons involved, possibly with the con- dition of the dendrites which form the synapses. If the toe of a frog deprived of its brain is pinched, the leg is drawn up ; but if a dose of strychnine is first administered, even touching the toes causes a violent spasm of every muscle in the body. The resistance is decreased. If, on the other hand, a dose of bromide of potassium has been administered, or if ice be put on the back of the animal, much more powerful stimu- lation is required to produce any reaction. The resistance is increased. The activity of the central synapses may be increased or dimin- ished in various ways, and hence it is never easy to predicate the ultimate result of any stimulation of the nervous system. But, other things being equal, the strength of stimiilus applied to the first neuron—that is, the extent of excitation—directly affects the extent of the resulting action. The nature of the " impulse" which passes along a nerve is due to change in the axis cylinder, since this, without its sheath, can con- duct. Further, it is dependent on the vitality of the nerve. Death of the nerve, as when it is heated to 47° C, at once stops the transmission of an impulse. We may at once dismiss the idea that the impulse is due to a flow of electricity. Electri- city travels along a nerve at about 300 million metres per second, a velocity much higher than that of the nerve impulse. Two possibilities remain. The impulse may be of the nature of a molecular vibration, such as occurs in a stethoscope which conducts sound vibration, or it may consist of a series of chemical changes such as cause the activity of protoplasm generally. In considering this matter it must be re- membered that the amount of energy evolved in a nerve impulse need not be great. All it has to do is to start the activity of the part to which it goes. Hence if chemical changes are the basis of the impulse, these may be extremely small in amount and difficult to detect, while at the same time recuperation may be extremely active. As a matter of fact, the evidence of chemical changes in nerve fibres is entirely wanting. No change in reaction, no heat production, and no phenomena of fatigue can be demonstrated. 4. The fmiction of the cell is to preside over the nutrition of the neuron. If any part of the neuron is cut off from its connection with the cell, it dies and degenerates. In the cat, excitability disappears after three days, and the white sheath shows degeneration changes in eight days. The fatty matter runs into globules and stains black with osmic acid even after treatment with chrome salts (Marchi's method). This seems to be due to the fact that osmic acid acts upon the unsaturated oleic acid, and that in the normal nerve this is oxidised by the chrome salt, whereas in the degenerated nerve so much is set free that it cannot all be oxidised, and therefore stains with osmic acid. The white substances gradually dis- appear. At the end of a month tiie phosphorus has all gone, and by the end of about forty-four days the fat can no longer be detected. At this stage Marchi's method is useless, and the degenerated fibres may be demonstrated by the fact that they do not stain with osmic acid or with Weigert's heematoxylin method, which stains the white sheaths of normal fibres. As the degeneration advances, the axis cylinder breaks down and the nerve corpuscles pro- liferate and absorb the remains of the white sheath, so that nothing is left but the primitive sheath filled by nucleated protoplasm. Into this, axons may grow downwards from the central end of the nerve, and regeneration may occur. This generally begins after forty-four days and is well marked after about one hundred days. Some investigators have maintained that re- generation occurs by the development of new fibrils in the degenerated nerve itself, but the mass of evidence indicates that when an apparent peripheral regeneration has occurred it has been due to the ingrowth of axons from adjacent cut nerves. The cell of the neuron appears to have the power of accumulating a reserve of material as Nissl's granules, for it has been found that after continued action these granules diminish in amount. The nucleus, too, would seem to have the power of giving off material for the nourishment of the neuron, since in conditions of excessive activity it has been found shrunken and distorted. But the cell is also dependent for its proper nutrition upon the condition of the rest of the neuron. When the axon is cut, the chromatin of the cell nucleus decreases, and the nucleus becomes displaced to one side, and ultimately the whole cell degenerates. This is sometimes called Nissl's Degeneration (see Fig. 36). Section IV.—The Neuro-muscular Mechanism The study of the physiology of muscle and nerve leads to the consideration of how the neuro-muscular mechanism acts, so that (1st) the various visceral muscles respond appro- priately to the conditions in which they are placed, and (2nd) so that the co-relationship of the animal with its surroundings may be maintained.