278 PARALYSIS present in some cases. Asymmetry and flatten- ing of the region of the central convohitions are common. In a few cases a defect in the skull in the central region, through which the brain could be felt to pulsate, has been found, and autopsies upon such cases have shown a porencephalic defect underlying the hole in the skull. Attitude.—In the more severe cases charac- teristic attitudes ai'e assumed. The head may be rigidly retracted, but more commonly the chin is pressed down upon the chest. Torti- collis has been noticed in two cases by Rosenthal. The spinal column generally shows kyphosis, sometimes lordosis, and often scoliosis. The cases presenting lordosis usually have head retraction, and those with kyphosis a flexed position of the head. Several characteristic attitudes have been described and named, and these occur with sufficient frequency to deserve special note. (1) The Cramped Attitude.—The head and trunk are bent forward. There is kyphosis. The elbows are pressed into the sides and the forearms crossed on the chest in contracture. There is contracture in the fully-flexed position at hip and knee joints. The position has been described as that in which the patient occupies the least possible space. (2) The Attitude of Adoration.—The head is retracted and the eyes are staring. There is lordosis. The elbows are pressed into the sides, and the hands are held supinated below the face. The legs are rigidly extended. (3) The Ertension-Stqyination Position.—The limbs are fully extended and the forearms are fully supinated. More rarely extreme pronation is associated with the extended position of the limbs. Pes cavus is present in most of the cases. Some cases show a condition of talipes equino- varus. Genu recurvatum sometimes occurs. The mode of progression in these cases, where any is possible, is characteristic. Little com- pared the gait to that of the tardigrade animals. Tiie " cross-legged progression " is so well known as to need no description here. Where the legs are so severely affected as to render walking impossible, while fair power remains in the upper limbs, the patient may crawl along the ground with the upper limbs, dragging the useless lower limbs and trunk. Muscles.—In some cases a curious hardness and resistant feeling of the affected muscles is present, resembling a similar condition in pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis. If athetosis is associated with the rigidity, there may be actual hypertrophy of the muscles. In late stages of severe generalised rigidity the muscles are always wasted. Perverse Movemerits. — Under this heading must be classed the very constant maladroit- ness of movement present in these cases, the facial overaction and grimacing in speech and in mimetic expression, choreic movements and athetotic movements and intention tremor. These forms of perverse movements are only present where the rigidity is absent. Athetotic movements sometimes are present in the face; choreic movements never. Not rarely choreic or athetotic movements are present in the upper extremities, associated with slight rigidity, while severe rigidity afl'ects the lower limbs. Choreic movements may develop pari passu with the rigidity. A case of generalised rigidity may clear up for the most part, leaving a choreic diplegia. Athetotic movements always appear at a later date than rigidity. Cases presenting either choreic or athetotic movements are said never to improve after such movements have made their appearance. Tremor, precisely resembling that seen in disseminated sclerosis, is sometimes seen in limbs where the rigidity is slight. Probably some of the so-called cases of disseminated sclerosis in children are in reality cases of diplegia. Common sensation and the muscular sense are unimpaired in the cases where their accurate investigation is possible. In the severe cases there is very great pain on passive movement of the rigid joints, probably owing to the formation of rest adhesions. Trophic changes are confined to a stunting of growth, but this is not nearly so well marked in the diplegias as in infantile hemiplegia and in bilateral spastic hemiplegia. In diplegia the bilaterality of the distribution renders it difficult to estimate. The sphincters are unaffected. The deep reflexes are exaggerated, but are difficult to obtain in limbs which are very rigid, and for this reason foot clonus is not generally obtained. Of the superficial reflexes those of the trunk are absent in marked cases. The plantar reflexes are usually of the extensor type, but sometimes of the flexor type. Congenital Spastic Idiocy.—These cases are placed under a special heading because of their peculiar clinical aspect. They present slight symptoms of generalised rigidity with profound mental changes, which generally amount to complete idiocy. In these cases the incidence of the cortical lesion is chiefly upon the frontal convolutions. Paraplegic Rigidity — Little's Disease. — In this type the rigidity and paresis are confined to the lower extremities. Tardigrade progres- sion, or the ci-oss-legged progression, or the " broken - backed " progression, is present. Adductor and extensor spasm of the legs with pes cavus is the rule. Not rarely tliere is hyperextension of the knees. The general de- scription given in the description of Generalised