283 PARALYSIS and of long duration, is too often abandoned or even unattempted, and the few years following the onset of the disease being neglected, the lapse of time places an impassable barrier before the efforts of the physician. Contractions and deformities do not in themselves influence prognosis. Cases presenting slight mental impairment may improve considerably in this respect. The amount of impairment can only be judged by the progress made under the influence of careful education of a special kind. Pathology.—Since infantile hemiplegia has little tendency to be fatal at an early period pathological examination has been confined almost entirely to periods long after the onset of the disease, when, from the occurrence of some secondary process (sclerosis, cyst forma- tion, etc.), it is difficult to correctly surmise the nature of the initial morbid process. The condition found at these is shrinking and atrophy of the convolutions of a limited area of the brain. These convolutions are small and hard to finger, the sulci between them are widened, the sclerosed area being sunk below the level of the general surface of the hemi- sphere. After the removal of the membranes the surface of the atrophied area presents an appearance which may be likened to that of a walnut kernel. There is always compensatory increase of the subarachnoid fluid over this area, and frequently a compensatory dilatation of the lateral ventricle beneath. Often associated with this atrophic lobar sclerosis is cystic for- mation, and the term porencephaly has been applied to the condition. There are several varieties of the cystic condition. There may be a local complete absence of the wall of the ventricle, the subarachnoid space being con- tinuous with the cavity of the ventricle, or the ventricle wall may consist only of the lining membrane of the ventricle and the pia-arachnoid, or lastly, a smooth-walled cyst may separate the ependyma from the pia-arachnoid. In some cases a single cyst in the substance of the hemi- sphere is found, with walls containing the products of the degeneration of blood pigment, and suggesting that the origin of such a cavity has been a haemorrhage. In the congenital cases a general hemiatrophy of the brain, with little sclerosis, is present. In atrophic lobar sclerosis the microscopic appearances are disappearance of the nerve elements and increase of the neuroglial elements wath the presence of many spider cells. The vessels present no conspicuous change. The initial morbid processes which lead to these results are not certain. It must be re- membered that the infantile brain does not react in the same way to injury as does the adult brain. A lesion which in the adult would produce a softening, produces atrophy and sclerosis in the child. Except in the congenital cases (hemiatrophy of brain) where develop- mental arrest is caused by some as yet imknown lesion, and in cases dating from birth injury, where there is local traumatic destruction of cerebral tissue, it seems probable than an initial vascular lesion is present. Thrombosis of superficial veins of the cerebrum, thrombosis of the superior longitudinal sinus, multiple throm- bosis of small arteries, have undoubtedly been the initial lesions in isolated cases. Polioencephalitis, embolism of the middle cerebral artery, and cerebral haemorrhage have been found present, but only in cases where the clinical aspect has been somewhat different to that usual in infantile hemiplegia. A vascular thrombosis, therefore, appears to be the most probable initial lesion, but we are entirely ignorant of the pathological process which is responsible for such a lesion. It is probable, however, that this is peculiar and entirely distinct from the processes imderlying throm- bosis in the adult. Diagnosis.—The disease may be distinguished from the other chief cause of spastic paralysis of hemiplegic distribution—intracranial tumour —by its rapid onset and slow amelioration, and by the absence of headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis. The not uncommon absence of this last sign in glioma situated in the pons Varolii must be borne in mind. The fact that the paralysis is strictly unilateral separates this disease from cerebral diplegia, and there is neither optic atrophy nor a familial tendency to the disease in infantile hemiplegia. The rapid muscular wasting, loss of the deep reflexes, and absence of Faradic excitability in the muscles, easily distinguish the rare cases of anterior poliomyelitis where the distribution is unilateral, affecting both arm and leg, and the paralysis severe. Treatme7it.—Since in the early stage of the disease its nature is only manifest when im- provement begins and the hemiplegia becomes manifest, the treatment at this period is that of acute illness in general—rest and careful nursing. The subsequent treatment which should be commenced as earlj^ as the physical state will allow, should at first be massage to the paralysed limbs. Electrical treatment is to be avoided, as children are as a rule so frightened by its application that the advantage gained from it is more than counterbalanced. Directly some power is regained, every attention should be paid to the re-education of the returning movement by physical exercise of the faulty limbs. In order to direct volition to the para- lysed side it is sometimes advantageous to con- fine the upper limb of the sound side. Such physical exercises are almost impossible where there is much mental backwardness and lack of attention, and these deficiencies must be as far as possible removed by special education. Where considerable improvement has been at-