124 NOSE—FOREIGN BODIES, ETC. nares; (2) through the posterior choanse ; or (3) by penetrating the walls of the cavities. They may also arise in situ in the form of necrosed sequestra and rhinoliths. This last group will be considered separately. The majority of cases occvir in children. It would be impossible to enumerate the various articles which they have in play pushed into their nostrils, but the list would include buttons, beads, peas, beans, fruit-stones, and the like. Lunatics sometimes introduce various articles through the anterior nares. In adults the most common objects are portions of cotton- wool or gauze, which have been inadvertently left in during treatment. Foreign bodies may gain access to the nostrils through the posterior choanse during violent vomiting. When sub- stances reach the cavity through its walls it is generally due to some external force—frequently some firearm. Symptoms.—-These will vary according to the size, nature, and situation of the substance in- troduced. There may be some discomfort and irritation, or even a considerable amount of reaction, but in many cases the introduction is followed by a period of tolerance, which may last from a few days to ten, twenty, or forty years. Sooner or later reaction sets in, and is manifested by an ichorous, one-sided, foetid discharge, which is frequently blood-stained. Nasal obstruction and various reflex symptoms may be present. With good illumination and nasal speculum and a probe the presence of a foreign body can generally be definitely demonstrated. In young children it is frequently necessary to give a general ansesthetic, when not only can the diagnosis be confirmed, but extraction can also be completed. Diagnosis.—The history of the accident may help in the diagnosis, and in children the pres- ence of a chronic unilateral discharge, especially when offensive, is always suggestive of a foreign body. It may be mistaken for a rhinolith or syphilitic necrosis, but as the treatment is identical in all cases the diSerentiation is not important. In adults it might be mistaken for an empyema, and in children it must not be confused with nasal diphtheria or membranous rhinitis. Prognosis. — Once the foreign body is ex- tracted the symptoms it gave rise to speedily disappear. Treatment. — The probe used for diagnosis will frequently be of help in levering the sub- stance into a suitable position, whence it can be extracted with a small crotchet hook, nasal snare, or suitable forceps. This should always be carried out under the control of the eye. In children, a general antesthetic is frequently required. If it is found impossible to remove the foreign body through the anterior nares it may be pushed backwards into the naso-pharynx. where the forefinger of the left hand is ready to prevent it from falling into the gullet or larynx. The after-treatment consists in simple cleans- ing measures. Rhinoliths Synonyms.—Nasal calculi, concretions in the nose. Etiology.—Nasal concretions are generally one- sided, irregularly spherical, grey, friable, and with a rough mulberry surface. On analysis they are found to consist of various salts, chiefly phosphate and carbonate of lime. On section it is seen that these salts have been deposited around a nucleus of some foreign body, or perhaps some blood-clot or inspissated mucus. Symptoms. — These will to a considerable extent resemble those caused by a foreign body. A one-sided discharge and obstruction are the chief indications for a careful exploration of the affected nostril, when the probe will generally settle the diagnosis. Diagnosis. — This frequently cannot be definitely determined until the rhinolith has been extracted, but the provisional one of some foreign body is sufficient (vide Foreign Bodies, supra). Prognosis.—Once completely removed, there is no tendency for nasal calculi to reform. Treatment.—This is carried out on precisely the same lines as indicated in the section on foreign bodies. In some cases, owing to the continuous accretions to the outer surface and the irregularity in their development, it is sometimes necessary to crush the rhinolith and syringe out the fragments from the opposite cavity. Parasites of the Nose Synonyms. — Myiasis narium, larvae in the nose, maggots in the nose, Entomo-zoaria in the nose, animate foreign bodies in the nose, Peenash (a term used in India). Symptoms.—The occurrence of animate foreign bodies within the nasal chambers is fortunately very rare in temperate climates. In India, South America, and other tropical countries, the presence of larvse in the nose is not un- commonly met with in the natives, in whom it is associated with extensive ulceration of the nasal cavities, pain, epistaxis, septicaemia, and sometimes convulsions, coma, and death. The eggs of certain flies of the order of Muscida;— and chiefly the Lucilia hominivora — are de- posited in or near the nasal cavities, to which they are particularly attracted by any purulent condition. The incubation period is short, and within a day or two symptoms of irritation may be set up. How acute these may be can be judged from the fact that sometimes as many as two hundred maggots have been expelled in a single case. Fortunately, these larvae can be