OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 153 offending left - mover is thus thrown out of action, all the objects with which the patient is dealing at the moment are put over to his right side, and double vision reduced to a minimum. Similarly if the diplopia is in the lower half of the field, the patient endeavours to have as many objects above the level of the eyes as possible, and to do without bringing any de- pressor into play, by keeping the head lowered and turning the eyes upwards. For the correc- tion of the faulty inclination of the false image, the unusual attitude adopted by the head is much less obvious, but alteration of position may be expressed in this way that (as is, indeed, the case with the other movements) the head is turned in the direction in which the defaulting muscle ought to rotate the eye, or—what is the same thing—in the same sense as the inclination of the false image. 3. Faulty Projection. — The third of the chief points in regard to the symptoms pro- duced by paralysis of ocular muscles, namely, faulty projection, need not detain us long. It depends upon the wrong estimate made by the weak muscle of the amount of effect produced upon the position of the eye by the expenditure of nerve-energy supplied to it. This might be expressed in the following manner :—Suppose that in health enough energy were given out under certain circumstances to rotate the eye through an angle of 30°, if the actual power of the muscle is by paresis reduced to one-third, then with the same expenditure of energy the result will be a movement only through 10°. Now it is by the amount of nerve-energy ex- pended in bringing the macula to bear upon an object, and not by the effect produced, that we judge of its position in space; therefore, in paralysis of any muscle we are apt to " refer " an object to a point in space farther in the line of action of that muscle than it in reality is. In a recent case of paralysis of the external rectus, for example, this can be easily demon- strated. Let the patient cover the sound eye, and while he fixes your uplifted finger with the affected one, let him dart his finger quickly at yours; it will be found that his finger passes yours on the side of the weak muscle, showing that he has been under the impression that your finger was farther in that direction than it really stood. Other methods of demonstrating the same error of jvidgment will occur to the reader. In point of fact, it is the existence of this faulty projection, as much as the actual diplopia, which causes the inconvenience and discomfort from which the patient suffers ; in descending a stair, for example, he has the double difficulty of seeing double and of imagin- ing the step to be where it is not. Etiology A point of great importance to be settled before any operative or other treatment is begun, is whether a convergent squint is due to a paralytic condition, or to refractive ano- maly. The following matters should be inquired into:— Age of Patient. — Convergent concomitant strabismus usually develops before the age of four or five years; paralysis may occur at any age. Refraction.—Nearly all convergent concomi- tant squints are associated with hypermetropia. Onset. — Concomitant squint at its inception is very often erratic, coming and going for some time—it may be seen at times even for months before becoming fixed; paralytic squint is almost always sudden or rapid in its onset. Diplopia.—In the great majority of cases of concomitant strabismus diplopia is not com- plained of, and is difficult to elicit, even on careful testing ; on the other hand, diplopia is not, as pointed out above, invariaUy present in paralysis, though it is present in the vast majority of cases. Primary Deviation.—In concomitant squint the fault of position or degree of convergence is the same all over the field of fixation, as its name implies, while in paralytic squint the error in position is greatest in certain positions. Secondary Deviation.—When the eye which ordinarily fixes the object is hidden behind the hand or other screen, that which usually squints is then obliged to fix, and the original eye devi- ates ; in concomitant strabismus the secondary deviation is not greater than the primary. In paralytic squint, when the paretic eye is fixing, the effort required on the part of the feeble muscle to draw it into line is much greater than in the case of a normal muscle, and the corresponding impulse sent to the associated lateral muscle of the sound eye, therefore, produces a more extensive alteration in posi- tion ; in other words, the secondary deviation is greater than the primary. Projection.—In paralytic squint the projection by the misdirected eye is erroneous ; it is correct in concomitant strabismus. When we have decided that such and such a mixscle is paralysed, we have only taken the first of a series of steps towards the diagnosis, for we must know also the seat of the lesion and its precise nature, before we can be said to have arrived at an understanding of the case. Where, then, is the lesion situated % Thei-e are four situations, damage in which is capable of producing paralysis of ocular muscles. The lesion may be in the orbit, at the base of the brain, nuclear, or in the nerve paths and centres superior to the nuclei. With the last of these classes we have little to deal in the present article further than to say that, since above the nuclei the nerve impulses are to movements of the globe rather than to action of individual muscles, and it is in the nuclei that such im- pulses are transmitted to the individual muscles.