PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 503 The third globulin, Myoglobulin, does not undergo this change. These three proteins are contained in the plasma—the juice which can be expressed from muscles kept near the freez- ing point. If the plasma is warmed it rapidly clots, just as it does post-mortem. (6) The insoluble protein of muscle, Myo- stromin, seems to be of the nature of a nuclein, and probably forms the framework of the fibres. It is always mixed with the collagen of the fibrous tissue of muscle, and it may be separ- ated by dissolving it in carbonate of soda solu- tion, from which it may be again precipitated by weak acetic acid; Collagen derived from the fibrous tissue hold- ing the muscle fibres together is also present, and yields gelatin on boiling. In addition to the proteins, small quantities of other organic substances are found in muscle. 2. Carbohydrates. — Glucose (CgH^gO^) is present in muscle, as in all other tissues. Glycogen ^(CgHjQO^) — a substance closely allied to ordinary starch, but giving a brown reaction with iodine — is always present in muscle at rest. If the muscle has been active, the amount of glycogen diminishes, being prob- ably converted to glucose, and used for the nourishment of the tissue. 3. Fat is present in small quantities in the fibres, and often in very considerable quantities in the fibrous tissue between the fibres. 4. Inosite, formerly called muscle sugar, is present in small amounts. It is not a sugar, but a benzine compound. 5. Sarcolactic Acid.—Hydroxy-propionic acid— H OH 0 I I II H—C—C—C—0--H I I H H This dextro-rotatory isomere of ordinary lac- tic acid is increased in muscle during activity and during death stiffening. 6. Extractives.—If dried muscle is treated with alcohol a series of bodies containing nitro- gen may be extracted. The chief of these is Crea- tin, or methyl-guanidin-acetic acid. Guanidin C.NH(NH2)2 is a near ally of urea CO(NH2)2, being formed by replacing the 0 with NH. Methyl-guanidin is produced by replacing an H in guanidin by CHg— NH CHo II I H2N—C—N—H If this is linked to acetic acid— H—N CH, H.,N—C—N- Methyl-guanidin is produced. H 0 I II -C—C—OH H acetic acid 7. The colour of muscle varies considerably, some muscles being very pale, almost white in colour—e.g. the breast muscles of the fowl; others again being distinctly red, even after all the blood has been removed. This red colour is, in some cases, due to the presence of the pigment of blood, hcemoglohin, but in certain muscles it is due to a peculiar set of pigments, Myohsematins, giving different reactions from the blood pigment. 3. Physical Characters of Mtiscle 1. Muscle is translucent during life, but as death stiffening sets in, it becomes more opaque. 2. Muscle is markedly extensile and elastic. A small force is suificient to change its shape, but when the distorting force is removed it re- turns completely to its original shape, provided always that the distortion has not ovei'stepped the limits of elasticity. When a distorting force is suddenly applied to muscle—e.g. if a weight is suddenly attached —the distortion takes place at first rapidly, and then more slowly, till the full effect is pro- duced. If now the distorting force is removed the elasticity of the muscle brings it back to its original form, at first rapidly, and then more slowly. The advantages of these properties of muscle are, that every muscle in almost all positions of the parts of the body is stretched between its point of origin and insertion. When it con- tracts it can therefore act at once to bring- about the desired movement, and no time is lost in preliminary tightening. Again, the force of contraction, acting through such an elastic medium, causes the movement to take place more smoothly, and without jerks. Ex- perimentally, too, it has been ascertained that a force acting through such an elastic medium produces more work than when it acts through a rigid medium. The extensibility of muscle is of value in allowing a group of muscles to act without being strongly opposed by their antagonistic group. For instance, suppose the extensor muscles of the arm were not readily extensile, when the flexors acted, a large amount of their energy would have to be employed in elongating the extensors. Similarly the elasticity of the muscles tends to bring the parts back to their normal position when the muscles have ceased to contract. It must not, however, be imagined that in all movements of one set of luuscles, the antagonistic muscles are relaxed, although they may be elongated. Often they are in a state of activity so as to guide the movements which are being produced. Tonus of Muscle. — The tense condition of resting muscle between its points of origin and insertion is not merely due to passive elasticity, but is in part caused by a continuous con-