209 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE when they are small. The same complication always appears when a common ovarian cyst is allowed to grow to a large size. Traumatism, the friction of the tumour against the viscera. A.l.ms. mm. I. mm. ovariotomy, a purely surgical question relating to abdominal operations in general. It has been assumed that the wounds which the operator necessarily inflicts during ovariotomy, etc., must inevitably be followed by adhesions. Kelterborn has shown that this idea is a fallacy. A series of experiments, in which pieces of parietal and visceral peritoneum were cauterised or snipped olT in animals under aseptic conditions, indicated that the wounds thus inflicted do not tend to con- tract adhesions. The healthy wound in a ruptured Graafian follicle never adheres. The stump of the ligatured ovarian pedicle bears a wounded surface, but though it may adhere even to intestine, it is often found, in second ovariotomies on the same subject, absolutely free from adhesions. Rujyture of an ovarian cyst is not rare. A single loculus often gives way, its outer wall being softened by small cysts in its substance, or by thrombosis of its vessels. Sometimes the same changes may cause a large, practically unilocular cyst to give way. Constitutional disturbance and paiti are absent, as a rule, in such cases. The patient notices that her abdomen has sud- Diuresis commonly follows the rupture; diarrhoea is not rare. In most instances the cyst fills again rather rapidly. The chief danger in rupture of a cyst is dissemination of solid contents. Even adenoid growths may thus become clini- cally malignant. Difl^usion of colloid matter Fig. 4.—Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing both in mesosalpinx and meso- metriiim. 0«., ovary. P., parametrium or pelvic connective tissue, shaded. A.l.ms., anterior layer of mesosalpinx. P.l.ms., posterior denlv o'rown Smaller, layer. jl,Z.m)«.., anterior layer of mesometrium (the part of the broad ^ ligament below the level of the ovary—Waldeyer). R.p., reflexion of peritoneimi from mesometrium on to the pelvis and abdominal wali. B.p., part of tumour bare of peritoneum. Ur., ureter. pregnancy, and many other causes, produce the complication. The treatment consists in absolute rest, antiphlogistics, and hot applications for a day or two, and then ovariotomy; but when there is a suspicion of sup- puration immediate removal of the tumour is demanded. Great care must be taken when tapping a sup- purating tumour during ovariotomy lest any of the contents escape into the peritoneal cavity. The removal of suppurating dermoids strongly ad- herent constitutes one of the most dangerous varieties of ovariotomy. Adhesions are the commonest re- sults of inflammation. Parietal ad- hesions are very common, omental nearly as frequent. In old, neglected, and malignant cases coils of small intestine may adhere strongly. Ad- hesions to the uterus and bladder are ^. not common, but they may be very in- £ timate. The surgeon must be careful to distinguish between adherent large intestine and close relation of large intestine to the tumour, when the latter has burrowed under peri- toneum. Exact diagnosis of adhesions is usually impossible, but presumptive evidence is strong when symptoms of chronic torsion or inflam- mation have been observed. As for treatment, it consists in their careful separation during VOL. VII Fig. 5.- Broad ligament cyst, not of ovarian origin, burrowing into mesosalpinx and mesometrium. is very prejudicial to the patient. The diff'usion of infected fluid material over the peritoneum after rupture is dangerous, but rare, as where the cyst has become infected there are usually protective adhesions. Lastly, rupture of the 14