PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 549 The mode of action may be analysed by a study of the sensations which accompany its activity. That there is no special mechanism making lis aware of uniform movement is proved by the fact that we are not conscious of whirling through space with the earth's surface, and that in a smoothly running train we lose all sense of forward movement. It is only as the train starts or stops that we have a sensation of movement or retardation. The same thing has been demonstrated by strapping a man to a table rotating smoothly round a vertical axis and setting the table spinning. A sense of rotation is experienced as the table starts, but is lost when the movement becomes uniform. Stopping the table gives rise to a sensation of being rotated in the opposite direction. The semicircular canals are the mechanism which act in this way. They are arrang d in pairs in the two ears. The two horizontal canals are in a horizontal plane ; the superior canal of one side and the posterior canal of the other are in parallel planes oblique to the mesial plane of the body (Fig. 82, a). The horizontal canals may be considered as FIO. 82.—a. Arrangement of the semicircular canals on the two ' sides; b, bony and membranous canal and ampulla to illustrate their mode of action. forming the arc of a circle with an ampulla at each end. The superior canal of one side has its ampulla in front, while its twin—the posterior of the opposite side—has its ampulla behind, and they together form the arc of a circle with an ampulla at each end (Fig. 82, a). The membranous canals are very narrow, and occupy but a small part of the osseous canals. The membranous ampullte are large and almost fill the osseous ampullte (Fig. 82, b). If the head is moved in any plane, certain changes will be set up in the ampvillse towards which the head is moving, and converse changes in the ampullae at the other end of the arc of the circle. If, for example, the head is suddenly turned to the right, the inertia of the endolymph and perilymph tend to make them lag behind. Thus the endolymph in the ampulla of the left horizontal canal will tend to flow into the canal, but the canal is so small that it will merely accumulate in the ampulla, and thus a high pressure will be produced (Fig. 81, 6 + +). The perilymph will tend to lag behind, and a low pressure will result outside (Fig. 82, h -). The converse will take place in the opposite horizontal canal. When the movement is continued the pressures will be readjusted, and, on stopping the movement, the opposite conditions will be induced, and a sensation of moving in an opposite direction will be experienced. In forward movement, the two superior canals have the pressure of endolymph increased in their ampullae — in backward movement this occurs in the two posterior canals. In nodding to the right the superior and posterior canals of the right ear undergo this change. In all probability the utricle, with its otoliths mounted on the top of the hair cells, also plays a part in the labyrinthine mechanism. As the head is moved the pressure of the otolith will change from one part of the macula to another, and may thus give diiferent stimuli for different positions of the head. The importance of this labyrinthine mechanism in muscular co-ordination is shown by the effect of its destruction. This leads to inco-ordinate movements of the eyes, head, and limbs, and to loss of tone in the miiscles. When injury to the labyrinth is sudden, as when a " knock- out " blow is received on the chin, driving the condyles of the lower jaw against the petrous part of the temporal, the general loss of muscular tone may be so complete that the individual collapses. The muscles chiefly under the tonic influence of this mechanism are those of the neck and trunk, and the extensor and abductor muscles of the limbs of the same side. Just as the eye dominates the movements of the muscles of the body through the cerebrum (see p. 544), so the labyrinthine mechanism dominates the tonus of the muscles as a whole through the cerebellum (see p. 548). 5. The Connections between the Eecbiving AND Reacting Mechanisms 1. The Spinal Nerves The connections between the peripheral receiv- ing mechanisms and the central nervous system, the activity of which leads to the appropriate reaction of muscles, has been in part studied in connection with the various special senses. The main connecting channels between the peripheral receiving organs and the central nervous system on the one hand, and the central nervous system and the reacting struc- tures on the other, may now be considered more generally. These connections are seen in their most typical arrangement in the spinal nerves, a pair of which comes off, one on each side, from each level of the spinal cord, and passes out- wards between the vertebrae. General Arrangement.—These nerves may be classified as ingoing and outgoing, and they may be divided into those connected with the body wall and its appendages and those con- nected with the viscera.