NOSE—POSTNASAL 96 ADENOID GROWTHS the growths away, instead of merely sweeping them into the pharynx, and thus lessen the risk of their slipping into the larynx—they are directed to each piece of the growth before it is pulled out, and should never be allowed to seize anything unless so felt with the iinger. This provision is the more important seeing that it is by no means an unknown accident for a portion of the Eustachian tube, or a splinter of the vomer, to be torn out. And it is quite conceivable that some of the untoward events, of which one has heard now and again, have been due to such rough handling of what may be a very mischievous instrument. So that, in spite of the superiority of the forceps, I consider that in the hands of one inexpert the curette is the safer instrument. Having re- moved all the larger portions with forceps, and detached them from the instrument by dipping- it into some antiseptic solution, care moreover being taken not to overlook the presence of the growths in Rosenmtiller's fossae behind the Eustachian tubes, as well as remembering the possibility of thrusting large pendulous growths before the finger or instrument into the posterior choanee and thus allowing them to escape removal, the posterior wall of the postnasal cavity may be smoothed down with the curette as a final procedure. Yet even after the use of this, it is well to examine the whole region very carefully with the finger to ascer- tain that the removal has been completed satisfactorily. The whole operation should not take more than two or three minutes, and is frequently done in less, even where tonsils have to be cut, and the mass of growth enormous. The main difficulty and anxiety is the hsemorrhage ; one may state that but as a rule the amount of blood lost lies in direct proportion to the length of time occupied, and that the bleeding never ceases until the operation is finished. And so rarely need anxiety be felt on this score, that one is perhaps apt to forget the possibility of having to adopt any measures for the mitiga- tion of the bleeding. Occasionally it proves necessary to turn the patient on the side before the operation is completed, and even to finish it in that position; and now and again one likes to sponge the patient's forehead with ice-water, or drop small portions of ice into the nostrils, so that they may find their way into the post- nasal space. This is probably more effectual than allowing the patient to suck ice, as the act depends upon exhausting the air from the buccal cavity, whicli in its turn would probably favour the flow of blood from the open vessels. But out of over five thousand cases of adenoids upon which I have operated, I have never once had to plug the postnasal space for hfemor- rhage, though on one or two occasions I have feared it might become necessary. When the tonsils bleed more than I like I apply a styptic paste, which I have found very efficacious. It consists of equal parts of tannic and gallic acids and powdered matico leaves, worked into tlie consistence of a pill-mass with glycei-ine. A piece of this paste, the size of a filbert or less, can readily be held in the first two fingers of either hand, and rubbed into the bleeding tonsil. In no other way can an astringent be properly applied, the painting or rubbing on with brush or pledget of cotton-wool of a solution of per- chloride of iron being altogether futile in my experience, and very disgusting to the patient. Sponging is seldom needed during the opera- tion, unless it is found, after removing one or both tonsils, that the patient is not sufficiently anaesthetised to proceed without the exhibition of more chloroform. Should it prove desirable to swab out the pharynx, it is best done with as large a sponge as can be easily thrust into the pharynx with the forefinger, as by so doing more of the accumulated fluid is swept out, and there is less risk of contusion than when hold- ing a small sponge on a holder. Indeed, it is only when overmuch sponging is employed, perhaps by a nervous and over-zealous anaes- thetist, that real soreness of the throat is com- plained of afterwards. And where the bleeding is severe, and we are inclined to stop in the process of removing the adenoids until it is arrested, we must remember that the oppor- tunity of spontaneous cessation lies in com- pletion of the operation. We may consequently affirm that the more profuse the haemorrhage the greater the necessity for a speedy operation. But besides the fact that the amount of blood lost is in direct proportion to the length of time occupied over the operation, there are two other, and quite as strong, reasons for expedition. The first is found in the risk of blood finding- its way into the Eustachian tubes and middle ears, and by its retention inducing an otorrhoea and perforation of the tympanic membrane, and the second lies in the increased risk of a local or general sepsis. For doubtless the more the wounded parts are handled or bruised, the less becomes their power of resistance, and the greater the liability to infection; while the longer the nasopharyngeal cavity is kept full of blood, the greater the risk of its entering the Eustachian tubes. As a matter of fact, rise of temperature is an event of the rarest even when, as sometimes happens, one operates under septic conditions in the neighbourhood, such as otorrhoea, or a chronic follicular tonsillitis. Indeed, although 1 have not infrequently had to operate under such disadvantages, I do not remember that I have ever noticed a rise in temperature that could be traced to such direct cause. Nevertheless everything should be done to secure as clean a condition of the environment as possible. A discharge from the ear should be washed out