470 PHARYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS pharyngitis sicca of an extensive nature it is as well to examine the urine for sugar. In myxoedema the mucous membrane of the pharynx and adjacent soft parts may become thickened and oedematous, and give rise to symptoms of chronic pharyngitis which bring the patient to the throat clinic. Pathology.—In sections taken from the less advanced cases, the prominent change met with is a proliferation and dilation of the blood- vessels beneath the mucous membrane; the hypersemia is distinct from that met with in acute pharyngitis, inasmuch as it is less intense and less diifuse. Owing to this local hyper- nutrition an increase of the lymphadenoid tissue of the mucosa takes place, and thickening results. A hyperplasia of the connective tissue also occurs, and is a factor in the increase of the mucous membrane, more particularly about the pillars and recesses of the fauces, and the lateral wall of the pharynx, giving rise to the condition known as pharyngitis lateralis. A more or less dense small cell proliferation ac- companies this form of hyperplastic fibrous tissue, and may extend into the deeper layer amongst the muscle fibres, and so be a factor in the impaired mobility and accommodation of the pharyngeal muscles for vocal purposes. In other sections from the same pharynx atro- phic patches are met with in which the lymph- adenoid tissue is reduced in amount, and the connective tissue is also atrophied. Various changes are met with in the epithe- lium. This in places may be thinned, or even ulcerated over congregations of lymphadenoid tissue, and in other places it may be thickened, giving rise to white patches. The follicles may iindergo caseous degeneration (follicular pharyngitis) and give rise to minute follicular ulceration. General Symptomatology.—It is interesting to note that in the larynx gross changes, such as paralysis of a cord or a new growth, may develop and exist for some time without giving rise to any symptoms, and perhaps only acci- dentally be detected; whereas a comparatively slight lesion in the pharynx will cause a patient to seek relief at a time, perhaps, when the departure from the normal may be so slight as to escape notice at a superficial examination. The symptom usvially complained of is dis- comfort, or an unpleasant sensation in the throat. This is variously described as a sense of a foreign substance necessitating a constant clearing, or inability to clear the throat, and irritating cough. At times the discomfort is spoken of as an aching or dragging sensation, which may be referred to a level as low as the interclavicular notch. The discomfort seldom amounts to pain, but pain of a shooting character passing up to the ears may be com- plained of. In the hypertrophic form, with much secretion of mucus, a soreness in the throat is experienced; if the atrophic condition predominates a dryness is mentioned. These symptoms are usually more marked on rising and after prolonged use of the voice. At times a sense of impending suffocation in sleep may be the cause of treatment being sought. The subjects of chronic pharyngitis have not uncommonly experienced symptoms for some time when they come under observation. The one symptom above all others which decides the sufferer to seek relief is impairment of vocal power: it may be hoarseness, or it may not amoimt to more than weakness or un- certainty of voice. During the more acute exacerbations dysphagia may be present. The Objective Evidence and Diagnosis.—Too much stress cannot be laid upon the necessity of examining the buccal cavity thoroughly, and with a good reflected light, in order that a precise knowledge may be obtained of the con- dition giving rise to the distressing symptoms, and the cause removed. In the chronic catarrhal and hypertrophic variety the tongue is usually coated and dirty, the uvula may be swollen and elongated, the adjacent parts of the soft palate and fauces congested, the tonsils inflamed and oedematous, the patient most intolerant to examination, and readily retching at the approach of a tongue depressor. In a less acute stage the naked-eye evidences of morbid action in the mucous membrane lining the naso- and oro-pharynx may be so slightly marked, or so hidden, as at first glance to escape observation. The mucous membrane may be found to be reddened and studded with nodular excrescences of about the size of a pin's head, and not exceeding that of a split mustard- seed. They may be so closely set as to give a papillomatous appearance, or the mucous membrane may be unevenly hypertrophied, and thrown up into irregular ridges. The surface may be unduly moist, owing to excessive secretion, and covered with a film of saliva and minute air bubbles, or it may be unnaturally dry. In the latter case the membrane is thinned, smooth, and glazed, having a parch- ment appearance, and constitutes the condition of atrophic pharyngitis, or pharyngitis sicca. In this form nasal secretion can often be seen dry and adherent in the upper parts. This atrophic condition in one part may be associated with a hypertrophic condition in another, so that the classification of the various forms of chronic pharyngitis usually described breaks down. The tonsils commonly share in the morbid process, and should the patient retch in the course of the examination, the lateral walls of the pharynx will be brought into view, and may be present as red thickened bands (pharyngitis lateralis). It has already been said that the naked- eye evidences of morbid changes may be so