PAKALYSIS 310 may be expected when the lesion is supra- nuclear, and least when the nucleus is involved. When cases that are due to vascular lesions are under consideration, it must be remembered that both thrombosis and embolism may recur, and that although recovery may result after one attack a fatal issue may be determined by some future attack. The chronic degenerative form of bulbar paralysis always terminates in death, and that usually within two years from the onset of symptoms. Extra-medullary lesions are less serious than intra-medullary, and owing to the possible beneiicial influences of treatment, syph- ilitic affections are the least serious. Tumours in this situation are usually rapidly fatal. Treatment.—In cases of sudden onset, when there is reason to suppose that thrombosis con- sequent on syphilitic arteritis is the cause of the bulbar symptoms, energetic treatment by mercury and iodide of potassium ought to be adopted. Apai-t from this the principal things to be attended to in acute cases are the feeding of the patients and the treatment of the paralysis that remains after the acute stage of the illness is over. When the patient is unable to swallow he must be fed by the nasal tube. The jjara- lysis calls for no special treatment wheia the lesion is supra-nuclear ; but when it is nuclear or infra-nuclear the muscles atrophy, therefore the constant current ought to be applied daily to all the affected parts. Of internal remedies strychnia, iron, and quinine are most useful, and the strychnia may be given with advantage by subcutaneous injection, when there are indica- tions of respiratory or cardiac failure during the acute stage of the disease. The points to be attended to in the treatment of cases of chronic progressive bulbar paralysis have already been indicated (see p. 307). In chronic cases in which the lesion is infra-nuclear, antisyphilitic treatment by mercury and iodide of potassium has to be relied on, in the hope that the condition may prove to be syphilitic. Similarly in children cod-liver oil, malt, iron, and other tonics are administered owing to the possibility that a tumour may be tuberculous. The only other treatment that is possible is sur- gical intervention in extra-medullary tumours. IV. Paralysis with Tremor or Ataxy Disseminated Sclerosis.—Definition.—A dis- ease in which areas of sclerosis are scattered irregularly throughout the nervous system, and in which the most characteristic symptoms ai-e a combination of spastic and ataxic paraplegia, loss of control over the sphinctei's, notably that of the bladder, weakness with intention tremor in the arms, nystagmus, optic nerve atrophy, and scanning speech. Etiology.—Hereditai'y transmission of the dis- ease has only been very exceptionally observed. More often there is an indirect neuropathic inheritance in the form of some other nervous disease that has attacked some of the patient's ancestors. Young adults are most commonly affected between the ages of twenty and thirty years, and it is quite exceptional for the disease to commence later than forty. Cases have been described in children, but there seems little doubt that the majority, if not all that were recorded by earlier writers, were not genuine. Owing to the protracted course of the malady few of the suspected cases came to autopsy in childhood, and those that did, and that were supposed to establish the occurrence of the disease in children, are now discredited. Competent observers have, however, since recorded cases of the affection in children, and in some instances it has been possible to trace symptoms of the affection met with in adults back to childhood for their com- mencement. One sex is as liable to be attacked as is the other, though in the statistics of dif- ferent observers one or the other preponderates. There has been a strong tendency among modem writers on the subject to regard the disease as due to the action of toxic agents on the nervous system, and Oppenheim considers that certain occupations where people are impregnated with metallic poisons, notably lead, are responsible for some cases of the disease. Alcohol has been credited with a similar influence. But in that it is quite impossible to discover any evidence of such intoxications in the large majority of people attacked, some more subtle influence probably underlies the pathology, even in those cases where toxic agents are accessory factors in causation. The infective fevers have been supposed to supply the intoxication, and prominent among those suspected of this have been enteric fever, influenza, and malaria ; but it is obviously diffi- cult to disprove that these febrile illnesses have not merely lighted into activity a morbid process that had its inception at some antecedent period. There seems little doubt that the cases supposed to be the outcome of malaria have not been genuine, but that they have merely presented a group of nervous symptoms, consequent on the intoxication, which have resembled the mani- festations of disseminated sclerosis. Rheumatism and pneumonia have each preceded the appear- ance of the disease in a few cases, and some observers have attempted to establish an etio- logical i-elationshij) between syphilis and dis- seminated sclerosis, but there seems to be little justification for this. The antecedent disease may be some affection of the nervous system, most often some form of myelitis. Blows and injuries have been regarded as causes, as have exposure to cold and chills ; indeed, some observers have considered the latter influences as the most common causes of the malady. It is, however, obviously difficult to exclude the possibility that trauma or cold only serve to stimulate into activity some pre-existing