PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM 504 traction kept up by the action of the nervous system. If the nerve to a group of muscles be cut, the muscles become soft and flabby and lose thek^^tense feeling. 3. Heat Production.—Muscle, like all other M. triceps tlong bead) M. triccpa Kilmer head) Eld. 16.—Curare experiment to show sciatic nerves exposed to curare, but nerve endings protected on the left side ; while on the right side the curare is allowed to reach the nerve endings in the muscle. living protoplasm, is in a state of continued chemical change, constantly undergoing decom- position and reconstruction. As a result of this chemical change, heat is evolved. But the heat evolved during rest of muscle is trivial. 4. Electrical Conditions. — Muscle when at rest is iso-electric, but if one part is injured, it acts to the rest like the zinc plate in a galvanic battery — becomes electro - positive ; and hence, if a wire passes from the injured to the uninjured part round a galvanometer, a current is found to flow along the wire from the un- injured to the injured part, just as, when the zinc and copper plates in a galvanic cell are connected, a cur- rent flows through the wire from copper to zinc. This is the Current of Injury. 2. Muscle in Action A. Skeletal Muscle.—1. Methods of making Muscle Contract.—Skeletal muscle remains at rest indefinitely until stimulated to contract, usually by changes in the nerves. We de- sire to contract our biceps : certain changes occur in our brain ; these set up changes in the nerves passing to the biceps, and the muscle contracts. Can skeletal muscle be made to contract without the intervention of nerves — can it be directly stimu- lated ? To answer this, some means of throwing the nerves out of action must be had recourse to. If curare, a South American arrow poison, be injected into an animal—e.g. into a frog, the brain of which has been destroyed—it soon loses the power of moving. When the nerve to a muscle is stimu- lated, the muscle no longer contracts. But, if the muscle be directly stimulated by any of the various agents to be afterwards mentioned, it at once contracts. It might be urged that the curare leaves un- poisoned the endings of the nerve in the muscle, and that it is by the stimulation of these that the muscle is made to contract. But that these are poisoned is shown by the fact that if the artery to the leg be tied just as it enters the muscle, so that the poison acts upon the whole length of the nerve except the nerve endings in the muscle, stimulation of the nerve still causes muscular contraction. Only when the curare is allowed to act upon the nerve endings in the muscle does stimulation of the nerve fail to pro- duce any reaction in the muscle, while direct stimulation of the muscle causes it to contract. This clearly shows that it is the nerve endings which are poisoned by curare, and that therefore the application of stimuli to the muscle must act directly upon the muscular fibres (Fig. 16). Muscle, however, is more readily stimulated through its nerves, and a knowledge of the points of entrance of the nerves into muscles, Ulnar n,^ M. Qcxor carpi alooris fiC flex. digltor.commuD. profnod. 21. flex, digitor. sublim. (digiti H, et IlL) IL flex, digit, subl. (digit. Ludicis et minimi) Ulnar n. U. nalmaris brcT. M. abilactor digiti mio. M. flexor digit, mln DLcpponens digit, mio. Urn. lumbricales | M. fkx. digitor. subUm. M. Qcx. potUcis loDgus M. abUoctoi ponio. JJJCT. M. ODpancna puLiicL> hL flex. poJl. breT M. addactor pollK:. htci Fig. 17.—Motor points of arm. the mo^or points, is of importance in medicine in indicating the best points at which to apply electrical stimulation (Fig. 17). Various means may be used to make the muscle contract. 1st. Various chemical substances when applied