519 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM Very interesting results follow from this fact that the activity of neurons is made manifest by changes in the structures to which they pass. Langley has demonstrated that if the vagus, which conducts downwards to the ab- dominal viscera, be cut, and the cervical sym- pathetic, which conducts upwards to the head, be also cut, and the central end of the vagus united to the peripheral end of the sympathetic, fibres grow outwards from the vagus into the sympathetic, and when the vagus is stimulated, the results which naturally follow stimulation of the sympathetic occur. Kennedy has shown that, if the nerves to the flexors and the nerves to the extensors of a dog's forelimb be cut, and the central end of the former united to the peripheral end of the latter, and vice versd, co-ordinate movements occur, and that if that part of the brain which naturally causes exten- sion be stimulated, flexion occurs. He has applied the information thus gained to the treatment of abnormal conditions in the human subject. In a woman who suffered from spas- modic action of the muscles of the face supplied by the seventh cranial nerve, he divided this nerve and connected its peripheral end with the central end of the spinal accessory and thus secured a complete recovery. (c) Electrical Changes. — The part of the that the change, whatever it is, does not develop simultaneously throughout the neuron, but, starting from one point, be it at one end or in the middle, travels or is conducted along. The rate of conduction may be determined— \st. By stimulating a nerve going to a muscle at two points at known distances from one N T Fig. 39.—jU, Muscle attached to crank lever marking on revolving drum. The secondary ch-ouit of an induction coil is connected with a commutator, with the crossed wires removed so tliat the current may be sent either through the wires going to the nerve at A far from the muscle, or at B, a point at a measured distance nearer the muscle. On the drum, A repre- sents the onset of contraction on stimulating at A, and B the onset on stimulating at B. To secure stimulation in each case with the drum in the same position, the make and break of the primary circuit is caused by the point K touching and quitting the point P. neuron in action is electro-positive to the rest of the neuron, just as the contracting part of a muscle is electro-positive to the rest. 3. Conducfio7i in JVeurons.—When a neuron is stimulated at any point, some time elapses before the result of the stimulation is made manifest, and the farther the point stimulated is from the structure acted upon, the longer is this latent period. This of course indicates Fig. 40.—N, A piece of a nerve connected by non-polarisable electrodes to the galvanometer, G. By an induction coil it may be stimulated at A. And when the nerve impulse reaches a, a deflection of the galvanometer needle takes place. another, and measuring the difference of time which elapses between the contraction resulting from stimulation at each (Fig. 39). 2nd. By taking advantage of the fact that the active p.art of a neuron—like the active »» >, part of a muscle—is electro-positive or " zincy" to the rest, and by finding how long after stimulation at one point this electric change reaches another point at a measured distance from it (Fig. 40). The rate of conduction varies con- siderably ; everything stimulating pro- toplasmic activity accelerating, and everything depressing protoplasmic ac- tivity diminishing it. Under normal conditions in the fresh nerve of the frog, the nerve change travels about 33 metres per second. Factors modifying Conduction. ■—- Conduction is modified by the tempera- ture. Cooling a nerve lowers its power of conduction, gently heating it in- creases it. Various drugs which diminish protoplasmic activity — e.g. chloroform — diminish conduction. The electric current acts diff"erently on conduction and on excitability. While a weak current has little or no effect, a strong current markedly decreases conductivity round the positive pole, and to a less extent decreases it at the negative pole, so that the general effect of a strong current is to decrease conductivity. From this influence of the electric current upon excitability and conductivity certain diff'er- ences are to be observed in the effects of stimulating an exposed nerve with currents of various strengths and different directions down-