ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 190 termed "alternating enophthalmos and exoph- thalmos," and by French writers, "exophtalmie a volonte." This unusual aiTection occurs chiefly in the young, and often develops sud- denly. When once established the exoph- thalmos can always be induced by stooping. When the head is erect, the position of the eye- ball may be normal, but in the majority of instances there is a varying degi'ee of enoph- thalmos. The movements of the globe are un- restricted, and vision is usually unimpaired. The pathology of this condition is still im- perfectly understood. As the exophthalmos can be induced by compression of the jugular vein, and as dilated veins are occasionally visible through the skin of the lids, a varicose condition of the orbital veins is assumed to be present. In some recorded cases a varicose tumour could be felt in the orbit. The enoph- thalmos generally present indicates shrinking of the cellular tissue of the orbit. So long as the exophthalmos remains inter- mittent no treatment is necessary. The patient soon learns to avoid such positions or muscular efforts as induce proptosis, or to prevent its development by pressure over the eyeball. Orchi-.—In compound words orchi- (Gr. °PX'5> ^ testicle) means relating to the testicle; e.g. orchialgia (neuralgic pain in the testicle), orchidoncus (a tumour of the testicle), etc. Orchidectomy. — Excision of the testicle or castration. See Scrotum and Tes- ticle, Diseases of {Excision of Testicle). O rc h i d i n. — A proprietary preparation made from the testicle, and believed to act as a nerve tonic. Orchidopexy or Orchidor- rha.phy.—Fixation of the testicle by sutur- ing it to neighbouring parts. Orchidotherapy.—The use of orchitic extracts in the treatment of disease. See Opotherapy. Orchidotomy.—Incision of the testicle. Orchitis.—Inflammation of the testicle. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Inflam- mation of the Testicle). See also Mumps {Com- jdications, Metastatic Orchitis); Syphilis (Vis- ceral, Genito-urinary); Syphilis {Syphilis in Children, Inflammation of Testes); Undulant Fever {Symptoms, Sexual System); Urethra, Diseases of {Gonorrhoea, Complications). Ore in.—A substance obtained from various species of lichens {Roccella, Lecanora, Vario- laria), having a dark colour (Lat. orcus, Pluto or death), and a formula of CeH3(OH)2CH3; it is used as a test for glycuronic acid or xylose in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes IN {Aromatic Substances). Orexi ne. — Phenyldihydroquinazolin hy- drochloride (Cj^Hj2N2HCl), given in doses of 4 to 7 grains to increase the appetite (Gr. ope^ts, a longing or appetite); the tannate is used for the same purpose and in sea-sickness. Orezza.. See Balneology {France, Corsica). Org'an.—An individual part or combina- tion of parts of the body, performing a piece of physiological work, known as a function, and regarded from the point of view of physiology rather than of anatomy; an organism is an assemblage or aggregation of organs. Org^an of Corti. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear, Membranous Cochlea). Org-an of Giraides. — The para- didymis, a rudimentary body lying above the globus major of the epididymis. Org^an of Golg^i. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Receptor Mechan- isms, Muscle Sense). Orgfan of JaCObSOn.—A rudimentary organ in the septum nasi a little above and in front of the recessus naso-palatinus. Org^an of Rosenmulier. — The parovarium or epoophoron lying in the broad ligament of the uterus; Rosenmulier himself called it the corpus conicum. See Generation, Female Organs of {Parovarium). Org^anOg^enesiS. — The formation of the various organs of the body; that part of embryology which deals with the development of the individual organs. Org^anotiierapy.—The use, as medi- cines, of the organic extracts, e.g. thyroid extract, suprarenal extract, etc.; opotherapy. See Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment of {Organotherapjy). Organs. See Generation, Female Organs of ; etc. Orgl'asm. — A state of violent activity, with turgescence, of a part of the body or set of organs, and especially that associated with the acme of sexual excitement in coitus (Gr. opyaetv, to swell). Oriental Boil or Sore. See Fur- UNCULUS Orientalis. Orientation. — Literally, this term is used to express the arranging of something so as to face the East; in medicine, it is more commonly used to mean the arrangement of structures {e.g. embryos, microscopic sections, etc.) relatively to the points of the compass or to other parts or structures; adjustment;