PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAK MECHANISM 512 Relationship of Heat Production to Work Pro- duction.—Since it is possible to measure both the mechanical work done by a muscle and the amount of energy dissipated as heat, it is pos- sible to determine the relationship of these to one another, and thus to compare muscle with other machines as to proportion of energy which is utilised to produce work. To make this com- parison it is necessary to be able to convert " work units" into "heat units," and vice versa. It has been found that 045 gram-degrees or small calories are equivalent to 1 kilogram- metre. The proportion of work to heat is not con- stant. By gradually increasing the stimulus both work production and heat production are increased, but the latter is increased more rapidly, and reaches its maximum sooner. Again, as muscle becomes exhausted, its heat production declines more rapidly than its work production. Exhausted muscle, therefore, works more economically. If an unloaded miiscle is made to contract no work is done and all the energy is given off as heat, and the same thing happens where a muscle is so loaded that it cannot contract when stimulated. But the point of practical importance to determine is—How much of the energy liberated by muscle in normal conditions is usually used for mechanical work, and how much is lost as heat 1 It will afterwards be shown that all the energy of the body comes from the food, and the amount of energy yielded by any food may be determined by burning it in a calorimeter. To determine the energy used in mechanical work some form of work measurer or ergometer may be used—e.c/. a wheel turned against a measured resistance. By converting the work units of the work thus done into heat units, and subtracting this from the total energy of the food, the energy lost as heat may be determined, and thus the relationship between work pro- duction and heat production may be found. By experiments on men, horses, and dogs, Zuntz has found that about one-third of the energy liberated may, under favourable conditions, be available for mechanical work, while two-thirds is lost as heat. The proportion of energy evolved in mechanical work and heat in normal men has been also studied by Atwater by means of the Respiratory Calorimeter. In these ex- periments only about 6 per cent of the energy was used for mechanical work and the rest was lost as heat. Compared with other machines, such as steam-engines, muscle must be regarded as an economical worker, and it has the ad- vantage that the heat liberated is necessary to maintain the temperature at which the chemical changes which are the basis of life can go on. VI. Electrical Changes in Muscle.—When a muscle contracts certain electrical changes occur. These may be best studied in the heart, which is a muscle which can be exposed without in- jury. With other muscles the injury inflicted in isolating them sets up electrical currents of injury. If one end of a wire be brought in contact with the base of the ventricle by means of a non-polarisable electrode (in which some material which does not act upon the muscle and is not acted upon by the muscle is in contact with it), and another wire be similarly connected with the apex, and if these wires are led off round a galvanometer, it will be found that with each contraction of the heart an electric current is set up, the one part of the heart becoming first positive and then negative to the other part. This means that, when the contraction occurs, the part which first contracts becomes of a higher electric potential than the rest of the muscle, so that electricity flows from it to the uncontracted part in the organ, and from the uncontracting part to the contracting part in the wire round the galvanometer. The con- s' a b Fig. 30.—To SHOW electric current ot action In a muscle (a) com- pared witli that in a galvanic cell (6). The contracting part of the muscle is shaded. (3) Galvanometer. tracting part is thus siinilar to the positive element of a battery, the zinc; the uncontracting part to the negative element, and the wire coming from the contracting part will, therefore, correspond to the negative pole—that from the uncontracting part to the positive pole. It has now been shown that this current of action occurs along with, and does not precede, the period of contraction. The electric change in contracting muscle may be demonstrated by laying the nerve of one muscle-nerve preparation over the muscle of another muscle-nerve pre- paration or over the beating heart, when it will be found that the first muscle contracts with each contraction of the second, being stimulated by the current of action. VII. Extensibility of Muscle. — The extensi- bility of muscle is increased during contraction so that the application of a weight causes a greater lengthening than when the muscle is at rest. 3. The Chemical Changes in Muscle and the Sou7-ce of the Energy evolved Chemical changes are constantly going on in muscle, and the study of these chemical changes in resting muscle and in the contracting muscle explains the source of the energy of muscle. Disintegration leads to the liberation of energy.