PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES A.ND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 542 others, they tend to put beside it green wools. The condition is of great importance to engine- drivers and seamen. Colour-blindness for yellow and blue is very rare. (II.) Binocular Vision By the fact that there are two eyes instead of only one, the following advantages are attained :— 1. The Field of Vision is increased, but is not doubled. This is shown in Fig. 67, where the L.FY Fig. 67.—The field of vision in binocular vision. The two eyes are directed to a point, A. The field of vision of the right eye subtends the angle formed by the continuous lines, and that of the left that subtended by the dotted lines. The overlap of the fields is shown on the surface looked at, and in the figure below, B..F. V. and L.F. V. two eyes are directed to a spot A, and where the field of vision of the right eye is indicated by continuous lines, that of the left eye by dotted lines. The two fields greatly overlap, and the central part is common to the two eyes. In animals where the eyes are placed laterally, the two fields are independent. 2. A mechanism is afforded for the deter- mination of the distance of near objects, because as an object is approached, the two eyes have to be turned inwards by the internal recti muscles, and by the degree of contraction of these an estimation of the distance is made. The importance of this may be demonstrated by fixing a stick vertically, rapidly walking up to it with one eye shut, and endeavouring to touch it with the finger. 3. A means of determining the solidity of an object is afforded, because if the object is near, a slightly different picture is given on each retina, and ex- perience has taught us that this stereoscopic vision indi- F7! M *'*';^stor°"'°^'"' cates solidity (Fig. 68). Corresponding Areas of the Two Retina;.—In order that with the two eyes single vision may occur, the eyes must be directed to the same place, so that the image of that place falls on each central spot. If this does not occur, double vision results. The central spot of one eye thus corresponds to the Fig. 69.—Corresponding areas of the two retinse in binocular vision. The upper and outer area of the right retina corresponds to the upper and inner area of the left retina, and the other areas correspond as shown by the shading. In each pair of areas definite points correspond with one another, a—a. central spot of the other, and certain points in each retina have corresponding points in the other which are stimulated by the same part of the picture when the eyes are working together (Fig. 69). Movements of Eyeballs.—To secure this har- monious action of the two retinse, it is necessary that the eyes should be freely mov- able. Each eye in its orbit is a ball and socket joint in which the eyeball moves round every axis (Fig. 70). The axis of the eye (a) is directed straight forward and is set obliquely to the axis of the orbit {b), and the centre of rotation is be- hind the centre of the ball. The movements are produced by three pairs of muscles. 1. The internal and external recti, IR. and Ex.R. 9 TVio Qimorinv FIG. 70.—The left eyeball in the orbit, 4. 1 ne b uperiui ^.^j^ ^j^^ muscles acting upon it. and inferior recti acting along the lines indicated S.R. 3. The superior and inferior obliques acting in the line S.ob. The internal rectus rotates the pupil inwards. „ external „ „ „ outwards. i upwards „ superior „ „ „ < and in- ( wards. I downwards „ inferior „ „ „ I and in- I wards. i downwards < and ou ( wards. „ superior oblique „ „ <! and out- ,, inferior ,, ,, „ i upwards < and out- ( wards. In directing the eyes to the right, the external rectus of the right eye acts along with the internal rectus of the left. In directing the eyes straight upwards, the superior rectus and inferior oblique of each eye act together; and in looking downwards, the inferior rectus and superior oblique come into play (Fig. 71). Relationship of the Optic ^a;es. — When a distant object is looked at, the axes of the two eyes may be considered as parallel; but as an object is approached to the eyes, the axes con-