PES ANSEEINUS 440 gland after its exit from the skull by the stylo- mastoid foramen. Pes Ca,VUS. See Deformities (Club- Foot, Talipes Arcuatus); Fascia {Contraction of Plantar Fascia). Pes Hippocampi.—The anterior end of the hippocampus major of the brain. See Brain, Physiology of [Lateral Ventricle). Pes Planus. — Flat-foot. See Defor- mities [Flat-Foot). Pessaries.—Mechanical supports, especi- ally of the uterus and vaginal walls; medicated pessaries are generally vaginal suppositories. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor [Pro- lapsus Uteri, Treatment); Pregnancy, Affec- tions OF Generative Organs [Retroversion of Gravid Uterus. Treatment); Uterus, Displace- ment OF [Prolapse, Anteversion, Anteflexion, Retroversion, Retroflexion, Treatment by Pes- saries). PesSUS. — A vaginal suppository or medicated pessary. Pest a iVlagrna. See Smallpox [History). Pest is. See Plague [Synonyms). Pest is IVIinor.—The ambulant variety of plague. See Plague [Types). Petechias are small crimson or purple spots met with in the cutaneous or mucous surfaces of the body, due to the transudation of the colouring matters of the blood from the capillaries into the adjacent tissues. They must be differentiated from simple hypersemia, and also from flea-bites. Hypertemia is dis- tinguished by the colour fading on pressure, whereas in petechia it remains, though perhaps in a less degree. A flea-bite may be distin- guished by observing the central puncture due to the bite. In themselves petechise have no clinical importance, and call for little comment and less treatment. But they have significance from the standpoint of the toxaemia, which is invariably their cause. Their presence indi- cates weakened or ruptured capillaries, and this weakening or rupture is significant of the action of toxic substances in the capillary wall; and the questions that present themselves to the practitioner are—(1) What relationship, if any, do these small visible haemorrhages bear to the various symptoms from which the patient suffers 1 (2) May the symptoms of a nervous or other nature be explained by the evidence of a similar weakening of the vessels in the central nervous system or elsewhere, and resulting failure of nutrition in the special tissue involved 1 Looked at from this standpoint petechiae may furnish assistance in diagnosis, may guide to prognosis, and be helpful in treatment. The occurrence of petechise and very acute toxaemiae, e.g. typhus, will be referred to under their special headings. See Meningitis, Epi- demic Cerebro-spinal [Skin Lesions); Purpura [Symptomatic Purpura, Purpura as a Disease, etc.); Relapsing Fever [Symptoms and Course); Smallpox [Symptoms, Prodromal Rashes); Ty- phus Fever [Period of Advance, Rash). Petechial Fever. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-spinal. Peters' Ovum.—An early human ges- tation sac which opened up several new subjects of interest in connection with human embry- ology. See Embryology [First Week), Petit, Canal of.—A lymph space be- hind the suspensory ligament of the crystalline lens of the eye. Petit, Hernia of.—Lumbar hernia, or hernia in the region known as the triangle of Petit (bounded by the iliac crest, the external oblique muscle, and the latissimus dorsi). Petit Mai. See Epilepsy [Symptoms, Le Petit Mai). See also Brain, Tumours of [Symp- toms, Convulsions, Diagnosis); Larynx, Neur- oses OF [Laryngeal Vertigo, Petit Mai); Memory IN Health and Disease [Temporary Complete Loss of Memory); Sleep, Normal and Morbid [Mo7'bid Somnolence). Petrifaction of Foetus. See Ectopic Gestation [Foetus after Ruptv/re); Lithop^dion. PetriSSag^e. See Massage. Petri's Sand Filter. —A means of separating microbes from the air for examination, quantitative and qualitative. Petro-.—In compound words petro- means relating to the petrous part of the temporal bone ; e.g. petro-sqvMmous suture, petro-mastoid process, etc. Petroleum. See Paraffin. Pettenkofer's Test.—A colour test for bile acids. See Urine, Pathological Changes in [Bile Acids). Pettenkofer's Theory.— The theory that epidemic cholera is associated with the level of the soil-water or ground-water. Peyer's Glands or Patches.— Groups of follicles in the small intestine named after J. K. Peyer, a Swiss anatomist (1653- 1712). See Intestines, Diseases of [Anatomy); Intestines, Diseases of (Ulcers of tJie Intestine); Physiology, Food and Digestion [Small In- testine, Mucous Membrane); Typhoid Fever [Morbid Anatomy, Intestinal Hcemorrhage).