145 OBSTETRICS Ovaries ; Paralysis (Infantile Spastic); Paro- varium; Parturition; Passages; "Passenger"; Pelvis ; Perineum ; Phenomena ; Phlegmasia ; Pica ; Placenta ; Plural Pregnancy ; Porro's Operation Position ; Post- Maturity ; Post- partum Haemorrhage ; " Powers "; *' Prague Grasp "; Precipitate Labour ; Pregnancy, Physiology ; Pregnancy, Pathology ; Preg- nancy, Intra-uterine Diseases of the F(etus ; Prematurity ; Presentations ; Preternatural ; Prolapsus Funis ; Pseudocyesis ; Puberty ; PuBioTOMY; Puerperium, Physiology ; Puer- PERiuM, Pathology ; Quickening ; " Restitu- tion "; Retention ; Rigidity ; Robert Pelvis ; RoEDBRER; Satchel, Obstetric ; Sclerema Neonatorum ; Sepsis ; Smellie Grasp ; Spina Bifida ; Spondylotomy ; Still-Birth ; Sub- involution ; Superfcetation ; Symphysiotomy ; Synclitism ; Syncytium ; Teratology ; Third Stage Hemorrhage ; Tractor ; Transverse Presentations ; Triplets ; Twins ; Umbilical Cord ; Uterus ; Vagina ; Vectis ; Version ; Vertex Presentations ; Vulva ; Walcher's Position ; Wet-Nursing ; " White Leg." ObStipa.tion.—Constipation of a severe or persistent type. Obstruent.—Obstructing or closing up the ducts or openings of the body; e.g. certain medicines which are supposed to do this, as opposed to deobstruent drugs which open up the same. Obstruction. See Intestines, Surgical Affections of [Intestinal Obstruction). Obturator.—That which closes or shuts up an opening or which is associated with the closing structure (Lat. obturai-e, to stop up), e.g. the obturator membrane of the thyroid foramen. See Hernia {Special, Obt%irator); Hip-Joint, Injuries {Dislocations, Obturator). Occipit£ll.—Relating to the occiput or hind part of the head, e.g. the occipital bone, the occipital lobe of the cerebrum, and the occipital protuberance. See Brain, Physiology of {Anatomy); Headache {Locality, Occipital) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Occipital Glands); Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Cerebrum). OcCipitO-.—In compound words occipito- means relating to the occiput, and is used, for instance, in naming the positions of the foetal head in labour, e.g. left occipito-anterior or right occipito-posterior position {see Labour, Diagnosis AND Mechanism, Vertex Positions), and in such terms as occipito-atloid (relating to the occiput and the atlas vertebra), occipito-bregmatic (re- lating to the occiput and the bregma or anterior fontanelle), occipito-frontal (relating to the oc- ciput and the frontal bone or area), occipito- VOL. VII mastoid, and occipito-mental (relating to the occiput and the chin). Occiput.—The back part of the head, as opposed to the forepart or sinciput (Lat. ob, against, caput, head). Occlusion•—The closing of an opening, e.g. of an artery ; imperforation. Occupation. See Neuroses, Occupa- tion ; Lunacy (Occupation); Lung, Tubercu- losis OF {Predisposing Factm^s, Occupation); Nails, Affections of {Injuries, Occupation); Tetany {Occuimtion-Spasm); Trades, Danger- ous ; Vital Statistics {Occupation and Mor- tality). OchiopilObia,.—A morbid fear of crowds (Gr. 6)(Xo<;, a crowd, (^0(^0%, fearing). OclironosiS.—A morbid condition de- scribed by Virchow as a peculiar black coloration of all the cartilages and ligaments of the joints of the body (Gr. wxP^i yellow ochre, vocro?, disease). Octa.n.—Returning every eighth day ; a term applied to a special form of intermittent fever. See Malaria. OctariuS. — A pint (abbreviation, 0), which is the eighth part of a gallon. Oct i para.—A woman who has given birth eight times. Ocular.—Relating to the eye. See Eye and cross-references. See also Brain, Tumours OF {Symptoms, Vertigo, Ocular); Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Ocular Ancesthesia); Ocular Muscles. Ocular Muscles, Affections of. Abnormal Position . . .146 Nystagmus . . . . . .147 Paralysis . . . . . .149 Symptomatology— Squint . . . .150 Double Vision . . .150 Faulty Projection . . .153 Diagnosis in— Etiology . . . .153 Prognosis . . .156 Treatment . . . .156 See also Strabismus ; Vertigo {Ocular). In connection with pathological conditions of the external muscular apparatus of the eye there are three chief possibilities, viz., an ab- normal position or development of one or more of the muscles, involuntary action of the muscles (nystagmus), and partial or complete paralysis of one or more of the individual muscles. 10