OHM 167 106-3 centimetres long and 14-4521 grammes mass. Oidiuin. See Micro-Obganisms {Blasto- mycetes, or Hyphomycetes). Oidium Albicans.—The fungus of thrush. See Expectoration (Vegetable Para- sites, Non-jMthogenic); Lungs, Parasitic Af- fections OF {As2:)ergiUosis, etc.); Micro-Organ- ISMS (Blastomycetes) ; Puerperium, Pathology (Nil^ples^ Sore); Stomatitis {Parasitic, Thrush). Oi do mycosis. — Disease due to blasto- mycetes. Oikophobia..—A morbid dread of home (Gr. oTkos, house or home, <^o^os fear). Oil-immersion Lens. See Micro- scope {Objectives). Oils.—In pharmacy, oils are of two kinds, fixed and volatile. The fixed oils are ethereal salts, that is, they are formed from fatty acids (oleic, palmitic, stearic, etc.) and the base C3H5 (glyceryl); they are obtained from vegetable structures (fruits, seeds) or from animal tissues by expression or boiling; they are soluble in ether or chloroform, they cause a greasy mark on paper, and they cannot be distilled without decomposition ; they form soaps (oleates, pal- mitates, stearates of metals) when acted on by caustic potash {sajw mollis), caustic soda {sapo diorus), and oxides of metals; and some of them are called drying oils because they easily become hardened into resins {e.g. linseed oil and cod- liver oil), while others are non-drying {e.g. almond oil, oil of male fern, olive oil, etc.). The volatile oils {essential oils) are mixtures of liquid hydrocarbons (elseoptens) with oxidised hydrocarbons (stearoptens) ; they are usually prepared (from herbs, seeds, etc.) by distilla- tion, a current of steam being passed through the materials ; they are soluble in ether and chloroform, but they cause no greasy mark on paper ; they are usually inflammable, and there are many of them in the Pharmacopoeia {e.g. oleum anethi, oleum anisi, oleum anthemidis, oleum limonis, oleum cajuputi, etc.). See also Pharmacology and under the various drugs, e.g. Anisi Fructus, Anthemidis Flores, Caryo- PHYLLUM, Castor Oil, Croton Oil, CuBEByE Fructus, etc. Oinomania.—A morbid_^ craving for alcohol, especially when there are intervals of freedom from the craving. See Alcoholic In- sanity, Dipsomania, etc. Oi ntmentS. — Pharmaceutical prepara- tions consisting of a fatty substance (lard, wax, paraffin, olive oil, etc.) mixed with a drug ; they are either rubbed into the skin or simply applied to it. There are many officinal un- guenta, including the unguentum zinci, the unguentum hydrargyri, the wnguentvmi plvmhi acetatis. See Mercury^, etc. OjoCaliente. /S'ee Balneology {America, California). Okme. See Balneology {Africa, Nubia). Okoi.—An antiseptic or disinfectant sub- stance containing cresol. Old Ag'e. See Senile Insanity {Normal Old Age); Invalid - Feeding {Food for the Aged). Old Maid's Insanity.—Ovarian in- sanity. Olea. See Oils. Oleate.—A salt of oleic acid, or, more often, a pharmaceutical preparation composed of alkaloids or metallic oxides or salts dissolved in oleic acid. Olecranon.—The projection of the elbow caused by the process {olecranon 2)rocess) at the upper end of the ulna; literally, it means the head or point of the elbow (Gr. (hXevrj, elbow, KpavLov, head). See Elbow-Joint, Injuries and Diseases of {Fracture of the Olecranon Process). Olefiant Gas. — Heavy carburetted hydrogen or ethylene (CgH^); with chlorine it forms an oily liquid, known as "Dutch oil." Olefine.—A series of hydrocarbons (in- cluding olefiant gas, q.v.) having the general formula C„ Hgn; in them, in contrast to the paraffins, the carbon atoms are not fully satis- fied, and they are therefore "unsaturated" compounds ; on this account they combine with chlorine, bromine, etc. to form dichlorides and dibromides, etc. Well-known olefines are ethy- lene (C.^H^), propylene (CgHg), butylene (C^Hg), amylene (CjHjq), etc. Oleic Acid.—Oleic acid {acidum oleicum) is one of the fatty acids (CisH3^02); it is, when pure, an oily, colourless, tasteless, and odourless liquid; it enters into the composition of fats and soaps, and, in the Pharmacopoeia, it is found in several unguenta {e.g. the Unguentum Veratrince), and plays the important part of forming oleates {q-v.). Oiein.—A natural fat, forming a colourless, oily liquid, and known in chemistry as trioleate of glyceryl, with the formula C3Hg(C^8H33 02)3 or CjyHjo^O,;. See Physiology, Tissues {Fats). Oleomargrarine or Oleo.—A sub- stance obtained from beef fat by pressure and solidification ; with the addition of butter, milk, or butyrin it forms a substitute for butter ; it used to be sold as butterine but is now called margarine, or, in the United States of America, oleo. See Margarine.