PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM 499 under the skin is of importance in protecting the deeper structures from injury. It is a cushion on which external violence expends itself. Further, this layer of subcutaneous fat prevents the loss of heat from the body, being, in fact, an extra garment. 2nd. Chemical.—Fat, on account of its great quantity of unoxidised carbon and hydrogen, is the great storehouse of energy in the body. (C) Pigment Cells.—In various parts of the eye the connective tissue and other cells contain a black pigment—Melanin. The precise mode of origin of this pigment is not known. It contains carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and it may also contain iron. It may be formed directly in the cells, or it may be produced by the cells from the pigment of the blood. Its function in the eye is to prevent the passage of light through the tissues in which it is contained. The cells containing the pigment are branched, and in many cases they possess the power of movement. This is specially well seen in such cells in the skin of the frog, where contraction and expansion may be easily studied under the microscope. By these movements the skin, as a whole, is made lighter or darker in colour. The movements of these cells are under the control of the central nervous system. 2. Lymph Tissue.—One peculiar modification of fibrous tissue is often described as a special tissue under the name of Lymph Tissue. It is composed of a delicate network of white fibres, the interstices of which communicate with lymphatic vessels, and contain masses of simple protoplasmic cells, lymphocytes, often in a state of active division. So numerous are these that it is impossible to make out the network under the microscope until they have been removed by' washing. Lymph tissue is very widely distributed throughout the body, and is of great importance in connection with nutrition. 3. Cartilage.—While fibrous tissue is the great binding medium of the body, support is afforded in foetal life and in certain situations in adult life by cartilage. When cartilage is to be formed, the embryonic cells become more or less oval, and secrete around them a clear pellucid capsule. This may become hard, and persist through life, as in the so-called parenchymatous cartilage of the mouse's ear. (1) Hyaline Cartilage. — Development, how- ever, usually goes further, and before the capsule has hardened the cartilage cells again divide, and each half forms a new capsule which ex- pands the original capsule of the mother cell, and thus increases the amount of the formed material. This formed material has a homo- geneous, translucent appearance, and a tough and elastic consistence, and cuts like cheese with the knife (Fig. 11). The formed material of cartilage is not a special substance, but a mixture of chondroitin- sulphuric acid with collagen in combination with proteins. Chondroitin when decomposed yields r£5S^»- Fig. 11.—Hyaline cartilage covered by periclioiiih ium. glucosamine, a sugar-like substance containing nitrogen, and glycuronic acid, another substance closely related to the sugars. Cartilage is surrounded by a fibrous mem- brane, the perichondrium, and frequently no hard and fast line of demarcation can be made out between them. The fibrous tissue gradually becomes less fibrillated—the cells become less elongated and more oval, as if the interfibrillar substance increased in amount and became of the same refractive index as the fibres. During old age a fibrillation of the homogeneous-looking cartilage is brought out, especially in costal cartilage, by the deposition of lime salts in the matrix, between the fibres. It was long ago shown that in inflammation of cartilage this fibrillation appears ; and by digesting in baryta water, a similar structure may be brought out. The close connection of cartilage with fibrous tissue is thus clearly demonstrated. Such homogeneous or hyaline cartilage pre- cedes most of the bones in the embryo, and covers the ends of the long bones in the adult (articular cartilage), forms the framework of the larynx and trachea, and constitutes the costal cartilages. (2) Elastic Fibro-Cartilage.—In certain situa- tions—e.g. in the external ear—a specially elastic form of cartilage is developed, elastic fibres appearing in the cartilaginous matrix, and forming a network through it. (3) White Fibro-Cartilnge. — In other situa- tions—e.g. the intervertebral discs—a combina- tion of the binding action of fibrous tissue with a padding action of cartilage is required; and here strands of white fibrous tissue with little islands of hyaline cartilage are found. It is also found when white fibrous tissue, as tendon, is inserted into hyaline cartilage, and is really a mixture of two tissues—white fibrous tissue and cartilage. 4. Bone.—The great supporting tissue of the adult is bone.