460 PHARMACOLOGY (28) Formic acid, and the Jormates of sodium, ammonium, and potassium have recently been reintroduced into medicine on account of their musculo-tonic and diuretic properties. It is stated that formic acid increases fivefold the power of doing muscular work, and that it abolishes fatigue. The effect is said to be a lasting one, enduring for several days after the drug is taken. The plain muscles and the heart are affected similarly to the voluntary ones. The salts are eliminated in the urine as formates, and have a diuretic action. The dose of sodium formate is from 10 to 15 grains; of formic acid, from 15 to 20 minims. The efficacy of the drugs is still sub jiidice. According to Goodall's researches their only action on the frog's heart, on muscle curves, and on ergographic tracings, is depressant. Clinical observers, on the other hand, have observed rise of blood pressure follow their administration in cardiac disease, and subjectively, at least, they are useful as tonics in conditions of debility. Pharmacomania.—A morbid craving for drugs. PharmaCOpceia.—An official work con- taining an account of the medicines commonly used, with their methods of preparation and their doses; there is a British Pharmacopoeia and a Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America. Pharmacy. — The science and art of preparing crude drugs for use as medicines, and for dispensing the same for therapeutic purposes. Pharyng^eal or Pharyngo-.—Re- lating to the pharynx ; e.g. a pharyngeal abscess, the pharyngeal t07isil, pharyngoscopy, etc. See Pharynx. Pharyng^ectomy. — Excision of the pharynx. PharyngismUS. — Spasm of the pharynx. Pharyngitis. See Pharynx, Pharyn- gitis, Acute. PharyngOCeie.—The term designates a diverticidum fi'om the pharynx. Such a diverticulum or pouch is exceedingly uncommon. The orifice connecting it with the cavity of the pharynx is usually at the lowest part of the pharynx posteriorly, whilst the pouch lies be- hind the pharynx or oesophagus and is directed downwards backwards, and, as a rule, to the left side. Probably the most correct view as to the origin of such a pouch is that it is due to defective closure of a visceral cleft, this supposi- tion being more satisfactory than the view according to which pharyngeal pouches are not congenital but acquired, whether by pressure from within or by traction from without, as oesophageal pouches are. A pharyngocele being, therefore, regarded as congenital has a definite relationship to branchial cysts {vide "Neck," vol. vi.) and congenital pharyngeal fistulse. The pouch is at first of small size no doubt, but in the course of years becomes slowly though steadily enlarged by pressure of food within it, and the pouch as it enlarges gradually extends downwards. Its size varies greatly in different cases, and it is sometimes pedunculated (vide Brit. Med. Journ., 1901, I. 1204). Its wall is formed by layers representing the mucous and submucous membranes of the pharynx, whilst if the pouch is of small size there is usually a muscular layer also. Symptoms.—The patient, in the great majority of cases, yet not invariably, is of the male sex, and it is seldom before middle life that the pouch has attained sufficient size to have been detected or to have caused inconvenience. When large enough, however, to do so, the chief symptoms are either interference with deglutition or such as are due to pressure on the trachea, blood-vessels, or recurrent laryngeal nerves. At the same time there is a soft, more or less tympanitic, swelling on the left side of the neck at its upper part, and this swelling can be emptied by pressure, when the contents will pass into the mouth or oesophagus. The con- dition is most likely to be mistaken for a stricture of the oesophagus, the possibility of which can be excluded by the passage of a bougie into the stomach, and only in the event of the instrument entering the pouch is there any difficulty in diagnosis. The only possible treatment is the surgical removal of the pouch. Phary ngOiary ngit is. — Inflam- mation affecting both the pharynx and the larynx. PharyngOmyCOSiS. See Pharynx, Examination of (Pharyngomycosis). PharyngOtomy. — The operation of incision into the pharynx. See Larynx, Malig- nant Disease of (Treatment, Operative). PharyngOXerosiS. — Dryness of the pharynx. Pharynx.—This subject is considered in the following sections :— 1. Examination of, and Anaemia, Foreign Bodies, etc 461 2. Acute Pharyngitis .... 46-5 3. Chronic Pharyngitis and Chronic Infective Diseases 468 4. Retropharyngeal Abscess . 474 See also Actinomycosis {Mouth and Pharynx); Asphyxia {Causes); Brain, Physiology of {Motor Areas); Children, Clinical Examina-