299 PARALYSIS child is very restless, the administration of bromide may considerably relieve these symp- toms. The ordinary treatment of the febrile condition which accompanies the disease should be adopted, and purgatives, salicylate of soda, and quinine may be given. Hyperpyrexia should be treated by tepid sponging. After the immediate acute stage has passed and the paralysis has become established, the inunction of mercury, the administration of belladonna, ergot, or iodide of potash seem some- times to have a beneficial effect. At a later stage strychnine may be given with advantage. The local treatment of the paralysed limb is at this stage most important, and that which is of the greatest moment is that the limb should be kept warm. As it has already been stated, there is very considerable vaso-motor disturb- ance, and the limb readily gets cold. Warmth should be kept up in the limb by friction with the dry hand, and in the intervals the limb should be covered in a loose-fitting- knitted stocking extending well above the paralysed part. Artificial warmth may with advantage be applied in the form of dry heat, but it is necessary to adjust the temperature with care, for, owing to the vaso-motor dis- turbances, burns which may be produced heal very slowly. In order to prevent deformity, it is well to place the leg at night into a light poroplastic or leather splint, so arranged that it shall keep the foot at right angles to the leg. Massage may with advantage be commenced as soon as the child is free from pain, in order to keep the muscles in as good a condition as possible while recovery is taking place. Passive movements form a most important part of this treatment, and should be carried out more frequently than the actual rubbing. It is well that such movements should be repeated at least three times a day. Resistance movements are also of importance, and even in a child who is unable to make any movement with the paralysed limb, it is well to make the child do the movements with the sound limb, with the object, if possible, of producing some movements in the paralysed limb. With regard to the application of the electric current much depends on the reaction of the muscles. If the paralysed muscles react to a faradic current of a moderate strength, its appli- cation may be beneficial, and can do no harm, except in so far as it tends to unduly develop the normal muscles, and eventually to increase the amount of contraction, owing to the in- equality in the strength of the muscles. If the paralysed muscles no longer react to faradic stimulation, but react to galvanism, then it is advisable to use that form of current, the positive or negative pole being applied to the muscle according to which evokes the better response. There is, however', one great difficulty connected with the constant current, and that is that most children strongly object to it; they will often stand a faradic current so strong that it will set the observer's muscles into tetanus, and yet they will not tolerate a galvanic current that will give rise to a contraction. Various methods can be adopted for its application, either direct with one electrode on the back and another on the limb, or by placing the child in a bath and pass- ing the current through the water. Although of service, too much importance should not be attached to the application of electricity, and if the child cannot stand the current sufiiciently strong to cause a contraction of the muscle, it had better not be persevered with. The treat- ment of the later stages of the disease is mostly surgical, and the only question that arises is the time at which an instrument for the support of the limb should be applied. There is no doubt that the power of recovery is prevented by the early application of an instrument. To say that instruments should not be worn for two years after the onset of the disease would be a too dogmatic statement if applied to all cases ; but if no deformity is produced, it is well to allow that time to elapse before an instrument for the support of the limb is ordered. Apart from instrumental support, various operative procedures may have to be resorted to—the division of tendons for the correction of deformity, arthrodesis, the transplantation of tendons, and in severe cases amputation may be advisable. Each case has to be judged by the extent of the paralysis and the defoi'mity pro- duced, and for details of operative procedure the reader is referred to some work on orthopaedic surgery. Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis in the Adult. —Acute anterior poliomyelitis in adults runs so different a course from the disease seen in the infant that it entails a separate descrij^tion. Not only is the course of the disease different, but its progress and prognosis are by no means so favourable. 07iset and Course. —The onset of the disease is usually attended by a rise in temperature. The loss of power does not occur with the suddenness that is seen in the case of infants, but manifests itself more gradually in the course of one or more days. The paralysis may, as in the infantile form, affect one limb, but more commonly it aifects both legs and both arms, spreading from the former to the latter. Such a palsy in the infant would probably show a tendency to rapid improvement, but not so with the adult; it remains stationary, or only slowly improves. Atrophy of the affected muscles rapidly occurs, while on electrical examination they show the reaction of degeneration. In advanced stages of the disease they undergo further change, and contracture occurs. Sensation remains intact; but even the pres-