PARASITES 342 Culex (C. pipieris, C. fatigans) is completed in about nine days. The development in the mosquito was first studied in the case of this parasite by Ross (1898), who was likewise the first to demonstrate the fact that birds acquire malaria solely by the bite of infected mosqiiitoes. Infection with this jjarasite causes among other signs, fever—which is not influenced by the administration of quinine—and anjemia, and not unfrequently terminates fatally. HcBmosporidia of the Human Subject. — 1. Malaria. The hsemosporidia are described in the article on malaria. 2. BlacJcivater fever is regarded as due either to a "malarial parasite," or more probably to a distinct, though as yet unknown species of the hiemosporidia (vide " Blackwater "). Sporozoa, probably Hoemosporidia, of other Mammals.—{a) The Ox. Bovine malaria is a disease which occurs in many countries. In Mexico, Carolina, and other adjacent parts, the disease is termed Texas fever (Syn. : Redwater fever). The description of the hsemosporidium, Pyrosoma bigeminum, causing Texas fever is largely based on the researches of Smith and Kilborne (1891 -93). The intracorpuscular parasite at an early stage is a small (2 ••5-4 /x x l"5-2 n) amosboid body of irregular form, and at a somewhat later stage often appears in the form of two pears joined by their stalks, whence the name. The asexual development of the intracorpuscular parasite is not yet fully in- vestigated, but it may be mentioned that Doflein (1901) considers that the pyriform bodies correspond to the crescents of the Plasmodia of human malaria. The disease is transmissible to healthy oxen by the injection of blood from an animal suftering from Texas fever, just as birds may be infected with avian malaria by the injection of the blood of other birds acting as the hosts of HaUeridium or Haimojjroteus, or as malaria of the human subject has been transmitted to healthy persons from those affected with the disease. Bovine malaria is, however, ordinarily transmitted by a species of tick (Boophilns bovis), within which, however, the development of the parasite has still to be investigated. The female tick having been fertilised, and having sucked the blood of the attected ox, and thus been infected with Pyrosoma bigeminum, falls from the animal on to the pastures. A few days later about 2000 eggs are laid, from which in about two to six weeks the daughter ticks escape. It is by them that other oxen are infected. The disease ap- pears in an acute or chronic form. In the former case the chief signs are pyrexia, hjEuio- globinuria, and severe antemia, whilst the chief pathological alterations observed post-mortem are those referable to the anjcmia, and also acute enlargement of the spleen, congestion of the liver, kidneys, stomach, and intestines. Dis- eases closely allied to, if indeed not identical with, Texas fever, and in every instance pro- pagated by ticks, have been recorded by Babes (1888-89, etc.) in Roumania, by Plana (1889-90) in Italy, by Celli and Santori (1897) in the Roman Campagna, by Jackschath (1901) in Pomerania, and by others in Finland, Sardinia, Portugal, South Africa, and East Africa ; whilst in other parts of the world many cases of the condition termed " Htemoglobinuria of the ox," or " Red water," are probably due to hsemo- sporidia. Many experiments have of late been undertaken with the object of rendering oxen artificially immune to Texas fever. To confer such immunity the animal must have been in- oculated with a mild form of the disease, either by the use on two occasions of 2-5 cc. of blood of a convalescent animal, or infection may be carried out by means of Boophilus bovis. The resulting fever is mild, lasts about seven days, and there is, it is claimed, subsequent specific immunity. This assumption should, however, be accepted with some reservation. (b) Other Animals.—The disease known as Cd7-ceag which affects sheep in the delta of the Danube, has been referred to haemosporidia by Babes (1888, etc.) and Starcovici (1893). A similar disease of sheep in the vicinity of Padua, described by Bonome (1894), and near Constan- tinople (Laveran and Nicolle, 1900), is regarded as due to intracorpuscular sporozoa. Haemo- sporidia have also been found in dogs by Leblanc, Marchoud (1900), and others ; in monkeys Koch found hsemosporidia closely similar to those causing human malaria ; in bats Dionisi found two forms which resembled respectively Plas- modium 7nalariw and Plasmodium pi'oecox of man; and, lastly, though the subject requires investigation, there are the hsemosporidia re- corded by Rickmann (1900) and others in South African horse sickness. III. Gregarinida may be dismissed briefly, having never been observed in a vertebrate host, and none being pathogenetic. IV. Amoebosporidia are parasitic in certain small beetles. Neosporidia.—These sporozoa form " spores," whilst the growth and existence of the in- dividual organism continues. The three orders included in this subclass are of importance chiefly from tlie standpoint of comparative pathology and biology. 1. Myxosporidia. are parasitic chiefly in fishes, also in rejjtiles and amphibia. 2. Of Microsporidia, one species causes pebrine disease in silkworms. 3. Sarco- sporidia. These are parasitic cliiefly in the striated muscles of mammals, but also in birds and reptiles. The size of diflfcrent species varies—often a few millimetres in length; they are usually cylindrical, and have a thick encap- sulating membrane, the cavity within being divided up by protoplasmic partitions which separate the "pansporoblasts" one from another. Within the pansporoblasts sickle-shaped sporo-