NEURASTHENIA 36 they depend upon their nerve-supply for the power to play their part in the drama of life. They live only by virtue of their nervous activity. In health the nervous force is sufficient for all the ordinary demands made upon it. We work and get tired ; we sleep and eat, and are again as new beings ready for another day's work. After some months of continuous work we are tired in a different way : the night's rest and the weekly day of rest do not suffice; we want change of scene and a sustained rest. With these we renew our force and are presently again ready to enjoy work. Even when we are consciously " tired " it is, as a rule, the fatigue of intellectual and volitional nerves, not that of the nerves governing our nutritive and eliminative functions. When these are " tired" and inclined to strike work we recognise that matters are serious, and we know that we are ill. What is it then precisely that happens when nerves, and especially the nerves of vegetative life, are "tired" and do not work^ What precisely is wrong when nerve force is exhausted, or even partially exhausted 1—when not only is intellectual work impossible to us, but when we cannot even digest because our nerves refuse their task? To answer these questions we have to know how the nerves work and how they are nourished. The modern conception of the nervous system has completely altered our views of its physi- ology, and to a large extent of its pathology. The primary conception to-day is of an essential unit, the nerve-cell and its processes. The unit is known as the " neurone"; the nerve- cell is believed to be directly and solely con- cerned with the nutrition of the whole unit or neurone, while the development of nervous energy takes place at the terminal network or arborisation at the end of the nerve-fibre, which network is in physiological but not anatomical continuity with the termination of other neurones. Every nerve-fibre, with the exception of those in the sympathetic nervous system, is enveloped in a myelin sheath, and the develop- ment of this sheath corresponds with the finiction of the fibre, and its degeneration precedes that of any other part of the fibre. Dr. Waller has apparently shown that the myelin sheath replenishes the energy or power of the fibre, and that it is this sheath which is the source of the inexhaustibility of the nerve. Every neurone is a living unit, and as such it has an endowment of a specific measure of vitality. It can be poisoned by certain toxines having special affinities for it, and certain neurones are much more easily affected by some poisons than by others, as is shown by the influence of syphilis, of alcohol, lead, arsenic, and strychnia on various parts of the nervous system. The paralyses which follow diphtheria, and the action of the poison de- veloped by the tetanus bacillus, are also familiar examples of the selective power of toxines over certain neurones. In each of these cases the poison seizes upon certain neurones almost to the exclusion of the rest. The selective power depends probably on some slight chemical difference in the composition of the cells of the various neurones. The poisons also differ much in the influence they exert on the germinal plasma, and through it on the next generation. Dr. Mott says: " Certain acquired conditions in the parents, affecting them especially at the time of conception, are liable to produce an inherent defect in the germinal plasma. They are acute and chronic alcoholism, syphilis, and tuberculosis." His researches go to show that a very large part of inherited imperfections or weakness of the nervous system results from these acquired conditions in the parents, and especially from the remote influence of syphilis and alcohol on the vitality of the neurones in the offspring.^ Of the two broad causes of neurasthenia, heredity and stress, heredity stands first, and, except in cases with a pronounced traumatic factor, all well-marked cases of acquired neurasthenia probably have in them an element of hereditary weakness. Again, the analogy with insanity is close. Hereditary neurasthenia then results from the inheritance of nerve-cells of inferior type with a poor endowment of vitality and of nutritional force. It is not necessary to suppose that the vitality or power of repair in the various neurones is never equally distributed. Some may be much better endowed than others, just as we know that the neurones that serve the organs of the special senses and the intellectual processes vary indefinitely in individuals, and in the varying states of health in the same individual. Those neurones in which the in- herited power of repair is small naturally break down in function more readily than do those which possess a better endowment of vitality. The symptoms of neurasthenia vary with the functions of the neurones affected, with the proportion of the well-nourished to the ill- nourished, and possibly with the measure of repair, imperfect as it may be, still possible to the least well-endowed neurones. For it does not appear to be common, looking at neuras- thenia from a clinical point of view, for in- herited or congenital neurasthenia to lead to the absolute loss of vitality of any of the neurones. They repair themselves badly, and function with difficulty and imperfectly, but they do not die. If they died there would not be weakness, but a slowly increasing paralysis. Thinking diagrammatically, we may picture to ourselves ten neurones assigned to one function. If five of the ten are nourished poorly, the function will be less perfectly performed than it ' Dr. Mott's Groonian Lectures on the Degeneration of the Neurone (1900).