PALATE 238 by very fine horse-hair, or by cat-gut, if that material be preferred. In Mirault's operation or its modifications the first deep suture is passed so as to draw the angle of the pared inner margin into that formed by the flap turned down from the outer margin. In double hare-lip the upper wire suture should pass through the lateral portions and the base of the central V-shaped portion, if that be of sufficient size, the second through the apex of the V, while the third unites the lateral portions only. Where, however, the columella is short the upper suture passes through the apex of the V. Dressing.—The parts are carefully cleansed of blood, and in many cases a dressing is not necessary. The wound can, however, be pro- tected and steadied by applying a dressing of sterile gauze cut in the shape of a dumb-bell. One of the ends is fixed by means of flexile collodion : when it is dry the cheeks are pushed forwards, the narrow portion carried across tlie wound, and tlie other end fixed to the cheek by collodion. The cheeks are held forward until the collodion is dry. No collodion is applied to the wound. After the stitches have been removed, plaster cut in a similar manner is used for three or four weeks in order to prevent the cicatrix stretching. Aftbr-Treatmbnt.—Where the gap has been wide and the nostrils much flattened, the child has to be carefully watched for at least twenty- four hours after the operation, lest it suffocate. A small piece of tubing may be passed into the nostrils, and the nurse should be instructed to see that the lower lip does not act as a valve, and to draw it down with the finger from time to time. Care should also be taken to prevent the child pulling at the sutures. The patient should be carefully and regu- larly fed witli a spoon. No food should be allowed to touch the lip until the wound is healed. The stitches can, as a rule, all be removed by the end of a week. The wire sutui-es may be taken out, or one or more of them divided and left in position from the fourth day onwards. The horse-hair sutures are the last to be removed. Complications.—If primary union completely fail, and the child's health be satisfactory, the edges of the wound may be at once rawed and brought together ; if failure be partial, carefully drawing the edges together with plaster will usually bring about union by granulation. The cicatrix will, however, be more or less a broad one, and the lip will have to be supported for a considerable time in order to prevent stretching. Death sometimes occurs after the operation in feeble children, from lung or other com- plications. Faulty results may have to be remedied. A notch in the red margin may be treated by N^laton's or other methods. The flattened upper lip met with after the removal of the os incisivum can be improved by the adjuvant of a plate with artificial incisors. Pa,la,tine.—Belonging to the palate, e.g. the palatine arches, artery, foramen, fossa, nerves, etc. Pa,la,tinoidS.—A proprietary name for cachets of soluble jujube containing unpleasant or nauseous drugs, the taste of which is thus concealed. PcllatO-. — In compound words palato- (Lat. palattim, palate) means relating to the palate; e.g. palatognathous (affected with cleft palate), palatoplasty (reparative operations on the palate), palatopterygoid (relating to the palatine and pterygoid bones), palatorrhaphy (the closure of a cleft palate), etc. PaiatOgrlOSSUS. See Palate (^Anatomy). Palatopharyng^euS. See Palate {Anatomy). Palatoschisis. — The malformation known as cleft palate. See Palate {Cleft Palate). Palermo. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Italian, Sicily). Palfyn's Forceps. See Labour, Operations {Forceps, Invention). Paling'enesiS.—That form of develop- ment or ontogenesis in which ancestral char- acters are reproduced without modification {Haeckel); it is derived from Gr. iraXw, again, and yeVecrts, birth ; it is opposed to kenogenesis. Palladium.—A rare metal of the plati- num group, usually associated with platinum, and resembling silver; its symbol is Pd, and its atomic weight is 126; it has been used in the treatment of tuberculosis (3 per cent solution of chloride of palladium). Palliative Treatment.—That form of medical or (less often) surgical treatment which is not expected to cure the disease or prevent a fatal issue, but which, it is hoped, will relieve suffering and perhaps prolong life, e.g. in cases of cancer. Pallium.—The outer part of each cerebral hemisphere, characterised by the presence of fissures. Pallor. See Chlorosis {Symptoms); Nose,