OPIUM 176 ingredient of most cough mixtures, and no objection to its employment for this purpose can be raised when, as often happens, the cough- ing is excessive or, in other words, is greater than is necessary for tlie purpose of ridding the lungs of the sputum. In painful diseases of the larynx the insufflation of a powder containing acetate of morphia gives good results. In diar- rhoea and intestinal colic opium is indicated, care being observed, of course, that any irritant cause of such conditions has first of all been removed by means of a purge. Persistent and unnecessary vomiting, also, can often be checked by small doses of opium. In kidney disease, caution is to be observed in the use of opiates on account of the danger of diminution or arrest of the urinary secretion. Some would prohibit it entirely in Bright's disease ; but the dyspnoea, sleeplessness, and other symptoms of a ureemic nature complicating renal conditions are mark- edly influenced by small doses of morphia, and that as a rule without any noticeable bad effect. Opium takes an important place in the treat- ment of diabetes mellitus. Both the quantity of urine passed and the amount of sugar secreted are diminished, and the general condition of the patient is greatly improved. The dose must be rapidly increased as the maximum benefit is only obtained by ascending amounts, and dia- betic patients not only tolerate large quantities but seem to be relatively immune to the evil nervous effects of the drug. Various forms of opium administered in various ways have been advocated from time to time for this disease, but crude opium by the mouth would seem to give as good results as any. Hunger, thirst, nervous irritability, itching of the skin, and other symptoms are greatly ameliorated, and although a cvire of the disease is not to be ex- pected it is so modified that life is rendered bearable. The sudden withdrawal of opium may precipitate the onset of diabetic coma. An unreasonable dread of the employment of opium in cases of heart disease is entertained by many practitioners. Frequently cardiac dyspnoea and insomnia are greatly benefited by its use with practically no risk. Cyanosis is no absolute contraindication; but when advanced fatty degeneration, severe pulmonary complications, or serious renal diseases are present it is wiser to avoid it altogether. In all cases the initial dose must be small and its effect carefully watched, the object of the physician being to determine the mininuim quantity from which a beneficial and safe result can be obtained. In some cases it only increases the discomfort, and must be discontinued. In some forms of hfemor- rhage, especially hfemoptysis, the exhibition of morphine is most beneficial, allaying nervous excitement, quieting the heai-t's action, and ensuring local and general rest. The choice of any particular form or preparation of opium can only be decided by a careful consideration of the case under treatment, combined, of course, with a proper knowledge of the composition and pharmacological effects of the different varieties of the drug. Hard and fast rules in this con- nection are worse than useless, and in most cases little difficulty will be experienced in selecting the most suitable preparation, the decision having once been arrived at that the administration of an opiate is indicated. OpO-a—In compound words opo- (Gr. ottos, juice) as a prefix usually means relating to organic extracts; e.g. oj^o-cerebrin, opo-orchidin, opO'Ovariin, etc. OpOCepha,IUS.—A teratological type in which there is cyclopia, and fusion of the ex- ternal ears in front, with absence of the mouth and of the nasal proboscis (which is generally present in cyclopia); it is derived from the Greek wi/^, eye, and Ke<l>a\rj, head. Opodeldoc.—Linimentum saponis. The name is believed to have been invented by Paracelsus, and perhaps is associated with the Greek otrds, juice. At first the name was given to various plasters, but it is now restricted to the linimentum saponis, which is a slight modi- fication of the unguentum opodeldoch of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia of 1722. OpOpa,na.X.—A gum-resin obtained from the root of an umbelliferous plant {opopanax chironium), formerly regarded as possessing medicinal value in the form of opopanax wine, etc. OpOthera.py.—The treatment of disease by the use of animal substances (organs or extracts of organs), such as the thyroid gland, suprarenal capsule, brain substance, bone me- dulla, testicular substance, mammary gland, splenic substance, thymus gland, pituitary body, and placental extract; organotherapy. Oppenheim's Gait.—An oscillating mode of progression, somewhat resembling the spastic gait (sclerosis). Oppolzer'S Sigrn.—A sign met with in sero-fibrinous pericarditis, consisting in a change in the position of the cardiac apex beat with changes in the posture of the patient. OpponenS.—Literally, the term opponens means opposing, e.g. the opponens muscle of the thumb {opponens pollicis) which brings it into apposition to one of the fingers. Opsigfamy.—Delayed marriage (Gr. oi/^e, late, ya/Aos, marriage), i.e. marriage late in life. Opsomania. — A morbid longing for certain kinds of food (Gr. oi/'ov, rich fare, and ix.avia, madness), the eating of which is termed opsophagy.