NOMA 67 Noma.. — Cancrum oris or gangrenous ulceration of the cheek. See Gangrene {Cancrum oris); Stomatitis {Gangrenous); Measles {Complications, Ulcerative Stomatitis). Non Compos Mentis.—Literally, of unsound mind, applied to idiocy, to temporary weakness of intellect, etc. The pleural is non compotes. Noriipa,rSi.—A woman in labour with her ninth child; a nonigravida is a woman pregnant for the ninth time. Non-Union. See Fractures {Sequelce, Non-Union). Non-Via.ble.—The term applied to an infant born prematurely before it is capable of independent life apart from the mother. See Viability. NodlOg'ia.. — The doctrine of mind or science of the understanding (Gr. vdos, mind, Ao'yo?, discourse). Noorden's Treatnnent.— Von Noorden's dietetic method of treating obesity. See Obesity {Treatment, Dietetic). NoOSteresIS. — Loss of intellect, or dementia (Gr. voos, mind, o-Tepryo-is, privation or loss). Nordauism.—Degeneracy; in reference to Dr. Max Simon Nordau, the author of works on Degeneration and the Malady of the Century, and a disciple of Lombroso. Nordtmeyer-Berkefeid Filter. —A variety of house filter for purifying water ; it contains prepared infusorial earth, and is fitted to the water-tap. Norm.—A standard or type. Norma. — An aspect or view, e.g. the norma occipitalis is the view of the skull look- ing towards the back. Normoblast.—A normoblast is a nu- cleated red corpuscle resembling in size and shape the normal red blood corpuscle, but differing, of course, in the possession of a nucleus. Norris' Corpuscle. — A colourless corpuscle of the same size and shape as the normal red blood corpuscle, which is practically invisible in the serum. North Berwick. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotland). Norton's Operation.—A method of operating upon webbed fingers, or syndactylism. See Deformities {Hand and Fingers). Norton's Wells.—Tube wells consisting of iron pipes driven down into the soil one after another and fixed one to another ; they are of special value in obtaining a water supply in places where the soil is gravelly. Norway. See Balneology {Norway, Sweden, and Iceland). Norwegian itch. See Nails, Affec- tions of {Parasitic Diseases, Animal). Nose.—The diseases of the nose are con- sidered in the following sections :— 1. Nose, Examination of the . . 67 2. „ Anaesthesia of ... 74 3. Nasal Orifices and Septum . . 75 4. Acute Inflammations ... 80 5. Chronic Inflammations ... 83 6. Chronic Infective Conditions . . 88 7. Postnasal Adenoid Growths . . 91 8. Neuroses 97 9. Accessory Cavities . .100 10. Various Conditions : Foreign Bodies, etc 123 See also Anesthesia, Ether {In Postnasal Adenoids); Asthma {Morbid Anatomy, Mucous Membrane of Nose); Bone, Diseases of {Syphil- itic Disease of Nasal Boiies); Cough {Nervous, Nasal Polypi); Diphtheria {Clinical History, Nasal Diphtheria); Ear, Acute Inflammation OF Middle {Causes); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non- suppurative Disease {Hypertrophic Catarrh, Causes); Epistaxis ; Galvanic Cautery {Indica- tions, Disease of Nose); Glanders {Pathology); Hay Fever {Symptoms); Headache {Migraine, Effects); Invalid-Feeding {Nasal Feeding); Lac- rimal Apparatus, Diseases of {Nasal Duct); Leprosy {Lepra Tubercles in Nasal Mucosa) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Nose); Malingering {Nasal Simulations); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Introduction, Route of Infection); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious Menstruation, Nasal); Myiasis {Myiasis Na- rium); Palate {Hare - Lip, Complications); Physiognomy and Expression {Nose); Physi- ology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Special Senses, Smell); Retina and Optic Nerve {Atrophy of Optic Nerve in Nasal Disease); Stammering {Etiology); Spine, Surgical Af- fections OF {Scoliosis, Secondary to Nasal Ob- struction) ; Syphilis {Secondary in Nasal JIucous Alembrane, Tertiary in Nose); Syphilis {In Children, Snuffles); Teeth {Alveolar Abscess, Nasal Septum); Trades, Dangerous {Chemical Workers, Bichromate Poisoning, Erosion of Sep- tum Nasi); Vertigo (Varieties, Nasal) ; Voice (Nasal). 1. Examination of the Nose 1. General Examination in Regard to— (a) Exterior of the Nose and Aspect of the Face .... 68 {b) Character of the Voice . . 68