PARALYSIS 294 other forms of paralysis in members of the same family at or about the same time. A very interesting series of cases of this nature was recorded by Dr. Pasteur, in which two members of the family had definite anterior poliomyelitis, a third had an attack of hemiplegia, two others had febrile attacks without any paralysis, and two more had certain nervous manifestations, which rapidly passed oif in a few days; all these children were taken ill within a few days of one another. Thei'e is in nearly every case some infection, but the nature of that infection is not always the same; just as thrombosis is liable to occur after many different forms of infection, so infantile paralysis may follow in- fective processes of entirely different natures. This point will, however, be dealt with more detail in the discussion of the pathology of the disease. Symptoms: Acute Stage.—The onset of the disease is sudden. Sometimes the child goes to bed well and wakes at night screaming with pain, and if the little patient is old enough it may be able to indicate that the pain is in one or other limb, or in the back. The child resents all movements of the limb. The tem- perature is raised, vomiting may occur, there is general malaise, and the onset may even be accompanied by convulsions. Possibly the more common history is that the child is taken ill with slight febrile symptoms, there is headache, vomiting, possibly some diarrhoea, and pain in the back; the child is kept in bed for a day or so, and then it is noticed that one or more limbs are paralysed. Another form of onset is described by some authors in which, without any disturbance of health, there is sudden and complete loss of power in one or more limbs, the temperature is not raised, and there appears to be no pain. Siich an onset would seem to us to be of greater rarity than has been stated by some, viz., 25 per cent. In some cases there is a sudden onset of para- lysis which may persist for a few days, and which then rather rapidly clears up so as to leave no trace of weakness. In other cases the onset has been more gradual, so that the height of the paralysis is not reached for two to three weeks, while in others again there is the sudden onset followed by some improvement, and then after some days an extension of the paralysis. These last two forms are more frequently seen in the adult than in the child. Temperature. — The temperature generally rises rapidly to between 102° and 103° ; it remains high for a day or two, and then falls in about a week to the normal. This is by no means always the case, for sometimes the temperature will remain elevated for three to four weeks, especially if the limb continues to be painful on movement. Pain is commonly present during the onset of the disease; it is as a rule referred to the limb affected, and rapidly passes off, so that in a few days' time the leg can be passively moved in all directions without pain. Sometimes the pain is referred to the neck, and may occasion some rigidity of the muscles in this region. In other cases pain on move- ment persists for a considerable time, often for some three to four weeks. Sensation.—Although pain may be referred to the limb, yet on examination no alteration in tactile or painful impressions can be made out. Cases have been recorded in which such alterations have been present, but they are uncommon, and there is no doubt that in the majority of cases no such alteration exists even during the acute stage. Loss of Power.—The extent of the paralysis usually reaches its maximum in twenty-four to forty-eight hours from the onset of the illness, in some cases within a few hours. At such a period the child may be paralysed in all four extremities, and also in the thoracic and ab- dominal muscles, respiration being carried on by the diaphragm alone ; on the other hand, it may be limited to one limb. The amount of the paralysis during the acute stage is always in excess of that at a later stage, so that a child who is paralysed in all four extremities during the acute stage may possibly at a later stage be only completely paralysed in one leg, with some weakness of the opposite limb, the arms having completely recovered—in fact they are often extremely well developed owing to their use for progression. The paralysis rarely extends to the cranial nuclei, but affection of the muscles of the face does sometimes occur. The sphincters also are rarely affected, but when the lesion is extensive and involves the lower sacral region both the sphincters may be affected. The character of the paralysis is always flaccid, and there is a complete absence of tonus in the muscles affected; it may be noted, how- ever, that there is sometimes a certain amount of rigidity in groups of muscles represented in segments adjacent to those actually involved. Reflexes.—During this acute stage all the reflexes, both superficial and deep, are abolished in those parts of the body that are affected. The second stage of the disease is reached when the acute febrile state has passed and the transient paralysis, which may have affected all four extremities, has cleared up, leaving certain muscles of one or more limbs paralysed. Wasting of the muscles now genei-ally becomes manifest, but it should be remembered that the atrophy which they undergo is not always obvioTis, and that in infants who are fat very little difference in measurement can be detected between the two limbs, although the one is flaccid and the other is firm and is moved