328 PARALYSIS touch least, but the antesthesia may be complete to all forms. The muscular sense is sometimes absent, sometimes preserved. The antesthesia is distributed, as a rule, in " stocking or glove fashion"; frequently it is limited above by Poupart's ligaments and the iliac crests, and the perineum is almost always exempt, even when the antesthesia extends on to the trunk. Hemi- anaesthesia may be present in addition to par- ansesthesia. Slight trophic changes in the skin of the periphery, rest adhesions in the joints, and slight vaso-motor palsy may be present. Functional Monoplegia.—The general descrip- tion above given for hemiplegia and paraplegia applies to functional paralysis when one limb only is affected. Special importance must be attached to the fact that the ansesthesia is apt to be much more extensive than is the paralysis. Thus in a case of functional paralysis, limited to the forearm and hand, complete analgesia involves the whole upper limb. Functional Ptosis.—This condition is usually bilateral, and differs from true ptosis in that the eyes are completely closed, and that an attempt to raise the lid with the finger is re- sisted by contraction of the orbicularis. There is no paralysis of the eye muscles, and the reflex action of the pupil is normal. There may be occasionally dissociated movements of the eyes. Functional Spasm of the Palate. — This is usually an intermittent spasm, always involving the side of the pharynx, and sometimes also the vocal cord. Its occurrence is rare. Functional aphonia, is one of the commonest forms of functional paralysis. Laryngoscopic examination reveals complete or partial adductor paralysis. Abductor paralysis never occurs as a functional condition. Occasionally all the movements of articulation and phonation are weakly performed. Hysterical Alutism. See "Aphasia." Phantom tumour, which may occur in con- nection with functional paralysis, is apparently due to contracture of the lateral muscles of the abdominal wall with paresis and relaxation of part of the rectus abdominis muscle. Astasia Abasia.—This term denotes a symp- tom and not a disease. The phenomenon is met with in hysteria, and less frequently in other nervous affections, and is most often evoked by emotional disturbance or treatment, though it has also followed infectious diseases. The patient while able to perform all move- ments of the legs fi'eely and with good power while lying in bed, becomes helpless, and collapses on trying to stand or walk, or experiences great difficulty in walking. See also "Hysteria" and "Neurasthenia." Course and Prognosis.—The course of the disease is very varied, and is often niarked by partial recovery, followed by relapses. The paralysis may disappear suddenly, sometimes as the result of some impressive therapeutic measure, sometimes without any definite cause. This result is more common in cases where the duration of the paralysis has been short. Much more often gradual improvement takes place, and the paralysis takes weeks or even months to disappear. The prognosis is \^ orse, as regards ultimate recovery and the occurrence of relapses, when the general signs of hysteria are well marked. It is also worse the longer the duration of the disease, for the long-continued functional derangement must cause molecular alteration of the nervous elements. Complete and lasting recovery, however, has occurred after almost complete paraplegia has been present for seventeen years. Most of the cases ultimately recover so far as the paralysis is concerned. Some few end in organic disease of the nervous system, and death has occurred in rare instances from the anorexia and vomit- ing. The prognosis is favourable in proportion as definite causes can be traced and removed, especially deterioration of health of remediable character. Treatment. — The treatment of functional paralysis is that of hysteria in general (q.v.), the Weir Mitchell treatment being especially valuable. As regards the special treatment of functional paralysis, it is important that the patient should expect gain in power to follow any treatment adopted. Faradism to the affected limbs, passive movements, and massage are the necessary remedies. Elec- tricity, which these patients as a rule find very disagreeable, should be applied by the medical attendant or by a skilled nurse, as the more profound is the patient's respect for the treat- ment the better is the result. In severe cases, when movement is returning, the calls to increased effort must be very gradual and systematic, care being taken that no attempt is allowed to fail entirely or to produce fatigue. A patient who has been long bedridden should be encouraged to crawl about at first. When walking is first attempted it should be with the aid of a person on either side; subsequently a steady frame on wheels, which the patient pushes along and uses as a support, should be used. Any measure producing severe pain is harmful. Static electricity and circular blisters round the limb are useful. Sometimes brief ether ansesthesia has removed contracture. In long-standing cases, where contracture has led to permanent shortening of the muscles, tenotomy is sometimes advisable, but only after the disappearance of the paralysis. Diagnosis.—In the differentiation of functional paralysis from that of organic origin, it must be borne in mind that organic disease simulates functional disease more often and more closely than does functional disease organic disease. A case in which, after careful consideration, much doubt arises, is probably organic. Always to be kept in view is the possibility of the