NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE 70 bull's eye answers well. Limelight, though giving splendid illumination, is too complicated to be generally employed. When sunlight is used the reflector should be plane; when artificial light is employed a concave reflector, having a focus of about ten inches, is required. The reflector may be fixed either to a spectacle- frame or to a band passing round the forehead. The light is best placed on the right side of the patient, rather behind and above his head. In this way the right hand, when used for introducing a probe or other instrument, does not intercept the light. Direct illumination is unsuitable for anterior rhinoscopy. Method of Performance.—The patient being seated opposite the surgeon on the same level, the light is thrown with the reflector on to the nostril, and before the speculum is introduced the tip of the nose should be raised with the thumb and the columella, and both vestibules examined to see if there is any irregularity of the cartilaginous septum. The speculum being inserted into the vestibule with the left hand, and the blades gently separated as far as possible without hurting the patient, the beam of light is directed into it. Three positions are usually necessary for a full examination, the patient's head being guided into them by the right hand placed either on the vertex or on the patient's occiput, in the latter case the thumb being on the patient's left cheek. It is best to commence with the patient's head slightly thrown back; in this position the lower part of the middle and the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body are seen. By tilting the head farther back the neck of the middle turbinated body and the roof of the nasal fossa come into view, and by bending the patient's head sharply forwai'ds the inferior meatus, the palatal muscles, and the floor of the nose become visible. By re- peating these positions with the patient's head slightly turned to the opposite side, the corre- sponding portions of the septum can be inspected. Anterior Rhinoscopic View. — The view ob- tained by anterior rhinoscopy depends largely on the amount of erection of the inferior tur- binated body; if that body is much erected, no view of the deeper parts of the nasal cavity can be obtained. The inferior turbinated body itself appears as a round, shining eminence with a smooth surface, which is either in contact with, or in close proximity to, the septum. Above, it is prolonged into a broad neck, which, if the erection be extreme, completely conceals the middle turbinated body. The sensation produced by touching the inferior turbinated body with a probe is that of a soft cushion which can be deeply indented by pressui'e, but rapidly regains its original shape. To make an examination under these circumstances it is necessary to contract the erectile body by applying eucaine to the mucous membrane. This can be done either by spraying a 5 per cent solution of the hydrochlorate with a small hand spray through the anterior naris, or by inserting a small pellet of absorbent wool satu- rated with the same solution into the nasal cavity. The entrance of cocaine into the throat is more easily avoided by using the latter method. 1 After an interval of a quarter of an hour collapse of the erected turbinated body is at its height, and the parts appear as shown in Fig. 1.2 Inferior Turbinated Body.—The an- j Fig. 1.—Left anterior rliinoscopic view in a woman, aged 26. a, Anterior extremity (collapsed) of interior turbinated Ijody ; b, inner surface of same, seen in perspective, showing a rounded swelling; c, anterior border of middle turbinated body, ending below in the angle, which in this case presents a puffy swelling; above, the anterior border terminates in the neck of the body (e); d, tubercle of the septum ; /, lower border of middle turbinated body ; git, depressions on either side of the necli ; 3, forming part of the olfactory slit, and k, a portion of the middle meatus ; h, a moderately deep-seated swellinK on the septum ; i, ditto, much farther inwards; j, inferior meatus, through which the movements of the palatal muscles can be seen; I, "neck" of the inferior turbinated body. terior extremity, or the presenting part, forms a somewhat irregular undulating surface, ter- minating below in a more or less sharp margin which overhangs the inferior meatus. Above, it tapers gradually into the outer wall of the nasal cavity, forming, as viewed from the front, a kind of "neck" (Fig. 1, I); the inner surface of the body {i.e. the septal surface) can be traced far back, often to its posterior extremity. The greatly foreshortened view of this surface may present the appearance of a shallow concavity or of a slightly roimded eminence. It is best seen by turning the patient's face towards the side under examination. On account of the comparatively small size of the bone itself this position is sometimes necessary, even to see the inferior turbinated body. Middle Turbinated Body.—Above, and at a considerably greater distance from the orifice, is seen the middle 1 Cocaine has not only an ischsemic, but also an anfes- thetic etfect on the nasal mucous membrane : it cannot, therefore, be employed when it is desired to test reHex nasal irritability with a probe. Eucaine, which also acts as a local anaesthetic, has very slight ischaemic prop- erties. When ischaemia is desired, it may be combined with extract of suprarenal capsule ; but for examining the nose, eucaine, unless specially contraindicated, stands first. - A Oxdde to the Examination of the Nose. By E. Cresswell Baber, London, 1886.