106 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES recognised clinically; several cases, however, have been described by Schiiffer. The symptoms resembled those of an aggravated nasal and naso-pharyngeal catarrh, the patient complain- ing of intense headache in the occipital region and on the vertex of the skull. Accompanying this there were symptoms of sleeplessness and general malaise, and the temperature rose above that usually met with in an ordinary cold. In some cases giddiness was a prominent symptom. If an objective examination should be made in the acute stage, the mucous membrane in the posterior part of the nose will be found red and turgescent, the olfactory slit between the middle turbinated, and the septum being narrowed by the swollen condition of the mucosa. Muco-purulent and purulent secretion may be also visible both by anterior and posterior rhinoscopy, but there are no crusts such as occur in the chronic form of the affection. (e) Treatment op the Acute Affections.—■ Acute suppuration in the accessory sinuses may heal spontaneously, or may pass into a chronic condition. Some cases require early surgical interference owing to the acute and threaten- ing character of the symptoms. The duration of this stage varies considerably, and is de- pendent not only upon the severity of the infection, but on certain anatomical conditions which favour imperfect drainage. Amongst these may be enumerated the position of the ostium, as in the antrum, the small size of the openings, and incomplete subdivisions of the cavity due to partitions. I have seen acute suppuration of the frontal sinus heal without any surgical operation after the discharge had persisted for seven weeks, while an acute antral suppuration seen a week after its onset and treated by palliative measures lapsed into a chronic condition. In the treatment of the acute stage various simple remedies are em- ployed, mainly with the object of reducing the nasal turgescence and thus favouring freer drainage. The patient should be confined to bed, and, in the case of the maxillary and frontal sinuses, hot compresses or ice applied to the cheek and forehead often relieve the pain to some extent. Frequent inhalations of menthol vapour, prepared by adding menthol crystals to hot water or administered in a 10 per cent alcoholic solution from an inhaler, greatly relieve the symptoms. A weak cocaine spray 2 to 3 per cent effects a similar purpose. The internal administration of salol is also by some strongly recommended. The severer cases, however, require careful watching, and if the symptoms are very acute it may be necessary to open the sinus or enter it through the natural orifice and wash out the contents. Complete and permanent relief has resulted from a single irrigation in such cases. If the pain continues severe or head symptoms supervene, operation should not be delayed. The formation of an orbital abscess must be at once dealt with. Opinions differ as regards the time of opening the sinus in the less severe cases where, after the dis- appearance of all subjective symptoms, the purulent discharge continues. Avellis is in favour of operating after three weeks, while others recommend delay for six weeks. In the frontal sinus case referred to above the discharge ceased spontaneously after seven weeks. In all cases the surgeon must be guided both by the amount and the character of the pus. If it recurs in gradually diminishing quantities and becomes less purulent, even though it continues over a period of several weeks, operation may still be safely delayed. The methods of operating upon the different sinuses are described under the treatment of chronic suppuration. In acute cases, however, curetting of the interior of the cavity is not necessary, and the condition tends to heal without prolonged after-treatment. 6. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in the Accessory Sinuses, or so-called " Latent Empyema" i. General Symptomatology. — A brief re- sume of certain symptoms and signs which should suggest the possible existence of chronic suppuration in one or more of these cavities must, in the first place, be considered. It is of primary importance, however, to bear in mind the fact that pus may be secreted for months and even years in one of the accessory sinuses, with almost entire absence of pain or swelling to suggest the existence of such an inflammatory condition. The term "latent empyema" has in consequence been applied to this affection. On the other hand, a more general recognition of the fact that a purulent nasal discharge with or without some degree of nasal obstruction— especially if the discharge is unilateral—may be due to sinus mischief, has led to a more systematic and successful examination of these air spaces. In complicated cases in which more than one sinus is affected, a correct and com- plete diagnosis is by no means easy, and careful and repeated observation becomes necessary before a knowledge of the exact condition is ascertained. Even when only one sinus is dis- eased diagnosis is sometimes difficult. (a) Nasal Discharge.—This may be the chief or perhaps the only symptom complained of. It is often difficult to ascertain the date or manner of its origin. The patient may com- plain that he has a " chronic cold " which has lasted for many months or even years. The discharge varies in character. In some cases it is mainly purulent, being of a thick creamy consistence and yellow in colour. In others, again, it is thinner and more stringy owing to a considerable admixture of mucus, and some- times the mucus predominates, rendering the