NEW-BORN INFANT 62 (lagophthalmia). The paralysis is usually re- covered from, although several weeks may elapse; but there is a central form of the affection, when the eye can usually be closed, in which the prognosis is not so good. Massage and electricity may be used. Hoeniatorna of the sterno-mastoid muscle is a swelling in the muscle caused by an efifusion of blood into its substance followed by myo- sitis, and possibly accompanied by infection (Kader). The condition is often discovered quite accidentally, and is usually unilateral; but it has an importance, for it may be the origin of one of the forms of congenital torticollis. Massage and inunctions of unguentum potassii iodidi may be employed to aid absorption. Mastitis neonatorum is an inflammatory swell- ing of the mammary gland in the new-born, due to injudicious handling by the mother or nurse, associated with microbic infection of the gland tissue. It will cease to occur when it is generally recognised that there is no need to squeeze out from the breasts the milky fluid which is found in them in the neonatal period of life. The mastitis may be checked at the beginning by firm bandaging of the breast; when, however, pus has formed, it must of course be evacuated as soon as possible. The new- born infant may be born with other forms of injury than those mentioned above; it may show contusions and wounds due to instrumental interference, and it may be the subject of various fractures and dislocations produced during version, etc. Most of these are quickly recovered from if they are recognised at once and appropriately treated. Spoon-shaped de- pressions of the cranial bones may require to be elevated by pneumatic suction or the trephine, or simply by antero-posterior compression of the head. Newquay. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Newton's Ring^S. — The concentric rings of colour produced when a cover-glass comes in contact with the underlying slide; they are due to chromatic aberration, and indicate true contact between the apposed surfaces. If they are not seen, the slide should be rejected for purposes of blood counts. New York State. See Balneology {America, Sulphuretted Waters). New Zealand. See Balneology (Meiv Zealand); Therapeutics, Health Resorts (^Australia and New Zealand). Nexus. — A link or interlacement, such as the nexus nervorum opticorum (the optic chiasma). Nice. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Nickar Nuts.—Bonduc seeds {JBondu- cellce Senmm), obtained from a tropical plant {CcBsalpina bonducella) and used as a bitter tonic and in malaria; they contain a bitter principle, bonducin Nickel Salts.—Some of the salts of the metallic element nickel (Ni; atomic weight, 58'3) have been used in medicine: the sulphate (NiSO^) and the chloride (NiClj) as tonics, and the bromide (NiBr,) in epilepsy. The salicylate and the phosphate have also been employed. Nickle'S Test.—A means of distinguish- ing cane-sugar from glucose, depending upon the fact that the former when heated with the tetrachloride of carbon to a temperature of 100° C. turns black, while the latter is not so affected. NiCOl'S Prism.—The prism of Iceland- spar invented by William Nicol of Edinburgh (1768-1851) for polarising light; it is made by taking a crystal of the spar and cutting it obliquely into two wedges, and then cementing them together with Canada balsam. Nicotian in. See Tabaci Folia. Nicotine. AS'ee Tabaci Folia ; Alkaloids (Nicotina); Toxicology [Tobacco). Nicotinism.—The morbid results of the prolonged use of tobacco; chronic tobacco poisoning. See Tabaci Folia; Toxicology [Tobacco). Nictitating: Membrane. —The third or inner eyelid present in some animals for the purpose of protecting the eyeball from dust (Lat. nictare, to wink), and sometimes present as a rudiment in the human subject (plica semilunaris conjunctivae). Nictitating: Spasm.—Clonic spasm of the eyelids. Nictitation. — The action of winking (Lat. nictare, to wink). See Nictitating Spasm. Nidus.—Literally, a "nest"; hence a place of origin or development or a source. Niemeyer's Pill. —A pill containing quinine (1 grain), digitalis (^ grain), and opiiun {\ grain); it is used to check the cough and night-sweats in pulmonary phthisis. Nig^htblain. — A chilblain. See Ery- thema {Erythema Pernio). Nig^ht-Blindness. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Night-Blindness); Conjunc- tiva, Diseases of {Xerosis Conjunctivoe); Re- tina AND Optic Nerve {Retinitis Pigmentosa). Nig^htmare.—A dream in which there is a sense of impending disaster accompanied by