PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 555 the most vahiable advance has been made by the study of the results of lesions of the cord in the light of the observations of Head and his co-workers on the course of these fibres in the jDeripheral nerves {see p. 531). While section of a cutaneous nerve destroys epicritic and protopathic sensibility, and leaves deep sensibility intact, lesions of the spinal cord are apt to interrupt the passage of the impulses concerned with different kinds of sensation. Thus, section of a cutaneous nerve abolishes any sensation of pain from the surface of the skin, but leaves the possibility of the sensation of pain being produced by severe pressure on deep structures, while a lesion of the cord is apt to interrupt the passage of all stimuli producing pain, whether coming by epicritic, protopathic, or deep fibres. A redis- tribution has taken place—all the various fibres carrying the impulses derived from nocuous stimulation have got shunted into one tract carrying them up to the brain. Similarly, the impulses connected with thermal sen- sation coming by epicritic and by pro- topathic fibres, and those connected with the sense of touch and pressure, each get shunted into specific tracts (Figs. 90 and 91). This must mean that these im- pulses get sorted out by passing through synapses in the cord, and the position of these synapses and the course of the axons running from them to the brain have been deduced partly from histological investigation of the fibres of the posterior roots, partly by careful study of the symp- toms and of the degenerations which follow definite lesions of the cord. By the developmental method, by the different characters of the fibres, and by the degenerative changes, a posterior root has been divided into four main bundles : — 1. A set of large fibres passing for- ward to form synapses with Fia. 90.- the cells of the anterior horn at the same and other levels of the cord. 2. A second passing up the posterior columns of the same side, some running right on to the top of the cord, but many entering the grey matter as they course upwards. 3. A thii-d set forming synapses with the cells of Lockhart Clarke's column. 4. A fourth ending at once in synapses with the cells of the posterior horn, or run- ning for a short distance up the pos- terior column before forming synapses. 1. The first set of fibres are those concerned in ordinary simple reflex action (Fig. 91, 4). 2. The second set make up the posterior columns. When interrupted, the result is a loss of the kinsesthetic sense and a loss of the tactile sense for a short distance below the lesion, but not of the rest of the tactile sense or of the thermal sense or of pain. They form synapses in the nuclei of the posterior columns in the medulla in which they terminate, and, from these synapses, fibres cross the middle line to run upwards to the brain in the fillet (see p. 557) (Fig. 91, 1 and A). 3. From the cells of Lockhart Clarke, with which the third set of fibres forms synapses—(1) H/NA£STHBTtC TACTIU. THERMAL. MED J PAIN- SPINAL NERVE- Of EPICRITIC PR070PATHIC AND' /AI60ING mSUE fIBRES SPINAL CORD To show redistribution of impulses in the cord and the genera course of impulses of different kinds. axons sweep outwards to take up a position on the postero-lateral margin of the cord and to constitute the direct cerebellar tract which runs up to the cerebellum (Fig. 91, 2 and B) ; (2) other axons cross the anterior white commissure to the opposite side of the cord and come to lie on the lateral margin just in front of the direct cerebellar tract. They may be termed the ventro-spinal cerebellar tract, and they too pass to the cerebellum, but by a different route from those of the direct tract {see p. 558) (Fig. 91, 3 and C). 4. The fourth set of fibres forms synapses with the cells in the posterior horn. From these,