457 PHARMACOLOGY peutic properties of the unaltered drug. Eme- tine is a local irritant; there is, however, con- siderable personal idiosyncrasy as regards its action, the coryzal and catarrhal symptoms which it produces being especially seen in cer- tain susceptible persons. It causes diaphoresis, salivation, nausea, and vomiting even when injected beneath the skin, and this action is attended by some depression or even cai-diac failure. Large doses may produce gastro- enteritis. Probably all the actions of emetine, even when injected subcutaneously, are due to the local irritation which it causes, and not to any effect on the central nervous system. (20) Colchicine.—The Colchicum autwmnale owes its inclusion in the Pharmacopoeia to its remedial virtue in gout, which has been learned empirically, and of which the pharmacology of colchicine affords no explanation. In ordinary doses the alkaloid has no apparent effect; in poisonous quantities the local irritation of the gastro-intestinal tract which is produced shows itself by nausea, vomiting, and dysenteric diar- rhoea, while the circulation is affected by the collapse which ensues. The irritation extends to the kidneys, causing diuresis, hsematuria, or anuria. Death occurs from failure of the respiration. Colchicine, in fact, acts like an irritant poison. It has the further peculiarity that after a latent period of some hours (no matter how administered, or in what doses) it paralyses the nervous system. It also pro- duces first a fall, then a marked rise, in the leucocytes. (21) Saponin and Sapotoxin.—In a number of drugs, mostly employed as expectorants, toxic giucosides having the property of forming- frothy soap-like solutions, and hence called saponins and sapotoxins, are present. The chief members of the group are Polygala senega, Qwillaia saponaria, and various species of Smilax (sarsaparilla). Solani^ie, found in the deadly nightshade {Solanum nigrum), and also in small quantities in the potato {S. tuberosum), has properties like those of saponin. Its chief interest lies in the fact that the amount in the potato may increase to a dangerous extent and give rise to symptoms of poisoning, when the tubers begin to sprout in damp cellars, and when green unripe potatoes are used. Nearly half the solanine is removed with the skin of the potato, and much of what remains is ex- tracted by boiling. The saponins and their allies are local irri- tants and general protoplasmic poisons when they come in contact with the cells in sufficient concentration. They therefore cause gastro- intestinal symptoms, and when absorbed act as blood poisons, causing ecchymoses, hsematuria, and hsemoglobinuria. Respiration is paralysed, and convulsions may occur from action on the central nervous system. They weaken the heart, probably by direct action. (22) Quinine.—Quinine, obtained from several species of cinchona, is one of the most im- portant alkaloids we possess. Its special char- acteristic is an action on all forms of proto plasm, not, as in the case of most of the alka- loids, on a special group of cells. Its general effect may be summed up as one of stimida tion followed by depression; it is therefore a general protoplasmic poison. Its action on low forms of life has especially been studied by Binz, who found that while weak solutions stimulated the movements of amoebse, stronger ones paralysed and then killed the organism. Ordinary bacteria are more resistant than pro- tozoa, and moulds grow freely in solutions of quinine. The reproductive cells of animals have their vitality impaired by quinine, and the conjugation of ovum aud spermatozoon, with its after results, are rendered abnormal in con- sequence. Leucocytes are affected similarly to amoebae, becoming granular and losing their power of movement. Various unorganised ferments—e.g. the gastric and pancreatic—are also inhibited by the drug. Tiirning to the effect of quinine on the general economy, its most important action is that of an antipyretic. As this occurs after division of the spinal cord, it cannot be due to any action on the heat- regulating centres in the brain, but must arise from a direct effect on the tissues—decreased production and increased loss—probably con- nected with the alterations in metabolism which the drug brings about. The normal tempera- ture is not lowered by quinine ; a fall takes place only when fever is present. The exact means by which quinine lowers the febrile temperature, however, is still an unsolved problem. Action on Jletabolisfn.—Oxidation, as measured by the respiratory interchange, is not affected; but the breaking down of nitrogenous bodies is retarded, and the urinary output of nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus is diminished. In small doses quinine acts like a simple bitter; in larger quantities it causes gastric derangement. Affections of hearing— a ringing sound in the ears and slight deafness —commonly follow ordinary doses ; contraction of the visual fields, loss of colour vision, and even temporary blindness may result from larger amounts. In toxic doses the pulse is slowed, and there is confusion and unsteady gait; in fatal poisoning collapse, loss of sight and hearing, and failure of respiration have been noted. Quinine is commonly believed to be an exciter of uterine contraction; whether rightly or no is doubtful. Idiosyncrasy to the action of quinine is frequently met with: in such cases the ear symptoms occur after small doses; exanthematous skin eruptions may ap- pear ; albuminuria and htematuria have been noticed. Quinine is excreted rapidly, and can easily be detected in the urine. (23) Digitalis and Allied Drugs.—The charac-