PARALYSIS 268 Table of the Spinal Segments—continued Spinal Segment, Cone- sponding Spinous Process Muscles supplied. Reflex. Sensory Distribution. L 4 T, fi S 1 S 2 S 3 S 4 D 12 Extensor quadriceps cruris. Abductors of hip Flexors of knee Calf muscles Glutei, peronei, ant. tibial muscles, intrinsic muscles of foot Perineal muscles Foot clonus Plantar reflex Anal reflex L 4 T f; Li 0 S 1 S 2 Knee except behind. Inner aspect of leg to ankle Outer aspect of leg, dorsum of foot Dorsal aspect of toes, instep, sole of foot, heel and two strips enclosing S 2 on back of calf reaching almost to knee Strip along back of lower extremity from two inches above heel to above middle of buttock Perinaeum, genitals, adductor region of thigh S 5 Cocc. L 1 Sacral region I. Spastic Paralysis Spastic Paraplegia.—The essential character- istic of this symptom-group, which may be pro- duced by the most varied pathological processes having their site in inany different parts of the central nervous system, is bilatei-ally distributed paralysis associated with increased muscular tone (rigidity). Muscle Tomis.—Every healthy muscle in the living state exists normally in a state of slight contraction or tonus. In slight degree this tonus is an expression of the life of the muscle apart from other influences : in much greater degree it is dependent upon the nerve-cells directly governing the muscles (lower motor neurons). This factor in muscle tonus is pro- duced reflexly. If attention be called to any part of the body, sensations coming from that part will reach consciousness. Such luifelt sensory stimuli are constantly impinging upon the spinal segments, and find their expression upon the motor side in a continuous outflow of energy distributed to the muscles and pro- ducing a condition of continuous slight con- traction—the spinal element of muscle tonus. From this reflex origin it is obvious that a lesion of the sensory nerve at any part of its course from the periphery to the spinal segment, or a lesion of the spinal segment itself, or a lesion of the motor nerve at any part of its course, will abolish the muscle tonus. In other words, muscle tone is dependent upon the integrity of the reflex arc. Further, the spinal segments themselves are presided over by higher parts of the nervous system which regulate the activity of the response of the spinal segment to incitations coming from the periphery. This higher mechanism has, on the one hand, an inhibitory influence upon the spinal segment, and, on the other hand, an augmentor influence. The inhibitor influence is cerebral in origin, and is distributed to the spinal segments by the fibres of the pyramidal tract. If this influence be removed, as in a lesion of the pyramidal system, the spinal segment reacts to the constant afferent im- pressions unrestrainedly, and its physiological capacity for such action slowly increases. Consequently the expression of the constant activity of the spinal segment, the muscle tone, increases, and rigidity is produced. The augmentor influence arises in some part of the central nervous system, below the midbrain and above the medulla. Its path in the spinal cord is not definitely known, but this does not cross in the medulla or spinal cord. If in the cat the cerebral hemispheres be removed, there ensues at once intense extensor rigidity of all four limbs—decerebrate rigidity. Semisection of the spinal cord or medulla abolishes this rigidity on the side of semisection below the point of section. Decerebrate rigidity, there- fore, must be due to incitations having their seat in the ponto-cerebellar region. In lower animals (cat and dog) the spinal segments possess sufficient autonomy not only to maintain muscular tone, but to produce rigidity when severed from all connection with the higher parts of the nervous system. In the higher apes this autonomy is much feebler, and in man the spinal segment cannot per se produce any degree of muscular tone. From this the most important clinical fact arises, that a complete transverse lesion of the spinal cord produces completely flaccid paralysis with loss of deep reflexes, while an incomplete lesion produces spastic paralysis, for the augmentor influence still maintains a hold upon the spinal segments below the lesion. Clinically the terms " hypertonus " and " hypotonus " are used for in- crease or decrease respectively in the muscle tone.