PARASITES 354 leaving the scolex within the rectum. Cusso, kamala, pelletierin, turpentine or naphthalin, may be used instead of filix mas, but are not more efficacious. After the expulsion of a tapeworm, the possibility of there being more than one example of the parasite, and also of there being examples of different species simultaneously in the intestine, should not be overlooked ; and, lastly, as an important means of prophylaxis, the expelled worm should be destroyed by burning. Echinococcus disease—the condition resulting from the presence, in the tissues, of Echinococcus polymorj^hus, the larva of T. echinococcus, an intestinal cestode of the dog—has been already dealt with under the headings of " Hydatid Disease" and "Liver." Only two or three points in the recent literature will, therefore, be referred to. As to the nature of the bacteria which induce suppuration within the cyst little is yet known, but the causal bacteria are probably in many instances anaerobes. Halle and Bacaloglu (1900), for example, examining a foetid hepatic echinococcal cyst, found two anaerobes {Staphylococcus parvulus and Bacillus fragilis) both very abundantly, and two aerobes {Streptococcus pyogenes and Bacterium coli) both very scantily. Our knowledge of multilocular echinococci has been much advanced by the monograph of Melnikow-Raswedenkow, Stiidien u. d. Echinoc. alveolaris sive multilocularis (1901). The primary convoluted chitinous cyst, says this writer, has granular protoplasm both on its inner and outer surface, from both of which there arise three kinds of embryos —finely granular "young forms," encapsuled ovoid embryos, and scolices. He indicates the close analogy between the development, within the human tissues, of the alveolar (multilocular) echinococcus and that of certain trematodes; and, lastly, he refers in detail to the metastases in the lungs, brain, and elsewhere. Melnikow- Raswedenkow brings the number of recorded cases of multilocular echinococcus up to 235, but since then at least two new cases have been reported (G. Hauser; and R^non, 1901). In Hauser's case there was a primary multilocular echinococcus of the right lung and pleura, with multiple metastases more especially in the brain. The case is recorded in Festschr. d. Univ. Erlangenf. Prinzreg. Luitpold. (B) Nemathelminths (Gr. v^/xa, thread), the roimd worms. Of these there are two orders: Nematodes and Acanthocephali. The former have an alimentary canal, the latter have none. Nematodes The nematodes or round worms are cylindrical and elongated, and in general are filiform or fusiform in shape. Each has a well-developed alimentary tract, commencing in a mouth at the anterior extremity which is usually pointed, and terminating at the anus, which is usually situated some little distance from the posterior end of the worm. The sexes are almost in- variably separate. The males are smaller than the females, and the posterior extremity of the former is often ventrally curved. The chief anatomical features are the following : — The outer surface is formed by a cuticula which often shows fine transverse strite, and beneath this are from without inwards, an epithelial layer, the hypodermis, and the cutis. The cutis is markedly thickened on each lateral aspect to form the " lateral lines," the less prominent thickenhigs of the cutis anteriorly and posteriorly constituting the " median lines." Within the cutis is the muscular layer, the cells of which usually have the form of large vesicles. The oral aperture is often surrounded by lips or papillae, the mouth sometimes presents cuticular " teeth," and behind the mouth there are in succession oesophagus, stomach, middle intestine, and posterior in- testine, the last opening at the anus. The nematodes possess a well-developed nervous system, and there are numerous papillae at the posterior extremity of the males. Both sexes have a system of excretory vessels, of which the canals in the "lateral lines" are easily recognised. The male has a single straight or convoluted testicle; the genital aperture opens into the posterior intestine, which is therefore a cloaca, and there are two spicules—sometimes only one—capable of being protruded from the cloacal aperture. The vulva of the female is situated ventrally, usually in the anterior half of the body, and connected by a short vagina with two uteri. The ovaries are usually long and much convuhited. The ova are fertilised within the uterus, are enclosed by a more or less thick shell, outside which there is sometimes an albuminous sheath. In most species the females lay eggs, each containing a fully de- veloped or as yet imperfectly developed embryo; in a few species the embryo escapes from the egg before being discharged from the maternal body. The host is infected by an embryo, either in a free state or enclosed within its shell (direct infection); or the embryo first infects an intermediate host, and the definitive host is thus indirectly infected. The parasitic nematodes which have to be considered belong to one or other of the follow- ing families: Angiostomidaj, Filariidaj, Tricho- trachelidfe, Strongylidse, and Ascaridaj. Angiostomid^e. — Strongyloides intestinalis (Bavay, 1877); Syn.: Rhahdonema strongyloides (Leuckart, 1883); etc. — The worms of the parasitic generation, Anguilluloe intestinalis, are about 2-2 mm. long and 0-03 mm. broad. They live in the upper part of the small intestine. According to Askanazy (1900) they bore into the mucous membrane; there the females deposit their eggs, and the embryos, which are about half as large as the adults, escape and gain the