193 OSTEO-ARTHROPATHIES take place without the occurrence of any acute symptoms. The fluid tends to subside in a few days or many weeks, and, in disappearing, it leaves very various conditions behind it; in the more favourable cases the joint appears to have suffered but little, but in others the articular surfaces are partially or wholly destroyed. The liability of the different joints to be attacked varies considerably; Charcot placed their frequency in the order of knee, shoulder, elbow, hip, and wrist, but subsequent statistics show that the hip-joint must be given a con- siderably higher place in the list. The small joints of the hand are but seldom affected. Clinically, an atrophic and a hypertrophic form can be recognised. In the atrophic form atrophy of the bones is the predominating feature, while in the hypertrophic variety new deposits of bone take place round the joint as in rheumatoid arthritis. As was shown by Kredel, the atrophic form is more commonly found in the ball and socket joints (hip and shoulder), and the hypertrophic in the hinge joints (knee and elbow). Morbid Anatomy.—The fluid which distends the joint is usually clear; occasionally it may contain blood, especially if the arthropathy is complicated by an intracapsular fracture, which is not a very uncommon occurrence; suppura- tion never occurs unless, of course, the joint is in some way accidentally infected from without. In cases of any standing the articular surfaces are greatly modified. In the atrophic form the head of the bone often almost or entirely dis- appears, and, the articular cavity undergoing similar changes, all formation of the joint becomes lost; in the hypertrophic form the articular cartilage disappears, leaving under- neath porous cancellous bone (only rarely is it eburnated, as in rheumatoid arthritis), while at the margins of the joint there are prominent irregular bony outgrowths. The ligaments and capsule of the joints are lax, so that an abnormally free movement of the joint can be obtained, and the internal ligaments frequently share in the destructive process and disappear. In some cases the irregular ossification round the joints extends to the capsule and external ligaments. The synovial membrane is thickened and adherent to parts around; it may be studded with villous outgrowths, and in many cases it is partially destroyed. If an intra - articular fracture exists, as already mentioned may be the case, the condition is further complicated by the presence of loose or partially detached fragments of bone within the joint. OsTEO-Arthropathies.—The co-existence of bone and joint lesions is well exemplified by the lesions of the vertebral column as they occur in locomotor ataxy, and also better still by the " tabetic foot." VOL. VII The vertebral lesions are rare; they are characterised by spontaneous fracture of the bodies of one or more vertebrae associated at the same time with changes in the inter- vertebral articulations. The lumbar region of the spine is the part most often aff'ected, and a painless angular curvature develops, which, however, but seldom damages the spinal cord. The tabetic foot varies in its shape according to the different displacements of the tarsal bones. One of the commonest forms is the "flat foot," with thickening on the dorsum or instep, as described by Charcot; in other cases the long axis of the foot deviates outwards or inwards; sometimes the arch of the foot is raised. In a case recorded by Lunn there was great deformity of the plantar arch, the tarsal bones in front of the astragalus standing out very prominently on the dorsum of each foot. Sometimes the deformity is further complicated by an arthropathy of the ankle-joint, and as Targett has well shown, no form of dislocation can be considered peculiar to the tabetic foot. The changes in the bones of the tabetic foot belong to the atrophic type ; the bones are light and porous, with little tendency to fresh de- posits, and their articular cartilages gradually disappear as in the larger joints. The pi'esence of a perforating ulcer may greatly modify the appearances of the bones by the secondary in- fection which it is apt to set up. Arthropathies in Syringomyelia.—-In syringo- myelia changes occur in the joints which are almost identical with those already described in tabes, but they generally run a more chronic course, and the upper limbs are more liable to be affected than the lower. Mode of Production of Osteo-Arthropathies.— It is now generally conceded that osteo-arthro- pathies occurring in locomotor ataxy and syringomyelia are directly dependent upon the lesions of the nervous system. Volkman's idea that the joint affections in tabes were due to traumatism, owing to the irregular movements of the limbs, became un- tenable when it was known that the joints were frequently affected in the pre-ataxic stage of the disease; likewise Striimpell's theory that the lesions were syphilitic fell to the ground when their prevalence in syringomyelia, which has no special syphilitic antecedents, became an acknowledged fact. The estabhshment of "Charcot's joints" as a distinct disease apart from rheumatoid arthritis caused some hesita- tion, but a careful comparison soon made it clear that Charcot's claim for this separation was justified. The main points in which the two diseases differ are in distribution, mode of onset, presence of pain, and in the rapidity with which a joint may be destroyed. Tabetic arthropathies tend to affect single joints, while rheumatoid arthritis tends to affect several small joints. A Committee of the Clinical 13