PARALYSIS 282 paralysed side if the patient is able to walk. The gait is usually that characteristic of hemi- plegia, but it may be much modified by tricks which the child acquires for the purpose of overcoming his difficulty. The greatest atten- tion must be paid to the peculiarities of voluntary movement and to the contractures, since it is by the persistent treatment of these by training and surgical procedures that admirable results may be obtained in patients who when untreated never improve. There is almost invariably marked stunting of growth on the affected side, involving the half of the body up to the middle line. Such stunting is present even in cases where the paralysis has almost entirely disappeared. There is most stunting of growth in the most paralysed parts. The difference between the two sides is often very obvious when the scapulae and the two sides of the pelvis are compared. The shortness of the structures on one side of the body, especially of the lower limb, are responsible in part for the scoliosis, tilting of the pelvis, and dropping of the foot. When athetosis is present, however, the muscles in- volved in the spontaneous movement may be actually hypertrophied. The cranium, when asymmetrical, is usually smaller on the side corresponding to the cerebral lesion, and such deformity is accounted for by the non- occurrence of growth in the diseased cerebral hemisphere. Rarely the bone may be absent over the seat of the lesion, and a rounded aperture, through which the cerebral pulsation may be felt, may be present. According as the damage to the bi'ain is widely spread or not, and the prae-frontal lobes more or less affected, infantile hemiplegia may be associated with every degree of mental impairment from idiocy to the slightest mental impairment. Nearly all cases show some in- tellectual deficiency on reaching puberty; but whether this is always due to the cerebral lesion, or sometimes to the lack of training that infirmity and backwardness entail, is not clear, for it is certain that by careful training in childhood it may be reduced in some cases to an unimportant amount. Mental failure is generally severe in cases where recurrent con- vulsions become established epilepsy. Recurring convulsions are much more com- mon in infantile than in adult hemiplegia. Such convulsions usually date from the occurrence of the hemiplegia, but they may not occur till months or years after. The convulsions may be general; more fre- quently they are confined to the afi'ected side, and are then more common in left than in right hemiplegia. The onset is generally deliberate, often strictly local in its commencement, and consciousness is lost late. There may be transient increase of the paralysis after each attack. Aff'ections of the special senses, hemianopsia and hemiansesthesia, do not occur as lasting symptoms. Internal strabismus is not rare, otherwise the cranial nerves are unaffected. The sphincters are not affected. Slight trophic changes in the skin of the peripheral parts of the affected limbs are sometimes present, and in some degree vaso-motor paralysis is common. The superficial reflexes are generally dimin- ished upon the hemiplegic side, and the plantar reflexes on that side are of the extensor type; this extensor reflex is always marked where a pes cavus is present, but sometimes when there is a dropped foot, with toes rigid in the flexed position, a flexor type of reflex obtains. The tendon reflexes are exaggerated upon the affected side, and foot clonus is obtainable. Rigidity may, however, cause these signs to be difficult of elicitation. The knee-jerk upon the sound side is often more brisk than normal. Prognosis.—In the rarest event only is in- fantile hemiplegia fatal immediately after its onset, otherwise it has no tendency to destroy life nor to shorten life, except that the subjects of the malady offer less resistance, perhaps, to intercurrent diseases than do healthy children. Many cases improve rapidly, and the paralysis may leave slight clumsiness in moving the arm or leg, or recurring unilateral convulsions, as the only sign of its previous existence. Where lasting paralysis, rigidity, and contracture exist, slow improvement is still the rule, and it is difficult to say when such improvement is likely to cease, as cases go on improving long after puberty, especially if treatment be properly carried out. Mental impairment renders the prognosis of amelioration hopeless in proportion to its severity, as the re-education of movement upon which recovery greatly depends becomes impossible. Cases where athetosis exists never regain useful movement in the part where the spon- taneous movement occurs. Athetosis involves total permanent disablement in the region jof its distribution. Recurring convulsions render the prognosis worse in proportion to their fre- quency, persistency, and tendency to temporarily increase the paralysis; further, such attacks are not infrequently associated with progressive mental deterioration. The probability of im- provement is greater at a period close to the onset than at one more remote. If there be even the slightest voluntary power in all parts of a limb, however chimsy the movement, the probability that a useful working limb will result is great if treatment can be adequately carried out. If with a fair degree of intelligence present a child with infantile hemiplegia can walk at all, it may be safely said that he will walk well ultimately if treatment be properly carried out. Much, however, depends upon the treatment, which, as it is difficult, laborious.