374 PEDICULOSIS As in pediculosis corporis, patients, although cured, will get the crab-louse on the brain. In a case under my care, an elderly man, he turned up for some time with bits of dirty wool, scales, etc. carefully wrapped up in paper, under the impression they were pediculi. Even when these objects were placed under the microscope he was but half convinced. Pediculosis cerebri may also occur in such cases, and require care- ful management. The patient's tales should be listened to, and means taken to convince him of his error, if possible; but it is, as a rule, a hopeless task. The pubic hairs should not be cut, for the pressure of the clothes produces great irritation imtil the hair has become curled—a fact well exemplified after operations for hernia, etc., when the pubic hairs have been shaved. Pediculus. See Pediculosis. Pedicurei—A chiropodist (Lat. pes, foot, cura, care). Peduncle. See Pedicle. Peena,Sh>—An Indian term for parasites in the nose; myiasis narium. See Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites). Pelclda,.—A disease, resembling pellagra (q.v.), caused by eating infected maize; also, alopecia areata. Pelia.S. See Snake-Bites {Pelias, Common Adder-). Pela.g'in.—A proprietary preparation re- commended for sea-sickness. PeliOITI£l.—A livid spot (tache hleudtre of the French) due to the irritation of pediculi, to purpura, to rheumatism, etc. PeliOSiS Rheumatica. See Purpura {Arthritic); Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms, Cutaneous Manifestations, Purpura). Pellag^ra. Definition ...... 374 Geographical Distribution . . . 374 Causes 374 Morbid Anatomy ..... 377 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . 378 Prophylaxis and Treatment . . . 378 See also Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease {Diagnosis); Insanity, Etiology of {Exotocic Causes, Pellagra) ; Insanity, Nature and Symp- toms {Etiological Varieties); Nails, Affections op {Intoxications); Toxicology {Poisoning by Vegetable Foods, Maize). Definition. — A chronic endemic, non-conta- gious, cerebro-spinal disease of poverty-stricken peasants, induced by the toxic action of diseased maize. It produces changes in the spinal cord, stomach, and intestines; sometimes ends in dementia; and causes, chiefly in the spring months, an eruption on those parts of the skin exposed to the sun. The name is taken from the Italian "pelle," skin, and ^^agra," rough. Synonyms.—Malatia della miseria, Mai del sole, Malatia delV insolato di primavera, etc. In Egypt it is called " Qushuf," meaning chap- ping or roughness. History.—Pellegra has been known in Spain since 1735, following on the introduction of maize from America about 1700. About 1750 it was found in Italy, about 1820 in France, and towards 1840 in Roumania. Since 1856 it has been epidemic in Corfu, and of later years has been reported from Hungary (1888), Russia, Portugal, Egypt (1893), and other countries. Geographical Distribution.—In Europe it is known in Northern Spain, Northern Portugal, the south-west of France, Northern and Middle Italy, South Tyrol, parts of Austria-Hungary, Roumania, Bessarabia, and Corfu. From Asia it has not yet been reported, but many medical officers have recognised my photographs as a disease occurring among out-patients in India. In Africa it is common in Lower Egypt; rare in Upper Egypt, the Red Sea coast, and in Algiers. It has not been reported from South Africa, but I saw two cases there among the coloured lunatics on Robben Island in 1900. In America it exists in Mexico, the original home of maize, but is not known in the United States, where the poorest coloured folk live more luxuri- ously than the peasants of Italy or Egypt. It has not been found in Australia yet, but Dr. Neiret has reported it from the island of New Caledonia. It probably exists in every country where the poorest peasants live habitually on diseased maize. Causes. — Pellegra, analogous to ptomaine poisoning, is a chronic intoxication due to eating damaged maize or Indian corn {Zea Mays). Healthy maize, eaten as the chief article of diet, does not produce disease in men or poultry, and, as it contains almost the same percentage of nitrogenous matter as soft wheat and four times as much fatty matter, it stands in a high position as human food, and is more widely cultivated than any other cereal. Townspeople in maize- growing countries who buy their food in the market and vary it with other articles of diet never develop pellagra. In the same way, well-to-do agriculturists and their families and servants eat healthy maize almost daily and never suffer from the disease ; but the poorest peasant, who lives from hand to mouth, and either has the habit of buying the cheapest maize in the market, or sells the best of his own crop and keeps the worst cobs for home con- sumption, becomes in time an easy victim. Poverty, overwork, and miserable surround-