PFEIFFER'S BACILLUS 441 Pfeiffer'S Bacillus. See Influenza (Bacteriology); Nose, Examination op {Secre- tion, Bacteriological Examination of). Pfeiffer Phenomenon. See Im- munity {Recent Views). Pfl tiger's Law. See Physiology, Tis- sues {Nerve, Factors modifying Conduction). PhacO- or PhakO-. — in compound words phaco- (Gr. ^a/cds, a lentil or lens) means relating to the lens of the eye or to a lens ; e.g. phacomalacia (soft cataract), phacometer (an instrument for measuring the refractive power of lenses), and phacosclerosis (hardening of the lens). Phacoscopy or Phakoscopy.— The estimation of changes in the lens of the eye due to accommodation. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Monocular, Vision, Accommodation, Phakoscope). PhaenozygOUS.—The term applied to a skull having the zygomatic arches visible when viewed from above {norma verticalis); if they are not visible it is termed cryptozygous; the derivation is from the Greek <^atV<D, I bring to light, and ^vyov, a yoke or zygoma. Phagedsena.—A rapidly spreading and corroding ulcer (Gr. <payelv, to devour); spread- ing sore. See Skin Diseases op the Tropics (Tropical Phagedcena or Donda Ndugu). Phagocytes.—Cells of the body, fixed or free, having the power of ingesting and destroying micro - organisms or other foreign bodies; they are usually leucocytes. See Im- munity (Causes of Natural Resistance to Bac- teria) ; Immunity (Recent Views, Phagocytosis) ; Leucocytosis ; Malaria (Blood); Physiology, Nutrition (Blood and Lymph, Leucocytes). Phagocytosis. See Phagocytes ; Im- munity ; ETC. PhagOlysiS.—Destruction of phagocytic leucocytes or of other phagocytic cells. PhagOmania. — An insane desire or craving for food which may lead the victim of it to commit theft. Phalanges.—The separate bones which form the segments of the digits, each being termed a phalanx; also, certain processes in the organ of Corti in the internal ear. See Fractures (Phalanges). Phallus.—The penis (Gr. ^aXAos, penis) ; thus phallalgia means pain in the penis, and diphallus is the term given to the teratological state in which there are two penises. Phantasm or Phantasma.—An illusion or hallucination, especially, perhaps, in reference to an apparition. PhantasmoSCOpia.—The seeing of spectres or ghosts. Phantom.—A model of the body or of a part of it (e.g. the pelvis) used in the teaching of surgery, midwifery, etc.; also, a model of the foetus. Phantom Tumour. — Spurious or imaginary pregnancy, or the appearance of an abdominal tumour which further investigation (especially by percussion and palpation under anaesthesia) shows to be non-existent. See Ab- dominal Tumours, Diagnosis of (Tumours of the Parietes); Ovaries, Diseases of the (Ovarian Tumour, Diagnosis of); Pregnancy, Diagnosis OP (Differential, Spurious Pregnancy); Pseudo- CYESis ; Tumours (Phantom Tumours). Pharbitis Nil. See Kaladana. Pharmaceutic or Pharma- ceutical.— Belonging to pharmacy, or the art of preparing and dispensing drugs. See Pharmacy ; Prescribing. PharmaCO". — in compound words pharmaco- (Gr. (fidpi^aKov, a poison or drug) means relating to drugs or medicines. Pharmacodynamics.—The science of the effects or action of drugs. Pharmacognosy.—The knowledge of drugs, especially in their crude state, and their recognition by their physical characters. Pharmacology. Action of Drugs ..... 442 Pharmacological Action and Chemical Composition ..... 442 The Theory of Ions .... 443 Classification— I. Inorganic Substances . . . 443 (1) Salt Action .... 443 (2) Saline Purgatives . . . 444 (3) Saline Diuretics . . . 4:4c4: (4) Sodium, Potassium, Ammo- nium ..... 444 (5) Alkaline Hydrates and Car- bonates .... 444 (6) Chlorates, Oxalates, Sulphites, Hypophosphites . . . 445 (7) Halogens and their Compounds 445 (8) Acids 446 (9) Calcium and Barium . . 446 (10) Oxygen and Oxidising Agents 447 (11) Sulphur . . . .447 (12) Arsenic and Phosphorus . 447 (13) Heavy Metals . . .447 (13*) Metallic Ferments . . 449