178 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE temporal walls diverge so as to be nearly at right angles to each other. The nasal wall, formed from behind forwards by the sphenoid, ethmoid, lacrymal and superior maxillai-y bones, is the thinnest, and constitutes but a slender partition between the orbit and the adjoining ethmoidal sinuses and the superior and middle meatus of the nose. Posteriorly, where the body of the sphenoid enters into its formation, the wall is thicker and more resistant. At its anterior border, between the superior maxillary and lacrymal bones, is the lacrymal groove leading to the nasal duct. The roof of the orbit formed by the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone and the orbital plate of the frontal is very thin, especially in the middle and anterior portions, and is here readily perforated by disease or injury. In old age it may be so thin in places that the peri- osteum of the orbit and the dura mater of the anterior fossa of the skull are practically in con- tact. At the anterior and inner part it separ- ates the frontal sinus from the orbital cavity. The floor of the orbit is formed almost wholly by the superior maxilla and to a small extent by the malar and palate bones. It is for the most part thin, and separates the cavity of the orbit from that of the antrum. Traversing it from behind forwards is the groove carrying the infra-orbital nerve and artery. The outer wall is the strongest of the four, and in its surgical relations the least important. It is formed by the malar bone, the great wing of the sphenoid, and a small portion of the frontal bone. The cavity of the orbit is connected with adjoining parts by three important apertures. At the apex is the foramen opticuni passing through the base of the lesser wing of the sphenoid to the middle fossa of the cranium, and transmitting the optic nerve and ophthal- mic artery. The sphenoidal fissure, sometimes called the superior orbital fissure, lies between the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid; its inner end occupies the apex of the orbit, its outer narrower part is between the roof and the external wall. It communicates with the middle fossa of the skull and gives passage to the oculo-motor nerves (third, fourth, and sixth) and the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. The spheno-maxillary, or inferior orbital fissure, between the outer wall and floor of the orbit, leads posteriorly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and anteriorly into the zygomatic fossa. At its hinder end the infra-orbital nerve enters the bony canal in the floor of the orbit. The bony walls of the orbit are covered throughout by a thin periosteum, conveniently termed the " peri-orbita," which is directly continuous at the optic foramen with the dura mater and the dural sheath of the optic nerve. Its adhesion to the orbital walls is not very firm, except along the interosseous sutures and at the margins. Hence separation of the peri- osteum from the bone is readily induced by a collection of pus, or other products of disease, and is easily effected during operations when necessary. Contents of the Orbit.—The contents of the orbit comprise the eyeball, optic nerve, ocular muscles, lacrymal gland, vessels and nerves. These structures are supported by connective tissue and orbital fat. The connective tissue forms certain fasciae, which play an important part in the maintenance and control of the relative positions of the orbital structures. These are, chiefly, the tarso-orbital fascia, or palpebral ligament, attached to the margins of the orbit and to the tarsus of the upper and lower lid ; the fascia connecting the extra-ocular muscles with each other and with the margin of the orbit as check ligaments; and the fascia hulhi (or Tenon's capsule), a fibrous capsule surrounding the eyeball and forming a sort of socket in which the globe rotates. It is con- tinuous with the fascia of the recti and obliqui, and is reflected upon the tendons of these muscles where they pass through it. The blood-supply is derived from the ophthal- mic branch of the internal carotid artery, which enters the orbit through the optic foramen. The venous blood leaves the orbit by two main channels, the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins, which pass through the sphenoidal fissure to the cavernous sinus, into which they empty. There are numerous anastomoses between the branches of the ophthalmic veins and of the facial vein. The nerves of the orbit are motor nerves to the ocular muscles (third, fourth, and sixth); and sensory nerves derived from the first (chiefly) and second divisions of the trigeminus. The ciliary ganglion, situated close to the temporal side of the optic nerve, near the apex of the orbit, derives motor fibres from the third nerve, sensory fibres from the ophthalmic division of the trigeminus, and sympathetic fibres from the plexus on the carotid artery. The bony cavities in proximity to the orbit, and which are frequently in pathological relation to it, are the frontal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses, and the nasal fossse. Disease in any of these cavities may extend to the orbital tissues, or may lead to distortion of the walls of the orbit and displacement of its contents. The period of development of the sinuses should be borne in mind. The maxillary sinus or antrum begins to be formed during the fourth month of foetal life; the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses first appear during childhood, but remain of small size up to the age of puberty, when they undergo great enlargement. In old age these sinuses all increase in size by the absorption of the cancellous bone around them.