31 NEEVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA simultaneously, the nerve being avulsed, and any suspicious segment of the jaw removed at the same time. This radical method involves no serious surgical interference, and has the ad- vantage of excising the peripheral focus at the precise moment in which it is cut off from the central nervous system, so that there is the less risk of interference with the physiological rest of the latter by the vicarious connections of the former. Excision of the Gasserian ganglion is a serious operation, with a mortality of at least 10 per cent, and is therefore only to be undertaken in the most desperate cases. It is called for in persistent neuralgia after failure of the simpler operations, and in cases of severe epileptiform neuralgia. We have now to consider the various opera- tions adapted to dealing with the different branches of the trigeminal nerve. The supra-orbital nerve passes through a notch or foramen at the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the supraciliary ridge, and its position can usually be determined by feel- ing for the small bony indentation. From this point the greater part of the nerve turns up on to the forehead, where it immediately divides into branches. The eyebrow being shaved, a horizontal incision is made immediately beneath it, and is carried through the orbicularis palpe- brarum. Bleeding having been arrested by pressure, the notch with its nerve and artery are usually readily identified. The nerve is cleaned, and special care is necessary to ascer- tain that the whole of it is taken up on the hook, as two or more branches often lie side by side. The trunk being then drawn out by hsemostatic forceps, the peripheral branches are dissected out and cut off for as great a length as possible. Fine fibrous connections of the nerve to the pericranium should then be divided with the knife, and finally the trunk can be drawn out, often for an inch or more. The slight wound presents no difficulties, and heals readily. The supratrochlear nerve lies parallel with the supra-orbital nerve, but about a quarter of an inch nearer to the nose. It is reached by the same incision as that used for its larger com- panion, and these two branches should always be dealt with simultaneously. The infra-orbital nerve enters the cheek by the infra-orbital foramen, between a quarter and half an inch below the orbital margin, and on a line drawn from the supra-orbital foramen to the interval between the two upper bicuspid teeth. It is here exposed by a horizontal in- cision carried deeply through the soft structures of the face. At the bottom of this incision the foramen is most readily detected by the end of a probe, and the nerve is found issuing from it and at once breaking up into branches. All the branches should be caught up together, avulsion being performed in the usual way. Avulsion rather than section is here specially valuable, as the important dental branches of the nerve arise above the seat of operation. It has the incidental advantage of preventing bleeding should the artery be inadvertently seized with the nerve. The above operation has the disadvantage of attacking the nerve below the origin of its principal branches, and hence other and more complicated procedures are generally advisable. An incision may be made along the floor of the orbit through which the eyeball is turned up, together with all the orbital fat and the peri- osteum. The roof of the infra-orbital canal is now broken open and the nerve traced back as far as possible (Horsley). This operation fails, as does the facial method, to reach the posterior dental branches and Meckel's ganglion. Meckel's ganglion can be reached by the operation of Carnochan, or by the Braun-Lossen method. The former gives a very small area for manipulation, and by opening the antrum increases the dangers of septic infection; but both of these operations will be described. (1) In Carnochan's, or the antral method, a Y-shaped incision is made with its centre on the infra-orbital foramen and its lower limb opening into the mouth. The soft parts and periosteum are well retracted. The antrum is opened by a ^-inch trephine and its posterior wall perforated by a |:-inch trephine. The infra-orbital canal is opened from the antrum by careful chiselling. The nerve is thus laid bare, and can now be followed back to the fora- men rotundum and there cut away with scissors. Meckel's ganglion is not always seen, but generally comes away with the nerve. Bleeding- is very free, and requires prolonged sponge pressure or plugging of the wound. (2) The Braun-Lossen or pterygoid method is free from some of the disadvantages of the above. A curved incision is made from the external angle of the frontal bone along the upper margin of the zygoma, and thence down- wards to the angle of the lower jaw; in its lower part this incision must not extend beyond the superficial structures, and should not divide the facial nerve. The zygoma is then cleared by a horizontal incision through its periosteum, is sawn through before and behind, and is turned down with the masseter muscle. The mouth being slightly opened the temporal tendon is drawn well back or partially divided, and the pterygo-maxillary fossa is exposed. The internal maxillary artery is ligatured and divided as it crosses the external pterygoid muscle. Follow- ing the upper border of this muscle the foramen rotundum is now reached, and the second division of the trigeminal nerve there exposed. If the nerve be now divided at the infra-orbital foramen, its entire length can be drawn out by traction at its posterior point of exposure.