331 PARALYSIS, INSANITY ASSOCIATED WITH undoubtedly more prevalent and more pro- nounced in softening than in haemorrhage, be- cause when due to atheroma there is usually an extensive implication of all the cerebral arteries, which prevents reparative processes and inter- feres with brain nutrition, and because foci of softening are generally numerous and widely spread. The mental symptoms in brain soften- ing caused by occlusion of an artery, especially of the middle cerebral or one of its principal branches, are generally of a chronic and per- sistent character, their gravity depending upon the area and extent of area of the brain impli- cated, and upon the state of the brain and its arteries. Tumours.—The mental symptoms accompany- ing brain tumours depend upon their site, their size, and the rapidity with which they grow. In the larger tumours the character of the symptoms is influenced more by their pressure upon the brain, and less by their site. It has been held by some authorities that tumours of the occipital lobes are more detrimental to mental activity than tumours of the frontal lobes, and the contrary opinion is held by others. On that point, however, we have as yet no clear knowledge. In slow-growing tumours of con- siderable size, even when the cortex is largely implicated, the mental symptoms may be very slight up to the end. On the other hand, when the tumour by rapid growth gives rise to marked pressure symptoms, there is usually observable a varying degree of mental dulness and stupidity. The attention of the patients in such cases be- comes more and more difficult to rouse, until at last, except for the pain of the headache from which they suffer, they appear indifferent to all phenomena, either external or internal. When, on the other hand, the tumour is small and of slow growth, a great variety of elements would appear to complicate its relation to insanity. According to some authorities, there may occur moral changes with obsessions and impulses towards various antisocial actions, chief among which is violence. Without questioning this observation, it may be pointed out that many such tumours are of syphilitic origin, that many of the subjects are prone to indulgence in alcohol, and that some of them suffer from epilepsy. Apart, however, from these excep- tions, it may probably be admitted that not a few cases owe a change of disposition in the direction of moral decadence and impulsive con- duct directly to the presence of cerebral tumour. A group of cases exists in which the presence of tumour in the brain gives rise to acute insanity, with hallucinations and delusions which bear a striking resemblance to similar symptoms of toxic origin. The most commonly met with symptoms in cerebral tumour are confusion of thought and dulness of expression. This slow- ness in expressing ideas is materially increased by the peci;liar speech of the majority of the patients. The words are slowly and deliberately uttered, and the syllables scanned. In addition to the above symptoms there are commonly met with loss of memory, depression alternating with excitement, and emotional instability. A noisy delirium with hallucinations and delusions may occasionally be observed. Finally, com- plete dementia, generally accompanied with periodic convulsions, is met with in tumours of the frontal lobes. It is well to bear in mind that hysteria may be a prominent symptom of cerebral tumour in predisposed persons, and may so obscure the physical and mental symp- toms as to cause the diagnosis to be at fault (Gowers). Cerebral abscess, apart from its site or size, may cause acute insanity. It is true that beyond a certain amount of confusion, due to constitutional influences, some patients offer no mental symptoms indicative of cerebral change. In acute abscesses, especially those of traumatic origin, the mental dulness and confusion are prominent symptoms. The patients are ob- livious of their surroundings, answer questions at random or incoherently, they are listless, restless, dreamy, and often agitated. In addi- tion to physical symptoms depending on con- stitutional disturbance and local pressure the patients may manifest catalepsy, aphasia of different kinds, cortical epilepsy, Cheyne-Stokes breathing, and other irritative symptoms. In chronic abscess the mental symptoms of the latent period are usually obscure and unim- portant, and when more pronounced are gener- ally of the melancholic type. The latent stage in such cases is, however, generally terminated by such symptoms as stupor, delirium followed by coma, or by severe mental depression ending in coma. Paralysis, Klumpke's. See Klumpke's Paralysis. Paralysis, Landry's. See Paralysis {Flaccid Type, Landry's). Paralysis, Little's. See Little's Dis- ease ; Paralysis (Spastic Infantile, Cerebral). Paramastitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the mammary gland. Paramastoid Process.—A project- ing process of bone occasionally found on the under surface of the jugular process of the occiput; it sometimes articulates with the transverse process of the atlas. Paramedial Sulcus.—A sulcus (or several sulci) in the frontal lobe of the cerebrum, subdividing its superior convolution into upper and lower parts ; they are present in the human brain but not in that of the higher apes.