450 PHARMACOLOGY solvent power of bile in the intestine is required to make them effectual—e.g. in the case of scammony, podophyllin, jalap, etc. Pu7-gative Oils. — The two members of this series are castor and croton oil. The former is a bland oil which, when saponified in the in- testine, yields the irritating ricino-oleic acid, while croton oil yields a much more active croton-olcic acid. This, moreover, exists free to a small extent in the unsaponified oil, which is therefore a local irritant, producing pustula- tion when applied to the skin. Anthi-acene Se7-ies.—Rhubarb, senna, aloes, and cascara owe their properties to certain anthra- cene compounds (Cj^Hjo), of the exact nature of which little is known. In almost all instances the active principles—e.g. aloin, cathartin—are less efficient than the crude drug. Aloes is said to act especially on the lower bowel, while cascara has the advantage that toleration is not readily established. Rhubarb contains tannic acid, and is therefore astringent, causing con- stipation after the bowels have acted. In recent years synthetic anthracene bodies—e.g. purgen (phenolphthalein)—have been tried as purga- tives, but with no apparent advantage. Colocynth Group. — These bodies have in common the possession of resinous substances; the nature of their active principles is not well known. Jalapin is a glucoside found in jalap and scammony; elaterin, a glucoside found in elaterium. In podophyllin we have podophyllo- toxin; in gamboge, cambogic acid; while euony- min and iridin are also members of the series. All are active purgatives, and in most cases irritants when applied to any mucous membrane. The presence of bile is indispensable to the action of many. Euonymin has also a mild digitalis action. (3) Drugs Destructive to Intestinal Parasites. (Vide " Anthelmintics.") B.—Drugs the Action of which is mainly General, and due to Absorption Volatile Oils.—The large number of volatile or essential oils used in medicine have many points of similarity, so that it is possible to consider the whole group together. Volatile oils vary greatly in composition, their most common constituents being terpenes (Cf,Hg)„. In addition to these and other hydrocarbons they usually contain oxidised aromatic substances such as phenols, aldehydes, etc., many of which crys- tallise out at low temperatures and are then known as stearoptenes; camphor is the chief of these. All volatile oils are antiseptic, but are more destructive to moulds than to bacteria. When applied to a mucous membrane they first cause irritation, then slight local anmsthesia ; the latter is chiefly due to the oxidised crystallisable bodies. Their actioia on the alimentary canal is compre- hended under the term carminative, and they have no very special effect on the digestive juices. Small doses stimulate the circulation; larger ones paralyse both the heart and spinal cord. After being swallowed, volatile oils pro- duce leucocytosis; this, liowever, may simply be due to intestinal congestion, and not to a specific action. The channels by whicli they are elimi- nated are important, because there their local action also comes into play. They are excreted both by the lungs and kidneys, and perhaps to a small extent by the skin. Many volatile oils are used chiefly asflavoxir- ing or perfuming agents—aniseed, cinnamon, rosemary, etc.; some are employed specially as carminatives—peppermint, dill, ginger, and cap- sicum ; others, again, by reason of their nauseous flavour—assafcetida and valerian. A somewhat more important group is that employed for the sake of its action on the urinary tract; of this, juniper, copaiba, sandalwood, and cubebs are the chief members. The first of these is credited with special diuretic virtues; the others are used as urinary disinfectants. Copaiba is an oleo-resin, and chiefly the resinous constituent is eliminated by the kidneys. Certain volatile oils are employed principally on account of their effect in reducing bronchial secretion, e.g. eucalyptus and turpentine. The last is also used as an anthelmintic. Oil of savin and rue are reputed abortifacients. Camphor demands separate mention. It is a local rubefacient, and when swallowed is rapidly absorbed. In toxic doses it causes excitement, convulsions passing into stupor, and death from respiratory failure. In small doses it is a cardiac stimulant, slowing the pulse and raising the blood pressure. Camphor is readily soluble in alcohol, oil, and milk. Menthol (the stearoptene from oil of pepper- mint) has much the same action as camphor, and, like it, though in more marked degree, produces a sensation of cold when rubbed on the skin. The explanation is not clear; it is associated with numbness and a distinct local anaesthetic effect. Camphor forms a syrupy fluid when triturated with choral; a similar result follows mixture with thymol, menthol, or phenol, as well as when any pair of the drugs named are rubbed together. Oil of Bitter Almonds.—Certain substances, themselves containing no volatile oil, develop one when crushed with water. The bitter almond is one of these; it contains a glucoside amygdaline, and a ferment which in the presence of water decomposes the glucoside into dextrose, hydrocyanic acid, and benzaldehyde. The two latter constitute oil of bitter almonds, which owes its activity to the prussic acid. The same reaction takes place when laurel leaves, or the bark of the virginian prune, are bruised with water. Mustard gives an analogous reaction with water, a glucoside being split up by a ferment into dextrose and volatile oil of mustard.