PARASITES 343 zoites are developed. Sarcosporidia are of little or no pathogenicity. Only one, or at most two definite cases have been recorded in man. Sar- cosporidia are, however, common in the lower animals:— Sarcocystis Miescheri; Syn. : Rainey's tubes, measure up to 2-3 mm. long, and are of common occurrence in the muscles of swine. The de- tection of the sickle-shaped sporozoites would serve in a doubtful case to differentiate this sporozoon from an encapsuled trichina. Balbiania gigantea may attain the size of a small hazel-nut. It is found in the sheep and pig, chiefly in the oesophageal wall, tongue, and larynx. Doubtful Sporozoa. — Coccidioides immitis is probably one of the sporozoa, but is not a coc- cidium. It is found in the subcutaneous tissue of man, causing lesions which resemble those of lupus or leprosy. Cases have been recorded by Wernicke (1892), Rixford and Gilchrist (1897), and A. Posadas (1898). CiLiATA; Syn. : Infusoria, are characterised by the whole ectoplasm being covered with cilia. Three species have been found in the human intestine : (1) Nyctotherus faba (Schaudinn, 1899) ; found in one patient and probably sapro- phytic. (2) Balantidium minuttim (Schaudinn, 1899); found twice in Berlin, probably sapro- phytic. (3) i?a^am<?;c?mm co^i (Malrasten, 1857) is egg-shaped, 40-110 /a long, and of somewhat complex structure. It is commonly regarded as a saprophyte, whether the intestine be healthy or the seat of inflammation. Two cases have, however, recently been recorded (Strong and Musgrave, 1901 ; Solowjew, 1901) in which the parasite apparently caused acute and fatal ulcer- ative enteritis in the large intestine. In Solow- jew's case Balantidium coli was found in all the coats of the intestine, which presented marked signs of a vital reaction to the parasite. In the case recorded by Strong and Mus- grave, the parasite was found between the muscular layers, and there were numerous eosinophile leucocytes especi- ally in the submucosa. Doubtful Protozoa.—As is well known, there is an ex- tensive literature on certain structures which are often regarded as pathogenetic i'lG. 5.—Balantiilium t?i i ,> coli. (After Leuckart.) protozoa. Hixauiples are fur- nished by the " protozoa " of syphilis, measles, variola, and other infective diseases, by the " haemamcebse" of leucocy- thsemia and the " protozoa" of malignant tumours. In almost every instance proof is still lacking that these structures are really protozoa. They are all probably artefacts, cell inclusions or accidental structures of no etio- logical significance ; and in regai-d to the malig- nant tumours, it is instructive to remember that zoologists are unable to accept any one of the so-called carcinoma parasites as a protozoon. [During recent years great advances have been made in our knowledge concerning the patho- genicity of the protozoa, and we have now to recognise in many of these organisms infective agents second in importance only to the bacteria. They are higher life-forms than the bacteria, and while it is agreed that there is no hard and fast line between the two, the following character- istics serve generally to distinguish the protozoa. They are unicellular organisms, endowed usually with organs for locomotion as well as for the capture, devouring, and digestion of food. Their bodies have either no cuticle, or if there be one it is rarely of cellulose; they invariably contain nuclear material. The most important distinc- tion, however, concerns their reproduction and life-history. In many, if not all cases, the pro- tozoal life-cycle consists of alternating sexual and asexual phases. It is this feature which renders their study so difficult, because the different phases of the same organism are often so dis- similar as for long to escape identification. Re- production in protozoa takes place by (a) siinj^le fission, which may result in the production of two symmetrical organisms (binary fission) or may be asymmetrical (budding or gemmation); the third form of reproduction is (6) multiple fission, or sporulation, in which the nucleus breaks up simultaneously, or divides successively, into a number of individuals. This asexual reproduction may continue for many genera- tions, but cannot go on indefinitely. Like the Metazoa, the protozoa ultimately become senes- cent and die, unless rejuvenation takes place by sexual conjugation. Such weakening with age has been experimentally demonstrated in the paramcecium, by isolating the individuals as they are reproduced by fission, and thus pre- venting sexual conjugation from taking place. After a number of generations unmistakable signs of old age appear, and the race dies out. Sexual reproduction may occur at different parts of the life-cycle in different forms ; it consists in the fusion of the nuclei of two individuals— gametes, which may be either young individuals or adults, and may be similar or dissimilar. In the case of union of dissimilar individuals (aniso- gamy), one is usually smaller and more motile than the other, while the second is full of reserve material; the former is regarded as the male, the latter as the female, element. Not only may the gametes differ from one another, but the generation {gametocytes) which produces the gametes may be differentiated from the ordinary members of the species. Thus a species may be highly polymorphic with a re- current cycle of different forms: ordinary asexual or vegetative cycle, and gametocytes, gametes, male and female, of the sexual cycle. In so far as most of the pathogenic protozoa