37 NEURASTHENIA would be if all the ten were capable of doing their full share of work. The work of any organ would certainly cause the sensation of fatigue more rapidly if half the neurones en- gaged in that work repaired themselves with difficulty than wcnild be the case if repair in all the neurones went on at a normal rate. Congenital neurasthenics of a high grade are people who may truly say of themselves that they were "born tired, and have been tired ever since." Acquired neurasthenia, whether traumatic or non-traumatic, is the result of strain, or of some considerable interference with the normal rate of nutrition. In traumatic cases the strain has been more acute and direct than in the non- traumatic cases. But " undue strain " is itself a complex phrase. It implies that the strain is considerable, and that it is more than the individual is fit to meet. A task that would strain a pony is nothing to a cart-horse. To preclude strain the back mvist be fitted to the burden, and if it is not so fitted there is dis- turbance of due balance between waste on the one side and repair on the other, between the dissipation of nervous force and its recuperation, and a complex train of nervous symptoms arises which we ascribe to " strain." But in trying to define " strain" it is of prime importance to remember that the whole thing is relative. Most of us have known people who can carry on work at high pressure under conditions that would be impossible to the general run of human beings, and for a very much longer time. For instance, Balzac is said to have written more than one of his novels at a sitting, keep- ing himself going for an almost incredible number of hours upon coffee, and taking no sleep till the entire volume was finished. It seems even to have been his rule for several years to rise at midnight, after six hours' sleep, and to work at his desk without intermission, but for a little food and much coffee, for fourteen or fifteen hours. The writer knows a contractor who makes the most abstruse calculations, in- volving immense sums of money, with his children romping round him while at work. He dictates to two or three secretaries in succes- sion, going from one to another, and wearing out relays of them, sometimes for forty or fifty hours at a stretch, without sleep and with only snatches of food. Then he will say, "Excuse me, gentlemen, I am a little tired," and he lies down on the sofa, sleeps for twenty minutes, awakes quite fresh, and is ready to begin again. A man of this type must have powers of re- pair very superior to the average, and to such a one indirect strain from prolonged brain-work would be almost impossible as long as his amazing and unusual powers of recuperation last. Directly he becomes imable to sleep between his bouts of work, from anxiety or any other cause, symptoms of strain will appear. While his health lasts, and things go well with him, more work will not easily strain him. No doubt also, though he can to a great extent postpone food and sleep when necessary, he does in the end take plenty of both. He works longer and harder than ordinary people can, but he can sleep and eat to match when the work is done. Where there is undue strain the individual is often not merely working as hard as he can, but he is trying to do work for which he is not fitted, or he is doing it under distracting conditions. Very often ambition has outrun power. A large number of cases of non-traumatic neurasthenia begin in early adult life or in adolescence. It takes several years for people even of good stock to recover from the strain put upon them by rapid growth and by development. Young adults, and especially young women, are far less fit to stand hard work at nineteen or twenty years of age than they would be, if all goes well with them, at thirty. If they overtax their powers, and if their nerves of digestion break down, sleep presently goes too, and the vicious circle which we call neurasthenia is round them. Still more likely is this to happen if there is an inherited tendency to poor nervous vitality, though the individual himself has not hitherto been con- scious of nerve weakness. Deficient or imperfect metabolism is also probably an important etiological factor in many cases of functional nervous disturbance or failure. When metabolism is imperfect not only is nutrition checked, but there is a result- ing auto-intoxication which must itself directly interfere with normal nerve functions. A large part of what can be done to improve the nutrition of nerves has to do with qviickening metabolism, getting rid of waste material, and bringing the leucocytes everywhere into a higher degree of resisting power as against noxious influences {vide "Immunity," vol. iv. p. 347). The effect of a general increase of the natural powers of resistance to bacteria which leucocytes possess is well shown in the results gained by the open-air and high-feeding method of treating tuberculosis. In functional nervous disease we know of no bacterium which has to be resisted and checked in its development, but the success of the Weir Mitchell method, which in many important points resembles the new treatment for tuber- culosis, shows how much benefit the nervous system can obtain from promoting the general metabolism of the whole organism. The presence in the blood plasma and lymph of the chemical products resulting from imperfect metabolism must also seriously interfere with the nutrition of the nervous and other tissues. Symptomatology.—The symptoms of neuras- thenia vary almost indefinitely with the part of the nervous system at fault. Sometimes the failure seems to be limited to the cells of the