NOSE-POSTNASAL ADENOID GEOWTHS 95 lither deafness due to Eustachian catarrh, or i habit of constant cold-taking. Nevertheless, !;eneraUy speaking, one lays it down as a prog- lostic rule that the older the patient beyond dxteen years, the more guarded should be the prognosis, although, whatever the patient's age, ve are justified, provided the symptoms are lefinitely associated with nasal obstruction, in irging operation. In defining a prognosis, lowever, care must be taken, where the main jonsideration is the deafness, not to assume ;hat, because the patient is deaf and there is a nass of adenoids, the former must be caused 3y the latter. Labyrinthine deafness is by 10 means rare in children with and without idenoids, and there should be no difficulty in ietermining the precise nature of the deafness 'rom inspection of the membranes before giving I prognosis. In the neuroses also, whether isthma, laryngismus, chorea, or convulsions, ;he prognosis must be guarded, although in Dad degrees of obstruction we may be hopeful )f securing remarkable results. The treatment resolves itself into the question )f operation and a brief inquiry as to the value jf local remedies. To answer the latter first, I 2iay affirm, after a somewhat extended trial of istringents, that they are absolutely useless, 3xcept in the case of very recent and rapid developments of the obstruction, such as one sometimes sees after measles, whooping-cough, 3tc. In such instances we must, I think, as- sume that we are dealing with a condition comparable to a subacute tonsillitis, and may expect as much good from the application of astringents as in the latter case. But the astringent employed must be weak, and there is nothing better than glycerine of tannic acid, fifteen or twenty drops to the ounce of water. It should be injected along the inferior meatus, care being taken that it is not directed into the middle passage, which is curiously intolerant of all applications of an astringent nature. But where the history of the symptoms justifies the supposition that the disease has been in exist- ence for over a twelvemonth, I do not think that the treatment is of any use ; while in very small patients the local applications may cause so miich distress that an operation is an alto- gether less formidable proceeding. And indeed the operation skilfully performed is so simple a matter, causes so little discomfort, and invites such infinitesimally small risks, that one is justified in thinking that in any case of doubt as to whether or no an operation is necessary, he ought to decide in its favour. The safety of the operation mainly depends upon the administration of the anaesthetic; and much argument has been used as to the rela- tive merits of chloroform, gas, ether, and of their various admixtures. Nitrous oxide is in high favour at the present moment in certain quarters; and in adults, where there is no tendency to recurrence of the growths and perfect removal is less essential, I often employ it. And in the newer methods of continuous administration, or of combining it with oxygen, the operator may, by a clever angesthetist, be afforded all the time that he requires. But the objection to its general use lies in this fact that the degree of anaesthesia is too profound, the pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes annulled, and that consequently the risks of blood, and still more of portions of the growth, especially when the curette is used, finding their way into the glottis, are considerably increased. To ether the same and other objections apply, viz., that it is necessary to operate with a deeper degree of anaesthesia than is desirable, while the bleed- ing is undoubtedly, as also with gas, greater than with chloroform, and the subsequent misery is far in excess of that due to either chloroform or its admixtures. Consequently I consider that chloroform, either alone or mixed with ether or alcohol, or both, according to the fancy and experience of the administrator, is altogether the most perfect ansesthetic for adenoid operations : (i.) because of the super- ficial degree of anaesthesia of which it permits, (ii.) because of the less haemorrhage, and (iii.) because of the minimum subsequent misery. If chloroform be the anaesthetic chosen, the patient must lie fiat on a table, the head being neither raised nor lowered—though it was the general custom a few years ago to allow the head to hang over the back of the table, as if to lessen the risk of the blood entering the larynx. But the objection to the latter position lies in the increased venous engorgement and conse- quent haemorrhage, not to mention the danger of blood entering the Eustachian tubes and ex- citing a suppurative otitis media. On the con- trary, if the patient is lying flat on a table he can be turned on the side in a moment, and the blood allowed to flow from the mouth and nose ; while, should the haemorrhage be profuse, the operation can be completed on the side. Usually it is necessary to cut one or both tonsils at the same time, the practice of making a separate operation of tonsillotomy having no plaiisible excuse. The gag should be held at first in the right side of the mouth by the anaes- thetist, and the left tonsil removed with a spade tonsillotome ; the gag is then reversed and the other tonsil removed. There is good reason for preferring a relatively blunt instrument, partly because the haemorrhage is less when the amount of pressure used to thnist the blade through the tissues is greater, and partly because it holds the severed structure more securely. Next the surgeon, still standing on the right side of the patient, thrusts the forefinger of the left hand into the postnasal space with the palm upwards, followed by the forceps or curette, as the case may be, held in the right. If the forceps are used—and they have the advantage of bringing