301 PARALYSIS atrophy in which heredity plays so prominent a part. Adults are alone affected, and most commonly between the ages of forty and fifty; the bulbar form of the disease does not occur in young subjects, and although the spinal form may do so, it is rare for even this form to begin before the age of twenty-five. Men are more often affected than women. In many cases no exciting cause can be determined; but various causes have been assigned in different cases, and it seems possible that some of these may have something to do with the generation of the disease. Of intoxications, syphilis and lead have each been credited with a deleterious influence of this kind. Blows to the back and injuries that cause general shock to the nervous system have been supposed to be effective, and there are cases in which atrophy has commenced in a limb that has received an injury. Exposure to cold, sexual excess, anxiety, mental strain, and worry have all been regarded as exercising an unfavourable influence of the same kind. Morbid Anatomy.—The precise changes met with in the nervous system depend on which neurones are affected, spinal or bulbar, or both, and as to whether or not the neurones of the sensori-motor cortex are concomitantly involved with degeneration resulting in their axones in the pyramidal tracts. It is the exception to meet with cases in which degeneration of the pyramidal tracts is not present, though a few such cases have been recorded. In cases of this kind, although there is no degeneration of the pyramidal tracts, there may be some de- generation of the white matter of the ventral part of the spinal cord in the region of the ground bundles. The essential change in this class of case is a degeneration and atrophy of the cells of the anterior horns. There may be an entire disappearance of the cells from some parts of the cord, while in other parts some cells remain, though many of these are much reduced in size and are obviously atrophic. The fine nerve fibres which course through the anterior horns are also reduced in number, and there is much increase in fibrous tissue, which replaces the degenerated nerve elements. All these changes lead to shrinking of the anterior horns, which are accordingly much reduced in size—it may be to an unequal degree on the two sides, when the disease is more advanced on one side than on the other. No roimd cell infiltra- tion, or other evidence of inflammatory reaction, is present, although in some cases the blood- vessels are found engorged. The degenerative changes are usually most pronounced in the cervical part of the spinal cord, to which region they may be limited; but the lumbar part of the cord is, of course, similarly affected in those cases in which the muscles of the lower extremities have been atrophied during life. When the motor nuclei of the medulla and pons are implicated there is degeneration and atrophy of the cells of their neurones, in every way similar to the degeneration which occurs in the cells of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. The fine nerve fibres that course through the nuclei degenerate and disappear, and the nerve elements are replaced by proliferation of connective tissue. The hypoglossal nucleus is the chief seat of the degenerative changes in these cases, but similar, though usually less pronounced changes are met with in the facial, the motor fifth, and the vago-glosso-pharyngeal nuclei. In those cases in which there have been spastic phenomena during life, and even in others in which there has been no suspicion of this, extensive degeneration of the pyramidal tracts is found, and it may be possible to trace the degeneration of the axones that comprise these tracts from the sensori-motor region of the cerebral cortex to the lowest part of the spinal cord. Moreover, the cells of these neurones in the cortex are degenerated and atrophied; many of them are shrunken and their axones and dendrones are atrophied and broken off, while the cells of other neurones have entirely dis- appeared. It is the large pyramidal cells of the cortex that undergo this atrophic change, and the degeneration of their axones can be traced through the corona radiata, internal capsule, crus, pons, and medulla oblongata to the spinal cord. The degeneration of these axones may be seen in the spinal cord alone, however, without evidence that the degenera- tion extends all the way up the pyramidal system to the cortex, or it may be traced from the cord up to the medulla or pons, while the motor path above this is free from degeneration. These changes in the pyramidal system are met with in association with degeneration of the cells of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, or of those of the motor nuclei in the medulla oblongata, and pons, while in other cases both the motor nuclei in the bulb and the anterior horns are affected in conjunction with the degeneration of the pyramidal tracts. Pathology.—The changes met with in the central nervous system are due to a slow pro- gressive degeneration of the motor neurones, whether these be affected in the anterior horns, in the nuclei of the medulla and pons, or in the cerebral cortex, though why there should be this premature death of the nerve elements is a question that has yet to be solved. The possibilities are that there is a congenital pre- disposition to early decay, or that some toxic agent, capable of selective action, attacks the motor neurones. The most generally accepted view as to the structural independence of the iipper and lower neurones makes it clear that, whatever the influence may be which determines the degeneration and death of the nerve ele- ments, the lower neurones of the cord and