NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 24 changes in the peripheral nerves in most cases, and this has been verified by the pathological examination in several instances; but the writer has found the peripheral nerves normal microscopically when the knee-jerks have been absent. In the late stages of the diabetes, and especially in diabetic coma, the knee-jerks are absent in most cases, but not in all (see article " Diabetes Mellitus "). In addition to the loss of knee-jerks other symptoms, probably of neuritic origin, are sometimes present, such as frequent cramps in the calf muscles, gnawing pains in the legs, tenderness of the calf muscles, numbness and tingling, and feebleness of the legs. The calf muscles may be so tender on pressure, that the patient is unable to bear one leg upon the other in bed. In rare cases actual paralysis of the legs, with dropped feet, and symptoms similar to those of alcoholic neuritis are present. Occasionally perforating ulcers of the feet are met with, and usually they are associated with slight or well-marked indications of neuritis. In a few cases pain, paresis, and neuritic symptoms have been observed in the distribu- tion of the anterior crural and obturator nerves. Rare forms of localised paresis or paralysis of single muscles (probably of neuritic origin) have also been described. In a few cases, the clinical diagnosis of peripheral multiple diabetic neuritis has been confirmed by pathological examination. The changes have usually been those of parenchymatous (degenerative) neuritis. (In a case recorded by Eraser aud Bruce, segmental periaxial neuritis was found.) In most of the cases of diabetic neuritis recorded the patients have been over the age of fifty, and often the amount of sugar in the urine has been small. In severe forms of diabetes in younger patients (with abundant sugar excretion) well-marked neuritis is ex- tremely rare. Hence diabetic neuritis is be- lieved to be due, not to sugar, but to the presence of some other associated toxic sub- stance in the system. Other Forms of Neuritis.—Neuritis occa- sionally follows influenza. It may affect all four limbs, as in alcoholic neuritis ; but this is rare. More commonly it is localised in certain groups of muscles or certain parts of one or two limbs. There are other cases of neuritis in which no cause can be ascertained, so-called idiopathic multiple neuritis. In these cases the symptoms may resemble those of multiple neuritis from alcohol and other causes. In several cases of this form of neuritis double facial paralysis has been recorded; it was present in one of the writer's cases. Many cases recorded as Landry's paralysis have probably been due to peripheral neuritis (see article on this disease, and monograph by Drs. Ross and Bury on peripheral neuritis). (For description of neuritis in beriberi and leprosy see articles on these diseases.) The other forms of neuritis are too rare, and too closely resemble the forms already con- sidered, to permit of separate description in this article. In the work of Dr. Ross and Dr. J. S. Bury, and in Remak's recent monograph, detailed accounts of these rare forms are given. Treatment of Multiple Neuritis.—The most important point as regards the treatment of multiple neuritis is to discover the cause, and, if it be some toxic substance entering the system daily, further chronic poisoning should be pre- vented. In alcoholic neuritis all alcoholic beverages should be discontinued. Also in other forms of neuritis it is well to forbid alcohol, or to allow only a very small quantity in order that there may be no risk of " combined " toxic action. In neuritis from lead, arsenic, mercury, carbon disulphide, naphtha, carbon monoxide, dinitro- benzene, it may be necessary for the patient to change his occupation or to take special pre- cautions to prevent the entrance of these poisons into the system. (In all cases of doubtful origin, beer or alcoholic beverages taken by the patient should be examined for arsenic.) Complete rest in bed is most important in all forms of neuritis (with the exception of lead neuritis). It is very desirable that careful attention should be paid to the feeding, and the patient should have an abundant quantity of suitable nutritious food. Milk, cream, eggs, fatty food and codliver oil are thought to be of much service. In alcoholic neuritis it is often necessary to remove the patient to a hospital or nursing home in order to prevent the alcohol being con- tinued. As tuberculosis so frequently occurs as a complication in alcoholic neuritis, it is most important that the patient's room should be well ventilated, and that all precautions should be taken to prevent the possibility of tubercular infection; also in view of this risk everything should be done to improve the general nutrition. In the early periods of the disease it is usually necessary to give drugs for the relief of pain, such as antipyrin, antifebrin, phenacetin, and salipyrin ; cocaine or opium may be occasionally necessary. The limbs are sometimes more com- fortable when surrounded by cotton-wool. For sleeplessness sulphonal, trional, or chloral-amide may be necessary; if there is also much excite- ment a small dose of hyoscine is often of service. If the heart's action is feeble small doses of digitalis are advisable. In the chronic stages of the disease tonics, such as quinine, strychnine, cod-liver oil, are indicated, and potassium iodide