8 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF the outer sheath, this condition being known as perineuritis. Sometimes the neuritis involves chiefly the interstitial connective tissue of the nerve—interstitial neuritis. In other cases the nerve fibres themselves are chiefly affected— parenchymatous or degenerative neuritis. Pathological Anatomy.—In perineuritis the connective tissue around the nerve is red and swollen; the small vessels of the sheaths are dilated and full of blood ; occasionally there are small hjBmorrhages. The hypersemia is followed by serous transudation and extravasation of leucocytes between the sheath and the nerve bundles. At the seat of the changes a local spindle-form swelling develops. When the con- dition is more advanced round cells infiltrate the septa of the nerve, and may penetrate between the nerve fibres, causing an interstitial neuritis, and finally the nerve fibres degenerate. A localised proliferation of connective tissue may cause nodular swellings at one or more points, producing a nodular disseminated neuritis. In interstitial neuritis, cell infiltration and changes similar to those mentioned affect the connective tissue between the nerve-fibres, which generally degenerate secondarily. In parenchymatous or degenerative neuritis the nerve fibres break down and present changes similar to those of Wallerian degeneration, after division of a nerve. The parenchymatous neu- ritis may develop primarily, or it may be secondary to an interstitial or peri-neuritis. (Periaxial segmentary neuritis is described under lead neuritis.) Localised neuritis of a nerve is followed by secondary degeneration down to the peripheral jaart of the nerve-fibres; whilst the central portion of the nerve, i.e. between the local neuritis and the cord, usually remains unaffected. Symptoms.—Slight constitutional disturbances may be present, but the chief symptoms are local. The most important is pain, localised in the nerve or its area of distribution, but some- times affecting the whole limb. The pain is boring or burning in character, rarely darting, it is increased by movement; it may be absent when the nerve is chiefly motor. A superficially situated nerve may be felt to be swollen, and is very sensitive to pressure. Rarely there is slight redness of the skin and slight ojdema superficial to the nerve. In the distribution of the nerve there is first parsesthesiaandhypersesthesia—later, anaesthesia and paralysis and atrophy of muscles supplied. Rare skin affections are glossy skin and herpes zoster. The electrical excitability is increased, then diminished, and finally a reaction of de- generation may be obtained. In the interstitial neuritis the development is very chronic ; pain and tenderness of the nerve are less marked. In the parenchymatous neuritis swelling of the nerve cannot be detected. The nerve is much less painful on pressure. The other sensory and motor symptoms are much the same. Diagnosis. — The important indications are the pain and tenderness of a nerve, and the localisation of the symptoms to its distribution. In neuralgia the pain is more intermittent than in neuritis, and there are not the loss of sensa- tion and muscular paresis in the distribution of the nerve (see section on Neuralgia). Treatment.—Removal of the cause, if possible, is the most important point. Treatment for gout, diabetes, or syphilis may be indicated. Perfect rest of the affected part is necessary. Sir Wm. Gowers thinks no drug has such a distinct infliience on the neuritic process as mercury—a grain of blue pill twice a day. Hot fomentations in the region of the nerve are of service for the pain; sodium salicylate and antipyrin may be given ; morphia and especially cocaine, injected locally, are of great value. In the chronic stage counter-irritation by a blister, or the application of galvanism, is of service. A weak current should be used, the anode being- placed over the affected nerve.^ Diseases and Injuries of Special Spinal Nerves Phrenic nerve, see article on " Diaphragm." Brachial plexus and its cords, see article "Brachial Plexus." Nerve to the Se?-ratus Magnus [Posterior or Long Thoracic Nerve).—Paralysis of this nerve is produced by injury in the supraclavicular fossa or axilla. It may be due to injuries to the shoulder; it is occasionally produced through carrying heavy weights on the shoulder, especi- ally if any sharp corner of the article has pressed into the supraclavicular fossa. Prolonged or violent muscular exertion with the arm raised has produced the paralysis, probably owing to severe compression of the nerve by muscular tissue through which it passes. The writer has seen the paralysis produced during parturition by prolonged and violent traction on a towel fixed to the head of the bed. Occasionally paralysis of the nerve has followed diphtheria, typhoid fever, influenza. Sympto7}is.—At the onset there is sometimes neuralgic pain in the neck or about the shoidder. Lesion of the nerve causes paralysis of the ser- ratus magnus muscle. On abduction of the arm to the horizontal position, the scapula on the paralysed side is nearer the vertebral column, and its posterior border is raised from the thorax. When the arms are put forwards horizontally in front of the chest the posterior edge of the scapula recedes from the thorax, causing a deep groove at this part. Elevation of the arm above the shoulder is much weakened ; but if the lower angle of the scapula be pushed forwards and 1 The affections of |ieripheral cranial nerves are de- scribed separately {see " Cranial Nerves" for Index).