PARASITES 355 lumen of the intestine, to be afterwards evacu- ated with the fseces of the host. The second generation, Angidlhda stercoralis, has a free existence : in foul water the embryos discharged from the host become mature, the females are oviparous, whilst the subsequent embryos are again of the same form as the parasitic genera- tion, and if ingested by a suitable host develop into the mature Anguilluloe intestinalis. The parasite is found in Cochin China, Ceylon, Africa, Brazil, Italy, Spain, and other parts of Europe. Strong has recorded a case in the United States {J. Hopk. Hosp. Rep., x., 1901), and gives many bibliographical references. The parasite is not of great pathogenicity, having been detected in apparently healthy persons; but in tropical and subtropical climates it is present in great numbers in some cases of enteritis, and is not infrequently associated with Ankylostoma duodenale. As the eggs of the parasitic generation are uncommon in the faeces, diagnosis will, as a rule, be possible only after detection of the embryos in the stools. FiLARiiDiE. —The members of this family, and the morbid conditions they give rise to, have already been considered in vol. iii. Trichotrachblid^. — Trichocephahis trichi- urus (Linne, 1771); Syn.: Trichocephalus Fig. 22.—Eggs of Trichocephalus hoininis. (After Hosier and Fig. Trichocephalus Peiper.) hominis: a, male ; 6, female; nat. size. (Manson, after Blan- chard.) hominis (Schrank, 1788); T. dispar (Rudolphi, 1801); etc.; whip worm ; is of a pinkish-yellow colour. The male is 40-45 mm. long, the female about 50 mm. long; in each the anterior three- fifths of the body is long and thin like the lash of a whip, the posterior two-fifths being much thicker (about 1 mm.) and in the male spirally curved. The male has only one spicule. The eggs are oval, possess a brown shell, within which is a thick doubled contoured membrane prolonged at each pole to form a prominent and characteristic projection. The human subject is almost the only host. The parasite lives in the caecum and adjacent parts of the large intestine, being present usually in scanty, but sometimes in large, numbers. The thin anterior portion of the worm, containing the oesophagus, is usually buried in the mucosa. The parasite is found in all parts of the world, in persons of all ages, and is probably a very common parasite, more particularly in Italy and Egypt. The eggs are passed with the faeces, and the embryos then develop. Infection occurs by eggs contain- ing embryos being conveyed to the mouth with the food, or by means of the hands when soiled with contaminated earth, etc. In many instances the trichocephalus causes no symptoms, being probably present in scanty numbers; in other cases, when probably many of the parasites are present, it causes profuse, long continued, and intractable diarrhoea to which considerable anaemia and wasting are superadded. The cause of the anaemia is to some extent indicated by the presence of iron pigment in the intestinal epithelium of the worms. The stools are loose, yellowish, contain abundant characteristic eggs, and not unfre- quontly blood and Charcot-Leyden crystals, the latter, however, being of no diagnostic signifi- cance. Metschnikofi" (1901) shows that the trichocephali can also cause symptoms resem- bling those of appendicitis, and J. Girard (1901) in one case found the parasites in the vermiform appendix, causing appendicitis. The diagnosis is easy if the stools be examined microscopically. In a case of mild infection the prognosis is good, but in a severe case is somewhat unfavour- able. Treatment is best carried out by the use of thymol. In the morning when fasting 30 grains are given in capsule, and a strong purga- tive in the evening. This is repeated on the two following days. Peiper recommends benzine internally as well as enemata containing the same drug. Many species of trichocephalus are parasitic in the lower animals. T. affi,nis, for example, is found in the ox, goat, and sheep; T. crena- tus, which Leuckart regarded as identical with T. hominis, is parasitic in the pig; and T. un- gniculatus in the rabbit and hare. They are common parasites, but are not considered to be pathogenetic. Trichina spiralis (Owen, 1835) is parasitic in two forms : (a) the sexually mature adults in the small intestine; (b) the immature em- bryos or larvae encap- sules in the voluntary muscles. The adult tri- chime.—The male is 1"5 mm. long and 0*04 mm. broad; the anterior end is pointed, the posterior extremity is bi'oader, has no spicules, but has two conical appendages, one on either side of the cloaca. The female is 3-4 mm. long and 0'05-0-06 mm. broad, and viviparous. The vulva is situated in the anterior fifth of the body. The fertilised ova, having passed into Fig 23.—Trichinseencapsuled in muscle. (After Mosler and Peiper.)