DISEASES OF 402 PERICARDIUM, constituting the visceral layer of pericardium. Laterally and anterioi-ly, save for a small tri- angular area in front termed the anterior medi- astinum, the pericardium is in contact with the pleura; posteriorly it is in relation with the oesophagus, aorta, trachea, and the root of the left lung. The phrenic nerves pass down, one on either side of the sac. Diseases op the Pericardium Pericarditis.—Pericarditis, or inflammation of the pericardium, may be sero-fibrinous or suppurative. The former is by far the most common variety, and may be acute or chronic. As a result of the latter, or of relapsing peri- carditis, adhesions may form between the parietal and visceral layers of pericardium, constituting the condition known as " adherent pericardium." Acute Fibrinous or Sero-fibrinous Peri- carditis.—-Etiology.—Rheumatism is by far the most common cause of pericarditis. In child- hood and early adolescence, from the ages of eight to twenty-five, rheumatism is especially liable to attack the heart, setting up pericar- ditis and endocarditis, with myocarditis in vary- ing degree. In later life, while the articular manifestations of rheumatism are usually more severe, the heart is less frequently attacked. Chorea.—Pericarditis occurring in association with chorea may be regarded as of rheumatic origin. The Role played by Micro-Organisms in Peri- carditis.—The belief has long been held that acute rheumatism is a disease of microbic origin, and that pericarditis and endocarditis are local manifestations of the activity of the rheumatic micro - organisms. Of recent years various observers have turned their attention to this question. In 1886 Mantle wrote a paper on the subject. In 1881 Achalme isolated and described a short bacillus which he considered pathogenic of rheumatism, and his views were supported by Thiroloix and Bettencourt. In 1898 Triboulet isolated a diplococcus from the blood of a patient suffering from acute rheuma- tism, and by inoculating it into a rabbit pro- duced endocarditis. In 1899 Wasserman ob- tained from the blood and pericardial fluid of a rheumatic patient pure cultures of a diplococcus which, inoculated into rabbits, gave rise to pyrexia with polyarthritis, but no valvulitis. In 1900 Dr. Paine and Dr. Poynton brought forward important and apparently conclusive evidence that rheumatic fever is due to a minute diplococcus which they consider iden- tical with that described by Wasserman and Triboulet. This organism they have demon- strated in the fluid in the pericardium and in joints, and also in the tissues of patients sufl'er- ing from rheumatic fever. They have also isolated it from the pericardial fluid, and after growing it as a pure culture on suitable media and in pericardial fluid have inoculated it into rabbits, reproducing in them polyarthritis, peri- carditis, endocarditis, myocarditis, and pleurisy. It would appear, therefore, that we are justified in regarding pericarditis as one of the local manifestations of the activity of the rheumatic diplococcus, and must look upon it not as a complication of rheumatism, but as an integral part of the disease. Pleurisy and Pneumonia.—Pericarditis may occur in association with pleurisy and pneu- monia, possibly by direct extension of the in- flammatory process, but more probably through the agency of the specific micro-organisms which were the cause of the primary disease. In view of the recent researches by Dr. Paine and Dr. Poynton mentioned above, it seems probable that in rheumatic subjects, when pleurisy is associated with pericarditis, both may be due to the rheumatic diplococcus. The same may hold good of pneumonia in some cases; but it has been shown that the pneumococcus may set up pericarditis, and when pneumonia is the primary affection the pneumococcus is usually found to be the cause also of the pericarditis if a bacteriological investigation is made. The Acute Specific Diseases. — Acute peri- carditis may occur as a complication of scarlet fever, variola, erysipelas; rarely of measles, typhus, enteric fever, and malaria. Bright's Disease.—Pericarditis is met with as a complication of Bright's disease most com- monly in association with granular kidney or subacute parenchymatous nephritis. Traumatisvi.—Injuries to the pericardium by a fractured rib, or by a foreign body, such as a needle or fish-bone lodged in the oesophagus, or gunshot and punctured wounds, may set up pericarditis. Tuberculosis and Malignant Disease.—Tuber- cular pericarditis is usually secondary to pulmonary tuberculosis, tubercular disease of the mediastinal glands. Malignant disease and new growths may occasionally invade the peri- cardium and set up pericarditis. Suppurative pericarditis will be discussed later. Morbid Anatomy.—In the early stages the pericardium becomes hyper{Emic and congested, and assumes a dull red colour instead of its normal glistening appearance. Exudation of serum and leucocytes takes place from the congested vessels, and soon both visceral and parietal layers of pericardium become coated in patches or throughout their surface with a thick layer of yellow sticky lymph. From the friction together of the two inflamed surfaces the lymph coating them acquires an irregular, ragged, or honeycomb appearance. The in- flammatory lymph on the surface of the peri- cardium may be reabsorbed, but frequently becomes vascularised and organised into fibrous tissue, gluing together the two layers of