397 PEMPHIGUS cent of boric acid. Whichever of these applica- tions be used, it must be applied thickly, so as to soak up all discharge at once. Epidermolysis Bullosa Hereditaria.—This disease was separated off from true pemphigus in 1882 by Goldscheider. The name was, how- ever, suggested by Kobner, and is not perfectly satisfactory, inasmuch as the disease, although frequently a family affection, is by no means always hereditary. The condition is usually noticed soon after birth, and not infrequently during the first washing of the child. The skin " comes off" with the friction of the towel, leaving a raw, weeping surface beneath. A day or two later it is noticed that blisters are oc- casionally present, though in the early period of the child's existence any bullse formed are so quickly ruptured that they may escape observa- tion. As the child grows older and begins to move about it is found that the slightest friction or pressvire is sufficient to cause a bulla to rise, often with blood-stained contents. The child is henceforth almost constantly exhibiting large areas of skin denuded of its surface epithelium, and, since the epidermis is lost to a great depth, scarring of a superficial nature is the rule, and contiguous surfaces not uncommonly heal to- gether. Thus in a series of three cases in one family of children all had acquired more or less webbed fingers and toes. Some parts of the body are, of course, more exposed to trauma than others, and consequently show the ravages of the disease more markedly than others. Thus in addition to the webbing of the fingers already mentioned, a condition only seen in severe cases, the nails are almost invariably broken, deformed, or totally lost. Besides the skin, the mucous membranes may also be affected, and in more than one case it has been noted that the patient has suffered from haematemesis, with the vomit- ing of oesophageal casts. The teeth are in most cases lost very early in life, owing to an abnormal brittleness and tendency to caries. Etiology and Pathology.—Little is known on this subject. The disease occurs very distinctly both as a family affection and in sporadic cases. Descent from the father or mother has been ob- served, but it is more usual for several members of the same generation to be affected. As regards the pathology, some observers claim to have discovered lesions in the superficial blood-vessels, while others have described a peculiarly unstable condition of the basal layer of the epithelium. I am inclined to think that in neither case was the anatomical abnormality found the basis of the disease, but rather the effect of bygone traumatic lesions. Thus in endeavouring to obtain an apparently normal piece of skin from a patient, I found that the whole surface was so studded with fine, small, superficial scars that this was impossible, and in the piece that I eventually examined I found only a slight mantle of cells round the vessels, especially marked under a spot where the epidermis was markedly thinned by diminution of the stratum mucosum, and which corresponded to one of the fine scars. Such a condition I have never seen in any other disease, and can only describe it as an epidermic scar. The treatment of this affection is naturally unavailing, and all that can be done is to see that the child is as far as possible protected, and that later on it never has food at too high a temperature or too highly spiced. If lesions occur on the fingers, careful bandaging must be resorted to to prevent any healing together. There appears to be some tendency to out- grow the affection, but I am unaware of any recorded case in which the condition has entirely ceased. The diagnosis is simple. A pemphigoid erup- tion beginning in the earliest period of life, un- accompanied by any deviation from health, and called forth by trifling injury, makes a clinical picture which can be mistaken for no other disease. Pendeloques.—The pendulous append- ages on the neck in goats and pigs, perhaps represented by cervical auricles in the human subject. Pendulous Abdomen. — The for- ward and downward projection of the anterior abdominal wall and contained organs found in relaxed conditions, e.g. in the later months of pregnancy in some cases. See Labour, Pro- longed {Causes). Penjdeh Sore. See Furunculus Orientalis. Penici Ilium.—A variety of fungus (pencil-fungus), e.g. penicillium glaucum or common mildew. Penis, Surg^ical Affections of the. See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases OY {Malformations, etc.); Circumcision; Eczema {Penis); Rectum, Diseases of {Stricture, Symp- toms, Pain in Penis); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Impotence); Teratology {Double Penis, Diphallus). Inflammatory Affections Balanitis or Balano-Posthitis.—This consists in inflammation of the glans-penis and inner sur- face of the prepuce. It is common in dirty people, and is predisposed to by a long foreskin, in which secretions decompose and set up in- flammation. It has been divided into venereal, catarrhal, diphtheritic, gouty, herpetic, and diabetic. The venereal form is due to retained discharges of gonorrhoea and venereal sores. The catarrhal form is due to decomposition of retained smegma in phimosis. Gouty balano-