PERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 432 tional remedies, whilst the open-air treatment and forced feeding may be adopted as early as possible if the symptoms show any tendency to become subacute or chronic. Chronic tuberculous poitonitis includes an ulcerating form in which the tuberculous deposits show a tendency to caseate, and a fibrous form in which numerous adhesions are formed. The onset of these forms of chronic tuber- culous peritonitis is usually so gradual as to pass unnoticed. The patient becomes languid, loses flesh, has a hectic temperature, and only complains of tympanites and a little abdominal tenderness. The abdomen, if there be ascites, gradually enlarges until it is I'ounded and shiny with many dilated veins on its surface. The cause of the ascites is not fully known. It may disappear spontaneously, but its reappearance does not seem to be always coincident with a recrudescence of peritoneal tubercle, and it is not necessarily most abundant in cases where the liver changes are most marked. The fluid is either free in the peritoneal cavity or it is localised. When it is free, the abdomen, as in ordinary ascites, is dull on percussion in front and resonant in the flanks, the line of dulness altering with the position of the patient. When the fluid is localised the cysts can be detected as tense swellings which are usually situated above the umbilicus. The caseating masses of tubercle can often be felt as nodules within the abdomen. The disease in its fibrous form lasts months or years, and shows a tendency to undergo spontaneous cure, but in the caseating form the patient usually dies of lardaceous disease unless he is carried off" by meningitis or the exhaustion produced by diarrhoea. Complications.—A latent pleurisy, secondary to inflammation of the peritoneum, is the most common complication of chronic tuberculous peritonitis. A transient meningitis is some- times observed, characterised by violent head- ache, vomiting, slowness of the pulse, and some retraction of the head. Sometimes the liver is profoundly aiTected, the cells undergoing fatty degeneration. Fcecal fistulte, too, may be formed by the tuberculous inflammation spread- ing inwards through the bowel wall, or, more rarely, outwards from ulceration of the intes- tine. These Astute may discharge themselves at the umbilicus in the unopened abdomen, though they usually appear at the scar when an abdominal section has been previously per- formed. They are usually of bad omen, but they sometimes close spontaneously. 1 have lately had a boy under my care who suff'ered from most of tiie sequelae of tuberculous peritonitis, and as his case is fairly typical, it may be stated briefly. He was a sciiool-boy, aged six years, who had never enjoyed very good health, but for the week before he was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital he had been more poorly than usual. He vomited at intervals and complained of severe stomach- ache. He had been obstinately constipated, but never to the extent of complete obstruction. On his admission to the hospital on July 5, 1901, he was in obvious pain, the stomach-ache being limited to the left side of his abdomen. The abdomen was full, but was not markedly distended, and the right rectus abdominis was less rigid than the left. A rectal examination showed that the anterior wall of the rectum was somewhat bulged backwards, but no definite tumour could be felt. During the two days following his admission to the hospital the patient's condition became worse, the abdomen was more distended, the pain increased, and there was a considerable amount of intestinal obstruction. We made a diagnosis of tuberculous periton- itis leading to the formation of bands of adhesion. I opened the abdomen in the middle line below the umbilicus by an incision two inches in length. The coils of small intestine were adherent to each other and to the parietal layer of the peri- toneum, and a thicker band of fibrous tissue appeared to be constricting a loop of small in- testine just opposite the centre of the incision. I divided this band, gently separated the ad- hesions, and then passed my finger downwards first into the right iliac fossa to exclude the possibility of an appendicitis, afterwards into the left iliac fossa where the patient had com- plained of most pain. Nothing abnormal was felt on the right side, but as soon as the coils of intestine on the left side were disturbed, a gush of stinking pus escaped to the amount of four or five ounces. I allowed as much of the pus to escape as possible, and then passed a large rubber drainage-tube deeply into the iliac fossa, partly closed the wound with sutures of silk- worm-gut, and dressed it with cyanide gauze. The patient did well from the 18th to the 25th July, when the symptoms of intestinal obstruction again occurred. I therefore re- opened the wound and found numerous adhe- sions binding together several coils of small in- testine. I freed these adhesions, and assured myself that there was no longer any pus pent up in the peritoneal cavity. Three days after the operation he had a faecal fistula—for the discharge from the abdomen was distinctly ftecal—and charcoal given by the mouth appeared at the wound in five hours. This fistula closed spontaneously, the fteces ceasing to pass on 22nd August. He left the hospital fat and well on 1st September. Treatment.—The ordinary palliative means must first be tried in every case of chronic tuberculous peritonitis, and if these fail, an abdominal section yields the most satisfactory results if the patients submitted to operation are selected with moderate care.