515 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM arrived at by an examination of the excreta. In this country the diet of a labourer consists of something like the following proportions of food constituents:— Amount. Yielding Calories. Proteins . .120 492 Fats . . .100 930 Carbohydrates . 500 2050 The energy is here expressed in heat imits, Calories—the amount of heat required to raise 1 kilogram of water through 1 degree centigrade. Of the total 3472 Calories of energy daily taken in the food, only 14 per cent is derived from proteins, the rest comes from the carbohydrates and fats. The same is found to be the case in the diet of many other animals, such as the horse. Thus during muscular work the three great constituents of the body and of the food— proteins, fats, and carbohydrates—are broken down to liberate their energy, and apparently the muscle tends to use the non-nitrogenous fats and carbohydrates in preference to the proteins. Only when forced to do so does it take a large proportion of its energy from these substances. It may be urged that in athletic training proteins must be a source of energy, since ex- perience has taught that they are of such value. But their great value is as material from which the energy-liberating machine, the muscles, can be built up and increased, so that it can dispose of larger and larger quantities of food. Muscle then is a machine which has the power of liberating energy from proteins, fats, and carbohydrates, but it uses proteins more espe- cially in construction and repair. The muscles liberate energy from these sub- stances by breaking them down into simpler molecules, just as a blow causes the disintegra- tion of nitro-glycerine and liberates its stored energy. There is not such a direct oxidation as occurs in the coals in the furnace of an engine, for, if this were so, the consumption of oxygen would always be equivalent to the elimination of carbon dioxide and the other products of dis- integration. It has, however, been shown that a frog, deprived of all free oxygen by placing it in the receiver of an air-pump and then trans- ferred through mercury to an atmosphere of nitrogen, still continues to produce carbon di- oxide. This means that its oxygen must be intramolecular, must be in the muscle molecule, like the oxygen of nitro-glycerine. Probably the presence of this oxygen is one of the causes of the instability of the molecule. The muscle then takes these substances into itself—makes them part of its molecule—assimi- lates them before breaking them down. It is not necessary to suppose that all the substances are equally intimately associated with the muscle protoplasm. In all probability the protein be- comes much more truly a part of the muscle than the carbohydrates and fats, but with each one of them it is essential that it should come into the domain of the muscle and not simply remain in the blood and lymph, in which it cannot be used. B. Visceral Muscles.—In several important respects the visceral muscles differ in their mode of action from the skeletal muscles. 1. Their connection with nerves is by no means so definite and precise, for, instead of each nerve fibre ending in a muscle fibre, the nerves to non-striped muscle form an irregular network upon them, and the muscle-fibre appears to be capable of action, possibly before these nerves have developed in the embryo and when the influence of these nerves has been cut off in the adult. In the intestine the mode of action of the muscles is largely dominated by the plexus of nerves {see vol. viii.). 2. The great features of the action of visceral muscle are—1st, its tendency to sustained tonic contraction; and 2nd, its spontaneous regular rhythmic contraction and relaxation. \st. The continuous slight tonic contraction is seen in all the visceral muscles; and, while it may be increased or diminished by the inter- vention of nerves, it appears to be chiefly an expression of the continuous metabolism of the muscle protoplasm. 27id. The rhythmic contractions and relaxa- tions are not equally manifest in all situations, nor are they so continuous; but they are well marked in the muscles around such hollow viscera as the intestines, bladder, and uterus. Like the tonic contractions, they are to a certain extent independent of nerve action, but are in- fluenced by it. These contractions recur at regular intervals of varying duration. Each contraction lasts for a considerable period—sometimes over a minute —and the relaxation is correspondingly long. Everything which increases the rate of chemical change increases the rapidity of the rhythm. Thus warming the muscle and the action of a galvanic current have this action. 3. When the muscle is at rest, a contraction may be produced by any of the modes of stimu- lation which will cause the skeletal muscles to contract; and it may thus be demonstrated that the latent period is very long. 4. Unlike skeletal muscles, the extent of contraction is not increased by increasing the strength of the stimulus. The smallest available stimulus causes the maximum contraction; but if the same stimulus is repeated at regular inter- vals the resulting contractions become greater and greater during the application of the first four or five stimuli, so that the record of a series of contractions has a somewhat stair-like appearance. 5. A series of stimuli do not cause a tetanus, but simply increase the rapidity and force of the individual contractions.