PALATE 236 Fine sponges, sponge-holders, sterile lint or ganze. Fine cat-gut for ligatures. For sutures, silver wire of medium thickness, silkworm-gut, horse- hair, and possibly cat-gut. Hare-lip pins are seldom necessary, and are not to be recommended. Collodion, and strips of gauze cut in the shape of a dumb-bell for dressings. Steps of the Operation.—The child should have its head slightly raised and steadied by the aneesthetist, and the movements of its arms controlled. Chloroform is the more suitable antesthetic. The surgeon stands on the side to be operated upon, or at the head of the patient. His assistant controls the coronary arteries by grasping the lip between the finger and thumb, and sees that no blood enters the air passages. Operations for Unilateral Hare-Lip.—I. When the cleft is partial, and the nose not flattened. The simplest operation is Nelaton's. A A- shaped incision is made parallel to, and just outside, the edge of the notch through the whole thickness of the lip. The mucous membrane is drawn down, and the A incision converted into a ^. Sutures are now inserted, and the ^-shaped opening closed, so that a vertical cicatrix will result, with a projection of the red margin of the lip. The projection may at first be excessive, but it afterwards diminishes in size. The stages of the operation may be represented thus A, {). This method is not so satisfactory as a primary operation, but is extremely useful when, as the result of a previous operation, a notch has been left at the red margin of the lip. A better plan is to pare the edges so as to leave a concave surface on each side, at the same time removing the apex of the cleft, or to employ one of the methods advised for a com- plete cleft. IL Li partial cases, where the nose is flattened, a strip of the whole thickness of the lip must be removed by an incision prolonged into the nostril, and the ala nasi freed, as in cases of complete cleft. IIL When the cleft is complete, and extends into the nostril. 1. The lip and ala nasi must be freely separated from the bone in the manner already described. 2. The edges are pared. Many methods have been employed, which vary according to the degree of symmetry of the margins of the cleft. {a) The simplest method, where the margins are equal, is to pare them by carrying incisions directly downwards, and parallel to the outside edge of each cleft, and to prolong the incisions sufficiently to remove the rounded margins of the cleft at the red border of the lip. This method yields excellent results. (b) The incisions may be made parallel to the margins of the cleft, terminating just above the labial margins, at which spot two transverse incisions are made in the substance of the lip. This enables two tags or flaps to be turned down, in order to form a projection. If the tags be too long, they may be shortened to the necessary extent. (c) The method of Rose yields very satisfactory results. The edges of the cleft are pared in a crescentic manner until the muco-cutaneous junction is reached; the knife is then turned, and the mucous membrane of the lip cut at an angle of about 60° to the former incision. The depth of the lip is thus increased, and no notch results. If this method be employed where the nose is much flattened, more tissue ought to be removed from the outer side than the inner. Where there is a wide gap, and marked in- equality of the margins of the cleft, the flap method of Mirault, or one of its numerous modi- fications, is very serviceable. The inner mesial margin is pared in an angular method, so as to leave a raw surface ; the outer margin is pared, and a flap as thick as possible obtained from the outer side. The edges of the pared cleft are then united, and the flap brought across and attached to the inner margin. When the nose is much flattened the outer wall of the nostril should always be rawed, and also the opposing side of the septum, so that these surfaces may be brought together. Instead of paring the edges of the cleft, they may be split. This method, which saves sacri- fice of tissue, is especially useful where the margins of the cleft are thin. It is founded upon the principles of the operation, introduced by the late Mr. Duncan many years ago, for the closure of faecal fistula, and has been strongly advocated by Mr. Chiene. The lip is split at the junction of skin and mucous membrane nearly down to the red margin, sufficient room being left to turn down two tags to form a prolabium. The fissure is closed by uniting the skin to skin, and mucous membrane to mucous membrane. Unilateral Alveolar Hare-Lip.—In this variety the deformity is usually great, and the nose markedly broadened. The margins of the cleft alveolus may be on the same level; usually they are not. A useful preliminary to the operation, in cases where the margins are un- equal, is to have gradual pressure made by the mother or nurse upon the projecting margin, combined with outward traction upon the de- pressed side. By this means considerable improvement is often brought about. If this has not been done, the pressure of the sutured lip will suffice in slight cases to overcome the projection. When the deformity is very marked the