PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 537 situated under the aqueduct of Sylvius, and separate parts preside over the ciliary muscle and the sphincter pupillse (see p. 559). The sphincter centre is reflexly called into action, and the pupil contracted—1st, When strong light falls on the retina and stimulates the optic nerve. In this way the retina is pro- tected against over-stimulation ; 2nd, When the image upon the retina becomes blurred as the object approaches the eye. At the same time CM s.f: D.P- Fia. 56.—Nerve supply of the intrinsic muscles of the eye. (See text.) Years. 10 20 Near point in cms. 30 50 the centre for the ciliary muscle is also called into play to produce accommodation. The centre for dilatation of the pupil is situated in the medulla oblongata. Like the centre of the sphincter it may be reflexly excited, stimulation of ingoing nerves causing a dilata- tion of the pupil when the medulla is intact (Fig. 56). The dilator fibres pass down the lateral columns of the spinal cord to the lower cervi- cal and upper dorsal region, where they arborise round cells in the anterior horn. From these, fibres pass by the anterior root of the second {2 D.N.), possibly also of the first and third dorsal nerves, and, passing up through the inferior cervical ganglion, run on to the superior ganglion, where they arborise round cells which send axons to the Gasserian ganglion of the fifth cranial nerve (F.), and from there the fibres pass along the ophthalmic division and its long ciliary branches to the dilator fibres of the iris {D.P.). The importance of the course taken by these dilator fibres is considerable, because diseases of the spinal cord in the lower cervical and upper dorsal region (the cilio-spinal region), and tumours in the upper mediastinum, may inter- fere with their action, and by stimulating cause chronic dilatation of the pupil, or by paralysing prevent dilatation of the pupil. Since the dilator muscle fibres of the pupil have not been demonstrated in all animals, it has been sug- gested that the nerve may act by inhibiting the sphincter pupillse ; but the evidence on this point is not conclusive. A peripheral mechanism exists in the muscle of the iris which may act independently of the central nervovis system, as may be seen in the eye of a decapitated cat, and various drugs act directly upon it—e.g. physostigmin caus- ing a contraction of the pupil by acting upon the nerve endings, and pilocarpine by acting on the muscle fibres. Adrenalin causes a dilatation by acting on the nerve endings, and atropine by acting in the same way. The power of positive accommodation varies at different ages, being greatest in young children, since in early life the lens is most convex. The distance of the near point in cms. is represented in the accompanying figure. The " range of accommodation," i.e. the difference between the " near point " and the " far point," steadily decreases as age advances. After about sixty years of age, on account of the flattening of the lens, even parallel rays cannot be focussed except by using positive accommodation. This is the fully-developed condition of Presbyopia— old-sightedness (Fig. 58, B). Imperfections of the Dioptric Mechanism.— (1) Hyperrnetropia.—The eye of a considerable number of people is too short from before back- wards, and thus, in the resting state, parallel rays are focussed behind the retina, and in order to see even a distant object the individual has to use his positive accommodation. As the object is approached to the eye it is focussed 60 22 100 Fig. 57.—To show variations in the range of positive accommodation throughout life. with greater and greater difficulty, and the near point is farther off than in the emmetropic eye (Fig. 58, C). The long-sighted eye differs from the slightly presbyopic in the fact that not merely divergent, but also parallel rays, are unfocussed in the resting state. The condition is corrected by using convex- glasses which render the rays convergent, and, therefore, capable of being focussed upon the retina of the shortened eye. (2) Myopia. — In certain individuals the