276 PARALYSIS fevers occurring during pregnancy are of great importance as etiological factors in this disease. Syphilis is a most important and by far the most common maternal disease standing as a causal antecedent to cerebral diplegia. Premature birth and precipitate labour, difficult labour and asphyxia neonatorum, are frequent associated conditions, and until recently were held as the essential factors of the disease. It is, however, only an infinitesimal minority of prematurely born children who become afflicted with diplegia, and the difficulty of labour asso- ciated with diplegia is not that due to obstruc- tion in the parturient path, but that due to uterine inertia, itself a sign of an abnormal maternal state. It is highly probable, therefore, that abnormalities of birth stand not in causal relation with the disease, but are concomitant effects of a morbid maternal state. In the consideration of cases of cerebral diplegia, arising after birth, stress must be laid upon the fact that the post-natal appearance of symptoms of disease is no proof that the disease was not congenitally determined. The possibility of an acute disease immediately pre- ceding the onset of symptoms being in some cases only an immediate exciting cause, bringing into evidence a latent pathological condition, must also be borne in mind. Most cases of post-natal cerebral diplegia do not follow any known acute disease. Cases have been reported in which the onset of symptoms directly followed the occurrence of the following acute diseases: gastro-enteritis, scarlet fever, measles, mumps, pneumonia, acute rheumatism, typhoid, diphtheria, and influenza. The clinical picture of cerebral diplegia, in all its forms, presents a combination, in vary- ing degrees, of certain characteristic symptoms always bilaterally represented, though often more severe upon one side of the body than the other. These symptoms are: muscular rigidity, paresis, perverse movements, contrac- tures, and increased deep reflexes. Mental deficiency is commonly present. According as one or more of these symptoms preponderates over the other and dominates the clinical picture, certain striking types may be distinguished :—(1) General rigidity, where the spasm and paresis are more or less uniformly distributed throughout the whole body. (2) Paraplegic rigidity, where the lower extremities alone are markedly affected. (3) Bilateral athe- tosis, where slow perverse movement, occurring chiefly in the peripheral part of the limbs, is obtrusive. (4) Choreiform diplegia (congenital chorea), where the perverse movement is quick and occurs chiefly at the proximal joints of the limbs. (5) Congenital spastic idiocy, where the mental deficiency is very marked, and the other symptoms slight. One-half of all cases of di- plegia are of the type "general rigidity," and one-quarter " paraplegic rigidity "—the remain- ing fourth being distributed equally between the other types. Clinical Aspect.—In the majority of cases of generalised rigidity and in athetotic and choreic diplegia, the symptoms date from birth. Often in slighter cases the symptoms are only mani- fested when the child begins to crawl about or to walk. The attention of the parents may be drawn to the fact that something is wrong with the child by its being backward in talking and mentally unlike other children, and examination may then reveal slight generalised or paraplegic rigidity. The nurse, in washing the child, is often the first to notice the unnatural stiffness of the limbs. In congenital athetotic and choreic forms, the symptoms become much more evident when the child begins to get about. In cases where the symptoms are noticed first some time after birth, a careful attention to the history of the case will generally reveal some abnormality of the child, indicating that the case was con- genital, and separating it from cases of post- natal origin. Such symptoms, as difficulty of swallowing, strabismus, nystagmus, slight per- verse movements (choreic and athetotic), slight rigidity, the regular assumption of an unnatural attitude, and pes cavus, are likely to be noticed by those who tend the infant, and are of great value in that they may be the earliest signs of disease to attract attention. In post-natal cases the disease is often ushered in by a group of symptoms resembling the pro- dromal symptoms of acute anterior poliomyelitis, namely, malaise, anorexia, headache, slight fever, and sometimes vomiting. These symptoms last from one to four days, after which the symptoms of diplegia gradually make their appearance. The onset of the disease is frequently with con- vulsions, either a single attack of convulsion or repeated attacks. After such convulsions the symptoms of diplegia may come on slowly, or may develop from a condition of general paresis of the limbs and trunk which immediately follows the convulsive attack. Sometimes both convul- sions and febrile symptoms, lasting a few days, occur at the commencement of the disease, and this has been more often noticed in cases of post-natal paraplegic rigidity. In other cases the onset is gradual, and is not accompanied either by convulsions or febrile symptoms, and it may be many weeks before the symptoms reach moderate intensity. Such chronic onsets sometimes date from some trauma to the head, often of a trifling nature. A slow onset without definite initial symptoms is the rule in cases commencing after childhood. The course of the disease, speaking generally of all types, may be either regularly progressive, or the symptoms, having reached a certain de- gree of intensity, may either remain stationary or tend to some slight amelioration. In severe cases of generalised rigidity, and in most athe- totic forms, a progressive course is the rule,