PHARMACOLOGY 444 the case of mercuric chloride the action of the chlorine ion is comparatively trifling. The simplest example of salt action is afforded by sodium chloride, which, being al- ready largely represented in the tissues, has practically no specific action, and accordingly all its effects are explicable on physical grounds alone. In dilute (hypotonic) solutions it tends to penetrate mucous membranes, while in con- centration (hypertonic solutions) it withdraws fluid from them and causes irritation. The rate of absorption from the stomach and bowel depends on the strength of the solution; a hypotonic solution is rapidly taken up by the tissues, while when it is hypertonic there is a period during which it receives water from the blood, until it becomes isotonic. Accompanying this inflow or outflow of fluid the blood and lymph become diluted or concentrated as the case may be. The result of the ultimate ab- sorption of the salt is to increase the activity of the kidneys, which excrete the excess of sodium chloride. If, however, the sodium be given in very large amount, or if the kidneys be in- competent, it may be retained in the body and give rise to oedema. Sodium chloride, from leading to an increased flow of lymph through the tissues, is a stimulant to tissue change. (2) Saline Purgatives.—The essential feature of these is that even in dilute solutions they are absorbed from the bowel with some diffi- culty, i.e. their ions do not readily penetrate the epithelium. The chief saline purges are sulphate and phosphate of soda, sulphate of magnesia, bitartrate of potassium and sodium, and the citrates of potash and magnesia. The peculiar effect is largely due to the anion, since not all potassium or sodium salts possess an aperient action; but in the case of magnesium salts the kation is also efficient, for magnesium chloride and carbonate are mild relaxatives, while tlie corresponding sodium salts are not. The most active aperients of this group, there- fore, are those—e.g. Epsom salts—to both ions of which the intestinal wall is comparatively impermeable. From what has been said, the action of salines will readily be understood. Though the details of the process are unsettled, speaking broadly, what happens is that in dilute solutions they pass down the bowel without being absorbed, while in hypertonic solutions they also excite a flow of water into the bowel. In either case the intestinal contents remain unusually liquid, and are readily discharged. Salines do not act by causing irritation of the intestinal walls as vegetable aperients do. If for any reason, such as too great dilution, or dehydration of the tissues, a saline is not evacu- ated, it is gradually absorbed into the blood, and then excreted by the kidney, causing diuresis. (3) Saline Diuretics.—Certain drugs are used chiefly on account of their diuretic action, and though this has been incidentally referred to above, it requires a further word of explanation. The chief salts so employed are the acetates of potash, sodium, and ammonium, the nitrates of sodium and potassium, and the alkaline citrates. Nitrates, besides causing diuresis partly through their salt action (c/. sodium chloride), and partly from a directly stimulant action on the kidney, produce, when given in large doses, gastro-intestinal irritation, dysenteric motions, suppression of urine, and coma. Citrates, diuretics through their salt action only, are excreted as carbonates, and thus render the urine less acid. Sodium citrate precipitates the calcium salts in the blood, and in this way diminishes its coagulability. This action has been made use of where it is desired to prevent or lessen thrombosis. Other soluble citrates have a similar action. Acetates have the same diuretic action. Both these salts have this advantage over carbonates, that being neutral until after absorption they do not disturb gas- tric digestion. The acetates are also credited with diaphoretic properties. (4) Sodium, Potassium, and Ammonium.— Before discussing other and more active salts it will be convenient to refer to the properties of these bases. For practical purposes, we may regard the sodium ion of the salts used in medicine as inert. The action of potassium is on the whole depressant, producing slowing and weakening of the heart and a fall in blood pres- sure. In animals, the nervous system is also depressed and the muscles are paralysed. Am- monium, again, is more active than potassium. It increases the reflex excitability of the spinal cord, and produces convulsions ; there is also a paralysing action on the terminations of the motor nerves. The vaso-motor centre is stimu- lated, and the heart accelerated. Owing to the rapidity with which excretion takes place these effects occur only when potassium or ammonium salts are injected into the blood. When ad- ministered by the mouth no specific potassium action is seen, and but little of the special effects of ammonium. Salts of ammonium are more rapidly absorbed than the corresponding sodium and potassium ones. They are excreted as urea, and hence do not render the urine alkaline. (5) Alkaline Hydrates and Carbonates.—1. Potassium and Sodium.—Bearing in mind that potash salts are on the whole more active than those of soda, the actions of these may be dis- cussed together. In strong solutions they have a penetrating solvent action on the tissues, con- verting them into alkali-proteid. The hydrates are, of course, much more powerful than the carbonates, and act as escharotics. It was formerly stated that small doses given early in digestion increased the free acid in the stomach, but this is now considered incorrect; their only action is partly or completely to neutralise the