NEW-BORN INFANT 58 movements the clavicle of the infant may be broken and may wound the pleura, and cases have been reported in which this accident would seem to have occurred ; but with due care the mishap must be very rare. In other cases Marshall Hall's " ready method " of exciting respiration, or Sylvester's plan may be tried {vide article on " Respiration of the Apparently Drowned"). Howard's method is that in which the infant is placed upon the obstetrician's left arm, lying upon its back and with the head hanging slightly downwards ; the operator compresses the thorax and abdomen about twenty times a minute with his right hand, and in this way respiration may be initiated. Another method is to place the asphyxiated infant upon its back upon the palms of the operator's hands held out before him ; the palms are then approximated, and the breech and head of the child brought nearer together, and the chest compressed; and then the hands are again put in the position they originally occupied, and the chest opened up (Byrd's method). Laborde's procedure of rhythmic traction upon the tongue has lately been highly spoken of, more particularly in France; it consists in drawing out the tongue with a pair of forceps about twenty or thirty times a minute. Finally, it has been recom- mended to insufflate air into the lungs by means of a flexible catheter or special tracheal tube (Ribemont-Dessaignes) passed into the larynx. It must not be forgotten that so long as the infant's heart continues to beat there is a chance that resuscitation may be accomplished, and efforts towards this end ought therefoi'e to be continued; marvellous cases of restoration, even some hours after birth, have been put on record. It ought also to be borne in mind that it is necessary to keep the child warm during the efforts at resuscitation, and that even after they have been successful the infant will require watching for some hours. Affections of the Umhilicus.—In the new-boi'n infant the umbilicus is for some days a possible and, indeed, a common avenue of entrance for pathogenic germs, and in consequence it is a usual circumstance to find several of the diseases of the new-born localised in the umbilicus or in the immediately neighbouring parts. Further, recent observations by Audion have shown that the umbilicus itself may remain apparently healthy, and yet its vessels may be pervious, and germs pass through them to parts (e.(/. the heart) distant from the navel, and set up patho- 'logical processes there. So that for many reasons the disorders of the umbilicus are of great importance. Umhilical Ilmnorrh(uie. — Haemorrhage from the umbilicus may take place soon after the birth of the inf;uit; it is then from the stump of the cord, and is due either to slipping of the ligature or to tightness of the binder, and it is generally checked by loosening the binder and applying a new ligature to the cord. The more distinctive hsemorrhage, however, and the more dangerous, is that which occurs some days later at the time when the stump of the cord is separating, or just after it has separated ; this is true omphalorrhagia. It is more frequent in males than in females, and usually appears between the fifth and seventh days after birth. Its pathology is uncertain, but changes in the umbilical vessels have been described (arteritis, phlebitis), and in the blood a diplobacillus, staphylococci, and streptococci have been dis- covered ; it has been ascribed to hfemophilia, syphilis, and to sepsis. The first signs of the hsemorrhage are usually the soaking of the clothes with blood and the anaemic appearance of the infant. There may also be jaundice and purpuric spots. The blood oozes from the umbilical depression, and there may be several clots covering it. Many of the cases perish, and death may occur in three hours, but is more commonly delayed for two or three days. The treatment requires to be energetic in most cases: the umbilicus may be swabbed with styptics, such as perchloride of iron, but usually it will be necessary to apply a mass ligature to the umbilical tissues after having transfixed them with two needles. It has even been recommended that the abdomen be opened, and the umbilical vessels tied separately on the inside; in fact, all sorts of devices have been resorted to, so persistent has the bleeding been. Constitutional treatment, e.g. anti-syphilitic, must not be forgotten. Umbilical Infections.— At the time when the stump of the cord is separating, the umbilicus may become infected by the germs which are to be found in the neighbourhood, and through the lymphatics the infection may pass to any or all the adjacent structures. One of the least marked degrees of this infection is found in ulceration of the cicatrix left by the fall of the cord; the parts do not look unhealthy, but stains of blood and even of pus are to be seen on the binder, and on separating the margins of the innbilicus a small ulcer is discovered, from which the discharge is coming ; the condition requires washing with boric lotion and dusting with iodoform powder, for if left untreated it may lead on to a weakness of the parts and consequent hernia. In other cases the ulcera- tion has led on to the formation of a " fungus " or gramdation (umbilical "polypus") in the position of the cicatrix : this is a myxomatous growth of a pale reddish colour, rounded in shade, of the size of a pea or of a pin-head, which bleeds readily when handled, and which constantly throws off a watery or purulent secretion ; there may be some surrounding ex- coriation, and the little mass may require to be touched with lunar caustic and the um- bilicus treated antiseptically ; when large, the granuloma needs excision after ligature. Some-