247 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF liver we may have acute and chronic catarrh of the ducts, infective and suppurative cholangitis, and inflammation of the interlobular tissue ending in cirrhosis, so in inflammation of the pancreas we may have acute and chronic catarrh, acute, subacute, and chronic pan- creatitis, abscess of the pancreas, and cirrhosis ending in atrophy. The essential and immediate cause of the various forms of pancreatitis is bacterial infec- tion, this having been positively proved both clinically in the human subject and experi- mentally in the lower animals; but as in inflammatory aff'ections of the liver and bile- ducts we look for extrinsic causes, so in pan- creatic diseases we find biliary and pancreatic lithiasis, injury, gastro-duodenal catarrh, ulcer and cancer of the stomach, pylorus, or duodenum, and zymotic diseases, such as typhoid fever and influenza, to be determining factors; though in some cases pancreatitis has come on suddenly in persons in robust health, and the determining cause has been beyond recognition. Though the infection may arise from the blood as in pyaemia, or by direct extension from the neighbouring tissues, as in ulcer of the stomach, yet the usvial channel is through the duct, as in the cases arising from gall-stones in the common duct, and from gasti'o-duodenal catarrh, examples of which I related in my lecture at the London Polyclinic in June 1900, and in my Hunterian Lectures at the R.C.S. in 1904. (See Lancet, March 19 and 26, and April 2, 1904.) The Relation hetiveen Gall-Stones and Pan- creatitis.—The association of the two conditions has been mentioned by several observers; the connection between the two was absolutely forced on my mind by the frequency with which I found inflammatory enlargement of the head of the pancreas when operating for gall-stones in the common duct, my views on this subject, supported by a number of cases observed during several years since 1892, having been brought forward at the Inter- national Congress held in Paris in 1900. In the British Medical Journal, No. 14, 1896, Dr. Kennan described a case of acute pancreatitis ending fatally on the second day in a woman of thirty-eight, and at the post-mortem a large number of gall-stones were found in the common duct, one being partially extruded into the duodenum. Korte {Deutsch. Chir. Stuttgart, 1898) notes that lesions of the pancreas are frequently associated with disease of the bile-ducts. Lancereaux (Traite des maladies du foie et du pancreas, 1898) mentions the possibility that a gall-stone impacted in the diverticulum of Vater may occlude the pancreatic duct, and produce conditions favouring the entrance of organisms into that duct. Dr. Opie, in the American Journal of Medical Science for January 1901, p. 27, relates cases—■ one of Dr. Osier's, and several from various sources—showing the relation between pan- creatic and gall-stone troubles. In many of my cases gall-stones were not found, but only old and firm adhesions with an antecedent history of paroxysmal attacks followed by jaundice, which afforded strong presumptive evidence that cholelithiasis had been present at some time. In some cases the adhesions had resulted from duodenal ulcer, which, with its associated catarrh, is a frequent cause of pan- creatic catarrh. A temporary occlusion of the common duct with the damming back of in- fective secretion or with injury to the ducts may set up a pancreatitis, which may itself then cause compression of the common bile-duct, and so lead to a perpetration of the trouble started in the first instance by an impacted gall-stone. Some years ago I raised the question as to catarrhal and interstitial pancreatitis affording the true key to many cases of acute and chronic catarrhal jaundice, and my operative experience has fully confirmed my original observations on the subject. In future, therefore, it will be necessary to recognise a cholangitic and a pan- creatic form of catarrhal jaundice. Fat necrosis is commonly found in association with acute, rarely with chronic, pancreatitis, and occasionally with some other diseases of the pancreas. The relation between the conditions has given rise to much speculation ; but the facts that fat necroses are not found in all acute pancreatic diseases, and that they have been frequently noted during abdominal operations for other diseases, and in autopsies where there was no suspicion of pancreatitis, appear to show that the condition giving rise to it is not essentially a pancreatitis as suggested by certain authors, though these facts do not disprove the theory, now an established fact, that fat necrosis is essentially due to interference with the discharge of pancreatic secretion, and so to an escape of pancreatic fluid into the tissues, whence it may be taken up by the lymphatics or blood-vessels. Flexner {Contributions to the Science of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Press, Baltimore, 1900) regards the fat necrosis as the effect of the fat-splitting ferment of the pancreatic fluid which has in some way escaped from the duct into the surrounding tissues. It is difficult at first sight to explain the patches of fat necrosis occurring at a dis- tance from the pancreas—for instance, in the pericardium, unless it be by absorption of the ferment, and its diffusion by means of the lymphatics, though it is easy to understand and undoubtedly does explain the disintegration of the fatty tissues immediately surrounding the pancreas, and extending by continuity first to adjoining, and then even to distant, parts in the abdomen and thorax. By fat necrosis is imder- stood a splitting up of the fat into fatty acids and glycerine ; the latter is absorbed, but the former, being insoluble, remain in the cells and