PERITONEUM—TUMOUKS 437 of a pancreatic inflammation, or may be caused by a pre-existing inflammation spreading from the common bile-duct. Carcinoma, in like manner, may obliterate the foramen of Winslow by adhesions starting from the gall-bladder. Multiple cysts filled with serous fluid are sometimes developed in the root of the mesen- tery without invading the pelvis. The parasitic cysts are hydatids. They may be sterile cysts—" acephalo-cyst"—-the ordinary proliferating cyst, or proliferating cysts in which the secondary cysts are undergoing de- generative changes. The following case shows the ordinary symptoms and treatment of a case of peritoneal hydatid. A boy of sixteen was admitted to St. Bartholomew's Hospital for a tumour which occupied the whole of the lower half of the abdomen from the umbilicus to the symphysis pubis in its long diameter, and from crest to crest of the ilium transversely. The tumour was divided sharply into two lobes by a con- striction which was apparently due to the urachus. The swelling was fixed, and the skin was movable freely over it. There was no thrill, but it was dull on percussion. Abdominal exploration showed the tumour to be a sterile hydatid cyst which grew from the left side of the pelvis, and was adherent to the omentum, intestines, and bladder. As it was impossible to separate the external or adventitious cyst from these adhesions the tumour was opened, the fluid was allowed to escape, and the whole of the endocyst was removed. The edges of the adventitious cyst were then stitched to the abdominal walls, excluding the skin, a drainage- tube was inserted to the bottom of the cyst, and the skin was closed over the wound. The tube was allowed to remain from the 11th to the 21st September, when it was removed, and the patient was discharged with the wound soundly healed on October 8. The ectocyst may often be closed at once if the surgeon is sure of his asepsis, and the abdominal wound will then heal by first intention. Cysts due to foetal remains are usually found in the tissue between the rectum and coccyx. In the simplest form they are single or multiple cysts lined with cylindrical ciliated epithelium and containing a clear serous fluid. An instance of such a tumour was recently vmder observa- tion at the Victoria Hospital for Children, in a child aged two months, who was suff'ering from retention of urine and obstruction of the bowels. A bimaniial examination through the rectum and abdomen revealed a tense and elastic swelling upon the right side of the pelvis reaching from the pubes to the umbilicus. The swelling was fixed and pyriform in shape, the upper broad end being rounded and sharply defined. The abdomen was opened in the middle line, but the tumour was too deeply seated and firmly fixed to allow of its removal. The child died two days after the operation, and the kidneys were then seen to be in a condition of hydronephrosis, the ureters were dilated, and the bladder thick- ened from the pressure exercised by the swelling. The rectum was normal for an inch above the anus, but immediately beyond this point a large oval swelling projected into the lumen without causing any gross lesion. The uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes were normal. The tumour was a simple, thick-walled sac, filled with clear fluid, and there is little doubt that the child would have lived if I had incised the swelling and let out the contents. The specimen is in the museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Z)er»ioic?s are sometimes intraperitoneal, though they are more often found in the presacral region. The intraperitoneal dermoids may occur as mul- tiple tumours of small size attached to the peritoneum, hanging from the under-surface of the liver, or embedded in adhesions between the coils of intestine. The presacral dermoids are usually found in women, probably because their pelvic organs are more often and more carefully examined than those of men. A few months ago I saw one in an art student, aged twenty-one, in whom it would probably have remained undetected if he had not suff"ered from an attack of appendi- citis which led to a rectal examination. He was then found to have an elastic tumour as large as a hen's egg in the tissue behind the centre of the posterior wall of the rectum, just above the internal sphincter. The swelling was tender, and for a time it was thought to be inflammatory in origin and connected with the appendicular trouble from which he was suffering. The patient recovered in due course from the attack of appendicitis, but the tumour remained unchanged, and an exploration was carried out on the assumption that it was a chronic abscess which might end in a fistula. The swelling was incised through the ischio-rectal fossa, and its contents immediately showed it to be a dermoid cyst. The wound was therefore cleansed and closed, as it was placed inconveniently for the larger operation which had now become neces- sary. The patient was then turned on his side, the coccyx was removed, and the entire cyst was dissected out. The man recovered without delay, as the wound healed by first intention. Noivi of the peritoneum are rare, but a case is recorded by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane in a child aged seven years. The tumour had been noticed at birth, and had increased in size until it formed a prominent swelling occupying the right side of the abdomen. It extended from near the middle line in front to the loin behind, and from the margin of the thorax above to the iliac crest. The abdominal wall seemed to be involved, and fluctuation was felt over the most prominent portions. In the course of a success- ful excision of the growth several large cysts, some nearly as big as an orange and many