412 PERINEUM Dilatation of Perineum); Labour, Management OF {Second Stage, Preservation of the Perineum); Labour, Precipitate {Rupture of Perineum); Labour, Post-partum Hemorrhage {Primary, Traumxitic Haemorrhage) ; Labour, Injuries to THE Generative Organs {Pelvic Floor Lacera- tions) ; Labour, Obstetric Operations {Forceps, Indications); Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Symptoms, Pain in Perineum); Rectum, Diseases op the {Stricture, Symptoms); Uterus, Dis- placements OP THE {Prolapse, Causes, Operative Treatment) ; Vulva, Diseases of the {Injuries, Inflammation, etc.). Perineurium.—The connective tissue sheath of a primary bundle of nerve fibres; inflammation of this structure is termed peri- neuritis. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, Structure). Perl n UCiea.r.—Surrounding the nucleus, e.g. the artificially produced perinuclear baso- philic granules of leucocytes erroneously re- garded by Neusser as pathognomonic of gout. Periocular.—Surrounding the eyeball, e.g. the space in the orbit between the eyeball and the osseous walls. Period.—The space of time during which a disease runs its course or passes through an active phase {e.g. intermittent fever), or the time occupied by the performance of a func- tion {e.g. the monthly periods or menstruation). See Menstruation and its Disorders {Ter- minology). Periodicity. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Periodic Mania). Periodontitis. See Teeth {Diseases of Peridental Membrane). PeriodOSCOpe. — A calendar for de- termining the probable date of the onset of labour ; an obstetric clock. Perionycllia..—Inflammation round the nails. See Impetigo (Varieties, Impetigo Con- tagiosa) ; Nails, Affections of {Syphilis). Perioophoritis.—Inflammation of the peritoneum in the neighbourhood of the ovary. Periosteal. See Periosteum.—In com- pound words periosteo- signifies relating to the periosteum, or periosteal. Periosteum. — The fibrous, vascular membrane which covers the bones (except in their cartilaginous part). See Bone, Diseases 0¥ {Periostitis, Pyogenic, Tuberculous,Syphilitic); Orbit, Diseases of {Inflammation of the Peri- osteum) ; Physiology, Tissues {Bone, Develop- ment and Structure); Scurvy, Infantile {Morbid Anatomy); Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones, Peri- ostitis) ; Teeth {Oral Sepsis, Results); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce). Periostitis.—Inflammation of the peri- osteum. See Periosteum. Peripheral.—Pertaining to, situated in, or characteristic of the periphery or circum- ference or exterior ; e.g. peripheral neuritis {q.v.), 23eripheral end-organs, etc. See Convulsions, Infantile (Causes, Peripheral, Nerve Irritation^; Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms, Nervous System, Peripheral Neuritis) : Lung, Tuberculosis op {Complications, Nervous); Nerves, Peripheral ; Osteo-Arthropathies {Changes in Peripheral Neuritis); Typhoid Fever {Complications, Ne7-vous System); Ulcers and Ulceration (Ulcers due to Interference with Nerve-Supply); Urination, Disorders of {Enuresis, Causes). Periphlebitis. — Inflammation of the tissues surrounding a vein. See Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Pycemia); Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis). Periplast.—The body of a cell as dis- tinguished from the nucleus and the cell-wall. Periproctitis. — Inflammation of the cellular tissue surrounding the rectum. Periprostatitis. See Prostate Gland {Inflammation around the Prostate). Perisalping'itiS.—Inflammation of the peritoneal covering of the Fallopian tube. See Fallopian Tubes {Inflammation, Varieties). Peristalsis.—-The vermicular movement of the intestine, of the Fallopian tubes, and of other hollow organs, by which their contents are propelled towards the exit. See Digestion and Metabolism {Intestinal Movements); Physi- ology, Food and Digestion {Movements of the Intestine); Physiology, Excretion {Micturition, Mechanism of); Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases OF {Special Symptomatology of Gastric Neuroses, Reverse Peristalsis). Perisystole.—The short interval in the heart's action between systole and diastole ; it becomes apparent when the heart is failing. Perithecium. — The flask-shaped re- ceptacle for the fructification of some fungi. See Micro-Organisms {Hyphomycetes). Perithelioma.—A tumour originating in the perithelium (layer of cells surrounding- capillaries and small vessels) of a vessel. Peritomy. — Circumcision, e.g. of the cornea. See Sclerotic, Diseases of {Sclerotitis, Treatment). Peritoneal or Peritoneo-. See Peritoneum.