NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 116 may fail to be so. I have not found trans- illumination of any material assistance on this point; the density of the opacity does not guide us as to the exact condition of the lining mem- brane. In uncomplicated antral cases, therefore, if there is no reason to believe that any of the other sinuses on the same side of the nose are affected, the irrigation treatment should be given a fair trial. If, however, associated ethmoidal or frontal sinus suppuration exist, more radical methods should be resorted to from the first. A number of satisfactory re- sults will encourage the surgeon to advocate treatment by lavage. The opei-ation appeals to the patient, to whom, however, the possibility of failure and the necessity for further treat- ment should be explained. It can be readily performed under nitrous oxide anaesthesia, and it does not confine the patient to the house, while the after-treatment can be carried out quite independently of the medical attendant. At the same time, in a fair proportion of cases this method proves a failure, and after a tire- some course of syringing, and perhaps at con- siderable inconvenience to himself, the patient must submit to the radical operation. (i.) Treatment by Lavage.—In all cases in which nasal polypi and hypertrophies are present they must, in the first instance, be removed, so that there may be no interference with the free escape of the lotion through the natural antral orifice. For purposes of irriga- tion two routes are open to us, the nasal and the buccal. It is hardly necessary to do more than merely refer to irrigation through the nose. The natural orifice of the antrum may be at once dismissed, as it is impracticable for the patient and usually so for the surgeon. An opening made through the outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose below the anterior end of the inferior turbinated bone finds favour with some who have successfully practised it. It certainly has the advantage of not being connected with a septic cavity like the mouth; on the other hand, the patient often has a difficulty in finding the opening, which further has a tendency to rapidly close. It may be mentioned in passing that a cure has, in one or two cases, been reported following upon a single puncture of the nasal wall and irrigation of the cavity. The Alveolay- Opening.—This certainly forms the most convenient route, and the one most fre- quently selected. By adopting this method two important requirements are at once met, namely, the removal of a diseased tooth — the possible causative factor—and the opening of the cavity at its most dependent part (Fig. 1). The dis- advantage lies in establishing a communication with the mouth ; this may be, however, largely counterbalanced by inserting a solid plug into the aperture instead of the open drainage tube formerly employed. The operation can be performed under nitrous oxide gas, bromide of ethyl, or chloroform anaesthesia. The first or second molar tooth, if diseased, should be extracted, the socket pierced by one of the numerous forms of antral perforator, and the cavity entered. It is well to emphasise the fact that too small a hole must not be made through the alveolus. The teeth underlying the affected antrum should be thoroughly inspected, and where disease is detected either careful stopping or removal should be insisted upon, as it is foolish to attempt treatment of the sinus while carious teeth still remain in the jaw. Should a suit- able gap exist between sound teeth it may be utilised for a similar purpose. The cavity is next washed out with a warm sterilised or weak antiseptic solution, and a solid obturator is prepared for insertion. As our primary object is rather to maintain the opening thus made, so that syringing may be regularly carried out, and not to establish a dependent drain, it is better to employ a solid plug instead of an open drainage tube. In the latter case the patient is annoyed with the dribbling of pus into the mouth, while there is always an open track for fresh infection from that source, and for the introduction of food particles. To obviate this latter risk, some operators who use the open drain recommend plugging of the tube during meals. If, how- ever, the sinus be systematically syringed, any disadvantage which might accrue from a temporary accumulation of pus within it, is certainly less than the annoyance and risk of a tube which is always open. An obturator made of vulcanite, caoutchouc, or silver gilt proves very serviceable ; the proper length of the plug is ascertained by measuring with a probe bent at its point the depth of the track which has been made in the alveolus. Obviously it is very necessary to have this securely fastened in position, so that it may neither slip into the cavity nor drop into the mouth. Various methods are employed for this purpose. If the patient already wear a dental plate the plug may be attached to it, the wound in the alveolus being temporarily plugged with gauze while this is being prepared. Its attachment may be made to a neighbouring tooth by some form of ring, or in the absence of teeth a plate should be moulded to the jaw. Many of these points are best attended to by the dentist. If all the teeth are present and perfectly sound— a state of things not very frequently met with in these cases—a healthy tooth should not be sacrificed. The sinus may then be opened through the canine fossa, care being taken after perforating the bone to securely fix the plug in that opening. If, however, this method has to be adopted, I am in favour of making a fairly large opening in that fossa, inspecting the in- terior through it, curetting the lining mem-