286 PARALYSIS a segmental distribution, but is rather of a peripheral type, the longest neurons being- affected both in the arms and legs. Sensation to all forms of impressions may now be gradu- ally lost to a variable height on the trunk, and the distribution of the anaesthesia becomes segmental in character. A girdle sensation in the mid-dorsal region is frequently complained of, and there may be severe intercostal pain, which may in rare cases be accompanied by herpes zoster and even by subcutaneous hsemorrhages in the distribution of a nerve root. During this stage the nutrition of the patient remains fairly good; the muscles do not waste to a marked degree, they retain their myotatic irritability, and they react normally to faradism and galvanism. Irregular rises of temperature frequently occur, and the patients are liable to attacks of diarrhoea. The knee-jerks are exaggerated, ankle clonus is present, the plantars give an extensor response, and all the superficial reflexes remain active in spite of the anaesthesia and analgesia. The sphincters are often unaffected. Exceptional symptoms that occur during this stage are weakness of one or other muscle of the eye, slight nystag- mus, and retinal htemorrhages; while unilatei-al paresis of one vocal cord has once been recorded. The mode of onset of the third stage is one of the most striking features of this disease: the spasticity formerly present is rapidly re- placed by flaccidity, a change that may occur in a few hours or a few days. The temperature always rises at the com- mencement of this stage, but it subsides when the flaccidity becomes fully established. The inability to perceive all forms of sensory im- pressions over the lower limbs and trunk now becomes absolute, and there is complete in- continence of urine and faeces. The knee-jerks are rapidly abolished, ankle clonus and patellar clonus disappear. The plantar reflex, however, still maintains its extensor character, and this, in association with the absent knee-jerk and flaccid paralysis, constitutes one of the most diagnostic featiu-es of the disease. The other superficial reflexes persist and are active. (Edema of the legs and trunk often occurs at this period. The muscles now rapidly waste, and if this stage is prolonged the wasting becomes extreme in the lower extremities, and the upper extremities become similarly affected at a later period. The muscles rapidly lose their faradic excita- bility, and the galvanic excitability is reduced, but there is no polar change such as is seen in complete reaction of degeneration. Delirium at night is common during the third stage, and the patient often has varied delusions, while convulsive attacks, which give rise to fine clonic movements, but without loss of conscious- ness, have been observed in some cases. The patient's condition at this stage is one of extreme asthenia. Cystitis frequently occurs, and bedsores have formed in nearly every case. Paralysis of the abdominal and lower intercostal muscles occurs during this stage, and the diaphragm becomes weak, and finally ceases to act. Death may then result from failure of respiration, or there may be sudden syncope. It may, however, happen that the patient lingers on in a condition of profound anaemia and sepsis, and dies of asthenia. Although the course of this disease, as above depicted, is in the main correct, yet there are some cases which do not follow such a definite course, and the lower extremities do not pass into the final flaccid stage, but remain rigid in a position of extreme flexion. Another class of case, again, is that in which the nervous symptoms manifest themselves in the course of severe anaemia which may have persisted with remissions for three to four years. In these cases it not infrequently happens that the final flaccid stage is never reached, the patients dying while the limbs are still spastic, and the impairment of sensations may be still limited to the periphery of the limbs, or some- times loss of the sense of position is the only sensory defect present. The condition of the blood from these cases varies considerably : in many of them it has the characters of a secondary anaemia; in other cases, however, the blood shows the characters which are usually associated with pernicious anaemia, for there are microcytes, macrocytes, nucleated and vacuolated red cells, and the percentage of haemoglobin is relatively high. Mo7-bid Anato7ny.—The condition of the body at the time of death depends upon the length of the third stage of the disease, for when this has been prolonged the body is usually extremely emaciated; when, however, death has occurred earlier the body is often fat. No naked-eye changes are visible in the brain or external surface of the spinal cord, nor in the membranes, but on section of the spinal cord the grey areas of degeneration in the posterior and antero-lateral tracts are plainly visible. The liver, which is usually enlarged, sometimes gives the free iron reaction, the kidneys not infrequently show a condition of septic infarcts or pyonephrosis secondary to the infection of the bladder, and the condition of the bone marrow varies considerably, in some cases being red and almost diffluent, while in others it is normal in appeai'ance. The morbid changes in the spinal cord are among the most constant features of the disease, varying only in degree with its duration. The stress of the disease falls upon the niid- dorsal region of the cord, and on examining sections from this level marked destruction of