NEURASTHENIA 42 neurasthenia in a person of bad nervous in- heritance can by any method be permanently lifted out of the neurasthenic plane. The neurasthenia which results from sunstroke generally lasts a long time, but under good con- ditions and good treatment it tends in the end to disappear. Traumatic neurasthenia shows many grades of severity, these grades being probably the resultant in each case of the immediate effect of the injury to the nerve- cells and the inherited power of repair in the individual. It is worth noticing, with regard to traumatic neurasthenia from railway acci- dents, that numerous as are the cases due to this cause, they are still probably only a small minority compared with the very large number of persons who go through similar accidents without any serious nervous injury. This would suggest that most of those who suffer much from the effect of fright or severe jar, apart from actual injury, are not people of good nervous inheritance. It may be that they are more readily injured than their companions, because they are of less stable organisation. In traumatic neurasthenia the prognosis is greatly influenced by the age of the patient, the young recovering much more quickly than the old. In non-traumatic neurasthenia, on the other hand, the prognosis is not specially good in the young, as it almost always implies a bad nervous inheritance. The prognosis of each case is also much influenced by the power of the patient to com- mand the best methods of cure. A great many people are practically too poor to be cured, or even to be materially helped by treatment, because the only treatment that will do them good is costly and extends over a long time. A sanatorium, where the Weir-Mitchell method, with all its expensive adjuncts, could be applied for three guineas a week would not be remuner- ative to its proprietor, and even such a one would be too dear for a large number of the persons who would be the better for the treat- ment. Even prolonged rest and extra feeding at home are impossible to most people who work for their living. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. — Very little is known or likely to be known as to the changes or processes that underlie imperfect nutrition or repair in the ultimate units of the nervous system. Dr. Clifford AUbutt, who has written much that is wise and suggestive about neurasthenia, says on this point:— " If it be true that in many such persons the nervous organs seem to have fallen short in capacity, it is no less true that a mechanical cause can induce the same phenomena in persons originally of full nervous capacity. Perhaps in persons originally endowed with ample nervous volume a dislocation of neurons, a sluggishness of the ancillary processes of these systems, or some such retrogressive state of nutrition, as Hodge and others have demonstrated in the nerve-cells of over-worked wasps, may be equivalent to an original defect of capacity. On the other hand, as rest, massage, and high feeding cure a large number of patients, even in cases of traumatic origin, it would seem as if the pathological condition were not a mere solution of continuity, or if so, that the feeding and the other means promote a growing up of the gaps. The apathy induced by the Weir- Mitchell method may give the parts the quiescence they require for assimilation and re- adaptation. But this is mere speculation. The attribution of abnormal irritability or 'over- excitability' to nervous structure in disease is absurd. No nervous matter was ever too ex- citable ; to be excitable is its business ; in ' over- irritability ' a race-horse differs from a jackass. The more excitable our nerves the quicker and higher our life. Of nervous matter instability is the peculiar virtue ; the fault in neurasthenia is that the vibrations of the sense organs, in- stead of being absorbed into the larger harmonies of the nervous system, take to ' short circuit- ing,' whereby their energy is wastefuUy dis- sipated. In many of the inherited cases I suspect that the nervous centres, however high and various in quality and complexity, are deficient in volume or in blood-supply. Bodilj', mental, or emotional strain may produce neur- asthenia with the suddenness of a traumatic cause; young persons fagged by long mental application, by prolonged muscular exertion, performed for a time perhaps without a sense of undue fatigue, or again by the continual harass of ill-fortune, may show no patent effect till the condition reveals itself all at once. . . . Young women are much more prone than young men to break down in this way, and almost without warning ; many women never get over a long and ambitious course of study, or a long course of athletic exercises. After some con- siderable duration of stress, borne for a time with apparent ease, the breakdown may occur very suddenly, and resist the remedial power of Nature or of the physician. . . . An intimate friend of my own tells me that some twelve years ago he was persuaded when he had gone out of training to take a vacant place in his college boat in the May races. Each day's race was a hard one, and the stress so told on him that he has never been able to withstand any hard mental or bodily work since that time, though his general health is excellent. Some- times I am tempted to exaggerate this peril when I remember the many women, and not a few men, who, having taken high honours at the universities or elsewhere, out of their own circle are never heard of again. . . . Happily it is true, on the whole, that to cultivate the highest powers of the body and mind is to strengthen self-control and that self-conscious inhibition which govern us in our habits of life ;