PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 408 pericardium is attributed to other causes. He recognises four groups of tubercular peri- carditis :— 1. When the condition is latent, and the dis- ease is only discovered post-mortem in persons who have died from pulmonary tuberculosis or other causes. 2. Cases in which the symptoms are those of cardiac embarrassment due to adherent peri- cardium from chronic tubercular pericarditis. 3. Cases of acute pericarditis attended by effusion, serous, hsemorrhagic, or purulent in character, in which there may be no suspicion of the tubercular origin of the trouble. 4. A group where the clinical picture is that of acute general tuberculosis. (See American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January 1893.) Adherent Pericardium By the term " adherent pericardium " is im- plied the presence of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium as a result of antecedent pericarditis. Morbid Anatomy. — The adhesions may be limited to fibrous bands stretching across the pericardial sac at one or more points, or they may be universal, so that the pericardial cavity is entirely obliterated. In the case of recent adhesions, or of lymph undergoing or- ganisation into fibrous tissue, the two layers of pericardium can be separated, and their surface will present a rough honeycomb appearance; but if the adhesions are of old standing they are tough and fibrous, and the pericardium cannot be stripped from the heart without tear- ing its muscular substance. Adhesions may also exist between the pericardium and chest- wall, or adjoining pleura and lung, as a result of so-called mediastino-pericarditis. {See article on " Mediastinum," vol. vi. p. 231.) In association with adherent pericardium there is commonly some fibrous change in the heart-walls due to replacement of fibrovis tissue of muscle fibres destroyed by previous inflammation. Physical Signs.—The physical signs differ according as the adhesions exist only between the two layers of pericardium, or between this and the chest-wall or adjoining pleura as well. In the latter case they are more numerous and distinctive, and those that may be present are the following :—■ Systolic depression of one or more intercostal spaces to the left of the sternum, or of the lower end of the sternum itself and the adjoin- ing costal cartilages, which may be caused by the heart dragging on them at each systole through the pericardial adhesions. Systolic re- cession of spaces alone is, however, not a trust- worthy indication, as it may be due to atmo- spheric pressure when the heart is hypertrophied and the patient is a child with yielding chest- walls. Care should be taken not to mistake auricular pulsation, sometimes seen in the left intercostal spaces, for systolic retraction. Systolic retraction of the lower portions of the posterior or lateral walls of the thorax may indicate the existence of an adherent peri- cardium when the heart is enlarged, and the pericardium is adherent to the chest-wall as well as to the heart. The explanation of such retraction seems to be that the portion of the diaphragm to which the pericardium is adherent is dragged upwards at each systole of the heart, so that the points of attachment of the digita- tions of the diaphragm to the lower ribs and costal cartilages are dragged inwards and retracted. Fixation of the apex beat, so that it does not alter its position in respiration or in change of posture, is an inportant sign when present. Systolic recession over the site of the apex beat, or a diastolic shock on palpation over this area, points to the presence of pericardial ad- hesions between the apex of the heart and the chest-wall. Impeded descent of the diaphragm in inspira- tion, as shown by deficient movement of the epigastric region, may indicate the presence of abnormal adhesions between the heart and diaphragm, and is more marked if there are adhesions between the chest-wall and diaphragm in addition. The area of cardiac dnlness will be abnormally large and will remain unchanged in respiration when there are extensive adhesions between the pericardium and the chest-wall, as the thin layer of lung tissue normally overlapping the base of the heart will be pushed aside, or more probably be involved in the adhesions and collapse. Enlargement of the Heart.—It is common, but by no means constant, to find the heart considerably enlarged when the pericardium is considerably adherent, even in the absence of valvular lesion or other obvious cause to account for it. It seems probable that such enlargement may be due in some measure to pericardial adhesions, as follows:— The heart becomes dilated during an attack of pericarditis, and the muscular fibres are also weakened by inflamma- tion. Before these recover and the heart con- tracts again to its normal size, the pericardium becomes adherent and fixes it in a condition of dilatation. Subsequently the heart undergoes some hypertrophy. Diastolic collapse of cervical veins, held by Friedreich to be of diagnostic value when ac- companied by systolic retraction of spaces, is seldom seen. Symptoms.—These are not in themselves characteristic, but are such as may arise from embarrassment of the heart, especially of the right ventricle, shortness of breath, palpitation, prfECordial oppression, ascites, and dropsy. Diagnosis.—The physical signs and symptoms,