OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 151 the superior rectus and the inferior oblique agree in moving the eye upwards, but the former turns the cornea as a whole, and its upper part, inwards, while the latter has precisely contrary actions. It will further be noted that there exists a difference in regard even to that function which they perform in common; thus, taking the same two muscles, the superior rectus acts best as an elevator when the eye is turned outwards, the inferior oblique when the eye is looking inwards (towards the nose). The importance of this fact will be seen presently. We are in a position now, having refreshed our memory in regard to the principal function of each muscle, to approach the question of the precise muscle involved in any case of binocular diplopia. (a) It is clear, in the first place, that each muscle having a principal action of its own, and in the case of all but two, also subsidiary actions, it will be in the line of that principal action that the failure will become manifest. Thus if the chief function of a muscle be to move the cornea downwards, double vision will become manifest, or most manifest, when an attempt is made to look downwards; and further, if the function of that muscle is best exercised when the eye is at the same time looking inwards, it will be in that attitude that the double vision will be most obvious of all— the images will there be farther apart. There is no muscle whose function can be taken up and discharged by any other or combination of others; if the external rectus be paralysed, no doubt there are other two muscles ^the obliques) which move the cornea outwards, but they are quite incapable of taking up the role of the external rectus—and so with all the others. We come to this, then, that it is in the direction in which a muscle has normally its maximum efficacy that its failure to act comes to be most evident. It must not, however, be supposed that in no other dii'ections can double vision be demonstrated, but the patient is, generally speaking, not conscious of it; though the fact that the position of the eye is incorrect can, with proper means, be demonstrated also. In paralysis of the external rectus, to return to this as an example, double vision is complained of upon looking outwards; but if we deprive the patient of any power to fuse images which are near together by employing a vertical prism to separate them vertically, lateral separation of the images, due to inefficiency in the active or in the controlling power of the external rectus, becomes evident over the whole field. The first point in proceeding to the discovery of the actual muscle involved is to ascertain in what chief direction diplopia is complained of. It is a muscle whose duty is to move the eye in that direction which is paralysed. The patient says he sees double on looking downwards ; the immediate and perfectly cor- rect conclusion is that the muscle paralysed is one whose (abrogated) function it is to turn the cornea downwards. And, further, the vertical separation of the two images will be greater either to the left hand or to the right, the eye being at the same time in an attitude of looking down, according as the muscle involved is facilitated in its action under ordinary conditions by the eye being at the same moment turned to left or to right. The first rule, then, is that double vision is to be found in one or other of the great directions, upwards, downwards, to right or to left of the patient, and the muscle paralysed is one of those whose function it is to move the eye in that direction. (b) As one moves the test object, which for convenience sake is often a lighted candle, farther and farther in the direction in which double vision exists (say, downwards), the call upon the enfeebled muscle increasing, and its inability to meet the demand becoming more obvious, the separation of the two images, the false and the true, becomes ever wider and wider; it is easy to decide which image belongs to which eye by means of a coloured glass held before one eye, or by suddenly interposing a screen before one eye, and causing the patient to say which image is coloured or which has disappeared ; but that -is not enough, we require to know which is the false image—which, that is, belongs to the misdirected eye. The answer to this question, which is one that gives much trouble to the beginner, is simply that the image which is farthest in the direction in which double vision exists is the false image. If the diplopia is manifest below, the lower image is the false, belonging to the paralysed eye; if the diplopia is greatest to the left-hand side, that image most to the left is the false, and so on. This gives the answer to the second question, namely, which is the affected eye 1 (c) The third question, which muscle of that eye is paralysed"? is answered by the observa- tion that the false image is deviated exactly in the direction of action of the paralysed muscle. Thus, to take the three directions of error, if the false image is above the true, the muscle paralysed is an elevator (and similarly with the depressors); if the images are crossed, it is an inward mover which is paralysed (and similarly with simple or homonymous diplopia); and if the upper end of the false image is rotated to the right, the paralysed muscle has it as one of its functions to rotate the globe about a sagittal axis so that the upper part of the cornea shall be rotated to the right (and similarly with the left rotation). The writer ventures to think that this method is the simplest and most " physiological" that can well be employed, since it depends entirely upon the knowledge of the normal action of