ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 181 days, the skin of the lids becomes dusky and thinned, and pns makes its way to the surface ; the abscess, may, however, open through the conjunctiva. The discharge is followed by relief of the subjective symptoms, and by diminution in the tension and duskiness of the lids, and the swelling of the conjunctiva. In subacute or chronic cases the signs and symptoms are all less severe, and pus is longer in making its way to the surface. The causes of orbital cellulitis are numerous. It is frequently traumatic, resulting from a septic penetrating wound, with or without the retention of a foreign body in the orbit. It occasionally follows fracture of bones of the orbital walls. Of non-traumatic causes the most common are extension of inflammation from the bony walls of the orbit, from neigh- bouring sinuses {e.g. the frontal sinus), from the skin in facial erysipelas, or from the eyeball in panophthalmitis. Less frequently cellulitis arises by the spread of inflammation from the superior maxilla in diseased conditions of the teeth, from the pharynx and nose and nasal duct, and by septic thrombosis in pysemic and septicEemic states. Treatment.—This will vary somewhat accord- ing to the severity of the case. In all instances, however, the evacuation of an abscess cavity as soon as formed is imperative. If the case be acute, with much swelling and tension of lids and protrusion of globe, an incision should be made before the abscess points. In slighter cases local depletion by leeches and repeated hot compresses may be employed at first, and the abscess opened as soon as its existence can be definitely determined. Unless the abscess be pointing, the incision should be made at the site of greatest tension, but preferably towards one end of the eyelid. A narrow knife should be entered deeply into the orbit, parallel to the nearest wall, carefully avoiding the eyeball and other important structures. The external opening should be large. The abscess being evacuated, careful examination with the probe should be made to ascertain the site and size of the cavity, and whether it leads to carious bone, or is in communication with adjoining- sinuses. Thorough irrigation of the abscess cavity should be employed, a drainage tube inserted, and warm dressings applied. In cases of orbital cellulitis from facial erysipelas, early and free incisions should be made to prevent extensive sloughing of the eyelids. When panophthalmitis occurs, the eyeball should be in- cised, and the contents evacuated. The shrunken globe should be removed at a later date. The general treatment in cases of orbital cellulitis must be governed by the condition of the patient. In debilitated patients stimulants and good feeding are necessary. If the pain is severe, opiates should be administered : quinine is a useful drug in most cases. Results of Orbital Cellulitis.—In mild forms no permanent damage may ensue. In severe cases the orbital tissues may become adherent and remain bound by cicatricial bands, so that the movements of the globe are much impaired. Partial or complete loss of sight from optic nerve atrophy is not uncommon, and is an almost constant result of the cellulitis accom- panying facial erysipelas. Blindness may also be caused by damage to or destruction of the cornea. Fatal results occasionally accrue from extension of inflammation to the meninges, or by phlebitis of the orbital veins spreading to the cavernous sinus. Thrombosis of the Cavernous Sinus.—This is not primarily a disease of the orbit, but as in some respects it closely resembles orbital cellulitis, a brief description seems desirable. Thrombosis of the cavernous sinus necessarily leads to obstruction in the orbital veins, and it is probable that in cases in Avhich the symptoms most nearly approach those of orbital cellulitis, phlebitis of these veins has occurred. The usual symptoms in this affection are a varying degree of exophthalmos, with limitation of ocular move- ments, oedema of the eyelids and conjunctiva, and pain, which is often very severe. There may be, as later developments, paralysis of ocular muscles, and anaesthesia over the area of distribution of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, from pressure on the nerve-trunks in the sinus. Vision is usually impaired, and the retinal veins are found greatly distended. Oedema of the skin in the mastoid region is present in many cases. If the thrombosis is septic, abscesses may form in the eyelids or orbital tissues. In many cases the diseased process extends from one cavernous sinus to that of the opposite side, by way of the circular sinus, and symptoms then develop in the second orbit. The most common cause of thrombosis is inflammation of the sinus, due either to infection from some septic focus or to a general pysemic condition, or to extension of inflammation to the sinus from carious bone in the vicinity, or from the ear in otitis media. Less common causes are fractures of the base of the skull, and conditions of health which encourage spon- taneous clotting, such as chronic phthisis and marasmus. The prognosis is very unfavourable. Most cases terminate fatally, usually in coma. The dui-ation varies from twenty-four hours to two or three weeks, but in one instance three months and a half elapsed between the onset of ocular symptoms and death. The serious constitutional disturbance, the association of cerebral symptoms, the oedema in the mastoid region, and the frequent involve- ment of the second orbit, are important signs in the diagnosis of this disease from orbital cellulitis. Paralysis of ocular nerves, both