PEARL 370 Pe£irl.—In pathology, the term pearl is applied to concentric masses of epithelial cells, and, in pharmacy, to the small glass capsules containing liquid volatile drugs such as amyl nitrite ; " pearly tumours " are cholesteatomata. Pea,S. See Physiology, Food and Di- gestion (Vegetable Food-Stuffs, Legtimens). Peat Baths. See Balneology {Peat and Mud Baths). Pebrine.—An epidemic disease affecting silkworms. Pecquet'S Duct.—The thoracic duct; the receptaculum chyli is sometimes called the reservoir of Pecquet, so named after Joannes Pecquet (born 1622, died 1674). Pectineus Muscle. See Spine, Sur GiCAL Affections of {Injuries of Lumbar Plexus). Pectoral.—Relating to the chest (Lat. pectus, chest). PectoraliS Muscle. See Muscles, Diseases of {Congenital Absence); Muscles, Traumatic Affections of {Rupture). Pectoriloquy.—The distinct transmis- sion of speech sounds to the ear of the examiner who is listening with stethoscope applied to the chest wall, e.g. over pulmonary cavities or areas of condensation (in proximity to a large bronchus). See Lung, Tuberculosis of {Physi- cal Signs, Vomica Formation); Pneumonia, Clinical {Physical Signs, Red Hepatisation). Pederasty.—A form of unnatural sexual connection {per anum), sodomy (Gr. Trats, a boy, ipaa-T^^, lover). Pediatrics.—The study of the diseases of children. See Children and cross-references ; Infancy' and Infant and cross-references; New- born Infant ; etc. Pedicle.—A small stalk or narrow neck of connection, e.g. the attachment of a tumour; a peduncle. See Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumoihrs, Pedicle); Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Ovarian and Uterine Tumours, Tivisting of Peduncle); Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours OF {Polypi). PediCUlophobia.—A morbid dread of lice {pediculi). Pediculosis. Introductory ..... 370 Classification— Pediculosis Capitis . . .371 Pediculosis Corporis . . .372 „ Pubis .... 373 The terms pediculosis and phthiriasis are now used in a general way for the symptoms pro- duced by lice, whether of head, body, or pubes, although when employed without qualification they are taken as applying to the body-louse. Manner of Feeding. — There has been a good deal of discussion as to the manner in which the louse attacks the skin. Schmarda, Kaposi, and others hold that the insect first bites with its mandibles and then sucks up the blood. Schi0dte, a Danish naturalist, who investigated the matter, says it has no mandibles or other means of biting, but only a sucking apparatus which it protrudes at pleasure. On this point modern observers have been anticipated by Swammerdam and Leeuwenhoek, who worked out the insect's anatomy. According to Leeu- wenhoek, whose plates are worth looking at, the body-louse first protrudes a sheath (proboscis or haustellum) continuous with the gullet. This sheath is provided with a "piercer," which is introduced between the epidermic scales to puncture a blood-vessel lying underneath. The more readily to do this the louse places itself on its head. Blood passes with a swift motion into the body, where it is incessantly driven backwards and forwards, as any one will have observed who has examined a pediculus cor- poris gorged with blood after a meal. Leeuwen- hoek points out that these rapid movements prevent the coagulation of the blood, an occur- rence which would be fatal to the animal. Swammerdam and Schi0dte state that the louse attacks a sweat-pore. Schi0dte showed that the haustellum was provided with four short threads, which by approximation formed the piercing apparatus. In his figure red blood cor- puscles are represented in situ in the haustellum. Classification. — Zoologically lice are insects (six legs), and classed among the Hemiptera, sub-order Anoplura (Aptera). According to M'Lachlan, some writers do not consider them true insects. They do not undergo metamor- phosis, but develop directly from the ovum or nit. This absence of metamorphosis, I think, can be accounted for by the parasitic life of the animal on the surface of the skin. To survive, it is important it should reproduce qviickly and in numbers, so that the intermediate stages have been in the long run missed out. Its life on man, too, makes it independent of seasons and difficulties as to food-supply. Variation in Colour.—It is said that lice vary in colour according to the host:—Grey in Europeans, black in negroes, yellowish-brown in the Chinese, and white in Esquimaux. A. Murray of Edinburgh, who examined lice col- lected in various countries from the different races of man, found they differed not only in colour, but also in the structure of the claws and limbs. Possibly this variation in hue is an instance of protective coloration. Three kinds of pediculi are recognised as parasitic on man. They are named after the part of the body they infest, viz. :—Pediculus