244 PANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY by the diabetic animal, after a diet rich in polysaccharides of glucose, does not exactly correspond to the quantity of glucose absorbed as estimated by the difference between the amount of polysaccharides present in the food and that passing out in the fteces. In all probability this deficit is to be explained not by the supposition that a part of the glucose is utilised within the diabetic organism, but by the hypothesis that part of the carbohydrate within the intestine is decomposed by organised ferments into lactic acid, butyric acid, carbon dioxide, and other products. The absence of the pancreatic juice from the intestinal canal, by diminishing the digestion and absorption of carbohydrates, leads to their prolonged retention within the alimentaiy canal, and thus gives an opportunity for the action of organised ferments. When maltose is given to dogs after excision of the pancreas, glucose alone is found in the urine, and the amount in the urine corresponds almost exactly to the quantity of glucose deriv- able by hydrolysis of the maltose given. The investigation of the fate of the Isevo- rotatory hexose Isevulose and its derivatives has led to very interesting results. When Isevulose is given, only traces of it appear in the urine, while the quantity of glucose excreted is much increased, the relation of the quantity of glucose to that of nitrogen mounting in some cases from 2'8 : 1 to 11 : 1. Part of the Ifevulose is utilised within the body, while the remainder is converted into glucose and excreted as such. If large quantities of Ifevulose be given, traces of unchanged Ifevulose appear in the urine. On the other hand, if its anhydride inulin be given even in large doses, no tevulose appears in the urine, presumably on account of slow conversion of inulin into liBvulose within the alimentary canal, so that large quantities of leevulose are not present there at any given time. Cane-sugar is inverted by an intestinal enzyme, and acts in the same way as the equal parts of ghicose and Ifevulose derivable from it. After the introduction of lactose into the alimentary canal of diabetic dogs, only glucose in increased amount is found in the urine, none of the lactose being excreted unchanged. Galactose also produces an increased excretion of glucose. None of it is excreted unchanged. With regard to the changes in the fluids and organs of diabetic dogs, tlie following ;xre the chief facts. The quantity of sugar in the blood is markedly increased, reaching values of from •3 to -4 per cent. If, after extirpation of the pancreas, the kidneys be also excised, the percentage of glucose in the blood is found to rise to -6 to -7. This result is most simply explained by a lessened utilisation of sugar within the body, in consequence of which the cessfition of the secretion of urine leads to the accumulation of glucose in the blood. The quantity of glycogen in the leucocytes is much increased, being four to five times as great as normal. This increase is the more interesting in view of the absence or diminution of glycogen in the liver. In the severest form of diabetes consequent upon complete extirpation of the pancreas, only traces of glycogen are to be found in the liver a few days after death. It is obvious that the absence of glycogen from the liver is not due to any want of material for its formation, since the quantity of glucose in the blood is largely increased, and a diet rich in starch does not perceptibly increase the quantity of glycogen in the liver. These facts favour the view that there is an intimate relation between the absence or diminution of glycogen in the liver and the accumulation of glucose in the blood. If Ifevulose be given after excision of the pancreas, the quantity of glycogen in the liver is distinctly increased. The glycogen formed imder these conditions was found to be identical with that deposited in the liver of a normal animal yielding on hydrolysis with dilute acid the dextro-rotatory glucose. The quantity of glycogen in the muscles is also increased by the administration of Ifevulose. The muscles of dogs after extirpation of the pancreas apparently contain less lactic acid than the muscles of a normal animal. The quantity of glycogen is also diminished, but not so markedly as in the case of the liver. The quantity of urine passed and the total nitrogen excreted are markedly increased. The presence of acetone, aceto-acetic acid, and /3-oxy- butyric acids is inconstant, their occurrence in the urine after excision of the pancreas being indeed the exception rather than the rule. Usually they are met with at a late stage of the disease, when the animal shows marked disturbance of nutrition, indicated by great loss of weight and strength. The largest amount of - oxybutyric acid found in the urine of twenty-four hours was 4 gms. It must, how- ever, be borne in mind that the quantity of y8-oxybutyric acid excreted probably represents only a fraction of that formed within the organism ; for even after complete excision of the pancreas the body is able readily to oxidise /3-oxybutyric acid. This has been proved by the fact that after administration of fi-oxj- butyric acid to a diabetic dog only P^''*' the quantity given could be recovered from the urine. Although the greater part of the acid appears to undergo complete oxidation, some is also excreted in the form of aceto-acetic acid and acetone. A large number of different theories has been suggested to explain the role played by the pancreas in the utilisation of the glucose formed within the body, and the problem is to be regarded as still far from completely solved. The experimental evidence already adduced proves that the reason for the diabetes following