PHARYNX—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 474 there is evidence of tubercle in other organs, the general health being also more markedly affected than in syphilis. The two diseases may, of course, be associated. Treatment must be general as well as local. Into the general treatment one need not here enter; locally, orthoform can be insufflated to relieve the dysphagia and permit of sufficient nourishment being taken—it may be combined with resorcin, and is preferable to morphia and repeated applications of cocaine. In suitable cases the affected area may be curetted, and lactic acid in solutions of increasing strength rubbed in at intervals. When this is not practicable iodoform has been found of service. Lupus.—When lupus attacks the fauces it is usually secondary to the disease in the in- teguments of the face and nose. The body of the uvula is commonly the starting-point, and hence it spreads along the soft palate to the pillars of the fauces. The morbid process is essentially one of in- filtration producing nodular thickening of the part affected. Ulceration follows, but the pro- cess is slowly destructive—cicatricial tissue de- veloping side by side with the ulceration. This chronicity of the disease and the efforts of nature to arrest give the part a characteristic appearance, and assist to distinguish it from other infective processes which attack this region. From tuberculosis it may be further distin- guished by the general health not being affected. The ulcers and cicatricial tissiies may bo con- founded with that produced by tertiary syphilis; in lupus the ulcers are not so deep, nor is the destruction of the adjacent structures so extensive. Moreover, if the patient is placed under antispecific treatment, lesions due to lupus, instead of healing, would probably be aggravated. The diagnosis may have to be made from epithelioma; the diffuse infiltration of lupus would help to distinguish it from malig- nant disease which partakes more of the nature of a tumour. Moreover, tuberculosis, syphilis, and malignant disease affecting the soft palate do not remain under observation for many days without giving evidence of the progressive character of these diseases; lupus, on the other hand, would remain comparatively stationary. The treatment must be directed towards im- proving the general health by means of tonics and fresh air. Tuberculin may be used for therapeutic as well as diagnostic purposes, and without danger, provided it is properly injected. When localised, the diseased tissue may be cauterised or curetted, and subsequently treated with lactic acid as suggested by Krause. Leprosy. — The opportunities for observing leprosy in the living subject in this country are but few. When it appears on the fauces, uvula, pharynx, or tongue, it is a secondary manifesta- tion of the disease. The infiltration is followed by ulceration and adhesions which might be sug- gestive of syphilis were not the general disease by this stage well established in other parts. Towards the end the disease may be associated with tuberculosis. Rhinosderoma. — In this disease, to which reference was made in discussing chronic in- fectious diseases of the nose, the pharynx and naso-pharynx are regions that are by no means infrequently iiivolved. The disease is character- ised by dense and hard infiltration with tendency to contraction and cicatrisation, but not to ulceration. The diagnosis is assisted by the fact that cases observed in this country have come from parts where the disease is endemic; should further evidence be required, the specific bacillus and also the cells of Mikulicz may be looked for. Retropharyngeal Abscess Retropharyngeal Abscess— Definition . . . . .474 Etiology 474 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . 474 Symptoms ..... 475 Diagnosis ..... 475 Prognosis . . . . .4^5 Treatment 475 Definition.—A collection of pus situated in the connective tissue between the posterior pharyngeal wall and the cervical vertebrse. Etiology.—The disease is essentially one of infancy, 75 per cent of the cases occurring during the first year of life, while it is very rare in children above four years. Retropharyngeal abscess is generally idiopathic, occurring in weakly, ill-nourished, or rickety children, or in those in whom an attack of one of the acute specifics has lowered the general vitality of the system. In these cases probably a septic in- fection of the nasal or pharyngeal mucous mem- branes has been the starting-point of disease. Less frequently the affection is secondary to cervical caries, suppurating tubercular cervical glands, suppurative middle ear lesion or its sequelae, and still more rarely it may result from traumatism. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—The idio- pathic abscess is a suppurative lymphadenitis of one of the retropharyngeal glands of Henle, situated one on each side of the middle line opposite the second and third cervical vertebrse. These glands disappear between the third and fifth year of life, and hence the confinement of the disease to the early period of childhood. In the exceptional adult idiopathic cases suppura- tion occurs in the degenerate remains of the glands referred to. A retropharyngeal abscess is unilateral, and generally most prominent in the oro - pharyngeal region. Though usually circumscribed, the pus, if not evacuated spon- taneously or artificially, may burrow in various directions, e.g. towards the larynx, producing