144 OBJECTIVE Objective. — A term generally used in medicine as opposed to subjective ; thus the signs of a disease recognised by the physician are called objective, while the symptoms felt and described by the patient himself are subjective. It is also the name given to the lens of a micro- scope nearest to the object which is being ex- amined {see Microscope, Objectives). Oblig'a.te.—That which is of necessity what it is; thus an obligate anaerobic microbe is one that can only live as an anaerobe, and an obligate parasite is an organism to which a parasitic life is indispensable if it is to attain to full development. Literally, the term means " bound " (Lat. obligare, to bind). ObliC|Ue.—Slanting or sloping, or diver- ging from a straight line or from the vertical or the horizontal, e.g. the obliquely contracted pelvis {see Labour, Prolonged, Rarer Pelvic Deformities). Obliquity.—The state or quality of being oblique. The foetal head as it lies at the brim of the maternal pelvis is described as having certain obliquities: since its occipito-frontal diameter corresponds with one of the two oblique diameters of the brim, the head is said to have Solayres's obliquity; since it has its posterior or occipital end lower than its anterior or sincipital, it is said to have Roederer's obliquity; and since it may have one side (that next the maternal symphysis pubis) lower than the other, it is described as having Naegele's obliquity or a lateral or biparietal obliquity. ObliquUS.—In anatomy this term is applied to certain structures, especially muscles, which have a direction parallel neither to the long axis of the body or a limb nor to its trans- verse section, e.g. the obliquus externus ab- dominis and the obliquus superior of the neck. Obliteration.—Closure of the lumen of a duct or vessel, e.g. of the bile ducts or of the ductus arteriosus (at birth). See Liver, Dis- eases of {Obstructive Biliary Cirj^hosis); New- born Infant {Icterus Neonatorum, Symptomatic). Obliterative Arteritis. >See Ar- teries, Diseases of {Obliterative Endarteritis). Obnubilation.—The state of mental obscuration (Lat. obnubilare, to cover with clouds) which immediately precedes syncope or death; an overclouding. Obsession.—The action upon the mind of any fixed or imperative idea or notion; if continued, an oVjsession may result in impulse; originally, obsession meant a besetting of any- one by an evil spirit or the devil (Lat. obsidere, to besiege). See Hypnotism {Uses); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhi- bition, Impulse and Obsession). Obstetrics.—The subdivision of medical study and practice which deals with pregnancy, labour, and the puerperium in their physio- logical and pathological developments; mid- wifery. See Ablactation ; Abortion ; Acci- dental HEMORRHAGE ; AcCOUCHEMENT FORCE ; Accoucheur ; Acrania ; Afterbirth ; After- Pains ; Agalactia ; Agnathy ; Ambulant ; Amnion ; Amputations, Intra-uterine ; Anes- thesia {Ether in Obstetrics); Anencephalus ; Anideus ; Antenatal Pathology ; Aprosopus ; Asphyxia {New-born Children); Assimilation- Pelvis ; Axis-Traction ; Bag ; Ballottement ; Bandl's Ring; Basilysis; Basiotribe; Binder; Bipolar Version ; Birth ; Blastula ; Bossi's Dilator; Brachial Plexus {Obstetrical Para- lysis) ; Breech ; Broad Ligament ; Brow Cases ; Buist's Method ; Cesarean Section ; Calliper - Compasses ; Canalisation ; Caput Succedaneum ; Cebocephalus ; Cephalhema- toma ; Cephalotomy ; Cephalotripsy ; Cervix Uteri ; Childbed ; Chorion ; Cleidotomy ; Coffin-Birth ; Colostrum ; Concealment of Birth ; Conjugate ; Convulsions ; Cord ; Cor- PORE Conduplicato ; Crede Method ; Cross- Birth ; Crotchet ; Curettage ; Cyclopia ; Cyllosomus ; Decapitation ; Decidua ; De- collator ; Delivery ; Denman's Spontaneous Evolution ; Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neona- torum ; Detachment of Placenta ; Diceph- alus ; DiPROsopus; Dry Labour ; Dystocia ; EcBOLics; Eclampsia ; Ectopic Gestation ; Edocephalus ; Embryo ; Embryology ; Embry- ULCiA; Epignathus ; Episiorrhaphy ; Episi- OTOMY; Ergot ; Eugenics ; Eutocia ; Exbn- cephalus ; ExoMPHALOs; Fallopian Tubes ; Flat Pelvis ; Fcetus and Ovum ; Fontanelles ; Forceps ; Funis ; Galactagogue ; Gastro - scHisis; Gemelli Coaliti ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Germinal Pathology ; Gesta- tion ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Hemato- metra ; " Harlequin Fcetus "; Head-Locking ; Hebotomy ; Hemicephaly ; Hemipagus ; Her- maphroditism ; Heteropagus ; Hook ; Hy- datid Mole ; Hydrocephalus ; Hydrorrhcea ; Hyperemesis ; Hypognathus ; Hysterectomy ; Hysterotomy ; Induction of Labour ; Infant Feeding; Iniencephaly ; Inversion ; Involu- tion ; Ischiopagus; Jacquemier's Test; Jani- CEPS; Justo-major and Justo-minor Pelvis ; Labia ; Labour, Physiology ; Labour, Patho- logy ; Labour, Operations ; Lactation ; Lahs' Theory ; Laparotomy ; Lecanopagus; Lie ; Lingering Labour ; Liquor Amnii ; Lochia ; " Longings "; Lying-in ; Lysol ; Maieutics ; Malacosteon; Malposition; Mammary Gland; Management ; Mania, Puerperal ; Maternal Impressions ; Maternity ; Mechanism ; Me- conium ; Medicine, Forensic {Pregnancy, etc.); Meningocele ; Menopause ; Menstruation ; Mermaid Fcetus ; Metacyesis ; Midwives ; Milk ; Molar Pregnancy ; New-born Infant, Diseases; Nubility; Obliquity; Osteomalacia;