311 PARALYSIS though dormant morbid condition. The same may be said of fatigue, which probably only serves to intensify phenomena that really existed, though they had not been previously noticed. The same relationship exists between dissemi- nated sclerosis and emotion; moreover, any of these influences are capable of causing relapses, or may accelerate the progress of the disease. So, too, the first manifestations of the malady have been observed during pregnancy, and it is certain that pregnancy and parturition exercise an unfavourable influence on the course of dis- seminated sclerosis. Morbid Anatomy.—Patches of sclerosis are scattered at random throughout the nervous system, any part of which is liable to be attacked, though there appears to be a predilection for certain regions. The areas of sclerosis are usually found both in the brain and spinal cord, though in a few exceptional cases that have been recorded it is possible that the disease was really limited to the brain or cord, and that islets of sclerosis were not overlooked in the parts sup- posed to be unaffected. The peripheral nerves would appear to be much less liable to attack; but they have not received the same amount of careful examination that has been bestowed on the central nervous system, so that it is possible that future investigations may prove that the peripheral nerves do not enjoy the immunity that has been supposed. Although the whole nervous system is liable to be attacked there are certain seats of election ; thus, in the cerebral hemispheres the white matter of the centrum ovale, and the grey matter of the basal ganglia, are much more often invaded than is the grey matter of the cortex. In the spinal cord the patches of sclerosis are most plentiful in the white matter, and invasion of the grey matter is less frequently seen, though it does occur, and an island of sclerosis may be even limited to the grey matter in some part of the cord. The cerebellum is, as a rule, less affected than other parts of the central nervous system, and, as in the case of the cerebrum, the white matter is more often attacked than the grey cortex. No parts are respected in the crus, pons, and medulla oblongata, where the sclerotic areas are scattered at random through the grey and white matter. We possess very little definite information with regard to the peripheral nervous system, except in so far as certain of the cranial nerves and spinal nerve roots are concerned. Sclerosis may invade the nucleus of a nerve or its fibres in their intra-medullary course, or after they have left the central nervous system. Any of the cranial nerves may be thus affected, though the optic and olfactory nerves are most com- monly attacked. They have, however, been found intact when other cranial nerves have been invaded. In the case of the optic nerves the patches of sclerosis may occur in some part of the nerve itself, or in the tract or chiasma. Both motor and sensory spinal nerve roots may show changes, and the nerves of the cauda equina have been found degenerated, so that it is possible that more systematic examination of the peripheral nerves will reveal changes in them also. As seen with the unaided eye, before the brain and spinal cord have been placed in a preservative fluid, the islands of sclerosis are of a warm grey colour, or they are reddish- grey or brown, and they have a peculiar trans- lucent appearance; indeed, they may be quite gelatinous looking. They vary in size from quite minute islets up to patches two or more centimetres in diameter, and they appear to be sharply demarcated from the surrounding healthy tissues. These areas of sclerosis may be seen on the external surface of the part affected, or they may be only revealed on section. Microscopical examination may confirm the impression received on macroscopic examination, that the transition from normal to abnormal structure is abrupt, but in other cases the transition is seen to be gradual. The former state of things is especially liable to be seen at the lateral limits of an area of sclerosis which affects a tract of parallel fibres, whereas the ends of such a patch may show a gradual transition from healthy to morbid structure. One of the most extraordinary features of the disease is the remarkable power of resistance shown by the axis cylinders, for even when the myelin sheaths of the nerve fibres are com- pletely destroyed, the axis cylinders, as a rule, remain intact. This escape of the axis cylinders has been supposed to explain the still more remarkable fact that secondary degeneration of the nerve element does not occur, except very rarely, and then limited, as a rule, to a very short distance in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the patch of sclerosis which causes it. Thus sclerotic tissue may interrupt the various long tracts in the spinal cord, and other parts of the central nervous system, without any ascending or descending degeneration resulting. The cell bodies of the neurones also escape until late in the course of the disease, as a rule, and much sclerosis may exist in their immediate neighbourhood without the cells themselves showing any evidence of structural change. The escape of this part of the peripheral motor neurones, in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, explains why muscular atrophy and the reaction of degeneration are so rarely met with in disseminated sclerosis. There is marked proliferation of the inter- stitial tissue, and large numbers of glial cells are, as a rule, seen; the dense mass of fibrils are arranged longitudinally when they occur in nerve tracts of parallel fibres, but they form a