309 PARALYSIS plegia).—In that the muscles supplied by bulbar nerves are represented in both cerebral hemi- spheres, a lesion in one hemisphere cannot cause paralysis of these muscles, and, accord- ingly, bulbar symptoms do not result from unilateral cerebral lesions. When there is a lesion in both cerebral hemispheres, however, and double hemiplegia results, bulbar symptoms are present, and the condition has been desig- nated " pseudo-bulbar paralysis." In these cases there is always a history of two attacks of hemiplegia, first on one side and then on the other. With the first attack no bulbar symptoms arise other than the ordinary articu- latory difficulty of speech commonly present in hemiplegia; but if a second attack causes paralysis of the other half of the body bulbar symptoms result. There may be inability to raise the upper lip so as to show the teeth; the tongue is not properly protruded; speech is impossible, or is characterised by a marked nasal quality, or the patient may even be unable to phonate. Swallowing is difficult, and the soft palate may not move at all, or but little, on attempts at phonation. Despite these defects the muscles do not atrophy: they respond normally on electrical excitation, and reflex action is preserved in the soft palate and pharynx. The limbs are weak on both sides, though like the face the side more recently affected may be weaker than that first attacked (see also "Hemiplegia," vol. iv. p. 165). Asthenic bulbar pa^^alysis (Myasthenia gravis) is described elsewhere {see vol. vi.). Diagnosis.—The problems to be discussed in the diagnosis of bulbar paralysis differ according to whether the acute or chronic form of the affection is under consideration. The first point to be decided in a case of acute bulbar paralysis is whether the symptoms are due to a lesion in the pons or medulla, or whether the case is one of pseudo-bulbar paralysis consequent on a lesion in each cerebral hemisphere. In the latter class of case there is always a history of an attack of hemiplegia at some time before the attack in which the bulbar symptoms arise; the reflex irritability of the palate and pharynx is preserved, the muscles do not waste, and they respond normally on electrical excitation. If it is decided that the lesion is in the bulb, it next becomes a question as to whether it is supra-nuclear, nuclear, or infra-nuclear in posi- tion. In such considerations we receive valuable help from the state of nutrition of the affected muscles, their mode of response on electrical stimulation, and the state of reflex excitability of the palate and pharynx. If the lesion is situated in the motor path above the nuclei of the bulbar nerves, then the muscles do not waste; they continue to respond normally on electrical stimulation, and the reflex action of the palate and pharynx is preserved; but if the nuclei, or the nerves in their intra-medullary course after they have emerged from their nviclei, are involved the affected muscles waste, as may be determined in the tongue and lips. Moreover, the atrophied muscles present the reaction of degeneration. The alterations in the electrical excitability of the muscles can be determined in the palate as well as in the tongue; and, moreover, the reflex excitability of the palate and phai'ynx are either diminished or abolished. It is usually difficult to discriminate between cases in which the defects are due to affection of the bulbar nerves, as opposed to implication of their nuclei, in that the cases have so many points in common. We, however, derive some help from the fact that lesions which involve some of the nuclei of cranial nerves occasion paralysis of more muscles than are supplied by the nerve itself. Thus a lesion that involves the hypoglossal nuclei may cause paralysis of the orbicularis oris as well as of the tongue, whereas when the nerve is affected the tongue is alone paralysed. So, too, the proximity of the hypoglossal nuclei to each other makes it unlikely that one would be involved in a lesion without the other, except in poliomyelitis. On the other hand, the hypoglossal nerve is sufficiently near to the pyramidal tract to make some implication of the motor path possible when a lesion involves this nerve in its intra- medullary course, hence evidence of crossed hemiplegia is in favour of a lesion of the nerve as opposed to affection of its nucleus. The points that serve to distinguish the chronic nuclear form from asthenic bulbar paralysis (myasthenia gravis) are referred to in connection with the latter affection {see " Myas- thenia Gravis," vol. vi.). Cases in which an acute lesion has caused widespread defects in the distribution of the bulbar nerves are distinguished from chronic nuclear bulbar paralysis by the history of acute onset and by the non-progressive character of the affection. The same facts that help us to decide between nuclear and infra-nuclear affections when the lesion is acute hold good when the chronic forms of bulbar paralysis are under consideration. Extra-medullary lesions are almost always uni- lateral, and are further characterised by para- lysis of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid, in conjunction with similar affection of the half of the tongue, palate, and larynx on the same side. Prognosis.—In acute bulbar paralysis the chief danger is that the patient may die when the manifestations are still acute ; but many of them survive this stage, and prognosis then becomes much better than in the chronic forms of bulbar paralysis, for even complete recovery is possible, though rare, while some improve- ment results in all patients that do not succumb during the acute stage. Most improvement