PEMPHIGUS 395 sleeplessness, and loss of heat and fluid, soon show themselves, and the patient finally dies from lung trouble, gastro-enteritis, or other intercurrent disease. Between these two ex- tremes all varieties in chronicity are found, and even in cases which apparently recover in a short time relapses are common. The chief complications of ordinary pemphigus are the implication of the mucous membranes of the mouth, vagina, conjunctivae (for a description of pemphigus conjunctivie see vol. ii. p. 213), and nephritis, the last-named being of very ominous significance. (4) Pemphigus Foliaceus.—This form may either commence as such from the first, or may supervene in a rebellious case of ordinary pem- phigus. It is characterised by the appearance of ill-formed, flaccid bulte with semi-purulent contents, or sometimes the epidermis is merely detached without being raised, so that it is hardly correct to speak of bullae at all. Instead of drying up into a scab, as was described under simple pemphigus, the lesion spreads peri- pherally after the rupture of the covering, and no fresh, sound epidermis is formed from the floor of the original lesion. Thus the eruption becomes in time almost or quite universal, and the body is covered with shreds of partially detached epidermis, moist, red, exuding patches and brownish crusts. At this period infections become common, and boils and abscesses are of frequent occurrence. The patient develops a peculiar sweetish and most terribly nauseous odour, which is probably due to the decom- position of the albuminous discharge. In this stage vesicles are with difficulty, even if at all, recognisable. The whole epidermis appears to have become so rotten that the roof of any developing blister becomes broken at once. All the epidermic appendages become involved in the disease, the hair falls out, and the nails become broken and frequently lost. The mucous membranes are also attacked, so that swallowing becomes a matter of difficulty, and the patient, by this time intensely emaciated, lies almost immovable, the slightest alteration of position causing fresh tears and cracks in the epidermis, and being accompanied by acute pain. Fever is constantly present, sleep and appetite are almost completely lost, and the patient finally succumbs to diarrhoea or pul- monary congestion. (5) Pemphigus Vegetans.—This disease was originally described by Neumann in 1876, similar cases having been previously looked upon as syphilitic. At the present time opinion is somewhat divided as to its nature, Unna preferring to separate it entirely from pemphigus under the name of Erythema bullosum vegetans, while others still believe it to be merely a variety of pemphigus. The disease is an extremely rare one, about thirty undoubted cases only having been re- ported. It begins usually in the mouth, and may be limited to this region for some time (one month in one of Herxlieimer's cases). Later, bulhe which do not differ very strikingly from those of ordinary pemphigus, begin to make their appearance. There is, however, a peculiarity of distribution noticeable, in that the lesions seem to have a special predilection for the axillte, genitals, and flexures of the thighs. There seems to be some doubt as to the appearance of the primitive lesion, Unna stating that it begins as " a red spot the size of a threepenny bit to a shilling, which may extend in one or two days to the size of the palm of the hand. It has sharply-margined, erysipelas-like borders, and there appear in the centre large thin-walled blebs, which soon dry up spontaneously into crusts." Kaposi also described them as begin- ning upon a red base in the form of lentil-sized vesicles, and says that in the first day or two the base resembles a wheal. Croker, Herx- heimer, and others, however, find that the bullae have no special characteristics at first. After the bullae or vesicles are once formed they rapidly become cloudy, and usually dry up or burst in a day or two. The floor of the blister does not then form a new horny layer, but remains moist, red, and weeping, or may become covered with a brownish crust. Meanwhile the process of vesicle formation spreads serpiginously at the edge of the former bulla, so that in time huge areas of skin become denuded of their supra-papillary epithelium. These denuded areas then begin to take on active growth, shared in both by the epidermis and papillae, so that the characteristic condy- loma-like structure is produced. This process is naturally most marked in the flexures, and the skin in these regions is constantly exuding a mucoid fluid with an extremely nauseating odour. The hair becomes thin, and the nails brittle and often lost. Owing to the progressive im- plication of the mouth, nose, and pharynx, the ability of the patient to swallow nourishment is seriously interfered with. Emaciation from this cause, as well as from pain, sleeplessness, and chronic septic poisoning, becomes therefore extreme, and the patient almost invariably dies from exhaustion, nephritis, or lung trouble. Herxheimer has called attention to the pres- ence of muscular tremors even during rest as symptoms of this and other severe forms of pemphigus. Etiology and Pathology.—As has been already pointed out, there is little doubt that both varieties of acute pemphigus are of an infective nature. In the other forms little is known about the cause. The disease seems to aftect both sexes about equally, but is more frequent in children and in young adults than in people