PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 540 1st. Under the influence of light the cells of the tapetum nigrum expand forward between the rods and cones. 2nd. A purple pigment which exists in the outer segment of the rods is bleached. Even although there is no purple in the cones, which alone occupy the sensitive central spot of the eye, this change in colour suggests that a chemical decomposition accompanies stimulation. 3rd. Electrical changes occur. (6) Fatigue.—If a bright light be looked at for some time, the part of the retina acted upon is temporarily blinded, and hence when the eye is taken off the bright light a dark spot is seen. This is sometimes called a negative after image. When coloured lights are used the phenomena of complemental colours are produced (p. 541). Sometimes the stimulation of the retina or of the brain neurons connected with it may last after the withdrawal of the stimulus, when a continuance of the sensation — a positive after image—is seen. This may be observed if, on opening the eyes in the morning, a well- illuminated window is looked at and the eyes closed. A persisting image of the window may be seen. 2. The Poiver of Localising the Source or Direction of Illumination.—This may be de- termined in the same way as in studying the sense of touch—by finding how near two points may be stimulated and still give rise to a double sensation. Over the central spot two points of a i c d b Fig. 63.—The power of localising the source of illumination on different parts of the retina. The two points, a-b, subtended by the small angle, fall close together at a-b near the centre of the retina, and still give rise to a double sensation; but if two points, c-d, have their images formed on the periphery of the retina, c-d, these images must be far apart to cause a double sensation. illumination may be as near to one another as about four micro-millimetres, and still two sen- sations be experienced. This is determined by finding the smallest optical angle which can be subtended by, say, two stars without their images being fused. This angle varies from seventy-three to fifty seconds in different indi- viduals, and this corresponds to from 5-31 to 3'65 micros, on the retina (Fig. 63). Over the central spot the centres of the cones are about this distance from one another, and it would seem that, to get a double sensation, two cones must be stimulated. On passing to the more peripheral part of the retina, where the cones are more scattered, the power of localising de- creases and larger and larger optical angles must be subtended by the two objects—e.g. the points of a pair of compasses—in order that both may be seen. As pointed out on p. 539, this condition applies more especially to the eye when brightly illuminated. 3. Colour Sensation—Physics of Light Vibra- tion.—Physically the various colours are essen- tially different rates of vibration of the ether, and only a comparatively small range of these vibrations stimulate the retina. The slowest acting vibrations are at the rate of about 435 billions per second, while the fastest are not more than 764 billions — the relationship of the slowest to the fastest is something like 4 to 7. The apparent colour of objects is due to the fact that they absorb certain parts of the spectrum, and either transmit onwards other parts, or reflect other parts. The vast variety of colours which are perceived in nature is due to the fact that the pure spectral colours are modified by the brightness of illumination, and by admixture with other parts of the spectrum. Thus a surface which in bright sunlight appears of a brilliant red, becomes maroon, and finally brown and black, as the light fades. Again, a pure red when diluted with all the spectrum— i.e. with white light—becomes pink as it becomes less and less saturated. Physiology of Colour Sensation.—1. The peri- pheral part of the retina is colour blind—is incapable of acting so as to produce colour sensations. This may be shown by means of the perimeter and coloured chalks. Until the chalk is brought well within the field of vision FlQ. 64.—Distribution of colour sensation in relationship to the surface of the retina (Colour Perimeter). A indicates the extent of retina stimulated by white and black; B, the part also capable of stimulation by blue and yellow ; and C, the central part capable also of stimulation by red and green. its colour cannot be made out. As the image of the chalk travels in along the retina it is found that yellow and blue can be distinguished before red and green—that is, that there is a zone of retina which is blind to red and green, but which can distinguish blue and yellow. Only the central part of the retina is capable of being stimulated by all colours. These zones