NOSE—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 90 syphilis, glanders, and in children from chronic eczema. From lupus it can be clinically dis- associated by the absence of the characteristic growths in the skin. Lupus may extend to the mucous surface of the nose, and a differential diagnosis then becomes difficult. A bacterio- scopic examination will enable one to distinguish the ulceration from that occasioned by syphilis, glanders, and eczema. The tuberculous tumours may have to be differentiated from other tumours, such as sarcoma and fibroma, and it is important that the section made for this purpose should be cut through the deepest parts of the growth. Tuberculous disease of the nose does not materialh^ affect the prognosis of the general or pulmonai-y disease of which it is a part, in the way that tuberculous disease of the larynx adds to the gravity of a case. The treatment must be general, and the same as that adopted when tuberculosis affects other regions. The special treatment to be directed to the local lesion consists in removing the growth, curetting the ulcers, and treating them with lactic acid, after the method suggested by Krause in the treatment of tuberculosis of the larynx. Relapses occur, but it will probably be found, with increasing experience, that by means of tuberculin the disease can be made more amenable to treatment. Lupus.—Lupus has many points pathologi- cally in common with tubercle, and it is often with difficulty that it can be clinically dis- tinguished. Lupus is very seldom primary in the nose ; in a large majority of cases it is an extension from the integument adjacent to the anterior nares; the septum is commonly attacked early. On inspection the meatuses are usually found to be more or less obstructed by crusts; it is only after the removal of these the nature and extent of the disease can be made out. The nasal mucous membrane can then be seen studded with small nodules, usually discrete, at times ulcerating and coalescing. The diagnosis has to be made from syphilis—the latter runs a more rapid and destructive course, and responds to an antisyphilitic treatment. The disease may be associated with syphilis, and at times it is difficult to distinguish the two. Lupus runs a chronic course, and the treat- ment, as in the case of tuberculosis of the nose, must be general as well as local. Locally the nodules may be removed by means of galvano- cautery, curetted and treated with lactic acid. Tuberculin may certainly be tried, for some of the patients treated with it have been perma- nently benefited. Glanders.—This disease is occasionally met with affecting the nose in a chronic or an acute form. In some cases of glanders the nasal mucous membrane is secondarily infected, and thence inflammatory swellings may spread to the tissues of the face. Symptoms of rapid pyaemia supervene, and death commonly ensues in the course of two or three weeks. In the chronic form the disease may last for months, and recovery then occur; but it usually takes on the characters of the acute form with a rapidly fatal result. Any doubts about the diagnosis can be set at rest by microscopic examination revealing the presence of the glanders bacillus discovered by Loffler and Schutz in 1882. An absolute diagnosis can only be made by means of cultures and animal experiments. Leprosy.—Leprosy attacks the mucous mem- brane of the nose, and is characterised by ulceration and destruction of the bony parts. A diagnosis can be arrived at by means of a bacterioscopic examination; treatment can only be symptomatic, and directed towards the re- moval of the crusts and cleansing of the parts. Rhinoscleroma.—Rhinoscleroma is a very rare disease, and is scarcely ever met with in this country. The majority of cases that have been reported have been in the south-east of Eiirope; a few in Central America, Egypt, and India. The disease belongs to the group of infective granulomata, and is characterised by nodular thickenings in the mucous membrane of the nose and the adjacent skin. They also occur in the pharynx, larynx, and the upper part of the trachea. In the nose it is prone to attack the cartilaginous part, and the commencement of the bony part of the nasal cavity and choanse. The symptoms to which the disease gives rise are, in addition to a certain amount of deformity, a feeling of stiffness and discomfort about the integument occasioned by the infiltration of the tissues. The nodules show no tendency to break down or to ulcerate. The disease is slowly progressive, and the obstruction which it causes- may require operative treatment. The morbid process is occasioned by a bacillus,, first described by Frisch. The cells in the gramdation tissue forming the nodules have peculiar characteristics, and present an appear- ance of degeneration. The bacilli lie within these cells, but they have been observed lying free in the lymphatic spaces around. They are short, oval rods with capsides, and closely re- semble Friedliinder's pneumo-bacillus ; they do not stain by Gram's method. Another organism has been described, but experimental inoculation has done but little to dispel the doubts that have arisen on the subject. Rhinoscleroma is a slow, progressive disease, and treatment has not demonstrated its cura- bility. Inunctions of lanolin containing 1 per cent of corrosive sublimate have been re- commended and attended with some success. Resolution and disappearance of the condition has been recorded after an attack of typhus fever.