EURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 508 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND N. may be made to record its vibrations on the surface. In this way such a tracing as is shown in Fig. 23 is produced. From this it is evident that the muscle does not contract the very moment it is stimulated, but that a short latent period supervenes be- tween the stimulation and the contraction. In the muscle of the frog attached to a lever this usually occupies about xw^^ second; but if the change in the muscle is directly photo- graphed without any lever being attached to it, this period is found to be very much shorter. The latent period is followed by the period of contraction. At first it is sudden, hnt it becomes slower, and finally stops. Its average duration in the frog's muscle is about o^th second. The period of relaxation follows that of con- traction, and it depends essentially on the 3 ^ s^^AAA/\/^AAyV^'VA^ Fio. 23.—Trace of simple muscle twitch (1) showing ijeriods of latency, contraction, and relaxation ; record of moment of stimulation (2); and a time record made with a tuning fork vibrating 100 times per second (3). elasticity of the muscle, whereby it tends to recover its shape when the distorting force is removed. The recovery is therefore at first fast and then slow, and it lasts in the frog's muscle about yf oth second. The whole contraction thus lasts only about x^gth second in the frog's muscle. In mammalian muscle it is much shorter, and in the muscle of insects shorter still. 2'nd. Extent of Contraction.—While, as will be afterwards considered, the extent of con- traction is modified by the strength of stimulus and the state of the muscle, the total extent of contraction is primarily determined by the length of the muscle. If a muscle of two inches contracts to one-half its length, the amount of contraction is one inch, but if a muscle of four inches contracts to the same amount, it shortens by two inches. '^rd. Force of conti-action is measured by finding what weight the muscle can lift, and the absolute force of a muscle may be expressed by the weight which is just too gi'eat to be lifted. The lifting power of a muscle depends primarily upon its thickness or sectional area. The absolute force of a muscle may therefore be expressed per unit of sectional area. In man the absolute force per 1 sq. cm. is from 5000 to 10,000 grams. The force of contraction is, however, modified by so manj^ other condi- tions that no definite figure can be given. The force of contraction during diff'erent parts of the contraction period may be recorded by making the muscle pull upon a strong spring, so that it can barely shorten. The slight bending of the spring may be magnified and recorded by a long lever, and in this way it is foimd that the ordinary curve of contrac- tion gives a fair representation of the variations in the force. This method of recording the force of contraction is sometimes called the isometric method, in distinction to the isotonic method of letting the muscle act on a light lever. In clinical medicine the dynamometer is used for measuring the force of muscular contraction. The contraction of muscles in the body of the mammal may be studied by recording their thickening by Marey's muscle forceps, in which a tambour placed between the limbs of a pair of forceps is pressed upon by the contraction of a muscle or group of muscles lying between the opposite limbs, and transmits the pressure to another tambour which carries a recording lever. II. The Factors modifying the Contraction,— 1. Kind of Fibre.—In skeletal muscles the pale fibres contract more rapidly and completely than the red fibres, which contain more sarco- plasra and nuclei. The peculiarities of the con- traction of visceral muscles will be considered later. 2. Species of Animal. — In vertebrates the contraction of the muscles of warm-blooded animals is more rapid than the contraction in cold-blooded animals. The most rapidly con- tracting muscles are met with in insects. 3. State of the Muscle.— (1) Continued Exer- cise.— If a muscle is made to contract repeat- edly, the contractions take place more and more sluggishly. At first each contraction is greater in extent, but, as the contractions go on, the extent diminishes as fatigue becomes manifest, and stimulation finally fails to call forth any response. This condition is probably caused by the accumulation of the products of activity in the muscle act- ing as poisons upon its proto- plasm, for the same phenomena may be induced by the applica- I tion of dilute l'IG. 24.-InmieiKe of continued exer- cise on skeletal muscle—1, the first acids and certain trace; 2, a trace after moderate ntJior r1rno« nnrl exercise; 3, a trace when fatigue OUier Clings, ana has been induced. may be removed for a time by washing out the muscle with salt solutions (Fig. 24). (2) Temperature.—If a muscle be warmed above the normal temperature of the animal from which it is taken, all the phases of con- traction become more rapid, and the contraction is at first increased in extent, but subsequently decreased in force. If, on the other hand, a