156 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF origin is probably either nuclear or superior to the nuclei. Along with some other symptoms of paralysis of the sympathetic, such as contracted pupil and retraction of the globe, a form of ptosis is sometimes met witli. A peculiar affection of the third nerve, to which, when accompanied by hemicrania on the same side, Charcot gave the name of ophthalmic migraine, is occasionally seen, in which paralysis, usually if not always attacking the whole nerve, comes on, is re- covered from, and recurs again and again ; this is sometimes associated with the menstrual function in women, but it occurs also in men. It is still a question which awaits decision whether such cases are nuclear or basal in their origin; certainly in some there has been disease of the trunk of the nerve. Another peculiar condition is congenital paralysis of one or both of the sixth nerves; in this condition there are two puzzling circumstances, namely, that secondai-y deviation may be entirely absent, and that, as a rule, on cessation of attempted move- ment to one or other side, the eyes are brought spontaneously to mid position again. As regards the etiology of ocular paralysis one need not be other than brief. Syphilis accounts for a very large proportion of the cases either directly or indirectly; for apart from those cases, not indeed very numerous, in which various muscles may be paralysed as a " direct" manifestation of syphilis, one must consider those occurring from the pressure of a gumma, or the result of syphilitic disease of vessels, and those which form, sometimes early, sometimes later, manifestations of locomotor ataxy—itself so frequently of syphilitic origin. Tubercular lesions account for a considerable number of the remainder, both by pressure of nodules, by meningitis, and direct disease of nuclei. Dia- betes and diphtheria are alike in this i-espect, that the toxin of each is able to cause nuclear paralysis {e.g. of accommodation), and in the course of either inflammatory complications are apt to lead to direct paralysis of peripheral nerves. A certain proportion of cases is due to trauma, either intracranial, as when the sixth nerves are implicated in a fracture of the base of the skull, or orbital, as when the inferior oblique is injured by a blow or penetrating wound damaging the floor of the orbit. (It is said that the inferior oblique is never paralysed alone except by trauma.) But a large number of cases have to be attributed to rheumatism and to " cold " ; these causes are specially prone to affect the external rectus muscle, and are not infrequently recurrent. Indirectly, also, Bright's disease is responsible for certain cases. On the question of prognosis a few words must be said, and it is convenient to take the different situations of the lesions separately. Fascicular lesions depend entirely for their prognosis on the nature and situation of the damage, and on its completeness. The articles upon various cerebral lesions should be consulted. Nuclear lesions vary very greatly in this matter, for while some are excessively slowly progressive (cases have been known to become very gradually worse during a period of twenty years), others pass away in a few days, while yet others are followed speedily by death. As a general rule, if the onset be sudden, the patient will either recover or the condition will remain stationary; it is rare for a sudden onset to be followed by slow progress. Thus the prognosis in post - diphtheritic paralysis of accommodation, which is an acutely occurring nuclear paralysis, is very good; that of the ophthalmoplegia of children is fairly good, for most of the patients recover completely, al- though in a few the I'esult is very different. In the author's experience, again, nuclear paralyses occurring in diabetes have been of very sinister import, though all writers do not consider them so very grave. In the paralyses of locomotor ataxy, as we have seen, which are probably nuclear in situation, the prospect of recovery is good, but in this as in some other conditions there is danger of recurrence. In such basal paralyses as are occasioned by pressure of ;i neoplasm upon the nerve, or by its implication in an actual fracture, no improvement is of course to be looked for, and in those cases in which a meningitis has been the cause, the nerves becoming either implicated in the in- flammation or pressed on by the effusion, the chief consideration is the continued life of the patient; but this granted, and the health of the patient improved, a wonderful degree of im- provement in the muscular condition may also occur. In the orbital causes of paralysis, as well as in the last two headings, a very great deal depends upon the question whether the lesion is or is not syphilitic; if it be, the prognosis is good, and even after a long time of apparent unsuccess one may see a paralysis pass quickly away, whether produced by a nuclear lesion, the pressure of a gumma at the base, or an orbital affection. In the ordinary orbital paralysis recovery is the rule, but not without exception, though the process is sometimes dis- tressingly slow. The treatment of paralysis of any of the ocular muscles must, in the first instance, proceed upon the lines which are indicated by its etiology : in a rheumatic patient we should employ anti-rheumatic remedies internally; in a syphilitic, anti-syphilitics, and so on. Locally the only treatment which is, in the opinion of the writer, likely to be of much service is blistering, and its period of probable benefit is but short. The method which he prefers is to apply the blister over a very small area of the temple, and to repeat it over a neighbouring portion of skin two or three times at intervals of forty - eight hours. Blistering has fallen