NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 123 by the sense of touch, and not under the guidance of the eye. Lambert Lack, who strongly advocates this line of procedure in suitable cases, examines the ethmoidal region with the finger introduced both through the anterior and posterior nares. The middle tur- binate bone is removed with the spokeshave, and large polypi by means of forceps. The lateral mass of the ethmoid is then thoroughly scraped away with a large ring knife, an instru- ment which he considers much more effective than the sharp spoon. From time to time the finger is introduced so as to determine the presence of diseased areas of bone, and to define the limits of the healthy tissue determined by its smooth, firm, and resistant feel. It is un- necessary to emphasise the necessity of exercis- ing the greatest care when working in proximity to the cribriform plate and os planum of the ethmoid bone. At the end of the operation all haemorrhage is arrested by packing the cavity with a strip of gauze soaked in glycerine- iodoform emulsion, which should be changed every second or third day and the nose syringed. This radical procedure, which has been attended with very considerable success in Lack's hands, is advocated on the grounds that it is less irksome, tedious, and painful for the patient, and that more satisfactory results are thus obtained. Those cases of ethmoid disease which are associated with orbital phlegmon and abscess, or with the formation of an orbital fistula, demand an external operation in addition to the usual intranasal treatment. In the latter case the fistula must be enlarged, and the communication with the ethmoid cells sought for. Where there is no external opening the labyrinth may be entered through a curved incision closely resembling that employed in opening the frontal sinus, but which is pro- longed downwards towards the inner canthus of the eye. By raising the periosteum along with the soft parts the inner wall of the orbit is exposed. If a communication with the bone is found it is opened up, the ethmoid cells curetted, and a free passage established with the nasal chamber. By the use of gauze pledgets the haemorrhage may be satisfactorily controlled. After swabbing the cavity with pure carbolic acid it is plugged with gauze, and the external wound is partially closed. D. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in the Sphenoidal Sinus.—The removal of the middle turbinated bone, which has already been effected for diagnostic purposes, or which may have been removed in the treatment of ethmoidal disease, forms a necessary preliminary stage in the treatment of sphenoidal sinus suppuration. The subsequent steps should consist in the establishment of free drainage, and in the removal as far as possible of all diseased mucous membrane. While it is true that in a certain number of cases the natural opening can be catheterised and the cavity in this way satisfactorily washed out, it must not be forgotten that the orifice is small, and is usually situated some distance above the floor of the sinus. Better drainage can therefore be established by breaking down the anterior sinus wall, a procedure which also permits of the subsequent introduction of the curette, and the scraping of the interior of the cavity. The operation is performed through the anterior naris under cocaine anaesthesia, and with the aid of good illumination. Hajek introduces a small but strong hook into the sphenoidal opening, and, so to speak, tears down its anterior wall, the pieces of bone and mucous membrane thus partially detached being then removed with forceps. The same result may be obtained by means of a sharp spoon, and into the orifice thus enlarged one of the blades of a pair of pvmch forceps, as recommended by Griinwald, is introduced : portions of the bone are then rapidly punched out, and the opening considerably enlarged both downwards and laterally, the greater part of the anterior wall being in this way removed. The cavity is then packed with gauze for twenty-four hours. In the majority of cases this opening tends to contract and close comparatively early. Should it be deemed advisable or necessary to scrape the sinus, the sharp spoon must be employed with care, and mainly in a downward direction, so as to avoid any pressure upon the thin roof of the cavity. Indeed, in all manipulations connected with diagnosis and treatment due care must be exercised in dealing with the upper and outer walls of the sinus. The swabbing of its interior with pure carbolic acid, followed by irrigation at intervals, may greatly improve the patient's condition, and lead to a permanent cure. Griinwald, whose experience in the treatment of sphenoidal sinus disease is considerable, has obtained very satisfactory results. Several of his cases com- pletely recovered in a few weeks, while in none of them did the period of treatment exceed four months. Both Jansen and Luc have opened the sphenoidal sinus through the antrum in cases complicated with disease in that cavity and in the ethmoidal cells. By making a large opening in the canine fossa and resecting the nasal wall along with portions of the middle and inferior turbinated bones, the anterior wall of the sphenoidal sinus was exposed to view and then removed. Nose—Foreign Bodies, etc. Foreign Bodies . . . . .124 Rhinoliths 124 Parasites . . . . .124 Nasal Hydrorrhcea . . .125 Cerebro-spinal Rhinorrhcea . . .125 Etiology. — Foreign bodies may enter the nasal chambers — (1) through the anterior