56 NEW-BORN INFANT hold arrangements are apt to be seriously upset by the presence of any save a most exemplary wet-nurse. Still, in certain cases, as with a premature and weakly infant, and in some forms of infantile diarrhoea, wet-nursing may save the life of the child. Alcoholism and syphilis in the wet-nurse must be excluded, and she ought not to be the subject of tubercle or of epilepsy ; she should be neither pregnant nor menstruating; she should be between the years of twenty-five and thirty-five; and if possible she should be married, or if unmarried she ought not to have had more than one pregnancy. It may be determined roughly that her health is good and her milk in a satisfactory state by inspecting her own baby; if it be well nourished and free from disease, it may safely be concluded that she may be trusted with the care of another woman's infant. In most cases, however, if the new-born infant cannot be nursed by the mother, it has to be brought up artificially, i.e. bottle-fed. Although cow's milk does not approximate so closely to human milk in its composition as does the milk of the ass, it is yet found that practically it makes the best substitute for it. For the new- born infant it becomes a matter of the greatest importance that the milk of the cow be made as similar as possible in composition and in digestibility to human milk, and be as free from microbic and other impurities as is the fluid drawn from the mother's breast. In order to carry out these requirements the following preparation of it is necessary. In chemical composition cow's milk contains more nitro- genous material or albuminoids than does mothers milk; it is therefore customary in order to correct this to add water, an equal part, to bring down the excess of albuminoids. Cow's milk also contains less sugar and less fat than mother's, and the addition of water has still further reduced the proportion of these constituents, so that it will now be neces- sary to add cream and sugar (lactose or cane- sugar) to adjust the composition. Further, there is a physiological difference between cow's milk and human milk in that the casein of the former when acted upon by the gastric juice of the infant forms a much firmer and less digestible curd than does that of the latter; this difference is corrected, and the casein-curd is rendered loose and more flocculent by the addition of an alkali such as lime-water, or of a mucilaginous material such as barley-water. These various requirements are met satisfactorily in such a preparation as Meigs' cream mixture, which consists of cream 2 oz., milk 1 oz., lime- water 2 oz., and sugar-water 3 oz. The sugar- water contains 2 j oz. of milk-sugar in a pint of water. As prescribed above, the mixture will be sufficient for four meals for a new-born infant. There are, however, other difficulties in the way of suiting cow's milk to an infant's needs. There is, for instance, the prevention of the entrance of impurities into the milk on its way from the cow to the nursery, and after its arrival in the nursery. To begin with, the cow should be healthy, should at any rate not be tubercular; the attendants in the byre and dairy should be free from all infectious diseases such as scarlet fever and diphtheria; and all the vessels in which the milk is placed should be kept scrupulously clean. As it is found almost impossible in practice to be sure that all these conditions have been obtained, it has be- come a frequent practice to sterilise the milk and so render innocuous any germs of disease which may have gained access to it. This may be done in a rough and ready fashion by boiling the milk, but it is better to use one of the sterilisers, such as Soxhlet's or Arnold's, in which the milk in bottles, closed with cotton- wool plugs is subjected to the influence of steam for half an hour or three-quarters; it will thereafter keep for a long time, and, if kept in stoppered bottles, need only be heated up when required for use. With regard to the bottles in which the milk is given to the infant, the principles which guide us ought to be to obtain a plain flint glass boat-shaped bottle, without projections or irregularities such as would render it difficult of being kept clean, and to use in connection with it no long india- rubber tube, but a simple rubber teat which can be easily inverted for cleansing purposes. Wende has recently given an alarming bacterio- logical demonstration of the dangers which lurk in the long rubber tubes which used to l)e so frequently employed in connection with feeding bottles; and there can be no doubt that the whole apparatus used in infant feeding oiight to be as simple and as easily cleaned as possible. By the methods which have been detailed above it is usually possible to provide a satis- factory substitute for human milk, although it is probable, as has been pointed out by Bartley and others, that there are subtle chemical differences between the milk of the cow and that of the woman which cannot be perfectly adjusted. When, however, the infant to be fed is weakly or premature, then these im- adjusted differences make their influence felt, and persistent indigestion, gastric or intestinal, or both, is the result. Under such circum- stances peptonised cow's milk will sometimes be successful: 3 grs. of Benger's peptonising powder are to be added to 2 oz. of milk and 2 oz. of boiling water, the mixture is to be allowed to stand for ten minutes, and then ^ oz. of cream and a pinch of sugar are to be added. The various much-advertised infants' foods, containing starch and large quantities of sugar, are seldom, if ever, to be given to the new-born infant, although they find a sphere of usefulness in connection with children of more than six months. If all means