174 OPHTHALMO-REACTION proving, and a negative reaction in excluding, the presence of tuberculosis. Ophthalmoscope. See Eye, Clini- cal Examination of ; Refraction ; Retina and Optic Xerve {Retina, Ophthalmoscopic Appear- ances) ; Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechan- ism {Eye, Anatomy, Examination of). Ophthalmoscopy.—The examination of the interior of the eye by means of the ophthalmoscope. See Retina and Optic Nerve (Retina, Ophtlialmoscopic Appearances). Ophthalmotrope. — An instrument for showing the direction and position of the eye under the action of each of its muscles. OpianiC Acid.—An acid obtained (along with cotarnine) from the oxidation of narcotine. See Opium. OpiO-. — In compound words opio- (Gr. oVds, juice) means relating to opium (the juice of the poppy); e.g. opiomania (morphinomania, ij.v.), opiophagism (opium-eating), opiophilous (loving opium), etc. Opisthion.—The middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum ; a term used in craniology. OpisthorchiS. See Parasites {Hel- minths, Trema todes). Opisthotonos. — An arched condition of the body due to bending back of the head and lower limbs, observed in tetanus, epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis, etc. See Hysteria {Hysterical Convulsions) ; Meningitis, Posterior Basic {Symptoms); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebrospinal {Symp)toms) ; Spasm ; Tetanus {Clinical Features); Tetany {Motor Symptoms); Toxicology {Alkaloids, Strychnine). Opium. See also Alcoholism {Diagnosis) ; Analgesics and Anodynes ; Aphrodisiacs ; Appetite {Disordered) ; Asphyxia {Causes); Brain, Surgery of {Comj^ression, Diagnosis); Morphinomania ; Peritonitis, Acute ; Phar- macology : Temperature {Depression); Toxi- cology {Alkaloids, Opium).—The milky exuda- tion obtained by incision of the unripe capsules of the white poppy, or Papaver somniferum, a plant native to Asia but also grown in other countries. The juice thus obtained is inspis- sated by evaporation, and, when dried and powdered, should contain from 9■■5 to 10'5 per cent of morphine. The chemical composition of this drug is very complex, the alkaloids which have been obtained from it numbering at least eighteen. Most of them are in com- bination with meconic acid or sulphuric acid, but some are free. The most important are morphine, codeine, nai-cotine, thebaine, narceine, papaverine, pseudomorphine, and laudanine. j The dose of powdered opium is ^-2 grs. The pireparations are as follows: — 1. Tinctura Opii, known as laudanum. Standardised to contain '75 per cent of anhydrous morphine. Strength of opium, 1 in 13^. Dose—20-30 m. for a single administration; 5-15 m. if repeated. 2. Tinctura Opii Ammomata. " Scotch paregoric." Contains ammonia, benzoic acid, and oil of anise. Strength, 1 in 88. Dose—\ -1 5- 3. Tinctura Camphorse Composita. Paregoric. Contains benzoic acid, camphor, and oil of anise. Strength, 1 in 219. Dose—1-1 3. 4. Extractum Opii Liquidum. Strength, 1 in 14. Dose— 5-30 m. 5. Extractum Opii. Standardised to contain 20 per cent of morphine. Strength, 1 in \. Dose — \ -\ gr. 6. Pulvis Cretse Aromaticus cum Opio. Strength, 1 in 40. Dose—10 - 40 grs. 7. Pulvis Ipecacuanhee Compositus. Dover's powder. Strength, 1 in 10. Dose — 5-15 grs. 8. Pulvis Opii Com- positus. Strength, 1 in 10. Dose—2-10 grs. 9. Pulvis Kino Compositus. Strength, 1 in 20. Dose—5-20 grs. 10. Pilula Saponis Composita. Strength, 1 in 5. Dose—2-4 grs. 11. Pilula Plumbi cum Opio. Strength, 1 in 8. Dose— 2-4 grs. 12. Pilula Ipecacuanhse cum Scilla. Strength, 1 in 20. Dose—4-8 grs. 13. Sup- positoria Plumbi Composita. Contains lead acetate. Strength, 1 gr. in each. 14. Lininientum Opii. Strength, 1 in 27. 15. Emplastrum Opii. Strength, 1 in 10. 16 Unguentum Gallee cum Opio. Strength, 1 in 13^. Some of the non-official preparations of opium must be mentioned. 1. Nepenthe (Anodyne Tincture) is the same strength as laudanum, and is given in similar doses. The advantages claimed for it are probably some- what overstated, but in practice it proves a most useful preparation. 2. Sydenham's laudanum (Tinctura Opii Crocata) is the same strength as laudanum. It is little used. 3. Black drop (Acetum Opii Crocatum) is four times as strong as laudanum. It is used chiefly in mining districts. 4. Vinum Opii is given in doses of 10-30 m. 5. Liquor Opii Sedativus or Battley's Sedative Solution is comparable to Extractum Opii Liquidum. It is extremely popular with some physicians. 6. Acetum Opii, average dose 8 m. 7. Opium Deodoratum is opium deprived of narcotine. Dose—1-2 grs. 8. Rapine, a proprietary preparation, is said to contain the anodyne principles of opium without the narcotic and convulsive properties. MoRPHiN.E Hydrochloridum. — Morphine hydrochloride; Hydrochlorate of morphine. A white powder, consisting of minute cubical crystals; soluble 1 in 24 of water, 1 in 50 of alcohol, 1 in 8 of glycerin. Dose—\ - \ gr. Preparations—1. Liquor Morphinse Hydrochlo- ridi. Strength, 1 per cent. Do-ie—10-60 m. 2. Tinctura Morphinje et Chloroformi Composita. Similar in composition to the popular Chloro- dyne. Strength, — gr. in 10 m. Dose—