PARALYSIS 290 increase of the ethereal sulphates found. He considers that this is what might be expected from the breaking up of toxic materials in the intestines and their elimination as sulphates. An ethereal extract was isolated from the stools in this case, and 1 gramme injected into rabbits and guinea-pigs produced a paralysis which gradually disappeared in forty-eight hours. The nature of this poison has not been ascertained. Duration and Frequency of Attacks. — The length of the attacks varies considerably, but may be said to last between ten and forty-eight hours. The frequency of the attacks also varies greatly, and at times they may occur almost daily, in other cases they may be repeated every week or month, while in others there may not be more than one attack a year. Patients with this affection are probably subject to attacks during the whole of their life; on the other hand, in Taylor's family the attacks were said to grow less frequent as life advanced, and finally to have disappeared entirely between forty and fifty. Morbid Anatomy.—No post-mortem has been made on any one of these cases, and it is hardly to be expected that any change gross enough to be visible by the present microscopical methods would be found. Small pieces of muscle have been removed and examined microscopically, and increased diameter of individual fibres, vacuolation, and waxy degeneration have been found. Pathology.—The pathology of the disease is most obscure, as Westphal says: "We know neither a disease of the spinal cord nor of the spinal nerves in which anything of like nature has been observed." It has been suggested that a poison similar in action to curare is formed within the body, but even in curare poisoning the muscle retains its mechanical irritability. Even if one accepts the theory that the condition is produced by some auto- toxin, such as has been found to be present in the stools by Craft, and on injection into animals gave rise to a transient paralysis, one is still in a difficult position to explain on what part of the nervous or muscular system such a poison acts. It can hardly be a general muscular poison acting directly on the muscles, for then one would not expect the muscles of the face to escape; and, again, the onset of the paralysis and its ascending character is strikingly like that seen in Landry's paralysis. On the other hand, if the toxin acts on the lower motor neurone, it is impossible to conceive how such a lesion could give rise so rapidly to such a profound change in the muscles that they should fail to respond both to a faradic and galvanic stimulus. The same objection applies to a periodic vascular disturb- ance of the cord, such as has been suggested by Westphal. If, then, one supposed the condition to be dependent on an autotoxin, the poison must be regarded as acting not only on the lower neurone, but also on the muscle directly; whether the vascular condition of the cord has any influence on the selective action, which the toxin seems to exert, must remain doubtful, but it seems not improbable that such a factor may, however, exert some such influence. Diagnosis.—In a case seen for the first time, and without a definite history of previous attacks, the diagnosis of Landry's paralysis might with justice be made; on the other hand, when the disease occurs in a typical form with a history of previous attacks, the diagnosis presents no difficulty. Some authors have allied the condition with the dystrophies, and the change found in the muscles and the permanent weakness of some groups of muscles, as described in certain cases, would seem to support such a suggestion. The course of the disease is, however, entirely against such a view. It has also been suggested that it is a condi- tion allied to congenital myotonia (Thomsen's Disease ; see vol. vi. p. 487). Prognosis.—The disease seems to have no tendency to diminish the duration of life. Most patients seem to be liable to attacks during the whole of their life, but in others a tendency to recover has been noted about middle life. Treatment.—No treatment is known which will produce any result. Quinine has been given in some cases with good effect, but in others it has had no influence. Landry's Paralysis.—Many writers now in- clude this affection, otherwise known as " acute ascending paralysis," in their accounts of peri- pheral neuritis, from which it is undoubtedly difficult to distinguish some of the cases. In like manner there may be a close resemblance to acute poliomyelitis ; but the clinical picture in other cases is so different from that of the ordinary forms of either of these affections, that until we have more proof that all the cases can be accounted for by peripheral neuritis or polio- myelitis, it is well to give this symptom-complex a separate description. Definition.—The characteristics of the malady have been supposed to be rapidly progressive motor paralysis, which usually commences in the lower extremities and mounts upwards, and which, when it reaches the muscles of respiration, causes death by asphyxia; the muscles preserve their nutrition, and respond normally on elec- trical stimulation, and cutaneous sensibility and tlie sphincters remain intact. Etiology.—Men are attacked a good deal more frequently than women, the relative proportion being about three to one. Although most common between the ages of twenty and forty, it oversteps these limits, and is met with both in older people and in children. In some cases