73 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE tlie muscles may cause the soft palate to rise, preventing all view of the nasopharynx. This may often be overcome by explaining to the patient that he is not required to do anything but open his mouth and breathe in the ordinary way. If this fails, one of the following devices may be tried, viz. : (1) Direct the patient to sniff up gently through the nose ; (2) make him pronounce a nasal sound, such as the French word " on " or the English " hang " ; (3) cause him to make a snoring noise; (4) instruct him to take a succession of short, sharp, gasping inspirations. When it is impossible to cause relaxation of the palate by these means, or in cases in which there is not sufficient space between the velum and the posterior pharyngeal wall even when the palate is relaxed, that organ should be drawn forwards with White's palate- hook.i This instrument is made of a square Fig. 3.—Method of holding the self-retaining palate hook and : previous to an examination of the nasopharynx. steel bar about 3 millimetres thick, terminating in a loop of pure silver wire, heavy enough to hold the palate and yet light enough to be changed in shape by the fingers if required. On the bar slides the attachment which clamps ■over the upper lip and holds the retractor in position. This sliding attachment with two arms requires no fixation to keep it in position, the tension being alone sufficient to make it im- movable. For greater security, however, in performing an operation, a small fixation screw is added. The mode of application is as follows: —The hook is held between the thumb and first two fingers in the manner shown in Fig. 3, and a rhinoscopic mirror, previously warmed, is grasped between the last two fingers and the palm. The tongue being held down by an angular depressor in the left hand, the hook is ' See articles by the author, " A Recent Improvement in Posterior Rhinoscopy" {British Medical Journal, January 12, 1889), and "Further Remarks on the Self- retaining Palate-Hook " (ihid., June 28, 1890). introduced well behind the velum, and the patient being told to close his lips around the hook, without biting it, and inspire through the nose, the clamp is pushed rapidly forward with the second finger of the right hand until the loops are pressed firmly into the depressions on either side of the nose, where they remain. The already warmed mirror can then immedi- ately be employed to view the naso-pharynx. The patient should be directed to breathe deeply during the examination. Removal of the hook is accomplished by catching and drawing backwards with the finger the xmder part of the sliding attachment. By adopting this plan the hook need only be kept in for a very short time for a simple examination. Cocaine is usually required, but may often be dispensed with for a simple inspection when the palate is weak and the patient not very sensi- tive. The cocaine is best applied by in- jecting into either nostril, with a small syringe, a few drops of a 10 per cent solution, and holding the patient's head well back so as to let it run over the velum. For examination of the naso- pharynx the hook is invaluable, as it renders narrowness of the post-palatal cleft no impediment. Other advantages are that a large-sized mirror (one having a diameter of |-| of an inch) can usually be employed; the illumination of the parts is consequently brighter, and as j there is a larger field of vision the differ- ent structures are more easily recognised. II The view of the anterior and posterior i ///' walls of the cavity is also less foreshort- ened ; indeed, for anatomical reasons, no inspection by rhinoscopy of the posterior wall can, as a rule, be considered complete '^"^ unless some means are used for drawing forward the palate. A little practice on the part of the surgeon enables the hook to be em- ployed in almost any adult case at the first sitting. The posterior wall of the naso-pharynx may also be examined directly, often up as high as the pharyngeal bursa, by inserting the palate- hook loosely, tilting its distal end well up, and throwing back the patient's head as far as possible. Other palate-hooks have been devised, but this, as far as I have seen, is the most practical one. Some authors also recommend that the palate be drawn forward by rubber tubing inserted through the nasal cavities. (c) Palpation. — Indirect palpation with a probe has already been mentioned; direct palpation with the finger may be anterior or postei-ior. Anterior palpation is done by in- serting the little finger through the vestibule. The anterior part of the septum and inferior and middle turbinated bodies can be reached by this method. Posterior palpation, by inserting the finger into the nasopharynx, is a proceeding more frequently employed.