NEURASTHENIA 38 brain itself, in other cases it is the spinal nerves that fail prominently; in a third and large group both cerebral and spinal sub-systems are at fault. The individual is either incapable of ordinary exertion of mind and muscle, or he has broken down in both directions under unusual stress. Therefore we have the cerebral, the spinal, and the cerebro-spinal subdivisions of neurasthenia. In not a few cases the failure is most marked in the nerves of organic life; and finally, there is the group in which it is chiefly seen in the nerves of the sexual organs. But after indicating these varieties, it remains true that there is in most cases a certain pro- found unity which links all the cases of nerve weakness more or less together. No one important set of nerves can fail in its power of repair and in its consequent power of work without its failure being, as a rule, and in a measure, felt or reflected by every part of the nervous system. All the better behaved and more normally acting neurones hold their propriety of conduct, i.e. their power of repair, on a more insecure tenure when neighbouring and related groups of neurones are gravely out of order. " If one member suffers, all the members suffer with it," is true, broadly but not absolutely, of the nervous system. The cerebral type, however, is not rarely seen in men and women who show no trace of muscular weakness. They can walk, climb mountains, cycle long distances day by day, with no more fatigue than other people, but they cannot accept responsibility, and they cannot even apply their minds continuously to any one subject, active attention being one of the latest acquired mental powers, and one of the first to be lost. If these people attempt to take respons- ible work they cannot sleep, and, with loss of sleep, temper and self-control quickly suffer. Very often such a man cannot endure anything like a crowd, especially an enclosed crowd. He dare not go to church, or to a theatre or concert, or to an evening party. He suffers from " claus- trophobia." Another patient of the same type has a horror of open places ; he will do anything to avoid having to walk across a market-place, or even down a wide staircase. He has "agora- phobia." Morbid fears of many other kinds are often present. " Anthropophobia," fear of society, of meeting anyone out of the most intimate family circle ; " monophobia," the fear of solitude; "pathophobia," the fear of dis- eases; "pantaphobia," the fear of everything; " mysophobia," the fear of contamination, are among the best known of these morbid fears, but they by no means exhaust the list of the things that neurasthenics dread. A lady known to the writer dared not see the reflec- tion of her own face. The greater part of her life for years was spent in trying to avoid the risk of meeting by accident a looking-glass, or of turning inadvertently to- wards the plate-glass windows of shops. She was not insane, and she recognised clearly that the horror was an absvird one, but all the same it held her for long in bondage. It is usually said that neurasthenia does not lead to insanity, and in general terms this is true. It is, how- ever, impossible to doubt that the dividing line between chronic delusional insanity or insane obsession combined with impulse, and the con- ditions described above, is not a broad one. Further evidence in this direction is the fact that a good many neurasthenics talk of suicide as a possible thing, though few of them do more than talk of it. Insomnia with them is a con- tinually returning evil, and vertigo is common. There is also frequently preternaturally acute hearing or even aural obsessions. A lady who has been neurasthenic for the greater part of a long lifetime has both aural and visual halluci- nations when she gets in the least below her ordinary poor level of strength. In a recent letter to the writer she says :—" One of my old conditions has at this moment again taken hold of me. A short tune of four bars of poor music is being played by a poor little instrument in the air; if the windows were open it would be in the trees in the garden, and it goes on many times in a minute, quite incessantly, till another such little tune takes its place. When I wake in the morning it will wake with me, a wretched little ghost of a tune I have never heard before. This has gone on ever since my last illness, robbing me of the pleasure I used to have in going through in my mind real fine music I had heard from the best artists. Once when ill I heard a fine band playing in a field near, but after a few weeks when the illness ended the band ended too. I see some odd things still, but I am glad to say I no longer see de- capitated heads of hideous men floating in the air." This lady is perfectly conscious that the things she hears and sees are illusions ; she is a woman of great intelligence, of many gifts and mental activities, and she is not self-absorbed. The main type of her neurasthenia is spinal; she can take no exercise at all without being con- spicuously the worse for it, but when she is ill she gets indications of the failure of the cells of the special senses to function in an orderly way. Her case is specially instructive, as four of her five children are, like their mother, spinal neur- asthenics in spite of possessing unusual mental powers. Two of the three sons have been obliged all through life to limit most strictly their amount of exercise. They were each in succession taken away from public schools by the advice of the school doctor because " the games were killing them." By dint of great care in the avoidance of muscular fatigue they have done well in their respective callings, but if they try to live like other people they lose their sleep and cease to be able to digest. One is now in the Royal Engineers, one an author of