53 NEW-BORN INFANT the new-born there is an encapsulated mass of fat, the so-called "sucking pad." The rectum is large, more vertically placed, and more nearly a straight portion of the intestine than in the adult. In the skeleton, also, there are numerous peculiarities due to the incomplete stage of ossification which has been reached. The cranial vault bones, for instance, have not yet united along the lines of the sutures, and at six points a considerable membranous interval intervenes between the adjacent bones; these membranous intervals are known as fontanelles, and are dis- tinguished as anterior (which is large, quad- rangular, and has four sutures running into it), posterior (which is much smaller, triangular, with three sutures running into it), and four less important lateral fontanelles. Some of the long bones only, as the femur, show centres of ossification in their epiphyses. The ramus of the lower jaw makes with the body of that bone a more oblique angle than in the child ; and the auditory meatus is imperfectly developed at birth. The segments of the sacrum and coccyx are not fused together into one bone in the new- born infant; and the spinal column has not yet any fixed curves. Physiological Peculiarities.—The physiology of the new-born infant, like its anatomy, is tran- sitional in its character: it resembles in many details the physiology of the child and adult, but it also shows evident traces of the functional peculiarities of the foetus. Birth is the more or less traumatic transition from an existence in the fluid medium of constant or nearly constant temperature, in the dark, and protected from external violence, into a life in an atmospheric medium of a temperature lower than that of the body, in the light, and with no natural pro- tection from injury. Birth, therefore, entails readjustment of function; and readjustment of function is a leading character of the physiology of the new-born infant. Further, neonatal physi- ology has peculiarities impressed upon it by the fact that during the first few days of life the infant is recovering from the effects of its passage through the maternal birth-canals, a process often truly traumatic. The circulation of the new-born, for instance, shows this re- adjustment. With the ligaturing of the cord the placental circulation stops and the pulmo- nary becomes more fully established, a change accompanied by the physiological closure of the ductus arteriosus, the foramen ovale, and the vessels connected with the umbilical circulation. The pulse-rate, which has been from 130 to 140 beats per minute in the foetal life, remains high, but not quite so high as before birth, varying from 120 to 140; the rate is little affected by posture. The arterial tension is said to be low, for the width of the aorta is greater in com- parison with the volume of the heart than in later infancy. It has often been stated that sphygmograms of the new-born infant's pulse simply consist of slightly undulating lines; but this statement does not always hold, for Dr. H. Oliphant Nicholson has taken tracings from infants less than a week old in which there was not only a sharp apex, but also distinct tidal and dicrotic wavelets. The pulse-rate is to the respiration rate as 3-|- or 4 :1. The com- position of the blood of the new-born also shows transitional characters. It contains a higher percentage of hgemogiobin ; in five infants ex- amined by Carstanjen it remained above 100° till after the twelfth day of life. It contains a large number of red blood corpuscles in the cubic millimetre (six to seven millions); this character holds for the first four or five days, as does also the presence of some nucleated red cells (till the third day, according to Carstanjen). It has a greater coagulability, and shows marked leuco- cytosis. The leucocytes are of several kinds : at first the polynucleated ones are most numer- ous ; after the first twenty-four hours the lymphocytes increase in number, and become equal to the polynucleated leucocytes about the sixth day; transitional forms are also specially mumerous between the sixth and ninth days ; eosinophilic cells are not markedly numerous. The pulmonary respiration of the new-born is not usually established fully till the infant has been expelled from the maternal passages and the cord tied and cut, and for some days after- wards the lungs are not completely expanded in every part. It is excited to begin partly by the venous condition of the blood due to the stoppage of the placental circulation and partly by cutaneous stimulation. It is chiefly ab- dominal in type, and has a rate of from 30 to 50 respirations per minute, but it has a teii- dency to be irregular in rate and variable in character. Although urine may be secreted in foetal life, and may even be expelled into the liquor amnii, usually it is not till after birth that it comes to be secreted with the regularity of a function and expelled periodically from the bladder. Micturition in the new-born infant is quite involuntary, and occurs from six to twenty times in the twenty-four hours. The urine is colourless, as may be learned from the fact that it leaves no stain on the diapers : it is odourless, has a low specific gravity, an acid reaction, and not infrequently contains albumin during the first few days of life. Uric acid is always present, but urea is absent or in small amount. In foetal life the sebaceous glands of the skin secrete freely, with the result that at birth the infant is covered with a greasy coat- ing, the vernix caseosa, which consists largely of sebum mixed with epidermic scales and lanugo hairs; after birth the sebaceous glands continue to be active, but the sudoriparous do not secrete much if at all for some time. A j fine desquamation of the cuticle takes place during the first week of neonatal life, and the I colour of the skin is often yellow (physiological