OBESITY 140 enormous quantities of albuminous food, fat, and carbohydrates. While the subcutaneous cellular tissue in the latter is firm and granular, elastic, and hard to touch, in anaemia it appears flaccid, soft, loose, and is readily pinched into folds " (Oertel). The 'pathological relations of obesity are many and complex. Some are directly due to the pressure and interference with normal nutrition of the fatty deposits amongst the muscular fasciculi of the heart and other muscles. Serious loss of power in the cardiac muscle is thus induced. Some are doubtless due to the same faulty habits of life as have led to the obesity. Obese persons are well known to bear acute disease and surgical operations badly, their power of resistance to depressing influences is diminished, and for this reason, as well as on account of their proneness to such diathetic diseases as gout and diabetes, they are generally regarded as unfavourable lives for assurance, and assurance companies invariably charge an augmented premium in cases of excessive obesity. When the obese become the subjects of the acute infective fevers they are apt to assume an adynamic form. The cardiac feebleness in- creases rapidly with the fever, and there is danger of sudden fatal collapse. Again, owing to the amount of subcutaneous fat, the heat formed in the anterior of the body is with difficulty dissi- pated, and the risk of fatal hyperpyrexia thereby increased, while such patients bear antipyretic drugs badly. Convalescence from acute disease is slow and not unattended with danger. The tendency to cardiac feebleness and de- generation brings with it serious tendencies to pulmonary congestion, emphysema, and bronchial catarrh; nocturnal attacks of cardiac asthma are frequent, and degenerative changes in the coronary arteries are attended with a proneness to attacks of angina pectoris. The general arter^io-sclerosis so commonly found associated with certain forms of obesity, and not infrequently accompanied with renal changes of a gouty character, brings in its train the risk of cerebral apoplexy. An enlarged liver, in part from fatty deposits and in part from passive hyperaemia due to cardiac debility, is a common accompaniment of excessive obesity. Glycosuria, together with symptoms of gout, are frequently observed, and the obese are notoriously prone to calculous deposits in the kidneys and gall-bladder. This list by no means exhausts the catalogue of morbid changes to which the obese are prone. Treatment.—Pi-ophylaxis.—It may be desir- able, in dealing with the children who inherit a predisposition to the plethoric form of obesity, to attempt to counteract this tendency by a careful regulation of the diet, excluding from it, so far as practicable, all fat-forming sub- stances. It would be well for such an infant to have a wet-nurse who is known to have no such inherited predisposition, or if suckled by the mother, to see that the mother's diet is freed from all excess of fat-producing food, and especially from beer. The same observations will, of course, apply to the nurse. If the infant is hand-fed, then sterilised milk should be used to the exclusion of all other kinds of food. If after the period of infancy there is still a marked tendency to the over-production of fat, we should diminish as much as possible the carbohydrates, and butter and foods prepared with fat. We should attend also to the child's general health by inculcating habits of healthy exercise in the open air. Encourage the practice of gymnastics, carefully adapted to the age and strength of the child, and apply whatever other tonic measures may seem expedient to promote a vigorous and healthy action of the organs of circulation. During the period of growth and develop- ment we must watch the nutrition, and we must be especially careful not to reduce the amount of albumin in the body by too great a reduction of fatty substances in the diet, lest by so doing we should retard or diminish muscular develop- ment. Gymnastic exercises may be encouraged if they are carried out with judgment and moderation. In the anmmic form be on the lookout for signs of ansemia in infants, and give suitable preparations of iron (such as the compound syrup of hypophosphites), and establish a dietary having for its object the regulating of fat and albumin formation. Later on gymnastic exercise may be recom- mended, carefully adapted to the muscular development and capacities of the child. In scrofulous cases the saline and chalybeate mineral baths may be useful, or cold ablutions and frictions with sea-water once or twice a day, so as to stimulate powerfully the circulation and increase the power of resistance of the surface to external injurious influences. Dietetic Treatment.—In applying a dietetic method of treatment to cases of obesity each individual case should be made the subject of close study and analysis. In the first place, the patient's weight should be accurately noted. A physical examination of the patient should be made, especially with the object of ascertain- ing the condition of the heart and arteries, the condition of the lungs and liver, and that of the kidneys by the examination of the urine. We should ascertain whether we liave to do with a case of the hereditary or acquired type. An accurate account should be obtained as to food habits, the amount of exercise and sleep taken, and the nature and amount of daily work. The previous history may reveal evidences of gout and glycosuria. It is desirable also to