OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 206 always more or less greasy. The grease may be clear liquid fat. Sometimes the fat forms itself into a large collection of white pills; when mixed with sebaceous material it appears like yellow pomatum. Free hair, loose or in dense, felted balls, is very frequent. From the walls spring, in most dermoids, amorphous masses of bone often bearing teeth, or teeth may be found without bone. The inner lining of the cyst is skin bearing sebaceous and sweat glands. Deeper under the surface, nerve and muscle and many other structures may be found. Teratoma of the ovary, " solid ovarian embry- oma" (Wilms), is an essentially solid growth. It arises in a limited area of the ovary, the remainder of which is often detected in its capsule. Structures derived from all three layers of the blastoderm are found arranged without any regularity; in some cases they simulate an amorphous acardiac foetus. It grows rapidly and is highly malignant, clini- cally speaking, though it does not undergo can- cerous or sarcomatous degeneration. About fifteen genuine cases have been described. Malignancy of Dermoids ar»A Teratoma.—The frequency of sarcomatous or carcinomatous de- generation has been exaggerated, soft connective tissue in a dermoid being often falsely reported as sarcoma (Bland-Sutton). Sanger (Martin, loc. cit. p. 677) finds that true malignant de- generation only occurs when the dermoid has grown large; he reports and figures a case of carcinomatous degeneration of a dermoid (p. 696), and also an instance of cancerous infection of a dermoid from primary disease in the rectum (p. 698). But "epithelial infection" (Bland- Sutton) or "peritoneal implantation" (Fraenkel, Kolaczek), a clinically malignant change where dermoid masses are disseminated over the peri- toneum, is frequently observed. Teratoma in- variably and rapidly spreads beyond the ovary in this manner. Fibroma of the Ovary is relatively frequent about the menopause and in girlhood. When soft, it is often taken to be a sarcoma. A hard and painless tumour in the hypogastrium, moving separately from the uterus, is most probably an ovarian fibroma, especially in a young subject free from cachexia and amenorrhoea. It causes remarkably little pain, is seldom adherent, and is often associated with a moderate amount of ascites. In one case the author found a large ovarian fibroma firmly impacted in the pelvis. The pedicle is usually short and bears large vessels, so that much care is needed in securing it during ovariotomy. It is sometimes twisted without producing any severe symptoms such as are seen in twisted dermoid. Ovariotomy is the only treatment, and is very successful. Myoma of the Ovary is usually small; the author removed a small tumour of this kind where the uterus was free from "fibroids." On section the fibres were seen to be arranged in spherical nodules, like balls of worsted. About a dozen authentic cases have been recorded. Enchondroma. —Areas of cartilage, sometimes ossifying, have been detected between the fibres of an ovarian fibroma. One such tumour weighed over 14 lbs. (Beut, Union Medica, No. 4, 1900). Sarcoma and Carcinoma.—Through careful research, conducted on a large scale in Germany and Austria, pathologists have found that primary sarcoma is rarer in the ovary than primary carcinoma. In 307 cases of malignant tumour in the practice of Olshausen (Kratzen- stein's returns), Leopold, Martin, and Cohn, 69, or only a little over 22 per cent, were sarcomata. These figures and calculations, however, can never be thoroughly verified. Martin insists that endothelioma must be ranked under sarcoma, whilst Bland-Sutton feels certain that many tumours of the ovary described as primary carcinomata prove on careful examina- tion to be sarcomata. Sarcoma may be of the spindle-celled variety, then it is relatively firm, often blended with fibrous tissue, and of somewhat slow growth. This is the kind of tumour so difficult to dis- tinguish from fibroma of the ovary. The round-celled varieties form much softer and more malignant growths. There is also an angiosarcoma of the ovary, and an interesting variety, endothelioma, developed from the endo- thelium of the blood-vessels, or, in a sub- variety, from the endothelium of the lymphatics (Eckardt and Herz). An endothelioma may be firm (Pick), soft (Amann), or cystic (Olshausen). Cystic changes, bleeding and well-known retro- grade conditions, are frequent in sarcoma. Often sarcoma of the ovary is bilateral, more likely from metastasis from one ovary to its fellow than from simultaneous malignant in- fection. Sarcoma often forms a very large tumour which may be regular in outline to the last. Amenorrhoea and ascites tend to appear early. Metastatic deposits usually develop later than in cancer; but cystic sarcoma, especially when developing in a common glandular cyst, is clinically very malignant. The omentum and intestine are specially exposed to infection. Carcinoma appears to be the commoner form of malignant disease of the ovary. It may develop dii-ectly from the epithelial elements in that organ or from the common glandular cyst (malignant adenoma). Papilloma occasionally, but rarely, undergoes cancerous degeneration not to be confounded with implantation of papillomatous growth on viscera and peritoneum. Cancer tissue is often firm at first, but is apt to alter in consistence through the free develop- ment of cystic cavities, which is part of the cancerous process independent of any pre-existing innocent adenomatous cyst. The cancerous