231 PALATE When the gummata have broken down the local treatment consists in combating the sepsis by antiseptic sprays, in employing calomel and boric powder or starch 1 to 4, and in the use of iodoform. Necrosed bone is to be removed {vide "Syphilis of Bone"). Treatment of the Results.—In the soft palate small openings may close of themselves or be closed by operation. Frequently a velum has to be adapted. If there be adhesion to the pharynx the treat- ment depends upon the extent of the stenosis. If partial, it may be left alone. If complete, the palate must be detached from the pharyngeal wall, and re-adhesion prevented by the passage of bougies or by an india-rubber ball, which is inflated after it is placed in position. As regards the treatment of the perforated 2yalate. If the opening be large, the patient must wear an obturator; if it be small, an ob- turator is to be worn for some weeks or months after all traces of the syphilitic manifestations have disappeared, or the patient may plug the opening with gauze, or keep a piece of india- rubber in position over the opening by suction. Operative measures may then be undertaken. Davies Colley's method, or some modification of it, is the most satisfactory. Glanders, actinomi/cosis, and leprosy affect the palate secondarily. TuMOUKS.—Meningoceles may be foimd pro- jecting through the median raphe of the palate. Dermoids are sometimes met with. They may project, according to Bland Sutton, from the buccal or pharyngeal aspect of the soft palate. The tumour is usually composed of connective tissue containing striped muscle and cartilage, sometimes sebaceous material. Skin covers the outside of the mass. Sometimes small bodies composed of an ac- cumulation of epithelium — the so-called epi- thelial pearls—are seen hanging by short thin pedicles in the mouths of infants. They usually occur in the region of the premaxillse. Cysts.—Simple mucous cysts, arising in con- nection with and resembling those met with in the lips, may occur in the palate. Cysts may also arise in the alveolus in connection with the stumps of teeth, and spread to the hard palate. Cystic odontomes may project into the palate. NcBvi are occasionally met with, and are best treated by electrolysis. Traumatic aneurism of the posterior palatine artery has been known to arise from a stab and from injury produced by a dental palate. Papillomata occur most frequently on the alveolus; their most favourite seat is the pala- tine arches. They present no difficulty either as regards their diagnosis or treatment. Lipoma, fibroma, and other tumours are ex- ceedingly rare. Adenomata.—The tumours hitherto described as adenomata are really endotheliomata. They are innocent in character, slow in growth, and encapsuled. At puberty and between forty and fifty are the ages at which they are most common. They are met with in the soft palate more frequently than in the hard; their common site is at the junction of the two, and are said to be more common on the left side. In shape they are round or oval; as a rule they are inelastic, but sometimes there may be cysts in them. The mucous membrane over them may be normal in character; sometimes it is thinned by pressure of the tumour. In the hard palate they may make a pit in the bone, but they do not grow from it. They give rise to no glandu- lar enlargement. They cause no inconvenience, except from their size, and may be present for some time without the patient being aware of their presence. There appears to be reason to believe that they may sometimes, after having been present for a long period, suddenly show a rapid increase in growth, ulcerate, and furnish additional evidence of malignancy by causing lymphatic enlargement. Treatment.—Enucleation, in some cases under cocaine, is all that is necessary, unless there be evidence of malignancy, in which case a more radical operation is imperative. Sarcoma may be of the round or spindle- celled variety. Alveolar sarcoma also occurs. These tumours are distinguished from the endo- theliomata by their rapidity of growth, by their want of definition, although some have been found to be encapsuled, by the glandular en- largement to which they give rise, and by their tendency to early ulceration. They usually affect the junction of the hard and soft palate. Diagnosis.—From gumma and simple tumours. Prognosis in this class of tumours is grave, and they are often beyond the sphere of successful surgical treatment when they come under observation. Treatment.—Free and early removal of the tumours, together with the glands. The opera- tion is usually one of considerable magnitude, and it may be necessary to perform tracheotomy and ligature the external carotid as adjuvants. Malignxint Epithelial Tumours.—This group of tumours may be primary or secondary. When secondary they usually spread to the palate from the tonsil, tongue, or jaws {q.v.). Primary Malignant Epithelial Tumours.— Two varieties are met with—epithelioma and glandular cancer. Epithelioma usually affects the posterior part of the hard or the soft palate. It has the usual character of epithelioma, and can as a rule be easily diagnosed. A tertiary syphilitic ulcer of long duration may give rise to difficulty in diagnosis ; in such cases a piece of the ulcer should be removed and submitted to micro-