PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 563 6. Internal layers of large pyramidal cells. 7. Layer of spindle-shaped cells. B. Fibres.—The relationship of the medul- FlG. 101.—Diagram oi the arrangement of cells in a typical part of the cerebral cortex. (After Ramon y Cajal.) lated fibres to these layers is shown in Fig. 104, B). 1. On the surface is a fibreless layer. 2. Under this is a thin layer of more or less horizontal fibres, the zonal layer. 3. Under this is a thicker irregular layer of fibres, the supra-radiary layer. 4. Next comes a band of fibres often so well developed as to make a white streak in the grey Fig. 102.—Diagram of collateral connections of different parts of the cerebral cortex, a, &, c, pyramidal cells of the cortex, all connected by collateral branches with other parts of the cortex in the same and in the opposite hemisphere, a give off the pyramidal fibres to the cord. (After Ramon y Cajal.) matter. This is the line of Baillarger. In the regions of the calcarine fissure when it is speci- ally marked it is known as the layer of Gennari. 5. Radiary zone. A thick layer of white fibres chiefly passing to and from the subjacent white substance. It should be remembered that the layer of stellate cells lie just outside Baillarger's layer of fibres. Fig. 101 shows the way in which the den- drites of these cells form a dense plexus at the surface, and the way in which incoming fibres (1) become associated with them. This arrangement is considerably modified in certain regions of the cortex, the large pyramidal cells be- ing best developed in those parts from which the great mass of fibres pass down to the spinal cord, and being- known as the cells of Betz. From the various fibres, collaterals come off which connect different parts of the cortex of the same side, and which also connect the cortex of one side with that of the other, and with the basal ganglia (Fig. 102). Physiology. — 1. General Considerations. — The func- tions of the cerebrum may be best understood by first contrasting the condition of animals with, and of animals without, this part of the brain. (1) In the frog the cerebral lobes may easily be removed. The animal sits in its characteristic attitude. When touched it jumps, when thrown into water it swims. It is a perfect reflex machine. SULCUS CENTRALI PAR. OC. Fig. 103.—A shows the chief convolutions on the outer aspect (front to right), and B on the inner aspect (front to left) of a cerebral hemisphere. with the power of balancing itself unimpaired. But it differs from a normal frog in moving only when directly stimulated, and in showing no signs of hunger or of thirst. A worm