77 NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM Occasionally irritation in the antrum of High- more is caused by such pressure of a spur; while many a case of obstinately recurring poly- pus proves rebellious until such an obstruction is removed. Similarly, paroxysmal sneezing and asthma may be ascribed to stenosis of the fossae. The treatment is necessarily surgical, and the removal of ridge or spur must be carried out boldly. The handiest instrument for most cases is Bosworth's saw, which serves equally well for bone and cartilage. The destruction of mucous membrane entailed is of little con- sequence provided it is not removed too freely from the anterior part of the triangular carti- lage ; and it is of no great consequence if a perforation of the septum is inadvertently pro- duced. When the growth of cartilage is so far forward as to block the vestibule it is preferable, when possible, to save the mucous membrane. This can be effected by turning up a flap with the raspatory and slicing away the cartilage beneath. The disadvantage of a scar in this situation lies in the fact that the mucus tends to dry and adhere to it, thus causing a good deal of irritation and often epistaxis in the act of cleaning the nostrils, whether with the finger or by blowing. For simple deviations without definite ridges various procedures have been advocated, the only satisfactory operation being that of Dr. Asche of New York. It consists in making a stellate incision over the deviation with scissor- forceps devised for the purpose, and then with a special instrument seizing each triangular piece and fracturing it at its base, thus allow- ing it to lie in a vertical position without the help of splints ; indeed, this is the only way in which a corrected deviation can be insured against returning to its former position as soon as the pressure of retaining splints is removed. Yet even in Asche's operation it is advisable to fix in the nares suitable plugs for two or three weeks. Occasionally small spurs and ridges must be removed with a saw or knife before making the stellate incisions. In all such operations on the septum it is necessary to watch the case during healing on account of the frequency with which the granulations fungate and prevent cicatrisation. The inflammatory affections of the septum consist in hypertrophies of the erectile tissue over the triangular cartilage, which take forms precisely like those found over the inferior turbinals, and sometimes develop even true papillomata,^ and of ulceration and perforation either of cartilage or bony septum. Such ul- cerations are for the most part found over the anterior part of the triangular cartilage, and are due to the long-continued irritation and atrophy of the mucous glands, thus changing the normal membrane into a thin, friable, dry skin, upon which collects and dries the mucus ^ Vide article on " Benign Growths of the Nose." flowing from adjacent parts. In the removal of this inspissated mucus with handkerchief or finger the friable surface is torn, and thus, by a constant repetition of this pi'ocess, ulceration is induced, which in its turn leads to necrosis of the cartilage and perforation. Although this is the ordinary course in the production of a perforation, there is no doubt in my mind that simple catarrhal ulceration of the mucous mem- brane covering the septum also may lead to perforation in regions inaccessible to traumatic influence, and on which the mucus will not actually di'y. Such perforations, it is said, are found sometimes after typhoid, scarlet fever, diphtheria, etc. Syphilis is, of course, the commonest cause of destruction of the bony septum, although by far the majority of per- forations of the cartilage are not syphilitic, as used formerly to be supposed. The treatment of hypertrophy of the erectile tissue must be conducted upon general prin- ciples, removing it with snare or otherwise destroying it with the electric cautery. The ulcerations must also be treated upon common- sense grounds, the prime object being to prevent the accumulation and drying of the mucus over the sore surface. Nothing is better for this purpose than a semifluid zinc or boric acid oint- ment. Occasionally, of course, caustics may be used with advantage, and none is more useful than chromic acid in a 10 per cent solution. Benign Tumours op the Nasal Foss/e The ordinary benign tumours of the nose ai'e comprised under two headings : First, those consisting in hypertrophy of the erectile tissue, and confined for the most part to the inferior turbinals and the anterior part of the septum; a,nd, second, those ordinarily called polypus, which spring from various parts of the ethmoid. All these are unquestionably of inflammatory origin, although in many text-books of surgery they were till lately described as adenomata or myxomata. The former term apparently in- cluded the true hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals, seeing that the mucous glands, to- gether with the other elements, undergo hyper- trophy, while polypus, being oedematous fibroma, was readily mistaken for true myxoma. They are always associated with a catarrhal condition, and undergo fresh increase of size whenever inflammation is set up, whether from the con- traction of cold or from the use of irritating- measures of treatment. (1) Hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals must be distinguished from mere vascular en- gorgements of the venous sinuses. The former always present a more or less lobulated appear- ance, often producing growths of cauliflower-like appearance, so much so, indeed, that they are frequently mistaken for papilloma. On the other hand mere vascular engorgement, although it may attain such size as to fill completely both