55 NEW-BORN INFANT Che child she has taken from the medical at- tendant in a warm flannel wrapper, using care ,hat it be not allowed to fall through her hands )v reason of its slipperiness. The common )ractice of squeezing the breasts to break the )reast - strings must be absolutely forbidden, rhe eyes are first carefully washed, and if there las been a maternal vaginal discharge (gonor- •hoeal or otherwise) during pregnancy it will 3e necessary to instil into each conjunctival lac a drop or two of a 1 per cent solution of litrate of silver, or simply of boiled water or ;aline solution. Then the mouth is to be vashed out with clean water. The cleansing )f the head and body often takes some time on account of the adhesive vernix caseosa; it is )est removed by means of vaseline or a little slean lard ; it ought to be rubbed off' briskly, )eginning at the head and paying special at- .ention to the flexures of the neck and limbs, rhe infant is then put into a warm bath and ileansed with soap and water; thereafter it is .0 be dried lying in the nurse's lap, and it is iustomary to dust some powder, such as fuller's iarth, bismuth, or talc into the folds of the ;kin and around the orifices. Then the cord s wrapped round with antiseptic gauze, and in )rder to keep it in position a flannel binder is ipplied twice I'ound the abdomen and fixed by Pitching. The rest of the infant's clothing con- ;ists of a cambric shirt, a long flannel under- iress supported from the shoulders by tapes, md an overdress with long sleeves either of lannel or muslin ; there should be a diaper of varm towelling held in position by a flannel )inder, and the feet should be protected by vooUen socks, and the head by a shawl. The nfant will then in all probability fall asleep, i,nd should be placed in his crib or at any rate in L place of safety where he will not run the risk )f injury until the mother is ready to receive lim. It may be added that he ought to be jarefully inspected to see that he is not the lubject of any structural abnormalities. Feeding.—After the mother has had a sleep ;he infant ought to be put to the breast; this vill usually be about eight hours after labour. Che first milk or colostrum acts more as a )urgative than as a food for the child, and lelps to unload the intestine of the meconium. *^o other nourishment is generally required mtil the mammary glands begin to secrete the nilk, which will be about twenty-four hours ifter labour; the secretion will be fully estab- ished by the third day. Prior to the com- nencement of regular lactation the infant's Qouth may be washed out with a little boiled vater; there is no need to add to it, as is iustomary, some sugar. In the great majority if cases there is no necessity to supplement the nother's milk with any other food ; it contains 11 the constituents of a perfect food for the irganism at this time of life, and these con- stituents are in perfect combination amounts. At first the infant will be put to the breast with the mother in the horizontal posture, and about the end of the first week she will be able to nurse her child sitting up and leaning slightly forward. She will support the nipple with the index and middle fingers of her disengaged hand so as to control if necessary the flow of milk into the infant's mouth. One breast ought to be used at each lactation, and the breasts should be employed alternately. Regularity in nursing ought to be insisted on from the first, for then habits are easily formed, and much future discomfort may be avoided. During the first week the breast ought to be given every two hours between the hours of 5 A.M. and 11 p.m. ; if trained to it at the beginning, most infants will soon learn to sleep continuously, with possibly a changing of diapers once, from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. From the end of the first week to the end of the neonatal period the nursings should be at intervals of two and a half hours. The infant takes from one and a half to two ounces at each meal, and a total of twelve to sixteen ounces in the twenty-four hours. The breast should not be given simply for the purpose of stopping crying ; sometimes the infant cries from himger—then the cry is strong, and occurs after a period of time has elapsed since the last meal; but in many cases the crying is due to colic, and is accompanied by convulsive movements of the limbs, and then frequent nursing exaggerates the colic and stops the crying only for a few minutes. In order that the mother may have a sufficient supply of milk for her infant it will be necessary for her to take large quantities of milk herself along with strong animal soups and cocoa and gruel; she ought also to have abundant time for rest and sleep, and should be free from household and other worries. Alcohol is an unnecessary part of her diet, unless she have been in the habit of always taking it. The nipples should be carefully washed before and after each nursing. If the normal or maternal method of infant feeding be impossible (by reason of physical disability of the mother, or on account of serious illness, or because the child has been expelled from the uterus prematurely before the mother's mammary glands are prepared to functionate), then a wet-nurse must be employed, or artificial feeding resorted to. Theoretically the ivet-nursing or merceiiary method stands next in value to the normal or maternal, for the infant is being supplied with human milk, albeit the milk of another woman than the mother; but in actual practice there are many difficulties and inconveniencies which conspire to make the method one which is seldom employed. There is the matter of expense; the wet-nurse who is both healthy and of irreproachable morals is a rara avis; and house-