120 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES referred to, and in all cases at once proceed to perform the external operation. When persistent headache, pain referred to the sinus, or localised swelling indicate inefficient drainage, the operation should be urged upon the patient, so as to avoid the danger of orbital or intracranial complications. In proposing the external operation, it is only fair to point out to the patient that slight scarring is in- evitable, and that a certain amount of disfigure- ment may follow, though in many cases this is slight. The surgeon should himself bear in mind that it is sometimes necessary to perform a second operation, and that several fatalities have now been recorded, death being due to an acute septic infection of the cranial bones and meninges following operative interference. In all probability in these cases imperfect drain- age and incomplete removal of the diseased ethmoidal cells led to infection of the frontal diplbe and extension to the cranial contents. With due care in carrying out the operation such an unfortunate termination should be avoided. (i.) Irrigation of the Si7ms through the Ostium Frontale.—Although this is not advocated here as a routine method of treatment, it is necessary for the sake of completeness to refer to the procedure. The preliminary steps consist in snaring all nasal polypi that may be present, and in removing the anterior portion of the middle turbinated bone. To effect the latter Walsham's nasal scissors or Griinwald's forceps are introduced through the nostril, and under the guidance of the eye the attachment of the bone to the outer wall of the nose is divided. This section is made horizontally from before backwards through the thin neck of the bone lying above its more expanded anterior inferior extremity. The loop of a nasal snare is then passed along the incision thus made, and the portion included therein is removed (Fig. 2). All polypi thus brought into view must be dealt with, and by means of the punch forceps and the curette diseased ethmoidal cells are broken down and the passage into the sinus still further opened up. More than one sitting is probably necessary to effect this. After an interval of a few days an attempt should be made to pass the frontal cannida and wash out the sinus {vide Diagnosis, p. 112). A weak solution of boracic acid is useful for this purpose, and at first daily irrigation of the cavity may be practised with it. (ii.) The External Operation. — It is very necessary, as a preliminary and important stage of the radical treatment, to thoroughly remove from the nose all diseased tissue that is access- ible, along with the middle turbinated bone, some days prior to the major operation. Both eyebrows are shaved and the skin of the forehead carefully disinfected on the evening before the operation. The removal of both eyebrows, even in unilateral affections, is mainly for cosmetic reasons, as equality in the new growth of hair is thus ensured. Occasionally, too, in the course of the operation it has been found necessary to open both sinuses. It is unnecessary to interfere with the hair of the head, as during the operation it is covered with a sterilised or antiseptic towel. Boracic lotion alone should be employed during the operation, so as to avoid any injury to the eyes by the use of stronger solutions. A general anaesthetic is administered through a Junker's inhaler. Throat sponges and a gag should be held in readiness. Herbert Tilley recommends plugging of the posterior nares in order to prevent the passage of blood into the larynx; but this procedure is not essential. Very satisfactory access to the sinus, along with the least possible disfigurement, is obtained, in most cases, through the eyebrow incision. Should this be found insufficient at a later stage of the operation, a vertical cut may be made upwards from its inner end in the line of one of the natural furrows or wrinkles. The in- cision is commenced at the inner end of the supra-orbital margin at a point corresponding to the position of the fronto-nasal suture (Fig. 3). Thence it is carried upwards and out- wards to the supra-orbital notch following the curve of the bone. An incision of this length readily admits of the sinus being opened in the majority of cases. It can be prolonged out- wards at a later stage if the size of the sinus should render this necessary. It is difficult to avoid injury to the supra-orbital nerve and artery even when the sinus is of average size. All the structures are divided down to the bone, and bleeding is arrested. The soft parts, in- cluding the periosteum, are then raised and pulled upwards by a blunt hook or small re- tractor. The portion of the anterior sinus wall thus exposed lies immediately above the root of the nose, and occupies the interval between the mesial plane of the forehead and the most internal part of the supra-orbital margin (Fig. 3). If there is any doubt about the presence of a sinus or its size, or the position of the interven- ing septum, the area above described offers the surest site for entering the cavity. The thick- ness of the bone varies in different cases, but it is readily removed with a small chisel and mallet. The mucous lining of the cavity then shows itself as a dark blue membrane readily recognisable as such, whether in a healthy or diseased condition. In this respect it presents a distinct contrast to the white appearance of the dura mater. It may be noted further, that in the event of there being no sinus, the dura mater is not reached by chiselling until con- siderably more bone has been removed than what usually constitutes the anterior wall of a sinus in the majority of European skulls. When the raucous membrane has been exposed it is incised and a bent probe is introduced, so