472 PHARYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS tive lesion in the nose, this must be removed. A nasal or post-nasal discharge may be treated by syringing through the nostrils a solution con- taining a tea-spoonful of the following powder: pulv. sodse bicarb., pulv. sodte bibor., aa 3iij, pulv. sacchar. alb. siij, to half a tumbler of warm water. A spray consisting of menthol gr. xx, euca- lyptol l\xl, in an ounce of paroleine, may be ordered for the nose and naso-pharynx, and is useful when the pharyngitis is part of a post- nasal catarrh. When the tonsils, or the lateral folds, or the lymph follicles are so enlarged as to materially assist in the persistency of the pharyngitis, and other remedies have been found inefficient, then these structures must be dealt with by more active measures. A diseased tonsil, without being enlarged, and even when hidden between the pillars of the fauces, may play a very im- portant part in a chronic pharyngitis, and is very liable to be overlooked as an exciting cause. Upon drawing back the anterior pillar a shrunken tonsil may be found inflamed and its follicles plugged, the treatment of which, either by enucleation or the galvano-cautery, has in my experience resulted in a cure of a pharyngitis which has resisted every other mode of treat- ment. When a tonsil is materially enlarged it can, of course, be removed by the guillotine, but the wisdom of doing so whilst it is acutely inflamed is doubtful. The enlarged lateral folds can be reduced by the cautery; some have advocated excision with the knife. Although it may be a disputed point whether the hypertrophied tissues and lymph follicles on the posterior wall of the pharynx can account for the pain and suffering that at times accom- pany their presence, there can be no difference of opinion amongst those experienced in the treatment of granular pharyngitis about the relief afforded by the destruction of these hyper- trophied follicles. The treatment of granular or hypertrophic pharyngitis consists essentially in the destruction of these hypertrophied struc- tures. This is most effectively done with the galvano-cautery. The surface of the pliarynx is wiped dry, and a 10 per cent solution of cocaine or eucaine is applied with a pledget of cotton-wool to the particular follicles to be attacked. It is better not to cauterise too many follicles in close proximity; it is also as well to keep as far as possible to one side of the pharyngeal wall at one sitting. A small round cautery point is heated to a dull red and plunged in the centre of the follicle. A white slough forms and falls off in about a week, when other follicles may be dealt with. In pharyngitis sicca, or atrophic pharyngitis, a good deal can be done for the patient's com- fort by the removal of the accumulated dried adherent mucus in the naso-pharynx and the nose itself. This can be effected by an alkaline nasal douche and throat spray. The recurrence of these accumulations I have found to be checked, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx improved by being somewhat vigor- ously rubbed with swabs of cotton-wool soaked in a solution containing iodine gr. iij, iodide of potassium gr. xv, carbolic acid gr. iij, glycerine 5j, water to ij. The strength of this solution may be increased. There is one important point in the treatment of pharyngitis which is more liable than any other to escape attention, and that is the necessity for obtaining for the pharynx as much rest as possible—not only in keeping from it irritating articles of food, and interdicting alcohol and tobacco, and enjoining fresh air and the avoid- ance of foul atmospheres, but more especially in impressing upon the patient the necessity of forgetting his throat. That constant effort to clear the throat, to get rid of an imaginary foreign body, or to remove mucus or saliva, necessitates a continuous working of the pha- ryngeal muscles, and explains the aching and dragging sensations referred to the throat and lower part of the neck. Many subjects of chronic pharyngitis are also mouth-breathers by night, if not by day, so that the mucous membrane is irritated continuously in one way or another day and night. Rest is most essential for healing, and rest for this region is most difficult to obtain. Chronic Infective Diseases Syphilis . . . . . . .472 Tuberculosis . . . . . .473 Lupus . . . . . . .474 Leprosy ....... 474 Rhinoscleroma . . . . .474 Syphilis.—Of the chronic infectious diseases syphilis is the one most prone to attack the fauces and pharynx, and at all stages of the disease. It may present as a primary chancre, as an erythema of the fauces, as mucous patches, as superficial ulceration, as gummatous deposits followed by deep ulceration, or it may leave evidence of its past activity in the form of cicatrices, destruction, and deformity. Primary infection of the fauces is of rare occurrence; cases, when it occurs, are usually recorded, but the precise manner of infection is not always easy to ascertain. The tonsils, especially when hypertrophied, have commonly been the site of infection. The chancre here usually covers a larger area than on the penis ; the corresponding lymphatic glands become in- durated. The condition is liable to be confused with epithelioma; treatment and the appearance of a secondary rash will clear up the diagnosis. Erythema of the fauces is a common manifesta- tion of the secondary stage, and gives rise to so little inconvenience that it commonly escapes