200 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE ovum and the involution of the ovisac into a corpus luteum are well known. These active changes slowly disappear during the menopause. Absence or extreme arrest in development of the ovaries involves sterility, with distinct but not very definite modifications in general sexual characteristics. Destructive disease of the ovaries, such as the inflammation and inter- stitial haemorrhages which occur during certain exanthemata, have been known to produce the same effects. The results of alleged complete removal of the ovaries by operation are less definite. As a rule, sterility and all the symp- toms of the climacteric follow, with speedy or gradual disappearance of the sexual appetite. But in other cases sterility is the sole conse- quence, the period persisting, the sexiial appetite is often increased, or even develops when the patient was previously frigid. Uterine fibroids, especially when limited to the upper part of the uterus, often decrease in size after removal of the ovaries, but sometimes remain quite unaff'ected and grow larger. Clinical records of removal of the ovaries must, however, be accepted with great reserve, particularly in relation to physiology. For it is not always certain that all ovarian tissue is removed at the operation. This tissue often runs along the ovarian ligament close up to the uterus, so that some is left behind when the tube is amputated, unless the pedicle be cut danger- ously short—a surgical error which the operator instinctively avoids. There can be no doubt that the ovary eliminates some product which has a general effect on the economy. "Ovarian oophotherapy" has, however, as yet given very uncertain results. Dalche, whose reports seem the most trustworthy, gives cachets consisting of a grain and a half of fresh ovarian tissue from the sheep. One or two are given daily at first; three are, as a rule, quite enough later on. His results are not very definite ; thus he cured a chlorotic young work-girl of anaemia, but amenori'hoea, which had not existed before, set in with the treatment. The phosphates in the urine were greatly increased ; this is interest- ing, as removal of the ovaries arrests mollities ostium and checks the elimination of phosphates. In Fosbery's case climacteric flushing was suc- cessfully treated by 5-grain palatinoids of ovarian gland given three times daily; Dalche claims similar experiences. Martin {loc. cit.) and Kippenberg report that fourteen out of thirty cases of double ovariotomy were " benefited " by this treatment, but they remain sceptical, and admit that the extract often causes dyspepsia, and that the "cure" may be by suggestion.^ 1 There is no evidence that any of the fourteen would have suffered from the loss of both ovaries. Ferr6 and Bastian find that a glycerine and water extract acts pliysiologically on a male more powerful!}' than on a woman, producing orgasm followed by paralytic symptoms. Saalfeld has made use of ovarian juice for skin diseases during the menopause, and also for prurigo at the menstrual period with success. Removal of Ovaries for the Cure of Cancer of the Breast was first practised by Beatson of Glasgow in 1895, and he made public his results before the Edinburgh Medico- Chirurgical Society in May 1896. He believed that some pathological condition of the ovaries was the exciting cause of cancer of the breast. There is a close relation, he noted, between the ovaries and the secretion of milk ; epithelial proliferation in a healthy breast becomes a factor in milk production, whilst in an unhealthy breast it becomes a factor in developing cancer. Removal of the ovaries appeared, he maintained, to have an inhibitory influence on malignant proliferation of epithelial cells. Since 1896 Watson Cheyne, Herman, and particularly Stanley Boyd, have tried this practice and published their results. Beatson, with whom Herman agrees, advocates the administration of thyroid extract after oophorectomy as a powerful lymphatic stimulant. Stanley Boyd has ob- served the effects of the extract in several cases where oophorectomy was also practised, and in others where the ovaries were not removed, and came to the conclusion that its action on the disease is very doubtful. In Page and Bishop's case of recurrent cancer of the breast the ex- tract was given for a year without effect; then the patient disappeared, but continued taking the drug. When she was again seen six months later, the disease had disappeared. But Boyd questions whether the result was due to the thyroid extract, and quotes Gould's case of spontaneous disappearance of advanced mam- mary cancer without any kind of treatment. From 3 to 20 grains of the thyroid extract were given daily in the above cases. Oopho- rectomy has certainly proved of temporary benefit in many cases of recurrent or inoperable cancer. In the summer of 1900 Stanley Boyd gave details of thirty-eight cases, in seventeen of which considerable improvement had resulted. He found that the operation was practically useless after the menopause, and admits that a great deal moi-e experience will be necessary to determine its mode of action and range of benefit. Accessory Ovaries. — The term "accessory ovary" is usually applied to a small lobe of ovarian tissue attached to the normal ovary by a pedicle. In an example under the author's own observation there was on the opposite side a fibro-myoma of the ovarian ligament half an inch in diameter. De Sindty once detected a supernumerary ovary which bore on its surface ciliated, not columnar epithelium, and contained cysts lined with the same kind of cell and bearing ova. About 4 per cent of post-mortem subjects show these insignificant "accessory ovaries" (Beigel and von Winckel). Portions