NEUROSES, OCCUPATION 51 tributed to its development, such as local in- jury, mental anxiety, or debilitating illness; and the same reasoning applies to the other occupation neuroses. If the disease has become fully developed, and especially if pain be a prominent feature, recovery is less likely and more tedious. The most unfavourable cases of writer's cramp are those in which the hours of writing are long, and rest is an impossi- bility owing to the dependence on the employ- ment for a livelihood. Recurrence in the left hand sometimes follows if that is used in place of the right, especially, according to Gowers, when neuralgic pain is the predominant feature. Treatment.—As already said, rest is an essen- tial part of the treatment, though much may be done in improving the general condition by tonics, iron, and strychnine, change of air and scene, and avoidance of all mental worry. Since, in writer's cramp, a faulty method of writing is largely the cause of the neurosis, in the early stages of the disorder the symptom may be arrested by attention to this. A thick cork penholder should be substituted for the ordinary penholder or quill—the kind of nib matters little so long as it will glide easily over the paper— and the pen must be held about its middle, so that the end of the middle finger is at least one and a half inches distant from the point of the pen. Some patients find some relief by holding the pen between the first and second fingers, though this is not to be generally recommended. The act of writing must be performed from the shoulder in as free a manner as possible, the fingers, wrist, and thumb being held quite motionless, so that a line may be written across a sheet of notepaper without taking the point of the pen off the paper. In order to take as much strain off" the arm as possible, it is a good plan to have the front of the writing-table curved deeply so as to fit closely around the body, in order that the elbow may rest on the table. The surface of the table should be well polished, so that the elbow may glide easily in this method of writing from the shoulder. Another way of compassing the same end may be obtained by sitting sideways at an ordinary table, so that the right arm may rest upon it. If, as soon as the symptoms are first noticed, three weeks or a month's complete rest from writing can be obtained, and then when the occupation is again resumed, the style be cor- rected as above, a cure may sometimes be effected. Local treatment is also of some value, and the patient should be encouraged to knead the muscles of the thenar eminence and the first dorsal interosseus with the left hand several times a day, and also at the same time bo practise flexing and extending the thumb and fingers in all directions for a few minutes two or three times a day. Local galvanism is Qot of much use, but may be tried if the pain is severe, or if there be wasting. In a severe case writing with the right hand must be entirely given up for six months if possible, and the left hand used in its place. If the writing is of such a kind that it can be done by a typewriter, the use of this may be attended by no discomfort even in a bad case of writer's cramp, and the left hand may be used alone if pain or spasm is induced in the right. For this purpose the Yost machine is to be preferred to the Remington, on account of the upper case for the capitals being worked by a different set of keys from those for the small letters, thus necessitating a freer and less cramped movement of the hands. A¥hat has been said for writer's cramp applies generally to all other occupation neuroses, rest from the harmful employment being the first essential. If definite evidence of functional weakness or ansesthesia be found in addition, these may be combated by energetic faradism and massage. Neurotomy.—Division of a nerve, as performed in persistent cases of neuralgia; nerve-section. See Nerves, Neuralgia (Treat- ment, Surgical). Neusser's Granules. — Basophilic granules occasionally seen in leucocytes, and perhaps indicative of the uric acid diathesis. Neutra.1 Dyes. — One of the three varieties of aniline dyes (acid, basic, and neutral), possessing a selective affinity for the neutrophile granules of leucocytes. Neutrophile Granules.—Fine granules, having a selective affinity for neutral dyes, found in normal polynuclear leucocytes and also in such pathological forms as the mononuclear leucocyte, the myelocyte, and the small pseudo-lymphocyte ; it is doubtful whether it is correct to name them neutrophilic, for they have really a " minimal attraction for acid dyes." See Leucocytosis {Ordinary Finely Granular Leucocytosis); Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Cells of Blood, Leucocytes). New-born Infant. Definition and Introductory Remarks 52 Anatomical Peculiarities 52 Physiological Peculiarities . 5.3 Hygiene and Management 54 Feeding ....... 55 Diseases— Asphyxia Neonatorum 57 Affections of the Umbilicus 58 Tetanus Neonatorum 59 Buhl's Disease ; Winckel's Disease 59 Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neonatorum . 60 Melcena Neonatorum 60 Icterus Neonatorum .... 60 Ophthalmia Neonatorum . 61 Cephalhcematoma Neonatorum, etc. 61