194 OSTEO-ARTHROPATHIES Society of London, appointed to examine this question, found that in 66 cases of tabetic arthropathy a single joint only was affected in 41 ; in 19 cases two joints were affected, and in only 6 were more than two diseased. The mode of onset of Charcot's joint is acute, painless, and rapid, often leading to advanced disorganisation of the joint within a few weeks; in rheumatoid arthritis the onset and progress are nearly always both gradual and accompanied by pain. The morbid anatomy of the two affections is in some cases closely alike in its appearances, but the eburnation of bone beneath the corroded articular cartilages, which is generally so prominent a feature in rheuma- toid arthritis, is nearly always absent in tabetic arthropathy, the bone in the latter being porous and devoid of any sclerosis beneath its cartilages. As to the exact way in which diseases of the nervous system produce trophic changes in bones and joints, there is but little known. The fact, however, that locomotor ataxy is the condition with which the lesions in question are most commonly associated, suggests at once that it is the sensory fibres which are primarily at fault, and this is borne out by the morbid anatomy of syringomyelia, and further narrowed by the facts that in the latter case the sensa- tions for pain and temperature are frequently the only ones affected, and also that the nerve roots and peripheral fibres are not involved as they are in tabes. As to how lesions of the sensory fibres modify the nutrition of the bones and joints nothing definite is known : it may be that there are special trophic nerves associated with them, or the changes may possibly be produced by the vasomotor fibres ; the motor cells of the anterior cornua probably take no important part in the matter, since no lesions comparable to those with which we are now concerned occur when these cells are definitely diseased as, for instance, in infantile paralysis and progressive muscular atrophy. Pitres and Vaillard found chan ges in the nutritive nerve of the bone, but it seems fairly obvious that lesions of peripheral nerves cannot be considered in any sense a constant cause, since in a disease so common as peri- pheral neuritis lesions of joints comparable in any way to those of locomotor ataxy or syringo- myelia are exceedingly rare. Trophic lesions of bones and joints, as already stated, occur to some extent in other diseases than those already described. In leprosy, osteo-arthropathies have been de- scribed by Heiberg which have many of the characteristics of the osteo-arthropathies of tabes, viz., swelling and laxness of the joint capsules with wearing away and atrophy of the ends of the bones, and the same observer has also discovered a condition which closely resembles the "tabetic foot." In general paralysis of the insane the bones become brittle and are easily broken, but it is very doubtful whether the changes can be put down to any direct trophic influence; true arthropathies, when present, are probably of tabetic origin, since the relationship between tabes and general paralysis is such a close one. In infantile paralysis the chief characteristic is arrested growth of bones. In peripheral neuritis chronic changes may take place in and around the joints, which lead to thickening and occasionally to anchylosis, but—with the possible exception of those oc- curring in leprosy which may be of peripheral origin—they are not in any degree comparable to the lesions of tabes and syringomyelia. Arthropathies have occasionally been described as a result of hemiplegia, and they may also sometimes be found as a complication of Pott's disease and injuries of the spine. Pulmonary Ostbo-Arthropathy. — Changes in the bones and joints are frequently found in cases of pulmonary tuberculosis and other chronic chest affections, such as empyema, bronchiectasis, and abscess of the lung. Marie first drew attention to these conditions in the course of his writings on acromegaly. In a typical case the fingers are greatly enlarged, especially at the last phalanges which are very much swollen, the heads of the metacarpal bones are slightly enlarged, and also the wrists. The feet may be enlarged in a similar manner. The significance of these changes is at present doubtful. Godlee considers that in many in- stances there is no enlargement of the bones at all, basing his conclusions upon Rontgen ray photographs and also on the fact that patients sometimes rapidly recover when their chest complaint is cured. In other cases erosion of articular cartilages and subperiosteal thickening of the bones have been found, but here Thorburn has shown that such changes are probably often due to local tuberculosis. OsteoblclSt.—A bone-forming cell. See Physiology, Tissues {Bone, Development). Osteochondritis. — Inflammation of bone and cartilage, such as occurs at the junction of the diaphysis and epiphysis of a long bone in foetal syphilis. Osteochondroma. — A tumour con- sisting partly of bone and partly of cartilage. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Neoplasms). OsteOClSlSiS.—The fracturing of a bone in order to correct a deformity. See Deformities {Bow-Legs, Operative Measures). Osteoclast. — A multinucleated con- nective-tissue cell which carries on a burrowing process or has an eroding influence upon bone; also, an instrument for fracturing bone (in osteoclasis, q.v.).