PARALYSIS 304 in the cases in which there is no evidence of lateral sclerosis. A very large proportion of the patients develop bulbar symptoms sooner or later, so that it is more common to meet with cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which bulbar paralysis forms part of the clinical picture than not, and hence it is that these patients are so frequently emotional. So, too, respiratory and cardiac troubles occur, which are probably due to affection of the cells of pneumogastric nucleus. There is no blunting of sensibility; but the subjects of this affection not uncommonly com- plain of numbness, tingling, and pain in the limbs. The sphincters if affected at all only become so in the final stages of the disease. Chronic Nuclear Bulbar Paralysis (Glosso- labio-laryngeal Paralysis).—This form of bulbar paralysis is essentially of the same nature as progressive muscular atrophy, the only difference being that the neurones of some of the motor cranial nerves are affected instead of those of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. The disease may begin in this part of the central nerve axis, and may run its course to a fatal termination without any evidence of similar affection of the neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. In other cases the anterior horns become affected, and then the symptoms of progressive muscular atrophy are added to those of bulbar paralysis, in the same way that symptoms of bulbar paralysis may arise in the course of a case that begins as progressive muscular atrophy. Whether the disease be limited to the neurones of motor cranial nerves, or whether there is affection of the cells of the anterior horns as well, it is common to detect signs of lateral sclerosis in these cases, so that the muscular atrophy is combined with spasticity, and the cases then present the features of bulbar para- lysis in association with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In short, cases of this kind afford examples of the concomitant affection of the motor neurones of the cerebral cortex, of the nuclei of certain cranial nerves, and, it may be also, of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. In bulbar paralysis the tongue is, as a rule, the first part to be affected, and speech becomes defective, notably in regard to the pronunciation of dental and guttural consonants, in that the tongue has to be brought in contact with the teeth in the one case and with the palate in the other. The movements of the tongue are impaired, and the organ shows signs of atrophy. It cannot be protruded to the full extent, nor can its tip be properly curled up, and lateral movements are also impaired, so that it cannot be brought in contact with the cheek on either side. All that is evident in the way of atrophy at first is that the organ is somewhat flattened, but as the atrophy progresses the mucous mem- brane becomes thrown into longitudinal folds, with grooves between, and the organ then has a shrivelled, puckered appearance. A further feature, which is very characteristic, is the occur- rence of fibrillary tremors in a longitudinal direction in the course of the muscle fibres of the tongue. Weakness of the orbicularis oris next becomes manifest, so that the patient can neither pout nor whistle, and speech, already defective in consequence of the paralysis of the tongue, becomes further impaired, the chief new diffi- culty experienced being in the pronunciation of the explosive labials "b" and "p," which become " m " and "v." Bilateral paralysis of the soft palate accom- panies the paralysis of the tongue and orbi- cularis oris, so that the patient's speech has a nasal quality, and "k" and "g," already difficult of pronunciation, become more so, in that the difficulty of pressing the tongue against the soft palate is increased. The paralysis of the palate also increases the difficulty of pro- nouncing the explosive labials "b" and "p," in that some of the air escapes by the posterior nares. The escape of air in this way also makes it impossible for the patient to blow out the cheeks, even if the lips are tightly closed be- tween the fingers and thumb, and the effort to do so merely results in a snorting noise, due to the rushing of air through the nose. When attempts are made to swallow liquids, they regurgitate through the nose, as the palate no longer shuts off the posterior nares fi'om the pharynx during the act of deglutition. On phonation or deep inspiration the palate either does not move at all, or is very imperfectly drawn up, and the reflex action of the palate is also diminished or abolished, so that the uvula is not elevated when the palate is pricked. Later in the course of the disease the vocal cords may become paralysed ; but this does not occur as frequently as the name " labio-glosso- laryngeal palsy" might lead one to suppose. When the vocal cords are affected the voice becomes low-pitched and monotonous, and the patient cannot cough properly. Still later the nucleus of the vagus may become affected, in consequence of which the heart's action becomes rapid, and the patient is liable to attack of dypsncea. Another late phenomenon that may occur is atrophy of the chin muscles, but with the ex- ception of these muscles and the orbicularis oris, all the other muscles of the face, as a rule, escape. Sometimes the muscles of mastication are affected, in consequence of which the lower jaw may drop, the mouth remains open, and the patient can only bite very feebly. The unfortunate victim of this malady is usually very emotional, and cries and laughs without cause, although the intellect remains perfectly clear. When the disease is fully established the expression is most lugubrious.