PANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY 245 excision of the pancreas is not the absence of the pancreatic juice from the intestines; but that the diabetes must be referred to a disturb- ance of metaboHsm produced by the withdrawal of some influence exerted by the functionally active gland. Two views with regard to this influence naturally suggest themselves. The pancreas either renders innocuous some sub- stance whose retention within the body pro- duces the accumulation of sugar in the blood, or it is normally directly or indirectly concerned in promoting the utilisation of glucose within the body. In order to test the former hypothesis, Minkowski injected the blood of a diabetic dog into a healthy one. From the negative result obtained no conclusion could be drawn : for the healthy dog, possessing a functionally active pancreas, was presumably in a position to render innocuous the hypothetical toxic sub- stance present in the blood of the diabetic dog. Hedon attempted the solution of the same problem by a slightly different method. He injected the blood of a dog suffering from the severest type of diabetes into one from whom the pancreas had been partially removed, and whose urine, when the animal was maintained on a meat diet, contained only '67 per cent glucose. After the injection, no increase in the quantity of glucose excreted by the dog whose pancreas had been partially excised was observable. The latter experiment, although not absolutely decisive, still renders improbable the conclusion that the diabetes following excision of the pancreas is due to the retention of a toxic substance. Under the head of the second theory, that the diabetes occurring after excision of the pancreas is due to the withdrawal of some influence normally exerted by the pancreas on the metabolism of carbohydrates within the body, several hypotheses have been brought forward. The pancreas may prevent the ac- cumulation of glucose in the blood by either favouring its katabolism in the tissues or by promoting its conversion into glycogen by the liver. It may favour oxidation either by direct action on the glucose, rendering it more accessible to oxidation by the tissues, or by secreting some substance to be carried by the blood-stream to the tissues and utilised by them in the oxidation of glucose. Sufficient evidence is not available to test either of these possi- bilities. Some observers have recently en- deavoured to prove that pancreatic diabetes is due to the absence of a glycolytic ferment. Claude Bernard discovered that after death the quantity of sugar in the blood diminished more or less rapidly. Later observers showed that this diminution took place even when micro- organisms were excluded, and ascribed the action to a glycolytic enzyme whose activity was destroyed at 54° C. This enzyme has been shown to act as an oxidising agent, and is held by some observers to be a nucleoproteid. Lepine states that it is primarily derived from the pancreas, passes thence into the blood, and is carried by the leucocytes. Lepine states that it is present in the blood only in small amount after extirpation of the pancreas, and ascribed the resulting diabetes to the diminution of glycolytic ferment in the blood. Several ob- jections to this view have been raised. The most important of these is that of Minkowski, who showed that the quantity of the glycolytic enzyme is the same in the blood of diabetic as in that of normal dogs. The theory previously referred to—namely, that the pancreas acts by aiding the liver and other organs in the building up of glycogen from glucose—has more evidence in its favour. It has already been shown that the conversion of glucose into glycogen does not take place in a dog from which the pancreas has been removed. If this conversion be necessary for the further utilisation of glucose within the body, it is easy to understand that glucose must accvmmlate in the blood when the pancreas has been removed. For the formation of glycogen from Isevulose the influence of the pancreas is unnecessary. This difference in the behaviour of glucose and Isevulose is still quite inexplicable. Lastly, the question as to whether the function of the pancreas in cai-bohydrate meta- bolism is a specific one may be shortly con- sidered. Some observers have stated that ex- cision of the salivary glands of the dog also produces diabetes. The glycosuria so produced is, however, slight, transitory, and not constant, and is probably to be classed with the transitory glycosuria sometimes occurring after operations on the human subject. If the pancreas be excised along with the salivary glands, the diabetes that results is not more severe than that following excision of the pancreas alone. Similar statements hold good with regard to the glycosuria occasionally following excision of the thyroid {see also "Diabetes," vol. ii., and "Glycosuria," vol. iii.). Pancreas, Diseases of Introduction ...... 246 Anatomical Considerations . . . 246 Physiological Considerations. . . 246 Pathological Considerations— Relationship to Gall-Stones . . 247 Fat Necrosis . . . . .247 Haemorrhage in Pancreatic Diseases . 248 1. Pancreatitis— Acute 249 Subacute 250 Chronic . . . . . .251 2. Cysts of Pancreas .... 256 3. Malignant Diseases .... 258 4. Ulceration ..... 259 5. Pancreatic Lithiasis . . . 259