522 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM We shall at present deal with the second of these, leaving the former for consideration when studying the physiology of the viscera. 1. The Neural Arcs The neuro-muscnlar mechanism is controlled by three chains or arcs of neurons, consisting of ingoing neurons on the one side and outgoing- neurons on the other. 1. Spinal or Peripheral Arc.—A. Ingoing (Fig. 41, A).—These neurons start in dendritic expansions at the periphery, and enter the cord by the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. In these roots they are connected with cells by lateral branches {see p. 550). When they enter the cord they either pass to the posterior portion, and divide into (a) branches running for a short distance down the cord ; (i) branches running right up to the top of the spinal cord to end in synapses round masses of cells—the nuclei of the posterior columns; or, (c) either directly or by collaterals, they form synapses to the base of the great brain, where they end in synapses round other cells in the thalamus opticus (Fig. 41, C) ; (ii.) from the cells in the spinal cord with which the spinal ingoing neurons have made synapses. The fibres to the cerebrum cross in the cord and run up to end in synapses in the thalamus ; (iii.) from the synapses in the base of the brain, formed by the incoming fibres of the head sense organs. These fibres also pass up to end in the thalamus. (c) UpjMr Neurons.—From cells in the thala- mus, processes pass up to the cortex of the great brain, to end in synapses with the neurons situated there. B. Outgoing (Fig. 41, D).—The outgoing neurons start in the cells of the cortex cerebri, and pass down to the upper part of the spinal cord, where most of them cross and run down the lateral column of the spinal cord, giving off collaterals which end in synapses round the cells in the anterior horn of grey matter, from which the spinal outgoing neurons pass to the muscles, etc. Those which do not cross run down the anterior column of the cord for some distance, and end by crossing and becoming associated with the cells in the anterior horn. 3. Cerebellar Arc — A. Ingoing (Fig. 41, E).—Some of the collaterals of the spinal ingoing neurons end in synapses round a mass of I'IG. 41.—To show the three arcs in the central nervous system. A, Peripheral ingoing neuron nerve cells at the side of giving off collaterals in the cord and some terminating above in the nuclei of the posterior j.i o-rpv mattpr of the sninal columns; B, peripheral outgoing neurons; C, ingoing cerebral neurons; D, outgoing ^'^^ iiiautKi t" cerebral neurons, crossing to the opposite side at //; E, ingoing cerebellar neurons; cord — the cells of Lockhart Clarke. From these cells, vip at the margin of the cord brain or cerebellum to form, F, outgoing cerebellar neurons. with other neurons. The most important of these in the spinal arc are the neurons in the ventral part from which the outgoing fibres spring. The other neurons with which synapses are formed send fibres either up the same side of the cord or across to the opposite side. These may be considered as part of the next two arcs. B. Outgoing (Fig. 41, B).—From the neurons in the ventral part of the cord, fibres are given off which pass out in the anterior or ventral roots of the spinal nerves to muscles, glands, and other reacting structures. The fibres entering and leaving the base of the brain by the ci'anial nerves belong to this arc. The action of these neurons is controlled and modified by the two other series of central neurons. 2. Cerebral Arc—A. Ingoing (Fig. 41, C) —(a) Lower Neurons.—These are the ingoing neurons of the spinal arc, described above. (Jj) Intermediate Neurons.—These start (i.) from the cells in the nuclei of the posterior columns, and, crossing the middle line, run up fibres extend to the lesser Dram or directly or indirectly, synapses round the cells in this organ. From the same group of cells other fibres cross to the opposite side and run up to the cerebellum. Fibres from the synapses, formed by the incoming fibres from the laby- rinth of the ear and probably from the eye, also course to the cerebellum. B. Outgoing (Fig. 41, F). — From neurons near the surface of the cerebellum and in the central nuclei axons extend {a) to the medulla oblongata, where they end in synapses round a mass of cells—the nucleus of Deiters. From these cells, fibres extend down the lateral columns of the same side of the spinal cord, and give ott' collaterals to the cells of the anterior horn of grey matter. (6) To the cerebrum. The nervous system may thus be considered as built up of these three arcs :— \st. The sjiinal arcs consist of the peripheral ingoing neurons and the peripheral outgoing neurons. These arcs exist not only at the level of the cord at which the ingoing neuron enters,