539 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM is seen (Fig. 61). On bringing an object from above, it is not seen till A is reached, while on bringing it from below it is seen at D. The Fia. 60.—Methods of demonstrating the blind spot: a, by Mariotte's experiment; b, by moving a pencil along a sheet of paper. angle BBC is larger than C£A. The angle ABD is subtended by the vertical field of vision, and it will be observed how it is constricted by the eyebrow. The verticle angle amounts to Fig. 61.—The field of vision, and the metliod of investigating it by the perimeter. C, the point in the arc of a circle to which the eye, B, is directed. about 130°, i.e. 60° in the upper field and 70° in the lower field. The horizontal field, worked out in the same way, gives about 150°, of which no less than 90° are on the outer side and only 60° on the inner. Of all parts of the retina the central spot is the most sensitive to differences of illimiination in bright light. (3) The laye7^ of the retina capable of stimula- tion is the layer of rods and cones. This is proved by the experiment of Purkinje's images, which depends upon the fact that if a ray of light is thrown through the sclerotic coat of the eye the shadow of the blood-vessels stimu- lates a subjacent layer (Fig. 62, c), and these vessels appear as a series of wriggling lines on the surface looked at. If the light be moved, the lines seem to move, and, by resolving the triangles, it is possible to calculate the distance behind the vessels of the part stimulated, and this distance is fovmd to corre- spond to the thickness of the retina. The shadows of the blood-vessels are not seen in ordinary vision, be- cause they then fall upon parts of the retina which are insensitive. The cones are the more specialised elements of the retina, and they react more particularly to bright light, which soon exhausts the rods. The rods, again, react fig. 62.—To show that the to faint illumination. This ?eti^a°is 'sttaukted. explains why it is that, when {Piijhinje's images^ ^ ... T 1 • 1 j_ Source of light; 6, we go out into a dark night blood-vessel of retina; from a brightly lighted room, *^t^/',resf 7 we at first can see nothing image of shadow men- clearly, but after a time, when the wai'i"^^'''^^*^ *° the rods have recovered, we begin to see objects more distinctly. It also explains why it is that if we direct our eye to a small faintly shining star we may fail to see it, because its image falls on cones alone, while it becomes visible if the eye be directed slightly from it. The rods seem incapable of giving rise to colour sensation, and when the solar spectrum is looked at in a very dim light it appears as a greyish band of illumination with the red end wanting, because the slow red vibrations fail to stimulate the rods. It is because the blue end of the spectrum is the more active in faint illu- mination that the illusion of a moonlight scene may be got by looking through a blue glass, while looking through a yellow glass gives the idea of sunlight and brilliant illumination. (4) Modes of Stimulation. — The rods and cones are generally stimulated by the ethereal light vibration, but they may be stimulated by mechanical violence or by sudden changes in an electric current. But, however stimulated, the kind of sensation is always of the same kind —a visual sensation (see p. 354). (5) Of the nature of the changes in the retina when stimulated we know little. But we know that—