571 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM division is filled in so that all the various com- binations of muscular movement are represented (Figs. 107 and 109). It must be remembered that these centres do not send nerves to single muscles, but act upon groups to produce definite combined movements, through the lower spinal centres. (b) The action of these centres involves not only stimulation of certain muscles, but the in- hibition of others. This is very clearly shown as regards the eye movements. In the monkey the resting position of the eyes _ is straight forward, with the optic axes parallel. If all the nerves to the ocular muscles be cut this position is assumed, and if the position of the eye be passively altered, upon removing the displacing force it springs back to this position. If the III. or IV. nerve of the left side be cut so that the external rectus alone is unparalysed, then, exciting a part of the cortex which causes movements of the two eyes to the opposite side, produces not only a movement of the right eye in that direction, but a movement of the left eye to the right as far as the middle line—the position of rest—showing that the VI. nerve has been inhibited. Stimulation of the cortex causes flexion more readily than extension, apparently because the inhibitory mechanism for the extensors is better developed than that for the flexors. Sherrington finds that under the influence of strychnine or of tetanus toxin this condition is reversed, and that stimuli which in normal conditions will cause flexion now cause powerful extension, and hence co-ordinated movement is impossible. (c) In these motor areas the lesion must be extensive to cause complete paralysis of any group of muscles. A limited lesion may simply cause a loss of the finer movements. Thus, a monkey with part of the middle portion of the Rolandic areas removed may be able to move its arm and hand, but may be quite unable to pick up objects from the floor of its cage. As in the case of the receiving, so in that of the discharging mechanism, it is the most re- cently acquired functions which are most easily lost. This is well illustrated by the results of lesions of the left inferior frontal convolution— the area which presides over movements of the lips and tongue. This is the centre which has to be specially educated in the use of spoken language ; and, when this region is only slightly injured, the power of using language may be lost without there being any impairment in the power of moving the muscles. This was long ago observed by Broca, and hence this part of the brain is often called Broca's convolution. Similarly, in the hand area, while crude lesions are required to cause loss of power of moving the hand, very slight interferences with nutri- tion may cause loss of power of expressing language in writing. (d) The limits of these areas may be mapped out by the character and distribution of the cells. The great feature is the presence of very large pyramidal cells, the cells of Betz, in the sixth layer of the cortex (Fig. 109). These are confined to the ascending frontal lobes. But in front of this is a region stimulation of which gives rise to movements, and in which the cell arrangement is much the same except that the cells of Betz are absent. Well out in the frontal region is a patch, stimulation of which leads to movements of the eyes (p. 569), and this region is directly connected by a strong band of fibres with the occipital lobe and with the cerebellum. It is present only in animals which employ binocular vision. It has been suggested that this intermedio-precentral region is specially connected with the finer and more highly co- ordinated muscular movements, such as those of the eyes and of the mouth in speech. PhysiolOgry—Part II. (Nutrition of THE Tissues) will appear in vol. viii.