NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 119 tion between the antrum and the nose. The opening in the canine fossa in the first instance is necessary as the interior of the antral cavity cannot be properly dealt with through the anterior naris. The main steps of the operation, as described by Luc, are as follows : — After everting the upper lip an incision commencing behind at the level of the first molar tooth is carried forward as far as the canine, the mucous membrane and periosteum being divided a few millimetres below the buccal fold between the alveolus and the cheek. In this way the intro- duction of the stitches at a later stage of the operation is facilitated. The periosteum is then raised, and a large opening sufficient to admit the finger is made through the facial wall, care being taken to remove the bone as far forwards as the junction of the facial and nasal walls of the cavity—that is, up to the canine ridge. By doing this the artificial opening into the nose is more easily made. The cavity is carefully curetted and inspected, and then swabbed out with a strong solution of chloride of zinc (1 in 10 or 1 in 5), and temporarily plugged with iodoform gauze so as to arrest the oozing of blood. The second stage of the operation is now carried out; the nasal chamber on the same side is first plugged with gauze so as to avoid injury to the septum nasi. By means of a gouge inti'oduced through the canine opening the antero-inferior portion of the nasal wall of the antrum is removed ; the electro-motor burs will greatly facilitate this step in the operation. The nasal mucous membrane is then dissected oif along with the anterior half of the inferior turbinated bone, and the establishment of a large communication between the sinus and the nose is thus ensured (Fig. 4). The antral cavity is again plugged from the mouth, and the end of the dressing passed through the naso-maxillary opening for future extraction by that route. The incision in the buccal mucous membrane is now closed with catgut sutures threaded upon a slightly curved needle. This wound is probably healed upon the third or fourth day, but care must be taken in the interim to prevent the contact of food with it. The plug is extracted from the antrum through the nose four or five days after the operation. The use of the handkerchief may then be found sufficient for getting rid of any abnormal secre- tion in the cavity; it is found advisable, how- ever, to wash it out through a curved cannula or Eustachian catheter during the succeeding four or six weeks. If at the end of that time, after an interval of seven days, the fluid is re- turned clear, the cure may be considered com- plete. This operation is not indicated when there is any co-existing sinus disease, or when antral suppuration is complicated with an atrophic rhinitis; under such circumstances reinfection of the antrum from the nose w^ould probably occur. The advantages claimed for this procedure by the authors are to be found in the rapid closure of the buccal wound with consequent diminution in the risk of reinfection of the sinus from the mouth, and in the avoid- ance of repeated plugging. On the other hand, the propriety of establishing a large permanent opening between the nasal and antral cavities is open to question. B. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration of the Frontal Simis.—When the treatment of this condition comes under consideration there are —as in the case of the antrum—two methods open to discussion —namely, irrigation of the sinus through the natural orifice by way of the nose, and the radical treatment by an external operation. In order to effect a cure in the majority of cases it is necessary to remove all intranasal disease so as to prevent reinfection of the sinus, to establish free drainage into the nose, and to restore the lining membrane of the sinus to a healthy condition. Further, these requirements must be satisfied with the least possible disfigurement to the patient. Owing to the situation of the ostium frontale at the most dependent part of the cavity, drainage is, as a rule, good, and probably for this reason there is a greater tendency to spontaneous cure in cases of acute frontal sinus suppuration than in similar conditions of the antrum. When the chronic form is met with, it may therefore be right to assume that it is due to imperfect drainage combined with an altered condition of the mucous membrane such as has already been described. It is undoubtedly the case that these changes are very frequently met with in the frontal sinus in chronic cases. Under these circumstances we naturally ask ourselves how far imperfect drainage and a thickened mucosa can be influenced by irrigation through the nose, and whether in any of these cases it is worth while giving this method of treatment a trial. It is true that occasionally a successful result is thus obtained, but far less frequently than in the case of the antrum. The disad- vantages of the method appear to outweigh the isolated cases of successful treatment. Further, the existence of anatomical irregularities and incomplete subdivisions of the sinus interfere with satisfactory irrigation of the whole cavity, while it is difficult to deal thoroughly through the nose with all the ethmoidal disease which is so frequently co-existent. Again, irrigation can- not be readily carried out by the patient him- self. It is necessary, in a word, to condemn any attempt to enter the frontal sinus by boring upwards from the nose through the floor of the cavity. A perusal of Spiess's paper dealing with this procedure aided by the Rdntgen rays does not lead one to modify views previously held regarding the danger of this method. As the technique of the external operation still further improves, in all probability we shall cease to consider such points as those just