232 PALATE scopic examination. The therapeutic test is only of value if the ulcer rapidly improves and heals under antisyphilitic treatment. Treatment.—Free removal of the tumour and the lymphatic glands. Glandular Cancer.—In its early stage gland- ular cancer, which usually affects the hard palate towards its posterior part, may give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis. The tumour forms a smooth swelling which projects into the mouth, and is usually situated to one side of the middle line. As it grows it spreads out laterally, and also tends to perforate into the nose and antrum. If the case be not seen until the bone has become destroyed there may be considerable difficulty in diagnosing the primary seat of the disease, since, after the bone has become perforated, growth usually takes place rapidly. The buccal aspect of the tumour ulcerates. The lymphatic glands be- come implicated. Diagnosis.—The gumma is, as a rule, situated in or near the middle line, is round in shape, and does not extend laterally to the same extent as the cancer. Prognosis.—Unsatisfactory, unless an early diagnosis be made and free removal adopted. Treatment. — The removal of the palatal process of the superior maxillary or of the antrum, according to the extent of the growth as well as the glands. Some cases are inoperable. Paralysis of the Soft Palate.— Vide " Diph- theria," "Paralysis, Bulbar," " Brain, Tumours of," etc., etc. Congenital Malformations of the Mouth— Hare-Lip Development ...... 232 Origin op Congenital Malfobmations . 233 Macrostoma— Appearances . . . . .233 Treatment 233 Microstoma— Appearances . . . . .233 Treatment ..... 233 Mandibular Cleft .... 233 Facial Cleft 234 Median Hare-Lip 234 Lateral Hare-Lip 234 Varieties— Unilateral . . . . .234 Alveolar ...... 234 Double 234 Effects of Hare-Lip .... 234 Treatment ...... 235 Period for Operation .... 235 Essentials for Success .... 235 Operations for— Unilateral Alveolar Hare-Lip . . 236 Double Hare-Lip . . . .237 After-Treatment ..... 238 Complications . ... 238 Development.—Before entering upon the de- scription of hare-lip and other allied congenital malformations, a brief account of the develop- ment of the face and mouth is necessary. The object of the writer being to present a summary of the more generally accepted views regarding the malformations to be considered in this article, points of controversy will not be entered into. About the third week of intra-uterine life the primitive cerebral vesicle becomes acutely bent over the end of the notochord, and around the depression thus produced, which soon deepens to form the cavity of the mouth, the face is developed by the blending of various processes. Below, the first pair of branchial arches unite in the fifth week to form the mandibular bar, from which is developed the lower jaw, the lower portion of the cheek, and the chin. On each side a bud-like projection grows in from the upper border of the root of the first branchial arch and forms the maxillary process, from which are derived the whole of the superior maxilla, except the portion which is intermaxillary, the greater part of the cheek, and the labial part of the upper lip. From above a broad process, the fronto-nasal, grows downwards between the maxillary pro- cesses, from which it is separated by a fissure (the naso-orbital fissure). Thus there are formed around the primitive mouth, or stomodseum, five processes—two man- dibular, two maxillary, and the fronto-nasal. The fronto-nasal process soon, however, mani- fests a further stage in development by dividing into two lateral and a median process, the latter splitting into two segments, which are separated by a groove. There are thus two processes on each side— the internal nasal process (globular process of His) and the external nasal process. From the internal nasal process there de- velops, superficially, the central portion of the upper lip; deeply, the inner segment (endo- gnathion) of the intermaxillary bone ; and, above the groove, the prominence of the nose. From the external nasal process is formed the side of the cheek, the ala nasi, and from its deep aspect the outer (mesognathiou) of the intermaxilla. The intermaxillary bone, developed, as men- tioned above, from the internal and external projections of the fronto-nasal process, is made up, according to Albrecht, of two ti'iangular portions on each side, known as the endognathion and mesognathiou ; the maxilla is termed the exognathion. Each segment contains an incisor tooth, and occasionally an accessory tooth is found growing from the endognathion. Tlie apices of the four intermaxillary segments con- verge towards the anterior palatine canal. The palate is developed as follows:—About the sixth week there grows inwards from the