NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 3 degenerative changes in its fibres, which involve the entire peripheral segment down to the terminations, and include the muscle plates ; in the central segment the degeneration extends only to the first or second node of Ranvier above the lesion. This degeneration is first seen in the myelin, which becomes turbid and granular, and after a few days breaks up into large drops; in the ensuing weeks these drops yield a fatty detritus, which is carried away by the lymphatics and leucocytes. A few days after the injury the axis cylinder also loses its distinctness of outline, and becomes swollen and granvilar, finally breaking up into detritus. Destruction of the sheath of Schwann and of its nuclei has not been proved to occur, but these structures become difficult to distinguish after the loss of the myelin and axis cylinder. These degenerative changes are generally complete in about two months, and they appear to proceed simultaneously in all parts of the peripheral segment; in the cut end of the proximal seg- ment they are more quickly carried out, and they only extend upwards for about one millimetre. Degeneration is accompanied and followed by regeneration, which occurs only at the cut end of the central segment, and which commences at the nodes of Ranvier immediately above the level of degeneration. A few days after section the axis cylinders of this region swell, become •more distinctly fibrillated, and commence to grow down into the nerve callus; there is thus formed a leash of new fibrils, which penetrate the calhis, reach the degenerated peripheral end, and then continue to grow down into it until they eventually attain to the muscles and skin. As these new prolongations of the old axis cylinders pass onwards they acquire a fresh covering of myelin and primitive sheath, but how they do so is not clearly proved. Probably the majority run along the old channels of the neurilemma, find there the undestroyed nuclei of the degenerated peripheral end, and stimulate them to reform myelin ; others go astray either in the epineurium or in the general cicatrix, are thus lost, and never acquire any functional value ; in the latter case their medullary sheath is presumably derived from proliferation of the nuclei of the central end. In association with the above processes the cells of the spinal cord and ganglia present various minute changes, which are the anatomical indication of their reparative activity, but which hardly call for description in this place. Finally, the process of regeneration is extremely slow, as might be anticipated from the distance to be traversed by the outgrowing axis cylinders; in the case of small nerves {e.g. digital branches) it may take many weeks, and in larger trunks it occupies months or years. Summarising the above, we may say that:— (1) Mechanical continuity is restored in about a fortnight by a connective - tissue cicatrix, which possesses no nervous functions. (2) The nerve structures proper or axis cylinders die in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound, and in the whole of that segment which is cut off from the ganglionic nuclei. (3) The accessory or insulating cells degenerate pari passu with the axis cylinders. (4) Regeneration of the axis cylinders is eifected solely by the central portions, which retain connection with their nuclei. (5) Such regeneration is extrava- gant, and produces an excessive number of new nerve-fibrils. (6) Of the latter, many get lost in the cicatrix. (7) Others grow down into the peripheral tract. (8) In so doing they acquire fresh insulating elements, either by proliferation from the healthy central end, or by re-excitation of quiescent nuclei in the degenerated peripheral cord. The above history of events is founded largely upon the original observations of Ranvier, which have in the main been confirmed by sub- sequent researches; but there is still considerable difference of opinion regarding the details of the process. In the first place, it is stated that " primary union " may occasionally occur with such rapidity that the above complicated series of events could not have been carried out. In man there is no anatomical basis for this view, but in the lower animals, and especially in birds, regeneration has apparently been shown to occur with enormous rapidity. To the clinical evidence of primary Tinion in man we shall again refer; broadly, we may say that it is hardly sufficient to establish the doctrine of immediate restoration of the continuity of the axis cylinders or primary union. A further important divergence from the views expressed above is that generally associ- ated in this country with the researches of Bowlby, who denies that degeneration occurs solely from the proximal end of the nerve, and holds that new axis cylinders are formed by the nuclei of both central and distal ends. This view is based largely upon the appearance of healthy nerve fibres in the peripheral end of an interrupted trunk; but such appearances are capable of at least two other explanations, viz. : (1) Regenerated or down-growing fibres may escape from the central end-bulb of a cut nerve, and attain to its peripheral end by an indirect course even when there is no apparent restora- tion of mechanical continuity. (2) Collateral nerves may grow into the peripheral end as they grow into transplanted flaps and other structures. We have thus far considered only the patho- logical results of nerve section in cases in which the cut ends are in approximate contact. When they are not in such contact, as when they are separated by distance or by intervening sub- stances, the results are less open to dispute. The peripheral portions now undergo progres- sive degeneration, and become converted into