211 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE pedicle causes violent abdominal pain and tenderness with distension and vomiting. The presence of a tumour and the absence of positive symptoms of intestinal obstruction indicate the true nature of the case. The tumour becomes strangulated, deeply livid, with ecchymoses without and haemorrhage within. These ap- pearances have been mistaken for gangrene, just as the symptoms have led to the suspicion of strangulated hernia, ruptured ectopic gesta- tion sac, etc., and to the consequent discovery of an unsuspected ovarian tumour (Culling- worth). In typical chronic torsion the patient suffers from dull deep pains, and there is more or less arrest of the growth of the tumour without the impaiz'ment of health observed in chronic peritonitis. But adhesions always exist in these cases, and may involve further mischief, and diagnosis of chronic torsion is not always possible; menorrhagia is frequent in chronic torsion. Treatment.—An ovarian tumour should be removed; torsion of the pedicle is but one more reason for ovariotomy. In chronic torsion the operator will have little trouble with the atrophied, degenerate pedicle, but he may have to separate intimate adhesions. In acute torsion the pedicle must be carefully handled, and ligatured with special skill, as it is usually oedematous and its veins are dilated. Detachment of an Ovarian Tumour prom ITS Pedicle is an occasional result of chronic torsion. The tumour receives its nourishment from the omentum or from dense adhesions to the parietes and viscera. More frequently, when the tumour is thus nourished, the pedicle retains its attachment, but is reduced to a thin cord with obliterated vessels. This condition, as well as complete detachment, is usually associated with dermoids. Symptoms op Ovarian Tumour. — As long as such a growth is small, it may give rise to no painful or disagreeable symptoms, whether cystic or solid, pedunculated or sessile, innocent or malignant. It is therefore sometimes acci- dentally discovered during digital exploration of the pelvis. A small, freely movable oval body, not tender, often in such a case proves to be an ovarian cyst. On the other hand, Davenport and the author have published clinical reports of ovarian tumours simulating inflamed ovaries, loose or fixed in the pelvis. Diagnosis without watching the case for a short time is often impossible. If the pain ceases, but the swelling grows larger, it is very probably an ovarian tumour; if the swelling disappears with the pain, that swelling was more probably an inflamed ovary. A typical ovarian cyst when it has risen above the pelvic brim is usually very character- istic. It forms an oval movable mass, well circumscribed, occupying the hypogastrium, iliac, and umbilical regions, and sometimes reaching to the epigastrium, or even extending into the loins. It fluctuates more or less distinctly, and the pulsations of the aorta are not transmitted to it through the stethoscope. On bimanual palpation it can be felt in front of the uterus, its base just coming into the pelvic brim. Any one, and often several of the above features may, however, be absent. Thus it may be very irregular in outline, it may be bound by adhesions down into one iliac fossa or loin ; sometimes intestine gets between its lower limits and the pubis; fluctuation or thrill on percussion may be absent if it be very multilocular. A cyst with a long pedicle some- times manages to get behind the uterus, which is pushed up above the pubis so as to lie on the surface of the tumour, a condition usually associated with completely sessile cysts. A cyst with a very short pedicle drags on the uterus, so that the two appear to move to- gether as though they were one. Hence the cyst may be taken for a uterine tumour, more especially when, as is frequently the case, the uterine cavity is elongated. The catamenia remain perfectly normal as a rule, but menor- rhagia is sometimes noted, especially after twisting of the pedicle or other complications, whilst amenorrhoea is often observed in young subjects when the ovarian tumour is malignant. Unless it has ruptured and begun to refill, an ovarian cyst is usually tense, often so tense as to feel solid. Flaccidity, with fluctuation, is more usual in parovarian cysts. Solid ovarian tumours present many of the clinical features of ovarian cysts above described, allowance being made for their solidity, which usually transmits pulsations and involves absence of fluctuation. Fibroma and myoma advance very slowly, much slower than cysts, and are occasionally associated with ascites; malignant ovarian tumours grow more rapidly than cysts, and peritoneal eff'usion sets in early. Papillo- matous tumours grow quickly, and even the most innocent may cause great peritoneal eff'u- sion. Dermoids grow slowly, feel doughy to the touch, and are seldom associated with ascites, but are very apt to be complicated by peritonitis and twisted pedicle, causing, or in- dependent of, the peritonitis. As the tumour grows larger the chance of some of the complications above related taking place becomes greater. The bulk causes pres- sure symptoms, hence oedema of the legs, and, in common ovarian cysts, late dropsy, once very often observed, now rare because of timely operating. As might be expected, dyspnoea becomes very distressing. Hypertrophy and dilatation of the heart has been detected in many advanced cases. The author, referring to a large series of necropsies which he made between 1877 and 1882, finds that chronic in- flammatory kidney disease is extremely common in these advanced and neglected cases now