518 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM various complex substances have been isolated. The most abundant of these has been called protagon. It yields stearic acid; hence it is allied to the fats, and it contains nitrogen and phosphorus. Its constitution is not known. Along with protagon, or as a result of its decomposition, lecithin occurs. This is a fat in which one of the acid radicles is replaced by phosphoric acid linked to cholin — Hydroxyethyl-trimethyl-ammonium-hydroxide. I Fatty acid. Glycerol < Fatty acid. ( Phosphoric acid. Cholin. H H HO—C—C- I I H H Hydroxyethyl OH CHg CH3 ^CH, trimethyl ammonium hydroxide. The chief interest of cholin is that it is toxic, and some of the symptoms occurring in de- generative changes of the nervous system may be due to its presence. It is closely allied to muscarin, a very powerful vegetable poison. Cholesterin, like the glycerine of ordinary fats, is an alcohol, but it is monatonic— C27H45HO—and it is capable of linking with fatty acids. It is very soluble in hot alcohol, and crystallises out on cooling in characteristic square plates, with a notch out of one corner. 3. Physiology of Nerve The neurons form a most intricate labyrinth throughout all parts of the body, and more especially throughout the central nervous system. Each is brought into relationship with many others by its dendritic terminations, and thei'e is a continued interaction between them, the activity of any one influencing the activity of many others. In this way the constant activity of the nervous system, which goes on from birth to death, during conscious- ness and in the absence of consciousness, is kept up. It is unnecessary and gratuitous to invoke the conception of automatic action on the part of any portion of the nervous system. Through- out life these neurons are constantly being acted upon from without, and activity once started by any stimulus sets up a stream of action whicli may be co-existent with life. 1. Stimulation of Neurons. — Neurons, like all other protoplasm, react to changes in external conditions; they are capable of stimulation. A neuron is usually stimulated from one or other of its terminal dendritic endings, either by changes in the tissues round these or by changes in other neurons, Tlius (Fig. 35) a neuron may be thrown into action by changes in the tissue at its extremity, and a second may be stimulated by the activity of the former. They may also be stimulated at any part of their course, as may be demonstrated by pinching the ulnar nerve behind the internal condyle of the humerus. Means of Stimulation.—Just as with muscle, so with neurons; any sudden change excites to activity—be this change a mechanical one, as in pinching a nerve, or a change in the temperature, or in tlie electric conditions in its neighbourhood, or in the chemical surroundings of the neuron—agents which withdraw water, like glycerine, stimulating most strongly. All that has been said of the stimulation of muscle applies to the stimulation of nerve. The condition of the neui'on modifies the effect of the stimulus, and the condition of other neurons modifies the ultimate result of the stimulus on the body. The excitability of a neuron is modified by many factors. It may be increased by a slight cooling, but is decreased at lower temperatures. It is increased by warming up to a certain point. Drying at first increases excitability, then abolishes it. During the flow of an electric current it is increased in the neighbourhood of the negative pole, decreased around the positive pole, in the same way as in muscle. It is influenced by many chemical substances, some of which increase in excitability in small doses, and diminish it in larger doses; some again even in the smallest dose depress its activity, e.g. potassium salts. Continued activity has no effect on the excitability of axons, and the phenomena of fatigue are not manifested in them. 2. Manifestations of the Activity of Neurons. —So far as is at present known, the activity of neurons is not accompanied by any obvious change in tliem, although it is possible that movements of the dendrites or of the gemmules upon them may occur. The activity of neurons is made evident— (a) By their action upon other structures, e.g. muscles, glands, etc., either (a) directly or {(i) indirectly through other neurons. (6) By changes in the consciousness. (c) By electric changes in the neurons. (a) and (6) Action on other Structures.—The activity of the outgoing neurons — neurons conducting impulses from the central nervous system to muscles, glands, etc.—is manifested by changes in the muscles or other structures to which they go : while the activity of ingoing neurons is made evident by their action on outgoing neurons to muscles, etc., and some- times by modifications in the state of conscious- ness, which may be of the nature of a simple brief sensation, or, by the implication of a number of other neurons, may develop into a series of changes accompanied by a corre- sponding series of sensations.