454 PHARMACOLOGY to the higher centres. It increases ideation, and in small doses facilitates mental efibrt, while the ergograph shows that it augments the capacity for physical work. In larger amounts it causes headache and insomnia, and more rarely delirium and tremor. In lower animals the cord is the chief seat of the action of the drug, the symptoms caused resembling those of strychnine. Action on the Heart and Respira- tion.—The vaso-motor centre is stimulated, and the heart accelerated from direct action on the muscle; the respiration is also quickened and becomes deeper. Action on the Muscles.—The working capacity of a muscle is enhanced, fatigue is delayed, and the stimulus required to evoke a contraction is diminished. Action on the Kidneys.—The renal epithelium is stimu- lated, and diuresis occurs ; this may be counter- acted if the vaso-constriction be so great as to diminish the flow of blood through the kidney. It is not a digitalis action, but is due to direct effect on the renal epithelium, the water of the urine especially being increased. Theobromine resembles caffeine in its action, but has less effect on the nerve centres, and hence is preferable as a diuretic. (10) Cura;ra. — Curara is not used in thera- peutics. It paralyses the terminations of nerves supplying striped muscle, and therefore abolishes the power of voluntary movement. In larger doses the peripheral ganglia are similarly affected. There is no action on the heart, and death is due to paralysis of the muscles of respiration. Owing, in part, to rapid excretion, curara is not poisonous when administered by the mouth. (11) Coniine, Gelseminine, Sparteine., and Loheline.—Coniine, the active principle of the hemlock, was the first vegetable alkaloid to be prepared synthetically. Two others, Gelsemi- nine (Gelsemium semper'virens, the white jas- mine) and Sparteine {Cytisus scoparivs, the broom), resemble it in action. Coniine paralyses the voluntary muscles and respiration, the mind remaining clear to the end. Most specimens of the alkaloid contain the more potent methyl-coniine, as well as normal coniine, hence the action is variable. Normal coniine has a curara action on the nerve endings ; methyl coniine acts chiefly on the cord, paralysing reflex action. The other effects of the alkaloid are less important, and the drug is little used in therapeutics at the present time. Gelseminine, which is found along with gel- semine (vide supra), is a more powerful cord depressant than coniine; hence the paralysis which it causes is central, not peripheral. It is a mydriatic, and paralyses accommodation when applied to the eye. It difters from hemlock in producing sensory paralysis and, ultimately, loss of tactile sensibility; on this account it finds its chief sphere of usefulness as an analgesic. Sparteine is less poisonous than either of the preceding. It is said to act by paralysing the motor nerve endings. In small doses it increases cardiac diastole, without diminishing the strength of the contraction. The diuretic virtues of broom tops are due, not to sparteine but to scoparine, which acts on the renal epithelium. Loheline {Lobelia injlata) resembles coniine and nicotine. Among other actions it depresses the vagus, and hence is said to relax bronchial spasm. (12) Nicotine.—Although tobacco has now fallen into disuse in therapeutics, the fact that of all drugs it is the most widely used by all ranks and conditions of men necessitates a brief account of its physiological action. Nicotine is the only important toxic constituent of tobacco : during the preparation of the leaf a volatile oil is developed, and partly on this, and partly, too, on decomposition products of nicotine, do the varying qualities and flavours of tobacco depend. Action on the Circulation.—The ganglia of the vagus are first stimulated and then para- lysed. The former effect—i.e. slowing of the heart—is prevented by atropine, which para- lyses the nerve endings, and by curara, which paralyses the ganglia. Nicotine also acts directly on the heart muscle, or the termina- tions of the accelerator nerve, which are first stimulated, then depressed. This action on ganglia—stimulation followed by depression— is a key to some other effects of nicotine. It causes a temporary rise in arterial pressure, due to constriction of the arterioles from stimulation of their ganglionic apparatus, but this is followed by a fall below normal. It also increases and then checks the flow of saliva and other secre- tions. The stimulant action on the ganglia of the wall of the alimentary canal increases peri- stalsis, leads to vomiting and diarrhoea, and culminates in a tetanic contraction of the in- testines. The pupil is at first contracted, then dilated. Respiration is accelerated, then para- lysed. There is increased reflex excitability of the cord, followed by depression. The most important symptoms caused by the abuse of tobacco are a sense of oppression at the heart, intermission and irregularity of the pulse; toxic amblyopia, showing itself by central scotoma, especially for colours ; nervous- ness and tremor. In addition to these, chronic dyspepsia may be caused, and various local ailments of the mouth and throat. There is a fair degree of probability that certain groups of symptoms due to arterial disease—e.g. inter- mittent claudication—occur chiefly in heavy smokers, and the physiological action of the drug in causing contraction of the arterioles to some extent explains this. (13) Atrojrine Series. — In several of the Solanncecf {Atrojya belladonna, Hyo.%cyamus niyer. Datura stramonium, Dohoisia myoporo- ides, etc.) alkaloids agreeing in their general