445 PHARMACOLOGY acidity of the gastric contents. By this diminu- tion of the acidity of the chyme the normal stimulus to the pancreatic secretion is lessened. After absorption the normal alkalinity of the tissues is increased, and the acidity of the urine diminished. The effects on metabolism and uric acid excretion are disputed, but the out- put of urea is increased and that of ammonia diminished. Lithium is more active than either sodium or potassium. The urate of lithia is about four times as soluble as sodium urate, hence lithium carbonate is said to be antago- nistic to the deposit of urates in the tissues. 2. Ammonium.—Watery solutions of ammonia are, like the preceding, irritants to the skin and mucous membrane ; their results are, however, less persistent, being vesication rather than corrosion. They act as gastric irritants, and as stimulants to the nervous system and the cir- culation, the last effect being probably reflex from the action on the stomach. 3. Magnesium.—The oxide and carbonate are very insoluble; they act as antacids and as mild saline aperients. (6) Chlorates, Sulphites, Oxalates, Hypophos- phites.—Chlorates.—The principal of these is the potash salt. In large doses they are toxic, their action being that of a blood poison. They convert hsemoglobin into methaemoglobin, which is unable to supply oxygen to the tissues, hence asphyxia results. Ultimately the corpuscles are broken up, and the debris and pigment passing into the plasma are excreted in the urine or deposited in the viscera. The symptoms of poisoning may be inferred from the action of the salt: there is diarrhoea and vomiting, cya- nosis and dyspnoea, heart failure and prostra- tion ; the urine may be suppressed or scanty, containing detritus of corpuscles, and giving the spectra of methaemoglobin and hsematin. These poisonous symptoms have chiefly been met with in the young, and idiosyncrasy seems not un- common. Thus a drachm has proved fatal to a child, while 2| ounces have been taken by an adult without causing discomfort. Chlorate of potash is mildly antiseptic ; it does not, as was thought, give up oxygen to the blood. Sulphites are weak antiseptics. They liberate sulphur dioxide in the stomach, and in large doses are poisonous. Oxalates are general protoplasmic poisons, and are very irritating to the gastro-intestinal tract. They are highly poisonous. Owing to their power of precipitating calcium salts, they prevent the coagulation of the blood, as well as of milk by the rennet ferment. Hypophosphites have merely a salt action. (7) Halogens and their Compounds.—1. Bro- mides.—As the potassium salt is the most widely used, its action has received more attention than that of the other bromides. It depresses cortical excitability, local stimuli producing little or no effect on the brains of animals under its influence. Its sedative action extends to the mental processes, which become sluggish, and are expressed in slow, hesitating speech. Eventually drowsiness and sleep result. Reflex excitability—e.g. that of the throat and con- junctiva—is also diminished, and after very large doses there is some cutaneous aneesthesia. The anaphrodisiac eff'ect of bromide is due to a similar blunting of sensibility and loss of reflex excitability in the sphere of the genito-urinary tract. The pulse becomes weak and slow—a potash action. Bromides are rapidly absorbed, and tend to accumulate in the body; but after a given amount has been taken the tissues become saturated, and as much as is ingested is excreted. The salt is eliminated by the milk and sweat, but chiefly by the urine, in which it can be detected for a considerable period after the administration has been suspended. From its cumulative action chronic poisoning is liable to occur. The symptoms of Bromism are pus- tular and erythematous rashes, gastric disturb- ance, foetid breath, slight coryza, inco-ordination, dulness, and loss of memory. Bromine itself is highly irritating and is little used in therapeutics. 2. Iodine and Iodides. — Iodine is a local irritant to the skin, and by its vapour to the respiratory passages. If a sufficient quantity be absorbed lodism results ; the symptoms differ from those to be described in the next paragraph in that rapidity of the pulse, nervousness, and emaciation are more marked, which point to the drug's action on the thyroid being the cause of the symptoms which it brings about. Iodide of Potash.—Except that it produces the symptoms of iodism, the pharmacology of the drug is little understood. lodism may follow small doses in susceptible persons; its most prominent symptoms are connected with the mouth and respiratory tract—catarrh (ex- tending sometimes to the conjunctivae, frontal sinuses, and bronchi), salivation, and pharyngitis. Next in frequency come skin eruptions, chiefly of the bullous or crusted type. Neuralgia, and tremor or paralysis may occur. The drug tends to produce wasting of certain glands, par- ticularly the breast and testicle. Iodides are rapidly absorbed, and rapidly excreted by many channels—urine, saliva, milk, and respiratory mucosa. In all probability iodine is, to some extent at least, set free in the tissues. The amount of iodothyrin in the thyroid is increased by iodides, and some of the symptoms of iodism may be due to thyroid over-activity. Iodoform is chiefly employed locally on account of its reputed antiseptic action; it seems, however, that this has been greatly over-estimated. Possibly its value may be due to the liberation of free iodine. It is a feeble local anaesthetic, and may be absorbed from wounds and cause poisoning. The first sign of this is the odour of the drug in the breath,