NOSE—POSTNASAL ADENOID GROWTHS 93 form or other generally precedes the first development of symptoms of adenoids. It is, moreover, by no means uncommon to find some other form of nasal stenosis in the anterior nares, such as vascular engorgement of the inferior turbinals, or, in other children, mal- formations of the septum. Further, it is possible that where there has been anterior obstruction antecedent to the development of the adenoids, the abnormally low inspiratory pressure behind the point of narrowing, which is necessary in order that the pressure in front may be sufficient to force the air-current through the constricted channel, accounts for an overfilling of the capillaries of the mucous membrane lining the partial vacuum, and thus for hypernutrition of the lymphoid tissue. For, as I shall presently show, even when there is a grave degree of nasal obstruction, patients, and more especially very young children, possess the instinct of nose-breathing as distin- guished from buccal so strongly that they persist in its practice in spite of the great effort necessitated, and in spite even of insufficiency in the oxygen-supply. So much for the etiology of the aff"ection. When we arrive at a consideration of the symptoms we are surprised, considering their definite nature, and the fact that the whole parental public is now acquainted with the more important among them, that it is necessary to devote so much space to their dis- cussion. Yet although they are so definite and suggestive, there is not one that can be altogether relied upon in diagnosis; indeed, even an objective examination, whether by post- rhinal inspection or by palpation, cannot alto- gether be trusted in determining the necessity for operation, as will presently be explained. Briefly we may assert, that although for an accurate diagnosis objective examination may be essential, it is nevertheless equally im- portant, in deciding whether necessity exist for operative interference, that we do not rely so much upon such examination as upon the symptoms. And this somewhat paradoxical claim will be immediately substantiated. The symptom to which the imperfectly in- formed mostly trust in determining the presence of adenoids is, doubtless, buccal respiration. Yet it must be remembered that this is alto- gether an acquired habit, and is not usually found in infants ; while not infrequently children as old as four years still, during waking as well as sleep, adopt nose-breathing, in spite of grave degree of posterior or anterior nasal stenosis. Indeed, the custom is with nearly all children, and not infrequently with adults, to adopt nose-breathing chiefly, often entirely, during sleep in spite of the impossibility of sustaining free respiration through the nostrils.^ And we 1 Vide Postnasal Orowths. By C. A. Parker, 1894, p. 35. must be careful not to assume that because the lower jaw is dropped, or the lips widely open, that the patient is therefore breathing through the mouth. In young infants this is strikingly not the case, as can easily be verified by placing a morsel of down in front alternately of mouth and nostrils. Many children, after the removal of all obstruction, still carry the lips apart and the jaw dropped ; yet it will be found that, during sleep at any rate, they are breath- ing entirely through the nose. The determina- tion of the point while a child is awake is obviously more difficult. And even before operation, and while the child is snoring loudly, it will be generally found that respiration is not conducted, as would appear, through the mouth. One could hardly understand, if these children habitually breathed through the mouth, why they should suffer from such definite proofs of insufficient aeration. A fre- quent observation among the parents of these cases is that they recover from their ansemia and tendency to cold-taking whenever they are at the seaside, but that they immediately lose all they have gained from the freer supply of air in such localities on returning to town life, and immediately begin their old habits of taking cold upon the least provocation. The only possible explanation lies in the supposition that, in spite of buccal respiration, they fail to obtain a free supply of air. Consequently, we shall not be much surprised at learning that very young children, more especially under two years of age, who have not yet learned to supplement the obstructed nasal respiration with buccal breathing, frequently keep the mouth habitually closed in spite of very grave postnasal obstruc- tion. And consequently, once more, we shall not be surprised to discover that the younger the patient the greater the gravity of the symptoms for a given degree of nasal stenosis. In older children, who have learned the advantage of mouth-breathing, we more often find grave degrees of nasal obstruction without there being any material evidence of defective nutrition; while I am tolerably convinced, for reasons to which I shall refer again, that in older children the mischief to the general nutrition may be less in cases where the obstruction is sufficient to enforce the entire adoption of mouth-breathing. From a con- sideration of such facts the absurdity will at once be apparent of the argument adduced in quarters where one would have looked for more wisdom, that if only children were compelled to breathe through the nose their adenoids would spontaneously disappear ! I can conceive of no greater ignorance than to use any moral or mechanical persuasion to compel children to nose-breathing, seeing that the instinct to adopt it is paramount, provided a sufficient supply of air can be secured. Better must it be for them to breathe through the mouth, and thus breathe