323 PARALYSIS may even be so when Romberg's symptom is well marked. In exceptional cases there may be anesthesia of one or both extremities, which does not always persist; in other cases there has been loss of sensibility to heat and cold; while in others, again, there has been delayed sensation and diminution of the acuteness of sensation. Subjective sensations are occasionally com- plained of, numbness of the hands and of the soles of the feet, and these are often associated with coldness and blueness of the extremities. Lightning pains have been noted in rare in- stances, but visceral crises do not occur. The muscles react to faradism, although they not infrequently require a stronger current than normal, and it has also been noted that the patient will bear without any discomfort a far more powerful cuiTent than can be borne by a healthy individual. No polar change is de- monstrable with the galvanic current, although there may be some diminution in the response. Myotatic irritability of the muscles is lost. Some defect of articulation is nearly always present: the words are jerked out and interrupted by sudden and irregular pauses, and they are slurred over so that the ends of the longer words become clipped, and the first letter often elided, the general effect being that the speech is slow and drawling. The movements of the palate and larynx are normal, although abductor palsy of the cords has been noted. Mastication and deghitition are normal; there is at times some difficulty in retaining the saliva. It is genei-ally stated that in the majority of cases there is no mental defect, and this is no doubt true ; on the other hand, it is not un- common to meet with marked mental defect. The expression of the patient, together with the slow utterance, often suggests some mental im- pairment which is not borne out on examination ; but, quite apart from any such error, not a few cases exhibit marked mental defect. It is difficult to estimate the exact proportion of cases in which such defect occurs, but Griffiths gives the number as 21 out of 143 cases; he, however, qualifies the statement by saying that in most of these the affection was more than questionable. The superficial reflexes are usually present and brisk; the knee-jerks are absent, although in exceptional cases they may be present, and even exaggerated; and in these latter cases ankle clonus may also be obtained, as in a case reported by Gladstone in Brain (1899). The plantar reflexes, when they can be obtained, give a definite extensor response. The arm-jerks cannot, as a rule, be obtained. There is no incontinence of urine or fiBces ; the act of micturition, however, may be some- what delayed. Sexual power may be lost, but as the disease frequently commences before puberty, it is difficult to state how often this occurs. Menstruation is also often delayed. Pathological Anatomy.—The brain and cere- bellum usually appear normal to the naked eye ; the spinal cord is smaller and shrunken, and lies in a loose dural sac which contains an excess of cerebro-spinal fluid. The pia-arachnoid over the posterior columns is thickened and adherent to the posterior column of the cord. On section of the cord the grey and translucent appearance of the sclerosed posterior columns is obvious to the naked eye, and the posterior roots appear very small; the anterior roots are normal. Examined microscopically, there is degenera- tion both of the lateral and posterior columns, that in the posterior columns extending from the sacral region to the posterior column nuclei in the medulla, the column of GoU being more affected than that of Burdach. In the lumbo- sacral region of the cord the endogenous fibres in the posterior columns, that is to say, the septo-marginal tract and the cornu-commisural zone, are left unaff'ected. Lissauer's tract is commonly affected, and Clarke's column is also involved. In so far, then, as the posterior columns are concerned, the lesion corresponds very closely to that found in tabes. Besides the affection of the posterior columns there is degeneration in the direct cerebellar tract, and also in the ascending antero-lateral tract of Gowers. The crossed pyramidal tracts show marked degeneration in most cases, but the degeneration in others is slight, and has been regarded not as that of the efferent fibres, but as that of afferent fibres. In advanced cases, however, the pyramidal tracts are very markedly aff'ected, and in rare cases the direct pyramidal tract may also be involved. Although the degeneration is most marked in the tracts above named, yet it is not limited to them, but tends to involve a good deal of the periphery of the cord. There is always a considerable amount of connective tissue replacing the fibres that have undergone degeneration. There is frequently extensive degeneration of the fibres entering the posterior horn. In a few cases changes have been found in the cells of the anterior horns. The posterior roots between the ganglion and the cord show extensive degeneration. In these roots some very fine nerve fibres are often present, but by far the greater part of the root is composed of empty sheaths and connective tissue; these fine fibres have been considered to be embryo- logical in type. The roots in the lumbar region generally show more change than those either in the dorsal or cervical region. The posterior root ganglia appear smaller than normal, the cells are small and pigmented, and the finer granules of the cells stain badly. There is marked degeneration of the fibres