PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 552 to the pelvic ganglia. They are vaso-constrictor, inhibitory to the colon, and motor to the bladder, uterus and vagina, and the retractor penis. (5) Arm.—These fibres, coming out by the fourth to the tenth dorsal nerves, have their synapses in the ganglia of the sympathetic chain, and passing back into the spinal nerves by the grey rami, course to the blood-vessels, hairs, and sweat glands of the limb. (6) Leg.—The fibres take origin from the eleventh dorsal to the third lumbar nerves, have their cell stations in the lateral ganglia, and pass to the leg in the same way as do the fibres to the arm. CORPORA quAeRiGtMiNA PONS MEDULLA. CORD. Fig. 86.—Mesial section through the brain and upper part of tions at which the sections figured in later diagrams have Medulla, Figs. 93 and 94 ; Pons, Fig. 96, p. 559; Corpora, Fig.! B. The Cranial and Sacral Fibres. — These pass out from the upper and lower ends of the cord, and they do not pass through the lateral ganglia but have their cell station in some of the collateral ganglia. (1) The third cranial nerve carries fibres which have their synapses in the ciliary ganglion, and pass on to the sphincter pupillte and ciliary muscle. (2) The seventh nerve carries fibres through the chorda tympani to cell stations in the sub- maxillary and sublingual ganglia. These are secretory to the submaxillary and sublingual glands. (3) The ninth nerve sends fibres to the parotid gland, which have their cell station in the otic ganglion. (4) The vagus sends inhibitory fibres to the heart, which form synapses in the cardiac plexus. It also sends motor fibres to the oesophagus and stomach, which, in some animals at least, have the cell stations in the ganglion of the trunk. (5) The nervi erigentes come off from the second and third sacral nerves, and pass to the hypogastric plexus near the bladder where the fibres have their cell stations. They are the vaso-dilator nerves to the pelvic organs, inhibit the retractor penis, and are motor to the bladder, colon, and rectum. {b) Ingoing Fibres.—The course of these from the viscera is not so clearly known ; but they appear to enter the main nerve largely by the white rami. In the nor- mal condition stimu- lation of their peri- pheral endings does not lead to modifica- tions of conscious- ness, and is therefore not accompanied by pain. But in ab- normal conditions painful sensations are produced. In some cases, abnor- mal stimulation of visceral nerves leads to painful sensations referred to the cu- taneous distribution of the spinal nerve with which they are connected. Thus, dis- ease of the heart is often accompanied by pain in the dis- tribution of the upper dorsal nerves in the left arm, with which the visceral fibres to the heart are associated. the spinal cord to show the posi- been made. Cord, p. 553, Fig. 87 ; )9, p. 562. 2. The Central Nervous System Spinal Cord and Brain.—The anatomy and histology of each part of the central nervous system should be mastered before its physiology is studied. An outline sufficient to make the description of the physiology intelligible is all that is given here. A. Spinal Cord Structure.—The spinal cord is a more or less cylindrical mass of nerve tissue which passes from the base of the brain down the vertebral canal. It terminates in a pointed extremity at the level of the 1st lumbar vertebra. There