ORIENTATION 191 occasionally it signifies the position of the foetus (French writers). Orifice.—An aperture or opening; e.g. anal orifice, eustachian orifice, mitral orifice, vaginal orifice, etc. The name orificial surgery has been given to operations on the body orifices, especially the anus and urogenital orifices. Orig'a.num.—A herb belonging to the Labiatfe (Wild Marjoram or Sweet Marjoram), having a pleasant fragrance; it is popularly employed for sprains, bruises, and rheumatic pains. Orizabi n.—Convolvulin, Cg^Hj^Onj. Ornithodorus.—A variety of tick be- lieved to cause ixodiasis or tick-fever in some parts of Africa. OroySl Fever. — Carrion's disease or verruga peruana. See Verrugo Peruana. OrthO-.—In compound words ortho- (Gr. op^ds, straight) means straight, true, or normal; e.g. ortho-dontia (making straight the teeth, or the correction of dental irregularities), ortho- phosphates (the common phosphates), etc. Orthodiagraphy.—A clinical method of examination in which the outlines of the heart are determined with accuracy by means of X-rays ; the result is termed an orthodiagram, and the instrument an orthodiagraph. See article by Walsham and Dally in Brit. Med. Journ., p. 651, September 14, 1907. Orthoform.—An anaesthetic and anti- septic powder, being the methyl ester of paramido-meta-hydroxybenzoic acid; it is given in doses of 7 to 15 grains. Orthognathy.—The condition of being straight-jawed, the gnathic angle being between 83° and 90°. See Anthropology. Orthopaedics.—The science of the correction of deformities, especially of those which are congenital, as seen in children (Gr. opSds, straight or regular, rrats, a child). See Deformities ; Palate ; etc. Orthopnoea. — That type of difficult breathing which can be overcome by the erect posture. See Asphyxia {Definitions); Dyspncea. Orthoptic. — Relating to normal bin- ocular vision. See Strabismus {Orthoptic Treat- ment). Orthotonus.—That form of tetanus or cramp in which the body lies straight and rigid. See Tetanus {Clinical Features). Oryza Sativa.—The seeds of this plant constitute rice, from which ground rice {Oryzoe Farina) is obtained. Os.—A bone or the mouth, e.g. the os pubis, OS calcis, OS externum uteri, etc. Osazones. — The crystalline compound formed by the monosaccharids and phenylhy- drazin. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Food-Stuffs, Carbohydrates). Os Calcis. See Ankle-Joint, Region of. Injuries {Fractures of Os Calcis); Ankle-Joint, Region of {Operations, Excision of Os Calcis). Oscheo-.—In compound words oscheo- (Gr. ocrxtov, scrotum) means relating to the scrotum, e.g. oscheoplasty (plastic surgery of the scrotum), etc. Osiander'S Sign. —A sign of early pregnancy consisting in the palpation of pulsa- ting vessels in the vaginal fornices, especially in the anterior one. Osier's Disease. — Polycythaemia cyanotica, or that morbid condition in which there is excess of red blood corpuscles, enlarge- ment of the spleen, chronic cyanosis, and con- stipation, without any sign of disease of the lungs, heart, or kidneys. OsmiC Acid.—The tetroxide of osmium (OsO^), employed in histology for the staining of fat and as a fixing agent; in medicine it has been used in neuralgia, sciatica, etc. Osmidrosis. — A morbid state of the skin characterised by the secretion of foul- smelling sweat, bromidrosis. See Skin, Diseases OF Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Bromidrosis). Osmo-.—In f compound words osmo- (Gr. dcr/xiy, smell) means relating to odours, e.g. an osmometer or instrument for the measurement of the acuteness of smell, etc. Osmosis.—The passage of fluids through a porous septum or organic membrane ; diffusion (Gr. a(o-/xds, push or thrust). Os Tribasilare.—A single bone formed by the premature ossification and union of the bones of the basis cranii; it is found in some cases of osteogenesis imperfecta. See Pregnancy, Intra-uterine DiSEASES^(i^ce!;a^ Bone Diseases), Os Uteri.—The opening of the cervical canal of the uterus into the vagina {os uteri externum) or into the cavity of the body of the uterus (os uteri internum). See Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus, Cervix); Labour, Physiology of {Passages); Labour, Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages). Osphy-.—In compound words osphy- (Gr. ocrc^us, the loin) means relating to the lumbar region; e.g. osphyalgia or lumbago, osphyocele