12 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF from the stroma of the smaller cutaneous nerves. They cause comparatively slight symptoms, and may persist for an indefinite number of years without producing results more serious than disfigurement. 2. Plexiform neuro-fibroma is a growth of similar nature, but differs in that, instead of forming numerous masses over the entire surface of the body, it is restricted to some one region, as the side of the head and neck. These masses grow to an enormous size, but still consist of fibrous, fibro-myxomatous, or fibro-sarcomatous growths of the nerves of the affected region. They form soft, doughy, often pendulous tumours composed of ramifying cords due to the huge nerves which produce their bulk. Closely allied is elephantiasis neuromatosa, in which the tumour growth spreads from the nerves to the subcu- taneous and other adjacent tissues, producing a general thickening which is also described as pachydermatocele. The great majority of these forms of diffused and disseminated neuro-fibroma are not suscept- ible of removal, and operation is the less advis- able, as it is commonly followed by rapidly infiltrating sarcomatous growths in such portions of the mass as may have to be left behind. When they affect the limbs, ampiitation is the most satisfactory method of treatment of severe cases. Meralgia Paresthetica A few years ago Bernhardt drew attention to a rare affection, characterised by partesthesia, in the distribution of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The patients complain of numbness, tingling or aching sensation, along the outer side of the thigh. Pain is only felt on great over-strain, or through pressure on the affected region. Often there is some subjective disturbance of sensation—hyperalgesia, hyper- sesthesia, diminution of tactile sensation or of the temperature sense. The paraesthesia is most marked, or is only present, when the patient is standing or walk- ing, probably because the fascia of the outer part of the thigh is then most tense. Pain does not occur when the patient is at rest. Roth has given the name meralgia paraes- thetica to the affection. The duration is variable, from a few months to many years. It is not followed by any other nerve lesion. In two cases faradism at the parsesthetic area has been followed by good results. Multiple Peripheral Neuritis General Etiology 12 Alcoholic Neuritis . . . .13 Arsenical ,, .... 17 Neuritis from Arsenical Beer . . 18 Lead Paralysis ..... 20 Mercurial Neuritis .... 22 Diphtheritic Neuritis . . . .22 Puerperal „ . . . .23 Diabetic ,, .... 23 Other Forms of Neuritis . . .24 Treatment . . . . . .24 General Etiology.—The most frequent cause of multiple peripheral neuritis is the action of some toxic substance on the nervous system. The most common form is "alcoholic" neuritis, produced by excess of alcoholic beverages— spirits and beer. Chronic poisoning by lead and arsenic are also common causes of peripheral neviritis. Rare cases have been recorded in which the disease has apparently been due to poisoning by the following substances—carbon disulphide, naphtha, dinitrobenzene, aniline oil, carbon mon- oxide, mercury, copper, zinc, and silver). The disease may be due to a previous infec- tious fever or acute illness. Diphtheria is the most common cause of neui'itis of this form. Cases are on record in which pai'alysis, apparently due to peripheral neuritis, has followed, and has been attributed to, typhoid fever, influenza, erysipelas, septicccmia, scarlet fever, pneumonia, acute rheumatism, gonorrhoea, malaria, dysentery. The tropical disease beriberi is a form of peripheral neuritis. Multiple neuritis occasionally follows parturi- tion or develops during pregnancy (puei'peral neuritis). A form of multiple neuritis associated with diabetes mellitus has been clearly demonstrated. Tuberculosis has occasionally caused multiple neuritis ; and a few rare cases are on record in which the disease has been attributed to syphilis, gout, and chronic rheumatism (Bury). In leprosy peripheral neuritis is common. In rare cases of severe ansemia and in cancer, degeneration of the peripheral nerves has been found on microscopical examination, but often there have been no neuritic symptoms during life. In old age a form of peripheral neuritis has been described, which has been attributed to arterio-sclerosis. Occasionally the only cause appeal's to be exposure to cold ; and there are cases for which no cause can be made out (idiopathic multiple neuritis). Oppenheim and, more recently, Remak have drawn attention to the fact that a combination of toxic influences, such as lead or other metallic poison with alcohol, or of alcohol and the poison of some infectious disease, is particularly powerful in producing neuritis. A small dose of a poison, which cannot be regarded as toxic, is able to produce multiple neuritis when the individual is also under the influence of a second poison. Multiple neuritis occurs most frequently in