PARALYSIS 307 suffocation owing to impaction of food in the glottis, or by bronchitis or pneumonia induced by inhalation of liquids and food particles into the lungs. Treatment.—Every effort must be made to improve the patient's general nutrition in the hope that the morbid tendency of the nerve elements to degenerate may in this way be lessened. A liberal dietary, supplemented by cod-liver oil and extract of malt, fulfil these requirements in so far as progressive muscular atrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are concerned; but when there is bulbar paralysis the feeding of the patients becomes a matter of serious moment. A careful watch has to be kept over them while they are at meals, for food may readily become lodged in the glottis and cause fatal suffocation. They may experience difficulty in swallowing both liquid and solid foods, though happily they can as a rule swallow soft pultaceous foods better; but even this becomes impossible in the final stages of the disease. Life is then to be pre- served by artificial feeding by the nasal tube. Fresh air, especially in the country or by the sea, is beneficial, and even a sea voyage may be expedient in some cases. All depressing influences, whether physical or mental, must, as far as possible, be avoided; hence, although exercise is indicated, it must never be taken in such amount as to cause fatigue. The most careful precautions are needed to prevent these patients from taking cold, for in many of them the muscles of respiration are weak, and they are thus ill-prepared to combat any bronchial or pulmonary affection. They ought always to be warmly clad, and should wear flannel next to the skin. All tonic medicines are of service in the treatment of these affections, so that arsenic, iron, quinine, and phosphorus are all indicated. Strychnia is of special service in the treatment of progressive muscular atrophy and bulbar paralysis in which there are no signs of lateral sclerosis; but it is contraindicated in amyo- trophic lateral sclerosis, for it tends to increase the spasticity that is present in this form of the disease. The drug is supposed to be more effective when administered by subcutaneous injection than when given by the mouth (Sir Wm. Gowers). Local treatment by means of galvanism and massage is most important for improving the nutrition of the affected muscles. In making use of the galvanic current the positive pole ought to be placed at the back of the neck, and the negative pole should be stroked over the muscles, while the strength of current used ought to be just enough to evoke a distinct contraction of the muscle. The current should be applied to the tongvie and palate as well as to the facial muscles when there is bulbar paralysis. Massage not only improves the nutrition of the muscles, but may possibly reduce the amount of spasm in the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis form of the disease, while passive movements are of service in preventing or reducing contracture. Bulbar Paralysis—Definition.—-An affection in which the lesion is in the medulla oblongata and pons, or in which it involves the cranial nerves derived from these parts, so that para- lysis of the lips, tongue, palate, pharynx, and larynx results, and in consequence there is articulatory disturbance of speech, which is also nasal in quality, difficulty in swallowing, and it may be aphonia. Cases of bulbar paralysis fall into one of two classes, acute or chronic, according to the mode of onset of the symptoms, and the former class includes a variety in which the onset is sudden, and another in which it is rapid, though not sudden. Moreover, the manifestations of the different forms of the affections differ accord- ing as the lesion is supra-nuclear, nuclear, or infra-nuclear in position. There are also two affections known respec- tively as " pseudo - bulbar paralysis" (double hemiplegia) and "asthenic bulbar paralysis" (myasthenia gravis) that may be considered with advantage in this connection. Acute Bulbar Paralysis.—The sudden form of acute paralysis is always due to a vascular lesion, most commonly thrombosis or embolism, though htiemorrhage accounts for some cases of the kind. Most of the people that are attacked are at or beyond the middle period of life, which is accounted for by the fre- quency of atheroma then, but young people may suffer owing to embolism, or as a result of thrombosis consequent on syphilitic arteritis. The onset is quite sudden : a patient may go to bed feeling perfectly well, and may wake next morning and find himself paralysed, or the attack may come on during the day, in whicli case giddiness is commonly experienced, and the patient may vomit. Consciousness is lost in some cases. The paralysis that results is usually bilateral, but commonly affects struc- tures on the two sides unequally and irregularly ; it is exceptional to meet with strictly unilateral paralysis, though cases of the kind do occur. The lips, tongue, soft palate, pharynx, and larynx may all be involved. The palate hangs motionless during attempts at phonation, the tongue can neither be protruded nor moved from side to side in the mouth, and the lips cannot be pursed as in the attempt to whistle. Articulation may be impossible and phonation weak, while deglutition is difficult, and food either regurgitates through the nose or enters the larynx and induces coughing. Instead of complete paralysis of such wide range the palsy may be less severe, and some parts may be affected while others escape. Thus, with complete paralysis of the tongue