NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 115 of origin of the pus. To effect this the middle turbinated bone should be removed in order to expose the anterior wall of the sphenoidal cavity. It is probable that in some cases this has already been partly done, where disease of the anterior ethmoidal or frontal sinuses has either been suspected or has actually been found to exist. It is true that cases are occasionally met with where a wide olfactory cleft permits of inspection of the sphenoidal orifice by anterior rhinoscopy, but such cases are extremely rare. Moreover, in some instances the superior turbinated body inter- feres with direct inspection of that opening, which is subject to variation in its position. The whole of the middle turbinated bone should therefore be removed (p. 120). (c?) Inspection, Probing, and Catheterisation of the Ostium Sphenoidale.—After an interval of two or three days the nose should again be inspected by anterior rhinoscopy, and all traces of crusts and purulent discharge in the post- nasal region thoroughly removed. This pro- cedure demands the same care as it did in the case of examination of the maxillary and frontal sinuses. The sphenoidal opening may then become visible (Fig. 2). Should pus be seen issuing from it, the diagnosis is established. Should no discharge be visible, a cotton-wool tampon must be packed against the ostium and left in position for half an hour. On its removal, the presence of pus on the deep sur- face of the wool will testify to its origin in the sphenoidal cavity. The introduction of a sphenoidal sinus cannula made after Griinwald's pattern, followed by inflation or syringing of the cavity, will furnish further proof of the presence of a chronic suppuration. It is re- commended that a probe should next be intro- duced, and an attempt made to ascertain the condition of the walls of the cavity. Great care should attend this manipulation, especially when the roof of the cavity is under examina- tion. As the sinus varies considerably in size in different skulls, it is impossible to form an accurate estimate of the distance to which the probe may be passed. If on anatomical grounds it is impossible to see the sphenoidal orifice by direct inspection, some authors advocate and practise perforation of the anterior wall of the sinus with a sharp instrument. Thus Schaffer has employed a spoon probe, while Spiess recommends an electromotor trephine. This operation, how- ever, demands the greatest care, and should not be undertaken without due regard to its possible dangers. Attention should next be turned to the ■diagnosis of suppuration in the posterior eth- moidal cells, whether occurring alone or in conjunction with suppuration in the sphenoidal cavity. The sphenoidal orifice should be plugged with a cotton-wool tampon after careful cleansing of its vicinity. If pus then collects in the nose anteriorly to the plug, or even stains the nasal surface of the wool, a suspicion of ethmoidal disease is raised. A probe with its point bent outwards should then be passed in the direction of these cells, and an attempt made to further investigate their condition. 7. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in THE Accessory Sinuses In considering the treatment of chronic sup- puration we must be guided by general surgical principles, and endeavour to determine in each case what pathological conditions are present and how they may be most satisfactorily dealt with. In all cases in which nasal polypi and hypertrophies of the mucous membrane exist they must be removed, so that partial occlusion of the natural orifices is got rid of, and freer drainage thus established. In the case of the antrum diseased teeth should be extracted, whether they can be definitely proved to be the causal factor or not.- When there is a polypoid condition of the lining membrane of the sinus, or when there is caries of its osseous walls, steps must be taken to deal with these conditions. The frequency of associated sinus mischief must be borne in mind, and the possibility that the sinus under treatment may be reinfected by pus, which is being secreted in one of the other cavities, must not be lost sight of. Until these points are elucidated and dealt with all the con- ditions of successful treatment cannot be fulfilled. A. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in the Maxillary Antrum. — In the treatment of chronic suppuration of this sinus one or two courses may be adopted: either to open the sinus through the socket of a tooth, and regu- larly wash it out for a varying period of time, or to perform a radical operation. Some difference of opinion exists regarding the choice of operation in every case. There are un- doubtedly a number of cases in which a course of irrigation suffices to effect a cure, though no definite statement can be made as to the length of time necessary to bring this about. There are other cases, again, which from the first are doomed to failure by this method, but un- fortunately we are not always able to say which these cases are. When the lining membrane of the antrum has been converted into polypoid tissue, only the radical operation will prove successful; when such changes have not taken place, a reasonable trial should be given to the simpler line of treatment. It is difficult, if not impossible, to say what the condition of the mucosa is unless one first opens into the sinus to see; and the ordinary alveolar opening does not permit of inspection of the cavity. The duration of the affection does not altogether help us, as cavities which have discharged pus for some years are sometimes cured under simple lavage, while those of more recent origin