336 PARAPHIMOSIS rhoea,GompUcations); Venereal Disease {Para- phimosis). Pa,ra,phonia,.—A morbid alteration of the voice. Pa.ra,phora.. — Mental derangement; usually a mild form of insanit3\ Pa.ra,phra.Sia,. — Incoherence of speech as a clinical feature in aphasia. Pa,ra.p h re n es is.—Mental derangement, especially deliiium. ParaphrenitiS.—(1) Mental derange- ment ; (2) inflammation of the diaphragm, re- garded as the cause of (1). Paraph rosy ne Calentura. See Calenture. Paraplasm.—(l) A heteroplasm or neo- plasm ; or (2) the non-protoplasmic portion of a cell-substance, the paramitom {Flemming) or deutoplasm. Parapleg'ia. — Paralysis of the lower limbs and of the lower part of the trunk (Gr. ■n-apa, beside, and TrAi/cro-ftv, to strike). See Alcoholism (Motor Variations); Aorta, Thor- acic, Aneurysm {Terminations); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Paralysis); Defor- mities {Arising from Cerebral and Spinal Para- lysis, Compression - Paraplegia); Dysentery {Complications); Hysteria {Motor Disorders) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lymphadenoma, Pressure Symptoms); Malin- gering {Nervous Diseases); Meningitis, Epi- demic Cbrebro-spinal {Symptoms, Paralysis) ; Paraly'SIS {Spastic Paraplegia ; Familial Type; Syphilitic Paraplegia; Congenital Type; In- fantile Type); Paralysis {Disseminated Sclerosis, Diagnosis); Pellagra {Sympto7ns, Nervous); Spinal Cord, Medical (Vascular Lesions, Tumours, etc.); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Compression - Paraplegia, Caisson Disease); Tabes Dorsalis ; Toxicology {Lathyrism, Symp- toms) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Paraplegia). " Parapleg^ie Flasque."—That form of compression-paraplegia in which (the trans- verse lesion being complete) the limbs are flaccid and there is no increase in the reflexes. Parapleuritis. — A slight form of pleurisy, or (sometimes) pleurodynia. ParapophysiS. — The anterior trans- verse process of a vertebra. Paraproctitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the rectum. ParapsiS.—Disordered sense of touch. Parapsoriasis.—An anomalous form of psoriasis. Pararectal Fossa.—A pouch of peri- toneum lying between the front of the rectum and the posterior wall of the pelvis on each side ; the fossa is obliterated when the bowel is full. -Difiiculty in articulation ; Inability to pro- Pararthria. disordered speech. Parasig^matism. nounce the letter s or sh. Parasinoidal Sinuses. — Irregular spaces in the dura mater of the brain communi- cating by small openings with the superior longitudinal sinus ; lacunae laterales. Parasites. Introductory . . . . .337 Protozoa— AmoehcB . Cercomonas Trypanosoma Lamblia . Coccidiida Hcemosporidia Doubtful Hcemosporidia Sa7'cos2ioridia . Infusoria— Balantidium coli . Spirochceta and Trypanosomes Trematodes— Fasciola hepatica Dicrocoelium lanceolatum . Distomum oculi humani . Opisthorchis felineus ,, conjunctus ,, sinensis . „ Buski . „ Rathouisi Mesogonimus heterophyes . ,, Westermanni Amphistonium hominis Schistosomwn hoematobium Cestodes Taenia saginata ,, solium . Cysticercus cellulosce Tcenia africana ,, asiatica. Dipylidiiim caninum Hymenolepsis nana . ,, diminuta Davainea madagascariensis Bothrioceplmlus latus „ cristatus . „ cordatus . „ Mansoni . Symptoms caused by Tapeworms Echinococcus polymorphus Nematodes .... Strongyloides intestinalis . {Anguillula intestinalis)