ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 179 Malfoi-mations of the Orbit. — These are usually congenital, and for the most part occur in connection with gross developmental anomalies of the skull. In the microcephalic and oxycephalic deformity resulting from pre- mature synostosis (Virchow), the orbits are often very shallow and the eyeballs greatly protruded. In cases of microphthalmos, or anophthalmos, the orbit may be much reduced in size, very narrow, with a defective roof, and absence of the optic foramen. Arrest of development of the bony walls is occasionally seen. The most usual site of this deformity is the upper inner part corresponding to the suture between the frontal and ethmoid bones. Through the gap in the bone the cerebral meninges may protrude and give rise to dis- placement of the eyeball and other symptoms. Acquired malformations of the orbit are not imcommon. They are generally caused by encroachment on the orbital space by one or more of the neighbouring sinuses, as the result of disease. In hydrocephalus the orbit may undergo diminution in depth and the eyeballs become protruded by pressure of the intra- cranial fluid pushing forwards the bones at the apex of the orbit. Inflammatory Affections of the Orbit (1) Beginning in the Periosteum or Bony Walls ' 179 (2) Beginning in the Cellular Tissue . 180 1. Periostitis, or, more strictly, osteo-peri- ostitis, of the orbital walls is not uncommon, and, like bone inflammations elsewhere, is, with the exception of the syphilitic form, most frequent in children. The disease most com- monly attacks the thicker part of the bones at or near the orbital margin; just as in the long- bones, the ends where there is more cancellous tissue are more often the seat of inflammation than the shaft. The signs of disease will necessarily differ according to the site of the lesion. In cases in which the disease is near the orbital margin no difficvxlty attends the diagnosis, but in instances of deeply-seated inflammation the diagnosis in an early stage may be far from easy. Two forms of inflammation are met with: acute, in which suppuration and necrosis rapidly ensue, and in which considerable destruction of bone may result; and chronic, leading to slow and progressive loss of osseous tissue, and often to the formation of fistulous openings and of irregular bony nodules about the area of dis- ease. The chronic form is the more common. In acute periostitis the symptoms are usually severe. The attack may be ushered in by fever, rigors, headache, and gastric disturbance, accompanied or quickly followed by great pain in and around the orbit, with tenderness on pressure over the bony margins, even when the periostitis is deeply seated. The eyelids be- come red and swollen, tense and bi-awny, and the ocular conjunctiva congested and oedematous. Protrusion of the eyeball soon occurs, varying in degree accoi'ding to the site of the periostitis ; and although sometimes very marked, is not as extreme as in many cases of slowly-developing orbital disease. There may also be lateral or vertical displacement of the globe. The move- ments of the eyeball are restricted; but such limitation is, as a rule, less noticeable and less general than in cases of orbital cellulitis. Pro- nounced loss of movement in all directions is indicative of extension of the inflammation to the orbital cellular tissue. In severe cases in which there is great swelling and much inter- ference with circulation, the cornea may rapidly become opaque and may slough, wholly or in part. If the bone disease is in the anterior part of the orbit, palpation may disclose a more or less resistant and possibly fluctuating swelling ; but frequently, owing to the oedema of lids and the extreme tenderness, it is impossible to gain much evidence by this method of examination. When situated more deeply the local lesion cannot be reached by the Angers. The signs are those of an acute painful inflammation, and until pus makes its way to the surface, or is found by exploratory incision, the diagnosis of periostitis remains in some doubt. The chronic form of oesteo-periostitis is a more insidious malady, and the inflammatory signs and symptoms are often very slightly marked. The pain is not severe. There may be no fever or other constitutional disturbance, and the objective evidence of disease may be limited to slight swelling of the lids and protrusion of the eyeball, with tenderness on pressure. Hence the diagnosis between an inflammatory condition and a new growth, such as sarcoma or osteoma, is sometimes very difficult. This is especially true of syphilitic periostitis, which, in the limited and slowly-increasing area of disease and its hardness to palpation, may closely resemble an exostosis. If the site of the periostitis is near the orbital margin, there are oedema of the adjoin- ing soft parts, thickening of the bone, and sometimes a fluctuating swelling. Exophthal- mos may be absent throughout, or may develop only as a late symptom. The periosteum often becomes separated from the bone over a large area, and hence an abscess, though of consider- able size, may be so diffuse as to cause but little displacement of the orbital contents. The abscess which forms tends to point anteriorly through the conjunctiva or the skin of the lids; it may, however, open into the nose or other cavities adjacent to the orbit, or pus may make its way through the roof of the orbit into the intracranial cavity. In very chronic cases in