527 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM abnormalities in moral and social conduct may be explained by reference to them, and since cases of so-called insanity are frequently depen- dent upon them. With the relationship of consciousness to these reactions of the nervous system we shall not deal at present. Consciousness is a purely metaphysical conception, and we do not know its relationship to cerebral action further than that we have no evidence that consciousness can manifest itself apart from such cerebral activity. 3. Fatigue of the Neuro-muscular Mechanism Continued action of the neuro - muscular mechanism leads to fatigue, and this may best be studied by means of some form of ergograph, an instrument which enables the response of a muscle to stimuli to be recorded. If a muscle be " voluntarily" or reflexly stimulated again and again, it finally ceases to react. But if now the outgoing nerve is stimulated, the muscle contracts at once. This shows that fatigue first manifests itself in the central synapses. If the outgoing nerve be repeatedly stimulated, after a time the muscle no longer responds, but if the muscle be directly stimulated it contracts. The muscle therefore is not fatigued. Since the electrical changes which accompany con- duction in a nerve still go on, it is obvious that the nerve still acts. It is therefore the nerve ending in the muscle which fatigues after the central synapses. Fatigue is due to the accumulation of the products of the activity of muscle, and it may be induced in a normal dog by injecting the blood from a dog which has been fatigued. In studying the neuro-muscular mechanism it is most important to keep clearly in mind the meaning of the terms stimulus, reaction, and sensation, (a) Stimulus is the change in the surroundings which produces (b) the Reaction, the modification in the action of some part of the body, (c) Sensation is the change in the consciousness which may accompany the application of a stimulus and the reaction. 4. The Chief Receptor Mechanisms The Senses.—In order that each particular kind of change in the surroundings of the body may produce its appropriate reaction, it is essential that the different kinds of changes should act in different ways—-that the contact of gross matter, changes of temperature, vibra- tions of the air, vibrations of the ether, and various chemical changes should produce their special effects. To secure this, as we have already seen, special peripheral developments of neurons, special receptors, have been evolved which react more particularly to each of these special kinds of change. With these peripheral neurons particular parts of the central nervous system are connected and associated, so that a special reaction to each of the various kinds of stimuli may occur. These reactions may be accom- panied by changes in the consciousness—by sensations; and since our consciousness is our instrument of knowledge — our Ego — these sensations appear to us the chief and most important part of the action of the mechanism, and hence their activities are often considered as the senses. That, in many reactions, sensa- tion is not an essential part, we have already indicated. A. Intero-ceptive Mechanism Common Sensibility/.— Throughout the in- ternal organs are various peripheral terminations of ingoing nerves, some apparently of the nature of simple dendritic expansions, some of dendritic expansions enclosed in definite fibrous capsules (Pacinian Corpuscles), which are called into action by different kinds of stimulation, nocuous and innocuous, to produce reflex adjustments of the bodily mechanism either without or with the involution of consciousness —that is, either without or with the production of sensation (see p. 525). Thus when food is taken into the stomach it stimulates the ends of the different nerves, and these carry the impulse up to the central nervous system to produce a reflex dilatation of the gastric blood-vessels. When the consciousness is involved in the action of these mechanisms the sensations experienced are generally vague and difficult to describe, and have been grouped under the term of " Common Sensations." The ordinary sensations of thirst and hunger are examples of these, sensations which, although due to changes in the mouth, throat, or stomach, give us information as to the general needs of the body. Such sensations may be considered as normal and physiological. But when abnormal conditions exist in certain localities they produce sensations such as tickling, tingling, etc., and generally lead to a reflex endeavour to remove the abnormal stimulus. When nocuous stimuli act they generally not only evoke some reflex adjustment, as when indigestible matter in the stomach causes vomiting, but they produce changes in the consciousness which are generally classed as unpleasant or painful. All pain, since it means a change in our consciousness, is metaphysical. There is not such a thing as "physical pain." The fatigue and other sequences to any kind of pain are frequently cited as proofs of the influence of the mind on the body. But we have no right to assume that they are caused by the "pain" rather than by the physical disturbances in the nervous system of which the pain is an accompaniment. It must be recognised that pain is purely a relative term, and that conditions which in one individual will cause pain will not cause it