PANCREAS, is 110 proof of the absence of disease of the pancreas. In young subjects especially, but also in older patients, the symptoms of cancer of the pancreas are apt to be simulated by chronic interstitial pancreatitis; the surgeon should therefore not too hurriedly give up such cases as hopeless, and the diagnosis can nearly always be cleared up by attention to the clinical history, to the physical signs, and to digestive and metabolic symptoms. (See Diseases of Pancreas, Saunders & Co., 1907.) Treatment.—Though I have seen a consider- able number of cases of cancer of the pancreas, I have never yet found one where I considered excision feasible or worth a second thought; and although it is possible for a patient to live without the pancreas, as shown clinically and experimentally, I think it is scarcely likely that removal of cancer of this organ can ever be a frequent operation. The facts established by Minkowski's experi- ments on dogs, and Senn's classical experiments, reported in 1886, show that not only life, but good health is possible where the pancreas has atrophied, or the duct has become permanently occluded. There is therefore no physiological reason why partial extirpation of the pancreas should not be performed for cancer if it can be discovered in time. But although Bilroth successfully removed a cancer of the pancreas in 1884, and Rugge removed with success a tumour believed to be retroperitoneal sarcoma, but which proved to be a primary carcinoma of the pancreas, the cases are exceptions, and do not establish the wisdom of the procedure. Removal of the pancreas for primary cancer can be rarely a justifiable operation, unless it is taken at a very early stage, and unless the body or tail of the pancreas be the part affected; but under such circumstances the operation might be both feasible and justifiable. If, however, it is rarely possible to remove cancer affecting the head of the pancreas, some- thing may be done at times to relieve the jaundice that accompanies it, either by perform- ing cholecystotomy, or by establishing a com- munication between the gall-bladder and bowel by a cholecyst-enterostomy. I have operated on 16 cases of pancreatic cancer, and though the operations have as a rule been short and apparently favourable, the results have not been encouraging ; these cases at the best are not promising, and even if recovery occurs, life is prolonged only for a short time. M. Takayasu, of Osaka, Japan, collected 20 cases of cholecystotomy for cancer of the pan- creas all of which died shortly after operation, the longest survival being forty days, and 13 of cholecyst-enterostomy, all of which also only survived a short time. My own experience is more favourable; of 16 cases, 7 died soon after, and 9 recovered from operation and obtained DISEASES OF 259 relief from the jaundice. It seems to me that the only justification for operating is that there may have been an error in the diagnosis, and that the swelling of the head of the pancreas may be a chronic pancreatitis producing pres- sure on the bile-ducts, when an operation may be absolutely curative. Secondary malignant disease of the pancreas is not uncommonly found in both cancer and sarcoma, but in such cases other organs are also involved, and the pancreatic affection has patho- logical rather than clinical interest. The pancreas is frequently invaded by cancer owing to its proximity to other organs, such as the liver and stomach, the disease involving the pancreas by extension as the tumour increases ; but in this case also the interest is merely pathological. 4. Ulceration by Extension may give rise to pancreatitis ending in sloughing of the pancreas. In one case of this kind that I saw with Dr. Mercer of Bradford, in a man aged thirty-five, the abscess discharged into the stomach and led to vomiting of most offensive material, which appeared to be poisoning the patient, and made the atmosphere of the room almost too foetid to be borne by friends or nurses. I performed gastro-enterostomy, although the patient was extremely ill, in order to give the ulcer a chance to heal, and that the oftensive material might pass into the intestinal canal; the result was excellent, the patient making a good recovery, and being at the present time in excellent health. Ulceration of the pancreas through extension of chronic ulcer of the stomach is not in- frequently seen, and I have found specimens in several of the museums. On three occasions I have operated and found extensive invasion of the pancreas by an ulcer in the posterior wall of the stomach. Under these circumstances the operation of gastro- enterostomy in two of the cases gave immediate and complete relief, and led to permanent re- covery, the patients, both men of middle age, being now quite well. In the third case cancer had become grafted on the ulcer, and an attempt to remove the whole of the disease, though promising at first to be successful, ended in death the second week after operation. 5. Pancreatic Lithiasis.—Calculi in the pan- creas are certainly not common, as proved by post-mortem records, by the paucity of speci- mens in the museums, and by clinical experience. Only three examples were observed at Guy's Hospital among 6708 post-mortem examinations during fourteen years. M. Lancereaux, Journ. de medic, int., February 1, 1899, collected 40 cases, including one of his own; this is the largest number recorded, and probably includes all or nearly all the reported cases. Causes.—Sedentary habits and over-feeding