PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 411 cancer of the pericardium is scarcely ever met with, but two cases of carcinoma are recorded by Bernheim and one of sarcoma by Sir Wm. Broadbent. Secondary carcinoma is also very rare, and when found is usually due to direct invasion of the pericardium by a new growth in the mediastinal or bronchial glands, lungs, or ad- jacent structures, very exceptionally to meta- stasis from a distant growth. It is, as a rule, accompanied by pericarditis with effusion usually hsemorrhagic in character. The condition can only be suspected if a pericardial friction rub is heard when carcinoma in the neighbourhood of the pericardium has been diagnosed. It may be impossible to diagnose effusion when it occurs if there is already a large area of dulness due to a new growth in the anterior mediastinum. Hydatid of the Pericardium.—Cases of this affection are on record, but it is so rare that it must be regarded as a pathological curiosity. Pericementitis. — Slow inflammation and necrosis of the dental alveoli: Fauchard's disease. Perichondritis.—Inflammation of the fibrous connective tissue covering cartilage. See Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Laryn- geal Phthisis); Larynx, Affections of the Cartilages {Stenosis, Perichondritis and Treat- ment) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and Seqv^lce, Respiratory System, Laryngeal Com- plications). Peridiondrium. See Physiology, The Tissues {Cartilage). Pericolitis.—Inflammation of the tissues surrounding the colon. Pericolpitis.—Inflammation of the con- nective tissue surrounding the vagina. PeriCOWperitiS.—Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding Cowper's glands. Pericran i U m.—The external periosteum of the cranial bones ; it differs from periosteum elsewhere in having only slight bone-forming powers. Pericystitis. — Inflammation of the covering (peritoneum or connective tissue) of the bladder. Pe ridesmium. — The cellular tissue investing a ligament. PerididymiS. — The tunica alhuginea surrounding the testicle; inflammation of this structure is termed perididymitis. Periencephalitis.—Inflammation of the cerebral membranes, especially of the pia mater. Perienteritis.—Inflammation affecting the subperitoneal connective tissue ai'ound the intestine. Perig'astritis.—Inflammation of the peritoneal investment of the stomach. Perihepatitis. — Inflammation of the peritoneal investment of the liver. See Ascites {Causation); Liver, Perihepatitis. Perilymph. Seel Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear). Perimastitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the breast. Perimeter.—An instrument for investi- gating the field of vision. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Field of Vision) ; Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism (Vision, Field); Strabismus {Strabometry); Vision, Field of {Perimetry). Perimetritis.— Inflammation of the peritoneal investment of the uterus. See Broad Ligaments {Inflammation, Diagnosis); Fallo- pian Tubes {Inflammation, Diagnosis); Puer- PERiUM, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Peri- met7'itis). Perimyelitis.—Inflammation of the pia mater of the spinal cord ; spinal meningitis. Perimysium.—The connective tissue in- vestigating the primai-y bundles of muscle fibres. Perineal.—Relating to the perineum, e.g. the perineal body, perineal section, and perineal hernia. See Perineum for cross-references. PerineO-. — In compound words perineo- (Lat. perineon, the space between the external generative organs and the anvis; Gr. vepivaiov) means relating or belonging to the perineum; e.g. perineoplasty (reparative surgery of the perineum), perineoto7ny (incision through the perineum), perineovaginal (relating to the peri- neum and the vagina), etc. See Perineum. Perineorrhaphy.—Repair of the peri- neum, e.g. after lacerations received during labour. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Peririeal Tears, Treatment) ; Uterus, Displacements of {Prolapse, Treatment). Perinephritis. — Inflammation of the perinephrinm, the connective and adipose tissues surrounding the kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Perinephritis and Perinephritic Abscess); Spine, Surgical Affections of {S2nnal Caries, Diagnosis). Perineum. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor. See also Generation, Female Organs of {Pelvic Floor); Gynecology, Dia- gnosis IN {Inspection of External Genitals); Labour, Stages and Duration {Second Stage,