117 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES brane if necessary, and packing the sinus with gauze or worsted—in other words, performing the radical operation. The patient should be carefully instructed with regard to the method of syringing the cavity; some form of ball syringe, or the ordi- nary soft rubber Higginson syringe, to which a narrow nozzle has been adapted, will suit the purpose. Various non-irritating lotions are re- commended : a warm salt solution (3j.-0j.), a warm boracic or an alkaline lotion may be employed; a mild astringent, such as sulphate of zinc (grs. 2-5].), is sometimes used at a later stage. Protargol has been highly recommended by Alexander of Berlin; he introduces daily 50 cc. of a 5 per cent solution after syringing the cavity with sterilised water. A change of lotion is sometimes beneficial when healing is delayed. The plug having been removed, the nozzle of the syringe is introduced into the alveolar opening, and the patient, inclining his head forwards so that the lotion may flow out- wards through the anterior naris, gently syringes the cavity. It is important to bear in mind that forcible syringing must be avoided; I feel certain that with the head inclined forwards, infection of the anterior ethmoidal cells, or even of the frontal sinus, may and does sometimes occur as the result of too vigorous syringing. If the antrum be filled with water experiment- ally, and the head tilted forwards, some of the fluid is observed to flow readily along the in- fundibulum and fronto-nasal passage into the frontal sinus. Blocking of the hiatus semi- lunaris from polypi, or a swollen condition of its mucosa, would still further facilitate this. At the commencement of treatment the cavity should be syringed out twice or even three times daily, if the discharge is profuse and foetid. Later, as it gradually diminishes in quantity and the symptoms disappear, irriga- tion is carried out with less frequency, until a week elapses without syringing. If the lotion then passes through the cavity in a perfectly clear stream, and if at the end of a second and third week the same result is again noted, it may be considered safe to remove the plug and allow the track to close. Occasionally one finds that a minimum of discharge will cease alto- gether by discontinuing the irrigation which has really tended to maintain a slight catarrh of the mucous membrane. The alveolar open- ing, as a rule, readily closes; the obturator should be shortened so that the upper part of the track may first close before the plug is finally removed. The time required to obtain so desirable a result varies from a few weeks to several months. The question naturally arises as to the length of the period which is necessary to continue lavage in those cases which do not readily respond to treatment. It is impossible to estimate this from the point of view of time ; more reliable information is to be obtained by carefully observing the amount and the char- acter of the discharge, especially the latter. If, after lavage has been regularly carried out for three or four months, there still I'emains a definite quantity of thickish pus or muco-pus, unaffected by a change of lotion, the question of further treatment shoidd be considered. If there is no intranasal disease, and no evidence of suppuration in any of the other cavities which may be adversely influencing the an- trum, and the patient expresses himself as weary of the constant irrigation, the surgeon may then reasonably decide upon more radical measures. (ii.) The Radical Operation.—This consists in opening into the sinus, curetting its altered mucous lining, and dealing with carious or necrosed bone, should such be found, and then by appropriate after-treatment encouraging the formation of a new lining membrane. It is mainly in this way, though to some extent also by the filling up of the cavity with granulation tissue and its subsequent organisation, that an antrum thus treated heals. It is unfortu- nate, perhaps, that obliteration of the cavity is not possible. During recent years various procedures — some of which are merely old methods reintroduced—have been carried out with the object of putting the above principles into efl'ect. Opening through the Canine Fossa.—■ This operation is greatly facilitated by administering the chloroform from a Junker's inhaler through a metal tube, the end of which is passed into the nose or mouth; in this way the operator's view is not interfered with, and the patient can be kept more continuously under the influence of the anaesthetic. It is advisable also to insert a gag between the teeth on the side opposite to the diseased antrum, and to have a number of throat sponges prepared for immediate use. A sponge fixed on a holder should be introduced between the cheek and the molar teeth on the same side as the disease ; if this be frequently changed, it will be found of great assistance in preventing the blood from passing into the throat. The operator should also provide him- self with long strips of gauze for the purpose of controlling the hsemorrhage in the antral cavity. The operation should be conducted with every antiseptic precaution. The upper lip having been everted, an incision is made down to the bone through the fold of mucous membrane between the lip and the alveolus; this incision is carried from the canine ridge outwards to the malar process of the superior maxilla. The periosteum is then raised and retracted so that the whole area of bone form- ing the canine fossa is thoroughly exposed. With the aid of a chisel and mallet, a per- forator, or a small trephine saw, the antral cavity is then entered. The opening may be