291 PARALYSIS no cause can be discovered, while in others there has been reason to suspect toxic agents, such as are known to produce multiple neuritis. Not uncommonly, one of the acute specific fevers has been the immediate precursor, and septicaemia, the puerperal state, and syphilis, are among the known antecedents. The malady has followed severe exposure to cold in some cases, and it sometimes develops in persons addicted to alcoholic excess. Morbid Anatomy.—The disease may prove so rapidly fatal that it is not surprising that no anatomical lesions have been found to account for the clinical symptoms in some cases. Most of the cases of this kind are, however, of no value, as they were examined at a time when the histological techniqvie had not reached its present state of perfection. Nevertheless, no changes have been found in the peripheral or central nervous system in a few of the cases that have been examined by the aid of recent methods. In the great majority, however, definite changes of a degenerative character have been detected in some part of the peri- pheral motor neurones. Either the cells are affected in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, or nuclei of cranial nerves, or the axones in the anterior roots, or peripheral, spinal, or cranial nerves, show changes, or it may be that the whole peripheral neurone is altered. In addi- tion to the degenerative changes in the nerve elements, vascular changes may be present, and consist in engorgement of vessels, peri- vascular exudation, and minute haemorrhages. Bacteriological examinations have been made in several cases; in some with negative results, while in others the information derived cannot be regarded as definitely establishing a causal connection between the micro-organisms found 1 and the morbid changes present; moreover, the same microbe has not been found in all cases. Pathology.—The sudden onset and rapid evolution of the disease strongly suggest that the action of a toxic agent is responsible for the clinical manifestations, while the absence of anatomical lesions, in some cases, and the com- plete recovery of other patients, also support this view. Moreover, such changes as have been discovered in the central and peripheral nervous systems are such as commonly result from the action of known poisons such as alcohol and the like. There is nothing to suggest that the same poison is in action in all cases, and the meagre results of bacteriological examina- tion do not allow of the conclusion that the poison is of bacterial origin. Nevertheless, the circumstances under which many of the cases arise are strongly suggestive of this mode of origin of the disease in them, though in other cases known poisons of a different nature have existed, and may have caused the malady. In yet another group of cases the circumstances under which the affection occurs give us no clue as to the possible nature and source of the poison. If a toxic agent does produce the disease, it behaves very xnuch like lead, for it exercises a similar selective action in that it almost exclusively attacks the motor neui-ones. Symptoms.—The paralysis may be abrupt in its onset, or there may be premonitory symptoms lasting for some hours or days. In the majority of cases in which they occur the premonitory symptoms consist in subjective sensations such as numbness, tingling, formication, and the like, which especially affect the hands and feet; or vague, rheumatic-like pains may be felt about the trunk and in the limbs. In other cases the pains are sharper, and tend to shoot along the course of the nerves, and there may even be tenderness of the muscles of the calves. With or without such sensory disturbances there may be a feeling of lassitude and general weakness, or it is noticed that a short walk induces unusual and undue fatigue, so that the legs perhaps feel heavy. In some cases there has been sweating of the feet and hands, or the extremities have been cold or even livid. Whether ushered in by these premonitory symptoms or not, the most prominent symptom of the actual attack is motor paralysis, which usually commences in the lower extremities, and one limb commonly becomes weak before the other. Standing and walking quickly be- come impossible, and in a few hours or days all movements of the lower extremities, even as the patient lies in bed, are impossible; the limbs lie like helpless logs, and there is marked dropped foot on both sides. The trunk muscles next become involved, so that the patient is unable to rise into the sitting posture or even to turn over in bed. Now, or even sooner, the arms begin to become weak; a certain amount of clumsiness in using the fingers is the first defect noted, but the weakness may spread up the limbs until they become as completely paralysed as the lower extremities. Indeed, in some cases, otherwise typical of the class under consideration, the weakness has com- menced in the upper limbs, and the lower extremities have subsequently been attacked. The neck muscles become weak in some cases, so that the patient cannot turn the head from side to side, or raise it from the pillow. The intercostal muscles become weak, and respira- tion largely diaphragmatic ; but the diaphragm may become paralysed before the intercostals. When the diaphragm and intercostals are both paralysed there may still be a brief struggle for life, owing to the action of the extraordinary muscles of respiration. Paralysis in the distribution of some of the motor cranial nerves occui'S in a considerable proportion of cases, and the most common defect noticed is some articulatory difficulty of speech owing to weakness of the lips and tongue, and the speech may have a nasal