72 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE Posterior Rhinoscopic Vieiv (Fig. 2).^ — It should be borne in mind that as we are looking at the nasopharyngeal cavity from below, both the anterior, lateral, and posterior walls will tissue. Of the three meatuses the inferior cannot be seen, owing to the position of the mirror. Eustachian Orifice.—Immediately to the outer side of each choana, and apparently Fig. 2.—Posterior rhinoscopic view, seen with the mirror in the ordinary position and without the use of any instrument to draw forward the palate, a, Posterior surface of uvula; b, uvula cushion ; c,c, posterior margin of palate (arcus palato-pharyngei); d,d, levator cushions; e, septum nasi;/,/, swellings on the sides of the septum; g,g, choanae or posterior nares ; h,h, inferior turbinated bodies; middle turbinated bodies; Eustachian openings, more strictly the depressions leading to them; k,k, Eustachian cushions; 1,1, sal- pingo-pharyngeal folds; m,m, salpingo-palatine folds; n,n, position of upper part of Rosenmiiller's fossa;; 0,0, posterior tubal sulci. appear considerably foreshortened in a vertical direction, also that the portion of the lateral wall of the cavity which is in front of the mirror (and which, therefore, requires the mirror to make with it an angle larger than 4-5°) is sub- jected to a horizontal foreshortening. The former is minimised by holding the mirror as high as possible, the latter by placing the mirror in the position recommended by Zaufal for seeing the salpingo-pharyngeal fold, viz., low down in the pharynx with its back against the tonsil or posterior faucal pillar of the opposite side. Uvula and Soft Palate.—Above the posterior surface of the uvula (a) is seen a rounded fleshy eminence {b), the uvula cushion, and on either side, receding into the distance, the levator cushion (d). The septum (e) appears as a pale median ridge broadening above. On the two sides are commonly seen prominences of the mucous membrane (/,/). The choa7icB or pos- terior nares {g,g) are visible as two oval-shaped openings, one on either side of the septum. The lowermost part of the oval is usually concealed by the soft palate. Owing to the foreshortening they appear shorter than they really are. In each are commonly seen the three turbinated bodies and the two upper meatuses. The in- ferior turbinated body (h) appears as a rounded swelling at the bottom of each choana, a large portion of it being hidden by the velum palati. It is generally grey, and corrugated on the surface. 77ie middle turbinated body (i) has a light red colour and a smoother surface. Its septal surface can often be traced running forwards into the nasal cavity. The superior turbinated body may appear as a narrow ledge running parallel to the middle, but it is not always clearly visible. The posterior end of the inferior turbinated body may become tem- porarily swollen by the distension of its erectile 1 Ihicl., p. 109. on a level with the middle meatus, is seen the orifice of the Eustachian tube (j), or rather the depression leading to it. It appears as a light triangular depression with a dark outline, the base of the triangle being directed inwards towards the margin of the choana. Above it is the Eustachian cushion (ft), which appears as a thick red lip. Behind, it curves downwards as the salpingo-pharyngeal fold (^), and in front it passes into the less well-marked salpingo- palatine fold (m). Though in reality on a lower level, the upper margin of the Eustachian cushion appears in the mirror higher than that of the choana. Immediately above the upper margin of the Eustachian cushion is seen the roof of the naso-pharynx, and tracing this back- wards it passes gradually into the posterior wall, a depression being often visible in the median line at the junction of the two, the opening of the so-called pharyngeal bursa. To the outer side of the cushion (as regards its rhinoscopic view) is seen the fossa of Rosen- miiller, which is often traversed by bands at the point (w). Examination with the Probe.—The consistence, form, and mobility of these parts may, under favourable circumstances, be ascertained by the use of a postnasal probe, under guidance of the eye, or a probe may be introduced through the nose, its movements being watched in the rhinoscopic mirror. For the former purpose the probe should be a long one, and bent at right angles at a distance of about 1^ inch from its distal end. It is best made of silver, so that the curve may be altered if desired. Difficnlties in performing Posterior Bhino- scopy.—These are chiefly twofold: (1) Irrita- bility of the tongue and pharynx, which can generally be overcome by spraying in or plug- ging the parts with a 5 or 10 per cent solution of hydrochlorate of cocaine; (2) obstruction produced by the soft palate. Contraction of