PEPSIN 400 juice, usually obtained from the mucous mem- brane of the pig's stomach. It is a yellowish or white powder, sparingly soluble in water and alcohol. In combination with hydrochloric acid in weak solution it should digest about three thousand times its weight of albumin in the form of freshly coagulated white of egg. Dose —5-10 grs. Preparation—Glycerinum Pepsini, 1 dr. representing 5 grs. of pepsin. Dose— 1-2 3- Pepsin is given immediately after food along with weak hydrochloric acid to aid gastric digestion in various forms of dyspepsia, in old age, during convalescence from acute disease, and in cancer of the stomach. It is a very disappointing remedy, however, and pancreatic solution is usually more reliable and serviceable. It is also used for the predigestion of albumin- ous foods for administration both by the mouth and rectum. There is a danger that its con- tinued use may have harmful results by inter- fering with the normal digestive secretions of the stomach, and careful discrimination is required in selecting cases likely to derive benefit from its administration. It is contained in a large number of proprietary remedies, and in many of the forms in which it is placed on the market it is quite inert. The variety to be employed should be carefully tested before use. Numer- ous peptonised foods of all kinds are now sold, and in some cases many of them are of distinct value. Pepsi nog^en.—The forerunner of pepsin, which during gastric digestion is converted into pepsin. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Secretion). Peptic.—Relating to pepsin or to diges- tion, e.g. the peptic glands of the stomach (which secrete pepsin and hydrochloric acid) or the peptic ulcer (due to erosion of the gastric mucous membrane by the secretion). See In- digestion {Sy7nptoms); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Etiology, Symptomatology, etc.). Peptides.—Bodies containing two, four, or more amino acid molecules, linked to one another in series {Emil Fischer). See Physi- ology, Protoplasm {Synthesis of the Products of Disintegration). PeptOgfeniC. — Producing peptones or pepsin. Pe ptO m a. n ga n. — A proprietary pre- paration said to contain iron, peptone, and manganese. Peptonsemia.—The presence of peptone in the blood. Peptones.—Proteins which have been acted on by ferments (pepsin, trypsin) during digestion, intermediate bodies known as proteoses being formed in the process. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Classification of the Proteins); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Stomach Digestion, Proteolytic Period) ; Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Albumosuria, Peptonuria). Peptonisation. See Digestion and Metabolism {Functions of the Gastric Juice); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Digestion). PeptonisedfFoods. See Infant- Feeding {Milk Preparations, Peptonised Milk); Invalid - Feeding {Peptonised Foods) ; Milk {Dietetic, Peptonised); Pepsin. Peptonuria. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Albumosuria, Peptonuria). PeptotOXine.—A poisonous substance (ptomaine) produced during the putrefaction of peptones and albuminous matters. Per-.—In compound words per- (Lat. per, through or by) means thoroughly or very, e.g. peracute (very severe) and perfervid (very fervid, glowing) ; in chemistry it denotes the maximum of some element in a combination, e.g. peroxide, perchloride, jJersulphide, percarbide. Peracidity.—Excessive acidity, e.g. in indigestion. Percentage Feeding.—The feeding of infants with cow's milk modified according to definite percentages of fats, sugar, and proteids in order to adapt it to the requirements of different ages and of the state of health or dis- ease ; feeding with modified milk. See Infant- Feeding, Milk Laboratories ; etc. Perception. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism (Vision, Visual Centre). Percolation.—The straining of a liquid through some porous material. In pharmacy it is used for obtaining the soluble parts of a drug by passing a solvent through it (the percolating fluid being termed the menstruum, and the material after it has been traversed by the fluid being named the marc); the liquid obtained by percolation may be passed through a second portion of the drug, and so on, this portion being called repercolation. In Public Health, percolation beds are those through which sewage is passed in order to purify it. See Sewage and Drainage {Sewage Disposal, Methods). Percussion.—A method of physical examination by which the surface of the body is so struck (with the fingers or a special instrument, plexor or pleximeter) as to produce a sound, the character of which indicates the state of the underlying organs. See Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of {Percussion); Chest, Clinical Investigation of {Lungs, Percussion); Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Physical E.mmina-