438 PERITONEUM—TUMOURS smaller ones, were opened and found to contain liquid blood, their inner aspect being smooth and polished. The tumour appeared to start in the outer surface of the peritoneum, forming livid projections into the peritoneal cavity, and externally it invaded the muscles of the ab- dominal wall. It extended upwards beneath the diaphragm and backwards into relation with the kidney. It proved to be naevoid in char- acter, and was apparently undergoing rapid degeneration. Malignant Disease of the Peritoneum still stands in need of much further study from a pathological standpoint. It is divisible broadly into sarcoma and carcinoma, but the two grovips are not yet clearly differentiated from each other, and their tumours are sometimes mis- taken for inflammatory tumours which either disappear spontaneously or when a surgeon has been led to give a fatal prognosis after an exploratory abdominal section. The sarcomata are either primary, arising in the recto-peritoneal tissue, the great omentum, the mesentery, or the broad ligaments ; or they are secondary to disease of the testis or ovary, from which they spread by direct extension. They occur more often in males than in females, and in adults than in children. The peritoneal sarcomata are usually described as being of the round or spindle celled variety, or as lympho- sarcomata, but there is an increasing tendency amongst pathologists to classify most of these tumours as endotheliomata. The endotheliomata are generally seen as multiple flattened growths, whitish in colour, and either discrete or connected with each other by bands of adhesion. The growths usually cause effusion into the peritoneal cavity, and they give rise to secondary deposits in other serous membranes, though the various organs of the body usually escape. Endothelial tumours ai'e characterised by the presence of nests or clusters of cells which have a columnar appear- ance at the periphery of the growths. These clusters of cells lie in a dense fibrous tissue and exactly follow the course of the lymphatic vessels. The origin of the cells is not yet known ac- curately ; but they seem to be derived from the endothelial lining of the lymphatics, unless they come from the multiplication of the epithelium of the coelom or primitive body cavity. Peritoneal endotheliomata, like endothelio- mata in other parts, undergo various degen- erative changes, chief amongst which are their conversion into myomata and the fonnation of blood cysts by an angioplastic formation. Carcinomata of the peritoneum are all second- ary, the primary growth being found in the gall- bladder, pancreas, or ovaries. Enormous masses of " colloid cancer" are sometimes found in- vading the mesentery, probably by extension from the stomach or rectum. The symptoms of malignant disease of the peritoneum are always obscure. When it is primary there is probably very little more than loss of weight, "dyspepsia," and general malaise. The discovery of an abdominal tumour, which increases in size and causes various pressure symptoms according to its position, sometimes renders the diagnosis more clear, though it occasionally makes it more obscure; for in several cases an abdominal section has revealed the presence of a swelling which was thought to be a sarcoma, so large and so intimately adherent to the surrounding tissues and organs as to be beyond the possibility of removal. Yet from the time of the operation the swelling has got steadily smaller, and in the end has com- pletely disappeared, the patient recovering his former good health. I have ventured to speak of these swellings as "Vanishing Tumours" {The Lancet, vol. i., 1899, p. 583). They were probably retroperitoneal inflammatory swellings, connected perhaps with tubercle, syphilis, or sepsis, which have been diagnosed incorrectly as malignant. No treatment is of much avail in cases of malignant disease of the peritoneum. Surgery offers no radical cure, and medicine only affords the palliative measures which ensure a eutha- nasia. Endothelial tumours can usually be shelled out of the capsule in which they are enclosed. A determined attempt should there- fore be made to enucleate them in spite of the adhesions of surrounding organs and tissues to their exterior, for if they are left untouched they soon cause death. Peritonism.—This term has been used in two senses, first, in that of a pseudo-peritonitis, with the symptoms, but without the gravity or the permanent effects of true peritonitis; or, second, in that of a group of serious phenomena occurring in the course of peritonitis, or of any disease of an organ or part covered by peritoneum Peritonitis. See Peritoneum, Patho- logy ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis ; Peri- toneum, Tuberculous Peritonitis. See also cross-refh'ences under Peritoneum. Peritonsillitis.—Inflammation of the tissues around the tonsils (peritonsillar tissues) See Tonsils, Diseases of {Chronic Tonsillar Abscess). Perityphlitis. — Inflammation of the peritoneum covering the csecum. See Appendix Diseases of {Ajjpendicitis, Synonyms) ; Spine Surgical Affections of {Spinal Caries, Dia gnosis). Periureteritis. — Inflammation of the tissues around the ureter. Periurethritis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the urethra See Urethra, Diseases of.