PARALYSIS 273 The upper limit of muscles involved in the paralysis is the next most applicable sign in localisation, but it is not so exact nor so easy to investigate as is the anaesthesia. When the lesion is situated on or above the fourth cervical segment there is paralysis of the diaphragm. From the fourth cervical to the first thoracic segments the involvement of certain groups of the muscles of the upper extremity will indicate damage to each segment. The pupillary pheno- menon, etc., also indicates damage above or in the first thoracic segment. In the upper half of the thoracic region, since the only muscles supplied by this region of the cord are the intercostal and spinal muscles, narrow limitation of paralysis is not apparent. It must here be mentioned that the expansion movement of the five lower ribs is caused by the diaphragm, and exists where there is com- plete intercostal paralysis. From this it happens that intercostal paralysis is frequently over- looked. In the lower thoracic region, however, the most exact localisation is often possible by means of a sign first used by C. E. Beevor. The patient is examined in the supine position with the anterior wall of the abdomen bare, and is directed to make the attempt to sit up. As he does so the junction of the contracting with the non-contracting muscle often becomes plainly visible as a retraction ring. Where the sub- cutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall is too abundant for the usual perception of this pheno- menon, it may be felt with the hand. Further, the umbilicus, which in the normal state does not alter its position on the attempt to sit up, shifts upwards during such attempt if there is a lesion in the lower thoracic region. The state of the superficial and tendon reflexes is only a guide in that the bilateral absence of one of them indicates that the segment subserv- ing it is destroyed. The zone of hypersesthesia sometimes occur- ring at the upper limit of anaesthesia is of con- siderable localising value, but it is only rarely present. Girdle sensations are also valuable, as are root pains, but sometimes they do not indicate the upper limit of disease. Far more important than the last are local signs of disease in the vertebral column, de- formity, and tenderness; but these signs are often too diffuse for exact localisation, and should never be relied upon alone to indicate the level of the lesion. The determination of the pathological nature of the disease depends so much upon the history, clinical aspect, and course of each case, that few general statements of value can be made. From the mode of onset it may be broadly stated that if this be sudden the lesion is a haemorrhage. If it be acute (1-3 days), myelitis (thrombosis) is most often responsible. If subacute (1-3 months), pressure upon the spinal cord is most likely. Toxic processes are chronic, and de- VOL. VII generative processes still more chronic. To each of these statements, however, exceptions are not rare. If pain be a prominent and early symptom, a pressure lesion or pachymeningitis may be safely inferred, but the converse does not hold good; as an instance, the paraplegia of spinal caries may be unassociated with pain. Pain is as a rule absent in vascular lesions, in- cluding myelitis, and in degenerative lesions. The difi^erential diagnosis of the diseases asso- ciated with spastic paraplegia will be found under the titles on p. 274. It is useful to bear in mind that a case of spastic paraplegia which does not present signs at once furnishing a diagnosis is most often due to acute myelitis if the onset be acute, to spinal caries if subacute, and to disseminated sclerosis if chronic. Primary Lateral Sclerosis. — There has been much discussion as to whether a primary system disease limited to the pyramidal tracts occurs affecting the lower end of the upper neuron pyramidal fibre in a way comparable to the affection of the lower neuron (peripheral nerve) in multiple neuritis. A condition nearly approaching to this has been found in certain cases of general paralysis of the insane, but it is here not an uncomplicated process. No convincing pathological records are forthcoming upon which a pathological entity of primary acquired lateral tract degeneration can be based. It is said, however, in explanation, that this disease rarely destroys life. Notwithstanding, however, the absence of satisfactory pathological data, there seems to be a group of cases to which the name primary lateral sclerosis may appropriately be given. Causation.—As in other chronic spinal cord diseases occasional neuropathic heredity can be traced. Males and females are affected in about equal numbers. The symptoms usually appear in the third and fourth decades of life. Primary spastic paraplegia sometimes follows syphilis in a way to suggest a causal relation, but this antecedent is not frequent. The onset of symptoms sometimes follows injury to the spine, exposure to wet, cold, over-exertion, and general illness. Symptoms. — Gradually increasing weakness of the legs is the earliest symptom to appear. The patient finds that he becomes tired more easily than before, and the legs feel heavy. Often one leg is affected before the other. The tendency to spasm is at first noticeable as slight stiffness of the legs in rising in the morning, and this gradually increases in degree as power lessens. Power is lost earliest in the anterior tibial group of muscles. The legs are rigid in exten- sion and the clasp-knife phenomenon is well marked. Rarely, short attacks of flexor spasm occur chiefly at night. It is only in rare in- stances that the arms are affected. 18