PANCREAS— After active secretion has ceased, a gradual restitution of the cell to its condition during hunger is established. Changes similar to those during the first stage of digestion may also be produced by the injection of pilocarpine. Heidenhain has shown that the quantity of trypsin present in the secretion varies directly with the development of the inner granular zone. In the case of dogs, in which a permanent pancreatic fistula had been formed, he found that the greatly diminished activity of the pancreatic juice was associated with almost entire absence of granules from the inner zone. He has shown that trypsin is only present in the pancreatic juice, not in the resting cells, since a fresh pancreas in the resting condition, showing a well-developed granular zone, yields on extraction with glycerine little or no trypsin, but its precursor, or zymogen. He therefore concludes that the granules within the cells contain only zymogens. The zymogen granules are highly refractile, easily soluble in alkalies, and become brown when treated with osmic acid. These facts induced early observers to regard them as fatty globules. They are, how- ever, much less stable than fat rapidly swelling and then undergoing solution when treated with water. On account of this instability the granules are difficult to fix, the deeper parts of the tissue often escaping the action of the fixatives, the best of which for this purpose are corrosive sublimate and osmic acid. The granules lie in the interstices of a spongioplasmic meshwork, which stains readily with acid dyes. In the outer zone of the cell the spongioplasmic strands are arranged longitudinally, and appear to be amphophil in their relation to staining reagents. At the junction between the two zones lies the nucleus, which in the living cell is spherical; while in fixed preparations it is often ellipsoidal and slightly shrunken. When suitably stained, it shows a somewhat wide- meshed chromatic network, and one or occasion- ally two nuclei. By means of injection and the use of Golgis method, it has been shown that intercellular secretory capillaries extend laterally from the central lumen of each glandular tubule between the cells as far as the outer limit of the inner granular layer. None of these capillaries reach the basement membrane. The secretory capil- laries appear to end within the cells in secretory vacuoles. The latter, which may be readily demonstrated by the use of Golgi's method, are not to be regarded as fixed preformed structures —since they vary much in number, size, and position —but as resulting from the solution of zymogen granules during secretion. Scattered throughout the substance of the pancreas, usually in the interior of the primary tubules, more rarely at the periphery, occur a number of rounded or irregularly-formed masses of cells, ranging in diameter from -07 to -3 mm. VOL. VII PHYSIOLOGY 241 These groups of cells have received the name of Langerhans' cell islets, and are present in the pancreas of all those mammals in which they have been looked for, as well as in the pancreas of birds, reptiles, and amphibians. They are separated from the rest of the gland substance by a more or less distinct connective- tissue capsule. The epithelial cells within the islet are arranged as a meshwork of anasto- mosing cell columns. The spaces left between the cell columns contain large capillary blood- vessels whose endothelial walls lie in direct contact with the epithelial cells. As a rule, each cell column consists of two or more rows of cells. Occasionally, however, a cell column may be found consisting of a single row of cells. Ducts, although sought for by numerous observers, have not been discovered, so that the only channels by which the products of activity of the cells can be transported are the blood and lymph streams. The rich supply of capil- lary blood-vessels, and their intimate relation with the epithelium, obviously favour metabolic interchange between the epithelium and the blood. The epithelial cells, forming an islet, may readily be distinguished from the glandular cells of the pancreas proper by the absence of the division into an inner granular and an outer, more homogeneous zone, and by the uniformly faintly granular character of their protoplasm. The cells, which vary from 9 to 12 /x in diameter, are roughly polygonal in shape, and in fixed preparations are seen to possess a finely meshed spongioplasm. Their nuclei are ellipsoidal, have a fine chromatic network, and contain nucleoli of much smaller size than those present in the nuclei of the glandular cells of the pancreas proper. Occasionally a nucleus of unusually large size may be found. The pancreas of the himian subject develops as a single dorsal protrusion and a double ventral protrusion of the hypoblast lining the upper part of the small intestine. The ventral protrusions later on fuse to form a single mass, and at a still later date fusion of the dorsal and ventral precursors of the gland takes place. The original duct of the dorsal protrusion be- comes the duct of Santorini, while the duct of the ventral part becomes the duct of Wirsung. Laguesse has shown that, in the case of the sheep, the cell islets of Langerhans develop from the same region of the hypoblast as the pancreas proper. While the pancreas has long been known to produce an external secretion, it has only recently been shown to exert an important influence on general metabolism. For fuller details with regard to the nature, mechanism of production, and nervous control of the ex- ternal secretion, reference must be made to the article on " Digestion and Metabolism." A resume of the main facts with regard to the 16