PARASITES 344 are concerned, only portions of their life-histories are known. In malaria alone has the whole life- cycle of the parasite been worked out. In addition to the organisms mentioned above, the following may be noted :—Amoeba coli and Amoeba dysenterke. That these are not identi- cal has been settled by Schaudinn, who has shown that their development is dissimilar. He has been able to infect cats by feeding with material containing the dried spores of A. dysen- terice. Ti-ypanosomes {see " Sleeping Sickness," " Trypanosomiasis "). In addition to the forms mentioned (vide supra) many others occur in animals, and one species at \e&^t—Trypanosoma gambiense—is pathogenic to man, being the cause of trypanosome fever and sleeping sickness. With the exception of that causing dourine, all species of trypanosome yet investigated re- quire for their development an invertebrate as well as a vertebrate host. The individuals of a species are either undifferentiated, or male and female, and while all may multiply by fission, this is usually in abeyance in the sexual forms. Conjugation takes place only in the inverte- brate host. The genus Spirochceta is closely allied to the trypanosomes, and one of them (spirochoete pallida, spironema pallidum) is now recognised as the cause of syphilis {see "Syphilis")—a dis- covery we owe to the genius of Schaudinn. Spirochsetes have often been confused with bacteria of the genus Spirillum, but they pre- sent certain differences—an undulatory mem- brane, no flagellse, no firm cell membrane. Parasitic spirochfetes are found in a number of the lower animals ; of those pathogenic to man besides S. pallida, S. Obermeieri (the organism of relapsing fever), and S. pertenuis (Castellani), the parasite of yaws may be mentioned. S. refringens is a common saprophytic type. Leishman-Donovan Bodies." — These organ- isms, the causal agents of tropical splenomegaly, or Kala-Azar, a very fatal disease of India—also met with in China and tropical Africa—charac- terised by prolonged fever, hepatic and splenic enlargement, and very marked leucopenia, have given rise to much controversy. They are intracellular organisms, abundantly present in the spleen, liver, and marrow, but very scanty in the circulating blood. Free forms are rare. They are minute (2-3 ^ in diameter), rovmd, oval, or pear-shaped structures, with an envelope, vacuolated protoplasm, and two nuclei, one of which is large and round, the other small and rod-like. They can be cultivated outside the body, when they develop into flagellate organ- isms like the herjietomonas group. Parasites resembling the Leishman-Donovan body are present in the lesion of Oriental sore. Piroplasma.—This organism belongs to the htemosporidia group of the sporozoa, and gives rise to a group of diseases known as the piro- plasmoses. Besides causing the various forms of hsemoglobinuria in cattle—" red water," etc. —one species {P. hominis) is pathogenic for man, being the cause of " spotted fever," or "tick fever" of the rocky mountains. It occurs typically as a small, pear-shaped, intracorpuscular organism in the red cells of the blood. The intervertebrate host of the piroplasma is a tick. Cytoryctes va7-iolce. —Councilman's studies (1903-4) point with some probability to the organism named cytoryctes variolm being the cause of both smallpox and vaccinia. The organisms occur in the form of rounded homo- geneous structures about 1 ;u, in diameter in the epithelial cells of the early stages of the skin lesion, and in the course of their further develop- ment become filled with smaller spore-like bodies enclosed in a reticulum, which finally breaks up. It is believed that the spores are the infective agents of variola and vaccinia, but the nature of the further life-cycle of the parasite is purely conjectural. A protozoon which may prove to be the cause of the disease has been detected by Mallory in the cutaneous lesions of scarlet fever. Yellow Fever.—Since the researches of Reid, Carrol and others have definitely proved that the infection of yellow fever is conveyed only through the agency of a particular species of mosquito {stegomyia fasciata), it is most likely that the disease is of animal, not of bacterial, origin. The infective agent, however, has not yet been discovered.] Helminths—The Parasitic Worms (A) Plathelminths (Gr. TrXarv?, flat, wide), platodes or flat worms, have a flattened body. Their respiration is cutaneous, and there are usually organs of attachment, suckers or hooks. The chief mode of multiplication is a sexual one, and each animal is usually hermaphrodite. In some there is also an asexual multiplication by fission or budding. Some have an alimentary canal without an anus, others have no such canal. All the parasitic species are included in the two orders: Trematodes and Cestodes. They are either entozoa or ectozoa; but in the case of man, as well as of all the higher animals, they are all entozoa. I. Treviatodes, or flukes, are generally small plathelminths, of a leaf-shaped form, and are unsegmented. The alimentary canal has one opening, the mouth, at the anterior end of the body ; the genital apertiires and the suckers are situated on the ventral aspect of the body. The body is enclosed in a cuticular membrane which, in some species, bears numerous small spines, a parenchyma lies between this membrane and the wall of the intestine and the other organs; there are muscular fibres in various parts, and these constitute also the chief elements of the suckers. In the entoparasitic trematodes there are never more than one or two suckers ; the one is always at the ventral