PHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE 462 other hand, the bleeding may be of purely local origin, and due to operation, suppuration, or ulceration. Those with varicose veins at the base of the tongue, or on the posterior wall of the pharynx, are said to be liable to occasional slight haemorrhages, especially if they suffer from pharyngitis sicca, necessitating frequent hawking. Bleeding may also take place into the mucous membrane and produce ecchymosis, or even a heematoma, of which a few cases have been reported. The amount of blood lost may vary from a few drops to what proves fatal, as in the erosion of a large artery. The source of a moderate haemorrhage can usually be found at once. This is not so, however, when the bleeding is due to no known cause, and is scanty or has ceased. In cases of this kind the hsemorrhage, especially when recurrent, readily arouses suspicion of lung disease, and it is then necessary to satisfy the patient, or possibly an insurance company, as to the place of origin. The possibility of the bleeding being from the nose, naso-pharynx, or gums, shovdd be remembered. The ex- amination of the lungs, and the consideration of the patient's present and past state and family history, usually settle the question of haemoptysis. Occasionally, however, they prove negative, or merely afford gromids for surmise. It is then necessary to compare the features of a pharyngeal with those of a pulmonary haemorrhage. In doing so, weight must not be attached to the patient's sensations, which often lead him to the erroneous belief that the blood comes from the throat. In a pharyngeal haemorrhage the amount of blood expectorated must be scanty, otherwise the bleeding point will be discovered ; further, it is hawked, not coughed up. When from the lungs usually the sputum is liquid, florid, and frothy, the blood is intimately mixed with the mucus, and tubercular bacilli are present. If the blood is expectorated in thick or partially dry clots, it comes from the upper air tract, or has been present there for some time. The blood-stained spit that follows the detachment of crusts in pharyngitis sicca contains pavement epithelium. If blood is seen in the trachea, its source is almost certainly tliere or in the chest. Finally, it should be remembered that haemoptysis is of common occurrence, while pharyngeal haemor- rhage without an apparent cause is very rare ; both may, of course, co-exist. Indeed, a dia- gnosis of pharyngeal haemorrhage is scarcely justifiable unless the bleeding point has been seen, or haemorrhage produced by touching the suspected spot. Slight bleedings may be checked by allowing pieces of ice to melt in the mouth, or by apply- ing to the bleeding ai'ea hydrogen peroxide, liq. ferr. perchlor. or a mixture of tannic (3 parts) and gallic (1 part) acids, made into a hard paste with a little water [Hovell). For bleeding gums, a gargle of chlorate of potash or of iron alum, or the direct application of lunar caustic will prove effectual. If the source is a varicose vessel the affected portion is best destroyed by the galvano-cautery point. When the haemorrhage is profuse, tampons saturated with a styptic should be firmly pressed over the bleeding area. Ligature of the carotid artery has even been found necessary. Haematomata call for treatment only when their size causes inconvenience; they should then be evacuated. Foreign Bodies.—A great variety of foreign bodies has been found in the pharynx. The most frequently occurring are those that have been introduced with the food, e.g. fish bones, spicules of rabbit bones; leeches and worms also have been sucked in while drinking from pools. The food itself may constitute a foreign body, as when a large piece of meat " sticks in the throat." Objects held in the mouth may fall, or be inadvertently drawn backwards, e.g. false teeth, pins, needles, pieces of pipe stem. Lastly, articles of all sorts have become lodged in the throats of children and lunatics by accident or design. Diminished sensibility of the pharyngeal mucous membrane and paresis of the con- strictors favour the lodgment of extraneous substances. When the foreign body is large it usually becomes impacted about the upper end of the oesophagus, in one of the pyriform sinuses, or between the epiglottis and tongue. If sharp and fine, it may enter the mucous membrane at any point; the tonsils, faucial and lingual, are, however, the favourite resting places, and it- is from these that fish bones are oftenest found to project. A foreign body may be present without the patient's knowledge, but it commonly pro- duces irritation or obstruction. When sharp, a pricking sensation is usually experienced, which may be followed by acute inflammation, swelling, and abscess. On the other hand, the object may be of such a size as to cause inability to swallow, dyspnosa, and even suffocation. The diagnosis, as a rule, is easily made on examining the parts, if need be, with the laryngoscope; when inspection fails, palpation may succeed. Occasionally the X-rays will assist. If no indication of a foreign body can be found, the symptoms may be due to injury caused by one which is no longer present, or may be neurotic in origin {see Paraesthesia of the Pharynx). In the majority of cases the symptoms quickly pass off on removal of the extraneous