NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 33 piecemeal, or at any rate broken up." Doyen's method is closely similar to Rose's, and hardly calls for description. All of these operations require considerable dexterity and good electri- cal illumination. Operations upon the Gasserian ganglion are liable to be followed by destructive keratitis and loss of the eye, but it appears to be conclusively proved that removal of the ganglion alone does not cause such results in the absence of any sepsis or of local irritation of the eye, while all risks disappear within a week or two of the operation. Hence before operation the conjunctival sac should be carefully cleansed for a day or two by washing with a sterile solution of boracic acid, and the eyelids should be lightly sutured to- gether, and kept carefully covered during the operation and for some days afterwards. Lastly, ligature of the carotid artery has occasionally been practised for the relief of facial tic, and although now fallen into disuse, it ap- pears to have been by no means inefficacious. Nervi. &e Therapeutics, Health Resorts [Riviera). Nervi Erig^enteS.—Branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves which pass to the hypogastric plexus and are thence sent to the penis, bladder, rectum, and colon; they act as vasodilators to the pelvic organs and cause erection of the penis (Lat. erigo, I erect). See Physiology, Nervous System [Spinal Nerves). Nervi Nervorum.—The nerve-twigs distributed to the sheaths of the nerves them- selves. Nervitone.—A proprietary medicine said to contain iron, phosphorus, asafetida, sumbul root, and nux vomica. Nervosine.—A mixture of reduced iron, valerian, angelica, etc., used in the treatment of hysteria. NervOSism.—The medical doctrine that morbid phenomena are caused by variation in nerve force; also, sometimes, neurasthenia {Bovxhut). Nervous System, Diseases of. See Absinthism ; Acromegaly ; Adolescent In- sanity ; Alcoholic Insanity ; Alcoholism ; Anaesthesia ; Angina Pectoris ; Aphasia ; Asthma ; Athetosis ; Atrophy {Trophic In- fluence) ; Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth ; Balneology {In Disorders of the Nervous System); Bed-Sores ; Beriberi ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of ; Brain, Physiology ; Brain, Diseases of Blood-Vessels; Brain, Tumours ; Brain, Inflammations, Atro- phy, Hypertrophy, etc.; Brain, Intracranial Surgery ; Brain, Cerebellum, Diseases of ; Catalepsy ; Children, Clinical Examination vol. VII OF {Nervous System); Chorea ; Chorea Gravi- darum ; Choreic Insanity ; Climacteric In- sanity ; Climate {Effect on Nervous System); Coccygodynia ; Convulsions, Infantile ; Cough {Nervous) ; Cretinism ; Deafmutism ; Delirious Mania ; Delirium Tremens ; Eclampsia ; Elec- tricity ; Embryology {Nervous System, Develop- ment of); Epilepsy ; Epileptic Insanity ; Equi- librium ; Facial Nerve, Paralysis ; Facial Spasm ; Fifth Nerve, Affections of ; General Paralysis ; Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve ; Head- ache ; Head-Shaking ; Heart, Neurosis of ; Hemiplegia ; Heredity {In Diseases of the Nervous System); Herpes ; Hiccough ; Hydro- cephalus ; Hypoglossal Nerve ; Hysteria {General); Hysteria in Children ; Hysteria {Surgical Aspects); Insanity, Etiology; Insanity, Pathology ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Insanity, Treatment ; Joints, Diseases of {Neuro-Arthropathies) ; Larynx, Neuroses of ; Leprosy {Nerve Changes in); Lumbago ; Lunacy ; Malingering {Nervous Mimicry, Varieties) ; Massage ; Meninges, Anatomy, etc.; Meninges, Tuberculous Meningitis ; Meninges, Epidemic Cerebro-spinal Meningitis; Menopause {Nervous Disorders); Mental Deficiency ; Mirror-Writ- ing ; Morphinomania ; Muscles, Diseases of {Atrophies, Hypertrophies, Myotonia Congenita, etc.); Myasthenia Gravis; Nerves, Peripheral, Injuries and Diseases ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis ; Nerves, Neuralgia ; Neurasthenia ; Neuroses, Occupation ; New- born Infant, Diseases {Tetanus); Nose, Neuroses of ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; Ophthalmoplegia ; Osteo-Arthropathies ; Paralysis ; Paralytic Insanity ; Paranoia ; Pellagra ; Pemphigus ; Physiology, Neuro- muscular Apparatus ; Pons ; Post-mortem Methods {Examination of Head and Brain) ; Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in Nerves); Pregnancy, Pathology of {Disorders of Nervous System); Puerperium, Pathology of {Puerperal Insanity, etc.); Pupil ; Raynaud's Disease ; Retina and Optic Nerve; Sciatica; Sea-Sick- ness; Senile Insanity ; Shock; Sleep, Normal and Morbid ; Spasm ; Spina Bifida ; Spinal Cord, Medical Section ; Spinal Cord, Surgical Section ; Stammering ; Strabismus ; Sunstroke ; Syphilis {Affections of Nervous System); Syrin- gomyelia ; Tabes Dorsalis ; Tendon-Jerks ; Tetanus ; Tetany ; Tremors ; Ulcers and Ulceration {Due to Imperfect Nerve-Supply); Unconsciousness ; Uremia ; Uterus, Insanity ASSOCIATED WITH DiSEASE OF ; VaGUS NeRVB ; Vertigo ; Visceral Pain ; Wry Neck. Nessler's Reag'ent or Solution. —^A saturated solution of mercuric iodide and potassium iodide. A strip of filter - paper moistened with this solution becomes yellow in the presence of ammonia in the air; the test is also used for the estimation of the amount of ammonia in water (by distillation 3