PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 554 abdominal muscles with the 8th to the 12th dorsal; of the epigastric muscles with the 4th to the 7th dorsal; and of the scapular muscles with the 5th cervical to the 12th dorsal. By taking advantage of these reflexes the condition Fig. 88.—The groups of cells in the anterior horn of grey matter at the level of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral nerves. (From Bruce.) of the reflex arcs in the cord at different levels may be investigated. Reflex actions in connection with various visceral muscles are also connected with the spinal cord. Many of these are complex reflexes involving inhibition of certain muscles and increased action of others, some visceral, some skeletal. The best marked of these are the reflex acts of micturition, defsecation, erection, and ejaculation. The lumbar enlargement is the part of the cord involved. The synapses in the cord are not only capable of acting reflexly to set up definite contractions in muscles, but they also exercise a constant tonic action upon them, due to the constant inflow of incoming impressions (p. 504). When this tonic action is interfered with by any condition which interferes with the integrity of the reflex arc, the effect of directly stimulating a muscle is diminished. This is very well seen in the contraction of the quadriceps extensor femoris which occurs when the ligamentum patellae is struck sharply, causing a kick at the knee-joint—the knee-jerk (Fig. 89). When the reflex arc in the lower lumbar region of the cord is interfered with, the knee-jerk is dimin- ished or is absent, and when the activity of the arc is increased, by the removal of the influence of the brain, the jerk is increased. That the jerk is probably not a true reflex is shown by the fact that the latent period is very much shorter than that of most reflex actions (Fig. 89). The reflex arc, however, is necessary for the tonus. This tonus is increased by tension of the muscles and also by fatigue of the nervous system, and this condition may lead to cramp. The degeneration of special groups of cells— the anterior horn of grey matter—which follows amputation of the leg at diff'erent levels seems to indicate that the various groups of cells have definite connections with individual muscles {see Fig. 88). B. Conducting Paths. — The study of the course of the ingoing and outgoing fibres in the cord has proved to be one of great difiiculty. It is possible in animals to divide the cord completely or to divide one half, or to divide any one of the white columns, and to observe any loss of muscular action which may ensue and to trace the course of degenerated fibres; but to determine what changes in the sensibility have resulted on animals, imable to give any expression to their sensations, is practically impossible. On the other hand, the clinical method of cai'efully studying the changes in sensibility during life and determining post-mortem the exact site of the lesion which has produced these symptoms, has generally proved somewhat un- satisfactory on account of the want of precision in the lesions produced by injury or disease of the cord. A. Ingoing Fibres.—In the cord there seems to be a sorting of fibres into those the stimula- tion of which can effect consciousness and give rise to sensations, and those which simply pro- duce reflex responses. Thus, those kinsesthetic fibres which give rise to the muscle and joint sense run up in the posterior columns and cross above the cord, while those which ai"e concerned with the unconscious adjustment of muscular Fig. 89.—The neuro-muscular mechanism concerned in the knee- jerk, and the time of the knee-jerk (A.J.) compared with the time of a reflex action {A.R.). action through the agency of the cerebellum are shunted off through the synapses in Clarke's column to the direct cerebellar tract of the same side and the spino-ventral cerebellar^tract of the opposite side. In all probability fibres connected with the tactile sense are similarly sorted out, and possibly even those connected with the conduction of thermal and of nocuous stimuli. As regards the course of the ingoing fibres,