PERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 434 The surgeon must be especially careful not to overlook abscesses in other parts of the serous cavities, as pneumococci peritonitis is often associated with empyema and suppurative pericarditis. Suppurative Peritonitis associated with Suppuration in other Serous Membranes, or PoLYORROMENiTis.—The Italian physicians have given the name polyorromenitis to an analogous condition of suppuration in several serous cavities, and the disease has been carefully studied by Dr. Frederick Taylor. There is but little dovibt, however, that the affection is not a definite pathological entity, but is often the result of a general infection often beginning without any assignable cause, and running an abnormal course in weakly persons. Bacteriological examination shows that tuber- cle bacilli, pneumococci, staphylococci, and even streptococci, are found in the pus contained in the serous cavities. The affection is more frequent in males than in females, and the majority of patients are between the ages of sixteen and thirty, though one of my cases occurred in a girl of five and a half, and the other in a girl aged four years. One serous cavity is usually invaded before the others, and the peritoneum is generally attacked first, then the pleurae, and the right pleura before the left. Sometimes the pleura is attacked before the peritoneum, pericarditis following the pleurisy especially when it has been on the left side. The interval between the invasion of the different serous sacs may be a few weeks or some months. The prognosis is fairly good. Picchini finds that in 50 cases there were 22 deaths, 21 re- coveries, and 7 cases improved ; in the two cases luider my own care the one recovered, the other died. Recovery may take place either com- pletely or with the formation of adhesions; the fatal termination may either be directly from suppuration, or more remotely from phthisis. The treatment consists in letting out the pus as it is formed in the different cavities, and by the use of mercurial inunctions over the affected parts, combined with the ordinary medical treat- ment of suppurative peritonitis (see p. 429). Peritonitis in the New-Born.—Fmtal or Intra-uterine Peritonitis.—Peritonitis in all its forms is known to occur during foetal life, for children are born dead with evidence of ascitic, adhesive, and suppurative inflammation. Syphilis is an assigned cause, probably with truth in many cases ; but that there are other reasons for the peritonitis is shown by the fact that of twins one may be born alive and healthy, the other dead with advanced peritonitis. The chronic peritonitis of foetal life is often associated with, and perhaps causes, an arrest in the development of the alimentary canal. I had such a case under my care on December 7, 1900, when a male child aged four days was brought to the Victoria Hospital for Children because the bowels had not been relieved since his birth. On passing a finger into the rectum a distinct membrane could be felt stretching across the bowel about 2| inches from the anus. The obstruction was considered to be due to an imperforate rectum, and the child was submitted to a left inguinal colotomy, but without much relief of symptoms, and he died seventeen hours after the operation. The autopsy showed that the bulk of the intestines were matted together to form a roundish mass. The adhesions were of long standing, and must have resulted from intra-uterine peritonitis. The intestine ended blindly about two feet below the stomach, and at a second point situated on the right side of the abdominal cavity. The bowel was almost black in colour; it was covered with lymph and presented many adhesions. Acquired Peritonitis.—Peritonitis is also found as an acquired disease in the new-born. It usually depends upon puerperal infection, and is brought about by the direct extension of septic inflammatory processes from the um- bilical cord. It is due in a few cases to rupture of the bowel resulting from an imperforate anus, or still more rarely to rupture of the sigmoid flexure which has been assumed by Zillner and Gersich to be due to direct pressure upon the bowel during parturition. I have also seen it start from the sloughing of the thin wall of a true exomphalos. The symptoms are often obscure, and the condition may not be recognised during life. But in a typical case the onset is sudden, with vomiting and a temperature of 103° to 105° F. The pulse is small and rapid, the respirations hurried, and there is great prostration. The abdomen becomes swollen and tympanitic, and there may or may not be diarrhoea. The prognosis is very bad as nearly all the cases die. Treatment. — Abdominal section is useless, but the stomach should be fomented with compresses soaked in hot boric lotion. Drop doses of paregoric may be given every hour with ten drops of brandy in a tea-spoonful of hot water. The child should be suckled, but if this is impossible it should be fed on small doses of peptonised food or raw meat juice. Post-mortem examination shows that the inflammation has been either local or general. The local inflammation is generally limited to the neighbourhood of the umbilicus or the liver. The infection is usually streptococcic. Peritonitis due to Actinomycosis.—Local- ised peritonitis is occasionally met with as a result of the invasion of actinomyces—the Ray fungus. The primary seat of growth is the alimentary tract or the liver, the appendix and caecum