PERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 433 The operation was first done in 1862 by Spencer Wells, who opened an abdomen for the removal of an ovarian tumour, only to find that the peritoneum was studded with miliary tubercles, and its cavity contained a large quantity of opalescent fluid. The operation has been performed repeatedly, and the latest stat- istics show that 70 to 80 per cent of the cases of tuberculous peritonitis are cured by this means, even when five years are allowed to elapse without recurrence before a patient is said to be cured. The mortality from the operation is not more than 3 per cent, and the cases which are not cured are markedly relieved. Recurrence takes place from time to time, and in the ascitic form the abdomen may refill. Abdominal section may then be repeated and with successful results, but in a few cases 1 have seen a tuberculous dermatitis spreading from the edge of the wound. The pathology of the cure is not understood, though it is supposed that the abdominal section excites so lasting an hypersemia of the perito- neum as to check the tubercular invasion. The best results are obtained in the ascitic forms where there are but few adhesions ; the least successful cases are those of miliary tubercle. Abdominal section is useless in patients who are suffering from general tuberculosis, exten- sive lesions of the lungs, tuberculosis of the liver, kidney, intestines, and female generative organs, though in the slighter cases the infected organ may be removed at the time the fluid is evacuated. The incision in the ordinary ascitic cases should be made below the umbilicus, care being taken not to wound the bowel or omentum, for they are often adherent to the peritoneum ; not to injure the bladder, which in children often extends higher in the abdomen than is expected ; and not to work too cautiously by dissecting with undue care through the thickened and cedematous subperitoneal tissues. These tissues are sometimes so greatly thickened in chronic tuberculous peritonitis as to be mistaken for the omentum, and an extensive dissection, by opening up difi"erent layers of tissue, militates against rapid healing of the wound. The peri- toneum should be cautiously pricked with a scalpel after it has been raised by forceps, and the incision should be enlarged with blunt- pointed scissors to the full extent of the wound, the fingers being used as a director to prevent injury to the bowel. The fluid should be allowed to escape freely, but the adhesions must be treated according to the individual case. The only general rule that can be laid down is to touch them as gently as possible—for they may bleed freely, and the htemorrhage is difficult to stop—and to do no more to them than is absolutely necessary. Even dense adhesions VOL. VII have been known to disappear completely after a simple abdominal section. I prefer not to flush the abdominal cavity, especially if there has been a localised abscess, as the cases do equally well without it, and there is some danger of disseminating the disease still more widely. Hot salt solution or boric lotion should be used when it is decided to flush the peritoneum ; and no antiseptic, how- ever weak, for it is impossible to remove it all from the abdominal cavity, and many pints are used if the infusion has been large. This was impressed upon me a year or two ago, when a patient from whom 1 had removed twenty quarts of tuberculous ascitic fluid had a sharp attack of mercurial poisoning, because I had flushed his abdomen with a 1 in 10,000 solution of biniodide of mercury. The abdominal wound should be sewn up at once if the effusion has been clear or only sero- purulent, but it must be drained freely if an abscess has been opened. All parts of the wound must be brought into good apposition, for there is some tendency to the formation of a ventral hernia after these operations. The drainage-tube should be removed at the end of two or three days. The after-treatment, upon which much of the success of the operation depends, consists in keeping the patient quiet, but not necessarily motionless, in bed, and in a room whose temper- ature is maintained at 65° F. Small doses of opium may be given for the first day or two after the operation if there is much pain ; if the temperature rises and enemata fail to act, a little magnesia or a few grains of calomel will reduce it by relieving the bowels. The food should be given in a concentrated form, and it may often be peptonised with advantage. A belt should be worn for a considerable time after the end of convalescence, in order still further to reduce the risk of a ventral hernia. Peritonitis associated with Pneumococci.—• Tuberculous peritonitis is likely to be mistaken for another insidious form of peritonitis asso- ciated with the presence of pneumococci. The affection exists in two forms—either primarily, when it may co-exist with meningitis, pleurisy, or pericarditis, or secondarily in con- nection with pneumonia. The disease runs a prolonged course, charac- terised by great pain, much meteorism, and constant vomiting. The bowels may remain regular throughout the attack, and there is often a normal temperature. The peritonitis is always suppurative, the pus being of the consistency of cream, greenish in colour, and with a tendency to clot. It has a faint and characteristic smell. Laparotomy affords the only prospect of successful treatment, and the sooner it is done the better, for the plastic exudation glues the intestines together and makes the operation difficult if it be delayed. 28