ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 188 flap is made of the outer wall of the orbit, the periosteum carefully separated from the bone and then incised, exposing the orbital contents. After taking away the new growth the flap is replaced. In all cases in which a malignant tumour cannot be satisfactorily removed without sacri- ficing the globe, excision of the eye should be first performed. If the tumour is then found to be extensive and to involve the periosteum or bone, the whole of the orbital contents should be removed, and chloride of zinc paste applied to the orbital walls after bleeding has ceased, in order to destroy any portions of tumour which have been left behind. In spite of such vigorous methods recurrence is by no means uncommon, and a second, or even a third, operation may be necessary. Exostosis of the orbit frequently admits of removal, and no other treatment of the tumour is of any avail. If the growth is large, removal of the eyeball may be necessary as a preliminary step. The operation is always diflficult and tedious, and by no means free from risk. If attached to the roof of the orbit, attempted removal of the growth may be followed by fatal meningitis. Of sixteen cases, in which the tumour sprang from the roof of the orbit and in which operation was performed, six were fatal (Berlin). In operating, the exostosis should be exposed, the periosteum incised and carefully peeled off, and the base or neck of the growth imcovered. A chisel is then used to the base, numerous small cuts being made, initil the bony mass becomes loosened. In some cases in which the bone is extremely hard, the base of the tumour may be first drilled by a dental drill in several places, and separation completed by using a chisel. If the tumour be pedunculated, its removal is usually easy. In cases in which, for any reason, removal of the tumour cannot be attempted, and in which there is much exoph- thalmos, it may be advisable to excise the eye- ball for the relief of pain. Non-malignant solid tumours of the orbit— for example, lipoma—should be extirpated with as little disturbance of the surrounding struc- tures as possible. Dermoid cysts and parasitic cysts are best treated by complete removal. In dealing with dermoids, every endeavour should be made to dissect out the cyst completely and without opening it. Great difficulty is experienced in removing a collapsed cyst, and if portions of the wall are left, recurrent growths will form. Cystic tumours should be cut down upon at their most prominent part, and every endeavour should be made to avoid injury to important structures, such as the ocular muscles or nerves. The treatment of cavernous angiomata should, whenever possible, consist of complete extirpa- tion. In many instances, especially if encap- suled, tbe whole of the new growth can be removed. When the tumour is too extensive for removal, repeated electrolysis is useful, and eventually induces considerable diminution in the size of the tumour, and a gradual decrease in the displacement of the globe and other structures. Pulsating Exophthalmos.—The term pulsa- ting exophthalmos is applied to a group of cases in which protrusion of the eyeball and pulsation of the orbital structures are the most noticeable features. In their clinical characters, all cases included under this heading have much in common, but in their pathology they exhibit considerable variation. The name should not be applied to cases of tumour of the orbit in which pulsation can be detected. The general features of pulsating exophthal- mos are as follows:—The eyeball is protruded directly forwards, or forwards and downwards; the conjunctiva and eyelids are swollen, and their blood-vessels dilated and tortuous. The exophthalmos is sometimes so extreme that the eyelids cannot be closed. If the hand is placed upon the protruding structures, distinct pulsa- tion, and frequently a thrill, are felt, and if the ear is applied, a soft blowing sound is heard. Not infrequently a compressible pulsating mass can be detected near the inner angle of the orbit, between the eyeball and the upper wall. The ocular movements are restricted, and oc- casionally there is partial or complete anaesthesia of the eyeball and other structures supplied by the first division of the trigeminal nerve. On ophthalmoscopic examination it is usual to find the retinal arteries narrowed and the veins greatly distended, tortuous, or even varicose, and sometimes pulsating. Occasionally the optic disc is swollen, and haemorrhages from the retinal vessels are visible ; in some cases there is atrophy of the optic disc. The subjective symptoms are pain, often severe and persistent, and a continual noise, which is usually very distressing to the patient. The noise is variously described as "humming," or "roaring," and is likened to the sound of escaping steam or falling water. Vertigo is also a frequent symptom. Failure of vision may or may not be present. If the protrusion of the eyeball is extreme, infiltration and ulceration of the cornea are likely to ensue. By firm pressure the exophthalmos can be diminished, and sometimes the eyeball restored to its normal position; but as soon as the pressure is removed, the globe again becomes prominent. Compression of the common carotid artery on the same side leads to recession of the globe, and arrest of the pulsation and thrill. The noise noticed by the patient is also stopped or greatly lessened. Two groups of cases of pulsating exophthalmos are described, the onset and course of which ex- hibit some differences. In the spontaneous or