257 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF pancreatic cysts are probably nearly always retention cysts, the result of obstruction in the ducts due to calculi or to changes in the walls of the ducts, the result of catarrh or other forms of inflammation. Senn pointed out (Amer. Journ. of Med. Set., 1885) that a sudden complete obstruction of the pancreatic duct did not lead to cystic changes unless there was at the same time some disease of the gland itself. As in the kidney, so probably in the pancreas, a sudden obstruction will lead to atrophy, but a gradually increasing obstruction to hydro- nephrosis in the kidney, and to cyst in the pancreas. The relation of cysts of the pancreas to injury cannot be doubted, and though many of these cases are caused by effusion into the lesser peritoneal sac, some may be due to a lacera- tion of the pancreas without rupture of the capsule, and then to accumulation of secretion and blood, which rapidly increases until a cyst is formed. Hsemorrhagic cysts in the pancreas are prob- ably nearly always traumatic, the exceptions being few ; but pancreatic haemorrhages do un- doubtedly occur apart from injury in some unexplained way, perhaps due to reflex nerve influence, and a disruption of the soft pancre- atic tissues may result in the formation of a cyst. I have operated on a case of so-called false pancreatic cyst dependent on tubercular peri- tonitis, leading to effusion in the lesser peritoneal sac, this limited effusion being easily explained by the fact that two years previously the patient was apparently cured of tubercular peritonitis by suprapubic drainage, which led to the ob- literation of the greater peritoneal sac, so that when there was a recurrence of the disease effusion could only occur in the unobliterated lesser cavity, leading to a swelling in the superior abdominal region. I have also operated on a false pancreatic cyst due to traumatism, the injury being very slight and scarcely recognisable as an accident, namely, the sudden pressure of a knife-board on the epigastrium, caused by a slip of the foot when a butler was cleaning knives, leading him to slip forward, but not to fall against his board. At the operation a week later I found not only the lesser sac full of sanguineous fluid, but also the greater peritoneal cavity containing a quantity of the same fluid, which had passed through a small rent in the great omentum just below the stomach. Symptoms.—In some cases of true pancreatic cyst, colicky symptoms like gall-stone attacks have preceded the formation of the cyst for months or years, but in others there have been no premonitory symptoms beyond slight digestive disturbances, until the tumour has been noticed, and then the symptoms have VOL. VII been those due to pressure on the stomach, and shortness of breath due to interference with the descent of the diaphragm. Glycosuria and fat in the stools are quite exceptional symptoms, and when present are probably due to the whole of the pancreas being involved, which is unusual. Loss of flesh may occur as the result of interference with digestion, and pain may occur in attacks resembling cholelithiasis. The tumour if sessile is fixed, but if the attachment be not very broad the top of the tumour may have a range of motion of two or three inches, and will then descend with respira- tion ; it is situated behind the stomach, and on distending that organ with COg the dulness will, as a rule, be quite hidden. In one case on which I operated a large cyst of the body and tail of the pancreas extended well up under the left costal arch, and made the case resemble a cyst of the spleen. In another, the close apposition of the cyst to the left lobe of the liver, its moving with the liver on deep inspiration, the displacement of the stomach downwards, and the slow growth of the tumour, led to the suspicion of its being a cyst of the liver. If the tumour be at the tail of the pancreas it may project into the loin and resemble a renal cyst, but, as a rule, bimanual palpation enables the kidney to be made out separately. Tapping as a means of diagnosis or treatment should never be adopted, as it involves risk of perforation of viscera and extravasation, and is attended with more danger than exploratory incision. Pancreatic cysts may occur at any age. They have been noticed in infancy and in extreme old age, but they usually occur between twenty and forty. Treatment.—As regards treatment, pancreatic cysts present a direct antithesis to ovarian cysts, for in the latter drainage is disastrous, and removal the best treatment, whereas in the former removal is rarely justifiable, and drainage is usually curative. In only one case have I seen a pancreatic cyst that I felt could be safely removed, and in that case, the tumour being almost pedunculated, the removal was effected quite simply, and was followed by recovery. The directions in which a pancreatic cyst may reach the surface and by which it may be approached are :— (1) Through the gastro-hepatic omentum "above the stomach." (2) Through the gastro - colic omentum "below the stomach." (3) Through the mesocolon "below the colon." (4) Through the loin behind the peritoneum. In the cases I have operated on, a cyst was enucleated on one occasion, recovery following : 17