NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 19 In some of the cases the skin was pigmented, presenting a diffused bronzed discoloration, like that of Addison's disease, or circumscribed macular or punctate pigmentation. Hyper- keratosis was the skin affection par excellence (Brooke and Leslie Roberts). It was best developed in the soles and palms, which pre- sented great thickening of the epidermis, with thick desquamating scales. In some cases there was a combination of erythema or pigmentation with the hyperkeratosis. The nervous symptoms were much the same as those of alcoholic neuritis. Of the sensory symptoms, pain in the limbs and feet, and great tenderness (hyperalgesia) of the muscles, were very prominent. The knee-jerks were often present, and increased at first for a very short period ; afterwards they disappeared. In addition to the detection of arsenic in the beer taken by many patients who suffered from neuritis from beer drinking, careful examination revealed the presence of this poison in the urine in a number of cases. Professor Dixon Mann and others found arsenic present in the desquamated epidermic scales, and also in the nails and hair. Post-mortem examination in some of the cases, but not in all, revealed a small quantity of arsenic in the internal organs. (For the detection of arsenic in beer and urine Reinsch's process appears to be the most con- venient for the medical practitioner.) A review of all the evidence published with respect to the peripheral neuritis in Manchester during the latter half of 1900, shows clearly that the increased prevalence of the disease can be largely attributed to the presence of arsenic in the beer. The analyses made by Mr. Kirkby of the kinds of beer which had been taken by a number of patients suffering from peripheral neuritis, gave an average of about O'll grain per gallon of arsenious oxide. The highest was ()"28 grain per gallon, the lowest O'Ol grain per gallon. Figures published by Professor Delepine gave the amount of arsenic as 0-14 to O'S grain per gallon. Afterwards, in several instances, larger quantities of arsenic were found. Many of the patients had taken very large quantities of beer, 1 to 1| or 2 gallons daily. As English beer contains usually about 5 per cent of alcohol, any individual taking one gallon of beer daily would consume about eight ounces of ethyl alcohol (equivalent to about sixteen ounces of brandy daily)—an amount of alcohol which would appear to be sufficient to cause neuritis apart from any arsenical contamination. All who believe that alcohol is capable of pro- ducing neuritis must admit that when the patient has taken very large quantities of ar- senical beer—more than a gallon daily—the resulting neuritis must be attributed in part, at least, to the alcohol. The arsenical con- tamination would, of course, increase the toxic action of the alcohol. In the case of the most contaminated specimens of beer examined by Dr. Delepine, a person consuming more than one gallon would take daily an amount of arsenic greater than that contained in ten minims of liquor arsenicalis three times a day. It is little wonder that the combination of the amount of alcohol just mentioned with this quantity of arsenic produced severe forms of neuritis. But in most of the specimens of beer examined the amount of arsenic in one gallon corresponded to much less than this qviantity. Also an interesting point, on which much stress has been laid, is the statement made by so many patients in the Manchester epidemic that the amount of beer taken had not been great— three or four glasses of the cheap beer daily. The amount of alcohol in the moderate quantity of beer taken by many of the patients would appear to be scarcely sufficient to cause neuritis. But, it may be asked. Would the amount of arsenic in these smaller quantities of beer be sufficient to produce neuritis 1 Making allowance for under-estimation of the quantity, it appears that many of the sufferers did not take more than three or four pints of beer daily. In some of the most contaminated specimens the amount of arsenic in this quantity of beer would be alone sufficient to produce the neuritis. But in nvimerous specimens the amount of ai-senic was small—from 0'14 to 0'3 grains per gallon (Professor Delepine's figures); and the amount in three pints would be equivalent to from two to four minims of liquor arsenicalis three times a day; and the amount in four pints would be equivalent to from about three to five minims of liquor arsenicalis three times a day. It has been pointed out by Sir Wm. Gowers and Dr. Buzzard that liquor arsenicalis can be taken medicinally, along with potassium bromide, for long periods by epileptic patients without neuritis being produced. Dr. R. W. Mackenna has shown that in cases treated with Donovan's solution for many months no neuritis is produced, although the amount of arsenic taken daily (as arseniovis iodide) is greater than the largest estimate given by Professor Delepine and Mr. Kirkby of the arsenious oxide in one gallon of beer. Also many patients suffering from anaemia, leucocythsemia, and Hodgkin's disease are often treated for long periods with quantities of liquor arsenicalis, which contain more arsenic than appears to have been taken by many of the sufferers from neuritis in the recent epidemic (judging from the analyses published by Dr. Delepine and Mr. Kirkby), and yet no neuritis has been produced. Gastro- intestinal symptoms and pigmentation of the skin appear to be produced much more readily than neuritis by large doses of arsenic given medicinally. But in medicinal doses the liquor arsenicalis is not associated with any other substance