PELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR 387 method is that of Currier. An area of mucous membrane is rawed, as shown in Fig. 7 A, broad enough to cause when c and d are brought together sufficient narrowing of the vaginal wall. In order to give the necessary shortening further areas are denuded, as shown in Fig. 7 B. When all bleeding has been stopped by means of pressure and hot water, OU c Fig. 7.—Anterior colporraphy. \v, Urethra ; oc, os uteri. (Skene Keith.) The swelling can be recognised, both by vaginal and by rectal examination, as a mass of intestine descending between the iixed and the movable portions of the pelvic floor. In the anterior vai'iety the sac of the hernia is formed by extension of the utero-vesical pouch intestine descending between the uterus and the bladder. The uterus is displaced back- wards, and on V vaginal examina- tion the sac with its contents is felt bulging into the vagina in front of the cer- vix, having pass- ed through the movable portion of the pelvic floor. The main fac- tor in the caus- ation of vaginal enterocele is in- creased intra- F I o 6 OU with ligatures if necessary, the round surfaces are united, as shown in Figs. 7 C and 7 D. Interrupted suture may be employed, or two continuous sutures of chromic acid cat-gut may be used. Suture 1 runs from a to f, and is then left long. Suture 2 runs from G to f, and is then left long. The portion of No. 1 is now used again, and runs from e to b, where it is finally tied off. The remainder of No. 2 now closes the wound by running from i to K, and the operation is complete. Coughing, vomiting, and straining must be avoided while union is taking place. No dressing is necessary, nor is vaginal douching desirable, but rest in bed should be continued for quite two weeks. Faults in the Movable Portion op the Pelvic Floor Vaginal Enterocele. — This is a very rare condition which, strictly speaking, is a form of hernia, since its essential feature is the forma- tion of a sac lined by peritoneum and occupied by small intestine or omentum (or occasionally by ovary), which protrudes through an opening in the pelvic floor into the vagina. The con- dition is perfectly clearly distinguished from prolapsus uteri by the fact that in vaginal enterocele the hernia descends through the movable portion of the pelvic floor, and is not a descent of that portion of the floor, en masse. There are two varieties of vaginal enterocele, the anterior and the posterior. In the posterior variety coils of intestine separate the rectum from the posterior vaginal wall, the pouch of Douglas being deepened and extended. Sometimes the hernia penetrates the muscular wall of the vagina, and its peritoneal sac is covered only by the vaginal mucosa. abdominal pressure. There is usually a history of a fall, of straining, of heavy lifting, or of parturition. In slight cases, it is generally possible to select a pessary which will prevent discomfort. In more pronounced cases of the anterior variety an anterior colpotomy will allow the operator to push up the sac without cutting the peri- FIG. 8.—Posterior vaginal enterocele. (Hart and Barbour.) toneum. By suturing the anterior surface of the uterus to the upper portion of the anterior vaginal wall the canal is obliterated, and the future descent of the sac is rendered impossible. In posterior enterocele the appropriate operative treatment consists in rawing the upper portion of the posterior vaginal wall and folding it upon itself transversely, so as to shorten the wall and bring the cervix close to the reflexion of the peritoneum from the wall of the rectum.