NYCTALOPIA 137 Affections, Albinism); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnormalities of Iris) ; Retina and Optic Nerve (Retinitis Pigmentosa); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Disappeai-ance of Melanin, Albinism). Nyctanthes.—The seeds and flowers of the nyctanthes arbor tristis or mourner tree are used in India as a cardiac tonic, the root in asthma and phthisis, and the leaves in rheuma- tism and fevers. NyctiplanctUS.—A sleep-walker (Gr. vvi, night, 7rA.avKTos, wandering). Nyctobadia or Nyctobatia.— Sleep-walking ; somnambulism ; noctambulation (q.v.). Nyctophobia.—A morbid dread of the night. Nyctophonia. — Loss of voice during the day. See Hysteria. NyctOtheruS Faba.—A ciliated in fusorian found in the human intestine. See Parasites (Protozoa, Infusoria). Nylander's Test.—A test for glucose in diabetes, etc., in which 1 cc. of Nylander's solution (made by dissolving 4 grammes of sodium potassium tartrate or Rochelle salt in 100 cc. of a 10 per cent caustic soda solution, and adding 2 grammes of subnitrate of bismuth) is added to 10 cc. of urine and boiled; a black deposit indicates the pi-esence of glucose. Nymphse.—The two folds of delicate mucous-membrane-like skin lying one on each side of the anterior part of the entrance to the vagina, within the labia majora; the labia minora. See Generation, Female Organs of {External Generative Organs). Nymphectomy.—Removal of one or both nymphfe. Nymphomania.—A form of insanity in women characterised by excessive venereal desire. See Climacteric Insanity (Clinical Forms); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Insane Impulsiveness). Nymphophobia. —Sexual fear. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Insane Im- pulsiveness). Nystagfmus.—A congenital or acquired anomaly in which there is involuntary oscilla- tion of the eyeballs, usually in the transverse ■direction. See Amblyopia (Congenital Am- blyopia, Complications); Brain, Tumours of (Diagnosis); Brain, Inflammations (Acute En- cephalitis, Clinical Features); Brain, Cerebel- lum, Affections of (Tumours, Symptomatology); Choroid, Diseases of (Congenital Affections, Albinism); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Ophthal- mia Neonatorum, Sequelce) ; Head - Shaking (Clinical Featu7-es); Meningitis, Tuberculous (Symptoms); Mental Deficiency (Diagnosis); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis (Symp- tovis. Sensory); Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Nystagmus); Pharynx, Examination of (Neuroses of Motion, Nystagmus-like Move- ments) ; Syringomyelia (Symptoms, Bulbar). Nysten'S Law.—The order in which the muscles are affected in rigor mortis— mviscles of mastication, of face, of neck, of trunk, of arms, and of legs. O.—In prescribing (q.v.), 0 is the abbrevia- tion used for a pint (Lat. octarius); it is also, in chemistry, the symbol for oxygen. Oakum.—The loose fibre obtained from the picking of old rope; it has been used as a dressing for wounds and as a pad to absorb offensive discharges ; marine lint. Oaths. See Medicine, Forensic (Pro- cedure). Oatmeal.—Meal made from oats, used as porridge as a food and also for making poultices. Grinding is the usual means of preparing oat- meal, but when rolling (with the application of heat) is used instead the product is called rolled oats. Bread cannot be made from oats for they contain no glutin. See Physi- ology, Food and Digestion (Vegetable Food- Stuffs, Cereals). Oban. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts (Scotland). Obdormition.—The state of a part of the body commonly called "sleeping" or " asleep " ; it is a form of numbness due usually to pressure upon the nerve. O'Beirne's Sphincter.—The circular bundle of muscular fibres in the wall of the rectum just below the point whei'e it becomes continuous with the colon. O'Beirne's Tube. — A flexible tube, long enough to pass up into the rectum for the giving of injections. Obelion.—The term obelion (Gr. o^eXo's, a spit or point) has been given to a point on the sagittal suture between the two parietal fora- mina (through which the veins of Santorini pass), where the suture becomes simple (instead of being serrated); it is about four-fifths of the length of the suture from the front, and it is here that its closure usually begins. Obermeier's Spirillum. — The specific cause of relapsing or famine fever, dis- covered in 1868 by Obermeier.