OSTEOMALACIA 196 advance of the disease and cause exacerbations. About 74 per cent of the recorded cases have occurred in connection with pregnancy, the remainder being divided between nuUiparous women and men. The disease is so rare in most parts of the world that it is considered as endemic in portions of Italy and Switzerland, in Bavaria, Wurtemburg, Baden, and Alsace, where it is frequently observed. So many theories are still in vogue as to the cause of osteomalacia, that it is clear that we have no real knowledge of the matter. The view which explains the greatest number of the features of the disease is that it is a primary affection of the nerve-cells of the cord. The nervous symptoms have been regarded as due to pressure consequent on deformity, but in reality they appear before there is any change in the bones. Charcot's disease forms a sug- gestive parallel. Nervous diseases are markedly hereditary, which accounts for the distribution of osteomalacia better than suppositions as to food and water. Indeed starvation, exposure, frequent pregnancy, and prolonged lactation are of so universal distribution that it is impos- sible to regard them as causes of a disease so restricted to certain localities. As secondary causes, given a primary and inherited nervous lesion, they may well act in making manifest a latent weakness. The early diagnosis of osteomalacia is not possible. Most cases are considered either as rheumatism or as spinal disease until deformity appears. The so-called osteomalacia carcinoma- tosa is the only condition with which advanced cases may be confused, and this is usually dis- tinguished by other evidences of malignant disease, primary or secondary. Assuming that the primary lesion of osteomalacia is a spinal one, an early provisional diagnosis of spinal disease would of course be correct, and would be made more definite on the appearance of de- formity. The prognosis is now very much better than was the case a few years ago. Hygienic surroundings, cod-liver oil, phosphorus, bone- marrow, and salt baths have all given excellent results. The idea that removal of the ovaries cures the disease has arisen partly as a corollary to the theory that reflex irritation from the reproductive organs is its cause. The numerous recoveries which have occurred after Porro's operation (done to secure delivery at term in cases of advanced deformity) have suggested the adoption of double oophorectomy (sometimes accompanied by removal of the uterus) for the cure of the disease in non-pregnant women. As, however, numerous women (and men) have recovered under good surroundings and internal medication, these should always be patiently tried, and should be continued even after operation, should this be thought neces- sary ; for many cases of relapse after oophorec- tomy have ultimately recovered luider medical treatment. For the course which should be followed when a sufferer from osteomalacia is pregnant, the reader is referred to the discussion of the subject under the heading " Labour, Con- tracted Pelvis." Osteomyelitis. —Inflammation of the marrow of a bone. See Bone, Diseases of {Osteomyelitis due to Staphylococci and to Pyo- genic Organisms); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Acute Osteomyelitis in Vicinity of the Joint); Knee- JoiNT, Diseases op {Pyogenic Disease of Femur and Tibia) ; Scurvy, Infantile {Diagnosis) ; Spine, Surgical Affections op {Acute Osteo- myelitis) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones and Joints). Osteopathy.—A morbid condition of a bone; more commonly, that system of healing in which all diseases are attributed to misplace- ment or other lesion of bones. Osteoperiostitis. —Inflammation affecting both the bone and the superjacent periosteum. See Bone, Diseases op. Osteopliyte.—A bony deposit, especi- ally such as occurs on the inner surface of the cranial bones, e.g. in pregnancy. See Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications {Osseous Changes, Osteophytes). Osteoplasty. — Plastic operations per- formed upon bones; osteoplastic surgery. Osteoporosis.—Absorption and atrophy of bone leading to widening of the medullary spaces. See Hip-Joint, Injuries of {Bruised Hip, Sequelae, Chronic Osteoporosis). OsteopsatiiyrosiS.—Fragilitasossium (Gr. oa-riov, bone, ij/a6vp6';, crumbling or friable). See Fragilitas Ossium. Osteosarcoma.—A sarcomatous tu- mour containing bone, or a fibrous tumour developing from the periosteum. Osteosclerosis. — Hardening or ebur- nation of bone, as occurs in condensing osteitis. See Insanity, Pathology of {Pathological Ana- tomy). Osteotomy. — The division of a bone either simple {linear osteotomy) or with the removal of a wedge-shaped portion {cuneiform osteotomy). See Deformities ; Kickets ; etc. Ostium.—An aperture or mouth, e.g. the ostium abdominale of the Fallopian tube by which the tube communicates with the peri- toneal cavity, the ostium aorticum of the heart, etc. See Fallopian Tubes {Inflammation, Closure of the Ostium); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Anatomy, Antrum, Ostium Maxillare). Osweg^O.—A preparation of maize, com- posed largely of starchy elements. Otalg^ia.—Pain in the ear ; earache.