PARASITES 340 mals. Rabbits are frequently the host, and man harbours certain species. The life-cycle of coccidiida closely resembles that of hfemosporidia. In fact, with a single exception, there are two alternating generations with two modes of multiplication—(1) a sexual multiplication by " spore" formation (sporo- gony) ; and (2) an asexual by fission (schizo- gony), both occui'ring without a change of host. The life-cycle of Coccidium cuniculi will serve as an example, (i.) Spwogony.—In the faeces of infected rabbits there are oval or spherical encapsuled parasites termed oocysts. Outside the body of the host, the sporont, or uninuclear content of an oocyst, divides into usually four cells (sporoblasts), and each sporoblast acquiring Fig. 3.—Diagram of the developmental cycle of Coccidium Schubergi. (Ltihe, after Scliaudinn.) 1. Sporozoite (or merozoite) penetrating into an epi- thelial cell. 2. Fully-developed schizont. 3. Nuclear proliferation pre- paratory to—4. Formation of merozoites. 5. and 5a. Sexual elements (5, macrogamete ; 5a, microgametocyte). 6. and 6a. Kipe sexual elements (6a, microgametocyte forming microganietes). 7. Fertilisation. 8. Young oocyst. 9. Sporoblast formation in the oocyst. 10. Formation of sporo- zoites within sporoblasts transformed into sporocysts. 11. Sporozoite. a highly resistant membrajae is now termed a " spore" or sporocyst. Each sporocyst then divides into two uninuclear crescentic bodies (sporozoites), and if the sporocysts be ingested by a suitable host the sporozoites penetrate into epithelial cells—for example, those of the bile- ducts, (ii.) Schizogony.—A sporozoite having entered a cell alters its form, enlarges, and is termed a schizont, which by multiple division gives origin to many njerozoites, some of which again enter epithelial cells and develop into schizonts. Other merozoites develop into either female or male elements, termed respectively macrogametes and microgametocytes, each of the latter giving origin to many microgametes. A macrogamete having been fertilised by a microgamete, a young oocyst is produced. The process of " spore " formation results in the in- fection of many epithelial cells ; that known as schizogony is concerned also with the infection of other hosts. Coccidium cuniculi (Rivolta, 1878); Syn.: C. oviforme (Leuckart, 1879).—The oocyst (stage 8, Fig. 3) is oval, and measures 33-40 /x long by 14 to 28 fjL broad. Most of the coccidia seen in the tissues of the host are at this stage of development. The presence of these sporozoa causes the disease designated coccidiosis ; the term psorospermosis is not so precise and should be discontinued. The disease is most frequent in young rabbits—Delepine (1890) found lesions visible to the naked eye in 92 per cent—and is rare in man, the horse, ox, pig, and goat. In all cases, infection doubtless occurs by the in- gestion of food contaminated by the faeces of an affected rabbit. In the rabbit the disease is either acute or chronic, and either terminates fatally or in recovery. The liver is found en- larged, and both on its surface and on section presents numerous greyish- white nodules or cysts—dilated intra- hepatic bile-ducts—varying in size from a hemp-seed to a hazel-nut, and each containing a thick yellowish or creamy debris. On microscopic ex- amination the walls of these dilated bile-ducts are seen to be thickened by much fibrous tissue, and present papuliferous outgrowths towards the lumen, which is more or less filled with oocysts. These must not be mistaken for ova of trematodes, which they re- semble in shape. Many of the lining epithelial cells contain schizonts, others are desquamated. Coccidiosis in the liver of the human subject is a rare disease. Cases have been recorded by Gubler (1858), Silcock (1890), and others. The liver has shown essenti- ally the same changes as are observed in the livers of infected rabbits. Podwyssozki (1889), however, stated that the coccidia also inhabit the liver cells, and are to be found widely scattered through the organ. There is often some diffuse cirrhosis, and the patients have suffered from anaemia, jaundice, and emaciation. In one instance C. cuniculi is claimed to have caused the development in the brain of a nodule of bone as large as a pea (J. J. Thomas, 1899). Lastly, the coccidia associated with the dis- ease termed die rothe Ruhr, a hsemorrhagic diar- rha3a of oxen in Switzerland, are regarded as identical with C. cuniculi (Guillebeau, 1894; etc.). Coccidium hominis (Rivolta, 1878); Syn.: C. perforans (Leuckart, 1879), is possibly identical with C. cuniculi. It is parasitic in tiic intestine chiefly of young rabbits, causing enteritis which is often fatal. The coccidium is found in the intestinal epithelium, sometimes also in the