NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 113 with the aid of good illumination. The proxi- mal end of the probe must be bent downwards so that the operator's hand does not obstruct his line of vision; at the distal end of the instrument a curve 3 cms. in length is made, forming an angle of about 135° with the shaft. It may be found necessary to vary this curve slightly in different cases, so that its angle cannot always be stated with mathematical accuracy. Sometimes, too, it may be necessary to bend the extremity somewhat in a lateral direction. As in the majority of cases fewer ethmoidal openings lie on the inner or septal aspect of the fronto-nasal duct, it is advisable to keep the point of the probe towards the mesial plane, and even in contact with the outer surface of the upper portion of that part of the middle turbinated body which has not been previously removed. No force must be employed, but the instrument gently insinuated upwards and forwards until a sense of resistance makes further entrance impossible. The probe should then be grasped between the finger and thumb where the upper lip joins the nostril, and gently withdrawn. During its withdrawal the fronto-nasal region must be carefully ex- amined, and the reappearance of pus in the track of the probe noted. The portion of the probe which has been inserted is then laid against the outside of the nose, and the position of its point located externally. If, when held in this position, the point of the instrument is found to reach above the supra-orbital margin, it may be justly assumed that it had previously entered the frontal sinus. The distance of the floor of the frontal sinus from the anterior naris has been estimated by Hansberg as 60 mm. (6 cms.), while Cholewa found it to be 70 mm. In some cases, however, there remains a feeling of doubt as to whether the probe has really entered the frontal sinus or one of the anterior ethmoid cells grouped round the floor of the sinus. The Rontgen rays have been successfully employed in locating the end of the probe within the frontal sinus. The probe test should next be supplemented by the introduction of a frontal cannula. For this purpose Hartmann's may be used. I have found the pattern introduced by Brown Kelly of Glasgow very satisfactory, and fulfilling all the necessary requirements. To the proximal end of the catheter a piece of rubber tubing and a Politzer's bag are attached; inflation is then carried out during careful inspection of the interior of the nose. Pus mixed with air may then be seen to be driven downwards. Gentle syringing of the cavity may be substituted, and pus looked for in the lotion. The frequency of an associated frontal and ethmoidal suppuration undoubtedly increases the difficulty of diagnosing the existence of the former. If a considerable quantity of pus be expelled by inflation or syringing, suspicion of VOL. VII an aff"ection of the larger cavity will be raised, but it may be necessary to treat the ethmoid condition before it is possible to recognise that pus is coming from a higher source. There still remain some cases in which, in the present state of our knowledge, an external opening into the frontal sinus is necessary before an exact diagnosis can be arrived at. We must duly weigh all the clinical phenomena taken together, and not seek to draw a conclusion for or against frontal sinus suppuration from this or that individual sign. C. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in the Anterior Ethmoidal Cells.—We have already drawn attention to the fact that suppuration in the frontal sinus is very frequently associated with the same affection in the anterior ethmoidal cells. Similarly, the latter cells may also be affected in association with maxillary sinus disease though by no means with the same frequency. It may not be possible, therefore, to accurately establish the diagnosis of ethmoid cell suppuration without first satisfying ourselves as to the condition of these other cavities. Hence a diagnosis may be arrived at by a process of exclusion. The examination of the ethmoid region will be greatly facilitated by the removal of the greater portion of the middle turbinated bone, if this has not been already done when exploring the frontal sinus. If this bone should contain an air-cell the latter may be found to contain pus, while its lining membrane may be swollen and thickened. The field of observation is thus considerably enlarged, and a number of small polypi with pus oozing from between them may then be detected. If a fine probe, with its extremity bent somewhat outwards, be pushed upwards between these polypi in the direction of the ethmoid cells, an increased flow of puru- lent secretion may be observed to follow this manoeuvre. It has been asserted that the probe thus introduced comes in contact with granula- tion tissue and areas of carious bone. It must be borne in mind, however, that it is very difficult in this situation to conclude from the sense of touch whether the bone is actually carious, and whether the probe is in a cavity lined with granulations or with a healthy mucous membrane. After completing this part of the examination the polypi should be re- moved, and on a subsequent occasion the nose should again be carefully inspected and the source of the pus sought for. If the formation of the nasal chamber permit the examiner to localise the position of the hiatus semilunaris and bulla ethmoidalis, he should proceed to occlude the former by means of a cotton-wool tampon. The nose is then cleaned, and an attempt is made with a probe or cannula to enter the ethmoid cells lying above the bulla by passing the instrument upwards and out- wards. Inflation through the catheter may 8