536 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM and vitreous. The refractive indices of these, compared with air as unity, may be expressed as follows:— Cornea . 1-33 Lens . .1-45 Aqueous . 1"33 Vitreous . r33 Thus light passes from a medium of one refractive index into a medium of another refractive index— L At the anterior surface of the cornea ; 2. At the anterior surface of the lens; 3. At the posterior surface of the lens ; and at these surfaces it is bent. The degree of bending depends upon—1st, The difference of refractive index ; 2nd, The obliquity with which the light hits the surface. This will vary with the convexity of the lens—being greater the greater the convexity. The posterior surface of the lens has the greatest convexity, with a radius of 6 mm. The anterior surface of the cornea has the next greatest, with a radius of 8 mm. The anterior surface of the lens has the least, Avith a radius of 10 mm. A ray of light passing obliquely through these media will be bent at the three surfaces. These media, in fact, form the physiological lens, a compound lens composed of a convexo- concave part in front, the cornea and aqueous, and a biconvex part, the crystalline lens, behind. In the resting normal eye (emmetropic eye) the principal focus is exactly the distance behind the lens at which the layer of rods and cones in the retina is situated, and thus it is upon these that light coming from luminous points at a distance is focussed. Positive Accommodation. — If an object is brought nearer and nearer to the eye, the rays of light entering the eye become more and more divergent; and if the eye be set so that rays from a distance —i.e. parallel rays— are focussed, then Fig. 53.—To show that rays from c distant and near objects are not ^ays irom a nearer focussed on the retina at the same obiect will be fo- time. n 1 1 . T , cussed behmd the retina, and a clear image will not be formed (Fig. 53). This means that near and far objects cannot be distinctly seen at the same time, a fact which can be readily demonstrated by Scheiner's Experiment. Make two pin-holes in a card so near that they fall within the diameter of the pupil. Close one eye and hold the holes in front of the other. Get someone to hold a needle against a sheet of white paper at about three yards from the eye, and hold another needle in the same line at about a foot from the eye. When the near needle is looked at the far needle becomes double (Fig. 54). It is found that objects at a greater distance than 6 metres may practically be considered as " distant," and that they are focussed on the retina. Objects may be brought nearer and nearer to the eye, and yet be seen distinctly up to a certain point, the near point of accommodation within which they cannot be sharply focussed upon the retina. This, however, requires a change in the lens arrangement of the eye, and this change, beginning when the object FIQ. 54.—Scheiner's experiment - ■ represents rays from the near needle and - - - - rays from the far needle. comes within about 6 metres (the far point of accommodation), becomes greater and greater, till it can increase no further when the near point is reached. The change is called positive accommodation, and it consists in an increased curvature of the anterior surface of the lens. This may be proved by examining the images formed from the three refracting surfaces (Sanson's images), when it will be found that the image from the anterior surface of the lens becomes smaller and brighter when the eye is directed to a near object. The examination of these images is facilitated by the use of the Phakoscope. Positive accommodation is brought about by contraction of the ciliary muscle (see p. 534), which pulls forward the ciliary processes to which the hyaloid membrane is attached, and thus relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens and the front of the lens capsule, and allows the natural elasticity of the lens to bulge it forward (Fig. 55). This change of positive accommodation is FlQ. 55.—Mechanism of positive accommodation. The con- tinuous lines show the parts in negative accommodation, the dotted lines the positive accommodation. accompanied by a contraction of the pupil due to contraction of the sphincter pupillje muscle. By this means the more divergent peripheral rays which would have been focussed behind the central ones to produce a blurred image are cut off, and spherical aberration is prevented. The muscles acting in positive accommoda- tion—the ciliary and sphincter pupilla) (Fig. 55, CM. and S.P.)—are supplied by the third cranial nerve (///.), while the dilator pupilla; is supplied by fibres passing up the sympathetic of the neck. The centre for the third nerve is