PHARYNX—ACUTE PHARYNGITIS 467 cessive much relief may be afforded by making a few punctures with a fine scalpel, followed by the frequent use of warm alkaline gargle. When the acute attack has subsided, the administration of quinine and iron, the hypo- phosphites or other tonics, and the local use of an astringent gargle, e.g. Borax grs. xxiv, glycerine irixx, tr. myrrh nxxxiv, water to §j ; or even a daily gargle of salt water, 3ss to half a pint, will do much to hasten convalescence and promote a healthy condition of the pharyn- geal mucous membrane. B. Acute Septic Inflammations op the Pharynx.—From clinical and bacteriological evidence Semon (and in this he was ably supported by the late Professor Kanthack) regards the various forms of acute septic inflam- mation of the throat, e.g. "hospital sore throat," acute oedema of the larynx and pharynx, phleg- mon and erysipelas of these parts, and submaxil- lary cellulitis (Ludwig's angina), as identical pathological processes, varying only in their degree of virulence. While the streptococcus pyogenes is the organism most often associated with these acute septic inflammations, clinical evidence has been adduced to show that iden- tical pathological conditions may occasionally be produced by the staphylococcus pyogenes, micrococcus tenius, and various forms of bacilli. Acute septic inflammation of the throat may be primary or secondary. In the former it is probable that the organisms gain access to the tissues through some breach of the surface epithelium of the pharynx, fauces, or tonsils. In the second category the disease may spread inwards from the face or nose, and possibly arise in some cases from the pharyngeal tonsil. In yet other instances the acute inflammation may start beneath the deep cervical fascia of the submaxillary region (Ludwig's angina), and secondarily infect the pharynx and larynx. In such a case the primary inflammation may arise from cold; it is also said to occur in epidemics, as an extension from the inflamed glands of scarlet fever, or the poison may gain access by means of a wound or through a carious tooth. The disease is most common in alcoholics. Pathology.—The inflammation of the sub- mucous tissue varies much in intensity in the different forms of acute septic inflammation of the throat, and the resulting exudation may be serous, purulent, or even gangrenous. While the inflammation may remain limited to the pharynx, it usually tends to spread to the larynx, and less commonly to the naso- pharynx. The relation between such inflammations and the associated micro-organisms has already been referred to, but it may be pointed out that, as a general rule, streptococcal infection is more acute and virulent than that produced by the other pathogenetic organisms mentioned above. Symptoms.—In the milder forms of septic pharyngitis, beyond the local discomfort, slight fever, headache, and constitutional depression, there is little to cause anxiety. In the severer forms the disease may be ushered in by chills or rigors, a high tempera- ture (102° to 106°), and a general feeling of malaise. The pulse, at first full and strong, soon becomes more frequent and feeble, while the general prostration of the patient affords a good index of the evil effects of septic absorption upon the system. At the onset of the disease the temperature is usually high, but it then follows an atypical course, varying with the virulence of the poison and the degree of its absorption. The urine frequently contains sugar, and albumen is occasionally present. In all forms of the disease pain in the throat and dysphagia are early and well-marked symptoms. These are soon followed by a weak voice and difficulty of breathing, owing to the swelling of the pharyngeal and neighbouring mucous membranes. The fauces, uvula, and pharyngeal mucous membranes are deeply congested and swollen; the tonsils are red, swollen, and acutely inflamed. The submaxillary cervical glands are always swollen and tender. As a rule the inflamma- tion does not long remain localised to the pharynx, but passes downwards to the larynx, inducing, in addition to the symptoms already enumerated, a croupy cough, marked dyspnoea, aud pain in and around the larynx. If the tongue be firmly depressed, or a laryn- goscopic examination be made, the epiglottis, aryepiglottic folds, and the arytenoid region will be seen to be swollen, red, and oedematous. This swelling may increase with such rapidity, and the dyspnoea become so urgent, that the patient's life may at any moment be in im- minent peril from asphyxia. The dyspnoea is mainly inspiratory, because the inflammatory swelling is limited to the mucous membranes situated above the level of the vocal cords. Such cases may, however, recover, especially when suppuration does not occur; the advent of the latter always renders the disease a very serious one, and especially so in those instances where the suppurative process is limited to the pharynx (Senator's phlegmon). Under such circumstances a gangrenous slough may form in the submucous tissues, and severe toxaemia rapidly supervene. Sometimes the inflammation, serous or sup- purative, spreads beyond the larynx to the tissues of the neck, inducing much swelling thereof, while evidences of pneumonia, peri- carditis, pleurisy, peritonitis, or meningitis would indicate a more general infection of the system by the locally generated poison. Diagnosis.—The sudden onset of the disease, the rapid spread of the inflammation, livid ft