220 OXYNITE PROCESS Oxynite Process.—A subsidence and precipitation process for the disposal of sewage in which oxynite (a substance containing man- ganese compounds) is used to oxygenate the sewage. OxyntiC Cells.—Cells secreting acid, e.g. those cells of the fundus of the stomach which secrete hydrochloric acid. See Physi- ology, Food and Digestion (Structure of Ali- mentary Canal). Oxyopia..—Unusual acuteness of vision. Oxyphile.—Attracting acid dyes; a term applied to eosinophilic leucocytes. See Physi- ology, Blood and Lymph {Cells of Blood). Oxyprotein.—A proteid unusually rich in oxygen. Oxypurin. See Uric Acid {Chemical Characters, Hypoxanthin). Oxyquinoline. —A hydroxyl substitu- tion preparation of quinoline (CgH^NO) made by digesting quinoline with a bleaching-lime solution. Oxytocics. — Remedies which increase the contractions of the uterus, especially during or immediately after labour ; ecbolics (q.v.). See Ergot ; Quinine ; etc. OxyurisVermiCUlariS.—The thread- worm or pin-worm. See Parasites {Nematodes). Oysters. See Food {Fish, Typhoid Fever); Invalid-Feeding {Peptonised Foods, Oysters); Invalid-Feeding {Salisbury Diet); Toxicology {Shell-Fish); Typhoid Fever {Etiology, Food). Ozsena. See Nose, Chronic Inflamma- tion {Atrophic Rhinitis, Foetid Ozceria). See also Breath {Odour); Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Physical Signs). Ozokerite.—A solid hydrocarbon found in Galicia, and used instead of beeswax in Russia; when purified it forms ceresine. It is used in some skin diseases. Ozone.—An allotropic form of oxygen, more powei'ful than oxygen, and acting as bleach- ing, disinfecting, and oxidizing, agent; it is produced during the slow oxidation of phos- phorus, and by the eiTect of the silent electrical discharge in air in a box (Ozone Generator); the formula of its molecule is O3. See Air, Examination of {Ozone). Ozonoform.—A proprietary preparation said to contain ozone and a pine distillate; it has a disinfecting action. Ozonometer and Ozonoscope. —Instruments for the detection and estimation of ozone in the atmosphere; their action depends upon the effect of ozone on test-papers soaked in a solution of potassium iodide and starch, iodine being set free by the ozone and colouring the starch blue. Ozostomia.—Foul smell of the mouth or breath. Pacchionian Bodies.—Fleshy ex- crescences on the surface of the dura mater, especially in the neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses ; they are really projections from the arachnoid ; through them fluid can pass from the subarachnoid space into the venous sinuses into which they project. The depressions on the inner aspect of the cranial bones corresponding to these bodies are called Pacchionian depressions. See Meninges of the Cerebruji {Anatomy and Physiology). Pachy-. — In compound words pachy- (Gr. Traxijs, thick, large) means thick or massive ; e.g. pachyodont (having large teeth), pachypod (having a large foot), pachytrichous (having thick hair), etc. Pachyakry.—Acromegaly {q.v.). Pachyblepharon or Pachy- blepharosiS.—Thickening of the eyelids of an inflammatory nature. Pachycephaly. — Thickness of the skull, due sometimes to early synostosis be- tween the parietal bones and the occiput. Pachydactyly.—A thickened condition of the digits, sometimes congenital. Pachydermia. — Thickening of the skin, or (rarely) of a mucous membrane, e.g. of the larynx; elephantiasis. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {Pachy- dermia Laryngis); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases (Congenital Elephantiasis); Sclero- dbrmia ; Scrotum, Diseases of {Elephantiasis Scroti); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxcedema). Pac h y g^l OSSO U S.—Thick-tongued. Pac h y gf n at h O us.—Thick-jawed. Pachyhaemia or Pachyaemia.— Thickness of the blood. PachytOSiS.—A skin disease, character- ised by thickening of the epidermis {Erasmus Wilson). Pachymeningitis.—Inflammation of the cerebro-spinal dura mater {pachymeninx, the dura mater). See Brain, Surgery of {Intracranial Inflammation); Insanity, Patho- logy OF (Pathological Anatomy, Dura Mater); Meninges of the Cebebrum {Inflammation of