248 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF unite with calcium salts, forming white patches of various sizes in the subperitoneal fat and in the omentum and mesentery. It was first described by Balser in 1882, but has been since investigated by Langerhans, Hildebrand and Dettiner, Milisch, Williams, and Opie. Experi- ments by Opie, who ligatured the pancreatic ducts in the cat, go to show that widespread fat necrosis may be expected to follow very rapidly. Hcemorrhage in Pancreatic Diseases.—It is well known that hsemorrhages into the pancreas may occur apart from injury, and that, although they may be recovered from, as shown by the remains of extravasated blood in the gland in persons dying from other diseases, yet such spontaneous hfemorrhages may lead to death from collapse either immediately or after some hours. Curiously, this may occur in persons appar- ently in good health, and without any premoni- tory signs on which a diagnosis can be based, the only symptoms at the time being those of collapse with dyspnoea and feeble pulse. It is also well recognised that a hsemorrhagic condition co-exists with cancer of the head of the pancreas. Some years ago I thought this to be altogether dependent on the cholaemia, until increased experience in operations on deeply jaundiced subjects has taught me that there is much less danger of serious haemorrhage in patients jaundiced from gall-stones than in those where the jaundice depends on pancreatic disease. In several cases of cancer of the pan- creas on which I have operated, the bleeding has been the immediate cause of death ; in one aged subject especially was this well marked after a cholecystotomy for the relief of jaundice. Death occurred on the third day from collapse, and at the autopsy there was found extensive effusion of blood away from the site of operation and behind the peritoneum, extending into the loins, around the kidneys, and into the cellular tissue beneath the diaphragm, the blood being in sufficient quantity to account for death ; and though the bleeding had evidently arisen from the pancreas, there was no manifest vascular legion to account for the hsemorrhage. In another case, sent to me in 1888 by Professor Clifford AUbutt, a cholecystotomy was followed by persistent oozing of blood from the anterior of the gall-bladder and from the stitch punctures, which resisted all then known remedial measures in the way of styptics, pressure, transfusion, etc., and proved fatal on the ninth day. In neither of these cases was there any peritonitis or other cause than the hsemorrhage to account for death. Before operating on these cases I now always administer chloride of calcium in 15 to 20 grain doses, thrice daily, from twenty-four to forty- eight hours previous to operation, and by enema in 30-grain doses afterwards, if it appears to be necessary. The use of simple sterilised horse serum, either subcutaneously in 10 c.c. doses or by mouth or rectum in 20 c.c. doses, appears also to be useful, but further trial is necessary before it can be recommended absolutely. These arguments are brought forward to show that there is some as yet ill-understood relation between pancreatic disease and serious hsemor- rhage ; but I cannot help thinking that it is a mistake to allow this fact to influence our views on the pathology of inflammation by adopting permanently the name hsemorrhagic pancreatitis in cases where there has been no bleeding, or no more hsemorrhage than occurs frequently in inflammation of other parenchymatous oi-gans; though it may be useful to retain the name for those cases of pancreatitis associated with well- marked interstitial hsemorrhage, and in which the disruption of the gland may actually be the immediate cause of the inflammation. I read a very interesting paper in the Boston City Hasp. Report for December 1900, by Dr. F. B. Lund, entitled " Acute Hsemorrhagic Pancreatitis and its Surgical Treatment: with a Report of Six Cases," yet on remarking on the second case, the author says, " This case is notable for the absence of pancreatic hsemor- rhage." In the fifth case there was the evacua- tion and drainage of a small abscess of the pancreas, and no evidence of hsemorrhage; and in the sixth case also there was no evidence what- ever of hsemorrhage. The title of the paper is surely a misnomer, yet other authors adopt the same nomenclature in the same indefinite manner. Dr. Flexner produced an inflammation of the pancreas associated with hsemorrhage within forty-eight hours, by injecting the bacillus pyo- cyaneus and the bacillus diphtherise into the pancreatic duct in animals {Contributions to the Science of Medicine, Baltimore, 1900, p. 743). Hildebrand (Ctntralhlatt fiir Chirurgie, 1895, Band xxii. p. 297) suggested that the hsemor- rhage in acute pancreatitis was due to trypsin. Hlava produced hsemorrhagic pancreatitis by in- jecting the bacillus diphtherise into the pancreas. It is well known that a diminution of lime salts in the blood leads to a tendency to hsemor- rhage, and that the hsemorrhage in pancreatic disease is dependent on this cause is highly probable. The only conclusions we can come to, after cai-efully considering the whole subject, are:— That in certain diseases of the pancreas there is a general hsemorrhagic tendency which is much intensified by the presence of jaundice, but that hsemorrhage may occur into the pancreas unassociated with inflammation, or with jaundice, or with a general ha^morrhagic tendency. That both acute and chronic pancreatitis can and do frequently occur without hajmorrhage, but that some cases of pancreatitis are asso- ciated with hsemorrhage and probably caused by it. That inflammation of the pancreas may be