PARALYSIS 312 feltwork of interlacing fibrils when seen in the grey matter, and the central part of such a mass is dense, while a loose meshwork is seen at the periphery where the connective-tissue fibrils radiate in all directions, and insinuate themselves between the nerve elements. In the earlier stages of the morbid process there is marked cell proliferation, but little evidence of fibrillary structure, while, when the disease is more advanced, the glial cells are more separated, and the meshwork of fibres becomes more evident. The oldest areas may appear homogeneous, and, in addition to the elements already described, they may contain large spider cells whose processes form a meshwork the interstices of which are homogeneous in appearance. The blood-vessels remain normal in some cases, while in others their walls are thickened, and the perivascular spaces may be dilated. The vessels are said to be narrowed, and even thrombosed in some cases. The capillaries may be increased in numbers, and they may be engorged, so that white blood cells escape into the surrounding tissues, and even small htemorrhages may occur. Such slight thickenings or adhesions of the pia mater as may occur are clearly secondary to affection of the nerve elements. Pathology. — There is little that is certain and much that is debatable with regard to the pathology of disseminated sclerosis. We are not yet in a position to decide how the disease originates, nor are we able to say whether the morbid process is primarily interstitial, or whether the nerve elements succumb first. The former is the view that is most widely accepted, and some observers indeed regard the disease as a form of chronic myelitis; others, however, hold that a parenchymatous degener- ation of the nerve elements occurs first, and that the hyperplasia of the interstitial tissue is secondary to this, a view that accords well with the growing belief that the morbid changes are induced by the action of a toxic agent. Moreover, it has been suggested that a pro- liferation of interstitial tissue, initiated in this way, may, by its extension, lead to secondary destruction of the nerve elements outside the original starting-point of the morbid process in each affected area. Another hypothesis is that the morbid changes are secondary to affection of the blood-vessels; but it seems more probable that the altered state of the vessels and the morbid changes in the nerve elements are due to a common cause. Yet another suggestion that has been made is that the morbid process is a multiple gliosis, which depends on con- genital influences, but that although essentially endogenous, the impetus to disturbance may be due to some exogenous cause such as an acute disease or a trauma. Symptoms.—Although the disease is essen- tially cerebro-spinal, and there is little to war- rant the distinction of a cerebral as opposed to a spinal form, yet in its clinical manifestations symptoms due to affection of one part of the central nerve axis may dominate the clinical picture ; when this is so it is much more common to find that the symptoms indicate an affection of the spinal cord and not the brain, for, as a rule, when cerebral symptoms are pronounced, there are also indications of affection of the spinal cord. The mode of onset and subsequent course of the illness present great variations, but in the large majority of cases the most constant symp- tom of the earlier stages of the established dis- ease is paraplegia, in which the weakness is associated with spasticity, and it may be also ataxy. Many cases begin in this way, and the only diagnosis warranted by the physical signs at this stage is "primary lateral sclerosis" where spasticity exists alone, and "ataxic para- plegia" when ataxy is added. In either case, however, other phenomena subsequently appear which establish the diagnosis of disseminated sclerosis. In a very large proportion of cases, although some form of paraplegia is commonly present when the patient first comes under observation, there is a history of some antecedent manifesta- tion of the disease, of which there may still be tangible evidence, or which may have entirely disappeared. Indeed, these symptoms are so fleeting that they are commonly regarded as " hysterical," more especially when women are attacked in this way, and when physical or mental shock has immediately preceded the appearance of the symptoms. Loss of sight in one eye, diplopia, and aphonia are some of the evanescent symptoms that have been noticed. So, too, some part may be affected by numb- ness, or some other subjective sensation such as "coldness," "deadness," or "pins and needles." Probably the most common of the evanescent symptoms is, however, loss of motor power in one or more limbs, while in exceptional cases convulsions occur. The great feature of this type of the disease is that these early symptoms may entirely pass away, but they return in the same or different form, and with similar abruptness, at some subsequent period; or, without wholly clearing up, they may lessen and may remain in abeyance for months or years. Even where recovery is supposed to have taken place, close inteiTogation will often elicit that sight has been a little defective at times; that diplopia has occasion- ally been noticed ; that the patient has limped when tired, or that from time to time she has been a little hysterical in manner. These are sure indications that there is but a temporary lull, and that the disease will certainly burst into activity again at some future period, near or remote, when the same symptoms may i-eturn