NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM 80 responsible and at the same time most easily remedied. Malignant Growths of the Nasal Foss^ Malignant growths of the nose are rare, and are almost confined to sarcoma. Formerly it used to be asserted that mucous polypi occasion- ally became epitheliomatous. Thus Erichsen ^ wrote that after the extraction of benign polypi from the nose in children and yoimg adults, sarcomatous, myeloid, or encephaloid tumours often supervene. Nevertheless the rhinologist of to-day is altogether unaware of such trans- formation. 1 have operated myself upon over a thousand cases, and never yet encountered such unfortunate results. Probably the original diagnosis was in fault, and the surgeon was dealing with those tumours which used to be styled fibrous polypi of the nasal pharynx, originating generally between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five, many of them undoubtedly malignant, and some presenting a sort of semi- malignancy. These tumours were fully de- scribed by Dieffenbach in 1834 ; and since then many continental surgeons, e.g. Nelaton, Chas- saignac, Langenbeck, Huguier, etc., have con- tributed to the operative treatment of these growths. Yet so rare is the disease in this country that Paget tells us that he has never had an opportunity of examining these growths in the fresh state. Probably they would now all be classed as sarcomata, possibly with a smaller degree of malignancy than is met with in the same growths when occurring in patients of riper years. Indeed, it is said that, provided the growths can be held in abeyance till the patients have attained the age of five-and-twenty, they show a tendency to undergo spontaneous absorption. The disease is admittedly rare in females, though 1 have seen two instances in girls under thirteen years. The growths appear to originate at the base of the skull, either from the sphenoid or cribriform plate of the ethmoid. Tliey extend into the fosste, into the naso- pharynx, even into the accessory sinuses, and produce that separation of the orbits and flat- tening of the nose which has been likened to a frog's face. The symptoms are those common to all forms of nasal obstruction, with the addi- tion of repeated and severe haemorrhages, and not infrequently a tendency to prolonged and profound sleeping. Sarcoma in older patients may originate in any part of the nasal fossae I have twice been able to localise it in the middle turbinals, once in the superior meatus, and once on the anterior extremity of the inferior turbinal. The prog- nosis of such growths is certainly not quite so grave as similar tumours in other parts of the body. Not to mention the statement already made, and of which I can give no personal ' Science and Art of Surqery. By Erichsen, 7tli ed., 1877. assurance, namely, that after the age of twenty- five there is a spontaneous tendency on the part of the nasopharyngeal fibrous polypi to undergo absorption, I have recorded a case of small- celled sarcoma of such extent that one of our most distinguished surgeons declined to operate, where nevertheless complete eradication was effected by intranasal treatment, and where, to my knowledge, the patient remained free of the disease for three years after the last opera- tion. Consequently, provided such growth is accessible and presents a fairly localised point of origin, its actual size need not deter us from attempting eradication by intranasal operations. But the patient should understand that the surgeon must have an absolutely free hand for as long a time as he may think desirable. Nevertheless, most of these cases will fall into the hands of the general surgeon rather than of the rhinologist; and the operations for the removal of such growth, whether by splitting the hard palate or by the removal of the superior maxilla, fall under the domain of general surgery. 4. Acute Inflammation of the Nose Acute Rhinitis—Coryza ... 80 Etiology 80 Symptoms . . . . .81 Prognosis . . . . .81 Treatment . . . . .82 Fibrinous Rhinitis . . . .83 Acute Suppurative Rhinitis ... 83 Acute Rhinitis Synonyms : Coryza ; Cold in the Head ; Acute Nasal Catarrh Definition.—An acute catarrhal inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes. This common aff"ection may occur under diff'erent circum- stances, e.g. it may constitute a malady in itself, or it may form an early manifestation of a more serious disease, such as congenital syphilis, in- fluenza, measles, whooping-cough, and glanders ; or, again, it may represent the main feature of conditions where neurotic and vasomotor changes are predominant, as in hay fever and paroxysmal sneezing. Finally, symptoms re- sembling " a cold," and known as iodism, may result from the administration of iodide of potassium. Etiology.—Although the rapid onset, course, constitutional symptoms, and evidence of con- tagiousness of acute nasal catarrh render it highly probable that a specific micro-organism is the exciting cause, yet no such materies morbi has hitherto been discovered. There are many well-known predisposing causes, without one or more of which the exciting cause would appear to be unable to precipitate an attack of acute rhinitis. Among the more important of these may be mentioned :