PERIVAGINITIS 439 Perivag'initiS. See Paracolpitis. PerixenitiS.—Inflammation affecting the tissues in which a foreign body (Gr. |eVos, a guest or stranger) happens to be embedded. Perkinism.—A method of treatment by means of metallic " tractors," invented by Dr. E. Perkins of Norwich, Connecticut, U.S.A., who died in 1799; it was used for the cure of rheumatism; " tractoration " or " Perkinean electricity." Perkins' System. — A method of warming buildings by hot water at high pressure ; no boiler is used, the pipes themselves passing through the furnace. See Ventilation AND Warming [Heating by Hot Water). Perleche. See Stomatitis (Aphthous). PerleS. — in pharmacy, perles are small capsules or pills (Fr. perle, a bead) ; in medicine, the term Laennec's perles is given to the rounded gelatinous masses of sputum expectorated early in an attack of bronchial asthma. PerlSUCht. See Tuberculosis {Tubercle Bacillus, Historical). Perma.ng'a.nate. See Manganesium {Potassii Permanganas). Pernicious.—As a medical term perni- cious means very severe, and is almost synony- mous with fatal; e.g. pernicious anaemia, perni- cious icterus, pernicious vomiting of pregnancy, etc. See Anemia, Pernicious ; Hemoglobin- uria [Definition); Leucocytosis [Leucopenia); Malaria (Clinical Manifestations, Pernicious Attacks); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Vascular Disturbances, Hcemor7'hage, Etiology); Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications (Blood Changes, Pernicious Ancemia). Pernio. — A chilblain. See Gangrene (Varieties, Frost-Bite, Minor Degree). PerniOSiS. See Dermatitis Traumatica ET Venenata (Special Eriiptions). Pernoctation.—Insomnia ; more often used in the non-medical sense of an all-night vigil. Pe ro b rac h i a. — Arrested development of the arms. Peroceplialus. — A faceless (aproso- poas) monstrosity, especially as met with in animals (Gurlt); literally, the term simply means " defective head " (Gr. -n-rjpos, maimed). PerOCOrmuS.—A monstrosity consisting in malformation of the body (Gr. Trr^po?, maimed, KopfJio^, the trunk). Perodactyiy. —- Defective development of the fingers or toes. Peromely.—Defective development of a limb (Gr. ttt^pos, maimed, /xeAos, a limb). Peroneal or Peroneo-. — Relating to the fibula or perone ; e.g. the peroneal artery, the peroneal type of myojmthy, pero7ieo-tibial, etc. See Aneurysm (Lower Limb); Ankle-Joint Injuries (Dislocation of Peroneal Tendons); Arteries, Ligature of (Peroneal Artery); Muscles, Diseases of the (Peroneal Type of Muscular Atrophy). Peropus.—Defective development of the feet, constituting a monstrosity. PeroSOmuS.—A type of monstrosity in which the whole body (Gr. a-wfj-a, the body) is deformed (Gurlt). Peroxide of Hydrog^en. See Oxygen. Persecution-Delusions. See In- sanity, Nature and Symptoms (Monomania of Persecution); Paranoia (Progressive Systematised Lnsanity, Delusions of Persecution). Personality. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Personality and Subconscious- ness) ; Memory in Health and Disease (Peri- odic Loss of Memory in Dual Personality). Perspiration. See Children, Clinical Examination of {Integumentary System, Undue Perspiration); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands (S^idamina, Miliaria, Hyperi- drosis, etc.); Thyroid Gland, Medical (Exoph- thalmic Goitre, Perspiration). PertU rbation.—Excessive restlessness, mental or bodily, but more particularly mental (perturbationes animi). See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms. Pertussin. — A proprietary preparation recommended for the treatment of whooping- cough {pertussis), and said to consist of the fluid extract of thyme and syrup. Pertussis. See Whooping-Cough. See also Cough (Clinical Varieties). Peru, Balsam of. See Balsamum Peruvianum. Peruvian Bark. See Quinine. Perversion. — A symptom of insanity consisting in a change for the worse in the characteristics of the patient in such matters as instincts, habits, appetites, and the like. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; etc. Pervig'ilium.—Insomnia; night watch- ing. Pes AnserinuS. — The branched ar- rangement of the facial nerve in the parotid