PAKALYSIS 324 that enter the ganglion from the posterior root, while those of the anterior root in close proximity to the ganglion are normal, with the exception possibl}^ of a few degenerate fibres. In the mixed nerves the motor fibres are normal, while those coming from the posterior root ganglia are atrophied. The peripheral nerves show considerable degeneration, and it would seem that the portions more peripherally situated suffer more than those nearer the cord. In the medulla the degeneration can be traced up to the funiculus gracilis and cuneatus ; the direct cerebellar tract is markedly affected, and the ventral cerebellar tract to a lesser degree. Some degeneration may be seen in the pyramids as high as the medulla. The nucleus gracilis is practically absent, and the nucleus cuneatus very poorly developed. The cerebrum and cerebellum usually appear normal on microscopic examination. It is not uncommon to find some developmental abnor- mality in the cord. Pathology. — That the affection of the posterior columns closely resembles that found in tabes there can be little doubt, but various views have been held as to whether the condition is due to arrest of development or to an early degeneration. All the evidence from the clinical side of the question, however, points to the latter view as that which is most probably correct. It is difficult to believe that an undeveloped cord could perform its functions for many years before showing signs of failure. The cui-ious manner in which several members of a family are affected, however, points to some inherent tendency to failure as soon as any extra strain is thrown upon the nervous system. Although many of the symptoms are ac- counted for by the pathological condition found, yet there are others which cannot be so ex- plained, such as the nystagmus, the defective articulation, and the choreiform movements. Some authors have looked upon the disease as essentially cerebellar, but the pathological evidence is almost entirely against such a view, in that the cerebellum in almost all undoubted cases of the disease has been found to be normal. There seems to be no doubt that the affection frequently follows some acute disease, and this is possibly more often the case in the isolated cases than in those which occur in families ; the acute disease can, however, only be regarded as an exciting cause acting on a nervous system which for some reason is congenitally weak. Diaynoais.—In a marked case in which there is ataxia, nystagmus spinal curvature, and de- formity of the foot, and in which the knee-jerks are absent, there should be no difficulty in diagnosing the disease. In other cases the affection may be confused with disseminated sclerosis, in which disease, however, the inten- tion tremor is much coarser and more jerky, the nystagmus is more marked, the knee-jerks are exaggerated, ankle clonus is present, and ocular palsies, diplopia, and optic atrophy are not uncommon. The age of the patients is different, for disseminated sclerosis commonly begins during the third decade of life. In certain cases in which anomalous symptoms are present the diagnosis is by no means so easy, for it has already been pointed out that exaggerated knee-jerks and ankle clonus may occasionally be present in Friedreich's disease. The diagnosis from a typical case of tabes presents no difficulty, but from the juvenile form of tabes and from the associated disease of tabes and genei-al paralysis occurring in the subjects of congenital syphilis, considerable difficulty is likely to arise. The presence of optic atrophy, irregular-sized pupils, the Argyll- Robertson phenomenon, and bladder trouble, together with the absence of spinal curvature and foot deformity, and nystagmus, would all be in favour of the diagnosis of juvenile tabes. From a cerebellar tumour the slow and gradual onset, the absence of headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis, together with the curious vari- ability in the knee-jerks commonly seen in cases of cerebellar tumour, should render the differ- ential diagnosis simple. Hereditary cerebellar ataxia (Marie's disease) is later in its onset (after the age of twenty), the mental affection is more marked, there is optic atrophy, the knee-jerks are active, and the ataxia is greater. To chorea of a chronic type the disease only bears a superficial resemblance, and, apart from the character of the movements and the ataxia, the curvatui-e of the spine, the deformity of the foot, and the presence of nystagmus are usually sufficient to form a diagnosis. Progiiosis. — The prognosis is unfavourable, although the disease does not necessarily ad- vance, yet it leaves the patient in an enfeebled condition, so that he readily falls a victim to some intercurrent affection. Treatment. — Drugs have no effect either to arrest or to cure the disease. Massage and electricity may be of some service. The patient should be encouraged to take moderate exercise, and should perform various co-ordinate move- ments both with the arms and legs. Functional Pakalysis Inasmuch as our knowledge of the intimate nature of functional disease is incomplete, the definition of functional "paralysis" is difiicult and unsatisfactory, and the conditions which are to be included under this term are separated from conditions not so included by a somewhat arbitrary line. " Functional paralysis " is a term applied to a natural group of cases char-