AND PELVIC FLOOR 381 PELVIS—PERINEUM but are gradually covered with epithelium by a process of extension from their margins. There is some subsequent contraction of the cicatricial surfaces; this, however, does not by any means restore the lumen of the vaginal orifice to its original size. It is necessary to consider both complete tears of the perineum—• those which divide the sphincter ani, and those which leave that muscle intact while more or less dividing the other structures which form the perineal body. The anatomical result of a complete tear of the perineum is to unite the lower parts of the vagina and the rectum into a single tube, which corresponds with the cloaca of some lower animals. The traumatic " cloaca " is lined by rectal mucosa posteriorly, and by vaginal mucosa anteriorly, while at each side a tri- angular area, with its apex pointing upward, is lined by the scar tissue covering the raw sur- faces produced by the tear. Uniting the apices of these scar areas, the lower margin of the untorn portion of the recto-vaginal septum extends across the cavity, a narrow bridge of scar tissue dividing the rectal from the vaginal mucosa. The contraction of the sphincter ani draws apart its torn ends, so that the position of these is marked by a depression on each side within the triangular area of scar tissue. The most important physiological result of such a tear is inability on the part of the patient to retain fluid fasces. Whenever the motions are unformed they escape, in spite of all voluntary efforts at retention, through the cloacal aperture. This causes the patient to favour a habit of constipation, which impairs her general health and makes her life miserable. Other results of perineal tears are due to the impairment of the sacral segment of the pelvic floor as a supporting structure for the pubic segment. Though most marked in complete tears these results are shared by inj uries, which, though they do not involve the sphincter, yet divide more or less completely the muscular and connective tissues forming the perineal body, or lower margin of the sacral segment. When combined with other causes of prolapsus uteri, cystocele, and rectocele, perineal tears assist in the production of these conditions. They are present in most cases in which these lesions exist; but they are also to be found in many women who have no other sign or symptom of defect in the pelvic floor, and alone they are quite insufficient to produce such. All tears which involve more than skin and mucous membrane should, however, be repaired. For though in young women there may be no appearance of secondary results, yet as life advances, and other factors come into play, serious changes may occur, which a simple and timely perineal repair would have prevented completely. Operations for the repair of perineal tears. which have not been sutured immediately after labour, should be deferred until the torn surfaces are completely healed and the cica- trices have become firm and free from excessive vascularity. This, as a rule, requires from two to three months. Time should also be allowed in order for the patient to be up and about long enough to secure a good state of general health. This is necessary in order that healing of the operation wound may be favoured, and that the patient may well bear confinement to bed during the period of union. The operation should be done soon after the end of a menstrual period (if menstruation has returned), in order to allow as much time as possible for healing before the menstrual discharge reappears. The patient should be kept on light plain food for a week before operation, and should take aperients in suflicient quantity to produce at least one loose stool daily. A small dose of cascara sagrada (say n\_x) thrice daily with a mild saline on waking each morning is generally efficacious. An enema should be given two or three hours before operation, and should be re- peated until the rectum is perfectly empty and clean. If there is any leucorrhoeal discharge, vaginal douching with very mild astringents and antiseptics should be practised for a few days previously. The patient, when antesthetised, should be placed upon a table in the lithotomy posture, a good light being secured. The legs should be supported by a Clover's crutch unless ample assistance is available. The object of the operation is to restore union between those structures which were in continuity before the laceration occurred, but which have become covered with a layer of cicatricial epidermis. If the tear is incomplete and the anvis with its sphincter is intact, only one orifice, the vaginal, has to be restored to its ordinary dimensions. But it is necessary also to reconstruct the triangular mass of tissue known as the perineal body, and to do this it is necessary to unite between the vagina and the rectum lateral areas of tissue about IJ inches wide at the skin surface, triangular in shape, their apices extend- ing fully 1| inches upward in the recto-vaginal septum. If the tear extends into the rectum it is further necessary to restore the integrity of the anal orifice, and above all, to secure accurate coaptation and sound union between the divided ends of the sphincter ani. There are numerous ways of attaining the above objects, and it should be mentioned that it used to be usual and is still preferred by some operators, to raw the surfaces to be united by paring off and cutting away the scar tissue. We describe, however, only one way of dealing with perineal tears, a type of those operations in which no tissue is removed. The operations for incomplete and for complete lacerations demand separate description.