406 PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF the heart due to myocarditis favour the for- mation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium during convalescence, but the eventual replacement of damaged muscle fibres by cicatricial fibrous tissue leaves the heart permanently weaker. Diagnosis. — Till the characteristic friction rub is heard, a diagnosis of pericarditis cannot be made with any degree of certainty. There are, however, as a rule, in acute cases premoni- tory symptoms, such as acceleration of pulse, excited action of the heart, rise of temperature, dyspnoea, and perhaps prtecordial pain or oppres- sion, which enable us to anticipate the appear- ance of the pericardial friction rub. These symptoms may, at first sight, seem to be merely exacerbations of those already present from rheumatism, scarlet fever, or pneumonia, with which pericarditis may be associated ; but if we bear in mind the possibility of cardiac complica- tions and examine the heart daily, we are not likely to mistake their significance or to miss the first definite signs of pericarditis. It is otherwise with the subacute attacks of pericarditis common in children, which are often so insidious in their onset that not only may there be no premonitory symptoms, but the pericardial rub may have been present some days, and much damage to the heart have resulted before the child is seen to be ill and medical advice sought. In Bright's disease and tuberculosis also, the onset of pericarditis may be very insidious. Attention is drawn to this later on where the subject is more fully discussed. Differential Diagnosis.—The pericardial fric- tion rub is so characteristic that it is seldom likely to be mistaken for other sounds. Diffi- culty may, however, arise, when from friction between the parietal layer of pericardium and the adjoining pleura in a case of pleurisy, the rhythm is of a to-and-fro character corresponding to the beats of the heart. A pleuro-pericardial rub arising from this cause is usually intensified in deep expiration, and rendered less distinct in deep inspiration, and is modified by the respira- tory movements. It is, as a rule, only heard at the left border of the heart, and not over the sternum or to the right of it. Moreover, as the pleurisy will seldom be confined to the neigh- bourhood of the heart, a respiratory friction rub will he heard in the adjoining area in the axilla. In obscure cases it will be necessary to bear in mind the possibility of the somewhat rare affection, acute mediastinitis, of which an account is given, vol. vi. p. 231. Endocardial murmurs differ so completely in their character from pericardial friction sounds that confusion will seldom arise. They have, as a rule, a focus of intensity, are conducted in certain directions, and have a definite relation to the first or second sounds of the heart, which they may partially or entirely replace. They are not appreciably modified by pressure with the stethoscope, and though they may some- times be accompanied by a thrill, and be rough and vibratory, they never assume the superficial scratching character of the pericardial friction rub. Effusion.—The differential diagnosis between eff"usion and cardiac dilatation has already been discussed. Difficulty in diagnosis between effu- sion and aneurysm or mediastinal growth is scarcely likely to arise if the history of the case is known. Prognosis.—Pericarditis is always a disease of considerable gravity. In acute attacks associ- ated with rheumatism or pneumonia death may take place within a few days, but this is not of common occurrence. In the majority of cases the immediate prognosis, so far as life is con- cerned, is favourable, but the liability to re- peated attacks, the damage done to the heart by myocarditis, and the formation of adhesions between the heart and pericardium, render the ultimate chances of long life unfavourable in a large proportion of rheumatic cases. The prog- nosis will to a great extent depend on the degree in which the myocardium is affected by the inflammatory process. If the attack of pericarditis be short, though severe, and the heart does not become greatly dilated, the changes in the muscle will probably be slight, and the heart may rapidly recover afterwards. If the inflammation is protracted, or repeated attacks occur in close succession, the myocardium will seldom escape serious damage; there will be great dilatation of the heart, from which it is unable to recover for some considerable time, and the pericardium not infrequently becomes adherent to the dilated heart, rendering its complete recovery impossible. Moreover, as in the process of repair, fibrous tissue takes the place of the damaged muscle, the contractile power of the heart is permanently weakened. Children and young adults on whom rheu- matism has set its mark in the shape of the characteristic " nodules" are especially liable to repeated and prolonged attacks of carditis or inflammation of pericardium, myocardium, and endocardium. They seldom grow up to maturity, or if they do, it is with hearts so crippled that long life is scarcely possible. Treatment.—Treatment should be both local and constitutional. Of local applications the ice-bags applied over the pericardial area are the most useful, as they relieve pain and seem to have a steadying effect on an excited heart; they are usually well borne and liked by the patient. Leeches are advocated by some at the onset of an acute attack, but it is doubtful if they are of any real service, and they may upset the patient, and thereby do more harm than good. Blisters are useful in the later stages of a prolonged attack or in chronic pericarditis.