NOSE—ACUTE INFLAMMATION 82 sinuses, but, as a rule, the inflammation subsides with the general subsidence of the catarrhal process. Treatment.—This may be considered under the headings of {a) Prophylaxis, (6) General and Local Treatment. (a) Prophylaxis. — A person subject to acute nasal catarrh can do much by care to render the attacks less frequent by the avoidance, or remedying of those predisposing causes to which allusion has already been made. A cold bath in the morning, followed by the use of a rough towel, is an excellent method of rendering the body less sensitive to changes of temperature. In children, old people, and those with feeble circulation, and in others where a cold bath is followed by white fingers and a sense of chilliness or headache, the water should be used lukewarm, and followed by a momentary cold douche. Nothing renders a person more sus- ceptible to " cold " than undue wrapping up or " coddling " of the body. Under such circum- stances perspiration is easily produced, and the liability to catching cold increased. Some form of wool should be worn next the skin, a thinner or more open texture in summer than in winter. Neckwraps are rarely necessary. Bed-clothes should be light and warm, and even in winter counterpanes are unnecessary. With regard to the daily routine of life, there is little doubt that overfed, plethoric, sedentary individuals are more liable to colds than spare and active people who live plainly and spend a considerable portion of their time in the open air. (6) General Treatment.—When a cold com- mences, active treatment must be instituted at once if it is to be of any avail. Most people agree that diaphoresis is advantageous, and, furthermore, that opium or one of its active principles is the best means of promoting that end. The drug should be administered in the early stage of a cold before free discharge occurs, and, if possible, it should be given on a nearly empty stomach. Ten grains of Dover's powder at night, followed by a cup of hot tea or hot lemonade, spirits of nitre, or hot whisky and water, is an old-fashioned and excellent remedy. Others prefer a pill of sulphate of morphia, gr. \, during the early evening, and a second on going to bed, followed by a hot drink. The next morning 5 grains of quinine may be taken with advantage. When the discharge is free the opium may be combined with diuretics, e.g. tr. opii T\xv., spir. eetheris nitrosi liq- ammon. acetat. oiij., aq. camphorfe ad 5j. To be taken at bed- time in an equal quantity of warm water. The patient should keep indoors and in a warm room, but well ventilated. Should the opiate cause headache, furred tongue, or nausea, a saline aperient will be beneficial. When catarrhal symptoms are accompanied by severe headache and general muscular pains, the salicylate of soda may be conveniently sub- stituted for the opium in the above presci'iption, and of the mixture one ounce should be taken every four hours until the pain is relieved. In children and young people generally aconite has been highly recommended. It may be prescribed in pilules containing gr. of aconitine, one of which may be taken every two hours for three doses ; or the tincture of aconite, one minim every half-hour for three or four doses, may be substituted for the alkaloid. As a general rule this drug acts quickly and well if it is going to act at all, and it should only be given in the early stage of febrile affections (Yeo). From personal experience the writer can testify to the great diminution of the nasal discharge brought about by abstention from liquids. An occasional tea-spoonful of lemon water is quite sufficient to assuage thirst for the twelve hours or so during which the rhinorrhoea is profuse. The hypodermic injection of to gr. of atropine sulphate has been recommended, but hypodermic medication is open to objection on so many grounds that the writer cannot advise it for so universal a disease as that under discussion. Camphor pilules, or a few drops of spirits of camphor on a lump of sugar, are popular remedies for the early stages of a cold, but experience as to the efficacy of the drug varies very much in different cases. Local Treatment. — The very number of remedies recommended for the local treatment of a " cold " is sufficient guarantee that no one of them is universally applicable. Eucalyptus oil inhaled from a handkerchief is highly praised by some for its abortive effect upon a commen- cing cold, while others are equally enthusiastic of the virtues possessed by certain "anti- catarrhal smelling salts," e.g. ac. carbol. gr. 30, ammon. carb. ij., pulv. carbo. lejn. §j., ol. lavand. lT(_xx., tr. benzoin, co. fl. 3ss. M. Medi- cated steam inhalations often give relief to the nasal discomfort, and of these camphor is one of the best. One drachm of the " spirits of camphor" is added to a pint of boiling water contained in an inhaler or narrow-necked jug, and the vapour inhaled through the nostrils for periods of five to ten minutes twice an hour. Menthol has been similarly recommended; some ten to fifteen drops of a 10 per cent alcoholic solution of menthol are added to a pint of nearly boiling water, and used as above. A nebulised spray of menthol dissolved in liquid paraffin (x.-xv. grs. ad gj.) and used from an atomiser has been highly recommended to relieve the obstruction of the early stages of nasal catarrh, but my own experience is that although temporary freedom of nasal respiration