316 PARALYSIS and all four limbs show signs of spasticity and ataxy. The patients are usually older than those most commonly affected by disseminated sclerosis ; functional manifestations are absent; there is not, as a rule, any tendency to remis- sion of symptoms, although slight nystagmoid jerkings may occur; pronounced nystagmus is never seen, and the sphincters rarely suffer so early as in disseminated sclerosis, although they become completely paralysed sooner. Anaemia is frequently a prominent symptom, as is irregular pyrexia. Hereditary Ataxy.—The cases of disseminated sclerosis that have been described in children have to be distinguished from Friedreich's ataxy. The occurrence of the disease in more than one member of the family, absence of the knee-jerks, and the presence of lateral curvature of the spine and pes cavus serve to distinguish these cases from disseminated sclerosis. It may be more difficult to discriminate between cere- bellar heredo-ataxy and disseminated sclerosis, in that this form of ataxy does not become manifest until between the ages of twenty and thirty. The affection of more than one member of a family also serves as an aid in the diagnosis of these cases. Tabes.—When motor weakness is pronounced and ataxy slight, a little care may be needed to distinguish a case of tabes. Failure of the pupil to respond to light is an important point in diagnosis, as is absence of the knee-jerks, in that these defects are so rare in disseminated sclerosis. The patients are usually older, there is commonly a history of lightning pains, there is more frequently difficulty in passing water rather than loss of control over the sphincter of the bladder, and blunting sensibility is more pronounced and persistent. General -paralysis of the insane is distinguished by the fact that the patients are, as a rule, older. Moreover, there is commonly an antecedent history of syphilis; dementia is more pronounced, and is often preceded by mental exaltation; whereas dementia only occurs late in the course of disseminated sclerosis, and, beyond a manner suggesting a state of well-being that is not in keeping with the patient's physical condition, there is no exaltation. Cerebrospinal syphilis may give rise to mani- festations that resemble those produced by disseminated sclerosis; but nystagmus, inten- tion tremor, and scanning speech are wanting, while sensory symptoms, including those which suggest that the meninges are involved, are much more prominent, and paralysis of cranial nerves, hemiplegia, and dementia are all more common. In some cases, however, the doubt may be only dispelled by the results of anti- syphilitic treatment. Pseudosclerosis.—Cases of this kind have not been met with frecjuently enough to make them a serious obstacle in the diagnosis of dissemi- nated sclerosis. The clinical pictures of the two affections are, however, closely similar; but no structural lesions have been found in cases of pseudo-sclerosis adequate to explain the clinical symptoms (see p. 317). Cer-ebral Diplegia.—Jerky inco-ordination of the limbs, nystagmus, and spinal defect may make some of these cases resemble disseminated sclerosis ; but the fact that symptoms date from birth, or from early childhood, serve to suggest their real nature, and the courses of the two diseases are so different that it is rarely neces- sary to extend the observations over any great length of time before coming to a conclusion. Intracranial Tumours. — In cases in which the tumour is situated in the cerebellum, crus, or pons, the inco-ordination of movement that results may be mistaken for that produced by disseminated sclerosis, while a patch of sclerosis in the cerebellum or in one of its peduncles may give rise to symptoms simulating tumour in these situations. Pressure signs, such as headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis, are rarely wanting in cases of tumour, whereas such symp- toms are not prominent in disseminated sclerosis; and although optic neuritis is said to occur, in some cases, a condition of choked disc is never seen. Paralysis Agitans.—Patients affected by this disease are usually much older; the tremor is constant during repose, and may cease on volun- tary movement—it is always regular, even if extensive in range. The high-pitched piping voice, the mask-like face, and the fixed attitude all combine to make the diagnosis simple. Toxic tremors only bear a superficial resem- blance to the tremor of disseminated sclerosis, and, in addition to the fact that they are present during repose, the other symptoms of dissemi- nated sclerosis are wanting. It is conceivable that cases of chronic alcoholism with much tremor and nystagmoid twitchings of the eye- balls may give rise to the suspicion of dissemi- nated sclerosis ; but the tremor is fine and rapid, and affects the tongue as well as the hands; it is lessened by the administration of stimulants and aggravated when they are withheld. The subjects of mercurial tremor are usually in an advanced stage of cachexia which is unmistakable. Apojdexy.—The apoplectiform attacks that occur in disseminated sclerosis are distinguished from those of true apoplexy by the absence of premonitory symptoms and of initial fall of temperature. Moreover, their effects are always transitory, and they are not followed by signs of descending degeneration. Prognosis.—A fatal issue is inevitable; but nothing is more difficult than to foretell, with any decree of accuracy, the probable duration of life. The long periods during which the disease may appear to be stationary, or when actual improvement may occur, are largely re- sponsible for this uncertainty in prognosis.