PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 488 TURK; Tendon-Jerks ; Thymus Gland ; Thy- roid Gland ; Tonsils ; Uric Acid ; Urine ; Vagus Nerve ; Vision, Field of ; etc. Section f;^PR0T0PLASM The first step in the study of physiology must be to acquire as clear and definite a conception as possible of the nature of protoplasmic activity in its most simple and uncomplicated form, for in this way an idea of the essential and non- essential characteristics of life may best be gained. I. Structure.—Protoplasm is a semi-fluid trans- parent viscous substance. It usually occurs in small individual particles—cells—more or less associated, but it may occur as larger confluent masses—plasmodia. Sometimes protoplasm seems perfectly homo- geneous, but generally a reticulated appearance can be made out even in the living condition (Fig. 1), and from this it has been concluded b e Fia. 1.—a, Foam structure of a mixture of olive oil and cane sugar ; b, reticulated structure of protoplasm; c, reticulated structure of protoplasm in the cell of an earth-worm. (After Biitschli.) that there is a more solid part arranged like the fibres of a sponge, or like the films of a mass of soap-bubbles, with a more fluid inter- stitial part. In all protoplasm, therefore, there seems to be a certain amount of organisation, and in certain cells this organisation becomes very marked indeed. II. Phydology.—A knowledge of the essen- tials of physiology of protoplasm may be gained by studying the vital manifestations of one of the simplest of living things, the yeast plant (Saccharomyces Cerevisse). This plant consists of very minute oval or spherical bodies frequently connected to form chains, each composed of a harder outer cover- ing or capsule and of a softer inner substance which has all the characters of protoplasm. Its physiology may be studied by placing a few torulae in a solution, containing glucose, CgH^gOg, and urea, CONjH^, with traces of phosphate of soda, Na^HPO^, and sulphate of potash, KgSO^. If the vessel be kept all night in a warm place the clear solution will in the morning be seen to be turbid. An examination of a drop of the fluid shows that the turbidity is due to the presence of myriads of torulse. In a few hours the few torulee placed in the fluid have increased many hundred-fold. The whole mass of yeast has grown in amount by the growth and multiplication of the individual units. This power of growth and reproduction under suitable conditions is the essential characteristic of living matter. What are the conditions necessary for the manifestation of these phenomena of life? 1. If the yeast be mixed with the solid con- stituents of the solution in a dry state no growth or reproduction occurs. Water is essential. 2. If the yeast, mixed with the solution, be kept at the freezing point no growth takes place, but this proceeds actively at about 36° C. A certain temperature is necessary for the vitality of protoplasm. In the absence of these condi- tions, protoplasm is only potentially alive, and in this state it may remain for long periods without undergoing any change, as in the seeds of plants and in dried bacteria. The conditions essential for the manifestations of life being present, in order that the growth of the yeast may take place, there must be:— (a) A supply of material from which it can be formed. {b) A supply of energy to bring about the construction. (a) The chemical elements in protoplasm are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus. These elements are contained in the ingredients of the solution used. If yeast be sown in distilled water, even if it be kept at a temperature of 36° C. it does not grow. (/;) The energy is got by the breaking down of the sugar, G^^^l■^^^OQ, into alcohol, CgHgO, and carbon dioxide, CO2. Such a breaking down of a complex into simpler molecules liberates energy, as is well seen when nitro-glycerine explodes, breaking into carbon dioxide, water, oxygen, and nitrogen— 2C3H5(N03)3 = 6CO2 + 5H2O + 0 -t- 6N. The energy can be used for the performance of work of any kind, as, for example, the work of building up a fresh quantity of the yeast plant out of the substances contained in the solution. The history of the yeast plant shows that protoplasm, tvhen placed in suitable co7idi- tions, lias the p>ower of breaking down certain complex substances, and of ^otilising the energy liberated for building itself up). It is this power which has enabled living matter to exist and to extend over the earth. How does protoplasm liberate the potential energy of such siibstances ? The answer to this question has been given by the demonstration by Buchner that the ex- pressed juice of the yeast torulse acts on the sugar in the same way as the living yeast. The yeast therefore manufactures something