141 OBESITY ascertain the average daily output of urea, as any deficiency in this respect in relation to the food taken would counter-indicate a highly nitrogenous dietary. If, as the result of our examination, we find we have to do with a vigorous person whose organs are sound, we may apply a much more rigid dietary than to one whose health has broken down, and whose organs are more or less diseased. If we have to do with a case of the plethoric form we shall have to reduce the quantity of food taken daily. As there is scarcely any form of food from which fat cannot be formed, a reduction in the total quantity is of the first importance. The quantity of food absohitely necessary to maintain the nutrition of the body varies greatly in diff'erent individuals, and depends chiefly on body weight, age, and activity. It has been calculated that a healthy adult requires daily from 100 to 130 grammes of proteids, 450 to 550 grammes of carbohydrates, and 40 to 80 grammes of fat; to these must be added 30 grammes of salts and 2800 grammes of water. These figures may be much reduced if the patient is kept at rest in bed, at any rate for a short period. We recently had to keep a stout, active patient suffering from chronic gastric ulcer on a limited milk diet while resting in bed for some time. For the first week he only had 36 oz. of milk daily—3 oz. every two hours; he was perfectly satisfied and comfortable, and did not wish for more. A little more food (an egg or its equivalent) was then added. At the end of a fortnight he had lost nearly two stone in weight, and at the end of three weeks he was able to take a fair amount of exercise, feel- ing lighter and stronger than he had done for some time. With a careful diet—limited, but sufficient—this loss of weight has been main- tained. Absolute rest in bed is, however, need- ful whenever a very restricted diet of this kind is applied. But we see no reason why this very restricted diet should not be more fre- quently applied to the reduction of body weight in suitable cases, and when the cordial co-opera- tion of the patient can be relied upon. Prof. Debove, last year, presented to the Academic de medecine of Paris a man fifty-five years of age, who weighed on admission to hospital 234 lbs., and after a year's treatment weighed only 180 lbs., the remedy employed being a very severely restricted milk diet. There was some hereditary predisposition to the malady. He had been growing fat since the age of twenty-five. He was of sedentary habits and given to alcoholic indulgence. He suffered also from gravel and gout, and had become impotent. In considering the means available for re- ducing his obesity, Debove discarded prepara- tions of the thyroid gland, the protracted use of which he considered dangerous, and the beneficial results only temporary. Active exer- cise could not be prescribed, as the man could not leave his bed. He chose, therefore, the only method he thought practicable, viz., by giving the patient an insufficient amount of nourishment to oblige him to consume his own fat. He was put on an exclusive milk diet, the quantity of milk being severely limited. Dur- ing the first month he had two quarts of milk a day, during the second month one and a half quarts, and during the third month one quart only. He lost 27 lbs. the first two months, and 4 lbs. the third month. During the four follow- ing months the patient took less than a quart of milk a day, and his weight finally fell to 180 lbs. He was at the time of the report in perfect health. This is a remarkable and most instructive instance of the small amount of food upon which existence can be maintained and excess of weight thereby reduced without injury to health, provided the patient be kept at rest in bed. Weir-Mitchell has also warmly advocated a restricted milk diet for the reduction of obesity. It will be found, in examining the various dietetic methods that have been advocated for the treatment of obesity, that they all aim at reducing the average quantity of food taken. The carbohydrates are especially attacked in all, and they are largely reduced. There would seem to be a far greater tendency to excess in this class of food than in the other classes. This is probably due, in some measure, to the great convenience and cheapness of such food as, e.f/., bread and butter, biscuit, sweet cakes, etc.; such foods are always at hand, they re- quire no preparation, and they are agreeable to the palate. In some of these methods an excess of pro- teids is prescribed; this excess has been con- sidered to favour the reduction of obesity by promoting the oxidation and combustion of the excess of deposited fat. In nearly all these methods a strict limitation of the amount of liquid taken is insisted on, and one of the earliest systematic methods advocated for the cure of obesity was to pre- scribe as dry a diet as possible. By prohibiting all drink during meals no doubt the desire to take a large quantity of food is diminished. The work of mastication is made slower, and masti- cation and insalivation must be more complete or there would be difficulty in deglutition. In the case of large eaters with vigorous digestion, this method of eating dry is no doubt an efficacious one, but in certain other cases a full supply of water is needed, and especially in gouty cases, to promote complete digestion and to favour the elimination of waste products.