HYGIENE 131 NURSERY the night after its last meal. All through early childhood a midday rest is a necessity for the muscles and nervous mechanism of the child's body. The dyspeptic infant is usually a bad sleeper, and often wears out the patience of its nurse and mother by its wakeful ways. In early rickets this is especially so; the infant sweats profusely, apparently suffers from pains and aches, and its nervous system is in an irritable condition. The healthy, phlegmatic, good- natured baby is a good sleeper, it is not easily aroused by noises, and gives little trouble to its nurse or parents. The excitable, neurotic infant, which is perhaps made worse by injudicious excitements allowed by its parents, is a bad sleeper: it will not go to sleep in the daytime, it wakes up with the slightest disturbance, at night it will perhaps lie awake for hours. When a tooth is being cut and the gums are sore and swollen, restless nights are common, as every mother knows by experience. Careful feeding, good training, and avoidance of excitement of all sorts and kinds, are the best prescriptions for wakeful babies. While bromides, chloral, phenacetin, etc., are useful and perhaps neces- sary, when given under medical direction, for some definite trouble, as tooth-cutting, they are baneful for habitual use, and in the hands of a reckless nurse are highly dangerous—the pitcher goes perhaps once too often to the fountain ! Weighing-Charts.—Every nursery should be provided with a weighing-machine, and the in- fant's weight may be conveniently recorded on a "weight-chart." Weighing-machines which necessitate slinging up the infant to a hook are inconvenient to use, on account of the struggles of the infant, and are dangerous in the hands of a careless nurse. A cradle fitted over a spring balance with a dial (Hawksley's), the pointer of which indicates 28 lbs. by 2 ounces, or the "Victoria combination scales," which weigh to 61 lbs. by half ounces, make excellent weighing- machines for the nursery. Weighing once a week is often enough during health ; care must be taken to weigh at the same time of day each week in order to get average results. An error is easily introduced if care is not taken to weigh exactly under the same conditions from week to week. Charts can be obtained (Hawksley's), resembling temperature charts, with spaces for the weights to be marked in each week, and there is a dotted line indicating the average weight. It is the weight rather than the age which must be the guide to the amount and strength of the food given to the infant; but account will also have to be taken of the age and as to whether the infant is abnormally fat {see " Children, Development and Clinical Examination of "). Milk-Supply.—The greatest care must be exercised in securing milk for the nursery which is of good quality and purity. It is astonishing how little trouble is often taken by the heads of a household to satisfy themselves in this matter. They accept without demur the fiction of a " special cow kept for infants " and the various statements of the dealer, backed up, as they usually are, by the pious opinion of the cook. The city dweller, unfortunately, has to take his milk on trust, and has no means of ascertaining if the milk comes from healthy cows free from tuberculosis or other disease ; that they are properly fed and cared for, and that the milk is not fouled in any way during the milking process or in transit. Most of the milk-supply of a city comes from a distance, as, for instance, some of Cheshire and Derbyshire milk goes to supply London. Whenever it is possible the distance for milk to travel should not be great, so that the morn- ing's milking may be delivered before breakfast of the same day, and the afternoon's milking in the evening for the night's consumption. It is best to have the milk-supply for the household put up at the dairy in clean sterilised quart or pint bottles with " lightning" stoppers, and in this way delivered at the house. This saves the risk of contamination by the dust of the street and by dirty vessels in the household. If the milk is dirty or coloured it is more readily de- tected when in a glass bottle than in an opaque vessel. The foddering of the cows is a matter of much importance when the milk is to be supplied to infants. The food of the cows should largely consist of dry fodder, such as hay, corn, meal, with a moderate proportion of fresh food, such as clover and grass in the summer and beets or mangels in the winter. An exclusive diet of green food does not produce the best milk for infants; the latter often suffer from dyspepsia when the cows are first turned out in the spring. Oilcake and turnips should only be used in small quantities, if at all, and refuse from breweries should be absolutely forbidden. The risks of the milk being contaminated are not ended when it leaves the dealer : the best of milks will go wrong if care is not taken in storing the milk in the household. Almost any vessel is thought good enough by the cook to receive the morning's or evening's milk. Beer jugs, pie dishes, pudding basins are pei-haps requisitioned for the purpose, while the vessels are kept in a hot kitchen or nursery or in the foul air of a cellar. Dust is allowed to settle in the milk, and with the dust come numerous micro-organ- isms. The milk, as was said above, should preferably be delivered in bottles, and the bottles should be stored in a cool place or in an ice-chest. It is a good plan directly the milk arrives in the household—especially during warm weather —to separate the infant's milk from the house- hold's, and at once Pasteurise or sterilise the former. This may be done in one of Hawksley's