284 PARALYSIS tained, if the child has reached a suitable age, exercises in front of a mirror are often useful, for he is able to see for himself errors of position and movement, and strives to correct them. Where treatment has been neglected and con- tractures have arisen, excellent results are generally obtained by tenotomy, followed shortly by passive movements, and subsequently by exercises. From the way in which the defor- mities arise, it is at once clear that the prolonged use of rigid appliances for their correction is useless. The treatment, in all but the slightest cases, must be prolonged over years, often many years, and its application requires the greatest patience and devotion; but except in those cases where mental impairment remains severe, the ultimate result is excellent. Too often, however, from neglect or from inability to procure the necessary means of treatment, the patient with infantile hemiplegia remains hopelessly crippled. After adult life is reached little further improvement can be expected. Infantile Spastic Paraplegia of Spinal Origin.—Spastic paraplegia in children, due to a lesion of the spinal cord, is most frequently due to compression of the cord as the result of spinal caries. Apart from this cause the con- dition is somewhat rare. It is occasionally produced by the pressure of neoplasms arising in the bony structures of the vertebral column or in the meninges, and it sometimes results from spina bifida. Injuries to the spinal column during birth give rise to paraplegia, and to this group of cases the term " obstetrical paralysis " has been given. Lastly, it may be a result of acute myelitis. The symptomatology does not differ from that of spastic paraplegia in adults, except that distortion and deformities of the limbs and trunk are more marked, since the spasm acts during the period of most active growth and upon less resistant structures. Diagnosis.—The distinction of spastic para- plegia of spinal origin from the paraplegic form of cerebral diplegia is most important and often somewhat difficult. The history of the appear- ance of the symptoms, their non-progressive character, the preponderance of rigidity over loss of power and the presence of mental impair- ment, recurring convulsions, and strabismus are the signs by which a cerebral lesion should be recognised. The pi-esence of local spinal symp- toms, pain, tenderness, deformity, or of the signs of spina bifida ; the presence of antesthesia and sphincter trouble, and a progressive character of the symptoms, should distinguish paraplegia of spinal origin. In paraplegia due to spi7ial caries the distinctive signs of the latter con- dition may be almost completely absent when the disease affects the upper dorsal spine, for as this is the least mobile part of the vertebral column, rigidity in this situation is not easily detectable. Deformity may be absent, and the pain caused by movement and jarring of the spine so slight as to seem negligible. A further difficulty in diagnosis arises as the symptoms may for a long time be confined to motor structures and complete spastic paraplegia, without a trace of antesthesia or of sphincter trouble, may persist for weeks without the latter symptoms becoming manifest. In these cases, however, careful observation over a considerable length of time will generally reveal the nature of a condition present. Spinal tumours for the most part present little difficulty in diagnosis. The majority of them being malignant and of rapid growth, are characterised by severe pains, radiating along the distribution of the nerve roots of the involved area, with a subsequent rapid and progressive onset of spastic paraplegia, later anaesthesia, and at last, when the pressure is sufficient to entirely abrogate the physiological conductivity of the cord, the paraplegia becomes a flaccid one. Such tumours are most frequently sarco- mata, rarely myxomata or lipomata. In the so-called "obstetrical paralysis" there is almost always the history of breech delivery, with difficulty in the passage of the shoulders or the after-coming head, to overcome which vigorous traction upon the trunk has been used. This may produce either fractured dislocation of the cervical or upper thoracic vertebrse, or subluxation with haemorrhage into or around the spinal cord. Frequently the diagnosis is aided by the presence of atrophic palsy, limited to the distribution of some nerve roots of the brachial plexus on one or both sides, the anterior roots being injured by the traction upon the vertebral column. In such injuries the lesion of the spinal cord is often complete, so that a complete flaccid paralysis results. Deformity of the vertebral column is not often present, for the fractures may become reduced after the damage to the spinal cord has occurred. If the spinal cord be injured above the fourth cervical segment, death ensues almost instantaneously from paralysis of the respiratory muscles. The diagnosis of paraplegia, due to spina bifida, only presents difficulty when the spina bifida is occult. The weakness of the lower ex- tremities here dates from the time when walking is learnt, and is as a rule slight. Peculiar deformities of the feet and trophic changes may be met with. A careful examination of the vertebral column, which will reveal absence of the spines and perhaps of the laminae at some spot, a tuft of hair or najvus in the mid-line of the lumbar region, may at once suggest the diagnosis. Acute myelitis is a rare condition in children, and occurs usually from the age of six years to puberty. Congenital syphilis may be present. The onset and clinical aspect resemble the same disease in adults, and the diagnosis presents no difficulty.