243 PANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY found in the urine during the first twenty-four hours, on the following day about 4 to 6 per cent, and only on the third day does the ex- cretion attain a maximum of about 8 to 10 per cent. If at this stage no nourishment be given, the quantity of sugar excreted gradually sinks; yet, even after the dog has remained without food for seven days, sugar is still to be found in the urine. The quantity of sugar excreted can necessarily only be a measure of the severity of the diabetes if carbohydrates be excluded from the diet, or if the quantity of carbohydrates present in the food and faeces be also estimated. If the animal be kept in a state of hunger or on a purely proteid diet, the quantity of sugar excreted, however variable from day to day, bears a fairly constant relation (2'8 : 1) to the quantity of nitrogen present in the urine. Devi- ations from this numerical relation are usually found to occur shortly after the operation and also shortly before death. The two chief factors that have to be considei-ed in explaining the former deviation are, first, the gradual increase in the severity of the diabetes, and, secondly, the condition of the animal prior to the opera- tion. In badly nourished animals the normal relation, 2*8 parts of glucose to 1 part of nitrogen, was only gradually reached ; while in well-nourished animals having presumably a considerable quantity of glycogen stored in the liver and muscles, the quantity of sugar ex- creted increased much more rapidly, attaining temporarily in some cases values much exceeding the normal relation of 2'8 : 1. The most prob- able explanation of the diminished excretion of sugar that occurs shortly before death is that the production of sugar from proteid is dis- turbed owing to the fall in the nutrition and strength of the animal. The production of sugar by the organism, in so far as it occurs at the expense of the proteids, is to be regarded as a very complex process, in which synthetic as well as hydrolytic and oxidative processes play a part, so that one can readily understand that this function may be much interfered with by any failure of the vital powers of the organism, such as that occurring during fever or at the approach of death. If the pancreas be only partially excised, the severity of the diabetes produced varies greatly according to the amount of gland substance left intact. If ^ to of the gland substance be left untouched, an alimentary glycosuria is the only result. If the excision be somewhat more complete, a diabetes of medium severity results. The diabetes following incomplete excision tends to gradually increase in severity, probably as the result of atrophic changes occurring in the portion of gland left untouched. Exact numeri- cal data with regard to the amount of gland necessary to prevent the occurrence of diabetes are wanting. If a portion of the pancreas be transplanted to the subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall, and the remainder of the gland be then excised, it is found that no glycosuria occurs in those cases in which the transplantation has been completely successful. Occasionally the oper- ation is followed by a slight transitory glyco- suria. Diabetes of the severest type immediately follows excision of the transplanted portion of gland. Ligature of the vessels supplying the transplanted piece of gland also induces dia- betes ; while no permanent glycosuria follows ligature of its veins. Minkowski considers the latter fact to be important as an indication that the direct passage of blood from the transplanted portion of gland into the portal vein is not necessary for the prevention of pancreatic diabetes. It may be concluded from these results that there is no direct relation between the external secretion of the pancreas and that function which regulates the metabolism of glucose. A consideration of these facts naturally leads to the question as to whether these two apparently independent functions are dependent upon the activity of the same cellular elements. Schafer has suggested that the specific function of the pancreas in the metabolism of sugar is controlled by the cells in the cell islets of Langerhans. As evidence in favour of this view may be adduced the fact that diabetes has in several cases been found to be associated with degener- ative changes in the epithelial cells of the islets of Langerhans without any other destructive pathological lesion of the pancreas. Relation of Diabetes Mellitm to lesion of the Pancreas. — Opie has described in a paper {Journ. of Exp. Med., vol. v., March 25) changes in the Langerhans islets in various forms of chronic interstitial pancreatitis. So long as the fibrous tissue overgrowth did not penetrate within the lobules, the islets were not aff"ected and diabetes did not ensue. In two out of three cases of interstitial pancreatitis, diabetes mellitus was present. Opie also, in a previous paper, described a peculiar lesion of the pancreas in a case of diabetes mellitus where the islets were replaced by areas of hyaline material. He describes the reactions of this material to different stains. The description of the case in his most recent paper is very interesting, show- ing that diabetes mellitus may occur when the ordinary secretory cells are normal and the Langerhans cells degenerated. In order to obtain an insight into the nature of the disturbance of metabolism, which under- lies pancreatic diabetes, it is important to consider the fate of the different forms of carbo- hydrates within the organism of the diabetic animal. Glucose and its anhydrides, in so far as the latter undergo digestion, are absorbed and excreted as glucose without apparently undergoing any change within the organism. It is true that the increased excretion of glucose