84 NOSE—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION membrane lining the nasal cavities. It is so often accompanied by hypertrophic changes that the two diseases (simple and hypertrophic rhinitis) may be conveniently considered together. Etiology.—Chronic rhinitis often has its origin in repeated attacks of acute nasal catarrh, especially when the form of the nasal cavities (deflections or spurs of the septum) jJredisposes to retention of the products of inflammation. Congenital narrowness of the nasal passages, causing the turbinated bones almost to touch the septum, and a high arch to the palate, also favour chronic catarrh. In other cases it is caused by the entrance of irritants into the nose, such as tobacco smoke, snuff, particles of coal smoke, and the irritants generated in certain trades, e.g. those of millers, tobacco workers, stone-masons, etc., and those found in certain chemical factories where ammonia, sulphuric acid, bichromate of potash, and other irritants are produced (coryza professionalis). In abscesses of any of the accessory sinuses the nasal mucous membrane is also kept in a state of chronic catarrh. Furthermore, growths in the nasopharynx, such as adenoid vegetations, may give rise to chronic rhinitis, as well as foreign bodies in the nose and rhinoliths. As predisposing causes for chronic coryza are enumerated : syphilis — especially congenital occurring in childi'en — scrofula, and gout. Chronic rhinitis is commoner in men than in women, in the proportion of two to one (Klem- perer). This is attributable to their occupations and habits. Pathology.—According to Hajek and Klem- perer ^ bacteria play but a subordinate part in chronic rhinitis ; it is therefore not to be re- garded as an infective disease. Bacteria have never been detected in the mucous membrane itself. Those present so abvmdantly in the secretion are, according to Klemperer, simply those found in the normal nose, which have enormously increased in number in the profuse and pathologically changed secretion. This does not, of course, apply to some forms of subacute purulent rhinitis, especially to gonorrhceal rhinitis, and possibly to that accompanying certain acute infectious diseases. The microscopic appearances consist (Klem- perer) of a considerable cellular infiltration of the epithelium and subepithelium tissue, espe- cially in the latter case round the glands and vessels. The epithelial layers are increased, the upper layers have become more cubical or flattened, and the ciliated cells are only present in places. The cavernous spaces are dilated; the connective tissue is scarcely increased. After a time the swelling of the mucosa in- creases and becomes more localised ; the diffuse swelling becomes a circumscribed thickening. ' Handbuch dcr Lai-yngologie und Rhinologie. Ed. by Dr. Paul Heymaiin, 1900, vol. iii. p. 384. Article on "Chronic Rhinitis." The parts most commonly afiected in this manner are the posterior and anterior ends, and the lower margins of the inferior turbinated bodies ; less frequently, the middle turbinated bodies, the floor, and the septum. The thick- enings may be of a dark purple colour, or whiter, from thickening of the epithelium and connective tissue. They may be markedly papillary in character, or the papillge may be only visible with a lens. Microscopical examination of the thickened portions shows a distinct in- crease of the connective tissue, also often of the vessels and glands. The epithelium exhibits the same changes as those already mentioned, but the layers are much more numerous, while the cellular infiltration is much less marked. Subepithelially, firm connective tissue is always present in considerable quantity. Various names have been given to these thickenings, according to the preponderance of different elements in their structure, and also according to their external configuration. As there is no unanimity on the subject amongst observers, Klemperer suggests that they should all be termed " thickenings," diffused or cir- cumscribed, temporary or permanent, the latter being divided according to their shape into polypoid, lobed, papillary, etc. Zarniko, on the other hand, prefers to call them all "fibromata," as the connective tissue is always increased. In ninety-nine times out of a hundred, the term " hypertrophy " cannot, strictly speaking, be applied to them (Zarniko), because (1) they do not exhibit a simple excess of normal growth corresponding in structure to the normal tissue, and (2) they do not exert the functions of the normal organ in an increased degree. Symptoms.—Stoppage of the nose and dis- charge are the symptoms chiefly complained of. The nasal obstruction may be one or both sided, temporary or permanent, and may alternate. It may be caused not only by structural changes, but by accumulation of secretion, which may be mucous, muco-purulent, or purulent in char- acter. Other symptoms are: loss of smell (anosmia), partial or complete; loss of taste of flavours (less frequent), excessive sneezing, sen- sation of pressure or weight in the nose, head- ache, epistaxis, loss of resonance of the voice (due to the nasal obstruction). A sensation of dryness and burning in the nose is sometimes present. Examination of the Nose.—Examination of the nose reveals in the simple form of chronic rhinitis a general redness and fulness of the mucosa, which has lying upon it in parts more or less mucous or muco-purulent discharge. In old-standing cases the mucous membrane is sometimes unusually pale. There is generally more or less turgescence of the erectile tissue on the inferior turbinated bodies, and when this is very marked and accompanied by vio- lent sneezing and watery discharge, the term