514 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Such direct observations on muscle and the blood nourishing it, indicate that constant chemical changes are going on when the muscle is at rest. It is constantly giving off carbon dioxide and constantly consuming oxygen, glu- cose, and possibly fats and proteins. When must that older that Fig. 32.—Exchanges between muscle and blood doing work these chemical changes become more active. We may compare resting muscle in its chemical changes to an engine with its fires banked down. Active muscle is compar- able to the engine with its fires in full blast. 4. Effects of Muscular Work upon the Ex- creta.—Another method of study has yielded results of very great value—the investigation of the effects of muscular work upon the excreta. Not only is muscle the most bulky and most constantly active tissue, but it is the tissue in which the most extensive chemical changes occur in the liberation of the energy for work and heat production; and hence, the waste products of the body are chiefly derived from muscle, and their amount and character aiTord an indication of the changes in tissue. This was long ago recognised, but the experimenters did not sufficiently realise the excretions are modified by the amount and character of the food taken, and hence their results are of little value. In studying the in- fluence of muscular work on the excreta, food must be withheld or must be unvarying during the experiment. If this precaution is taken, it is the excretion of the various elements composing muscle is modified by muscular work. Attention has chiefly been di- rected to the variations in the out- put of carbon and nitrogen, the two most important elements in muscle, the former mainly appearing as carbon dioxide in the expired air, the latter as urea in the urine. It has been found that if a fasting or underfed animal is made to do work the excre- tion of both these elements is increased, the carbon proportionately to the work done, the nitrogen in quantities not strictly proportionate to the work, being greater the more under- fed the animal is and the harder the work done, and being less the better nourished the found that animal is or the less the work that is done (Fig. 33, 1). If a lean animal be fed on an exclusively protein diet, the excretion of carbon and nitrogen is increased, practically proportionately to the work done (Fig. 33, 2). But if the animal be well fed on an ordinary diet, containing proteins, carbohydrates, and fats, the performance of mus- cular work increases the excretion of carbon pro- portionately to the work done, but may cause only a very slight increase in the excretion of nitrogen (Fig. 33, 3). From the increased excretion of nitrogen and carbon the consumption of proteins may be calculated, since proteins contain 16 per cent of nitrogen and 52 per cent of carbon—i.e. 3'4 times more carbon than nitrogen. Each gram of nitrogen excreted thus represents the breaking down of 6-25 grams of protein, and it is accom- panied by 3-4 grams of carbon. If more carbon is excreted, it must come from carbohydrates or fat. Proceeding in this way, it is found that in the fasting animal and in the animal fed on proteins, the muscles get their energy chiefly from pro- teins, but that in an animal on an ordinary diet the muscles get it chiefly from the carbohydrates and fats of the food. An example of such an investigation may be given. Suppose that a man, or animal, during a period of rest excretes daily 10 grams of nitro- gen, and that he then does 100,000 kgms. of work, and during the next three days the excre- tion of nitrogen is raised 2 grams above the 10 per diem. This means that 2x6-25 = 12-5 grams of protein has been decomposed. Now the amount of energy which can be liberated from 1 gram of protein has been found to be equivalent to 1738 kgms. (kilogram-metres), and REST WORK REST \ 2 3 Fig. 33.—To illustrate the influence of muscular work upon the excretion of carbon and of nitrogen—1, in a fasting or underfed auimal; 2, in an animal fed on pro- teins ; 3, in an animal on a normal diet. therefore the 12-5 grams decomposed in the experiment is sufficient to yield 21,635 kgms. of energy, about 20 per cent of the total energy expended in the work. The rest of the energy must be derived from fats and carbohydrates. 5. A study of the ordinary diet of men doing muscular work corroborates the conclusions