501 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM canals running in the long axis of the bone, with trabeculse of cartilage between them. Into these canals the processes of the periosteum extend, and fill them with its fibrous tissue. A deposition of lime salts takes place upon the trabeculse, enclosing cells of the invading fibrous tissue, and thus forming a crust of bone, while the cartilage also becomes calcified. If this calcification of the cartilage and deposition of bone were to go on imchecked, the block of cartilage would soon be converted to a solid mass of calcified tissue. But this does not occur; for, as rapidly as the trabecular become calcified, they are absorbed, while the active changes extend farther and farther from the centre to the ends of the shaft. The centre is thus reduced to a space filled by fibrous tissue which afterwards becomes the bone marrow. The process of absorption does not stop at the original block of cartilage; but after all of this has been absorbed, the bone formed round the cartilage (the periosteal bone) is attacked by burrowing processes from inside and outside, which hollow out long channels running in the long axis of the bone. These are the Haversian spaces (Fig. 14). Round the inside of these. Fig. 14.—Cross-section through part of the shaft of an adult long bone to show the arrangement in lamellae distributed as— Haversian, 1; interstitial, 2; peripheral, 3 ; and medullary, 4. calcification occurs, spreading inwards in layers, and enclosing connective-tissue fcells, until, at length, only a small canal is left, an Haversian canal, containing some connective tissue, blood- vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, with layer upon layer of bone concentrically arranged around it. This constitutes an Haversian system. In this way the characteristic appearance of the shaft of a long bone is produced (Fig. 14), with layers of calcified fibrous tissue, the bone lamellae, arranged as Haversian, interstitial, peripheral, and medullary lamellae. One important function pei-formed by the cartilage is in bringing about the increase in length of the bones. In addition to the centre of ossification in the shaft, at each end of the bone one or more similar centres of ossification form. These are the epiphyses. Between these and the central rod of bone—the diaphysis—a zone of cartilage exists vmtil adult life, when the bones stop growing. In this zone, the cells arrange themselves in vertical rows, divide at right angles to the long axis of the bone and form cartilage. This cartilage as it is formed is attacked by the bone-forming changes at the diaphysis and epiphyses, but the amount of new cartilage formed is proportionate to this, and thus a zone of growing cartilage continues to exist until early adult life, when epiphyses and diaphysis join and growth in length is stopped. The rate and extent of this growth of the carti- lage has an important influence on the growth of the individual. (2) Chemistry. — The composition of adult bone is roughly as follows :— Water, 10 per cent. Solids, 90 per cent. Organic, 35 per cent—chiefly collagen. Inoi'ganic, 65 per cent. Calcium phosphate, 51. ,, carbonate, 11. ,, fluoride, 0-2. Magnesium phosphate, 1. Sodium salts, 1. The points to be remembered are the small amount of water, the large amount of inorganic matter (chiefly calcic phosphate), and the nature of the organic mattei'—collagen. {B) The Master Tissues of the Body, Muscle and Nerve By means of the epithelial and connective tissues the body is protected, supported, and nourished. It performs purely vegetative functions, but it is not brought into relation- ship with its environments. By the develop- ment of nerve and muscle the surroundings are able to act upon the body, and the body can react upon its surroundings. These tissues may therefore be called the Master Tissues, and it is as their servants that all the other tissues functionate. So far as the chemical changes in the body are concerned, muscle is moi-e important than nerve, for three reasons—First, it is far more bulky, making up something like 42 per cent of the total weight of the body in man; second, it is constantly active, for even in sleep the muscles of respiration, circulation, ai:id digestion do not rest; and third, the changes going on in it are very extensive, since its great function is to set free energy from the food. So far as the meta- bolism of the body is concerned, muscle is the master tissue. For muscle we take food and breath, and to get rid of the waste of muscle the organs of excretion act. Hence it is in con-