550 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM A posterior root, P.R., comes off from the postero-lateral aspect of the cord and has a swelling upon it, the ganglion of the posterior root. It joins an anterior root, A.R., coming from the antero-lateral margin. These form the spinal nerve which is distributed to the body wall. Lying in front of this is a swelling or ganglion, ^S'.^., joined to the nerve by two roots—a white ramus, W.R., and a grey ramus, G.R.; and from this a nerve extends towards the viscera, V.N. Before this nex-ve reaches its final distribution it passes through another ganglion. Roots of the Spinal Nerves.—The posterior root is the great ingoing channel to the spinal cord, and the anterior root is the great outgoing- channel. Section of a series of posterior roots leads to (a) loss of sensation in the structures from which the fibres come, and (6) to a loss of muscular co-ordination, as a result of cutting off the afferent impressions connected with the kinsesthetic sense (p. 528). As a result of this section, the parts of the fibres cut off from the cells of the ganglia on the posterior root die and degenerate {see p. 521). Therefore, if the root is cut inside the ganglion, the degeneration extends inwards and up the posterior columns of the cord; and if it is cut outside, the degeneration passes outwards to the periphery. Section of the anterior root causes par- alysis of the muscles and other structures supplied by the outgoing fibres, and the fibres die and degenerate. The nerve to the somatopleur or body wall, S.N., is composed of incoming and j-jq §3 , outgoing fibres. \st. Incoming fibres are meduUated and take origin in the various peripheral sense organs. As they pass through the ganglion on the posterior root each fibre is connected by a side branch with a nerve cell—the trophic centre of the neuron—and it then enters the spinal cord, and either passes to the postero-lateral column, or forms synapses in the cord {see p. 522). '2nd. Outgoing fibres are meduUated, and take origin from the large cells in the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord and pass on to be connected with muscle fibres by end plates or to gland cells by less definite synapses. The nerve to the viscera or splanchnopleur, V.N., and to the involuntary structures in the somatopleur, contains—\st. Incoming Fibres.— These take origin either in definite peripheral structures, such as Pacinian corpuscles, or in some less defined endings, and as meduUated fibres pass through the various ganglia, and have their cell stations in the ganglion on the posterior root. The nerve fibres coming from Pacinian bodies and from m^xscles, like the similar fibres in the somatic branch, are large and are connected with large cells in the spinal ganglion, and they become myelinated at the same time. A set of smaller fibres similar to those coming from the skin in the somatic branch are also found in the visceral branch, and they seem to be connected with smaller cells in the ganglion. 2nd. The Outgoing Fibres are characterised by their small size, take origin chiefly in a lateral column of cells, which is well developed in the dorsal region of the cord {see p. 553), and pass out as meduUated fibres by the anterior root. From this they pass by the white root to a sympathetic ganglion, whence they may proceed in one of two different ways (Fig. 83). {a) They may form synapses with cells, and fibres from these cells may pass— 1. Outwards with the splanchnic nerves ; or, 2. Back into the spinal nerve by the grey root, and so down the somatic nerve to blood- vessels, muscles of the hairs, sweat glands, etc. The ganglia from which fibres pass back into spinal nerve are known as lateral ganglia. {b) They may pass through these ganglia on gan:_ W.R with V.N. -Structure of a typical spinal nerve. P.R., Posterior root with lion; A.R., anterior root; S.I., ganglion of sympathetic chain; , its white ramus ; G.R., its grey ramus ; V.N., visceral nerve collateral ganglion; S.N., somatic nerve. to one more peripherally situated in^j which they form synapses and are continued onwards. These ganglia from which fibres do not pass back are called collateral ganglia. Before their first interruption they are termed pre-ganglionic fibres, after their interruption post-ganglionic. The various fibres after their interruption proceed as non-meduUated or grey fibres to their termination, where they join a network of anastomosing fibres with cells—a sort of terminal ganglion. Many drugs have a special action on the terminal ganglia ; e.g. apocodein paralyses them, while adrenalin—the extract of the medullary part of the suprarenals—stimu- lates certain of them. The interruption of fibres in ganglia, or their passage through these structures, has been^de- tei-mined by taking advantage of the fact that nicotine in 1 per cent solution when painted on a ganglion poisons the synapses but does not influence the fibres. Hence, when a ganglion is painted with nicotine, if stimulation of the fibres on its proximal side produces an effect.