PEMPHIGUS 394 eruption of congenital syphilis. The fact that the syphilide is always situated upon the summit of a well - marked infiltration, and practically invariably attacks the palms and soles, which are spared in pemphigus neona- torum with almost equal regularity, is generally sufficient, but the other symptoms of syphilis and the general state of the child's health would be additional factors. Treatment.—This consists simply of protect- ing the skin with some bland and non-toxic antiseptic, either in the form of a powder, such as equal parts of powdered boric acid and starch; or if extensive excoriation be present, the boric acid ointment of the Pharmacopoeia is perferable. Great care should be taken to prevent undue loss of heat, and the possibility of the child's taking cold. (2) Pemphigus Acutus Malignus.—For the knowledge of this disease we are chiefly indebted to the work of Pernet and Bulloch. The disease usually occurs in those who have to handle meat or skin, and hence is most common in butchei's. In some cases there has been a definite history of a small wound on the hand a month or two before the outbreak of the eruption. The eruption itself has no particular character- istics which would serve to distinguish it from a severe case of pemphigus vulgaris, but it is accompanied by a severe constitutional dis- turbance. The symptoms are fever, albumin- uria, vomiting, diarrhoea, and general exhaustion; in fact, we have before us the clinical picture of a severe intoxication. The disease is generally fatal (75 per cent of Pernet's collected cases), and its duration varies from twenty-four hours to about three weeks. As regards its etiology and pathology the fact that it occurs in those who are in frequent contact with the skin and flesh of animals, together with the frequent history of a precedent wound, would point to its originating in a local inoculation. Demme has found in the serum of the clear unruptured bullae a diplococcus which grew in a rosette form on agar, and did not liquefy gelatine very readily, and this discovery has been confirmed by Bleibtreu, Bulloch, and others. The coccus was patho- genic to guinea-pigs when injected into the pleura, but did not give rise to any definite changes when injected subcutaneously. The pathological anatomy does not differ from that of pemphigus vulgaris sufliciently to require separate description. Prognosis.—From what has already been said it may be judged that the outlook is almost hopeless, roughly three-quarters of the cases ending fatally within a very short time. Treatment.—This should be by the ordinary methods of combating cases of septicsemia. The diet should be liberal, and possibly alcohol may be needed. Of internal drugs, quinine appears to have been of service in some cases. Local treatment should consist of treating the patient on a water-bed (or, if possible, perhaps in the continuous bath) and dressing the skin with absorbent and antiseptic applications. These requirements are well supplied by Lassar's paste (R Zinci oxidi, pulv. amyli, aa oij, acidi salicy- lici, gr. x.; paraffini mollis, 3ss). (3) Pemphigus Chronicus Vulgaris.—The disease may begin either insidiously or suddenly. In the latter case it is usually accompanied by shivering, malaise, and fever, and these symptoms may be more or less continuous or frequently repeated throughout the course of the disease. The eruption consists of a crop of vesicles and bullae, usually arising from apparently healthy skin, more rarely appearing on the site of a pre-existent erythema. The individual lesions vary in size from that of a small pea to that of a hen's egg, or sometimes even larger. The eruption is usually general- ised from the first, and the lesions may be either scattered without any ordinary arrangement, or they may show a tendency to occur in circular groups (Pemphigus confertus). The typical bulla when first formed is tense, hemispherical, or oval, and contains a clear yellowish fluid. After a short time, however, the contents become opalescent from the emigration of leucocytes, and the wall becomes flaccid from the evapora- tion and absorption of the fluid. In some cases a slight amount of blood may be effused into the blister in its early stage, giving a pink tinge to the contents. This condition is common, occurring usually in some of the lesions, and is to be carefully distinguished from those rare cases in which marked haemorrhage takes place into all the bullae (P. haemorrhagicus). As the fluid of the bulla disappears, the roof flattens down and adheres by means of the albuminous remains of the former's contents to the floor, thus forming a scab. This falls off in a day or two, leaving a hyperaemic patch of skin, which may become pigmented later. The period of development and involution of the individual lesion usually lasts a week or ten days, but the disease is kept up by the appearance of new crops of bullae. In some cases, probably from secondary infection, certain peculiar changes take place in the floor of the blister. Thus it may become covered with a greyish-white false membrane (P. diphtheriticus), or may be at- tacked by a progressive gangrene (P. gangrae- nosus). Both of these sub-varieties are ex- tremely fatal. The course of the disease varies greatly, and the attack may either pass off within a couple of months or may be prolonged, with remissions and exacerbations for years. In mild cases the general health is not much disturbed—sore- ness, burning, and, more rarely, itching being the chief symptoms ; but if the rash is very severe, symptoms of exhaustion from pain,