275 PARALYSIS plegia, the upper limit of the affected regions corresponding with the lower half of the thor- acic spinal cord. Dull aching pain in the back, often affecting also the legs, is an obtrusive and troublesome symptom. The most distinctive sign is great increase of the tendon reflexes, often the presence of epileptoid spasms and much rigidity, notwithstanding which fair volun- tary power is preserved, and the patient may be able to walk with an ease which is surpi'ising. Slight changes in common sensibility are present, and the sphincters are always affected, but usually not to a severe degree. These cases usually improve under treatment, and the symp- toms may entirely disappear. Morbid Anatomy.—The condition is believed to depend upon a local syphilitic infiltration of the pia arachnoid and superficial parts of the spinal cord, with small foci of thrombosis in the substance of the cord. Diagmsis.—This type is distinguished by a history of antecedent syphilis; by the gradual onset, chronic pain, preservation of voluntary movement with spastic paraplegia, sphincter trouble, and a tendency to improve greatly under treatment. Treatment. — Energetic antisyphilitic treat- ment with the most careful attention to the improvement of general nutrition is necessary. Mercury is indispensable and should be ad- ministered by inunction. Strychnine should be avoided. Continuous rest in bed should be avoided, as the power of walking soon becomes impaired from the lack of practice. When improvement sets in massage and passive movement to the legs are most beneficial, and Fraenckel's exercises are very useful. Infantile Spastic Paralysis.—Spastic para- lysis occurring in children is most frequently due to affections of the brain, less commonly to lesions of the spinal cord. In the former the lesion may be bilateral or unilateral, and the resulting paralysis, diplegia or hemiplegia. In the latter case the paralysis is segmental and paraplegic in distribution. The result- ing groups, (1) Cerebral diplegia, (2) Infantile hemiplegia, and (3) Infantile paraplegia, are further separated in that each constituting a distinct pathological entity bears no pathological relation with the others. Cerebral Diplegia.—Synonyms : Little's dis- ease ; Congenital spastic paraplegia; Birth palsy. The term cerebral diplegia comprehends a group of diseases for the most part congenitally installed, with a somewhat varied clinical aspect, but in all of which spastic paralysis, frequently associated with perverse movement, is distri- buted upon both sides of the body. Mental impairment and recurring convulsions are fre- quently associated. A widely spread, diffuse lesion of the cerebral cortex of both hemispheres is invariably present. The clinical picture of this group was first described by Little in 18-53, who was the first to show its association with premature birth. The use of the term "birth palsy" by subse- quent writers most unfortunately led to the erroneous connection of this disease with cerebral injuries received during birth. The misinter- pretation of an important pathological com- munication by MacNutt, in 1888, led to the association of this disease in England with meningeal hEcmorrhage. Further pathological investigation has led to the abandonment of meningeal haemorrhage occurring during birth as a cause of cerebral diplegia, which has been proved to depend upon a primary degenerative process occurring in the cerebral cortex. Causation. — The symptoms of the disease are in rare instances evident at birth. More frequently, some abnormality of movement first calls the attention of the nurse or parents some weeks after birth. Again, when the time arrives for a child to walk or to talk, his bodily defect may for the first time become apparent. In all cases appearing before the third year it is probable that the disease is congenitally installed. After the third year the occurrence of diplegia is very rare. Such cases of acquired diplegia do however occur, and have been met with as late as the fourth decade of life. Among the subjects of this disease males preponderate slightly. Heredity as a rule plays no part in the causation of the disease, but instances of a mother afflicted with congenital diplegia giving birth to similarly affected children are re- corded. The known etiological factors of congenital diplegia are maternal pathological states. A history of ill-health of the mother during preg- nancy is common in cases of diplegia. The mother often volunteers the statement that while she was perfectly well and strong during her other pregnancies, her health failed com- pletely during the carriage of the child afflicted with diplegia. Overwork and privation some- times account for this failure of health. Several recorded cases give a history that a woman after bearing healthy children suffers with symptoms which may be described as those of chronic neurasthenia. She then gives birth to a child afflicted with diplegia, and her subsequent preg- nancies end in still-births. This seems to show a gradual failure in the physiological process of generation, and it has been pointed out by most authors who have written on the subject that the youngest members of large families are especially prone to suffer. Not uncommonly several children of the same mother are affected, and it has been repeatedly observed that where one child of a family is afflicted with diplegia, the mortality among the other children is re- markable, and premature birth is common. In some cases a pathological psychic state of the mother during the time of pregnancy has been noted. Acute diseases and acute specific