396 PEMPHIGUS of more advanced age. Shock to the nervous system and severe chills seem to have an in- fluence in its production, one case of P. vegetans having begun with multiple onychia after fishing in ice-cold water. The fact that bullous aifec- tions not infrequently occur in the course of nervous disease has led to the theory that pemphigus is itself a disease of nervous origin, and Schwimmer found degeneration of Goll's column in one case, and infiltration round the vessels of the posterior horn and posterior root in three cases. Petrini, Mott, and others have found degeneration of the peripheral nerves. On the other hand, careful post-mortem ex- aminations have in numerous cases revealed no disease whatever of the central or peripheral nervous system. The search for organisms has, up to the present, given no positive result in the chronic cases. The blood and the serum of the bullae have been found to contain an abnormally large percentage of eosinophile cells, but since this condition has been found associated with several other diseases it has lost to a large degree the interest which was at first attached to it. The anatomy of the lesion is still a matter of some uncertainty, some observers maintaining that the bulla is formed by the separation of the horny layer from the stratum mucosum, others that the entire suprapapillary epithelium is raised from the corium. The probability is that the separation does not always take place at the same level; but in the lesions which I have had the opportunity of examining the separation has taken place between the basal layer of the epithelium and the tops of the papillae. The other morbid conditions found are of too general a nature to be useful in affording further knowledge of the nature of the disease, such as dilatation of the superficial blood and lymphatic vessels, oedema of the papillae, and slight infiltration of round cells around the vessels. In pemphigus foliaceus these changes are far more marked than in ordinary chronic pemphigus, while in pemphi- gus vegetans there is superadded an enormous overgrowth of the epithelium and a marked infiltration of corium with round cells. The diagnosis of ordinary well-marked pem- phigus usually presents no difficulties, though in some cases it may be impossible to distinguish it at first from Dermatitis herpetiformis (q.v.). The chief distinguishing points from this disease are: (1) The absence of herpetiform grouping; (2) the uniformity of the lesion, the bullaj springing from normal or slightly hyperaemic skin, no papules, wheals, or erythe- matous patches preceding the lesion. It should be noted that the bullae of pemphigus leave hyperaemic patches, but these are easily dis- tinguished. From erythema multiforme the same points, with the addition of the more acute course of the erythema and the tendency to concentric arrangement, should be sufficient. From the bullous syphilide of infants the dia- gnosis has already been given, and the same points, namely, the presence of the marked infiltration in the floor of the bulla, should render mistakes unlikely. The bullous lesion in leprosy may be distinguished by the presence of areas of auiBsthesia and the thickening of the large subcutaneous nerve trunks. In epidermolysis bullosa (described below) the definite action of trauma in producing the blisters, the fact that the disease is congenital in origin, and the common presence of scarring are the chief differential points. P7'ognosis.—In simple uncomplicated pem- phigus the prognosis appears to be good for the individual attack, but is doubtful for the ultimate health of the patient. The eruption is usually much more amenable to treatment in young patients, and it appears that permanent cures are more fi'equent in early life. The presence of marked constitutional symptoms, the affection of mucous membranes, and the presence of muscular tremors, should suggest a cautious prognosis. In pemphigus foliaceus and vegetans the disease has been up to the present so almost uniformly fatal, that the prognosis must be admitted to be hopeless. Treatment.—-The patient should in all cases be placed upon a water-bed, unless facilities are present for treating him by the continuous bath method, and this would only be necessary in very severe cases. Diet should be liberal, but alcohol is not usually indicated unless signs of circulatory failure are present. There appear to be several drugs which are extremely useful in alleviating suffering, and thus indirectly benefiting the patient, but arsenic stands out pre-eminent for its power of controlling the outbreaks of the eruption. It frequently needs to be given in full doses up to fifteen minims of the liquor three times a day. Some authorities prefer to give the drug in pill form; but this appears to possess no advantages, while it is certainly more difficult to ensure the free dilution which is so important a factor in its administration. Next in value to arsenic come quinine and opium, both of which occasionally exercise a distinctly curative effect. Lastly, phenacetin and its congeners are oc- casionally useful in relieving the distress and procuring sleep. Locally, the bullae may be punctured as soon as they become tense, and the fluid allowed to drain away. Every care should be taken to keep all excoriated places from becoming in- fected, while at the same time strong antiseptics must not be applied on account of their irritat- ing qualities, and also because of the danger of absorption. In most cases Lassar's zinc paste (given above) meets all requirements admirably, though some patients are more comfortable when dusted over with a powder containing 25 per