PARANOIA 334 Period of Invasion.—The period of invasion is generally a slow and gradual one, the disorder manifesting itself at first indefinitely with malaise and uncomfortable sensations which forcibly attract the attention of the patient, especially when the sensations are of an intense nature. The appetite for food, the capacity for work and sleep are all diminished. The subjects of these disordered functions and sensations become suspicious, and imagine that there is something peculiar in their appearance which may be visible to other people. From such ideas the transition is easy to the belief that they are stared at for some purpose, that they are despised or distrusted, or socially tabooed, until ultimately they lose self-control, and openly accuse people of annoying them. To these imaginations the patients add a review of their past life, persistently dwelling upon slights, insults, and oversights which they may have previously experienced, until they become convinced that they have long been the victims of systematic persecution. In some cases the symptoms of the invasion period are so vague as not to attract the attention of other people, or so short that the appearance of hallucinations of hearing which usher in the second stage may be mistaken for the commencement of the malady. Second Period.—Hallucinations of hearing of a disagreeable nature are a constant symptom of the second stage. They begin vaguely as sounds or noises in the ears, and proceed steadily until isolated words are formed, and finally complete sentences and even long conversations are heard by the patient. In the majority of cases these hallucinations are unilateral, but in some cases bilateral. In the latter case it is not unusual for the patient to be cognisant of different voices in each ear. Hallucinations of hearing persist throughout the disease, but when the second stage is established other hallucinations commence to appear. First among these are hallucinations of taste and smell, upon which the patients found their delusions of poisoning, the most persistent delusions of the disease. Succeeding these come those of touch, pain, and general sensi- bility, luider the influence of which the patients are often driven to retaliative measures against their supposed tormentors. Lastly, genital and sexual hallucinations make their appearance. These are usually of an intense and distressing character, absorbing the patient's whole atten- tion, and disturbing his self-control more than any other kind of false perception. In men they may give rise to a belief in attempts at castration, emasculation, bleeding from the penis, venereal inoculation, or attempts at sodomy; in women, of pregnancy, obscene practices, rape, and the introduction of foreign bodies into the vagina. The state of sensory hallucination is the most prominent and characteristic stage of the disease. The sufferings of the patient are often intense in this period, which may last from two to twenty years without any modification in the symptoms of the disease. It is important to observe, however, that all the symptoms are during this stage subject to remissions, in some cases to a slight extent, while in others there may be complete relief for periods varying from a few days to several months. Third Period. — Period of exaltation and ambition. In proportion as the disease ad- vances, and at the end of a time which varies with each case, ideas of grandeur are superadded to the existing ideas of persecution. The delusions of persecution do not at once pass away; in many cases they persist during the life of the patient, but they gradually lose their intensity, and may only remain in the mind as a disagreeable memory. Along with the delusions of ambition, hallucinations of hearing of a coi'responding nature displace the previous hallucinations of the second stage, which are always disagreeable. The delusions of ambition are extremely various, and include those of pride, grandeur, wealth, and temporal and supernatural power. They are well defined and systematised, but in their expression there is manifested a tendency towards mysticism, with the formation of new and bizarre words, and a haziness bred of the difficulty of reconciling the life of phantasy with the true environment of which the patient is normally conscious. Fourth Period.—Period of dementia. From the stage of ambitious delusion to that of dementia the progress is slight and gradual. The dementia is not equivalent to what is known as secondary or terminal dementia, but a mental weakness of a mild kind, a form of intellectual lowering in which, nevertheless, the patients retain their physical activity and their power of conversing in a rational manner on various subjects outside their delusions. The mysticism, to which reference has been made, markedly increases, and there is a tendency to wandering of the thoughts, and an absurd extravagance of expressing opinions in connection with the delusions. Some authori- ties, notably Falret and Rith, do not recognise the period of dementia. Prognosis.—The prognosis is very unfavour- able, and no treatment hitherto discovered has any influence in modifying the invariable and inevitable course of the malady. Most of the patients require to be confined, and their treatment in asylums is purely moral and symptomatic. II. Systematised Insanity in the Degenerate The description already given of progressive systematised insanity is sufficient to indicate the broad lines of the malady as it is commonly