PERITONEUM 415 sac was opened it was found to be empty, while the gut lay behind it. The peritoneum over the anterior surface of the caecum formed the posterior wall of the sac. At points of fixation along the alimentary canal peritoneal folds occur, forming fossae. They are found at the ileo-jejunal flexure, about the caecum, where Lockwood and Rolleston describe three, and in the neighbourhood of the sigmoid. Internal hernia may occur in connection with these folds, or with the lesser peritoneal sac. Hernia into the lesser peritoneal sac may occur either through the foramen of VVinslow, or through the central part of the gastro-hepatic omentum, which is weaker than the rest, and is called the pars flaccida. The attachment of the mesentery runs obliquely from above down, and divides the greater peritoneal cavity into lateral compart- ments, while the planes of mesentery running to the various coils of intestine lead to still further subdivision. This helps to prevent the general distribution of fluids in infectious in- vasions ; for example, the ascending mesocolon in suppurative appendicitis often restricts the pus to the iliac fossa until adhesions have formed. The loins form the lowest part of the peri- toneal cavity, and in the recumbent position free fluid collects in them rather than in the pelvis—a point which should be remembered in draining the abdominal cavity. II. Physiology The mechanical function of the peritoneum, as it is sometimes called, is the one which first strikes the observer. For a long time it was regarded as its only fimction. Mechanically, the peritoneum acts like a joint. Free and frictionless movements of the viscera which it covers are the requirements demanded of it, and by its anatomical arrange- ment and by its smooth surface, which allows the viscera to glide freely over one another, they are admirably met. It possesses, however, other functions which are no less important in the economy of the body. To properly appreciate them, it is necessary to study the peritoneum in relation to the rest of the lymphatic system of which it forms a part. It is the largest lymph space in the body, being, according to Wegner, equal in extent to the entire skin. It communicates freely with the neighbouring lymphatics, which can easily be injected from its cavity. There is a constant flow of lymph from the peritoneum through the lymphatic plexus in the diaphragm towards the thoracic duct, and so into the general circulation. The peritoneum possesses almost incredible powers of absorption and secretion. In man they are evidenced in disease; in animals they have been tested experimentally. It is im- possible to exaggerate their physiological import- ance. The fact that the absorptive power of the peritoneum is about ten times greater than that of the synovia of joints in itself, speaks for its power of natural resistance. It has been shown that, in the living animal, water injected into the peritoneal cavity is absorbed at the rate of 10 per cent of the body weight, and in the dead animal at 5 per cent of the body weight, per hour. If, on the other hand, hyper- tonic fluids, such as concentrated sugar solution, be used, its powers of secretion will be demon- strated, for a serous exudation takes place into the peritoneal cavity, amounting to 3'8 per cent of the body weight of the animal in an hour. Probably in health fluid is constantly being exuded into the peritoneal cavity from the vessels which form so close a network over its surface, but as there is exact correspondence between absorption and exudation, no residual fluid collects. The normal peritoneum is wet and glistening. It is like silk which has just been wrung out of water. It is believed that a number of factors contribute in maintaining the balance between the two processes of absoi'ption and exudation. In disease it is disturbed, and the peritoneum either becomes too dry, or fluid accumulates, distending its cavity. The vascular supply of the peritoneum is ex- ceedingly rich, and for this reason clean wounds in the membrane heal remarkably well—better, indeed, than those of any other part of the body. Its nerve supply is also abundant, and the con- nections which are formed between its nerves and important centres, such as the solar plexus, are numerous and interesting. By studying the anatomy of its nervous supply, their connections and their modes of origin, an explanation is obtained of many symptoms and reflex phenomena which are of common occurrence in abdominal disease or injury. The peritoneum is supplied with nerves from both the spinal and sympathetic systems. The connections between its spinal nerves and the solar plexus and the cardiac branches of the vagus explain the shock and cardiac inhibition which follow abdominal in- juries as reflexes, and often form such a fatal group of symptoms. The skin of the antei'ior abdominal wall is supplied with cutaneous branches from the last seven dorsal nerves. These nerves also supply the lower intercostal muscles and the muscles of the anterior abdo- minal parietes, and through the splanchnics they take an important part in the nervous supply of the peritoneum. If the peritoneum is injured, as in peritonitis, rigidity of the muscles forming the front wall of the abdomen and hyperaesthesia of the skin follow naturally as reflexes from the anatomical nervous connections. The board-like rigidity of