308 PARALYSIS only one side of the palate may be affected, and the larynx may escape, or the palate and pharynx may be affected while the tongue and larynx escape. On the other hand, even with palsy of partial distribution the lesion may be more widespread so as to occasion paralysis in the distribution of other cranial nerves, as, for instance, the facial, the motor or sensory division of the fifth, or both. Moreover, the effects of the lesion may be still more widely felt, in that there may be weakness in the limbs, usually hemiplegic in distribution, or blunting of sensibility on one side of the body, and in the absence of objective signs there may, nevertheless, be subjective sensations such as numbness or tingling in these parts. Such widespread manifestations are especially liable to be met with at the outset, whereas the symptoms may subsequently clear up wholly or partially, leaving only the bulbar paralysis, which also commonly improves to some extent, though a variable degree of defect of this kind is permanent. Indeed, when seen in after years the patient's condition may closely re- semble that met with in chronic bulbar paralysis due to progressive degeneration of the nuclei of the bulb; but unlike that affec- tion there is no tendency for the paralysis to progress. There is an acute inflammatory form of bulbar paralysis in which the onset though rapid is not sudden; several hours, or even a few days, may elapse before the maximum effect of the lesion is produced. The morbid process that attacks the bulbar nuclei under these circumstances is the same as that met with in acute poliomyelitis, in which the grey matter of the anterior horns of the spinal cord is the seat of the lesion. The changes consist in destruction of the cells of the nuclei, swelling and disintegration of the nerve fibres, dilatation of the blood-vessels, which are engorged, and exudation of leucocytes, or even actual small extravasations of blood. The attack is ushered in by febrile disturb- ance, and with the rise of temperature malaise and headache are experienced, while vomiting occurs in some cases, and there may be diarrhoea. The precise distribution of the paralysis varies in different cases. There may be difficulty in swallowing, paralysis of the palate, tongue, and commonly of the face also, notably its lower half. Like poliomyelitis which affects the spinal cord, parts may be picked out while others escape, so that the face and tongue may be only affected on one side, although both sides of the palate are paralysed and deglutition is difficult. Chronic Bulbar Paralysis. — This variety of bulbar paralysis is due to either nuclear or infra-nuclear lesions. The nuclear form has already been described in conjunction with progressive muscular atrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; but we have yet to deal with the chronic forms of infra - nuclear bulbar paralysis, including the effects of lesions of the bulbar nerves outside the cranial cavity. Infra-nuclear Bulbar Paralysis.—The group- ing of the symptoms differs according to whether the nerves are implicated in the intra- medullary part of their course, or whether they are affected outside the medulla oblongata before they leave the cranial cavity, and there is a further difference in the symptomatology when the nerves are involved outside the cranial cavity. Intra-medullary lesions are rare, but may occasion a form of crossed paralysis in which half of the tongue and soft palate and one vocal cord are all paralysed on the same side, while the limbs are affected on the opposite side, and the face escapes. Hemiansesthesia may also be present on the side that the limbs are paralysed. The affected part of the tongue wastes, and the muscles of this side of the organ, together with those of the corresponding half of the palate, show the reaction of degeneration on electrical examination. Extra-medullary lesions occur more frequently, and are most often due to syphilitic affections, either gumma or chronic meningitis ; but simple meningitis may also lead to the symptoms that characterise this form of bulbar paralysis, as may tumours that are situated near the med- ulla. The symptoms that arise are paralysis of half of the tongue and palate, together with similar affection of the vocal cord on the same side; but what is distinctive of a lesion in this situation is the association of paralysis of the sterno-mastoid and upper part of the trapezius with the bulbar paralysis, owing to implication of the spinal accessory nerve. The muscles and the affected half of the tongue waste, and present the reaction of degeneration on electrical stimulation. As the structures on one side are alone affected, no bulbar symptoms arise, for as long as the muscles of the opposite side are in- tact no difficulty in speaking or in swallowing is experienced. Extra-cranial affections, such as caries, tumours, cellulitis, or peripheral neuritis may cause paralysis in the distribution of the lower bulbar nerves by affecting them after they have left the cranial cavity, and it is easy to mistake cases of this kind for those due to intracranial lesions; indeed, the differential diagnosis may be most difficult. Caries or new growth, by involving the pharyngeal plexus of nerves, may lead to paralysis of the palate without affection of the tongue or larynx, while neuritis may cause weakness of the tongue, palate, and vocal cords ; or only a single nerve may be affected, as, for instance, one hypoglossal, with paralysis and atrophy of the corresponding half of the tongue. PSEUDO - BULBAR PARALYSIS (Doublc Hcmi-