561 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM opposite side and partly in the thalamus opticus (Fig. 99, S.C.F.). The red nucleus fibres seem to pass upwards to the cerebrum and down- wards into the pre-pyramidal tract of the spinal cord. How far the former are upward con- ducting and how far downward is not definitely known. The cerebellum thus constitutes the central part of one of the great nervous arcs, the in- going fibres terminating in the cortex which sends fibres to the basal ganglia, which in turn send out the outgoing fibres. Functions. — Removal of the cerebellum deprives the animal, for a time at least, of the power of balancing itself. This may be easily demonstrated in the pigeon (Fig. 105, p. 564). But in some cases, when slowly progressing disease has destroyed the organ, no loss of equilibration has appeared, and in other cases the cerebellum has been congenitally almost absent, and yet the individual has not shown any sign of want of power of maintaining his balance. Evidently, therefore, some other part of the brain can compensate for its absence. The manner in which the cerebellum acts has been chiefly elucidated by removing parts of the organ and keeping the animals under observation for prolonged periods. If one side of the cerebellum be removed the first symptoms are (1) a tonic contraction of the muscles of the limbs of the same side by which the fore limbs may be powerfully extended, and an arching of the body with the convexity towards the side of the lesion, while the animal may be driven round its long axis to the opposite side. (2) These irritative symptoms soon pass ofi^, and the animal then manifests inadequacy or weak- ness in the limbs of the affected side, so that it droops to that side, and, if a quadruped, may circle to that side. (3) After some weeks these symptoms disappear, and the loss of one side of the cerebellum is apparently completely compensated for. When in the dog compensation has been established, destruction of the cerebral cortex of the opposite side leads to a reappearance of the muscular inadequacy. Electrical stimulation of the cerebellum has yielded results somewhat difficult of interpreta- tion, but the most recent investigations seem to show that stimulation of the cortex with currents strong enough to produce movements when applied to the discharging part of the cerebral cortex {see p. 571) do not produce manifest effects, but that comparatively weak currents applied to the basal ganglia do produce movements, the most manifest of which are the conjugate movements of the eyes, and the eyes and head to the side stimulated. It has been further found that powerful stimulation may also cause flexion of the elbow of the same side and extension of the opposite VOL. VII elbow with extension of the trunk and lower limbs. This may be associated wit'n the main- tenance of the body in the erect position and the alternate movements of the limbs in the act of progression. Taking into consideration the fact that lesions of the posterior nerve roots cause loss of muscular co-ordination, while destriiction of the ascending cerebellar tracts produces decrease of muscular tone on the same side, it may be concluded that both the kinaesthetic mechanism, which plays so important a part in maintaining the balance of the body, and the labyrinthine mechanism, have an important central station in the cerebellum. It would thus appear that the cerebellum is to be regarded as a tiiechanism suj:)plenientary to the great cerehro-sjnnal mechanism, and that it has for its purpose more especially the muscular co-ordination and adjustment required in main- taining the balance. This it may do in one or both of two ways— 1. By receiving impulses from without, and sending impulses downwards to act upon the spinal mechanism. 2. By receiving impulses, and sending im- pulses iipwards to the cerebrum to modify its action. Channels for such impulses exist (1) in the fibres of the pons which cross the middle line to connect with cells from which fibres pass upwards to the occipital and frontal lobes of the cerebrum (Fig. 41, p. 522) and (2) in the superior peduncles. To maintain the constant muscular adjust- ments involved in balancing the body an arrangement whereby any disturbance of the equilibrium can produce an appropriate reaction is required. The ingoing impulses which are more espe- cially of service in this way are derived from (1) the kincBsthetic mechanism {see p. 555); (2) the tactile mechanism from the soles of the feet; (3) the eye; and (4) the labyrinthine mechanism (p. 548). When the information as to our relationship with our surroundings derived from these various sources is not concordant—e.g. when through the semicircular canals we have a sensation of movement, and through the eyes an apparent absence of movement—balancing becomes difficult, and a feeling of giddiness results. This may be readily demonstrated by setting a poker vertically on the floor, holding it in the hand, placing the forehead on the top, walking rapidly three times round it, then standing up and trying to walk out of the room. The sudden stoppage of the rotatory movement causes a disturbance in the semicircular canals giving a sense of rotation in the opposite direction, while the eyes tell us that no rotation is taking place. The feeling of giddiness is, however, not the cause of the loss of balancing, but a mere accompaniment. 36