279 PARALYSIS Rigidity applies, as regards the lower ex- tremities, to this type. Convergent strabismus occurs more frequently in this type than in the others, and is found in 30 per cent of the cases. Mental defects, difficulties of speech and of swallowing, occur as frequently as in other types, but for the most part in a lesser degree of severity. Convulsions are present in 36 per cent of the cases. Combinations of paraplegic rigidity, with choreic diplegia and with bilateral athetosis, occur. Bilateral Athetosis and Choreic Diplegia {Congenital Chorea).—The essential feature of the types consists in the presence of constantly occurring spontaneous movements which may affect all the muscles of the body. Bilateral athetosis and choreic diplegia are only separated as types by the form and extent of the spontaneous movements, and the two forms of movement may occur in the same case. The movements of athetosis are slow, rhythmical, and affect the peripheral parts of the limbs most. The choreic movements are quick, shock- like, localised, and affect the proximal parts of the limbs most. The term " choreic move- ments " is an unfortunate one, as the movements in no way resemble those of true chorea. The trunk muscles are often affected. Choreic movements always cease during sleep. Athetosis frequently affects the face, and is associated with great facial overaction and grim- acing on voluntary movement. The tongue, when at rest in the mouth and when protruded, may show most evident athetosis. In severe cases all the muscles of the body may be affected, and the movements beginning in one limb may spread successively to the other limb on the same side, and then to the opposite limbs. In some cases the movements are confined to one region of the body. The face or the upper or lower extremities may be affected alone. Athe- totic movements sometimes continue during sleep. Slight generalised rigidity and paresis are present in these cases, though they may amount to little more than an increase of the deep reflexes and slowness of voluntary move- ment. The same mental changes, affection of speech, nystagmus, strabismus, optic atrophy, and dysphagia, as have been described in Generalised Rigidity, occur in bilateral athetosis and in choreic diplegia. A few points, how- ever, demand special notice. Even in the most severe cases of bilateral athetosis the mental changes may be very slight. Convulsions are common in choreic diplegia, but are very rare in cases of bilateral athetosis. In both types intention tremor is not infrequently noticed. In athetosis, actual hypertrophy of the muscles is sometimes seen. Course of the Disease.—Some cases are regu- larly progressive, either rapidly or slowly, and this generally is the case with the more severe forms of generalised rigidity. Others, after the symptoms have reached a certain degree of intensity, may remain stationary, or may tend to improve. The latter result is more often seen in cases of paraplegic rigidity and slight generalised rigidity. The amount of improve- ment is, however, rarely great. In slight cases of generalised rigidity the symptoms may dis- appear from the upper limbs, leaving a condition of paraplegic rigidity. Improvement is, perhaps, never met with in bilateral athetosis and choreic diplegia, and cases of athetosis are usually progressive. Speaking generally, cerebral diplegia tends to shorten life much more than does hemiplegia, and few infantile cases reach adult life. Pathology.—Though a considerable number of autopsies have been recorded, the examination has been made long after the onset of the disease, and from the condition found it has been im- possible to infer the initial lesion. In nearly all the cases there has been symmetrical atrophy and sclerosis of the convolutions of both cere- bral hemispheres, without disturbance of their form and arrangement. The atrophy always affects the Rolandic region to a greater or less extent. The convolutions are small and hard, and the sulci widened. The cortex is thinned, and its surface often presents a worm-eaten appearance. The surface of the brain generally presents an appearance like that of a walnut kernel. Often associated with this atrophy are cysts, sometimes multiple and small, sometimes large, a condition of porencephaly being present. There is usually some dilatation of the ven- tricles. Microscopically there is atrophy of the nerve-cells of the grey matter, and in proportion as the case is of long standing or recent, there is more or less increase of the glial tissue and periarterial thickening. Many different pathological processes have been held responsible for the atrophy of the cortex. Meningeal hsemorrhage occurring at birth, venous and arterial thrombosis in the cerebral cortex, embolism, and in cases where cysts exist, cerebral haemorrhages, have been brought forward as the primary lesions, but with increasing investigation the evidence has gone against these factors. Non-development of the pyramidal system is rather the result than the cause of the disease, as some authorities hold. Polioencephalitis has been proved to pro- duce diplegia only in adults, and the clinical picture of this rare disease is peculiar. There is much evidence that the condition depends upon a primary degeneration of the nerve-cells of the cerebral cortex, and it is probable that this degeneration is caused by some as yet unknown toxic agent. Differential Diagnosis.—The diseases most