OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 214 this operation once took the lead in abdominal surgery, much that applies to that branch of our art was for long too exclusively associated with ovariotomy. Many too well known com- plications are in no sense special eftects of the removal of ovarian tumours. Hence for fuller details on saprtemia, septicaemia, peritonitis, and intestinal obstruction, the reader is referred to their proper headings. Hceriiorrhage and HcBmatoma. — Internal h?emorrhage within twenty-four hours after ovariotomy is the result of slipping of the ligature, excepting, perhaps, in a very few cases where a large vein is wounded during trans- fixing. It has been known to follow the opera- tion alike where the loop-knot, the double inter- locking-knot, the Staffordshire knot, and the ligature of both sides of the pedicle separately without interlocking, have been practised. It may be that in one or two instances a ligature has snapped after the completion of the opera- tion ; but as a rule it is the pedicle that slips from under the knot. The accident is due either to faulty tying of the knot, cutting of the pedicle too short, or dragging on the pedicle too much during ligature. When the pedicle is relaxed by the assistant the operator often fails to pull the knot tight enough, especially when the parts sink after relaxation deeply in the pelvis, so that the ends of the silk are badly placed for manipulation. Manoeuvres with sponges, etc., deep in the pelvis, at the end of the operation, have sometimes caused the ligature to slip imobserved, or have torn one border of the pedicle. The symptoms are those of internal haemor- rhage, usually very marked. They come on from about two to twelve hours after the operation, and there is often the familiar re- mission for a time after each attack of syncope. No treatment is of avail but the immediate reopening of the wound, securing of the pedicle with forceps, clearing out clots and fluid blood, and religature of the pedicle. Infusion of saline solution may be necessary. Hcematovia of the broad ligament is the result of wounding a big vessel by a too sharply pointed needle during transfixion and ligature. This complication may cause fatal haemorrhage by displacing the ligature, but a more frequent result is suppui-ation of the clot during the second or third week, probably from its prox- imity to the i-ectum. The symptoms are occa- sionally mistaken for parametritis. Sometimes a vaginal incision is necessary. Pure septiccemia is occasionally seen, especially after the removal of suppurating adherent dermoids or malignant tumours extremely ad- herent to small intestine. It is marked by a considerable rise of temperature, a great rise with weakening of the pulse, and the appearance of the bad general symptoms of septic infection. The urine becomes albuminous, and is at length suppressed. The tongue not rarely remains moist to the last, abdominal distension and re- tention of the flatus may be trifling or absent, and there may be little or no sickness. The patient may tolerate fluids by the mouth, but the stomach neither rejects nor absorbs them. The above combination of symptoms is of the gravest importance. Septicaemia is usually associated with peri- tonitis, recognised by three symptoms variable in relative degree—vomiting, tympanites, and retention of flatus. The tongue soon gets dry. Sometimes peritonitis comes on during the second or third week. Acute septic peritonitis is a trifle less fatal, and is much more manageable than pure septicaemia. The ejection of green or dark vomit should be encouraged by doses of warm water and soda, the patient should be fed by enemata, and above all the passage of flatus promoted. For this purpose gruel and turpentine enemata are efficacious. Saline purgatives are too often vomited. When flatus comes away freely the special symptoms of sepsis nearly always diminish in proportion. Intestinal Obstruction is frequently seen in the form of pseudo-ileus, paralysis, and dis- tension, with kinking of coils of gut. This condition is intimately associated with sepsis and peritonitis. Acute mechanical obstruction sometimes sets in during the second or third week, but is oftener a remote result of ovari- otomy. Intestine is apt to adhere to the pedicle, or the omentum gets attached to the pedicle and indirectly causes obstruction. Early obstruction has been relieved by operation ; but the operator must be careful about diagnosis, as secondary opei'ations are very unsuccessful in cases where pseudo-ileus exists, while enemata and purgatives not rarely save the case. Instruments, etc., left in Peritoneal Cavity.— This accident is very common in abdominal section, and especially ovariotomy, where enu- cleation, the separation of vascular adhesions, and the securing of bleeding points require the use of many sponges and forceps. Fortunately, the oversight is often recognised just as the patient has been put to bed, then reopening of the wound and removal of the foreign body involves but little danger. Trustworthy and experienced assistants and nurses may make mistakes through confusion, rather than care- lessness. The unobserved loss of a forceps or sponge down a sink during operation causes intolerable anxiety. Schauta, on two occasions, reopened the peritoneinn for a pad that had not been left there. In one case the operator's signet ring was left in Douglas's pouch, whence it was removed through the vagina. Neuge- bauer has collected no less than 108 cases of instruments left behind after abdominal section, from reports by unusually candid operators. His statistics show that the foreign body should be extracted directly it is missed, the mortality