529 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 1. Receptors Tactile corpuscles consist of a naked branching varicose termination of axons surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue, situated in the papillte of the true skin (Fig. 46). 2. Physiology The study of reflex action in the "spinal dog " (p. 524) has revealed how various may be the reactions to different stimuli of the skin, ac- cording to the part stimulated and to the char- acter of the stimulus. Thus harmful stimu- lation of the foot causes a flexion and drawing up of the leg ; pres- sure of the sole with the finger causes the ex- tensor thrust. Again, gentle stimulation on characteristic scratch- FlQ. 46.—Simple form of sensory nerve termination. In tiie tactile corpuscle the nerve fibre coils round the cap- sule before entering. (Dogiel.) seem to cause a different non-nocuous. They are an- nocuous stimulus is gener- the shoulder causes the ing reflex. Nocuous stimuli reflex result from tagonistic, and the nocuous stimulus ally prepotent, and is able to replace in reflex action the non-nocuous. The sensation which accompanies their stimulation is not that of contact but of pain, and the central neurons which transmit such impulses rvm independently of those transmitting true touch impulses. The sensations evoked by such touch stimuli may be studied by touching the table and ana- lysing the manner in which the conclusion is arrived at that a table is touched. We conclude it is a table because the surface is hard and smooth. This judgment may or may not be correct. But even in saying that the body we touch is hard and smooth, we are also forming judgments from the sensations experienced. When we say the surface is hard we mean it resists pressure, and when we say it is smooth we mean that the skin of our finger is uniformly touched and not pressed upon at certain points as it would be if the surface were rough. Or, it may be, that we draw our finger over the table and feel a continuous contact, and not the series of contacts which we should experience were the surface rough. The determination of the resistance to pressure implies the power of distinguishing differences of pressure. The determination of a continuous contact instead of a series of local contacts im- plies the power of determining or localising the VOL. VII part or parts touched, and the ability to dis- tinguish between a continuation of contact and a succession of contacts implies the power of differentiating contacts in time. The tactile sense may thus be best studied under three heads :— 1. The Power of distinguishing Differences of Pressure.—Variations of pressure in time and space are alone distinguished. We live under an atmospheric pressure of 760 mm. of mercury, but this gives rise to no sensation. Any sudden increase or diminution of pressure, however, leads to a marked change of sensation, but a slow change causes a lesser modification of con- sciousness. If a part of a body is uniformly pressed on, as when a finger is immersed in mercury, the sensation of pressure is felt as a ring at the surface of the mercury, where the greater pressure of the mercury joins the lesser pressure of the air. For these reasons, in testing the acuteness of the pressure sense over the surface of the body, these two factors must be kept in mind : the rate at which the pressure is varied and the pressure on adjacent parts of skin must be kept uniform; the part of the body being supported so that the muscular sense cannot come into play, different weights may be applied to ascertain the smallest difference of weight which can be distinguished. The pressure sense varies in different parts of the body, being most acute where the nerve terminations are most abundant, and less acute where they are fewer. Over the points of the finger, with a weight of about 1 gram, a differ- ence of about 10 per cent can be distinguished, but over the leg the difference must be much greater. Everything which diminishes the activity of protoplasm diminishes the acuteness of the pressure sense, and therefore when the skin is cold the sense is much less acute than when it is warm. Again, since the sensation is a modification of consciousness, it is modified by the state of the central nervous system. This is readily fatigued, and hence, if the tests are applied for too long a period at one time, the acuteness of perception diminishes. 2. The Power of Localising the Place of Con- tact.—Where the tactile organs are abundant, the power of distinguishing accurately the point touched is more acute than in places where these are more scattered. For this reason, if two contacts are made at the same time, they may be very close together in the former situa- tion, and each of them may be localised and felt as distinct from the other, whereas in the latter situation, they may be felt as a single contact. The power is therefore tested by determining how near two points of contact may be brought to one another, and still cause a double sensa- tion. This may be done by means of some form of sesthesiometer — e.g. a pair of com- 34