PARALYSIS 277 and very few patients so afflicted reach adult life. A tendency to amelioration is sometimes seen in cases of slight generalised rigidity and in cases of paraplegic rigidity; but even in the slightest cases the amount of improvement is not great, and the symptoms never entirely disappear. Between the several types of cerebral diplegia there exists every variety of transitional form and combination. Generalised Rigidity.—As its name implies, the chief characteristic of this type of diplegia is a condition of miiscular rigidity associated with weakness affecting to a greater or less ex- tent all the muscles of the body. Except in the most severe cases, where the weakness amounts to complete paralysis, there is more rigidity than weakness. In some cases it is astonishing that there should be so much power in the presence of such a degree of rigidity. The dis- tribution of the rigidity and weakness is gener- ally that the lower extremities are most affected, the upper to a less degree, and the facial region still less. In a few cases the arms have been more affected than the legs. Movement is slow and clumsy, and often athetotic, and choreic movements are present in the limbs. If the patient is able to walk, the gait is digitigrade from contracture of the calf muscles. The knees are slightly flexed from contracture of the hamstrings. The thighs are rotated in- wards and the knees pressed close together, rubbing against one another with each projec- tion of the limb. More severe adductor spasm gives rise commonly to the " cross-legged" progression. The assumption of the sitting position is im- possible in marked cases. When such a patient is placed in a chair the legs stand out stiffly, and the child will not fit the chair, owing to the rigidity preventing the necessary flexion at the junction of the lower extremities with the trunk; he tends, therefore, to slide off. In the most severe cases the patient lies in a log-like fashion, unable to move or turn in bed, and then the rigidity may reach such a degree that he may be lifted by the heels in one rigid piece, the weight of the body being supported on the back of the head. In this stage, owing to muscular contractures, certain characteristic attitudes are assumed which will be described later on. Mental Symptoms.—Every degree of mental impairment is met with in these cases, from slight mental dulness to complete amentia. As a rule the average degree of mental impairment is more profound than in other types of diplegia. It, however, does not always correspond to the severity of the rigidity and paralysis. The most profound mental deficiency may exist in cases where the rigidity and paralysis are quite slight, and vice versd. This corresponds with the greater or less affection of the prse-frontal lobes. Speech Defects.—In congenital cases, and in cases occiirring before the eighteenth month, speech may never be acquired, or may be much delayed, and when acquired is often imperfect. Articulation is imperfect ] slowness of speech, with great facial overaction, slurring, and stammering often occur. When the disease arises after speech is learnt this is generally completely lost if the child be younger than six years of age, and if the case be at all severe. The loss of speech may be quite gradual, and where some intelligence persists, the under- standing of words may remain in patients who can utter no articulate sound. Convulsions. — With this type of cerebral diplegia convulsive attacks are more commonly associated than with the other types, choreic diplegia and bilateral spastic hemiplegia being excepted. They occur in rather more than half the cases. Cranial Nerves. — Primary optic atrophy occurs in a considerable number of cases. It may produce complete blindness. Inequality of the pupils and slowness of the light reaction are not uncommon. Spontaneous nystagmus of very wide range is common in cases where the face is markedly affected. It is to be regarded as the spastic ocular sign analogous to the rigidity elsewhere, and pro- duced in the same manner. Convergent strabismus occurs in about 30 per cent of the cases. In nearly all cases the face shows signs of paresis and rigidity. With slight involvement of the face this may be shown by a general loss of emotional expression, slight retraction of the eyelids, and some retraction of the angles of the mouth. With more severe involvement of the face, an unvarying starched expression, with wide palpebral apertures and a lai'ge open mouth (honche en ckxlt) are present. Slobber- ing is common. In some cases involuntary facial overaction is present, and gives rise to varying grimaces on attempts to move the face or on speaking. Athetoid movements of the face are not rarely seen. The tongue is often very large and the hard palate very much arched. The presence of adenoid vegetations in the pharynx is frequently noticed. Difficulty of swallowing is present in the large majority of cases, though it may be slight. On watching the act of deglutition in these cases the difficulty seems due to rigidity of the muscular apparatus rather than to any paralysis. Laryngeal difficulties, dysphonia, stridor, etc., have been occasionally noticed. Conformity of the Skull.—In congenital cases microcephaly is generally present (2-5 per cent of all cases). Signs of hydrocephalus are