OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 150 the duplicated terminal of the central cell are received as one only. The second theory has reference to the muscles, and is to the effect tiiat, according to the precise amount of inner- vation which is required, or which would be required, to enable the macula to receive an impression of any object, do we judge of its precise position in space: if each eye would require the same degree the object is mentally referred to the same spot—is seen singly, in other words. On either of these two supposi- tions the occurrence of double vision when a muscle is paralysed is easily enough explained, for, according to the first, the two images of the one object fall vipon non-corresponding points of the right and left retinte, and are therefore interpreted as two; while according to the other, the suffering eye is erroneously believed to be gazing in a direction other than that which in reality it has adopted; the jiosition, then, of all objects seen by that eye is incorrectly judged. Let us take again the case of paralysis of the left external rectus; on account of its insufficient action, the eye looks more towards the right side than the patient supposes it to do, he therefore refers all objects seen by it to situations farther to the left than those which they really occupy. The muscular- sense theory is the more satisfactory of the two. In regard to the symptoms produced there are three chief points to be considered ; not that these are by any means distinct from one another, for they are but different views of the same fact, but as a matter of convenience merely : these points are squint, double vision, and faulty projection. 1. Squint.—In a well-marked case of para- lysis of either of the major lateral-movers of the eye, strabismus is, at least in certain posi- tions, sufficiently obvious. To take again our old example, in paralysis of the left externus, the left eye, since the weakened muscle is in- capable of pulling it to the left, stands in a position of over-convergence; the patient has an obvious convergent strabismus. Manifestly, the degree of squint will vary, other things being equal, with the degree to which the affected muscle is called upon to exercise its function of moving to the left, and fails to do so. When the patient looks to his right hand side, since in that position the external rectus is not called upon to act, the squint will be non-existent, but in proportion as the patient is called upon to look more to his left the squint will be present in ever-increasing degree. Herein lies the essential difference between con- comitant strabismus and paralytic strabismus; in the former (which see) the squint is equal in degree all over the field of fixation, while in that at present under consideration it varies with every alteration of the position of the fixation object. In the cases of the internal and external recti squint may be obvious, but when one has to deal with paralysis of any of the other muscles he is forced to rely for diagnosis on other considerations. 2. Double vision, in some part or other of the field of fixation, exists in any case of paralysis of one of the exterior muscles, provided that the patient has sufficient intelligence to perceive it, that the vision of each eye is at least fair, and that the deviation of the suffering eye is neither so minute that the separation is not perceived, nor so excessive that the picture falls upon a very peripheral portion of the retina, and so does not impress itself upon the notice. It is by means of the position and character of the diplopia induced that one is enabled to decide, as a matter of practice, which muscle is involved in the great majority of cases. In order that the practitioner may be able to do this, it is absolutely essential that he should have at his finger ends precise knowledge of the physiological action of each of the exterior muscles of the globe. A very brief note of these must here be given. The external and internal recti have simple actions; they turn the eye, or, to speak more correctly, the cornea, outwards and inwards respectively. Each of the other muscles, however, has a triple action; it moves the cornea either upwards or downwards, and either outwards or inwards, while at the same time it so draws upon the upper or lower half of the cornea as to rotate the upper extremity of its vertical meridian either inwards (towards the nose) or outwards (towards the temple). The superior rectus, being inserted rather to the inner side of the vertical meridian of the cornea, not merely turns the cornea upwai'ds, but in virtue of its position is able to act in this manner to the best advantage when the cornea has by other muscles been at the same time turned outwards. It also tends to draw the cornea inwards as a whole, and to rotate the upper end of its vertical meridian inwards. The inferior rectus, being analogous in position, turns the cornea downwai-ds, acting best while the eye is looking outwards; it also turns the cornea inwards, and rotates the upper half of the cornea outwards. The superior oblique, running as it does backwards and outwards from the pulley, turns the cornea downwards, acting best when the eye is looking inwards; and in addition, it moves the cornea outwards as a whole, while rotating its upper half inwards. The inferior ol)lique turns the cornea upwards, acting best when the eye is looking inwards ; also turning the whole cornea outwards and rotating its upper half outwards. A moment's comparison of these statements, which indicate roughly the actions of the various nuiscles, will show that any two of these muscles agree in one of the three actions which each accomplishes, while they differ in the other two. For example,