122 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES first incision. Herbert Tilley gradually removes the gauze plug through the forehead wound, cut- ting off about three inches every third day, and finally removing the remainder when the cavity is completely lined with healthy granulations. The employment of a drainage tube passing fi'om the sinus to the nose has now been practi- cally abandoned by nearly all operators, the worsted or gauze plugging having been sub- stituted. I woiild strongly urge that after a radical operation upon the maxillary or frontal sinuses treatment by packing should be carried out, and that all irrigation should, if possible, be dispensed with. Different methods of dealing with the anterior bony wall of the sinus must be briefly referred to. The question of the removal of bone is of considerable aesthetic importance, and must receive a due amount of consideration from the surgeon. Kuhnt advocated and practised com- plete removal of the anterior wall. When the cavity is small and shallow an attempt may be made to obliterate it by the apposition of the superficial soft parts against the posterior sinus wall, a procedure which is followed by a certain amount of depression of the skin surface. When the sinus is large and extends backwards along the roof of the orbit, it is impossible to completely obliterate it in this way, and the disfigurement which results from the removal of an extensive area of bone is considerable. The sex, age, and the feelings of the patient are factors which must be taken into account in reference to this point, while experience justifies us in promising, in a large number of cases, satisfactory results withovit the removal of the whole anterior osseous wall. Howard Lothrop in one case turned down from this wall a flap of bone and periosteum which he afterwards replaced. Jansen, recognising the frequent association of ethmoidal suppuration, has removed the inferior wall of the frontal sinus through an incision made immediately below and parallel to the supra-orbital margin. In this way more ready access to the ethmoidal cells was obtained. Osteoplastic operations have also been introduced by Czerny, Kuster, and Winckler, with the object of completely re- moving the disease with the minimum of dis- figurement. Skin - grafting of the anterior of the sinus by Thiersch's method will in the future probably play an important part in the after-treatment of these cases. Tilley has re- cently reported a successful case of this kind. When both frontal sinuses are affected some operators enter each cavity through a mesial vertical incision, and if both sinuses are small this single incision readily suffices. Others, again, unite the eyebrow incisions across the mesial plane, and from the centre of this carry a vertical cut upwards. In bilateral affections it certainly seems better to operate upon each cavity through a separate eyebrow incision. Two advantages may be claimed for this manner of procedure. The after-treatment of each sinus can, in this way, be carried out in- dependently, a point of some practical import- ance if one of the cavities should continue to suppurate; further, the scars are at the same time confined to the region of the eyebrow as in the case of a unilateral sinus affection. When the frontal and maxillary sinuses of the same side are affected both should be dealt with at one operation, in order that every source of infection may be removed from the nose at the same time. Should the surgeon deem it advisable to complete the operation in two stages, it is better to open the frontal sinus in the first instance, so as to prevent any re- infection of the antrum by discharge passing downwards from the untreated frontal sinus. C. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in the Ethmoidal Cells.—In discussing the treatment of frontal sinus suppuration we have already referred to the frequent co-existence of disease in the anterior ethmoidal cells, and have shown how the latter affection must be dealt with when thus associated. The treatment of eth- moid disease per se is conducted along similar lines, with this difference, however, that it is carried owt entirely through the intranasal route. The general svirgical principles involved consist in the establishment of free drainage and the removal of every focus of diseased mucous membrane; the possible existence of suppuration in one or more of the other sinuses must always be borne in mind and systemati- cally dealt with, otherwise failure to cure the ethmoid affection will result. The method of operating will depend to a large extent upon whether the disease is limited or extensive. In the former case cocaine is applied, and with the aid of good illumination the polypi which are present are in the first instance snared, and the greater portion of the middle turbinated bone removed. At subseqiient sittings the process of snaring, punching, and scraping diseased mucous membrane and bone is repeated until the surgeon has satisfied himself, if possible, by careful inspection and probing, that every trace of disease has been removed. Owing to haemor- rhage which masks the field, and in some cases owing to the patient's inability to tolerate a prolonged sitting, several operations are neces- sary, even in those cases in which the disease does not appear to be extensive. The ethmoidal region may be temporarily plugged with gauze so as to control bleeding, but it is not advisable so long as foci of suppuration exist to check the free exit of discharge by firm packing. In the second group of cases, where the disease is extensive and appears to involve the whole ethmoid labyrinth, a more complete operation, carried out at one sitting and under a general anaesthetic, is recommended. The operation is conducted under such circumstances