187 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE The features which chiefly distinguish menin- gocele from a dermoid cyst are its firm attach- ment to the bony wall of the orbit, the existence of an aperture in the bone which can often be detected by the finger, the effect of pressure on the tumour, and the pulsation transmitted to it from the brain. A careful puncture of the cyst under strictest precautions as to sepsis would finally settle a doubtful diagnosis. A rare form of congenital cyst of the orbit occurs in association with microphthalmos or apparent anophthalmos. The cyst is placed in or immediately behind the lower eyelid, is filled with a thin serous fluid, and is connected with the rudimentary eyeball by a thin hollow pedicle, or a broad attachment by which the two cavities communicate. Retinal structures can usually be found in the cyst wall, and it is thought that these cysts are anomalous develop- ments from the embryonic tissue which normally forms the eyeball. Parasitic Cysts.—Two varieties are met with : the cystic form of tinea echinococcus (hydatid), and of tinea solium (cysticercus). Hydatid cyst of the orbit is by no means common. Indeed, compared with other parts of the body, and especially the liver, the orbit is very rarely the seat of this entozoon. It is most frequent in the young, and in the male sex. There are no symptoms which clearly distinguish this disease from other deeply - seated and progressive tumours in the orbit. Pain is often severe, and there are, both in the extra-ocular and intra- ocular vessels, signs of obstruction to the circulation. In doubtful cases the cyst should be punctured and some of its contents drawn off. The fluid of an echinococcus cyst is watery, clear, and contains a large proportion of chloride of sodium, and a mere trace of albumen. Hooklets may be, but are not constantly, found on microscopic examination. The peculiar laminated character of the true cyst-wall after removal clears up any doubt as to its nature, even in cases, not uncommon, in which no daughter cysts or scolices can be found. Cysticercus of the orbit is extremely rare. In the few recorded cases the tumour has developed in the anterior part of the orbit, and has presented the ordinary characters of a cystic growth. Two other rare forms of cyst of the orbit may be referred to—namely, hygromata, which are thought to arise in the bursse of the ocular muscles, and blood cysts. The latter are, in some instances at least, dermoid cysts into which hfemorrhage has occurred. The cystic tumours of the orbit are all benign growths, and rarely dangerous to life. Some forms may extend through the walls of the orbit to the intracranial cavity, and in this way lead to a fatal issue. Suppuration in an orbital cyst may be followed by septic menin- gitis and death. Vascular Tumours of the Orbit.—The vascular new growths met with in the orbit are capillary and cavernous angioma, and lymphangioma.^ The latter variety is excessively rare; about four undoubted cases have been recorded. Capillary angioma or njevus is a congenital growth which apparently does not originate in the orbit, but extends to it from the skin of the lids or face. It is sometimes associated with hypertrophy of fatty tissue, and to such a combination the term angioma lipomatodes has been given. Cavernous angioma visually originates in the orbit. The tumour is often deeply seated, of slow growth, and forms a mass which, though soft at first, becomes much harder in the later stages from an increase in the connective tissue in and around it. Vision is not often affected, but blindness due to atrophy of the optic nerve is occasionally met with. Pain is not a prominent symptom. The sexes are equally liable, and the disease may appear at any age. The etiology of cavernous angioma is doubtful. It is probably sometimes congenital. In a few instances there has been a definite history of injury preceding the development of the tumour. It is frequently, but not invariably, situated within the funnel formed by the recti muscles, and, like a tumour of the optic nerve, displaces the eyeball directly forwards. The tumour is often encapsuled, and hence easy of removal. In addition to the ordinary signs of orbital tumour, cavernous angiomata present certain characteristics. They are variable in volume, diminishing tinder pressure, and increasing when there is venous obstruction, as in crying or stooping. They often show spontaneous pulsa- tion, but have no bruit or thrill. As the tumour increases in size it extends forwards, and may become visible as a bluish mass through the skin, and dilated vessels may appear in the eyelids. Treatment of Tumours of the Orbit.—Complete removal of the tumour is the only treatment applicable to malignant gi-owths. Unfortu- nately, in many cases of sarcoma and carcinoma the growth is either not primarily orbital, or has extended beyond the limits of the orbit before the patient comes under observation, and its complete removal is then impossible. Small encapsuled growths, and tumours of the optic nerve, can occasionally be removed without sacrificing the eyeball. Two methods may be employed to attain this result. In the first, an incision is made through the conjunctiva on the temporal side of the eyeball, the external rectus muscle separated from the globe, and the eye rotated forcibly inwards. After removal of the growth the eye is rolled back into position and the rectus muscle reattached. In the second (or Kronlein's) method, an osteoplastic ^ Aneurysmal formations are considered under a separate heading.