372 PEDICULOSIS sponged with a carbolic acid lotion, 1 in 40, as follows:—A small portion of the hair is taken up with one hand, and a sponge soaked in the lotion drawn along it with the other, so as to thoro\ighly come into contact with the nits, and so on until the whole of the hair has been dealt with ; or the hair may be spread out on a table, the patient sitting on a stool. The nits can then be combed out. Simultaneously the ung. hydrarg. ammon. dil. is used as already de- scribed. Acetic acid or vinegar is also good for getting rid of the nits. Ordinary petroleum lamp-oil is very effectual, soaked freely into the head, the above ointment being used for the crusted lesions. The draw- backs of petroleum are its smell and its inflam- mability. The latter is a very real danger. It should, therefore, never be applied in proximity to a lighted lamp, etc. It is safest to apply it during the daytime. Oily bodies kill lice by obstructing the tracheae, and thus preventing respiration. Other remedies are used, but the above treat- ment properly carried out will cure the condi- tion. Le mieux est quelque fois I'ennemi du bien. Pediculosis Corporis vel vbstimentorum This disease is usually observed in the old, neglected, badly nourished, and cachetic. It is frequently contracted in common lodging-houses by people who have come down in the world; in some cases by sharing an old person's bed. Symptoms.—Although this pediculus inhabits the clothes, it feeds on the skin, and in this way occasions great irritation and much scratching of the parts within reach of the nails. The pediculus prefers the neighbourhood of the neck-band of the underclothing, probably to get a better supply of air, and it is about the back of the neck and the shoulders that the scratching is most marked. In chronic cases, such as are to be seen in poor-law infirmaries, the constant irritation and scratching leads to pigmentation, which may be very extensive and deep in colour, with thickening of the skin, the so-called " vagabond's disease," common among tramps. The pruritic sensations are worse at night, and once started, may reflexly involve any part of the body. Urticaria, pus inoculation, furuncles, and even abscesses, are the complications met with. Pyrexia has sometimes been observed (as high as 106•4°), and Payne thinks this may be due to a poison inserted by the insect. Diagnosis. — The chief points are the age and appearance of the patient, and the distribution of the scratch - marks about the neck and shoulders. An examination of the under-linen, especially about the neck-band, will reveal the pediculus, unless the vest or shirt is a clean one put on for the occasion. Tilbury Fox insisted on the importance of the minute hsemorrhagic speck which occurred on the skin as a result of the insect's mode of feeding. Radclifl"e-Crocker is inclined to think it is only the excrement of the insect, a very likely thing, considering it feeds on blo(jd, and that when it sucks up its meal the fluid is driven about with such force as to press out the contents of the lower bowel. Dubreuilh and Beille state they have never been able to see this " hajmorrhagic speck." Differential Diagnosis.—This is a matter of some importance, as there is a condition known as pruritus senilis, associated with degenerative changes of the skin, which might lead to difficulty ; but in such cases little is to be seen about the skin in the way of scratch-marks. To avoid errors, every case should be taken on its merits, and the positive signs of pediculosis relied upon. Pruritus of the body may be a marked symptom in some morbid nerve con- ditions, such as locomotor ataxy, and also in chronic opium-eaters. When pigmentation of the skin is present in a marked degree, the question of Addison's disease may arise. Greenhow, Besnier, and Thibierge have seen the mucous membranes pigmented in so-called "vagabond's disease," a point which must be borne in mind, and which favours Besnier's view that the pigmenta- tion is not due to scratching. Urticaria may be due to a variety of causes, one of which is pediculosis, which would have to be excluded. Where there is doubt, the urine should be examined for albumin and sugar, and the alimentary tract overhauled. When the scratching has been vigorous and chronic the patient may present pigmentation, supei'ficial scarring, and scattered crusted sores from pus inoculation, so as to suggest syphilis to some minds. The absence of the confirmatory signs of the latter, with positive signs of pedi- culosis, would clinch the diagnosis. Of course, syphilis and parasites may be associated. In the same way, scabies may be a complica- tion. The itch difi"ers from pediculosis in the localisation and distribution of the scratch- marks ; in the former the hands and wrists are usually affected {vide "Scabies"). In some instances patients fancy they have pediculi. This condition of mind is a pediculo- phobia, compai'able with what is observed in syphilophobes. It is very difficult to convince them that no parasites are present. Exception- ally, the mental attitude may become stereo- typed, a pediculosis cerebri, with delusions, and sometimes ideas of persecution. In one case there were auditory hallucinations. The patient heard voices saying he was lousy. These cases generally end in the madhouse. In other instances, again, a patient may have been delivered from the parasites, but will remain convinced that he still has them. These cases also may drift into a pediculosis cerebri condition.