27 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA "Erythromelalgia" (Raynaud's disease), "Meta- tarsalgia," and "Visceral Neuralgia" associated with various organs. Pathology.—Nothing definite is known as to the pathology of neuralgia; but there are several points (the radiation of pain into adjacent nerve regions during an attack, and the reflex char- acter of the pain in certain cases) which favour the view that the seat of the disease is in sensory cerebral or spinal nerve-cells. Oppenheim thinks that it is probable that it may be caused by fine nutritional changes in the nerve, in its sheath, and in the nervi nervorum. Even in cases of many years' duration microscopical examination has revealed nothing. In a few cases of trigeminal neuralgia slight vascular, sclerotic, and degenerative changes have been found in the nerve-fibres or in the Gasserian ganglion, but in other cases the cells of this ganglion (examined by Nissl's method) have been normal. The importance of these slight changes is very doubtful. Dana has recorded endarteritis of the vessels of the nerve-sheath; Putnam, endarteritis and sclerosis of the endoneurium; Horsley, Rose, Krause, Saenger, sclerotic changes in the Gas- serian ganglion with degenerative changes in its cells and fibres. Diagnosis.—Important points in the diagnosis of neuralgia are the migratory and intermittent character of the pain, and the absence of evidence of any organic lesion of the nerves or central nervous system, even in cases of long duration. Except in diabetic patients bilateral pain is very rarely due to neuralgia. In neuritis the pain is usually continuous, though exacerbations occur ; swelling of the nerve can often be felt; soon anaesthesia and paresis, or paralysis with atrophy, develop. In neuralgia the pain occurs in paroxysms; no swelling of the nerve can be felt; anaBsthesia and paralysis do not develop. If the nerve can be palpated, the whole or a large portion of it is tender from the first in neuritis. In neuralgia tender points may be found, but at first the nerve-trunk is not tender between the attacks. Careful general examination of the patient for indications of organic nervous diseases or of hysteria is most important. Pain of a neuralgic character is often due to the pressure of a tumour on a nerve or nerve- root, or to implication of nerves in other dis- eased processes. Such secondary neuralgic pain may be produced in the limbs by tabes, or other organic diseases of the spinal cord or spinal nerves; in the head by cerebral tumour, aneurysm, etc. at the base of the skull, implicat- ing the fifth nerve. But usually other symptoms can be detected which show that the neuralgic pain is secondary, and that the case ought not to be regarded as one of true neuralgia. Visceral referred pain is distinguished, according to Head, by the presence of pain over areas not corresponding to those of definite peripheral nerves, and by the presence of tenderness of superficial structures. It is always important to inquire carefully into the etiology of all cases of neuralgia in order to obtain indications for treatment. Prognosis.—In some cases (minor form) the disease continues for a short period only; in others (major form) it may continue for many years. The disease does not directly cause death. The prognosis is worse the older the patient, the longer the duration of the affec- tion, and the less it is related to any of the well - recognised causes of the disease. The epileptiform variety of trigeminal neuralgia is of all forms the most obstinate and difficult to relieve. Medical Treatment.—When neuralgia is clearly secondary to another affection, treatment should be directed to the primary disease. When the teeth are diseased, and an attack of neuralgic pain is brought on by touching them, it may be desirable to have one or more teeth removed. But it is to be remembered, that though benefit is sometimes derived thereby, on the other hand often no improvement follows. The treatment of associated diseases of the frontal sinus or nasal mucous membrane sometimes has a beneficial effect on the neuralgia. When severe ansemia or chlorosis is present iron should be given, and the addition of arsenic is of service. In neuralgia associated with malaria quinine is indicated; in rheumatic cases, sodium salicylate ; in syphilitic patients benefit is often derived from mercury and iodides; and in gouty patients, treatment directed to primary disease is advisable. A suitable diet should be given when neuralgia is associated with diabetes; sodium salicylate is worthy of a trial. Very often there is no clear indication of a primary affection to which the neuralgia is secondary. General treatment should not be neglected. The food should be nutritious and abundant; a mixed diet is best. Benefit has been derived by discontinuing a strictly vegetarian diet. When the patient is thin, fatty food, butter, cream, cod-liver oil are of service. The bowels should be kept regular, if necessary, by mild purgatives. The relief of constipation has occasionally diminished the pain. In some cases rest is of great service; in other cases, when the patient's occupation has been seden- tary, life in the open air as much as possible is beneficial. Innumerable drugs have been given internally, mostly with the object of relieving pain. When the pain is repeatedly relieved it often dis- appears entirely. Butyl chloral hydrate is one of the most valuable drugs we possess for the relief of trigeminal neuralgia. It may be given in 5 or 10 grain doses, dissolved in 20 to 40 minims of glycerine, and water or orange-flower