PARALYSIS 322 most common is stated by Gowers to be between the seventh and eighth year; many cases manifest their tirst symptoms between twelve and sixteen, and a few between the latter age and twenty-five. Some cases have shown symp- toms as early as two years of age. Onset.—The onset of the disease is most gradual, the first symptom to appear being usually ataxia, then the speech becomes affected, while later the inco-ordination of the arms develops. The curvature of the spine and de- formity of the feet are generally later develop- ments, although in some cases they have been the first symptoms noticed. The course of the disease is most uncertain; at times it seems to advance rapidly, while at others it becomes stationary, and may remain so for years; and that some remission of symp- toms occurs is certain from the way in which anaesthesia will often pass off, but such remis- sions are never so marked as those which are often seen in disseminated sclerosis. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptom in the disease is the inco-ordination that the patient exhibits when attempting to walk. In slight cases he stands with the legs wide apart, reels slightly, raising the foot rather higher than necessary, and bringing it down with a slap on the floor, while in extreme cases it may be so marked that he crosses the legs from side to side in order to save himself from falling. Even with patients who are no longer able to walk the ataxia is well shown by making them attempt to place the heel of one foot on the knee of the opposite leg. A patient, who is ataxic in his gait, will often stand steadilj' with the eyes shut, but in other cases the unsteadiness is markedly increased when the eyes are closed. The ataxia of the arms is usually less marked than that in the legs, and it is often only obvious when the patients attempt to feed themselves. In children the frequent stumbling in walking and clumsy manner in which they grasp an object, and in which they feed themselves, is often attributed to carelessness or confused with chorea. Apart from the inco-ordination exhibited on the performance of voluntary acts, there are almost constant "choreiform" movements or static ataxia, as designated by Friedreich, while the patient is sitting or standing. If such a patient be observed while standing, various groups of muscles in the thighs and legs are seen to be in constant movement in order to maintain the equilibrium. In the sitting pos- ture the muscles of the trunk and shoulders are in similar action, and the head, which is often held forward, has an almost constant nodding movement, while the arms are similarly affected. So marked a featui'e is this movement in some cases that the affection is mistaken for chorea of a chronic type. It is worthy of note that the ataxia is frequently worse after rest and better after a certain amount of exercise. Ocular Symptoms.—Nystagmus is almost a constant symptom—it may be present while the eyes are at rest, but is accentuated when they are turned to the right or left; paralysis of the ocular muscles is rare, but does occur. The pupils are generally equal, and react well to light and on accommodation ; occasionally, how- ever, they fail to respond to light, and, as Sir William Gowers points out, when this sign is present juvenile tabes should be suspected, especially if the pupil defect is associated with optic atrophy, for optic atrophy is said not to occur in Friedreich's disease. Vision is said to be occasionally defective. Deformities of the spine and extremities are always most characteristic. The most common position assumed by the foot is that of pes cavus: the dorsum of the foot is arched, and the plantar surface is often so contracted as to form a fold across the sole of the foot; the big toe is drawn back, being flexed at the junction of the phal- anges and extended at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Although this is the common position, talipes equinus and equino-varus also occur in about one-fifth of the cases, according to Griffiths. The prominence of the extensor proprius hallucis is often an early and marked sign, and later the tibialis posticus and the peroneus longus tendons stand out behind the internal and external malleoli respectively. The smaller toes also are in a position of extension. The foot as a whole is dropped. The deformity of the foot is explained by Duchenne as due to the weakness or paralysis of the interossei combined with weakness of the dorsi-flexors of the ankle; another explanation, however, is that it is due to an increased muscular tone in the peronei, tibialis posticus, and extensor muscles of the toes secondary to the involvement of the pyra- midal system, and this is probably correct, for it has been shown by Collier that after affection of the pyramid in cases of hemiplegia or para- plegia the foot tends to assume a position of pes cavus. Deformities of the hands have also been de- scribed, but are comparatively rare ; that which is most frequently seen is the 7nain en griffe, and when this occurs it is probably due to the weakness of the interossei and contraction of the unopposed extensors. Curvature of the spine is very commonly present and may be extremely marked. It is usually situated in the dorsal region, with the concavity to the left, the centi-al point of the curve being situated between the sixth and ninth dorsal spines; there is also not infre- quently some kyphosis at the level of the upper dorsal vertebrae. In most cases no alteration in sensation can be detected either to touch, pain, heat, or cold, and the sense of position is normal, and this