217 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE not the mesosalpinx, and burrows as far as the perineum or upwards into the abdomen. Beyea has collected notes on twenty-one cases. In his own case the patient was thirty-eight; both her ovaries had been removed twelve years previously, the catamenia ceasing at once. He enucleated the dermoid from the right broad hgament, but hsemorrhage could not be con- trolled until he amputated the uterus above the cervix. The patient recovered. Page of Newcastle operated on a woman aged forty- seven ; the cyst reached to the umbilicus, and lay behind the rectum. He made a semilunar incision six inches long, its centre lying midway between the anus and coccyx. After extracting hair and putty-like material. Page successfully enucleated the cyst. Since that operation (1891) several tumours of that class have been removed through a perineal incision, and several, including Beyea's case, by abdominal section. Page relates that he was able to pass his hand and the greater part of his forearm through the perineal wound into the cavity of the cyst. Primary Ovarian Pregnancy The possibility of this condition is now ad- mitted by several authorities, who till recently insisted that all ectopic pregnancies were prim- arily tubal. Van Tussenbroek, after careful examination of an ovary removed by Kouwer, found that a foetal sac of the size of a cob-nut lay on its surface. This sac held a minute foetus with amnion and chorion complete. British and foreign authorities who have ex- amined this specimen agree with Van Tussen- broek's interpretation of its nature. The rupture of the sac caused severe intraperitoneal haemorrhage, though the pregnancy was under the sixth week. Patenko's case, described many years earlier, was probably genuine. Anning and Littlewood's case, reported in January 1901, is of high clinical interest. The patient under- went operation for rupture of the sac. About two pints of fluid blood and clot were removed, and an ovum no bigger than a large pea was detected amidst the clot. There was a rent in the right ovary; into this the ovum and its sac exactly fitted; the corresponding tube was normal. The patient recovered. The ovary is preserved in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Another authentic case was reported in 1900 by Octavius Croft of Leeds. The sac and its contents, found entire, were removed by abdominal section; it ruptured during extraction and much haemor- rhage ensued, difficult to check; the patient died within a few days. The sac before rupture contained an ovum of about the fourth month with placenta, membranes, and amniotic fluid; the relations of the sac were those of an ovarian cyst with a short pedicle; the Fallopian tube was healthy. Hastings Gilford's alleged case is still under examination. Thus it seems evident that primary ovarian pregnancy may occur, and that as a rule it is most probably arrested at a very early stage (Van Tussenbroek, Anning and Littlewood), yet may continue at least to the fourth month (Croft). The bleeding from the rupture may be very severe, even very early in pregnancy (Kouwer, Anning and Littlewood), whilst when gestation is more advanced and the sac is capacious, its connections are full of large vessels, so that severe hsemorrhage will occur when it is extirpated (Croft). Some cases re- ported many years ago as " ruptured ovarian apoplexy" may have been primary ovarian pregnancies. When the pregnancy is advanced it is not easy to prove that it was primarily ovarian. If the corresponding tube be normal, it does not follow that the ovum did not originally develop in its canal, for when the tube expels an ovum out of its ostium it rapidly regains its natural appearance. The ovary is occasionally flattened out widely over the wall of a big extra-uterine sac, but that is no proof that the sac arose from the interior of that organ. {See also " Ectopic Gestation," vol. iii. pp. 13, 22). Ovariin and Ovarine. — Prepara- tions made from the ovaries of the cow and the pig, recommended in cases in which the ovarian secretion is believed to be defective or absent, e.g. after an artificial menopause from removal of the ovaries, etc. See also Varium. OvariO-. — in compound words ovario- (Lat. ovarium, ovary) means relating to the ovaries; e.g. ovariocele (hernia of the ovary), ovariocyesis (ectopic ovarian pregnancy), ovario- epilepsy, ovario-toxines, etc. Ovariotomy.—Removal of an ovary or of the ovaries by abdominal or (less often) vaginal section ; the organ or organs so removed are generally in a markedly diseased state {e.g. cystic degeneration), the term noj'mal ovari- otomy being given to those cases in which the ovaries are removed although showing no morbid naked-eye changes; it is better, however, to restrict the term ovariotomy to operations for the removal of diseased ovaries, and to give that of oophorectomy to the cases in which the glands in an apparently healthy state are removed in order to bring about a menopause. See Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovariotomy). Ovaritis.—Inflammation of the ovaries ; oophoritis. See Ovaries, Diseases op {Inflame mation). Ovary. See Ovaries, Diseases of, and cross-references. Overcrowd i ng". — Overcrowding, espe- cially the occupation of one-roomed houses by whole families, has a prejudicial effect upon