329 PARALYSIS appearance of true organic disease upon a functional background. Speaking generally of functional paralysis, the age, sex, and tempera- ment of the patient must be given weight. The history of previous manifestations of hysteria and the adequacy of cause to result in the production of the symptoms must be considered. In functional hemiplegia the absence of the usual causes for apoplexy (morbis cordis), etc., and the absence of conjugate deviation, true convulsion, coma, and aphasia at the onset are important. Crossed amblyopia, complete hemi- analgesia, and the occurrence of contracture soon ofter the onset, are the most important positive signs that a hemiplegia is functional. Absence of facial involvement is a useful negative sign. The importance of the plantar reflex and of Babinski's sign have been already dwelt on. The diagnosis of functional paraplegia is more difficult, since it is closely simulated by the early stages of one type of disseminated sclerosis. The most important positive functional signs are contradictory muscular phenomena, the gait, contractures and anaesthesia of greater extent than the paralysis, its upper limit being a circular line round the limb (almost the only other condition in which " stocking" and " glove " anaesthesia exists is peripheral neuritis —the anaesthesia is here always incomplete, always of smaller area than the paralysis, and is usually accompanied by pain). The Argyll-Robertson pupil, ocular paralysis, optic atrophy, incontinence of sphincters, girdle pain, alteration of faradic excitability, loss of knee-jerk, and the extensor response in the plantar reflex, are signs, the presence of one of which alone excludes uncomplicated func- tional disease. Paralysis Ag^itanS. See Paralysis {Paralysis with Tremor or Ataxy). Paralysis, Bell's. See Facial Nerve, Paralysis of. Paralysis, Bulbar. See Paralysis {Bulbar Paralysis). Paralysis, Cruveilhier's. See Paralysis {Chronic Spinal Mioscular Atrophy). Paralysis, Erb'S. See Paralysis {Spastic Parapilegia). Paralysis, infantile. See Paralysis {Spastic, Poliomyelitis). Paralysis, insanity associated with. Paralytic Insanity .... 329 Insanity associated with Gross Disease OF THE Brain ..... 329 Post-apoplectic Insanity . . . 330 Organic Dementia . . .331 Gross disease of the brain, and of its hard and soft coverings, is a frequent cause of mental aberration. In infancy and the early stages of life it arrests mental development and produces various forms of idiocy and imbecility, associated or not with epilepsy. Degenerations of the brain and of its membranes also occur frequently as secondary symptoms in many forms of in- sanity. In the present article consideration is limited to those grosser tissue changes which are the primary cause of insanity in adult life. First among these to be dealt with are sclerotic aff'ections of the neuroglia and blood- vessels of the brain. It must be admitted that our knowledge of the etiology and symptoms of cerebral sclerosis is not so accurate as could be wished. This is probably because many of the diseases referred to are comparatively rare, and because their symptoms, even when recognised, are often vague and indefinite. Sclerosis of the brain is of two kinds, primary and secondary. Secondary sclerosis, or atrophy, is consequent upon some previous lesion, such as haemorrhage, and need not be separately alluded to. Primary sclerosis may be divided into two classes : (a) disseminated or insvilar, and {b) diff'use sclerosis. Disseminated sclerosis is comparatively rarely met in association with mental disease. In those cases, however, in which the invasion of the brain by the sclerotic masses is extensive there is observed, in addition to the physical symptoms of progressive muscular weakness, jerky inco-ordination and nystagmus, the follow- ing mental symptoms : progressive mental weak ness, loss of intelligence and disturbance of the thought processes, but without any other active or positive symptoms of insanity. Gradually the symptoms end in dementia, with stupidity and loss of will power. Some cases may exhibit recurrent attacks of depression or excitement, which are, however, probably coincidental, and not connected with the disease. Certain cases may present such a striking resemblance to general paralysis as to render the diiferential diagnosis a matter of considerable difficulty, but the character of the tremor, of the speech affection, of the mental symptoms, and the presence of nystagmus, is usually sufficient to determine the diff"erence between the two diseases. Our knowledge of diffuse sclerosis is scanty, and the groups of diseases known under that name are badly defined. It occurs as a primary condition in children who are the subjects of congenital syphilis. It has also, according to Gowers, been observed, though rarely, in chronic alcoholism and associated with insular or dis- seminated sclerosis. Kraepelin and Homen describe the symptoms of diffuse sclerosis of the brain due to hereditary syphilis. The disease begins early in youth with vertigo, headache, unsteadiness of gait, and progressive deteriora-