126 NOSE—FOREIGN BODIES, ETC. simple solution of continuity in the dura mater lining the anterior fossa of the skuU. Treatment.—No remedy has been suggested for this affection, and if possible it is advisable to refrain from all intranasal treatment to avoid the risk of infection being conveyed to the meninges. NOSO-.—In compound words noso- as a prefix signifies relating to disease (Gr voVos, sickness); e.g. nosopoetic or nosopoietic (patho- genic, causing disease), and nosotraphic (en- couraging disease). NoSOCOmia,!. — Relating to a hospital {nosocome, a now obsolete word, signified a hospital). NoSOg^GnesiS.—The origin of diseases. NoSOgfra.phy.—The description of dis- eases in a systematic manner. NoSOlOg'y.—^The science of the investiga- tion of diseases, including nosography. NoSOnri£l,nia..—A morbid fear of disease, or a delusion felt by the patient that he is ill when he is not; hypochondriasis. IMOSOnomy.'—-The nomenclature of dis- eases, or " the doctrine of the natural laws by which diseases occur." Nosophen.—-An antiseptic powder, an iodine compound of phenolphthalein (tetraiodo- phenolphthalein), which has been used as a substitute for iodoform; it is tasteless and odourless, and is insoluble in water and acids but soluble (to some extent) in alkalies and in ether. Dose—5 to 8 grs. It is most often used externally. Nosophobia^! — A form of monomania, in which the patient is morbidly apprehensive of some disease (from which he is not really suffering) and takes the strictest precautions against it and for its treatment. Nostalgfia,.—Homesickness (Gr. vocttos, home-return, and aA.yos, pain) of a severe type; in an exaggerated form it is termed nostomania. Nostras!a. See Nostalgia. Nostril. See Nose. Nostrum.—A drug or medicine, usually of the nature of a quack remedy; the word contains the idea (Lat. noster, our) that the medicine is prepared by the person recommend- ing it. Notaig^ia.—Pain in the back (Gr. VUITOV, back, aXyos, pain), usually without inflammatory symptoms. Notch.—A V-shaped indentation or de- pression or nick in the margin or border of a structure, e.g. the acetabular or cotyloid notch in the innominate bone, and the suprascapular notch in the upper border of the scapula. Notencephai us.—A teratological type in which the posterior part of the cranial vault is absent and the exposed brain rests upon the nape of the neck. Nothnag^el's Symptom.—A type of facial paralysis, in which the motor defect is more marked in connection with emotional conditions than with voluntary movements. Nothnag^ei'S Test.—It has been ob- served experimentally that a crystal of chloride of sodium placed upon the exposed intestine of a rabbit causes ascending peristalsis, and it has been thought that the circumstance might be used as a means of ascertaining the direction of any piece of bowel involved in abdominal operations in the human subject. Notifiable.—A term applied to a disease [e.g. an infectious fever) which should be made known to some authority by notification. Notification. — The reporting of an infectious disease by the medical attendant or the nearest relative of the patient suffering therefrom to some authority, such as the medi- cal officer of health. A special form of certi- ficate (supplied gratis by the Local Authority) must be used, and a small fee (2s. 6d. for cases in private practice, and Is. for cases in a public institution) is paid to the medical practitioner reporting ; the penalty for neglect of notifica- tion is a fine of 40s. The notifiable diseases are smallpox, cholera, diphtheria, membranous croup, erysipelas, scarlet fever, typhus fever, typhoid fever, relapsing fever, continued fever, and puerperal fever, and any other disease {e.g. measles or tuberculosis) which the Local Authority may add to the list. The advan- tages of notification are obvious : it gives early indication of the presence of a disease which may become epidemic, it gives a clue to the cause of the same, it indicates in what areas sanitary conditions are defective, and it permits of speedy (compulsory or voluntary) removal of patients to fever hospitals. See Vital Statistics {Notification of Sickness); Infectiox {Prophylaxis); Lung, Tuberculosis {Treatment, Prophylactic Public Measures, Notification) ; Scarlet Fever {Treatment, Limitation, Notifi- cation). NotOChord.—The primitive rod or bar developed from the hypoblast or entoderm which forms the skeletal axis of the embryo, and round which, at a later date, the vertebral column develops. See Embryology, Human {Third Week); Fcetus and Ovum, Develop- ment of {Segmentation, etc.).