ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 186 recorded. Occasionally more than one tumour is found in an orbit. These tumours are gener- ally of a roughly hemispherical shape, and have a wide base of attachment to the orbital wall; occasionally they are globular in form, and attached by a narrow pedicle; the surface is usually uneven and often nodular. Exostosis of the orbit is a very slow-growing tumour, sometimes lasting for years before pro- ducing noticeable symptoms. It is in itself painless, but may induce pain by pressure on nerves or other structures. The direction of gTowth is chiefly into the orbit and towards the surface, but extension backwards and upwards is by no means unknown, and occasionally in- vasion of the intracranial cavity takes place. Nothing certain is known as to the etiology of these tumours. It is not improbable that they grow from residues of embryonic cartilage. The diagnosis is, as a rule, easy; but if the exostosis is at the inner, or inner and upper part of the orbit, it may be mistaken for a distended ethmoidal or frontal sinus, over which a shell of bone still remains. The latter, how- ever, is not so hard as an exostosis, and a sense of fluctuation can nearly always be obtained. If necessary, puncture or attempted puncture should be employed to clear up any doubt. Hyperostosis of the orbital walls is extremely rare. It may lead to great distortion of the bony walls, and the shape of the orbit may thus be entirely altered. Lipoma of the orbit has been described, but is very unusual, if indeed it ever occurs as a primary growth. Its characters do not differ from those of fatty tumours elsewhere, and the symptoms to which it gives rise result from mechanical displacement of orbital structures, or pressure upon them. Enchondroma of the orbit is almost unknown. The few cases which have been reported are open to question, and are certainly not examples of pure enchondroma. Fibroma of the orbit—that is, a benign fibrous tumour—is very rare. A few cases have been placed on record, but there is generally a suspicion that such growths belong to the fibro- sarcomata, and are therefore malignant. Plexiform neuroma of the orbit is also very unusual, although this form of new growth in the eyelids is not so uncommon. The growth, which is probably congenital, occupies the upper and outer part of the orbit in the neighbourhood of the lacrymal gland, whence it may spread extensively into the orbit and to the temporal fossa. It forms a slowly-growing, painless mass, which may be so firm to the touch as to simu- late sarcoma or carcinoma. Its diagnosis with- out an exploratory incision is difficult. After removal of the mass a further growth may develop in the same side. Myxoma of the sheath of the optic nerve is another of the benign tumours arising in the orbit. This form of growth is met with chiefly in children and young adults. It develops slowly, generally quite painlessly, and at an early stage gives rise to defect of sight, and later to its complete loss. The eyeball is pro- truded directly forwards, or forwards and slightly downwards, and its movements are little, if at all, impaired. These two features generally enable an optic-nerve tumour to be distinguished from other orbital growths. Difficulty in dia- gnosis will arise, however, in those rare in- stances in which a sarcoma develops within the funnel formed by the recti muscles. Cystic Tumours of the Orbit. — The most frequent are the congenital dermoid cysts, which result from the invagination of a portion of the epidermis at an early period of development. Like dermoid tumours in other parts of the body, their walls have a structure similar to that of normal skin, the epidermis being placed internally. The cyst wall possesses the usual appendages of skin—namely, hair and sebaceous glands, and sometimes sweat glands. The con- tents of these cysts are composed of accumulated secretion from the skin glands, desquamated epithelium, and usually large numbers of hairs. Occasionally teeth have been found attached to the wall, or free in the cavity. In some in- stances, instead of a sebaceous material, the cyst contains an oily or honey-like fluid. These tumours, which are generally unilocular, are situated in the anterior part of the orbit, most commonly near the nasal wall. They gi-ow slowly, and may attain a considerable size. They produce no symptoms, except such as are due to displacement of orbital structures. Their tendency is to protrude anteriorly, and they can usually be easily seen and felt through the skin of the eyelid as round, slightly movable, elastic growths. The diagnosis is not, as a rule, difficult, but in infants the variety of tumour to be next described may be mistaken for a dermoid cyst. This error in diagnosis, if it led to operative treatment, would be very serious. Meningocele or encephalocele of the orbit is a congenital cystic tiunour, the wall of which is formed by a protrusion of dura mater into the orbit. The sac thus formed may contain only cerebro-spinal fluid (meningocele), or in addition brain substance (encephalocele). This variety of tumour is most frequently situated at the inner upper part of the orbit, the aperture through which the hernia occurs corresponding to the suture between the ethmoid and frontal bones. The growth is fluctuating, covered by healthy skin, and by pressure can be reduced in volume, though such pressure may give rise to unpleasant cerebral symptoms. If large and superficial, it shows cardiac and respiratory oscillations, as do the unclosed fontanelles. Orbital meningocele is usually unilateral, and rapidly increases in size; the subjects of it seldom live many weeks.