PANCREAS, DISEASES OF 252 made out; but as the recti are rigid because of the pain and tenderness in the epigastrium, it can usually only be discovered under anesthesia. Loss of flesh and strength are well-marked symptoms in all cases. Vomiting may in some cases be absent, but there are usually a want of appetite and flatulent dyspepsia, and always a sense of fulness and weight at the epigastrium for some time after food. Jaundice is not necessarily present at first, though it is usually present at some stage of the disease, and is often well marked ; this is especially the case in about 62 per cent of cases in which the common bile-duct passes through the head of the pancreas, whereas when the bile-duct is not embraced by the pancreas, as in 38 per cent of cases, jaundice is usually absent or only slight in degree. As was pointed out some years ago by Dr. Walker of Peterborough, the stools are white even when the pancreatic fluid alone is absent from the intestine. Diarrhoea is often present, and the stools are offensive and fatty. Albuminuria is common, and glycosui'ia may occur, but the latter is probably only present in cases where the whole gland is affected. Fever may be absent, but in some cases the temperature runs a hectic course, rising in the evening and falling in the morning. This is especially the case where ague-like paroxysms occur. These varieties probably depend on the character of the infection in the pancreatic and bile ducts, and also on the amount of obstruction present. Where jaundice is present the pulse may be abnormally slow ; and even when the temperature is raised the pulse-rate is not much elevated, though the character of the pulse may be poor. In the later stages, especially if the disease be associated with jaundice, hfemorrhages from the nose and the bowel, vomiting of blood, and petechise in the skin show marked blood degeneration, and death ensues from increasing weakness. In the more chronic cases, especially when there is contraction of the head of the pancreas, there will be found a tumour formed by the distended gall-bladder, just as there is in cancer of the head of the pancreas, for which disease chronic interstitial pancreatitis is then apt to be mistaken and a hopeless prognosis given. In such cases the gall-bladder will be found to be distended with mucus, the bile which first filled it having become gradually absorbed, the back- ward pressure having prevented fresh bile from entering the ducts. This may occur so gradually as to be painless, and then the gall-bladder is free from tenderness, which is seldom the case when the distension is due to gall-stones. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of chronic inter- stitial pancreatitis has to be made from gall- stones in the common duct, cancer of the head of the pancreas, cancer of the liver and bile- ducts, and chronic catarrh of the bile-ducts. From gall-stones the diagnosis is of no great importance, since the two diseases are often associated and the treatment is the same; nevertheless, it may be possible to make a diagnosis of gall-stones by the sequence of long antecedent history of spasms without jaundice, then l3y a severe attack of pain followed by jaundice, and after a time by recurring pains with increase of the icterus associated with ague-like attacks. The absence of tumour is more common in gall-stones than in chronic pancreatitis, though in the latter the gall-bladder may be found contracted at times. Although in pancreatitis there is usually less pain, at times the paroxysmal attacks may be equally as severe as in gall-stone seizures. The tenderness in the latter case, however, will be over the gall-bladder, and in the former at the middle line where the swollen gland can sometimes be felt, especially if the examination is made under ansesthesia; moreover, the radiating pain in gall-stones is towards the right, and in pan- creatitis towards the left or to the midscapular region. In cancer of the head of the pancreas the onset is usually gradual and painless, and the disease generally occurs later in life, usually after forty years of age. It is preceded by general failure of health, and when the jaundice supervenes it becomes absolute and unvarying, and is nearly always associated with a tumour of the gall-bladder, which generally attains a large size and shows no tenderness on manipula- tion. The liver enlarges from the biliary stasis, but there are no nodules to be felt. In some cases of cancer of the head of the pancreas a hard nodular tumour may be found on the inner side of the distended gall-bladder. Extremely rapid loss of weight and strength with increasing ansemia, but without ague-like seizures, are very characteristic, and it is common for there to bo an absence of fever with a slow, feeble pulse, and later, ascites with oedema of the lower limbs. Cancer of the head of the pancreas may, however, be associated with infective cholangitis, when there will be ague-like attacks and continued fever. Cancer of the common bile-duct is rare, but when present may resemble, and is usually associated with, gall-stones. In cancer of the liver, the irregular enlargement, the nodular feel, the rapid deterioration of health, the less intense jaundice, and the absence of fever and paroxysmal pains will usually en- able a diagnosis to be made. Chronic catarrhal jaundice is usually due to interstitial pancreatitis, but if it be really catarrhal cholangitis there is an absence of symptoms, except jaundice and some loss of flesh. The entire absence of pain and fever with the relief by treatment usually gives rise to little difficulty in establishing a diagnosis. In some cases of cancer associated with interstitial panci-eatitis a diagnosis will only be made by an exploratory operation ; then the enlargement of the pancreas can be readily felt, or if the tumour be small the head of the