INFLAMMATION 85 NOSE—CHKONIC " vasomotor rhinitis " is applied to the disease. The diagnosis between true thickenings (hyper- trophies so-called) and erection is made by means of cocaine, which reduces the latter and not the former. The thickenings also often appear distinctly papillary, and can be moved about with a probe, e.g. on the lower margin of the inferior turbinated body. When seen from behind the inferior turbinated body often has a mulberry-like (moriform) aspect. The diagnosis can also be completed by palpation of the choanse Thickenings at the back of the septum are not unusual; on the floor near the front they are most common, in my experience, in cases of a vasomotor character. Complications and Results. ■— The naso- pharynx, the pharynx, and even the larynx are often also affected, partly owing to the same source of irritation acting on them, partly from the mouth-breathing, which is naturally present when the nasal obstruction is at all marked. Various reflex nasal phenomena oc- cur, such as sneezing and watery discharge (as already mentioned), neuralgia, asthma, nasal cough, aphonia, laryngeal spasm, etc., also eczema of the vestibules, affections of the ex- ternal nose in the form of redness and thicken- ing of the tipae, the latter being probably partially reflex. The eye may be implicated through the lachrymal duct, causing affection of the lachrymal apparatus. Conjunctivitis (simple and phlyctenular), keratitis, etc. have been described in connection with chronic rhinitis. Ear complications are still more common, and may be roughly said to be due either to the nasal obstruction interfering with the proper ventilation of the tympanic cavities, or to an extension of the catarrh through the nasopharynx up the Eustachian tubes. Dis- eases of the accessory sinuses may result from chronic coryza, but probably the reverse is more commonly the case. Diagnosis. —The diagnosis is usually easy, the most important point being to ascertain whether, in addition to the nasal catarrh, any other affections are present, such as disease of the accessory sinuses or tumours, also the absence of any chronic infective diseases as syphilis and tubercle. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends chiefly on the causation of the disease, whether removable or not. The disease is not dangerous except in young children, when the nasal obstruction may interfere seriously with their nutrition. On the whole, the prognosis is favourable when the disease is suitably treated. Treatment.—In simple chronic coryza the first essential is the removal of any existing source of irritation, whether it be introduced from without or be an intranasal irritant (see above. Etiology). The secretion should be re- moved by regular cleansing of the nose by the patient; this may be accomplished either (1) by sniffing up a liquid from a vessel or the palm of the hand, and ejecting it through the mouth; (2) by using a glass syringe provided with an olive-shaped nozzle ; or (3) where there is much discharge, by the use of a Higginson's syringe with a similar nozzle.^ In the two latter cases the syringe should only be inserted into the narrower nostril, and the patient be directed to breathe through his mouth, and not to swallow while the liquid is in his nose. The simplest and best liquid to use is a warm normal solution of chloride of sodium {i.e. '73 per cent, or a tea-spoonful of table-salt to a pint of water). This may be varied, if desired, by a solution of bicarbonate of soda (jij. ad Oj.) or sulphate of soda (5iv. ad Oj.), or a mixture of these salts may be used. If the secretion be hard, its removal is facilitated by spraying in first some liquid vaseline (paroleine), or by previously inserting, for a short time, plugs of wool lubricated with vaseline. To arrest the secretion astringents are sometimes recom- mended, but they are, as a rule, badly borne, and often endanger the sense of smell; on this account alum and zinc salts must be avoided. A spirit spray, beginning with 25 per cent of rectified spirit in water, may often be employed with advantage, also the smoking of the nascent fumes of chloride of ammonium from an inhaler. Local applications by the surgeon of a solution of nitrate of silver are sometimes of service. The insufflation of powders, though recom- mended by some authors, is, I think, best avoided. When erection of the turbinated bodies is a prominent symptom and does not subside under this treatment, it should be re- duced by applications of the galvanic cautery. The most convenient plan is to score from behind forwards the anterior two-thirds of the inferior turbinated body under careful guidance of the eye. A fine cautery-point is used, which is bent near the tip towards the side being operated on. Three or four of these linear cauterisations made at the same time one above the other are usually necessary. When the swelling affects the posterior end of the inferior turbinated bodies it is best, if possible, to re- move it with a cold or hot snare introduced through the nasal cavity and guided, if neces- sary, into position with the finger in the naso- pharynx. After cautery operations on the nose, it is best to leave the parts entirely alone until the end of a week, when the slough may be re- moved with a pair of fine forceps. Electrolysis may be tried, but gives, according to my ex- perience, less satisfactory results. In hyper- trophic rhinitis, if the thickening is evidently producing obstruction, steps should be taken to reduce it. This is most satisfactorily ac- complished either at the front or back with the cold or galvanic snare. The former, according 1 The nasal douche should never be used, on account of the risk of producing acute otitis media.