280 PARALYSIS likely to be confounded with cerebral diplegia are Marie's hereditary ataxy, Friedreich's ataxy, disseminated sclerosis occurring in children, and familial spastic paralysis. Treatment.—Only the slighter forms of general- ised and paraplegic rigidity afford any scope for treatment. Careful mental training and the regular use of appropriate gymnastic exercises may do much to aid improvement. Slow extension and the division of tendons in followed some time later, if the child live, by general muscular wasting and rigidity. The limbs may ultimately become quite flaccid. Great mental failure, optic atrophy, and peculiar retinal changes have been present. The retinal changes are in the macular region, where a whitish-grey oval patch is seen about twice the size of the optic disc, with its long axis lying horizontally, and its surface slightly raised above the general surface. The fovea centralis is seen as a cherry-red spot in the centre of this (After Collier and Purves Stewart.) slight cases where contractures have occurred have produced encouraging results. Infantile Cerebral Degeneration. — Nearly allied to the disease just described is a remark- able and very characteristic group of cases, first described by Warren Tay, to which the above name has been applied. In the reported cases of this disease the patients have all been Hebrews. The disease is familial. There have been no clinical ante- cedents. Birth has always been natural and at full term. The patients have been healthy till between the third and sixth months, when general weakness comes on insidiously, and is area. The disease has proved fatal in all cases at an early period, generally before the second year of life. A progressive primary degeneration of the large cells of the cerebral cortex has been con- stantly found in these cases. A similar de- generation of the cells of the retina has been also present. Infantile Hemiplegia.—While according to the strict meaning of the term "infantile" this group should comprise all cases of hemiplegia occurring before the age of puberty, it has become broadly restricted to cases occurring before the sixth year of life. There are several