219 OXIDATION Oxidation.—The combination of another substance with oxygen, e.g. when the other substance is another element the result is an oxide; conversion into an oxygen compound. Oxidase or oxydase is the substance inherent in living tissues {e.g. columnar epithelium) which can set free active oxygen. Oxy-.—In compound words oxy- (Gr. 6^s, sharp or acid) usually means sharp or keen {e.g. oxycanthous, with sharp thorns); in other cases it is the combining form of oxygen {e.g. in oxy-acid or oxy-salt. Oxysestiiesicl. — Preternatural acute- ness of sensation; hypersesthesia. Oxyblepsia,.—Sharpness of sight. Oxybutyria Acid. — A fatty acid (CjHgOg) found sometimes in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Acetone and fS-Oxyhutyric Acid). Oxycamphor.—An oxidation product of camphor (CjqHj50(0H)), used in the treat- ment of dyspnoea, in doses of from 8 to 16 grains. Oxyceplialy.—A malformation of the head on which the vertex is pointed. See Mental Deficiency {Microcephalic Cases). Oxych lorate.—A chlorate, e.g. of potash. OxyeCOia.—^ Preternatural acuteness of hearing; auditory hypereesthesia. Oxygen is a colourless, odourless, and tasteless gas, somewhat heavier than atmospheric air, which contains 20'96 volumes per cent of this gas. Physiological experiments prove that, on inhalation of an atmosphere of pure oxygen, the normal animal organism does not take up more oxygen than on inhalation of the ordinary atmospheric air, or in other words, that the atmospheric air is sufficient for the oxidation of nearly all the reduced haemoglobin passing through the lungs under normal conditions. At the present time there is considerable divergence of opinion as to the therapeutic value of oxygen, but in spite of theoretical objections its administration is beneficial to some patients in whom dyspnoea and cyanosis are urgent symptoms, and especially when these symptoms are dependent on some obstruction of the respiratory passages. Thus in some cases of true asthma, bronchitis, and laryngeal diph- theria, and in cases in which there is pressure on the trachea or extrapulmonary bronchi, inhalation of an atmosphere rich in oxygen is useful in reducing the frequency of the pulse and respirations and in relieving dyspnoea and cyanosis. In pneumonia, pulmonary emphy- sema, and cardiac disease, the benefit of oxygen inhalation is less evident. The improvement obtained in some of the latter cases is frequently ascribed to .mental sxiggestion, but is often largely if not entirely due to the stimulant action of the gas. In most of these cases the use of oxygen induces only temporary improve- ment ; rarely, if ever, is the improvement permanent. As a stimulant, oxygen is also useful in severe collapse, in excessive chloi'o- form narcosis, and in carbon monoxide, opium, and other forms of narcotic poisoning. Oxygen inhalations have probably no influence either on the fixed tissues or the metabolism of the organism, and as a rule no improvement has been obtained by the use of oxygen in diseases such as ansemia, pernicious anaemia, leucocythaemia, tuberculosis, diabetes, gout, and other constitutional diseases. The gas should be administered in a concentrated form, and hence through a mask, if a stimulant effect is desired. If the inhalation, whether continuous or interrupted, is to be prolonged over a con- siderable period of time, it is advisable to connect the tube leading from the oxygen cylinder with a wash bottle so that the gas may pass through water before being inhaled. Oxygen is also employed on account of its local oxidising and antiseptic action. Water saturated with oxygen has long been employed by some both for drinking and balneological purposes, but the pure gas has no action on the skin itself. The local application of oxygen is more readily obtained by the use of hydrogen peroxide, which on contact with the tissues is decomposed into water and oxygen. The local application of the watery solution of hydrogen peroxide is therefore useful in such conditions as suppurating wounds, septic ulcers, diphtheria, and tonsillitis. Oxyg'ensia.—Unusual keenness of the sense of taste. Oxyfiaematoporpiiyrin. — A sub- stance found in urine producing a red colour; it resembles urohsematoporphyrin. Oxyhsemog^iobin. — The bright red compound of the blood which consists of a molecule of haemoglobin linked with one of oxygen (HbO). See Hemoglobinuria ; Physi- ology, Blood and Lymph {Chemistry of Bed Cells); Pigments op the Body and Excreta ; Spectroscope in Medicine {Spectra). Oxymei.—A preparation consisting of eight parts of liquefied honey, of one part of acetic acid, and of one part of water; it is given in doses of 1 to 2 fl. drachms. See Honey. Oxymella. — Officinal preparations con- taining honey, acetic acid, and some other drug; the British Pharmacopoeia contains only one oxymei, that of squill {oxymei scillce).