PANCREAS, DISEASES OF 258 drainage was carried out in 10 cases of true cyst, with recovery in 9 : in 2 cases of pseudo- cyst drainage was performed, with recovery in one. I have been able to collect from all sources the report of 160 operations, with 140 recoveries. 3. Malignant Diseases of the Pancreas occur under the forms of both cancer and sarcoma, the former being much the more common ; according to Segie, in the proportion of 63-5 to 1. From the large number of cases of cancer of the pancreas that I have personally seen— considerably over 50—I should have thought it to be a fairly common disease ; but Dr. Hale White {Guy's Hosp. Rep., liv.) gives only 30 cases of primary cancer and 1 of sarcoma among the 142 cases of pancreatic disease observed during fourteen years among 6708 examinations in the post-mortem room of Guy's Hospital. The table also shows 11 cases of secondary growth, and 13 in which the pancreas was involved by extension of malignant disease from adjoining organs; so that, taking all the cases together, it represents about one death from malignant disease of the pancreas out of every 200 patients that died in Guy's Hospital during fourteen years. The disease, whether sarcoma or cancer, runs a very rapid course, and an analysis of the Guy's series of cases shows that in no instance was life prolonged for more than eight months from the first appearance of symptoms, some patients dying within three months, and the sarcoma case within two months of the onset of symptoms. Cancer of the pancreas is a disease of middle or advanced age. I have, however, seen it in a man of thirty-two as well as in one at seventy-five. It is, nevertheless, unusual to find cancer of the pancreas before forty. Sarcoma occurs earlier in life. In one case reported by Litten, the patient was only four years of age; a case of Dr. Goodhart's was twenty-eight. I operated on a man aged fifty- five for a large tumour presenting all the characters of a cyst of the pancreas, but on exploration it was found to be a soft sarcoma of extremely rapid growth, and the operation was therefore concluded as an exploration, which, if anything, appeared to benefit the patient for a time. Symptoms.—The symptoms of cancer of the pancreas differ according to its site and the direction in which it progresses. If the body or tail only be involved there will be an absence of jaundice, but a steady wasting, with obscure epigastric pain and depression. Pain is frequently entirely absent, and the only signs are a steady loss of flesh and strength, and ultimately the appearance of a tumour behind the stomach ; but at times the pain is severe and paroxysmal, then resembling gall- stones. The stools are pale and bulky and contain an excess of fat, which is chiefly neutral fat. Sugar in the urine is worth noting, as it is said to be present in about half the cases; but my experience is that glycosuria is not commonly present, and is, in fact, an exceptional symptom. Among the cases coming under my observa- tion I have found sugar present in three cases of cancer of the pancreas, but not in any of the acute conditions for which I have operated. A hard, rounded, or nodular tumour, fixed deeply in the abdomen, just above the umbilicus, not markedly tender to pressure, not moving on respiration, giving a sense of communicated pulsation on palpation, and a bruit on ausculta- tion, with stomach or bowel in front of it, and associated with rapid wasting, is likely to be a pancreatic tumour. The growth only occasionally attains large enough proportions to be visible through the abdominal wall, and it may be so small as to be beyond detection, except as giving an obscure sense of resistance. When the head of the pancreas is involved, jaundice comes on and persists; a tumour is then readily felt, but this is the gall-bladder distended with mucus, and the pancreas itself cannot then ordinarily be palpated. Persistent jaundice without pain, associated with tumour of the gall-bladder, is usually de- pendent on cancer of the head of the pancreas; and, in fact, whenever after forty there is chronic jaundice, associated with a distended gall-bladder, even with pain resembling gall- stone attacks, a suspicion of pancreatic cancer should be entertained. Pressure on or involvement of the portal vein leads in the later stages to ascites, as does pressure on the vena cava to dropsy of the legs, and on the splenic vein to enlargement of the spleen. The liver enlarges when the head of the pancreas is involved, owing to pressure on the common bile-duct and stagnation of bile in the liver. The lymphatic glands and the liver and stomach become involved in the later stages. Bleeding from the gums, nose, and bowel, with petechite in the skin, nearly always appear in cases where jaundice is present. Infective cholangitis, as shown by ague-like attacks, does occasionally occur in these cases, but much less frequently than when gall-stones are the cause of the obstruction in the bile-ducts. Diagnosis.—The course and symptoms just related render a diagnosis feasible ; but if in doubt with regard to the tiunour, inflation of the stomach or colon will usually enable the disease to be distinguished from pyloric, bowel, liver, or gall-bladder tumour. The presence of glycosuria and of fat in the stools afford valuable positive evidence, but their not being found