545 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Since the retinal changes vary only according to the degree of illumination, i.e. the amplitude of vibration of the ethereal waves, and the rate of these waves, and since the part of the retina acted on is determined by the direction of the rays, we have the means of getting a flat picture only of what we look at, but no special arrange- ments for having different sensations according to the distance of an object or according to whether it is flat or in relief. Thus the means of determining the size, distance, and form of objects by the visual mechanism is very limited. The means of estimating the actual size of an object has been considered on p. 533. The distance of objects is estimated: (1) when outside the range of positive accommodation, first, by the apparent size; second, by aerial perspective—the effect of the atmosphere; third, by Tnatheniatical perspective — the apparent convergence of lines in the distance, as is well seen in look- ing up a railway track; (2) when inside the range of positive accommodation, first, by the extent of positive accommodation required to focus them (p. 536), and second, by the extent of convergence of the optic axes required to keep the image on the central spots of the two retinge (p. 542). The Contour is estimated in the same way as the distance, and by stereoscopic vision with the two eyes. It is not then wonderful that erroneous judg- ments are frequently made. The possibility of such may be indicated by one or two examples of what are called modified perceptions. (1) If a black wafer on a white ground and a white wafer on a black ground be looked at, the latter will appear larger than the former, because the light from the white part radiates over the margin. colour and after images may be classed under such modified perceptions. (4) If a square be ruled with parallel diagonal lines, and if short vertical and horizontal lines be placed alternately upon them, they will no longer appear parallel (Fig. 75). (c) For Vibration of Air.—Sense of Hear- ing.—1. General Considerations.—While through Fig. 74.—To illustrate an optical illusion (2) If an imaginary line be divided into two equal parts, and if a series of dots be put along the one half, that part will appear longer than the other (Fig. 74). (3) Contrasts.—(a) Simultaneous.—A black wafer placed on a white ground will appear of a deeper black than if placed on a grey ground, and a red wafer will appear more red when placed on a green ground. (6) Successive. — If the eye look from a green surface to a red surface, the red will appear more intense than if the eye has been looking first at a grey surface. The various phenomena of complemental VOL. VII Fia. 75.—To illustrate an optical illusion. ZnT. Fig. 76.—Diagram of the ear. Ex.il., External meatus; Ty., tympanic membrane ; m., malleus ; i'., incus; s., stapes; f.o., fenestra ovalis; f.r., fenestra rotunda; En.T., Eustachian tube; w., vestibule with the utricle and saccule ; s.c, semicircular canal; Coch., cochlea. the tactile mechanism differences of pressure act as stimuli, through the ear certain vibratory changes of pressure stimulate and may affect the consciousness. Even simple organisms, de- void of any special organ of hearing, may be affected by vibratory changes, and in fish it is difficult to be certain how far such vibrations produce their effect through the ear or through the body generally. But in higher vertebrates it is chiefly through the ears that they act. In these there is a special arrangement by which the vibrations of the air are converted into vibrations of a fluid in a sac situated in the side of the head into which the free ends of neurons project (Fig. 76). The importance of such a mechanism in the anterior part of the animal in warning it of danger, or making it aware of the presence of its prey, is manifest. In mammals the organ of hearing consists of an external, a middle, and an internal ear. The first is to conduct the vibrations of the air to the second, in which these vibrations produce to and fro movements of a bony lever, by which the fluid in the third is alternately compressed and relaxed. 2. External Ear.—The structure of this pre- sents no point of special physiological interest. In lower animals the pinna is under the control of muscles, and is of use in determining the direction from which soimd comes. 3. Middle Ear.—The object of the middle ear is to overcome the mechanical difficulty of changing vibrations of air into vibrations of a fluid. It consists of a chamber, the tympanic cavity, placed outside of the petrous part of 35