345 PARASITES aspect of the somewhat pointed anterior extrem- ity of the body, and, as it surrounds the mouth, it is termed the oral sucker. If, as is usually the case, there be a second sucker, it is situated on the ventral surface at a variable distance behind the former. The mouth is continued into a pharynx, an oesophagus, and an intestine which bifurcates into two cseca, or limbs, which pass backwards to near the posterior end of the body and end blindly. Most of the reproductive organs are situated between the two limbs of the intestine, and nearly all the trematodes are hermaphrodite. The eggs are formed in the uterus, and remain there for a considerable period of time, during which they ripen. When ripe they are of a brownish or yellow colour, and have, as a rule, an operculum. The eggs are eventually passed from the host by way of the intestine or urinary passages. The embryo or Miracidium then escapes from the egg, and its subsequent development varies in different species. In some—for instance, Fasciola hepa- tica—-there are between the Miracidium and the adult worm two generations in a special inter- mediate host, and there is thus an alternation both of generations and of hosts. With the exception of 3fonostoma lentis, which has only one oral sucker, and was found once within the lens of a woman, all the trematodes of man belong to one or other of the three families: Fasciolidte, Amphistomidte, Schisto- somidse. Fasciolidce.—There are two suckers, the posterior one being situated in the median line of the ventral surface, but not at the posterior extremity of the body. The parasites found in the human subject are all included in the four genera: Fasciola, Dicrocoelium, Opisthorchis, Mesogonimus. Fasciola hepatica (Linne, 1758); Syn.: Dis- tonium hepaticum (Retzius, 1786).—The body Fig. 6.—Eg ;s of Fasciola hepatica. and Peiper.) (After Mosler is 20-32 mm. long, 8-13 mm. broad, flattened, oval or leaf-shaped, more pointed posteriorly than anteriorly, and of a pale brownish-yellow colour. The oral sucker is small and circular, and 3 mm. behind it is the large ventral sucker. The two intestinal limbs give off numerous branches, and extend to the posterior end of the body. The genital pore is situated between the two suckers, but nearer the ventral one. The eggs are 130-145 /x long, 70-90 /x broad, of a brown colour, and have an operculum at the anterior pole. These parasites inhabit the bile- ducts of herbivora and of man, producing large numbers of eggs which pass into the intestinal canal of the host. If an egg, after being- expelled from the host, lies in water, the Miracidmm develops, raises the opercidum, escapes and swims about by means of its cilia until it meets its intermediate host, which is a small mollusc, Limnma truncatulata. It be- comes lodged in the pulmonary cavity of this mollusc, and is then transformed into a Hporo- cyst. From germinative cells within the body cavity of the Sporocyst, Redice having a cylin- drical form and a digestive canal are then developed. The Redite next wander out of the sac of the Sporocyst and migrate to some other organ of the host. Each Redia further produces numerous Cercarice. The anterior portion of the body of a Cercaria resembles the adult trematode, whilst a long tail constitutes the posterior part of the body. The Cercarise eventually escape both from the Redia and from the intermediate host, and swim about until they become encysted on such objects as the leaves of aquatic plants or blades of grass. The definite host is infected by ingestion of encysted Cercarige on such plants. The definite host is visually the sheep or ox, less frequently the goat, horse, or other herbivora. In the former animals the parasite is common in Europe, Australia, and South America. The disease " Liver rot," due to the presence of these flukes in the bile-ducts, is most common in marshy or ill-drained districts. The livers of affected sheep are reduced in size, markedly cirrhotic, the bile-ducts are much dilatec^, and contain both the parasites and their eggs in large numbers. In man this trematode is a verj' rare parasite, for it is recorded in only twenty-three cases. As a rule, there have been in each patient only one or two examples of the parasite, and their presence has often resulted in little, if any, disturbance of the general health. In some of the cases, however, there were chronic symptoms, such as severe jaundice, hepatic en- largement, pain and tenderness, and hsema- temesis. In some instances the liver has con- tained a few of the parasites and been otherwise quite normal; in others there have been cir- rhosis, dilatation of the bile-ducts, obstruction of the hepatic duct, and secondary conditions, such as gastritis and splenic enlargement. Fig. 7.—Fasciola hepatica, nat. size. (After Mosler and Peiper.)