436 PERITONEUM—TUMOURS often become calcified. There is no treatment for them, as they are hardly ever recognised during life. The fatty tumours always grow from the sub- peritoneal tissue. To a certain extent they are normal structures, and every surgeon who per- forms the radical operation for the cure of hernia knows that he often meets with them at the internal abdominal ring in males and in the femoral canal in women. They are also found at the obturator foramen and in the linea alba, and in all these situations they may be mistaken for hernise. Lipomata sometimes grow in the subserous tissue behind the kidneys and in the iliac fossa, whilst by insinuating themselves between the layers of the mesentery they may encircle the small intestine, and may thus appear to be intraperitoneal in origin. Indeed, in some cases they have been found to lie free in the abdominal cavity, the explanation of such a condition being that they have been attached to a very delicate pedicle, which has been torn through either shortly before death or during post-mortem examination. The lipomata or fibro-lipomata are usually of small size, but sometimes they attain huge dimensions, and have been known to weigh sixty pounds. Histologically they are pure fatty tumours, fatty tumours with much fibrous tissue or myxomatous growths. The symptoms vary with the situation and size of the growth. Lipomata lying in the inguinal and femoral rings, even when they are small, have been mistaken for inflamed or stran- gulated herniee. The resemblance is often close because the tumours give an impulse on cough- ing, and may cause both pain and vomiting. The larger growths have often been diagnosed as ascites and ovarian tumours. These mistakes, however, may be avoided with a little care, for the smaller tumours are situated more super- ficially than a true hernia, and the larger lipomata are soft, and move, as a whole, in a very characteristic manner. The prognosis in the small tumours is favour- able, and they may be removed without hesi- tation if they are troublesome. But in the large tumours the prognosis is much less favourable. They are deeply seated in the abdominal cavity, a large operation is required for their removal, and they have often formed dense adhesions to the surrounding tissues and organs. MM. Terrier and Guillemin have only had 4 recoveries in 11 operations. The myomata spring chiefly from the uterus and its ligaments, but they occasionally grow independently from the scattered muscular fibres in the broad ligament, or from the suspensory bands in the mesentery and else- where. The fihro-niyotnata occur as a variety of these unstriped muscle tumours, and they are some- times multiple, as in the case quoted by the late Mr. William Anderson, which occurred at Tokyo Charity Hospital. The patient was a girl aged nine years, from whom twenty-one rounded tumours of various sizes were removed from different parts of the subperitoneal tissue, extending from the pelvis to the hypochondrium. The heaviest tumour weighed more than seven pounds. They were soft, but elastic, white and wax-like on section, and under the microscope they were found to consist of dense fibrous tissue containing some unstriped muscle fibres. The tumours were distinctly encapsuled, and shelled out readily. But the patient, who was an emaciated child, died of shock directly after the operation. The hinocent cystic tumours of the peritoneum are the result of injuries; they are inflammatory, parasitic, or connected with foetal remains. Lymphangiomata and haematomata are found within the peritoneal cavity in consequence of obstruction to the lymphatics or the blood- vessels, especially in the immediate neighbour- hood of new growths. They are not of any practical importance. Dr. Rolleston has called attention in the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. xlix., 1898, p. 145, to the manner in which cysts may be produced by simple obstruction in the lesser sac of the peri- toneum. The case was that of a man aged twenty-five, who was seized with vomiting a fortnight before his death, the vomiting con- tinuing during the rest of his life. He had pain in the lower part of his abdomen which was never very acute. It came on before he vomited, and was sometimes relieved by the emptying of his stomach. The patient had always suffered from constipation, which had been more marked since the onset of his illness. There was no history of any abdominal injury, there was no jaundice, hsematemesis, nor melsena, and the patient had wasted consider- ably since the vomiting began. An indistinct tumour was felt below the left hypochondrium, with the stomach resonance above it, the heart's apex being in the fourth costal interspace. The diagnosis lay between carcinoma of the stomach and a pancreatic cyst. It was found at the autopsy that the patient had died of an acute inflammation of the pancreas. There was no general peritonitis, but the lesser sac of the peritoneum (the "omental bursa" of American authors) was foiuid distended with grumous fluid, yellowish-brown in colour, and turbid. The foramen of Winslow was obliter- ated, so that there was a localised peritoneal effusion, the stomach being pressed forwards and flattened on the front of the distended lesser sac, the walls of which were thickened by inflammation and showed scattered areas of fat necrosis. The mechanism by which the effusion becomes limited to the lesser sac depends on the sealing up of the foramen of Winslow, which may be one of the first effects