491 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Of the mon-amino acids thus formed, Leucin —amino-caproic acid—is generally the most abundant. Of the mon-amino acids linked to the benzene nucleus, Tyrosin—in which amino-proprionic acid is linked to a benzene ring with one H replaced by OH—is the most important. It is these acids with the benzene ring which give the xanthoproteic test—an orange colour when ammonia is added to a protein heated with nitric acid. In most proteins the di-amino acids are less abundant than the mon-amino, and in some they are absent. But in a simple form of protein, discovered by Kossel, linked with nucleic acid in the heads of spermatozoa and called by him Protamine, these diamino acids constitute about 80 per cent of the molecule. While these amino acids are normally con- verted to urea before being excreted, in certain states of the metabolism they appear in the urine. The amides are always present in small amount, linked together as in biuret HjN— CO—NH—CO—NHg, and it is these which give the biuret test—the pink or violet when sodic hydrate is added to the protein with which a trace of cupric sulphate has been mixed. The pyrrhol derivatives are ring formations of four carbons linked by an amidogen— H—C—C—H II II H—C C—H N H They are seen in indol and its derivatives, where a pyrrhol ring is attached to the benzene ring, thus— They are apt to split off from the protein still linked to amino-acetic acid. The presence of indol in the protein molecule explains the purple reaction when a protein is treated with glyoxylic acid and sulphuric acid —Adamkiewicz's reaction. 2. Synthesis of the Products of Disintegration. —Emil Fischer and his co-workers have suc- ceeded in building up from the amino acids a series of bodies containing two, four, and as many as ten of the amino acid molecules, linked to one another in series, the OH of the hydroxyl of one being linked on to the amidogen of the other with the giving off of HgO, thus :— H 0 OH H H H 0 i II t t I I II N—C—C N—C—C—OH H H Amino-acetic acid. Amino-acetic acid. Glycin. Glycin. Glycyl-glycin. This he calls glycyl-glycin,—the amino acids which have lost the OH of the acid being characterised by the terminal yl. Such compounds he calls Peptides, character- ising them, according to the number of mole- cules linked, as Di-, Tri-, Tetra-, and Poly- peptides. Some of the higher of these give the biuret test for proteins from the presence of the linked CO.NH, group ; and if an acid with the benzene ring is in the chain, they also give the xantho- proteic test. He has also succeeded in building the pyrrhol derivative, pyrrholidine carbonic acid, or prolin as he calls it, into polypeptides. (C) Classification of the Proteins (A) Sirtiide Proteins.—1. Native Proteins.— These proteins, either alone, or combined with certain other substances, are constant ingre- dients of dead protoplasm and of the fluid constituents of the body. They are distin- guished from all other proteins by being coagu- lated on heating. There are two groups—Globulins and Albu- mins — the former characterised by being insoluble in distilled water, by requiring the presence of a small quantity of a neutral salt to form a solution, and by being precipitated from solution by half saturating with ammonium sulphate. 2. Proteoses (Proteins with a less complex molecule than albumins and globulins).—They may be formed from albumins (albumoses) and globulins (globuloses) by the action of super- heated steam and during digestion. Under the influence of these agents, the complex molecule splits into simpler molecules and takes up water. These proteoses form a series between the original proteins on the one hand, and the peptones or simplest proteins on the other. They may be divided into two classes:— (a) Those nearly allied to the original pro- teins— Protoproteoses, which are precipitated in a saturated solution of sodium chloride, NaCl. (6) Those more nearly allied to the peptones —^Deviteroproteoses, which are not precipitated in a saturated solution of NaCl, but are pre- cipitated by a saturated solution of ammonium sulphate. 3. Peptones. — These are products of the further splitting of proteoses. Their character-