43 NEURASTHENIA but if we overdo the highest nervous centres, and empty their reservoirs—quis custodietV ^ Without depreciating Dr. Clifford AUbutt's warning it is well to remember that a very large proportion of the women who distinguish them- selves in examinations speedily marry, and are absorbed from that time in the family life. They do not look to be heard of beyond their own circle. A large number also go into the profession of teaching, which is for the most part in its relation to the outside world a silent one. The two " eloquent" professions, the Church and the Bar, are not open to women. Moreover, in the case of both men and women, many qualities other than ability and brain capacity are required to make success in life certain. Many of the people who do best in examinations are lacking in the common-sense and tact so much wanted in ordinary life. It is by no means certain that all whom Dr. AUbutt has noticed as " dropping out" of the race after university life have suffered from their hard work. Moreover, to speak of " emptying the reservoirs" of the highest nervous centres is surely to use words which obscure thought rather than illumine it. Is there any ground for supposing that we have that which even by a metaphorical stretch of language can be called "a reserve of nerve force " 1 Surely all we can suppose is that the force of the higher nerve centres and of all other centres is meant to be used, and should be used, but that it is also meant to be con- stantly renewed by the daily and hourly pro- cesses of repair, which processes depend upon sleep, relaxation, and nutrition. We are all neurasthenic when we are dead tired from want of sleep, undue exertion, and the absence of food. Is any ordinarily endowed person good for anything if he misses two or three consecutive nights of rest, if he not merely does not sleep, but cannot even go to bed and rest his muscles, if he is obliged to go on exerting himself long after he is tired, and if he has had during the same time very little food 1 There is no question here of " emptying a reservoir." The process of repair has been arrested, and profound ex- haustion is the inevitable result. The momen- tous question in such a case is, will the repairing functions start work again when permitted by cir- cumstances to do so 1 or are the nerves by which the repairing functions themselves are controlled and vitalised so broken down and disorganised that rapid repair is impossible 1 A wise man who is much over-tired knows by experience that till he has had a long rest he must ask very little from the nerves of his stomach. Repair by way of food is not at once possible. He will take the lightest and simplest liquid food, and not much of it. He will have a quick sponge-bath with hot water, and will go to bed and stay there if possible till he has next morning digested 1 AUbutt's System of Medicine, vol. viii. pp. 150, 151. another very small and light meal. Whether he will suffer for a long time from the exhaustion due to undue expenditure of nerve force depends upon two questions. Will sleep be at once or qviickly possible to him 1 and will the nerves of nutrition quickly recover sufficiently to supply the cells of the brain and spinal cord with the pabulum they need for their restoration to activity ? If the nutrition of the higher centres is so far enfeebled that sleep from the first is difficult, imperfect, and scanty, the vicious circle is begun. The nutritional nerves are day by day still further depressed, in the absence of natural and restful sleep, and they presently give out, and cannot work at anything like the normal rate. Then the circle is complete. Tired nerve-cells of brain and cord, irritated by imperfect blood-supply, no sleep possible, nutri- tional activity very low, repair therefore almost nil,—neurasthenia the result. The circle once forged is terribly hard to break. It can only be broken by gradually restoring the processes which make for repair, i.e. the power of sleeping and the power of digesting, and by checking in the meantime everything which increases the expenditure of nervous energy. An over-driven horse, dropping down under the burden of dragging a too heavy load uphill, does not want the whip, but that his load should be lightened. A student who tries to live upon coffee because it puts off sleep and diminishes the sense of hunger, and enables him for a time to do with very little of both sleep and food, is recklessly trifling with his powers of repair. He is with ignorant rashness putting his name to a physio- logical "bill" which he will, in too many cases, find it hard to meet even at the end of years of damaged nerve force. Nor is it only in nervous failure that overstrain makes itself felt. Long-sustained high tension tells directly upon the heart, and in many cases also on the nutrition of the arteries. In Balzac's case, a man of naturally great constitutional vigour died at the age of fifty of dilatation of the heart and its consequences. As one of his biographers writes: " His excess of labour, his sleepless nights, his abuse of coffee, had undermined his seemingly indestructible health." ^ Treatment.—(a) Preventive.—Acquired neur- asthenia is one of the many things which it is easier to prevent than to cure. Parents and school masters and mistresses might with ad- vantage know more than they do about the risks of overstrain, both as to mental work and exer- cise, and about the difference in nervous strength between some children and others. Even in the best public schools for boys the food is too often not as good as it should be, bearing in mind how rapidly boys grow and the amount of exercise they constantly take. It is almost impossible to give growing boys and girls too much food, provided it is simple and sufficiently ^ Encycl. Brit., 9th edition.