287 PARALYSIS the white matter is seen all round the periphery of the cord, while the grey matter and a small area of white matter immediately surrounding it remain practically normal. If from this point in the mid-dorsal region the process be traced up the cord, it is found that the general de- struction becomes gradually less, and instead of affecting all tracts alike tends to limit itself to the posterior columns, the dorsal and ventral cerebellar tracts, and the crossed pyramidal tracts. With regard to the affection of the posterior columns, the postero-internal (Goll) are much more affected than the postero-external (Burdach). But even in the cervical region, although the tracts above mentioned may be the most affected areas of the cord, yet the disease is not limited to them ; for scattered areas of degeneration are present, a favourite situation for these being in the ventral region of the cord in the position occupied by the direct pyramidal tracts and the neighbouring ground bundles. The degeneration of the posterior columns can be traced up to the posterior column nuclei, and that in the dorsal and ventral cerebellar tracts into the inferior cerebellar peduncle and velum respectively, although with regard to the latter tract the degeneration can only be traced by the Marchi method — a method which re- veals nerve fibres that are in a recent state of degeneration. The degeneration in the pyramidal tracts can only as a rule be traced as high as the middle of the pons, although in exceptional cases de- generate fibres can be found also in the internal capsule and corona radiata. Sections from the lumbar region of the cord show sclerosis of the posterior columns and of the crossed pyramidal tracts, while in the sacral region the degenera- tion is almost limited to the crossed pyramidal tracts; but although this is in the main true, even in this region, scattered areas of degenera- tion are present outside the limits of these tracts. The walls of the blood-vessels in the sclerotic areas are thickened, but little change can be seen in them outside the affected areas. Very little change can be found in the grey matter or in the cells of the anterior horns, in those of Clarke's column, or in those of the cerebral cortex. The anterior and posterior roots appear normal, as do the posterior root ganglia, with the exception of rare instances when changes have been found in them in connection with the occurrence of herpes or subcutaneous haemor- rhages. In cases that have reached an advanced stage considerable degeneration can be found in the nerves and marked atrophy of the muscle fibres, although in cases that come to autopsy earlier neither of these changes is present. Two distinct processes account for the changes found in the spinal cord : a focal destructive lesion and a system lesion. With regard to the first of these, an examina- tion of the margin of the areas of degeneration reveals that the earliest change is swelling of the meduUated sheath; within this outer zone the sheath can be seen undergoing fatty de- generation ; this in turn becomes absorbed, and at the same time the axis cylinders disappear and a space is thus formed. By the grouping and fusion of these spaces vacuolated areas are formed which are very characteristic of the focal destructive process. With regard to the second, viz., the system degeneration, the long tracts of the cord exhibit a degeneration similar to that found after a trans- verse lesion, and the tracts thus affected show a very definite sclerosis. The two processes merge very closely into one another, so that it is often difficult to say which is due to the focal lesion and which to the system lesion. It must not, however, be supposed that the degeneration is limited to the long afferent or efferent tracts of the cord, for it also affects fibres outide the region of these tracts. Pathology. — Various views have been ad- vanced as to the pathology of this affection: it has been thought by some that the cord changes were secondary to the anaemia; by others, that they were due to the occurrence of multiple haemorrhages; by others, again, to changes in the vessel walls. The view, however, which seems to be most in accordance with the symp- toms and pathological anatomy is that which attributes the condition to a toxic agent, which is jointly responsible for the changes in the spinal cord and for the anaimia. That the con- dition is, in part at all events, dependent on the vascular supply is shown by the fact that the degeneration is for the most part in the area of the cord supplied by the pial vessels. This, however, cannot be the only factor, and there is no doubt that the longer neurons tend to suffer more than those which are shorter. Neither of the above points, however, explains why the dorsal part of the cord is more liable to suffer than the cervical or lumbar regions. Diagnosis.—The disease is recognised by the character of its onset, the association of ataxia and spasticity, and its progressive course. The differential diagnosis, although a simple matter in the later stages, presents considerable diffi- culties in the earlier stages of the aftection. The two diseases with which it is most liable to be confused are tabes and disseminated sclerosis, and it will be well to deal with these first, and to afterwards consider the other affec- tions which may possibly give rise to errors in diagnosis. The symptoms during the earlier stages of the affection which suggest a diagnosis of tabes are ataxia and gii'dle pains, while in the later stages the loss of knee-jerk with flaccid paralysis of the lower limbs are those which bear the most striking resemblance to that disease. During the first stage the diagnosis depends