365 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF that it is almost impossible to remove the gland by the intracapsular method. The outer layer of the capsule, on the other hand, is much less adherent to the parotid fossa, though its adherence varies at different parts; thus it is easily separated subcutaneously, over the mas- seter, near the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, in the submaxillary region and behind the jaw, whilst it is very firmly attached to the neigh- bouring structures along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and at the upper ■ part of the fossa. It is easier, therefore, to \ remove the gland by working behind the two ' layers of the fascia than by exposing the | glandular tissue. Two to six small lymphatic glands lie more or less embedded in the substance of the i parotid gland—the more superficial lie beneath the parotid fascia, immediately in front of the ' tragus ; the remainder are situated more deeply. These glands receive the superficial lymphatic vessels from the upper part of the side of the ; face and the lower eyelid ; the deeper lym- phatics from these parts emptying themselves ' into the lymphatic glands beneath the lower jaw. Injuries Wounds of the parotid gland itself are not of i very great importance unless one of the vessels or nerves running in its substance chance to be ' injured, but wounds of the duct may lead to a very troublesome salivary fistula. The gland is most often wounded from the cheek, but there are a few cases on record where the injurv has been associated with a wound of the mouth or pharynx. The fii-st indication of serious trouble in connection with a wound of the parotid is free hfemorrhage, and the surgeon must decide at once whether it is venous or arterial. Venous haemorrhage, even from the large tmnks runnmg through the parotid, can be stopped by pressure or judicious plugging of the wound ; severe ar- terial bleeding must be treated by operation. The direction and depth of the wound may afford some indication as to the vessel wounded, ' whether it is the vertebral, the internal carotid, the external carotid or some of its branches. If [ possible, the bleeding points should be secured I in the wound itself ; but if this be impracticable, the vertebral or the external carotid should be ligatured, and if necessary a temporary ligature should be placed roimd the common carotid, i When facial paralysis follows a wound of the gland, it becomes a question whether or not an attempt should be made to unite the divided | ends of the portio dura. I should be inclined, ' for my own part, to leave them alone. Extra i pains must always be taken in a wound of the parotid gland to ensure union by first intention. The edges of the incision should be accuratelv united, and the parts should be kept at rest for the first five days by forbidding the patient to talk, and by the administration of such food as will render mastication unnecessary. Stensen's duct is more often wounded by vertical cuts than by those which run parallel to its course. It is more often divided on the masseter, where it is comparatively fixed, than on the buccinator, where it is more movable. It is said that the duct has occasionally been ruptured without any external wound, but the recorded case is capable of another explanation. The open ends of the duct can easily be seen when the cheek is completely divided, but in the more usual incised wounds the nature of the injury is overlooked until the continuous flow of a clear fluid, poured out in increased quantity when the patient eats, enables a dia- gnosis to be made. A salivary fistula is the common result of the accident, but there is no doubt that such wounds occasionally heal with- out the formation of a fistula, and it occasionally happens that the proximal end of the duct be- comes obliterated, and atrophy of the gland results. Stenosis of the injured duct sometimes leads to the formation of a cyst filled with saliva, due to a yielding of the duct wall at the seat of injury, in much the same way as a traumatic aneurysm is produced. The immediate treat- ment consists in carefully suturing the parts, if the woimd is partial; or if it extends completely through the cheek, a fine drainage tube may be introduced from the buccal suz-face through both ends of the duct, whilst the external surface of the wound is carefully sutiured. IXFLAilMATORT CONDITIOXS The parotid gland is liable to all the ordinary forms of inflammation, acute and chronic, primary and secondary. The most common and best known form of acute infective parotitis is " Mumps," which has been considered already in a separate article (vol. vi. p. 473). A chronic inflammation of the gland sometimes begins as a catarrh of Stensen's duct, or of the duct of the socia parotidis, and such an inflammation is described by German pathologists under the term sialodochitis fibriiiosa, whilst the French speak of it as an acute ranula. Mr. Raymond Johnson has called attention to an interesting form which, as only a few lobides of the gland are inflamed, is comparable with the localised inflammations sometimes occurring in the mammary gland. Secondary inflammations of the parotid gland afford material for a very interesting study, as they cannot always be explained by the infective theory of disease. The relationship which exists between the parotid gland and the generative organs has been long known, in consequence of the metastatic inflammation which is often seen in mumps, where orchitis and mastitis, and more doubtfully ovarian inflammation, are recognised complications. A simple injury of the testis, and the introduction of a pessary into the vagina.