63 NIGHTMARE the sensation of suffocation or of falling through space. See Hysteria {Infantile); Night Terrors. Nig'htsha.de. See Belladonna. Nig'ht-Swea.tS. See Lungs, Tubercu- losis OF {Symptoms). Nig'ht Terrors (Payor Nocturnus). See also Mental Deficiency {Primarily Neu- rotic Type); Rheumatism in Children {Ner- vous Affections); Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Dreams). — Upon few, if any, subjects in medicine have such widely divergent opinions been expressed by accepted authorities as upon that of night terrors. And this diversity of opinion attaches not only to the etiology of the complaint and the other disorders with which it is associated, but also to the importance with which it is to be viewed in regard to the present and future states of the sufferers from it. As a proof of this the following opinions may be quoted :— Eustace Smith ascribes night terrors to di- gestive troubles, but lately has laid stress upon adenoids and other naso-pharyngeal disorders as factors in their causation. Warrington Haward attributes them to enlarged tonsils. Ringer considers them as arising from indigestion. Charles West agrees with this, although he says he has known serious brain trouble arising from them. Goodhart thinks them allied to somnambulism and nocturnal incontinence of urine. Moizard, Bouchet, Hesse, Soltmann, Silbermann, H. C. Wood, and others link them with epilepsy. Angel Money, too, calls them a form of cortical epilepsy. Donkin mentions them amongst the emotional and other nerve disturbances which are common in rheumatic children. He states that night terrors, espe- cially when frequent and accompanied by hallucinations, are often co-existent with and indicative of epilepsy; and further says, in his chapter on " Hysteria," that night terrors, with or without definite hallucinations described by the patient, are very common in hysterical children, but that they also occur occasionally in almost any child as the result of undue excitement and various kinds of nervous disturbance. In contrast to Donkin, Henoch says he lias seldom seen them in connection with either hysteria or epilepsy. Graham Little has found them most frequentlj'^ in rheumatic children suffering from morbus cordis. The examples given sufficiently testify to the strange diversity of opinion on the question of night terrors. They also make it manifest that it is beyond the bounds of possibility that these writers could all have had the same disorder under consideration at the times at which they wrote. The present writer has endeavoured to show that there are two widely differing dis- orders in which the expression of terror has been associated with disturbance of sleep, and that it has been a non-discrimination between these two disorders that has led to this inconsistency amongst the various authors on the subject. Of these two disorders, the one is comparatively rare, and due to central brain disturbance; the other is extremely common, reflex in nature, and arises from digestive troubles or partial asphyxia. It will be well to restrict the name of " night terrors " to the first disorder, which is of importance, as that name has been deemed worthy of a permanent place in medical nomen- clature ; in the second, which is of only trivial consequence, an appropriate title is that of " nightmare," since it has already been widely adopted by the laity for the complaint. There are several points of distinction between the two disorders, a cardinal one being that in night terrors the patient sees visions, in night- mare he merely dreams dreams. The other points of distinction can be briefly summarised as follows :— Night Terrors.—In this there is usually a neurotic family history, and not very infre- quently the patient himself has been the subject of convulsions or other nervous disorder. Boys are slightly more liable to the complaint than girls. The attacks are most common between the ages of two years and eight, and they seldom persist after the twelfth year. The attack com- mences suddenly, in the midst of apparently the soundest sleep, and the first indication is usually a piercing shriek. On being attended to, the child is found seemingly wide awake, and protesting against the presence of some imagin- ary person or thing which he imagines is in the room with him. The nature of the vision is usually a terrifying one, such as a negro or a black statue ; but in many cases, as in the aura of epilepsy, red plays a prominent part, and soldiers, blood, and fire are the objects com- plained of. Whatever be the nature of the vision, it is usually repeated in the same features in each attack, no matter how long the intervals between them. There is very seldom more than one attack in a night. In extremely ex- ceptional instances the vision is a pleasing one, or the hallucination may be one of hearing and not of sight. During the whole of the attack the patient is hardly, if at all, conscious of his surroundings, and before even vigorous attempts to render him so succeed, he sinks into a pro- found sleep. In the morning he has generally no recollection of anything unusual having happened during the night. Care will have to be exercised on this point, as young children are apt to appropriate as their personal experi- ence and knowledge any matters concerning themselves which may be mentioned in their hearing. Nightmare.—In this there is usually nothing special in the family history. A large per- centage of the patients are the subjects of adenoids or enlarged tonsils. In other cases it