26 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA A touch may be felt as pain or may excite neuralgic pain, but firm pressure may give relief. The pain is most intense at certain points; these spots are tender, and pressure upon them may induce a neuralgic attack (points of Valleix). Mostly they correspond to the place where a nerve-trunk passes out of a bony canal, over a hard structure, or through a fascia. Occasionally there is tenderness of a vertebral spine corresponding to the nerve origin. Paralysis and persistent anaesthesia do not occur in true neuralgia. Occasionally muscular spasm accompanies, or transient ansesthesia follows a paroxysm. Lachrymation, salivation, local sweating, local pallor followed by redness, may occur during an attack. Occasionally the hair becomes grey or falls off, and occasionally there is a slight local oedema after an attack. At the height of a paroxysm the pulse may be slow, and in rare cases vomiting has been re- corded. In cases of long duration the appetite is lost; general impairment of health and melan- cholia, with suicidal tendencies, may follow. Several forms of neuralgia are recognised according to their causation :—Anaemic, which is frequently in the first division of the fifth nerve, in the auriculo-temporal branch, or in the left infra-mammary region ; gouty ; diabetic, which often affects the third division of the fifth nerve, and is sometimes bilateral; malarial, which affects chiefly the first division of the fifth nerve, and which is periodic, occurring at intervals of one to four days; syphilitic ; in- fluenzal, which affects chiefly the first division of the fifth nerve; rheumatic ; degenerative, which occurs in old age, and is very persistent; hysterical; traumatic ; and herpetic. Trigeminal neuralgia (neuralgia of the fifth nerve, tic douloureux) is the most common form of the disease. It may affect all three branches of the fifth nerve, but more commonly only one or two divisions suffer. It is nearly always iinilateral (except in diabetes)- Often it is very intense, and may then radiate from one branch of the nerve to the next or to an adjacent nerve. Cold, contact, and movement may ex- cite an attack. Muscular spasm may occur in the face muscles when the pain is intense (tic convulsif). Flushing of the face, sweating, lachrymation, and increased flow of saliva and nasal mucus may be observed. Local greyness or loss of the hair and slight oedema of the face are occasional symptoms. In neuralgia of the first division (supra- orbital), pain radiates from the supra-orbital notch over the anterior half of the head, and also into the eye, and eyelid, and down the side of the nose. Tender spots are detected just above the supra-orbital notch, in the upper eye- lid, at the lower edge of the nasal bone, and sometimes in the eyeball. In neuralgia of the second division (infra- orbital), the pain is between the orbit and mouth. Tender spots are at the infra-orbital foramen, at the side of the nose, over the malar bone, and along the gums of the upper jaw. In neuralgia of the third division the pain often radiates widely: it may be felt in the lower jaw, tongue, parietal eminence, temple, and ear. Tender spots are over the inferior dental and mental foramina, just above the zygoma in front of the ear, over the parietal eminence, and in the tongue. Often separate branches of the fifth nerve are affected alone or chiefly, as the inferior dental, lingual, or auriculo-temporal. Epileptiform Neuralgia {Neuralgia Major).— This is the most obstinate and severe form of trigeminal neuralgia. The disease begins in the second half of life, and no cause can be detected. At first the pain is of ordinary severity, but in time it becomes most intense; it always begins in the area of distribution of the fifth nerve. Sometimes convulsive spasm of the facial muscles accompanies the pain. The attacks last for a second or two, or for a minute or more. They are often repeated frequently ; sometimes fifty or a hundred attacks occur daily. Cold, emotions, movement of the face, and even defsecation may bring on an attack. The patient often tries to relieve the pain by rubbing the face. Teeth are often removed without avail. Sleep is frequently impossible without the use of drugs. Food is taken with difficulty, and the general health in time be- comes impaired. Cervico-occipital neuralgia is rare ; it involves the posterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves, especially the great occipital nerve. There are tender points midway between the mastoid process and the first cervical vertebra and between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius. The pain is less violent than in trigeminal neuralgia. Brachial neuralgia and neuralgia of the phrenic nerve are described in the articles on the "Brachial Plexus," vol i., and on the " Diaphragm," vol. ii. Intercostal neuralgia is often due to cold; it also occurs in hysteria and anaemia. In the latter condition it is chiefly left-sided and in the infra-mammary region. Tender points are near the vertebra, near the third mid-axillary line, and near the middle line in front. {See also Mastodynia, article "Mammary Gland," vol. vi.) In lumbo-abdominal neuralgia the pain is in the lumbar region, lower part of abdomen, and groin. Tender points are over the middle of the iliac crest, in the hypogastrium, scrotum (or labia). Occasionally the neuralgia follows the distribution of the crural nerve in the thigh. Both these forms of pain are frequently second- ary to organic disease, and not truly neuralgic. For description of other forms of neuralgia see articles on " Coccygodynia," "Sciatica,"