569 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Around this area is a zone, lesions in which cause disturbances in vision less profound in character than those produced in the region of the calcarine fissvire. The zone has a character- istic cell arrangement, but no line of Gennari. It is very slightly developed in lower mammals, but becomes well marked in the primates and especially in man. It is supplied with associ- ating fibres joining it to the last area, and these fibres become medullated at a comparatively late date. It would seem as if this were the region in which the simple visual sensations become asso- ciated with the stored passed experiences so as Fig. 109.—To show the mapping out of the cerebral cortex on its outer and inner aspects into areas by the character and distribution of the cells and fibres. (Campbell.) to give rise to the perception of the significance of these sensations. It has been termed the visuo-psychic area of the cortex (Fig. 109). The visuo-sensory area is united by a strong- band through the middle cerebral peduncle with the cerebellum (see p. 561), and from it a strong band of fibres passes to an area in the frontal region, concerned with the movements of the eyes, and also connected with the cere- bellum through the peduncle. While there is good evidence that a special localised area of the cortex is connected with the reception of stimuli from the eyes, the evidence of the existence of similar areas or centres con- nected with the other organs of special sense is not so satisfactory. Auditor!/ Centre.—Ferrier, by removing the superior temporo-sphenoidal lobe in the monkey, produced no motor disturbance, but found evi- dence of loss of hearing in the opposite ear. When the region was stimulated he found that the monkey pricked up its ears, and looked to the opposite side, and he considered that these observations prove the existence of a special localised mechanism for the reception of stimuli from the ear. Schafer has removed these con- volutions from both sides in the monkey, with aseptic precautions, and kept the animal alive. He failed to find evidence of loss of auditory sensations. Stimulation of the ear in such animals still caused the usual muscular response. But since lower connections exist between the auditory nuclei in the medulla and the centres for muscular ^^^^ movement in the spinal cord (Figs. 80 and 81), this observation cannot be ac- cepted as excluding the I'elationship of the superior temporo - sphenoidal con- volution to hearing. The existence of such a relationship is strongly supported by pathological evidence. Cases of epi- lepsy have been recorded in which the first symptom of the fit was the hearing of sounds, and in which the lesion was found in this lobe. The limits of this centre are defined by a characteristic cell distribution (Fig. 109), and around it is an area with a somewhat different cell arrange- ment, which is probably the psycho- auditory region (Fig. 109)—the region in which the changes in the central region connected with the production of simple sensation are associated with the stored passed impressions to enable the nature of the sensation to be compre- hended. The central sensory area is early supplied by medullated fibres (Fig. 108b). Taste and Smell.—The intimate re- lationship of these senses renders it probable that their centres are closely associated in the cortex. A study of the development of the olfactory mechanism throughout the mammalian series throws considerable light upon the position of the cortical centre. Many mammals depend very largely upon the sense of smell in their relationship with the external, while others, e.g. man, use it less, and the cetacea do not use it at all. In the first group, the osmatic mammals, the olfactory bulbs and tracts are enormously developed. Each bulb terminates behind in three roots, the inmost sending fibres across to the opposite side (Fig. 49, iv.), the others sending fibres to a part of the cortex at the base of brain just outside the olfactory tracts (Fig. 49, iii.). In man and apes, from the development of the