533 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM (b) For Vibration of Ether.—Sense of Sight. —A. General Considerations.—While the addition to and withdrawal from the surface of the body of the slower ethereal waves which are the basis of heat act upon the special nerve terminations in the skin to give rise to sensations of heat and cold, a certain range of more rapid vibrations act specially upon the nerve endings in the eye to produce molecular changes which in turn affect the centres in the brain, and play a most important part in the adjustment of movements for the benefit of the body and which give rise to changes in consciousness which we call sight. The range of vibrations which can act in this way is comparatively limited, the slowest being about 435 billions per second, the most rapid about 764 billions. Vibrations more rapid than this, which are capable of setting up chemical changes, as in photography, do not produce visual sensations. The action of light upon the protoplasm of lower organisms has been already considered (p. 493), and it has been seen that it may be 3ither general or unilateral, producing the phenomena of positive and negative phototaxis. tn more complex animals special sets of cells are set apart to be acted on by light, and these ire generally imbedded in pigmented cells to prevent the passage of light through the proto- plasm. Such an accumulation of cells consti- :utes an eye, and in the simpler organisms such m eye can have no further function than to 5nable the presence or absence of light or i'arious degrees of illumination to produce their jffects. But in the higher animals these cells are so irranged that certain of them are stimulated 3j light coming in one direction, others are stimulated by light coming in another, and Nhile the former are connected with one set of synapses in the brain, the latter are connected vith another. Thus light coming from one point will stimulate one set of cells which will jxcite one part of the brain, and light from mother will act upon other cells which will jxcite another part of the brain, and thus not nerely the degree of illumination but the source )f illumination becomes distinguishable. It is by this arrangement that it becomes 3ossible to form ideas of the shape of external )bjects. One directs the eye to the corner of ;he ceiling, and the idea that it is a corner is iue to the fact that three different degrees of llumination are appreciated, and that these can 3e localised—one above, one to the right, and )ne to the left. One set of cells is stimulated ;o one degree, another set of cells to another iegree, and a third set of cells to a third degree ; md the different stimulation of these different sets of cells leads to a different excitation of separate sets of neurons in the brain. These jhanges in the brain are accompanied by the perception of the three parts differently illu- minated. From the previous training of the nervous system we are taught to interpret this as due to a corner. But this interpretation is simply a judgment based upon the sensations, and it may or may not be right, and instead of actually looking at a corner we may be looking at the picture of one. From the very first it must be remembered that the modification of our consciousness which we call vision is not directly due to external conditions, but is a result of changes set up in our brain. We do not perceive the object we are looking at, but simply the changes in our brain produced by changes in the eye set up by rays of light coming from the object. Usually such changes are set up by a certain range of vibrations of the ether, but they may be set up in other ways—e.g. by the mechanical stimulation of a blow on the eye; but, how- ever set up, they give rise to the same kind of changes in consciousness—visual sensation. This fact has been formulated in the doctrine of specific nerve energy, that different varieties of stimuli applied to the same organ of sense always produce the same kind of sensation. And the converse that the same stimulus applied to different organs of sense produces a different kind of sensation for each also holds good. The visual mechanism not only gives the power of appreciating the degree and source of illumination, but also of appreciating colour. Physically the different colours are simply different rates of vibration of the ether, physio- logically they are different kinds of sensations produced by different modes of stimulation of the eye. The slowest visible vibrations produce changes accompanied by a sensation which we call red, the most rapid vibrations produce different changes which we call violet. But, as will be afterwards shown, these sensations may be produced by other modes of stimulating the eye. The visual mechanism in this way gives a flat picture of the outer world, and from this flat picture we have to form judgments of the size, distance, and thickness of the bodies looked at. The idea of size is based upon the extent of the eye-cells stimulated by the light coming from the object. If a large surface is acted upon, the object seems large; if a small surface the object seems small. But the extent of eye- cells acted on depends not merely upon the size of the object, but also upon its distance from the eye, since the further the object is from the eye the smaller is the image formed. Hence, our ideas of size are judgments based upon the size of the picture in the eye, and the appreciation of the distance of the object. The distance of an object, when over fifty or sixty metres from the eye, and very probably even when over as little as six metres, is judged by the modifica-