PARALYSIS 270 be connected with its later appearance in evolu- tion. Consequently a derogatory influence, such as progressive pressure upon the spinal cord or local vascular degeneration, will abrogate the functions of the pyramidal tracts first and most, though all the elements of the marrow may be exposed to the harmful influence. When recovery takes place again the pyramidal tracts are the last structures to regain their physiological activity. A lesion gradual in onset and slowly progressive, which affects the whole spinal cord at one point—such, for instance, as a collection of tubercular material, or a tumour pressing upon the spinal cord—will affect the various structures, and produce symptoms in an order which is for the most part constant. Firstly, the pyramidal tracts are affected, and loss of power, with rigidity and increase of the deep reflexes, ap- peal's. The tracts subserving the muscular sense and sense of passive position are the next to fail, and ataxy, with loss of sense of position, results. The paths by which sphincters are voluntarily controlled are deranged later, and retention of urine and constipation with involuntary sphincter action occur. Last of all, the undefined tracts of general sensibility are interrupted, and anaesthesia of common sensibility is produced. There is still one further stage—that where all the conducting functions of the spinal cord are lost at the place of injury, the connection of the higher parts of the nervous system with that part of the spinal cord below the seat of the lesion is cut, and muscular tonus in the paraplegic area is lost. The previous aspect of spasticity with increased deep reflexes changes at once to flaccid paraplegia with loss of the deep reflexes. The supervention of a stage of flaccidity in spastic paraplegia due to pressure is of the gravest significance, for recovery is possible, indeed not improbable, in many cases where motor paralysis is absolute and anaesthesia complete, even though this condition may have existed for weeks or months, if there is still spasticity; but when the flaccid stage has set in, complete recovery becomes impossible after a few days. The symptoms disappear in the reverse order when recovery takes place, except that sphincter trouble is apt to remain longest. For instance, a case in which a tumour pressed upon the mid-dorsal cord presented the above sequence of symptoms during a period of two months. Four days after the paralysis and anaesthesia had become complete, flaccidity with loss of the deep reflexes set in. Three days later the tumour was removed. After the operation the knee-jerks returned upon the third day; there was marked spasticity on the seventh day. The first sign of returning sensibility was noticed on the seventeenth day, the first voluntary move- ment on the thirty-fourth day, and some sphincter trouble lasted for three months. This patient returned to farm labour seven months after the operation with no abnormal physical signs. In addition to these symptoms, the lesion producing spastic paraplegia may give rise to local manifestations of great importance in de- termining the location and pathological nature of the disease. The anterior horns of the grey matter or the anterior roots may be involved, and local muscular wasting and paralysis, with changes of the electrical excitability of the muscles, may result in the region immediately above the paraplegic zone. The posterior roots and their prolongations may be affected, and ansesthesia of nerve-root distribution, areas of hypereesthesia, pains radiating along the course of certain nerves, girdle sensation, and occasion- ally herpes zoster may result. If the lesion be situated in the cervical region, or implicate the first thoracic nerve root, changes in the pupil, in the width of the palpebral aperture, and vascular disturbances of the face may result. When spastic paraplegia results from widely- spread disease of the nervous system, as in disseminated sclerosis, general paralysis, and syringomyelia, it is not as a rule sharply limited, often not of severe degree, and is sooner or later accompanied by some of the multitudinous symptoms of these diseases. Acute processes affecting the spinal cord locally, such as acute myelitis, hsematomyelia, fractured dislocation of the spine, and gunshot and punctured wounds, except in cases of the slightest severity, produce at first a condition of flaccid paralysis with loss of the deep reflexes, from which in the course of a few hours or days spastic paraplegia develops. Such initial flac- cidity may be explained by the phenomenon of shock as a condition of inhibition, or it may be presumed that a temporary complete physio- logical interruption of all the conducting ele- ments of the spinal cord occurs without com- plete anatomical destruction as a result of the lesion, and that such elements as i-etain their anatomical continuity speedily regain their function. When, however, complete anatomical destruc- tion occurs, the paraplegia remains flaccid and the deep reflexes are absent in the paraplegic region. It must, however, be remarked that if after a total lesion of the cord a patient live many months, he may ultimately regain the deep reflexes, and some slight signs of spasticity may return. It is possible that this rare occur- rence may be due either to the regeneration of fibres reproducing continuity of the severed cord, or to the resumption of such autonomy by the grey matter of the distal part of the spinal cord as exists in the lower animals. Motor System.—Where spastic paraplegia is of gradual onset, as in the majority of cases, loss of power shows itself, firstly, in the periphery of the limbs, and as a general rule the extensor muscles, abductor muscles, and external rotator