197 OTHEMATOMA Othsematoma.—Hsematoma Auris (q.V.). Otic.—Relating to the ear (Gr. o?s, the ear), e.g. the otic ganghon; otiatrics is aural medicine and surgery. Otitis.—Inflammation of the ear. Otitis Externa. See Ear, External, Diseases of [Infiammation of the External Meatus). Otitis Interna. See Auditory Nerve AND Labyrinth {Inflammation). Otitis Media. See Ear, Acute and Chronic Inflammation of the Middle Ear. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nature of Lesion); Facial Nerve, Paralysis OF (Etiology); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Chronic Diarrhoea, Complications); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Complications, Otitis Media); Measles {Complications, Otitis Media); Meninges of the Cerebrum {Acute Meningitis, Diagnosis); Pneumonia, Clinical {Complica- tions, Otitis Media); Scarlet Fever {Complica- tions, Ear); Syphilis {In Children, Ear); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelae, Aural). OtO-.—In compound words oto- (Gr. oSs, the ear) means relating to the ear. Otocephaly.—A teratological type in which the external ears are approximated or united in the middle line; there is atrophy of the lower part of the head, and the jaws and a great part of the face may be absent; the combination of otocephaly with cyclopia con- stitutes cyclotia. Otoconia.—Crystals of carbonate of lime found adhering to the maculae in the mem- branous labyrinth of the ear ; otoliths. OtOCyst. — The auditory vesicle of the embryo. See Embryology. Otodynia.—Pain in the ear; otalgia. Otoliths. — Calcareous nodules found within the membranous labyrinth of the in- ternal ear. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear). OtolOg'y.—The science of the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the ear. Otomycosis.—Aural morbid conditions due to the presence and growth of fungi in the ear. See Ear, External, Diseases of {Para- sitic Otitis Externa); Otorrhcea ; Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Otomycosis). Otophone.—An ear-trumpet. Otopiesis.—^Depression of the tympanic membrane from atmospheric pressure due to rarefaction of the air in the cavity of the tympanum, leading to deafness. Otorrhag'ia.—Haemorrhage from the ear. See Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation, Aural). Otorrhcea is a symptom of disease in the outer or middle ear and its annexa. It is most commonly dependent on an acute or chronic inflammation in the tympanum—conditions de- scribed in an earlier part of this work (vol. ii.). The present article deals with the symptoms per se, and the manner in which otorrhcea has to be studied and treated. Under normal conditions the bacteria present in the outer and middle ear exist as saprophytes and have no pathogenic significance, but it is otherwise in diseased states of the ear and as- sociated mucous membranes of the Eustachian tube and naso-pharynx, in which we have cir- cumstances favourable to their further develop- ment and activity. The diseases of the outer ear attended by otorrhcea can be shortly dis- missed. It may be dependent on the presence of a foreign body in the meatus ; in investigating this point, care must be exercised to determine the presence of any small foreign body far in the meatus next the membrane at its anterior part. Or it may be due to an inflammatory condition of the cutaneous lining membrane, such as is present in cases of eczema or parasitic otitis externa (otomycosis). In yet other in- stances it may be traumatic in origin. But it matters not which of these conditions has been the starting-point of the disorder; the important point to bear in mind is that in every case we are dealing with a local bacterial infection. Bearing this in mind, the treatment is simple and calls for little comment. The removal of any foreign body must be effected ; the meatus should be syringed with a non-irritating anti- septic solution, with a frequency proportionate to the severity of the case, and thereafter the meatus should be carefully dried with a pledget of antiseptic cotton-wool. This is best done by the use of a wooden match, the end of which is encircled by the wool and inserted carefully into the ear. Dryness is inimical to bacterial growth. In bad cases it may be desirable to counter-irritate the diseased surface by silver nitrate -—^—^ or other stimulant, with the grs. to 3 object of inducing a more favourable local reaction. No further local measures are called for. The cases dependent on chronic disease in the middle ear are more serious, and correspondingly more difficult to treat. The clinical history of these patients is usually perfectly clear, and leaves no room for difficulty in the diagnosis ; and while in the majority the course of the otorrhcea is a simple one, and the treatment equally simple and satisfactory, in other cases