520 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM wards to the muscle or upwards from the muscle. These have been formulated as Pfliiger's Law; but since they have no bearing upon the stimulation of unexposed nerves in the living body they need not here be considered. By using the electric changes as an index of nerve action, it has been found that when a neuron is stimulated in the middle, the change travels in both directions, although its result is made manifest only by the action of the structure at one end on which it normally acts. This two-way conduction may also be demon- strated by the experiment of paradoxical con- traction, in which, by stimulating the branch of the sciatic nerve of the frog going to the muscles of the thigh, the nerve fibres to the gastrocnemius lying alongside of them are also stimulated, and cause that muscle to contract. That this does not occur when impulses from the central nervous system pass along the nerve is because the strength of these impulses, as indicated by the electrical change, are very much weaker than those caused by direct stimulation. Classification of Neihrons by the Direction of Conduction.—Since a nerve is normally stimu- lated from one or other end, and hence conducts in one direction, and since the passage of im- pulses along it are made manifest by changes in the structure to which it goes, it is possible to classify nerve fibres according to whether they conduct to or from the central nervous system, and according to the structure upon which they act. To find out the direction of conduction and the special mode of action of any nerve, two methods of investigation are employed. \st. The nerve may be cut, and the results of section studied. 2nd. The nerve may be stimulated, and the result of stimulation noted. Usually these methods are used in conjunc- tion ; first, the nerve is cut, and when the changes thus produced have been noted, the upper end and the lower end of the cut nerve are stimulated. It is, of course, only if a nerve is constantly transmitting impulses that section reveals any change. If the nerve is not constantly active, stimulation alone will teach anything of its functions. Outgoing or Efferent Nerves.—Section of cer- tain nerves produces a change of action in muscles, glands, etc., or, if the nerve is not constantly acting, stimulation of the peripheral end of the cut nerve causes some change in the activity of these structures. Stimulation of the central end of such nerves produces no effect. These nerves therefore conduct impulses from the central nervous system outward. Many of these nerves produce an increase on the activity of the parts to which they go, but others diminish or inhibit activity. The former class may be called augmentor nerves, the latter inhibitory nerves. The augmentor nerves may further be divided into groups according to the structures upon which they act. Those acting on muscle may be called motor nerves; those acting to cause secretion from a gland, secretory nerves; those acting to constrict blood-vessels vaso-constrictor nerves. The inhibitory nerves may be similarly sub- divided into musculo-inhibitory, secreto-inhibi- tory, and vaso-inhibitory nerves. Ingoing or Afferent Nerves. — Section of another set of nerves may produce loss of sensation in some part of the body. When the peripheral end of the cut nerve is stimulated no result is obtained. When the central end is stimulated, sensations or some kind of action results. Such nerves obviously conduct to the central nervous system. Those which, when stimulated, give rise to sensations may be called sensory; those which give rise to some action are called excito-refiex, because the action which results is produced by what is called reflex action. But these are not distinct from one another, and a nerve which at one time when stimulated will cause a sensation, may at another time cause a reflex action without sensation. As an example of such a nerve we may take the branches of the fifth cranial nerve which pass to the conjunctiva of the eye. When the con- junctiva is touched—i.e. when this nerve is stimulated — the orbicularis palpebrarum is brought into action through the seventh cranial nerve, and the eye is closed. The conjunctival branch of the fifth cranial nerve is thus an excito-motor nerve. When the terminations of the lingual branch of the fifth nerve in the tongue are stimulated the result is a free flow of saliva, through the action of the seventh nerve and the secretory branches of the glosso-pharyngeal. The lingual nerve is thus excito-secretory. Stimulation of the nerves from any part— e.g. by a mustard blister—causes relaxation of the blood-vessels of the part, and such afi"erent nerves may be called excito-vaso-inhibitory. Many nerves of the body contain both afi'erent and efferent nerve fibres, and are called mixed nerves. The passage of excitation from one neuron to others in such actions occupies a very appreciable time. In the case of reflex closure of the eye, about 06 second elapses between the touching of the eye and the resulting " wink." Knowing the rate at which nerve changes pass along nerves, and knowing the length of the ingoing and of the outgoing neurons, the time taken in the passage of the change along these is readily calculated. In a reflex wink it is about "01 second. Hence only one-sixth of the total "latent