418 PERITONEUM against each other, and the lines of injection represent the angles between adjacent coils, where the pressure is least. They are some- times, for this reason, called suction - lines. Flakes of lymph also collect in this situation. They vary in thickness, and can at first be detached from the membrane lying under them. The microscopic changes are the same as those enumerated by MetschnikofF in his classical description of inflannnation. Dilatation and stasis occiir in the small vessels, and there is an exudation of lymph and migration of leuco- cytes through the vessel walls into the sur- rounding spaces. The exudate consists of a network of fibrin with white blood corpuscles in its meshes. At first it forms milky flakes, which later may become grey or greenish. Membranous adhesions are formed between opposed surfaces, and are gradually drawn out by the movements of the viscera into cords and bands. When the acute stage is over, the inflamma- tory products are either entirely absorbed or become partly " organised" into scar tissue, which contracts in the usual way. It is usual to describe three forms of perito- nitis separately, although in practice they are constantly met in combination, especially in cases of tubercular peritonitis. They are respectively— (1) Dry, adhesive, or fibrinous peritonitis. (2) Serous peritonitis. (3) Suppurative peritonitis. Adhesive Peritonitis.—-The adhesions may be so soft as to be easily broken down by the finger, or tough enough to resist cutting by a knife. They may form the merest tags attached to organs, or they may bind all the abdominal contents into an inextricable mass. In the early stages, by helping localisation they are of infinite service; later, when they contract, they cause all kinds of trouble by the pressure they exert on nerves and other structures, and by interfering with the proper movements of the viscera. Chronic cases, in which the de- formity is extreme, are known as cases of peritonitis deformans. The omentum may be enormously thickened and rolled up, the mesen- tery is shortened, and all the organs firmly bound down, with resulting loss of mobility and pain. Serous Peritonitis. — In the sero - fibrinous variety the quantity of fluid varies greatly in amount; according to Osier, from \ litre to 30 or 40 litres. In simple acute peritonitis the quantity of serous exudation is generally small. In carcinomatous infiltration of the membrane and in tubercular peritonitis it may be considerable. It is clear or cloudy, according to the proportion of contained leucocytes. In some of the acute cases the distended vessels rupture, when a blood-stained exudation results, while occasionally a markedly hsemorrhagic effusion occurs in cancerous and tubercular peritonitis. If there is perforation of the ali- mentary tract, the contents of the stomach or gut are mixed with the fluid and alter its character. Picrulent Peritonitis. — A general purulent peritonitis is rare, although sero-purulent effu- sions, often very copious, may occur in general peritonitis. With intense general sepsis, death takes place very rapidly from absorption, usually before the tissues have had time to react com- pletely with resultant pus formation. This, no doubt, is the reason why general purulent peritonitis is rare. Circumscribed abscesses, however, are very common in the outlying parts of the abdomen in connection with the parietal layer of the peritoneum and the colon ; for example, about the appendix, in the vault of the diaphragm, forming the so-called sub- phrenic abscess, and in the pelvis. Bacteriology.—A large number of organisms are associated with peritonitis, and in the majority of cases the infection must be re- garded as a mixed one. Pyogenic organisms head the list, streptococci being by far the most important, (Tavel and Lanz found them in three-fourths of their cases.) Staphylococci are much less virulent, and rarely occur except in combination with streptococci. Streptococci are the active agents in cases of peritonitis arising from external infection, from perforative wounds of the abdominal wall, from contamination during operations, in puerperal septicaemia, and occasionally also In association with cutaneous erysipelas. The fact, however, that the superficial lymphatics of the abdominal wall do not communicate with the deep system of peritoneal lymphatics prevents this from being a common accident. The cases due to infection from the alimentary tract are of great interest. Peritonitis follows perforation of the alimentary canal, but it also occurs in cases in which, although the gut-wall is injured, no perforation has occurred; for example, in vol- vulus, strangulated hernia, and non-perforative appendicitis. Cultures made in the ordinary way from the inflammatory exudation in these cases almost invariably give pure growths of the bacillus coli communis, or at any rate show growths in which colonies of this bacillus pre- ponderate. The bacillus has been cultivated in this way from the fluid in the sac of a strangu- lated hernia, and from the peritoneal exudation in cases of non-perforative peritonitis. Hawkins prepared stained sections of the appendix wall in cases of non-perforative appen- dicitis, which had nevertheless caused fatal general peritonitis, and which he included under the heading of infective appendicitis. He showed that bacilli were present on the peri- toneal surface of the wall, instead of being restricted to the inner surface of the gut as