AND PELVIC FLOOR PELVIS—PERINEUM 384 vaginal wall occupy almost their normal position. It must be remembered that prolapsus uteri can occur without rectocele, and as a rule does so; also that rectocele can occur without pro- lapse, and that the two conditions may exist ? Fio. 5.—Rectocele. (Hart and Barbour.) together. The use of a ring pessary with a diaphragm, or a Hodge pessary with transverse bars, together with regular evacuations of the rectum, will relieve the condition as a rule. If the perineum is so torn that a pessary will not stay in position, the tear may be repaired by operation, and a pessary may then be worn. But if operative treatment be required the cure should be radical, and the pessary should be unnecessary. In some cases it is sufficient to tunnel well up between the rectal and vaginal walls when operating as above described (see Perineal Tears), and by stitching to throw the vaginal wall into one or two deep folds running upward from the perineal body. In other cases posterior colporraphy should be per- formed, a considerable portion of the posterior vaginal wall being removed so as to both narrow and shorten it. This is followed by perineor- raphy. Other cases are best treated by rawing a triangular surface on each side of the rectocele and closing these by folding each on itself ("Emmett's Operation"). The bases of these triangles are continuous with the ends of the wound by which the perineum is subsequently repaired. Lesions in which both Fixed and Movable Postures of the Pelvic Floor are In- volved 1. Prolapsus Uteri or Sacro-pubic Hernia.— " Prolapse of the uterus " is " not a mere uterine descent, but a downward displacement of the abdominal and pelvic viscera, along with the entire displaceable portion of the pelvic floor." It is thus a form of hernia {see Fig. 3). The movable portion of the pelvic floor, with the uterus and appendages, slides down upon the fixed portion, till a sac, lined by peritoneum and containing small intestine, is formed. Three sets of causes combine to produce this condition :— 1. Laxity and want of tone in the movable portion of the pelvic floor and in the ring of loose connective tissue which unites it with the fixed portion. 2. Impairment of function of the fixed portion as a supporting structure due to injury or to general laxity. 3. All circumstances which increase the intra- abdominal pressure which has to be resisted by the pelvic floor. All circumstances which fall under headings 1 and 2 weaken the resistance of the pelvic floor. Fig. 6.—Prolapsus uteri. The displaced "movable portion " is shaded black, a, peritoneum ; b, bladder wall ; c, uterus ; d, anterior vaginal wall; «, rectal wall; /, perineal body (torn) ; g, posterior vaginal wall. The horizontal lines show the sac which is occupied by intestine. (Hart and Barbour.) Those falling under heading 3 increase the dis- placing force to be resisted, and these latter are therefore the positive or prime causes of prolapse. In a few cases congenital weakness of certain pelvic structures must be recognised as a pre- disposing cause, as instances occur in which young women who have never been pregnant gradually or suddenly develop prolapsus after lifting weights or making unusual muscular efforts. Injuries received during parturition are, however, by far the commonest causes of lessened resistance on the part of the pelvic floor. In- creased intra-abdominal pressure is occasionally due to the presence of abdominal tumours and other pathological conditions. In general, however, it is lifting heavy objects which in- creases the strain put upon the pelvic structures weakened by parturition. The abuse of the corset is an important cause of increased intra-