568 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Visual Centre.—The way in which the fibres, coming from the two retinae, are connected with each thalamus opticus and occipital lobe has been already considered, and it has been shown that the optic tract passes into the geniculate ,9 Fig. 108a.—To show Flechsig's primary projection areas on the inner aspect of the cerebral cortex (See text.) (Howell.) bodies on the posterior aspect of the thalamus, and that a strong band of fibres, the optic radiation, extends from these backwards to the occipital lobes (Fig. 73, p. 544). An extensive lesion of one—say of cells (Fig. 109). This arrangement becomes more and more defined as we pass from the simpler mammals with separate vision for the two eyes to the primates with combined vision with the two eyes. Probably each part of the centre is con- / , nected with definite ^ parts of the two retinae. Certain it is that there is no part of this cortical mech- anism connected with the blind spot, and hence this is not per- ceived in ordinary vision. Colour perception seems to be a less fundamental function of the visual appar- atus than perception of the degree and direction of illumina- tion, and hence colour perception may be lost in cases of com- paratively slight lesions of the occipital lobes without the other functions being im- paired. One of the most recently acquired functions of the mechanism is the power of appreciating the significance of the signs used the right ■— occipital lobe, especially if on the inner aspect round the calcarine fissure, is accompanied by no loss of muscular power but by blindness for all objects in the op- posite side of the field of vision — i.e. the right side of each retina is blind. The central spot of neither eye is completely blinded because the fibres from the macula lutea only partially decussate at the chiasma. Stimulation in this region causes move- ment of the eyes to the opposite side, as if some object were perceived there. Histologically this area is characterised by a well-defined band of white fibres between the layer of stellate cells and the internal layer of pyramidal cells, the band of Gennari (Fig. 104, G, p. 564), and by a characteristic arrangement •v^....-fc- no. lOSB.—To show Flechsig's primary projection areas on the outer aspect of the cerebral cortex. (See text.) (Howell.) in written language, and it is found that in small and superficial lesions this function may alone be lost. Flechsig finds that this area is supplied by a band of fibres which very early get tlieir myelin slieath (Fig. 108a, 5).