532 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM dendritic termination of the nerves from the mouth are connected, each group of cells being surrounded by a series of flat epithelial cells like the staves of a barrel to form a taste bulb. These taste bulbs are most abundant at the back of the tongue, on the sides of the large circumvallate papillee which form the promi- nent V-shaped line on the posterior part of the dorsum. 2. Connections with the Central Nervous System.—-The posterior third of the tongue is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The anterior two-thirds are supplied by the lingual of the fifth and the chorda tympani of the seventh. It has been maintained that all these fibres enter the medulla by way of the Gasserian ganglions and the root of the fifth nerve; but the study of cases in which the ganglion has been removed does not support this view, and the evidence seems to indicate that the fibres enter the medulla by the roots of the nerve in which they run. The position of the receiving centre in the brain is considered on p. 569. 3. Physiology.—As to the way in which this mechanism is stimulated our knowledge is very imperfect. In order to act, the sub- stance must be in solution. The strength of the sensation depends on the concentration of the solution, upon the extent of the surface of the tongue acted upon, upon the duration of the action, and upon the temperature of the solution. If the temperature is very high or very low the taste sensation is im- paired by the feelings of cold or heat. It is most difficult to classify the many various taste sensations which may be ex- perienced, but they may roughly be divided into four main groups :— 1. Sweet. 3. Acid. 2. Bitter. 4. Saline. Whether different sets of terminations react specially to each of these is not known, but it has been found that substances giving rise to the sensation which we call bitter act best on the back of the tongue, while substances pro- ducing sweet or acid sensations act on the sides and front. Again, chewing the leaves of gymnema sylvestre abolishes sensations of sweet and bitter, but does not interfere with those of acid and saline, and leaves the tactile sense unimpaired. On the other hand, cocaine para- lyses the tactile sense before it interferes with the sense of taste. The sense of taste is very closely connected with the sense of smell, and, when the latter is inter- fered with, many substances seem tasteless which under normal conditions have a marked flavour. Distance Receptors (a) For Chemical Stimuli.—Sense of Smell. —Smell, as Sherrington puts it, is taste at a distance. Just as the taste organs are stimu- lated by substances taken into the mouth, so the olfactory organs are stimulated by volatile substances inhaled through the nose. The olfactory organs are the most funda- mental of all distance receptors, and they play a most important part in the life of the lower animals in guiding them to their food and re- pelling them from danger, in causing positive and negative chemiotaxis. 1. Receptors.—Over the upper part of the nasal cavity the columnar epithelial cells are devoid of cilia, and between them are placed spindle-shaped cells (Fig. 49, A), which send processes through the mucous membrane, and through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid into the olfactory bulb, /. In the bulb these neurons form synapses, B, with other neurons, C, the axons of which pass to the base of the olfactory tracts. 2. Connections ivith the Central Nervous System.—The connections of the olfactory fibres with the cortical centre in the uncinate gyrus {see p. 569) is shown in Fig. 49, ///. 3. Physiology.—Stimulation of Mechanism.— To act upon the olfactory mechanism the sub- stance must be volatile, and must be suspended in the air. In this condition infinitesimal quantities of such substances as musk are capable of producing powerful sensations. The mucous membrane must be moist, and this is secured by the activity of Bowman's glands, situated in the mucous membrane. These are under the control of the fifth cranial nerve, and section of this leads indirectly to loss of the sense of smell through dryness of the membrane. FIG. 49.—The connections of the olfactory fibres. A, Olfactory cells; B, synapses in the olfactory bulb, /. ; //., olfactory tracts; III., olfactory centre ; decussation of fibres. (Howell.)