320 PARALYSIS returning to its former position again. This change in the skin is attributed to tiiickening of the subcutaneous tissue. Subjective Sensations.—Patients complain of various subjective sensations, the most frequent being the sensation of heat, so that many of them cannot even bear the weight of the bed- clothes. Exacerbations of these sensations of heat frequently occur. They also complain of rheumatic and neuralgic pains in various parts of the body, and often desire to have changed or to change their position in bed. If the temperature is examined during one of these heat attacks, no elevation of the central temperature is found, but the peripheral tem- perature may be raised 1 to 2 degrees. It has been suggested that the constant muscular con- tractions give rise to this increase of peripheral temperature. There is no impairment of any foi'm of sensation. The organs of sense are nearly always intact, though some alteration in vision has been de- scribed, such as transient amblyopia and con- traction of the fields of vision. The movements of the eye remain unaffected, and are moved quickly, but the head is moved slowly, so that if a patient is asked to look in a certain direc- tion he turns the eyes, but not the head. The sphincters are unaffected, and there are no trophic disturbances of the skin. The muscles do not atrophy, nor do they show any electrical change. The skin reflexes are normal, the knee- jerks are not exaggerated in spite of the rigidity of the limbs, there is no ankle clonus, and the plantar reflex gixes a flexor response. The urine is normal, although it is stated that there is an excess of phosphates passed. The mental faculties of the patients remain good, although they are liable to attacks of depression, and may become suicidal, and to- wards the end of the disease they may suffer from delusions and delirium. During the latter stages of the disease the patients waste and become extremely thin, they lie absolutely help- less in bed, and bedsores may form over the sacrum. They succumb either to general asthenia or to some intercurrent disease such as pneumonia. Pathological Anatomy.—Many of the patho- logical conditions described by older writers cannot be regarded as of value, since they did not distinguish between such diseases as dis- seminated sclerosis and paralysis agitans, and the changes described were of such a gross nature that had they been commonly present they would have been verified by more recent observations. The results of examinations by modern methods have either been negative or but slight changes have been discovered. Among the changes that have been described are hyper- plasia of the connective tissue, with thickening of the walls of the finer vessels, increase of nuclei. and small islets of connective tissue which spread inwards from the surface of the cord, sclerosis of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord, pigmentation or atrophy of the anterior horn cells, and varicosity of the axis cylinders. The central canal of the spinal cord has been obliter- ated in some cases, and in others dilatation of the capillaries and small extravasations of blood have been found. Changes in the peripheral nerves have also been described. In some cases no changes have been found in the central or peripheral parts of the nervous system, but the muscles have shown both hyper- trophy and atrophy of fibres, with proliferation of the connective tissue. The following are the changes that the most recent histological methods have revealed :—The cells of the anterior horns markedly pigmented, rounded, and granular; the nerve fibres in the posterior columns and peripheral nerves de- genei'ated to some extent; the muscle fibres in part atrophied, and in part fatty or hyaline ; the interstitial tissue in the cord, peripheral nerves, and muscles increased ; the vessel walls thickened and the glial tissue increased. In two cases we have had the opportunity of examining the changes that were found were marked pig- mentation of the cells of the brain and spinal cord, and in one of them fatty degeneration of certain muscle fibres. The most constant changes may be said to be increase of the connective tissue of the cord, thickening of the vessel walls, and pigmentation of the cells. Too much importance must not, however, be attached to these changes: firstly, because many cases have been examined with an absolutely negative result; and, secondly, because all the changes described have been found in the cords of old people who have not manifested any sign of paralysis agitans during life. Pigmentation of the cells is the most common change in old people, and the older the patient the more marked the pigment. Obliteration of the central canal of the spinal cord is a common feature in the cords of adults, and it is almost unnecessary to say that the same is true with regard to the thickening of the vessels. It must be admitted that so far as the morbid anatomy is concerned there is little to be said against the view held by some that paralysis agitans is merely premature senility of the nervous system. Pathology. — Certain clinical facts seem to point strongly to the cerebral origin of the disease. The hemiplegic character during the earlier stages is not infrequently a marked feature, and the disease may for a considerable period remain limited to one side ; and further, the progress of the disease tends to follow a course very suggestive of a cerebral origin. The character of the tremor is that associated with cerebral rather than with spinal disease, and the similarity of the tremor to that pro-