564 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM crawling in front of it does not cause the characteristic series of movements for its capture which are seen in a normal frog. Fig. 104.—^, Section of cerebral cortex in the pre-Eolandic lobe—a motor area ; on the left, under a low power to show the distribution of the cells; on the right, a few of the cells from each zone more highly magnified. (For description of zones, see text.) B, section through cerebral cortex in the region of the calcarine fissure (visual area), stained to show the arrangement of the fibres. (For descrip- tion of zones, see text.) (Campbell.) (2) In the pigeon (Fig. 105, B), removal of the cerebral hemispheres reduces the animal to the condition of a somnolent reflex machine. The bird sits on its perch, generally with its head turned back, as if sleep- ing. If a sudden noise is made, if light is flashed in its eye, or if it is touched, it flies off' its perch and lights somewhere else. Clapping the hands and letting peas fall on the floor both produce a start, but the bird makes no endeavour to secure the peas, as it would do in the normal state. (3) In the dog, by a succession of operations, Goltz removed the greater part of the cerebral cortex without causing paralysis of the muscles. The animal became dull and listless, and did not take food unless it was given to it. It showed no sign of recog- nising persons or other dogs, and did not respond in the usual way when petted or spoken to. But it snapped when pinched, shut its eyes and turned its head away from a bright light, and shook its ears at a loud sound. It did not sit still, but walked constantly to and fro when awake. It slept very heavily. In fact, all the responses of the animal might be classed as reflex responses to immediate excitation. (4) In monkeys, removal of the cerebral cortex leads to such loss of the so-called voluntary movements that all other symptoms are masked. After section through the crura cerebri, so as to remove the influence of the cerebrum, a condition of in- creased tonic contraction of the muscles occurs known as decerebration rigidity. This appears to be due to the un- controlled action of the kinesthetic and labyrinthine mechanisms acting through the cerebellum. It is often well seen in old cases of apoplexy where a haemorrhage has cut the fibres coming down from the cerebrum. By destroying the cerebrum, the animal is deprived of a most import- ant mechanism for the co-ordination of incoming impressions from the peri- pherally-placed receptors with the combinations of muscular movements by which appropriate reactions are brought about. With the cerebrum intact this co-ordination is far more complete. The reactions are, in part at least, determined by— (1) The previous training and edu- cation of the brain. For, just as in the spinal cord channels of action are formed, so in the cerebrum, if a given reaction once follows a given stimulus, it will tend to follow it again, (a) This training is in part hereditary. Each individual of a race is born with well-established lines of action in Fie. 105.—4, Pigeon with the cerebellum destroyed to show struggle to mani- tain the balance; B, pigeon with cerebrum removed to show balance maintained, but the animal reduced to a somnolent condition. the process of development, and throughout life these inherited channels play an important part in determining the results of stimulation.