425 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL sound in early stages of peritonitis, especially in the chronic forms. It is most important that the patient should always be examined per rectum or per vaginam to ascertain the condition of the pelvic organs. Clinical Varieties Peritonitis Fulminans, Ultra-acute Peritonitis. —All these cases are usually caused by the per- foration of some part of the alimentary canal in which no adhesions have formed from previous inflammation. The patient is suddenly seized with most acute pain, and within a few minutes is suffering from the most profound shock. As the bacterial invasion proceeds symptoms of septic poisoning rapidly develop, and the patient dies within twenty-four to forty-eight hours, without having rallied sufficiently for operative interference to be seriously entertained. There is a group of cases following operations upon the abdomen, now happily becoming less and less common, in which the patient never really recovers from the shock of the operation, but dies within twenty-four to forty-eight hours with a rather distended abdomen. At the post-mortem examination there is scarcely any evidence of inflammation of the peritoneum, certainly not enough to justify us in saying that the patient dies of peritonitis. Most surgeons consider that they are justified in looking upon this result as death from shock, and consider that the intestinal distension is due to some special reflex nervous mechanism. Some pathologists, on the other hand, have found the peritoneal cavity to be infected with micro-organisms, and they look upon these cases as instances of a very rapid invasion of the peritoneum by virulent bacteria, which grow so rapidly that inflammation has no time to develop. A definite series of accurate bacterio- logical investigations alone can settle this point. Latent or Masked Peritonitis.—The patient walks into the hospital and does not feel particularly ill; he usually states that his ill- ness commenced four or five days previously, but until that particular day he was not ill enough to seek advice. Within two or three days he suddenly becomes collapsed, and dies, with his peritoneal cavity full of pus. Owing to the absence of urgent symptoms the surgeon's help is often not summoned until the patient is too collapsed for operative interference to be anything more than a forlorn hope. Peritonitis of the New-horn Child. ■— These cases are due to one of two causes: (1) The septic infection of the umbilical cord, due prob- ably to faulty technique on the part of the accoucheur or midwife; (2) rupture of the dis- tended large intestine, which may be due to the pressure of parturition, but more likely to be the giving way of some small ulcer in the colon. Peritonitis caused by Cutaneous Erysipelas.— In rare instances erysipelas of the abdominal wall has been followed by fatal peritonitis. This is difficult to explain, because the lym- phatics of the abdominal wall do not communi- cate with those of the peritoneum. The symp- toms of the peritonitis are often masked, and not even suspected during life. Peritonitis in the Course of Acute Specific Fevers.—Peritonitis is most commonly met with in scarlet fever, as we might expect from the tendency of this disease to develop dangerous complications. In typhoid fever it may occur as the direct result of a perforating ulcer, or be due to a bacterial penetration of the wall of the alimentary canal without any physical breach of continuity. Peritonitis has also been met with in the course of measles, smallpox, and typhus fever. Rheumatic Peritonitis.—Although doubt has often been thrown upon the existence of this complication of rheumatic fever, it is definitely proved that acute inflammation of the perito- neum does sometimes occur as a complication of acute rheumatic fever. It usually terminates favourably after a few days, although fatal cases have been reported. Peritonitis in BrigMs Disease.—This is a rare complication. The mode of origin of the peritonitis in this disease, as in the case of acute rheumatic fever, is possibly as follows :—A purely chemical peritonitis is set up by toxins. After a time the wall of the intestine is sufliciently injured by this chemical peritonitis to allow the organisms contained in the intestinal contents to work their way through to the peritoneal cavity. Idiopathic or " Cryptogenetic " Peritonitis.— The more carefully cases are examined by improved modern methods the rarer does the diagnosis of idiopathic peritonitis become. At present there are two groups of cases of which the origin is absolutely obscure, and hence it is convenient to place them under this heading. In the one group the patients are children, chiefly girls, and in the other the victims are adults. In both these cases a chill is generally quoted as being the cause. The attacks of enteritis with diarrhoea so commonly met with in Europeans living in hot countries, especially in Egypt, seem to be due solely to some reflex vaso-motor disturbance from the sudden chilling of the body in an atmosphere nine times drier than the one they have been accustomed to. The cooling of the body by means of perspiration is therefore rapid, the atmosphere being very hygroscopic, so that a reflex effect is produced, causing a dilatation of the vessels of the splanch- nic area. If this condition is neglected it is easy to see how some inflamed area of the gut may prove a weak spot, and allow the germs to penetrate to the peritoneal cavity. Diagnosis.—Quite at the onset it may be very difficult indeed to diagnose the existence of peritonitis. Severe abdominal pain may be