NIGHT TERRORS 64 will be found that the bedroom is imperfectly ventilated, or that the patient suffers from digestive troubles, or has eaten an inappropriate meal on the evening of the attack. Although most common in childhood, the complaint is by no means limited to that age, and many adults know by experience the evil results of indiscre- tion in diet shortly before sleeping. Sleep is disturbed almost from the outset, and the attack is merely the culmination of a state of only partial rest disturbed by " bad dreams." As in night terrors, the patient usually awakes with a scream. He is found in a state of vague terror, and if he complain of definite objects, they had come upon him in his sleep, and are not visible to him at the present. Although perhaps greatly terrified, he is fully conscious of his surroundings and can be soothed into quietness, but it may be long before he is wooed to sleep, owing to his dread of something happening to him in that state. The objects of terror, if defined at all, are very commonly objects or persons that have frightened him in his waking moments. These objects may vary in each attack, and this may be the case when more than one attack occurs in a night. In the morning, if old enough, he has a very perfect recollection of the occurrences of the night before. Closely allied to night terrors is a rare com- plaint in which a child, apparently in the deepest sleep, suddenly sits up in bed and begins to talk. The words are generally coherent enough, and may be addressed to some one present, or even to a doll placed in its arms. Careful ob- servation, however, proves that the child is only partially, if at all, conscious of its surroundings. The stream of eloquence is generally rapid and incessant, and is only broken by the child abruptly returning into a deep sleep. In the morning the child has no recollection of the occurrences of the previous night. Allied also to night terroi-s, but perhaps more closely to epilepsy, is the condition known as " daymare," in which the patient, not necessarily a child, sees visions in the day-time when seemingly awake. For an interesting account of some cases of this last, reference may be made to a paper by D. G. F. Still. Diagnosis.—This mainly rests in distinguishing between attacks of night terrors and those of nightmare, the chief indications for this having been already given. In an able article on night terrors Dr. Leonard Guthrie takes exception to tiiese points of distinction, on the ground that they are too subtle for practical purposes. It may be claimed, however, that they are no more vague or indecisive than those used in deciding between such complaints as epilepsy and hysteria. It is not to be expected that all the points of distinction between the two complaints should be present in every case ; and even after the utmost care has been exercised, there still remain a minority of cases in which uncertainty must exist as to which class they should be placed in, that of night terrors or that of nightmare. Prognosis.—There is no element of danger in the attacks themselves. Their strong resem- blance, however, to some of the phases of epilepsy should engender caution in pronouncing as to the future of the subjects of night terrors. In rare instances the two complaints are associated in the same subject. More commonly there is an interval, of greater or less duration, between the supervention of the one complaint upon the other. But epilepsy is far from the only, and perhaps not even the most frequent, sequel of night terrors. Other nervous dis- orders, such as migraine, chorea, hysteria, asthma, somjiambulism, somniloquence, etc., play as important a part in this direction as epilepsy. Occasionally, too, night terrors is followed by some form of insanity. In fact, probably few of the subjects of night terrors pass through life without incurring some other form of nervous disturbance ; although, fortunately, the mani- festations of this last may be so slight or trivial as only to be revealed by the most careful and searching inquiry and examination. Having regard to this, night terrors, although of no great importance in themselves, should be re- garded as danger-signals, and as constituting a warning to the possible advent of other neuroses in the near or distant future. Treatment.—If the attacks be frequent, a dose of potassium bromide, suitable for the age, can be given shortly before bedtime. Except in the case of frequency, however, a course of bromide is certainly undesirable. Any con- ditions that experience may prove to act as exciting causes for the attacks should be studiously avoided. The only effective treat- ment is the endeavour to prevent, in the train- ing and education of the patient, any undue stress being thrown upon the nervous system. For this purpose a total avoidance of all ex- citement, and a careful watch over the effects of study, are all essential. Lapse of time by itself will generally bring about a cessation of the night attacks, and there is reasonable hope that proper care in the training of the child may prevent the onset of sequelae of any importance. Nigfrismus. See Melasma. Nikiforoff's Method.—A method of fixing blood films by immersing them in ether, in absolute alcohol, or in a mixture of equal parts of ether and alcohol, for from five to fifteen minutes. Nimbus. See Meteorology (Cloiids, Varieties). Ninth Nerve. See Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve; Phy.siology, Neuro-muscular Mechan- ism {Medulla Oblongata, Cranial Nerves).