PELVIS—HEMATOCELE AND HEMATOMA 392 by many authorities as a possible cause. Rup- ture of a varicose vein in the pampiniform plexus is described as originating a hsematoma by Bandl, Scanzoni, and others. Cullingworth describes a case where such a condition arose from rupture of a varicose vein inside the Fallopian tube. Dalbeau, Bernatz, and others hold that a hsemorrhagic type of pelvic peri- tonitis exists which is not a serious condition, as the bleeding is small in amount. Finally, some causes arise from morbid conditions of the blood, such as occur in purpura and following the exanthemata. Symptoms.—The symptoms of a non-encysted hjematocele are those of a ruptured extra-uterine gestation (see article " Ectopic Gestation "), and need no further notice here. Those of the en- cysted variety are to some extent the same, but less in severity—this, of course, being modified in accordance with the suddenness of onset and the amount of blood extravasated. In cases where the effusion is considerable the symptoms approximate to those of the non- encysted type, followed by signs and symptoms of localised peritonitis. On the other hand, when the symptoms develop gradually, and where the effusion is small in amount, serious difficulty exists in coming to a correct diagnosis as to the condition. Some time must elapse before the blood becomes so consolidated as to be defined ; further variations occur in firmness according to the duration of the tumour. Ex- amination per rectum and per vaginam should be made, as thus in the intra-peritoneal form the best idea as to the size, consistence, and relations of the tumour can be obtained. When the effusion has occurred into the pouch of Douglas the uterus is pushed upwards and for- wards, while the posterior wall of the vagina is moved downwards and in extreme cases may reach the vulva. In the extra-peritoneal form the tumour will be felt lateral in position and fixing the uterus, and if seen in the latter stages the diagnosis between this condition and pelvic cellulitis may be impossible. The history of onset is helpful sometimes. Diagnosis, whether intra- or extra-peritoneal, is determined by the phenomena of internal htemorrhage (see " Ectopic Gestation "). Rup- ture into the peritoneal cavity of a pyosalpinx or pelvic abscess may give rise to very similar symptoms, but in such cases the resulting peri- tonitis is very much more intense and the pain more intolerable. The difficulty of a differen- tial diagnosis between long-standing pelvic hfematocele and pelvic cellulitis and peritonitis has already been alluded to. Pelvic hsematocele is much rarer than pelvic cellulitis, and the latter is usually a consequence of parturition. The former tumour is soft at first, gradually becoming hard; the latter hard from its inception. Febrile symptoms follow the hsematocele, but pi-ecede the cellulitis. Tumours of the uterus and ovaries sometimes simulate haematoceles, but they are to be differentiated by the absence of urgent symp- toms at the onset, slow growth, better defini- tion, and generally by their mobility. Sudden haemorrhage into the cavity of a large ovarian cyst may produce symptoms very akin to those of a hfematocele, but in such a rare condition the existence of a tumour previous to the effusion could be ascertained. Extra-peritoneal haemorrhage is to be differen- tiated from intra-peritoneal haemorrhage by the fact that the former lies to the side of the uterus, the latter posterior to that organ. The former has its boundaries more sharply defined, and the uterus is pushed to the opposite side. Excluding rupture of an extra-uterine gestation, the determination of the cause of the haemor- rhage is often difficult. Prognosis.—When arising from rupture of an ectopic pregnancy the prognosis has already been considered (see article " Ectopic Gestation," vol. iii.). In cases arising from other causes prognosis on the whole is good, provided proper treatment has been adopted. Danger exists from the possibility of suppuration occurring in the blood cyst from chronic peritonitis, also from the extensive formation of adhesions, which in turn may act injuriously on the ovaries, tube, and bowels. Treatment. — Non - encysted extravasations when arising from rupture of an ectopic preg- nancy do not require consideration here. But as practically all intra-peritoneal effusions are at first non-encysted, the desirability of lapar- otomy must depend on a consideration of the condition of each individual case. Where operative procedures are not deemed necessary, the patient should be made to assume the recumbent posture. Pain and restlessness may be combated by full doses of morphia. The local application of an ice-bag over the hypo- gastrium is a valuable method of checking the haemorrhage. Internally lead acetate, ergot, suprarenal extract (5 grains of the medullary portion of the gland) may be administered. The patient should be kept for some time on a low diet; all hot drinks should be avoided. Frequent examinations of the patient are un- desirable, as in fact are all procedures which prevent the absolute repose demanded in the early non-operative treatment of pelvic hsema- tocele. When febrile and other symptoms point to suppuration, evacuation of the pus should be effected, and if possible per vaginam. Free drainage should be obtained, care, how- ever, being taken that existing adhesions are not broken down lest the peritoneal cavity becomes invaded. When the condition has become chronic the patient should avoid all severe strains or exertions lest the haemorrhage should return; complete rest should be insisted on during each menstruation. Attention to the