177 OPSONINS Opsonins.—Constituents of the blood serum which act upon bacteria and make them more susceptible to the destructive action of the phagocytic leucocytes; by comparing the number of bacteria ingested by the phagocytes in different conditions what is called the opsonic index is obtained. See Immunity, Recent Views {Phagocytosis). Optic.—Relating to vision, e.g. the optic nerve, the optic axis, optic atrophy, etc. See Amblyopia {Diagnosis, Hereditary Optic Atro- phy) ; Amblyopia {Pressure on Optic Nerve); Athetosis {Morbid Anatomy, Optic Thalamus); Brain, Physiology of {Optic Thalamus, Tract, Nerve, Chiasma); Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Thrombosis); Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms, Optic Neuritis); Brain, Inflamma- tions {Acute Encephalitis, Symptoms, Optic Neu- ritis) ; Brain, Surgery of {Symptoms, Optic Neuritis); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Tumour, Symptomatology, Optic Nerves); Chlo- rosis {Symptoms, Optic Neuritis); Lung, Tuber- culosis of {Comp)lications, Nervous); Malaria {Paralytic and Aphasic Form); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Symptoms); Mumps {Complica- tions, Optic Neuritis); Nephritis {Clinical Features); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflam- mation OF {Ocular Complications); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagmus, Damage to Optic Nerve); Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia, Infantile); Physiology, Neuromuscular Mech- anism (Vision, Anatomy of the Eye, Optic Axis, Optic Thalamus, Visual Centre, etc.); Retina AND Optic Nerve, Affections of {A-natomy, Inflammation, Tumours, Injuries, etc.); Stra- bismus {State of Eye); Sympathetic Ophthal- mitis ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Op)tic Neuritis); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Eye Symp- toms) ; Toxicology {Lead Poisoning, Eye Symp- toms); Typhoid Fever {Complications and SequelcE, Ocular); Vision, Field of {Optic Neuritis). OptiCO-Ciliary.—Relating to the optic and ciliary nerves, e.g. optico-ciliary neurectomy {see Sympathetic Ophthalmitis, Treatment). Optimum. — Literally, optimum means the best, and it has been defined specially as "that degree or amount of heat, light, food, moisture, etc. most favourable for growth, re- production, or other vital process"; in physio- logy, the smallest stimulus which causes the maximum muscular contraction is called the optimum stimulus. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Contraction). Optogram.—An image formed on the retina by light; it may be rendered permanent by chemical means immediately after death. Optometer.—An instrument for testing or measuring vision. vol. vii Oral.—Relating to the mouth (Lat. os, the mouth). See Mouth, Diseases of the. Orang'e. See Auranth Cortex ; Scurvy, Infantile {Treatment). Orang'eade. See Invalid-Feeding {Food in Pyrexial States). Orangre Flower Water. See Aura NTH Cortex. Orangre River Colony. See Thera- peutics, Health Resorts {South Africa). Orang'e Wine, ^fe Alcohol; Auranth Cortex. Ora Serrata. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Eye, Anatomy of; Retina). Orbicularis.—Circular; a name given to various circular muscles, such as the orbi- cularis oris and the orbicularis palpebrarum. See Eyelids, Affections of {Affections of Muscles, Spasm and Paralysis). Orbit, Diseases of the. Anatomy of the Orbit— Congenital and Acqidred Malfcn'ma- tions . . . . . .177 Inflammatory Affections of the Orbit— (1) Beginning in the Periosteum or Bony Walls . . . .179 2) Beginning in the Cellular Tissue . 180 Thrombosis of the Cavernous Sinus\ . 181 Injuries of the Orbit— (1) Injuries of the Soft Parts . .182 (2) Injuries of the Bony Walls. . 182 Tumours of the Orbit . . . .183 (1) Solid Gi'owths — Sarcoma, Car- cinoma, Osteoma, etc. . .185 (2) Cystic Growths — Congenital, Parasitic, etc. . . . .186 (3) Vascular Growths—Angioma . 187 Pulsating Exophthalmos . . .188 Intermittent Exophthalmos . . .189 See also Eye, Diseases of ; Aneurysm {Arterio- venous, Orbital Aneurysm, Pulsating Exoph- thalmos) ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflamma- tion OF {Eye Symptoms); Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Paralysis, Etiology, Lesions of 07-bit); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequela?, Ocular Complications). Congenital and Acquired Malformations of the Orbit.—The bony orbit is a pyramidal fossa, irregularly quadrilateral. The inside angles are rounded so that in section the shape is more conical than pyramidal. The base of the pyramid corresponding to the anterior aperture of the orbit is directed forwards and a little outwards. The apex is at the optic foramen in the sphenoid bone. The inner walls of the two orbits are approximately parallel, while the 12