260 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF are predisposing causes, but atheroma of arteries, gall-stones, and chronic rheumatism are fre- quently associated with calculi in the pancreas. Obstruction of the ducts by the pressure of a tumour may be an exciting cause. As stones in the pancreatic duct are usually associated with inflammation of the ducts or of the gland, it is highly probable that the true exciting cause is bacterial infection, as is now proved to be the chief cause of the formation of gall-stones. Pancreatic calculi are whitish, and composed almost exclusively of calcium carbonate and phosphates. They are spherical, ovoid, or cylindrical in shape, but may be irregular, granular on the surface and branching, taking the shape of the ducts, in which they may be found free, but in some cases they are fixed in the substance of the gland. They may be single or very numerous; as many as 300 have been found in one case. They vary in size from that of a millet-seed to that of a hazel-nut. There is a good example of multiple calculi in the pancreas in the Hunterian Museum, and in that specimen they are foimd in all parts of the gland; but the most common site is in the large duct, especially at the head of the gland. Symptoms and Signs.—Paroxysmal pains at the epigastrium resembling gall-stone attacks, but associated with tenderness over the gall- bladder, and generally unaccompanied by jaun- dice, are usually the first symptoms. When inflammation occurs the attacks may be asso- ciated with ague-like seizures resembling in- fective cholangitis. As the calculi pass they interfere with the flow of bile from the papilla, and jaundice may be expected to occur, further obscuring the diagnosis. The tenderness is in the middle line, and not just below the right costal margin, as in chole- lithiasis, and the reflected pain is midscapular, and not under the right scapula, as in gall- bladder pain. Glycosuria and fat in stools, rarely lipuria, may be present in advanced cases, but as these symptoms are dependent on pancreatic degenera- tion they are only found in advanced cases. Lancereaux found persistent diabetes in 12 out of his 40 collected cases. In one case recorded an epigastric tumour was felt; this was probably due to the formation of a cyst from obstruction of Wirsung's duct. Acute pancreatitis may result, with suppura- tion, htemorrhage, or even gangrene, but chronic interstitial pancreatitis followed by atrophy of the gland is more likely to follow. Diagnosis.—In my Hunterian Lectures on the pancreas at the R.C.S., I pointed out that by means of the Rontgen rays a diagnosis between gall-stones and pancreatic calculi can be effected, in that the latter are opaque to the X-rays while gall-stones do not obstruct their passage. As pancreatic calculi are always accompanied by chronic pancreatitis, the urine in such cases always responds to Cammidge's reaction. Prognosis.—Recovery after the passage of the concretion is possible, but when the calculi are multiple serious secondary changes in the pan- creas are usually present, and a chronic illness extending over months or years is probable, finally ending in diabetes. At any time acute pancreatitis may set in and produce a fatal termination. Treatment.—Relief of the pain by sedatives, regulation of the bowels by aperients, careful attention to diet and the treatment of symptoms as they arise, practically sum up all that can be done by medical treatment; but if the diagnosis of pancreatic calculus can be made, surgical treatment offers the best chance of cure or relief. A vertical incision through the right rectus enables the pancreas to be thoroughly explored; and if a stone be felt, it may be got at either by dividing the peritoneum, passing from the duodenum to the colon, and then directly cut down on, or by opening the duodenum and incising the papilla common both to the pan- creatic and common bile duct. If no calculus can be felt, but the paroxysmal character of the symptoms and swelling of the head of the pancreas lead to the suspicion of infection of the pancreatic ducts, a cholecys- totomy with long-continued drainage of the bile- ducts, or a cholecyst-enterostomy, may aftbrd relief also to the pancreas, as in the cases described under the head of Chronic Pancreatitis. In one case I operated on a patient, aged fifty- seven, and removed four pancreatic calculi—one from the duct of Santorini, two from Wirsung's duct through the duodenum, and one from the centre of the gland by direct incision; the patient was well four and a half years later. I can only find reports of four other operations for pancreatic calculi, of which two died. 6. Injury to the Pancreas.—Wounds of the pancreas generally entail speedy death, since from the deep situation of the organ such in- juries are usually complicated by serious damage to other organs as well as by profuse haemor- rhage from the pancreas itself. The pancreas may be contused or torn across, when if death does not rapidly occur as the result of the injury, the blood effused in the neighbourhood may tend to form a cyst, as in one case that I saw in which the lesser peritoneal cavity had become filled with sanguineous eff"usion. Lancereaux, in his work on the pancreas, described a case in which a bullet injured the pancreas, but here death appeared to be due to other injuries. In one case occurring at Guy's Hospital, the patient was struck by the shaft of a cart, which injured the great omentum and ruptured the head of the pancreas. The patient survived a week, and at the post-mortem examination there was found extensive fat necrosis.