486 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION movement, much varied in the special nerve signs occurring ; the action may be spontaneous, as in chorea, or easily excited, as in mental irritability. On the other hand, low types in development and defects of individual parts, accompanied by repetitive movements—frown- ing, grimaces, protrusion of the tongue, and repetition of the question asked—are frequently indicative of a brain slow in mental action and imperfect in all response. The clinical descrip- tion of nerve signs enables inferences to be made as to the neural processes occurring in the brain. Repetitive actions often characterise conditions of hysteria, and are seen in fixed abnormal habits, spasmodic torticollis, and athetosis; emotion, hysteria, chorea, epilepsy, are charac- terised by spreading brain action, hence im- provement residts from training and education adapted to bring the brain under control and guidance. In similar manner we may study the neural states corresponding to brain fatigue, sleep, mental confusion, forgetfulness. The ob- server who habitually compares the attitudes and movements seen in the two hands will soon be convinced that the early indications of inert- ness and fatigue are more commonly apparent in the left upper extremity, which is so often held at a lower level than the right, while this hand more commonly shows the expression of feebleness or nervousness. Observation of nerve signs thus shows the greater liability of the right cerebi'al hemisphere to weakness and early fatigue. Infants with scapho-cephalic heads and premature ossification of the fontanelles are typical of low development; these are more usually met with among males; they are very liable to be cut off by any pulmonary or gastro- intestinal disturbance, or by convulsions. Infant mortality is very heavy, especially among males ; the registrar-general has shown that the pro- portion of infant deaths registered under " De- velopmental diseases" has increased for many years. Among children at school age the report shows that "children with developmental de- fects" amounted to 13'4 per cent of the boys and 9-6 per cent of the girls, and that a large proportion of these showed subnormal nerve signs and mental dulness, while 16"2 per cent of the boys and 26*3 per cent of the girls were pale, thin, or delicate, the proportions being highest at seven years and under. Many infants of low development and with small heads die of marasmus, others with broncho-pneumonia and whooping-cough; these cases add greatly to infant mortality among males, while more girls survive. Among the developmental cases that grow up the males remain most numerous, hut the females suffer the most; the proportion of girls with ill-health and mental dulness increases with advancing years, and seems to lead to more permanent lowered capacity. To illustrate the usefulness of including de- scriptions of physiognomy and expression in the clinical record of a case, I conclude with the following example qiioted from my recent work, The Nervous System of the Child. A CHILD OF NERVOUS TYPE Age last birthday, 14 years. Name, Girl. A. Body : Development, Features, etc. Head.—Of good volume and well shaped; circumference 21'5 inches. Forehead broad and high. Face.—Features in good proportion. Eye- openings and mouth of sufficient size. Ears.—Well made in rim and pleat of the ear, alike on either side. Nose.—Normal; breathes with lips closed. Palate.—Sufficiently wide ; good teeth, not crowded. Growth. — Height 60'5 inches (average for age, 60'32 inches). The body well proportioned hands and feet rather small. B. Nerve Signs : Postures, Movements, Action General Balance of Body.—Does not stand straight or keep quite still. Shoulders not at same level; feet unequally planted. Expression.—Bright and changeful; a spread- ing smile often seen, and sometimes twitching of the mouth. OrbicMlaris oculi.—Want of good tone about the lower eyelids, but this disappears when interested and in smiling. Eye-Movements.—Can fix eyes well, but they often wander when not directed. Head Balance. — Head not bent down, but often falls a little to one side, or is turned about. Hands.—Held out promptly in response, the left a little lower than the right, while neither is on a level with the shoulder. Each balances in the "nervous posture," especially the left; this becomes more marked if the effort is main- tained ; there are some twitchings of the fingers. This action is accompanied by some bending of the lower part of the spine, while the shoulders are thrown back. Response is prompt; action is quick and well imitated from others, but is often accompanied by some extra-movements, besides those under control. Indications of Modes of Brain Action Spontaneity. — Fidgets while standing, feet shuffle, fingers twitch. The head is often turned about, the eyes wander, she smiles frequently, and is active in play. Impressionability.—Quick to receive all im- pressions ; looks at every one who speaks in the class ; is not always completely under control. Inhibition.—While prompt to stand when directed, there remains some fidgeting of the hands with the dress or hair; she is never quite still.