180 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE which there is little tendency to the formation of pus, great thickening of the periosteum may result, with the development of spicules and nodules of bone at the margins of the diseased area. The common causes of orbital periostitis are —injury, tubercle, and extension of disease from neighbouring sinuses and the nasal fosste. According to Panas the majority of cases of orbital osteo-periostitis are due to infection from the nasal fosste or the sinuses immediately adjoining the orbit. In traumatic cases the disease is nearly always at or close to the margin of the orbit. There is no doubt that in many, probably the large majority, of such instances the disease is induced by injury in consequence of an unsound constitutional condition. The syphilitic variety is almost confined to adults, and to those in the tertiary stage of acquired syphilis. Cases are, however, occasion- ally met with in children, the subjects of in- herited syphilis. This form is generally chronic. The tubercular variety is essentially a disease of childhood. Treatment.—The general treatment of orbital periostitis will necessarily depend on the nature of the case. In severe instances in which the patient is acutely ill, treatment must be largely symptomatic. Opiates for the relief of pain, ^ and quinine, and other antipyretic drugs should ' be employed, and the diet must be suitable for a patient in a febrile state. In the more chronic cases, especially those in tubercular children, dietetic and hygienic treatment is of great importance; the most useful drugs are such as cod-liver oil, maltine, and the phos- phates of iron and calcium. In syphilitic cases, iodide of potassium or sodium in increasing doses should be administered. In feeble and badly-nourished patients, iron or cod-liver oil should be given in addition, while the diet should be nutritious and easily assimilable. Local Treatment.—In acute cases, local de- pletion, by means of leeches applied to the temporal and malar regions, and the constant application of hot dressings, relieve the pain and tension of the tissues. As soon as suppura- tion occurs, an incision should be made, and the pus evacuated. In cases of deeply-seated disease it is not advisable to wait for the abscess to show itself at the surface. An incision should be made through the upper or lower eyelid at the site of greatest prominence, and an attempt made to reach the abscess cavity, observing great care to avoid the eyeball and its muscles, and the levator palpebrse supei'ioris. The abscess, being opened, should be carefully washed out with a gentle stream of sterilised water or other aseptic solution (such as weak perchloride of mercury), and carefully examined for necrosed bone. The removal of carious bone from the orbital walls, except at the margins, is always a difficult matter, and, owing to the thinness of the bones, is often attended by considerable risk of injury to neighbouring important structures. In cases of orbital abscess, from whatever cause, it is important to make an external incision large enough to admit of the free escape of pus. Draining the orbit is always difficult, for with the patient in a recumbent position the path for the escape of pus is uphill, and hence the abscess cavity should be washed out more frequently than is necessary in some other situations. Permanent displacement, usually eversion, of one or other eyelid is a not infrequent result of osteo-periostitis in cases in which the disease has attacked the orbital margin. This cicatri- cial ectropion is often seen in the tubercular form of bone disease in children. Deeply-seated periostitis may be followed by limitation of the ocular movements from ad- hesions between muscles and neighbouring- structures, and occasionally by post - neuritic atrophy of the optic nerve. 2. Orbital cellulitis or orbital phlegmon is an inflammation of the cellular tissue of the orbit, which usually terminates in suppuration and orbital abscess. Exceptionally the inflammation may subside without the formation of pus. There is also a rare variety known as plastic cellulitis, in which the inflammatory exudation is of a fibrinous character, and there is very little tendency to the formation of pus. Orbital cellulitis is generally one-sided, but occasionally both orbits are involved simulta- neously. Extension or transference of inflamma- tion from one orbit to another is sometimes seen. The affection is generally acute, but subacute and chronic forms are met with. In the acute form the chief local signs are rapidly increasing swelling and redness of the eyelids; great injection and chemosis of the conjunctiva, which often overlaps the corneal margins; protrusion of the eyeball and early impairment of its move- ments, which later may be entirely in abeyance. In severe cases the eyeball may be excessively proptosed, the conjunctiva very oedematous, and rapidly-destructive ulceration of the cornea may ensue. The displacement of the globe may be lateral or vertical as well as forwards. Palpa- tion seldom reveals local disease, but all the tissues are tense and resistant, and examination is difficult. The pain is severe, and fever and other evidences of constitutional disturbance are often very marked. Sight may or may not be defective; this depends upon involvement or escape of the optic nerve. In some instances when the disease has lasted for a few days, neuro-retinitis may be discovered on ophthalmo- scopic examination; frequently, however, it is impossible to obtain a view of the fundus oculi. After a varying period, seldom less than three