PHARMACOLOGY 447 complete, but there is no corresponding increase in relaxation, as in the case of digitalis. Death is preceded by violent tonic and clonic convulsions. (10) Oxygen and Oxidising Agents.—Normally the corpuscles carry to the tissues more oxygen than is actually required, and as the respiration of air containing an excess of oxygen only leads to a slight increase in that transported by the blood, the inhalation of the gas at normal pressure has no effect on the healthy animal. That it is beneficial in the cyanosis of heart and lung disease is clinically certain ; the good effect is probably due to the increased amount dissolved in the plasma, and to the more rapid diffusion of pure oxygen through the lungs compensating to some extent for inadequate respiratory movements. Peroxide of hydrogen, generally employed in watery solution, is rapidly reduced by cata- lase, an enzyme universally present in living tissues, nascent oxygen being evolved. It is a powerful antiseptic, and in strong solution an escharotic. When a large cavity, such as the pleura, is irrigated with it the oxygen set free may cause fatal embolus. Permanganate of potassium is reduced by organic matter, the oxygen combining with albumin. It is thus a protoplasmic poison, and in consequence is antiseptic. Charcoal accumu- lates quantities of oxygen in its pores, and oxidises and deodorises decomposing animal matter with which it is brought in contact. (11) Sulphur is a very inert substance, and when swallowed is largely excreted unaltered by the bowel. Part, however, is converted into sulphides, to which any pharmacological action is due. In man, sulphides act as mild cathartics; in animals they produce nervous symptoms when introduced intravenously. They reduce oxy-haemoglobin, producing sulpho-methsemo- globin, are oxidised in the tissues, and are ex- creted in the urine as sulphates, etc. When dilute sulphuretted hydrogen is inhaled it produces irritation of the eyes, mouth, and respiratory passages; in concentration it causes imconsciousness and death, sometimes with con- vulsions. The sulphides of lime and barium have the property of removing hairs and the superficial layers of the skin, and hence are employed as depilatories. (12) Arsenic and Phosphorus.—For the main actions of these bodies, as comprehended under the symptoms of acute and chronic poisoning, see " Toxicology." The toxicity of arsenic is typically shown by the negative ion (AsO,) of arsenious acid, the metal being itself inactive. Preparations of arsenic which are not dissociable are relatively inert; the best example of this is the cacodyl group, by which large quantities of arsenic can be introduced into the body without producing toxic effects. According to Fraser, these drugs are inert. Apart from the symptoms of poisoning {q.v.), arsenic influences nutrition and blood formation. Action on Metabolism..—The growth of young animals is stimulated, and their nutrition im- proved, by small doses of arsenic. In larger doses there is increased breakdown of proteids, with equivalent urinary excretion of nitrogen, sulphates, and phosphates. The glycogen of the tissues is diminished, and fatty changes occur throughout the body. In health, arsenic does not increase the number of red corpuscles; but in young animals the hjemopoietic function is stimulated. After prolonged administration the bones become denser than normal. Phosphorus.—-Yellow phosphorus, owing to its greater solubility, is much more poisonous than the red allotropic form, which is scarcely absorbed from the alimentary canal. If injected subcutaneously, however, the two are equally toxic. The action on metabolism is not unlike that of arsenic, and consists in deficient oxida- tion, cloudy swelling and fatty degeneration of cells, increased proteid breakdown, and increased metabolism of carbohydrate with diminution of glycogen in the tissues. The metabolism of fat is diminished ; the alkalinity of the blood falls. The explanation of the fatty changes in the viscera resulting from phosphorus poisoning is not clear; the latest researches, however, point strongly to its being due to a transference of fat from one part of the body to another, than to its being caused by cellular degeneration. The chief arguments for this view are (a) that fatty liver does not occur in starved animals, or in very lean subjects poisoned with phosphorus; {b) that the blood contains excess of fat; (c) that if an animal poisoned with phosphorus be fed on a foreign fat, the same fat is deposited in the liver. In small repeated doses phos- phorus stimulates connective tissue to proliferate, and growing bones to become denser. That the latter is a specific action is probable from the occurrence of phosphorus necrosis in chronic poisoning. In animals, the substance has a directly depressant action on the heart; this is not seen in man. In small doses the red cells are increased. Neither bacteria, yeast, nor unorganised ferments are influenced by the presence of phosphorus. (13) Heavy Metals. — The pharmacological actions, general and local, of the heavy metals may conveniently be discussed as a whole. Local Action. -— Salts of heavy metals are astringent and corrosive, but one or other effect comes into prominence according to circum- stances. The astringent action depends on the precipitation of proteids with the formation of metallic albuminates, which are insoluble in water but soluble in saline solutions or excess of proteid. With the formation of the albuminate the original acid of the salt is liberated, and it too acts locally. When a salt is applied to the tissues the intensity of the local reaction depends