146 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 1. Abnormal Position or Development of ONE or more of the Exterior Ocular Muscles It is a state of matters not so very infrequent that the two eyes, apart from the condition properly termed squint, are not precisely directed when completely at rest to the same point in space : that the two visual axes are not parallel, but are falsely directed in reference to one another. This condition to which we refer at present differs from true squint in the first instance in two important particulars, viz., that it is congenital, and that it has no relation to the refractive condition of the eyes. There are three possibilities: that one eye may look higher than the other, a condition expressed by the term right or left hyperphoria; that one eye may tend to deviate inwards or outwards from its neighbour, called esophoria and exo- phoria respectively (right or left); and that whether alone or in conjunction with one of the other conditions, the vertical axis of one cornea may be rotated towards the other either above or below. It must be manifest that, given fairly equal vision in the two eyes, and the desire for binocular vision, it is quite possible that the constant effort required to neutralise the incon- veniences of the faulty position may give rise to grave discomfort. Thus, if when the eyes are quite at rest their visual axes tend to cross, the patient, unless he incessantly keeps one or both of his external recti actively innervated, will be apt to have double vision. This con- stant struggle will be bad enough in the case of the external or internal recti, but these are comparatively powerful muscles; it is when height differences are present that the chief trouble exists. If in order to keep the images of one object upon the two macute at once the patient requires constantly to pull down one cornea, he will very soon experience much fatigue. This is easily proved by experiment, for while one can read for some time without much inconvenience from wearing a 3° prism with its apex either in or outwards, he cannot endure for any length of time a prism even of 2° apex upwards. Such faults of position as we are now speaking of arise from congenital imper- fection or malposition of certain of the muscles. One may readily suppose that if the superior rectus muscle of the right eye is inserted a little too far forwards or too nearly above the vertical meridian of the cornea, or if one of the "upward movers " of the left eye be imperfectly developed, a condition of right hyperphoria must exist; and here one must point out an error into which it is easy enough to fall. It is not to be sup- posed that because on inspection a patient's right eye stands at a manifestly higher or lower level than his left he therefore has hyperphoria. That is incorrect reasoning ; for if his visual axes be but parallel, he might have his two eyes one above the other instead of side by side without having hyperphoria. We must not judge by the mere position of the cornea, but by the direction of the line of vision, a totally different thing. For the discovery of those forms of mal- position of the eyes one requires certain tests, which are more refined than those which are sufficient for the display of diplopia produced by actual paralysis of a muscle. To describe even a proportion of the instruments devised for this purpose, the majority of which are em- ployed by no one save the inventor, would occupy many pages; but, fortunately, it is not necessary to do so, for the very simple test devised by Maddox is more reliable than any of the more complicated apparatus. The point is this, that the desire for fusion, for binocular vision, tends to mask and to prevent the double vision which is constantly threatening, and, as one might say, attempting to occur. If it were not so the patient would suffer no incon- venience; it is just this effort to fuse against difficulties which causes all the trouble. Dr. Maddox's plan is to render the image which falls upon one eye so unlike that which falls upon the other that the patient will not realise that they are the two images of one object, and so will not attempt to fuse them ; we shall thus find out, by their relation to one another, what is the position of the two eyes relatively to one another. He accomplishes this by the simple expedient of causing the patient to look at a spot of light (a gas jet turned low will do nicely), while before one eye is held a glass rod or bundle of rods. The eye before which the rod is held sees the light in the form of a streak running perpendicularly to the axis of the glass rod, and according as we hold the rod the patient can readily tell whether the line of light is to right or to left, above or below the gas jet, through which of course it oiight to pass. The degree of error is easily read off on a scale on the wall, in the centre of which the gas or candle is burning. Another simple and useful plan of discovering latent convergence or divergence is to cause the patient to look steadily at a dot, through which passes a fine line drawn vertically on a sheet of paper. The two images are separated by placing before one eye a prism with its apex upwards or downwards, when, should no diver- gence or abnormal convergence be present, the line will be merely lengthened, and show two dots, but if either of these conditions exist the two images will be laterally as well as vertically separated. As regards the actual harm done by such minute abnormalities and their frequency there are great differences of opinion : many surgeons, especially in America, holding that they are (juite a frequent cause of the most widespread and varying bodily symptoms, such as epilepsy.