60 NEW-BORN INFANT tubules; in the latter there is a blackish mass made up of degenerated blood corpuscles, some unaltered red cells, and granular material. Microbes have also been described in the tubules. The pathogenesis of the disorder is not understood; it is probably an infection of the blood or of the kidney. No treatment has yet had any success. Of Winckel's 23 cases only 4 recovered. Dermatitis exfoliativa neonatoru7n, or Ritter's disease, or keratolysis neonatorum, is a morbid condition, in which the most evident clinical feature is excessive and general desquamation of the cuticle. It is rarely met with before the end of the first week of life, and is common in the second week. It begins suddenly, and four stages have been enumerated, viz. : (1) A stage of erythema and exudation; (2) a stage of exfoliation and drying; (3) one of reintegration of the epidermis; and (4) one of sequelae, e.g. boils. Often the whole process is completed without any severe constitutional symptoms; in other instances, however, there may be diarrhoea and pneumonia, and the disease may be followed by a marasmic condition. It was regarded by Ritter as a pyagmic manifestation; other observers have looked upon it as at least pemphigoid, if not an actual form of pemphigus ; and yet others have considered it to be a der- matitis due to some external influence. It is probably related in some way to the physio- logical desquamation of the cuticle of the new- born, of which it appears to be an exaggeration. A fungus with long and thin mycelia has been found in some instances. It has about a 50 per cent mortality ; and the treatment so far has been entirely symptomatic, consisting in the protection of the desquamating surfaces, the administration of tonics, and the observance of good hygiene. Melwna neonatorum is rather a symptom of several diseases than a separate morbid entity. Gastro-intestinal hgemorrhage in the new-born, whatever may be its cause, usually shows itself in the discharge of blood from the bowel, more rarely in the form of htematemesis. It may occur either in the first three or four days of life, or in the beginning or middle of the second week. It is soon accompanied by the signs of marked anjemia, and icterus is a frequent symptom. A Hpurioas form is due to the swallowing of blood which has come from the mother's nipple in lactation. The true form has a mortality of from 35 to 60 per cent, and before death there is great coldness of the body, and convulsions often supervene. Its duration is from one to five days. It is due generally to ulceration in the mucous membrane of the duodenum or stomach, or to congestion of these parts without ulceration. Many theories have been advanced to explain the pathogenesis of gastro-intestinal hemorrhages, according to some of which they are produced by pressure on the body of the foetus during labour ; it has recently been suggested that they are due to lesions of the central nervous system. A streptococcic origin has also been ascribed. The treatment consists in the maintenance of the body-heat, and in the administration of two or three minims of liquor ferri perchloridi every two hours. There can be no doubt that in some cases melsena neonatorum, like omphalor- rhagia, is simply a symptom of haemophilia, or of infantile syphilis ; the treatment appropriate to these conditions will then be indicated. Icterus 7ieonatorum, or jaundice of the new- born, may be divided into physiological or idiopathic icterus and symptomatic icterus. To these may be added the jaundice of Winckel's disease, which has already been described, and need not be again referred to. Idiopathic jaundice is characterised by the yellowish coloration of the skin which appears a few days after birth, persists for a few days, does not commonly spread to the sclerotic, and dis- appears without causing much, if any, systemic disturbance. It is comparatively common, hence the name physiological sometimes given to it. With regard to its etiology and patho- genesis the most diverse views have been ad- vanced ; it has been ascribed to retention of the meconium, to late ligature of the cord, to chloroform administered to the mother in labour, to congenital debility and prematurity; it has been looked upon as due to changes in the blood, such as the destruction of red corpuscles (hajmatogenous theory), or to alterations in the liver, such as epithelial blocking of the bile- ducts, and persistence of the ductus venosus (hepatogenous theory). Manifestly thei'e is room for many further observations on this subject, but probably it will be found to be associated with the readjustment changes in the structure of tlie blood, and in the action of the liver, which occur in neonatal life. Fortu- nately the jaundice rarely causes anxiety, and usually yields to a dose of castor oil. Symp- tomatic icterus, as the name indicates, is the manifestation of several pathological conditions, which may affect the new-born; but in them all there is an obstacle to the passage of bile from the liver. The most serious cases are those in which there is a congenital obliteration of the bile-ducts due to malformation or to foetal peritonitis; in them the jaundice is soon very intense, the stools are colourless, the abdomen distended, and vomiting frequent. In other cases the jaundice is the result of septic infection of the umbilicus which leads to peri- lobular cirrhosis of the liver (possibly Buhl's disease may be of this nature) ; in other in- stances the hepatic lesion is caused by syphilis of the new-born and tlien mercurial treatment may be successful in cui'ing the icteric state. In some very rare observations jaundice of the new-born has been found to have been caused