PARAFFIN 264 yellow semi-solid substance which has no un- pleasant odour and does not become rancid. Preparation—Unguentum Paraffini, containing three parts of hard and seven of soft paraffin. Soft paraffin is hardly absorbed at all by the skin, and it is therefore not suitable as a vehicle for the administration of drugs by inunction. It is emollient and protective, and is a useful ointment basis for the surface application of the compounds of lead, mercury, zinc, etc. Vaseline Oil (Liquid Vaseline) is a semi-liquid mixture of paraffins used for the hypodermic injection of insoluble mercurials. Paraffi,nmn Liquidum is obtained from petroleum by distilling off the more volatile portions. It is used as a basis for the solution of menthol, cocaine, or other substances for laryngeal or nasal sprays. It is also known as paroleine. Petroleum Spirit is used for heating cauteries. The emulsion of petroleum with hypophosphites, employed in the treatment of phthisis, bronchitis, colitis, etc., is made from liquid paraffin and sodium and calcium hypophosphites, emulsified with gum acacia, tragacanth, and cinnamon oil. It is given in doses of 1-4 5. Pa.ra,flOCCUlUS.—The smaller and pos- terior part of the flocculus of the cerebellum. Pa.ra.fbrm.—Triformol, a polymer of formaldehyde, used as a disinfectant; it is a white substance which, when heated, is converted into formaldehyde vapour. Paragangline. — A proprietary pre- paration of the adrenal gland of the ox. Parag'eusia or Parag^eusis. — Perversion of the sense of taste. See Fifth Nerve, Affections of (Affections of Taste). Parag^lobulin. — A globulin found in certain fluids of the body, e.g. in blood serum ; fibrinoplastin or serum-globulin. See Larda- ceous Degeneration (Clinical Characters, Urine). Paraglobulinuria.—The presence of paraglobulin in the urine {vide s^tpra). ParagOmphOSiS. — Impaction of the foetal head in the maternal pelvis. Paragraphia.—An anomaly in the act of writing by which words are wrongly written, are transposed, or are replaced by meaningless associations of letters; a form of aphasia. Paraguay Tea.—Mate, prepared from the leaves of ilex /laraguayeyisis; it contains 0'5 per cent of caffeine. See Caffeina. Parahypnosis.—Abnormal sleep, such as is induced by hypnotism {q.v.) or is present in somnambulism. Parakeratosis.—A skin disease char- acterised by irregular development of the stratum corneum of the epidermis, e.g. para- keratosis variegata. See Lichen (Varieties). Parakinesis or Paracinesis.— Disordered motor function, due to disease of the motor centres or nerves. Paralalia. — Disturbance of the faculty of speech, temporary or permanent; the patient has the power of thought and of combining and forming ideas, but he cannot find the right words to express them or co-ordinate them when found. ParalampsiS.—An opacity of the cornea having a pearly lustre (Gr. Aa/ti/^cris, shining). Paraldehyde. See also Alcoholism (Sleeplessness, Treatment); Hypnotics ; MoR- phinomania and Allied Drug Habits (Paral- dehyde); Pharmacology (Hypnotics).—Obtained from aldehyde by the action of acids. It is a colourless liquid with an ethereal odour and a burning, followed by a cool, taste. It is soluble 1 in 10 of cold water, and freely in alcohol. It should be stored in the dark in a glass-stoppered bottle. It is a powerful hypnotic and nervous sedative, given in doses of |-2 3. It does not depress the heart, and has been recommended in insomnia in patients sufl'ering from cardiac disease, and in mania and melancholia. It has an abominable taste and odour, and should either be given in capsule or in solution with syrup and tincture of orange to cover the taste. It is very apt to disorder the stomach, and may produce an erythematous rash. It is not now employed so widely as it was a few years ago, but it is still selected by some physicians on account of its unpleasantness for patients who demand a sleeping draught although not really requiring one. ParaleprOSy.—An anomalous or modi- fied form of leprosy. Paralerema or Paraleresis.— Slight delirium, e.g. such as is met with in fever. Paralexia. — Inability to read correctly —words and syllables are transposed or substi- tuted ; a form of sensory aphasia. Paralgesia.—Disordered sense of pain, or (sometimes) diminished sensibility to pain. Paralgia.—A sensation akin to pain. Parallax.—Apparent displacement of an object looked at, due to change in the position of the observer or to his using first one and then the other eye; it is used in testing for opacities in the cornea, in the lens, or in the vitreous humour. Paralogia.—A difficulty in carrying on a train of consecutive or logical thinking.