152 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF the muscles in health; it is certainly infinitely better than any mnemonics, which are apt to fail precisely when they are required. It may, perhaps, be useful to give an illustration of the application of these rules :—A man complains of diplopia, which, excluding monocular diplopia, may be due to paralysis of any one of twelve muscles, six in each eye. Employing the first rule, we ascertain that it is in looking down- wards that double vision is most manifest; this narrows down the possibilities to the four depressors of the two eyes (superior oblique and inferior rectus). By using a red glass or other method we discover that the lower (false) image belongs to the left eye; the second rule has thus limited the possibilities to the two muscles of the left eye. On further investigation we find that the height-difference increases to the patient's right, which makes it clear that the defaulting muscle must be the left superior oblique. Other confirmatory tests may be added, when it will probably be discovered that the upper end of the false image is twisted to the right, and that the lateral separation is homony- mous, in accordance with the physiological action of the superior oblique as explained above. In regard to these confirmatory tests it should be stated that they are apt to fail, and should not be too much relied upon. If there happens, in such a case as is suggested above, to have been in health a tendency to (latent) divergence of the optic axes, as is not infrequently the case, then, when there is no possibility of combining the two images on account of the vertical diplopia, the latent divergence is apt to assert itself, with the result that in place of homony- mous, we may have crossed diplopia. One is sometimes put about, too, by the patient mis- taking the vertical for the inclined image, and vice versa; the effect of this will be, that in place of saying that the lower image inclines to the right, he may state that the upper inclines to the left. Nor is it a wise plan to speak of the two images inclining to or from one another, but rather to right and to left, since in the event of the separation being crossed when it "ought" to be homonymous, one is apt to be led into error. There are numberless minor points in regard to diplopia and the paralysis of the individual muscles, some of great interest and considerable importance, but for the dis- cussion of which the reader must be referred to a good text-book. The precise characters of the diplopia produced by paralysis of each of the muscles severally can be readily deduced from a knowledge of the physiological action, as indicated above. Two or more of the muscles may be paralysed at the same time, a condition which is most apt to be observed when either the trunk of the third nerve is affected, or when all the muscles attached to the eye are paralysed together, a condition known as ophthalmoplegia. When the whole third nerve is paralysed. there is present, of course, inability to employ any of the external ocular muscles with the exception of the external rectus (sixth nerve) and the superior oblique (fourth nerve). There is, therefore, total inability to move the eye either upwards or inwards, and the power to move downwards is extremely limited, since the superior oblique has but little action as a depressor except when the cornea is turned inwards, a position which it is impossible for the eye to assume from the paralysis of all the inward-movers. The eye, therefore, stands almost stationary in a position of divergence, is incapable of upward movement, and on an attempt to look down does little but rotate slightly about its sagittal axis as the superior oblique turns the upper part of the cornea inwards. The paralysis of the levator palpebrfe superioris prevents the patient from being much annoyed by diplopia, but if the lid be raised by the hand, it will be found that there is double vision over the whole field of fixation, save, perhaps, at the extreme outer part. The dip- lopia is crossed, the separation of the images becoming enormous as the test object passes over to the healthy side; in the upper part of the field the false image is above the true, in the lower half it is below the true. In such a case the pupil and ciliary muscle are also paralysed, the effects of which are discussed elsewhere. In certain cases the levator is less seriously affected than the muscles of the globe, and it and the anterior muscles seem to have a tendency to recover more quickly than the others. When ophthalmoplegia occurs all the exterior muscles of the eye are paralysed, with or without affection of the interior. The etio- logical significance of combinations of the various mviscles in their paralysis will be discussed later. In connection with the subject of diplopia one must draw attention to two points of interest, namely, the relative inconvenience to which the patient is subjected by paralysis of the various muscles, and the untaught, one might almost say reflex, means which he adopts to get rid of the annoyance. Since we have less to do with objects above us than with those on or below the level of the eyes, paralysis of any of the upward-movers causes much less annoyance than in the case of the other muscles; paralysis of a pure lateral-mover is, unless very severe in degree, easily combated by alteration of the position of the head, whereas in walking, and still more in descending a staircase, paralysis of one of the downward-movers causes great incon- venience. The means adopted by the patient consist in so placing the head and eyes that the offending muscle is in its position of greatest inutility, and the bad gearing produced by its inaction is therefore at its minimum. Thus when there is double vision to the left the patient turns his head to the left, and at the same time turns both eyes to the right; the