PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 497 the material to be excreted either in its fully elaborated condition, or in process of prepara- tion, may frequently be demonstrated—e.g. fat globules, iron-containing particles. These cells do not merely take up material from the blood and pass it out, but they may profoundly alter it before getting rid of it. 4. Ciliated Epithelium (Fig. 5).—The cells are usually more or less columnar, and the free border is provided with a series of hair-like processes, the cilia, which vary in size in different situations. In the living state the cilia are in constant rhythmic motion, each cilium being suddenly whipped or bent down in one direction, and then again assuming the erect position. All the cilia on a surface work harmoniously in the same direction, and the movement passes from the cilia of one cell to those of the next in regular order, beginning at one end of the surface and passing to the other. As a result of this constant harmonious rhythmic movement, any matter lying upon the surface is steadily whipped along it; and since the cilia usually work from the inner parts of the body to the outside, this matter is finally expelled from the body. The movements of the cilia are dependent on the changes in the protoplasm, and everything which influences the rate of chemical change modifies the rate of ciliary movement, which may thus be taken as an index of the proto- plasmic activity. II. Connective Tissues 1. Mucoid Tissue.—The cells of the meso- blast of the embryo, which at first lie in close apposition with one another, become separated, remaining attached by elongated processes. Between the cells, a clear, transparent substance makes its appearance, forming a soft jelly-like tissue. This tissue is widely distributed in the embryo as a precursor of the connective tissues. 2. Fibrous Tissue. — As development ad- vances, the cells of mucoid tissue elongate and become spindle-shaped, and are continued at their ends into fibres (Fig. 8). These cells are often called fibroblasts. Fig. 8.—Fibroblasts from young fibrous tissue. The connective tissues are thus clearly dis- tinguished from the epithelia by having the formed material between and not in the cells. They are composed of the following parts :— I. Formed material. {a) Fibres. (5) Matrix. II. Spaces (Connective Tissue Spaces). III. Cells. I. Formed Material.—(A) Fibres (Fig. 9)— Fl8. 7.—Mucoid tissue from an embryo rabbit. and after birth it is still to be seen in the pulp of a developing tooth and in the vitreous humour of the eye (Fig. 7). VOL. Vll FIG. 9.—Bundles of white fibres, with fibroblasts (a) and elastic fibres anastomosing with one another (6). \st. Non-elastic (White Fibres). These are delicate, transparent fibrils arranged in bundles, which do not branch, and which have a mucin-like matrix between them. They are composed of a non-elastic substance, collagen. This is closely allied to the pro- teins, and gives the protein re- actions faintly, but it does not yield tyrosin when decomposed, while it does yield amino-acetic acid. It is insoluble in cold water, but swells up and becomes transparent in acetic acid. It has a great affinity for carmine, and stains a pink colour with it. When boiled, it takes up water to form a hydrate. Gelatin, a sub- stance soluble in hot water, and forming a jelly on cooling. 2nd. Elastic Fibres. These are highly re- fractile elastic fibres, which branch and anasto- 32