103 NOSE-INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES tuberculosis, found sinus disease in 19 in- stances, but no facts are furnished indicating that the latter condition was tuberculous. The relation of ozsena to accessory cavity suppuration is still a vexed question; in a certain number of cases the two conditions are associated, but the relation of cause and effect is still debated. Suppuration has been ascribed to nasal polypi, but in the majority of cases in which these conditions co-exist, the latter are of secondary origin, and result from the constant irritation to which the mucous membrane is subjected from the flow of pus over it. In the case of the antrum dental caries is an important etiological factor, though even on this point all are not agreed as to the relative frequency of a dental or nasal origin in antral suppuration. Inflammation may be due to trauma conse- quent upon fractures of the sinus walls. It may also follow such operations upon the nasal chambers as the removal of polypi, and the injudicious and prolonged insertion into the nose of cotton-wool or gauze plugs, e.g. in controlling epistaxis. Furthei', the extraction of teeth and the resection of the superior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve, as reported by Langenbeck, have set up inflam- matory mischief in the antrum. It is very important to remember, too, that the pus from one sinus may infect another. The intimate anatomical relations between the various ostia sufiiciently indicate how this may arise, while the non-recognition of this fact may lead to failure in treatment. The possibility of infect- ing the anterior ethmoidal cells or frontal sinus from too forcible syringing of the antral cavity must also be borne in mind. 3. The BACTERIOLOGY of acccssory sinus inflammation has been studied both in the living subject aud upon the cadaver, and a number of organisms have been described in connection with it. We are mainly indebted to the work of Weichselbaum and E. Frankel for our knowledge of this subject, although a number of workers have recently turned their attention to the same field. Amongst the various organisms may be mentioned the diplococcus pneumonioe (Frankel's pneumococcus), the pneumo-bacillus of Friedlander, the bacterium coli, and a number of pyogenic organisms, varieties of streptococci and staphylococci. The influenza bacillus has been demonstrated by Lindenthal, Howard and Ingersoll, and Mos- kowsky. An interesting case has recently been recorded by Luc, in which the pneumococcus alone was found in acute inflammation of the frontal and maxillary sinuses. The patient was infected while conducting a post-mortem examination upon a case of cerebro-spinal meningitis, from which the pneumococcus was cultivated. Howard and Ingersoll failed to find the tubercle bacillus in a number of cases of chronic suppuration examined with that object in view. True diphtheritic membrane has been found in the antrum by Weichselbaum, E. Frankel, Dmochowsky, and Pearce. The last-named investigator has made some very interesting post-mortem observations upon a nvmiber of cases of uncomplicated diphtheria, and of diphtheria associated with measles or with scarlet fever. In considerably more than half of the unmixed cases of diphtheria inflam- matory changes were found in the antra, and the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus was present in all but three. In three of the four cases complicated with scarlet fever the antra contained pus in which streptococci and staphylococci were found. These observations, however, refer only to fatal cases. Some interesting points worthy of more extended research have lately been published by Stanculeanu and Baup. These observers have divided sinus suppurations into two groups: those primarily due to dental caries in which the organisms found were mainly anaerobic, e.g. bacillus ramosus, perfringens, serpens, etc.; and those of nasal origin, in which the organisms were chiefly aerobic, e.g. pneumococci, streptococci, staphylococci. In the former the pus was foetid, in the latter non-ffetid. 4. Pathology.— Inflammation of the acces- sory nasal sinuses may be acute or chronic, and be induced by those organisms to which we have already referred. It is characterised by such changes as are usually associated with inflammation of mucous membranes. These vary with the severity of the infection, and are modified according to the patency or occlusion of the orifice of the cavity. In acute inflamma- tion the mucosa becomes congested, infiltrated with round cells, and swollen, while a serous exudation is poured out, constituting an acute catarrh of the membrane. This exudation may become seropurulent or purulent, and if mixed with a quantity of mucus it presents a muco purulent character. If the ostium of the sinus becomes blocked by the swollen mucous mem- brane, the exudation is retained under tension, and the clinical symptoms and signs become aggravated. Distension of the bony wall of the cavity, where there is least resistance, may occur, and in some cases be followed by perfora- tion, and the formation of a fistula and its sequelae. Spontaneous cure may result; on the other hand, the inflammatory process may become chronic. In many cases the affection is not recognised clinically until this stage is reached. When a chronic suppuration exists various secondary changes are met with in the mucous membrane. The round cell infiltration already referred to may be followed by the formation of new fibrous tissue, causing thickening of the membrane. The mucous glands are to a large extent destroyed, while cysts varying consider- ably in size are formed by dilatation of the gland ducts, or even of the acini themselves.