PARALYSIS 298 to the pain which the child has, and the fact that the child resents any movement, the disease is often regarded as rheumatism or some acute affection of the bones or joints. In acute epiphysitis there is often a sudden loss of power with complete flaccid palsy of one extremity, generally the arm. This affection commonly occurs in infants of a few weeks to a few months old who are the subjects of con- genital syphilis, but in many ways this paralysis closely simulates acute anterior poliomyelitis. The following points usually make the diagnosis clear : the child is usually considerably younger than the age at which infantile paralysis occurs ; the paralysis is not complete; there is often some thickening about the epiphysis, but this again is not always present when the flaccid condition of the arm is first noticed. The amount of pain on movement of the joint in these cases is often very slight. When the epiphysis at the upper end of the humerus is involved there is complete flaccid palsy of the whole limb, and when that at the lower end there is wrist-drop. The electrical reactions are unaltered. Injury to the brachial plexus may give rise to flaccid palsy. This may occur either at the time of birth or at some subsequent period. The injury that occurs at birth is usually the result of traction on the arm and a history of prolonged labour, and that the paralysis was noticed immediately after delivery is obtained. The injury is not uncommonly confined to one set of muscles, of which the most commonly involved are those supplied by the fifth cervical root, viz., the deltoid, biceps, and supinator longus. Without a distinct history of the paralysis having existed since birth, the diagnosis is often difficult, for the absence of sensory changes and trophic disturbance of the skin does not exclude the possibility of some peri- pheral lesion. Injury to the Brachial Plexus after Birth.— Cases are sometimes seen in which there is a definite history of injury followed by paralysis, and this paralysis is attributed to injury of the brachial plexus. In many of the cases the amount of the affection is out of all proportion to the nature of the injury ; for instance the whole arm may be paralysed and all the muscles absolutely flaccid, and this may be attributed to a fall on the shoulder. Such a widespread palsy would involve all the roots from the fifth cervical to the first dorsal. Here, again, the absence of all sensory impairment and the absence of trophic changes in the skin would all point to an affection of the anterior horns rather than to one of the peripheral nerves. Infantile hemiplegia or monoplegia will some- times give rise to an appearance which at first sight may somewhat resemble infantile paralysis. The limb may be wasted and cold, there is marked loss of power, and there may be some deformity of the foot. The limb, however, is generally somewhat rigid; the knee-jerk is ex- aggerated ; ankle clonus may be present, though this is not common; and the plantar reflex may may be of the extensor type, although in this connection it should be remembered that when the calf muscles are paralysed it is not unusual to obtain extension of the great toe on stimu- lating the sole of the foot. The affection of the arm and leg on the same side would also be in favour of a cerebral lesion, but it must be remembered that occasionally when the arm is affected by infantile paralysis the leg on the same side is sometimes weak from involvement of the pyramid on the same side. In cases of doubt the question can be easily settled by an electrical examination of the muscles. Congenital spastic paraplegia is sometimes mistaken for infantile paralysis, though in a typical form of the disease the error seems hardly possible. In some cases, when there is retraction of the flexor muscles, the knee-jerks are not obtainable, so that the two conditions might be mistaken. The spastic condition of the muscles should at once serve to distinguish the disease from infantile paralysis. Myopathy may occasionally be mistaken for an anterior poliomyelitis ; but it is more fre- quent for a widespread anterior poliomyelitis to be mistaken for a myopathy, more especially when there is affection of the extensor muscles of the thighs and the muscles of the back, for then the position assumed by the patient in rising from the floor is exactly that of a child with myopathy. The gradual onset, the wide distribution of muscles affected, and the group- ing of the muscles so affected, generally render the diagnosis easy. An electrical examination of the muscles would also aid in the diagnosis, for in the case of a myopathy there is simple quantitative alteration without any qualitative change. From a multiple neuritis either following diphtheria or some other infection or cause, the slower onset, the less complete and the more widely distributed paralysis, and the con- comitant affection of one or more of the cranial nerves, together with the fact that complete recovery gradually takes place, make the diagnosis easy. Hsemorrhage into the spinal cord has been diagnosed as infantile paralysis, but the extreme rarity of the affection would hardly ever lead to its suggestion unless some unusual etiological circumstance were present. Treatment.—If the patient is seen during the acute stage of the disease, the pain in the back, which is often considerable, may be relieved by the application of leeches, hot fomentations, and counter-irritation. The child should, if possible, be made to lie in the prone position in bed. If convulsions are present, or the