PAEASITES 341 submucous tissue and mesenteric glands. Two cases of coccidiosis of the intestine in the human subject were recorded by Eimer in Berlin (1870). Coccidium higeniinum (Stiles, 1892) measures 8-1.5 fjL long by 6-10 fj. broad, and is found in the substance of the intestinal villi of the cat, dog, and other mammals. The coccidia found in the human subject by Kjelberg (1860), and Eailliet and Lucet (1893), are possibly examples of C. bigeminum. Coccidium avium (Silvestrini and Rivolta, 1873) ; Syn. : C. tenellum (Railliet and Lucet, 1891).—It has been detected in fowls and pheasants, and regarded as the cause of an en- teritis at times fatal; it is also claimed as the cause of diphtheritic inflammation of the mouth, pharynx, and larynx of fowls and other birds (M'Fadyean, 1894; and others). Structures, regarded as coccidia by those who detected them, have been seen in one case in a pleural exudation (Kiinstler and Pitres, 1884), in other instances in the kidney and ureters, and, lastly, in the pearly growths of molluscum contagiosum. II. Hixmowporidia are telosporidia in which schizogony takes place in the blood of verte- brates, and sporogony occurs in arthropods. The vertebrate animal is the intermediate host, the arthropod the definite host. In many re- spects our knowledge of the hsemosporidia is still very incomplete, and largely on this account there is no general agreement as to their classi- fication and nomenclature. In view of these facts, and remembering that a classification which to-day appears correct will probably be antiquated in a few months, it is manifestly inadvisable to give any classification here. One of the most recent will be found in the monograph of Neveu-Lemaire, Les hemato- zoa ir'es du 2Mludisme (1901). The life-cycle has been most fully worked out in certain haemosporidia, for example Plas- modium malaria', which undergo sporogony in mosquitoes. The cycle has been already de- scribed in detail in the article on malaria. All that is therefore necessary is to give a diagram- matic representation of the life-cycle (Fig. 4) in order to illustrate the close analogy between that of the hsemosporidia and that of the coccidiida. Hoemosporidia of Batrachians and Reptiles.— There are a number of different species. Frogs, turtles, and lizards are the chief hosts. At certain stages of development the parasites are situated in the red blood corpuscles; at other stages sickle-shaped and elongated bodies are free in the blood serum. The life-cycle is im- perfectly understood, but Schaudinn (1899) suggests that these haemosporidia require no alteration of host in order to complete their development. There is but little haemolysis caused by most of these haemosporidia. Hcemosporidia of birds have been detected in pigeons, owls, crows, sparrows, starlings, and other birds. The parasites are usually grouped into two or three species:— 1. Halteridium Danilewskii (Labbe); Syn.: Hmmamoeba Danileivskii (Grassi and Feletti); etc., is a common parasite in many parts of the world, but not markedly pathogenetic. The sporozoites penetrate into the red blood cor- puscles and develop into pigmented, round, elongated, or constricted bodies. The asexual cycle in the avian host is completed in seven or eight days. Sexual elements have been found in the blood plasma, but sexual multi- plication occurs within species of Gulex. [Schaudinn's investigations appear to prove that Halteridium is an intracorpuscular phase Fig. 4.—Diagram of the developmental cycle oiHcemoproteus. (Luhe, after Schaudinn.) 1. Sporozoite (or raerozoite) within a red blood corpuscle. 2. Fully-developed sehizont. 3. Nuclear prolifera- tion. 4. Formation of merozoites. 5. and 5a. Se.xual elements (5, macrogamete; 5a, microgametocyte). 6. and 6a. Ripe sexual elements (6a, microgametocyte forming microgametes). 7. Fer- tilisation. 8. Ookinet. 9. Sporoblast formation in the oocyst. 10. Formation of sporozoites. 11. Sporozoite. in the life-cycle of trypanosoma noctux. During its development in the blood of its host the trypanosome goes through alternating diurnal and nocturnal phases : at night the free try- panosome form is found in the blood, chiefly of the internal organs ; during the day it enters the corpuscles, and attains the halteridium phase. These successive phases last for six days and six nights, by which time the trypanosome is fully grown, and begins to multiply by fission.] 2. Hcenoproteus Danilewskii (Kruse); Syn. : Proteosoma Grassii (Labbe); etc., is common in all countries, and more highly pathogenetic than the last-mentioned species, causing avian malaria. The intracorpuscular parasites are often spherical, and usually pigmented with melanin. The asexual formation of merozoites is readily observed in the blood of the host. Schizogony is completed in four or five days, sporogony in the middle intestine of species of