PAEALYSIS 293 recovery, despite the fact that the arrest may not take place in some until the respiratory muscles are so weak that there is serious embarrassment of breathing, and the patient appears to be in great jeopardy. Convalescence may only last a few weeks, or it may be pro- longed to several months. In other cases, although the disease becomes arrested, there is unfortunately little or no recovery, and most if not all of the affected muscles remain per- manently paralysed or undergo atrophy. The forecast depends on what stage the ill- ness has reached before the patient is seen, and on whether the disease has become arrested or is still progressing. Prognosis as regards life depends on the degree of affection of the muscles of respiration, and on whether there is disturbed heart's action, or other evidence that the morbid process has attacked the medulla oblongata. Moreover, when the case is seen in the early stages a guarded prognosis must be given, for any of these untoward symptoms may, of course, become manifest later. The possibility of re- covery from the paralysis can only be estimated after the disease has become arrested, and a favourable opinion is then only justified when there are distinct signs of improvement within at least a few weeks of the arrest, for the out- look is hopeless when several months have elapsed without any, or but slight signs of recovery from the paralysis. Treatment.—If the case is seen early, mercu- rial inunction ought to be commenced at once, whether there is a syphilitic history or not, for this drug may reasonably be expected to influence other toxic blood states as well as that due to syphilis. Strychnia should be administered by subcutaneous injection—a pro- cedure that becomes imperative on the appear- ance of any signs of weakness of the muscles of respiration. Ergotiu has been recommended, and one patient improved so much while taking this drug that it deserves a trial in other cases. Hot or vapour baths have been recommended at the outset in cases that follow exposure to cold, and counter-irritation to the spine has also been supposed to be of service. The patient's strength has to be maintained by nutritious food, but care must be observed in its adminis- tration when there is difficulty of swallowing, so as to avoid choking or the impaction of food in the larynx. The difficulty in swallowing may be so great as to necessitate the use of the nasal tube. Care is needed not to overload the stomach, or induce flatulent distension, for either may seriously embarrass breathing when the muscles of respiration are weak. If the patient survive the acuter stages of the attack, all our efforts must afterwards be directed to keep up the nutrition by good food and cod-liver oil and malt preparations, and to prevent him from taking cold, for bronchitis and pneumonia readily prove fatal in consequence of the weak- ness of the muscles of respiration. The use of strychnia must be continued, though it may now be given by the mouth, and other tonics, such as iron, phosphorus, quinine, and arsenic, may be substituted from time to time. Local measures are of great value at this stage of the illness, for by massage and galvanism we may hope to improve the nutrition of the muscles that have already wasted, and to lessen the degree of atrophy in cases that are seen before this has become a prominent feature of the paralysis. III. Paralysis with Atrophy of Muscles {See also Muscles, Diseases of : vol. vi.) Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis.—Definition. —A disease of acute or sudden onset, occurring commonly in young children, and characterised by loss of power and usually subsequent wasting of the part affected, without loss of sensation or affection of sphincters. Etiology: Age.—By far the greater number of cases occur during the first three years of life, the greatest number during the second year. After the end of the third year the disease becomes less frequent, and after the age of six it may be considered rare ; cases, however, occur both in adult life and old age. Sejc..—This would seem to have no influence, since the disease occurs in about an equal number of cases in the two sexes. Seasonal Relationship.—That the disease is dependent on the season of the year is clearly shown by an analysis of the time of onset in a series of cases. The period of year in which the onset is most common is during the months of July and August. Starting from January, the curve remains low till the end of May or the beginning of June, when it rapidly rises, reaching its maximum in August, and then some- what suddenly falls to its mean in November. The period of onset thus corresponds with the months of greatest heat in England. Other Etiological Factors.—The relation of the disease to the acute specific fevers is one of extreme importance. It has been observed to follow scarlet fever, measles, whooping-cough, typhoid fever, pneumonia, diphtheria, and ma- laria, and the relationship has been too frequent to allow of doubt that there is some significance in the connection. Exposure to cold and damp is not infrequently the assigned cause, and in view of the pathology of the affection may certainly be regarded as important factors. Some cases have been noted to follow injury. The occurrence of the disease in an epidemic form is definitely established, since well-marked epidemics have been reported in various countries and in parts of the country which at other times have been perfectly free from the malady. In relation to this epidemic form must be noted the occurrence of febrile attacks and