PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 570 temporo-sphenoidal lobe this region gets carried outwards and is represented by a swelling, the lobus pyriformis, on the inner aspect under the uncus (Fig. 109). The cortex in the region indicated in the figure has a peculiar arrange- ment of cells. The medullated fibres to this area are early developed (Fig. 108a, 4a). Ferrier states that removal of the hippocampal convolution, including the lobus pyriformis in monkeys, leads to loss of taste and smell, and that stimulation causes torsion of the nostrils and lips, as if sensations of smell or taste were being experienced. Other experimenters have observed inter- ference with the sense of smell in destructive lesions of the hippocampal lobe, and one case at least has been desci-ibed in which a tumour of the right gyrus hippocampus was associated with sensations of smell. Touch.—Ferrier thought that removal of the hippocampal convolution caused loss of tactile sense, while Schafer describes the gyrus forni- catus as the centre for this sense. It has been objected that in removing this lobe the fibres going to the areas on the outside of the cortex are apt to be injured. According to the observa- tions of Mott, when the cortex round the fissure of Rolando—in which the mechanism for causing the various combinations of muscular move- ments is situated—is removed in the monkey, clips may be attached to the skin on the opposite side of the body without attracting attention, while if they are placed on the same side they are at once removed. He therefore regards the Rolandic area of the brain as con- nected with the reception of tactile impressions. This view is strongly supported by the evi- dence of morphology. The ascending parietal convolution is early supplied by medullated fibres coming from the thalamus (Fig. 108b, 2), and in it a type of cell distribution similar to that in the other sensory areas exists (Fig. 109). Further, in this region Campbell has described degenerative changes as the result of extensive disease of the posterior nerve roots. As already indicated, this centre must act as a chart of the surface of the body, stimulation of any definite part of the body leading to changes in the definite part of the centre, and these changes are accompanied by sensations referred to the part stimulated. We know nothing of the locality of centres connected with the thermal and muscular senses. B. Storing and Associating Mechanism.—The existence of a special part or parts of the brain connected with the storing of impressions, so that they may be associated with present sensa- tions, is indicated by the following considera- tions :—It is this association of present stimuli with past sensations which is the basis of intel- lectual life, and in man, where apparently the intellectual functions are most highly developed, the frontal and parietal lobes of the brain are much larger than in the lower animals. So far stimulation of these lobes has failed to give indication of resulting sensations or to produce muscular movements. They may be extensively injured without loss of sensation and without paralysis, and hence it has been concluded that the storing and associating functions must be chiefly located in them. Further, in these regions the nerve fibres acquire their medullary sheath at a very late date. C Discharging Mechanism.—(a) The position of the discharging mechanism for cerebral action has been definitely localised, by pathological and experimental observation, in the cerebral con- volutions round, or probably chiefly in front of, the fissure of Rolando or sulcus centralis (Fig. 107, p. 567). Destructive lesions of this area on one side cause a loss of the so-called voluntary action of groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body. The cerebral arc is stimulated and acts along certain lines—possibly with the accompaniment of changes in consciousness and a sensation of decision as to the line of action to be taken and a desire to accomplish it—but this so-called volition is not accompanied by the appropriate muscular action. From the fre- quent involvement of the so-called volition in these actions, and from the fact that it is the metaphysical changes which figure in our con- sciousness rather than the physical changes which are their basis, we are accustomed to assume that the movements produced are the result of volition, and to speak of them as volun- tary movements, and of the brain mechanism producing them as voluntary centres. There is no harm in doing so, if we remember that these centres can and do act without the involvement of consciousness, and, therefore, without voli- tion ; and that their action generally implies the previous action of parts of the receiving and associating mechanism of the cerebrum. But certain lesions may directly stimulate these centres, causing them to act without the previous action of the other cerebral mechanisms. This is seen in Jacksonian epilepsy, where, as the result of a spicule of bone or a thickened bit of membrane, one part of the cortex is from time to time excited, and by its action produces movement of certain groups of muscles. Experimental observations have fully con- firmed and extended the conclusions arrived at from such pathological evidence. If parts of these convolutions be excised in the monkey, the animal loses the power of voluntary movement of certain groups of muscles, while if they are stimulated by electricity these gi'oups of muscles respond. These convolutions, just in front of the fissure of Rolando, may be considered as a map of the various muscular combinations throughout the body, the map l^eing mounted so that the lower part represents the face, the middle part the arm, and the upper part the leg. Each large