PARASITES 360 some toxic substance which the worm naturally possesses or excretes as a product of its meta- bolism. Of such phenomena, which are most frequently seen in children, nervous irritability, pruritus and picking of the nose, grinding of the teeth, strabismus, dilatation of the pupils, head- ache, muscular twitchings, choreic movements, convulsions, and urticaria may be mentioned. It is usually difficult to determine to what extent such symptoms as these are due to the presence of intestinal parasites. In many cases they are quite independent of any such cause, but the phenomena entirely cease, in not a few cases, after expulsion of all the ascarides. Unless the parasites are passed spontaneously, the diagnosis is to be determined by detection of the characteristic ova on microscopic examina- tion of the faeces. Only a small quantity need be examined, for if there are any ova at all they are numerous. A common and useful method is the examination of the material filling the eye of an ordinary metal catheter, after it has been passed a short distance into the rectum. Treatment is commenced only after detection of ascarides or their ova. Santonin is the most reliable drug. It is most suitably administered in powder form, in castor oil, or in the case of infants, in olive oil. When santonin is given to a fasting patient, it is a more efficacious anthel- mintic, but is then generally regarded as more liable to induce yellow vision (xanthopsia), vertigo, vomiting, convulsions, or other toxic effects. The drug should be given on two or three successive nights, and followed by castor oil each morning. The worms are often, but not invariably, dead when expelled. Turpen- tine, thymol, and naphthalin are recommended by some as substitutes for santonin. Attention should be paid to the patient's diet; carbohy- drates and all articles containing sugar should be prohibited as far as possible, milk, fish, and meat forming the chief articles of diet for a few days. Various species of ascaris are parasitic in the lower animals. One of the most frequent is Ascaris canis; Syn: A. mystax, which occurs chiefly in the cat and dog. It is claimed to have been found in one or two instances in the human subject. Oxyuris vermicularis (LiiuK^, 1767); the thread-worm.—The male is 3-5 mm. long, the caudal end is obtuse and ventrally curved, and bears one spicule; the female is 10 mm. long, the posterior end pointed. Both are white in colour. The female is oviparous, the eggs being oval, 50 /a long and about 20 fx. broad, and the shell dense, though somewhat thin. The embryo within the shell is often developed whilst the egg is still in the uterus, but if not, is rapidly developed in the presence of warmth, for example, in the fseces. The life-cycle is completed without a change of host. Infection occurs by the ingestion of eggs along with contaminated water, uncooked vegetables or fruit. The shell is then digested, and the embryo, after escaping, develops into the adult worm. This parasite is found in all countries, and is FIG. i^.—Oxyuris vermicu- fiq. 27.—Eggs of Oxyuris vermi- laris, male and female. cularis. (After Hosier and (After Gerhardt-Seifert.) Peiper.) probably more common than any other ento- zoon, being specially frequent in children. Its habitat is the lumen of the large intestine, more especially the csecum, sigmoid flexure of the colon, and rectum, though the worms are also found in the ileum. M. A. Ruffer (1901) in one case found the eggs in the wall of the rectum, and he suggests that the female may frequently penetrate the mucous membrane. The worms frequently migrate from the rectum, chiefly on to the skin in the anal region, and may thus reach the vulva. The presence of oxyurides in the rectum and likewise their migration cause great pruritus, and the scratch- ing to relieve this is often followed by the adhesion of eggs to the fingers and reinfection of the host. In some instances the oxyurides cause no symptoms, and are detected accidentally. In the great majority of patients, however, irritation and pruritus in the anal region are the chief symptoms; both are intensified at night-time, because the oxyurides then tend to migrate from the rectum, and the patient's sleep is often very markedly disturbed. Secondary lesions, the results of scratching, are not uncommon in the anal and perineal regions. Other common symptoms are intes- tinal catarrh, with diarrhoea, tenesmus, pro- lapsus recti, and enuresis. In female patients the worms not infrequently migrate to the vulva and vagina, causing vulvo-vaginitis and in some cases leading to masturbation. In some patients indirect nervous symptoms, re- sembling those produced by Ascaris lumbricoides, may be observed. In every patient in whom there is nocturnal pruritus ani, oxyurides should be suspected. If they be present, they are easily seen like small, white, actively motile threads on inspection of the anus or dejecta. If the worms cannot be detected by the naked eye, microscopic search for the eggs is of but little value. Treatment should not be commenced until the presence of the worms is ascertained. They