208 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE tumour displaces the posterior layer of meso- metrium so as to become entirely retro-peri- toneal ; this is occasionally seen in the case of an ovarian cyst, and when the cyst is a tubal gestation sac it constitutes Taylor's " posterior Ov.- Fig. 2.—Common " parovarian " or broad ligament cyst in mesosalpinx tubo-ligamentary pregnancy." Fig. 6 represents an ovarian tumour burrowing into the meso- metrium alone. The author and others have operated in cases where this form of tumour was detected. It can be distinguished by the complete freedom of the mesosalpinx and tube, whilst the base of the cyst dips very deeply into the connective tissue of the pelvis. This is the usual form of encapsulation in fibroids of the broad ligament; in such a case not only the mesosalpinx and tube, but the ovary as well, lie on the tumour. The operator must remember that all tumours burrowing into the meso- metrium come into close relation with the ureter and also with the rectum. False Capsule.—Pawlik distinguishes a " pseudo-intraligamentary ovarian tumour." In this condition the tumour appears as though encapsuled between the folds of the broad ligament, when in reality the tube and mesosalpinx are plastered down on to the surface of the tumour by firm adhesions, and the lower parts of the tumour are strongly adherent to Douglas's pouch (Fig. 7). Complications.—The most remark- able complication associated with ovarian tumour is twisting of the pedicle, though not absolutely peculiar to this form of growth. It will there- fore be specially considered. Ascites occasionally develops in simple cases of common ovarian cyst; the author has observed much ascites where the cyst-wall was smooth, where no evidence of rupture existed, and where there was no trace of malignant growth or papilloma. In dermoid disease it is, for no evident reason, not common. In free papilloma and in papillary cysts, where some of the growths have perforated the cyst-wall, it is always present, and usually to an extensive degree. It is often present in fibroma, and develops early in all forms of malignant disease. When the patient suffers from a visceral disease which causes ascites, the presence of an ovarian tumour hastens the appearance of that compli- cation for evident reasons. Pleural effusion is, of course, grave when associated with carcinoma or sar- coma, but is not pathognomonic of ma- lignancy. Inflammation of the tumour is an im- portant complication, as it tends to the development of adhesions, and may end in suppuration. The clinical history is sometimes, but not always clear. There is usually fever and dull pain. These symptoms may be contrasted with the acute localised pain with general good health observed in typical cases of acute torsion of the pedicle. Suppuration of the tumour is mostly due to infection from adherent intestine. It is relatively common after labour, and a suppurating tube may infect a tumour. It has been observed to follow typhoid fever. —Af./ns. mm.. Fig. 3.—Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing in mesosalpinx (usually papillomatous) But inflammatory symptoms in a case of tumour of the ovary are usually due to local peritonitis, often primary, being caused by the irritation of a tumour itself free from any inflammatory process. Dermoids, seldom associated with ascites, are very apt to set up localised peritonitis, even