NEURENTERIC CANAL 46 in the human embryo. See Embryology {End of Second Week). NeurhypnolOgy.—The science of the phenomena of hypnotism or nerve-sleep. See Hypnotism. Ne uridine.—A ptomaine, malodorous but non-poisonous, produced during the putrefaction of beef, muscle, horse-flesh, fish, etc.; its formula is Neurine (Cf,Hj3N0) and choline (C.HjjNOj), on the other hand, are toxic. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Putrefac- tion of Fish). Neurilemma. — The primitive sheath of a nerve-fibre, a thin transparent membrane, to be distinguished from the white sheath (medullary sheath) or sheath of Schwann, which is developed later. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve). NeurilemmitiS.—Inflammation of the neurilemma {q.v.). Neurine.—(1) Nerve tissue, the white and grey substance of the central nervous system; also (2) a poisonous ptomaine or alka- loid (CjHjgNO) produced by the decomposition of flesh, whose action resembles muscarine in some particulars and curara in others ; also (3) an extract of nerve tissue used medicinally. Neuritis. — Inflammation of a nerve. See Nerves, Peripheral, Injuries and Dis- eases {Traumatic Neuritis, Multiple Neuritis, etc.). See also Alcoholism {Sensory Variations and Pathology) ; Balneology {Disorders of the Nervous System); Bed-Sores {Acute Bed-Sore) ; Beriberi {Sym2)toms); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Results, Trophic Changes); Chest- Wall, Affections of {Pain in the Chest, Inter- costal Neuritis); Chlorosis {Symptoms) ; De- formities {Metatarsalgia); Electricity {Gal- vanism in Neuritis); Gout {Irregular Gout, Nervous System); Hemiplegia {Trophic and other Changes); Hydropathy {I71 Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Leprosy {Symptoms of Lepra Alaculo-Anmsthetica) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of (Complications, Nervous System, Peripheral Newritis); Nails, Affections of {Diseases of the Nervous System); Osteo-Arthropathies {Mode of Production); VvuvvKJt {Symptomatic, Nervous); Retina and Optic Nerve {Inflamma- tion of the Optic Nerve); Rheumatism in Chil- dren {Nervous Affections); Rheumatism, Rheu- matoid Arthritis {Clinical Characters, Neuritis); Syphilis (Visceral, Peripheral Nerves); Syrin- gomyelia {Diagnosis); Tabes Dorsalis {Dia- gnosis) ; Toxicology {Chronic PlumUsm, Symp- toms); ToxicohOGY {Carbon Bisulphide); Trades, Dangerous {Bisulphide of Carbon Poisoning); Undulant Fever {Symptoms, Nervous System). Neuro-.—in compound words neiiro- (Gr. vtvpov, a nerve), as a prefix, signifies relating to nerves or the nervous system; e.g. neuroblast (an embryonic nerve-cell which develops into a mature nerve-cell and nerve-fibre), neuroclonic (in relation to spasms of a nervous nature), and neuromyositis (inflammation affecting both nerve and muscle). Neurobiacia,.—A state of nervous in- sensibility (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, and /3Aa|, in- active or sluggish). Neurocardiac. — Belonging to the nervous system and to the heart; thus exoph- thalmic goitre has been called a neurocardiac malady. NeurOCllOroiditiS. —Inflammation of the choroid and the optic nerve. See Retina AND Optic Nerve {Inflammation). NeuroCOSle.—The central canal of the spinal cord and the cerebral ventricles. Neurocyte.—A nerve-cell or neuron. Neurodendron.—A neuron {q.v.). Neurodin.—An antipyretic drug (acetyl- paraoxyphenyimethane) used in neuralgia and in fever (dose, 5-20 grs.). Neurodynia.—Nerve pain; practically synonymous with neuralgia. Neuro-epitheiium.—The epithelium entering into the constitution of the end organs of sensory nerves {e.g. of the retina and tongue). Neurofibroma.—A swelling of a nerve due to hyperplasia of the connective tissue of the fibre. Neurofibromatosis. —A disease characterised by the occurrence of multiple neurofibromata ; von Recklinghausen's disease. In this malady there are tumours on the nerve- trunks, multiple subcutaneous fibrous nodules {Elephantiasis neuromatosa), pigmented cuta- neous areas or congenital nsevi, and various sensory and motor phenomena and mental changes. A. Thomson's work on Neuroma and Neurofibromatosis, published in 1900, gives a good account of this peculiar disease. Neurog'lia. — The delicate connective tissue of the nervous system. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, Spinal Cord); Insanity, Patho- logy OF {Neuroglia); Syringomyelia {Patho- logical Anatomy). Neurog^iioma. See Brain, Tumours OF {Glioma). NeurOg^raphy.—Descriptive neurology. Neurohypnologry. See Nburhyp- nology.