NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 109 should we fail to detect any secretion in this meatus by anterior rhinoscopy. Any one of the cavities above mentioned may be aiTected alone, or any two or all three in combination, hence at the very outset a difficulty in diagnosis is met with. As the maxillary sinus is most frequently the source of the trouble, and as its anatomical position brings it most readily under examination, we proceed in the first place to investigate it. iii. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in THE Anterior Group op Sinuses.—A. The Maxillary Antrum.—(a) Frankel's Posture Test. —It is now necessary to thoroughly remove every trace of pus from the anterior part of the middle meatus. This may be conveniently effected by means of a pledget of cotton-wool wrapped round the end of a probe. The patient is then directed to bend his head forwards in such a way that the vertex becomes dependent, while the cheek of the suspected side is at the same time turned uppermost. This position is maintained for two or three minutes : the test sometimes loses its value if the head is not kept sufficiently long in this position. After the head has been raised the middle meatus is again inspected. The re- appearance of pus in this situation at once strongly suggests its antral source, and Frankel's test is spoken of as positive. The position of the ostium maxillare under the roof of the antrum sufficiently explains this phenomenon (Fig. 1). Significant though it is, it is, however, not conclusive. Even in antral suppuration Frankel's test may prove negative, though at a subsequent examination the reappearance of pus may be noted, a circumstance which may possibly depend upon the quantity of secretion that happens to be in the cavity at the time of inspection. Again, the position of the ostia of the ethmoid bulla and of the middle turbinated cell towards the upper part of their respective cavities will tend to make this test positive in anterior ethmoidal cell suppuration. Greville Macdonald asserts that, after the head has been dependent, he has found pus re- appear in the middle meatus quite as frequently in frontal sinus suppuration. In spite of these possibilities, there is no doubt that the posture test when positive is of considerable value in the diagnosis of maxillary suppuration. {h) The Suction Test.—Seifert and Rethi have recently advocated the use of the following method in diagnosis :—After all trace of pus has been removed from the nasal chamber, the nozzle of a Politzer's bag already compressed is introduced into the nostril of the suspected side; the anterior nares are closed, and, when the patient is directed to swallow, the bag is allowed to suddenly expand. The object of this manoeuvre is to withdraw by suction some of the secretion from the sinuses. The nose is again inspected and pus sought for in the middle meatus. Should it be visible in that situation its sinus origin is suggested, but there still remains the difficulty of definitely tracing it to one or other of the ostia situated in that channel. (c) The Illumination Test.—A knowledge of the fact first demonstrated by Voltolini and later developed by Heryng, that luminous electric rays can be transmitted through the bony walls of many healthy maxillary sinuses, has furnished us with a diagnostic aid of con- siderable value. In order to effect this the following method is adopted :—Should the patient wear a dental plate, he is directed in the first instance to remove it; the room is then darkened, or the patient's head and shoulders, along with those of the observer, are enveloped in a black cloth, great care being taken to exclude every source of ex- traneous light. A small electric 8-volt lamp of about 1 ampere current is employed. This is fitted to a special tongue-depressor, which is provided with a detachable vulcanic plate. The electrical current can be obtained from a suit- able accumulator. The tongue-depressor is placed in the centre of the mouth and the patient's lips are closed upon its stem. He is then directed to close his eyes. Contact is made by pressure upon a button in the handle of the spatula. Three phenomena of illumina- tion may be met with. The rays of light traversing the maxillary cavities may become visible to the observer on the cheeks of the patient as a small crescent-shaped zone of light situated immediately below each eye. This illuminated area varies in size and in intensity, but it indicates that the rays have penetrated the cavity. In most cases the light is trans- mitted through the soft tissues of the cheek, producing a considerable area of illumination, which, however, must not be taken into con- sideration. The rays as they pass through the roof of the antrum and the coats of the eyeballs are thrown upon the retinae, and are perceived by the patient as a subjective light sensation ; this phenomenon was first pointed out by Brown Kelly. It is also possible in many cases, after the patient has been directed to open his eyes, for the observer on looking through the pupils to see the light reflection. A comparison of the results obtained on the two sides is then made. While variations in the intensity of the illumination on the two sides are met with, it is not common to find in healthy antra complete opacity on one side associated with a bright area of illumination upon the other. If illumination is negative, it occurs more fre- quently on both sides. The subjective sensa- tion of light and the pupil reflection also vary to some extent in health, and the latter test is perhaps better left out of account. When the mucous membrane of the antrum is inflamed and the cavity contains pus, or when it is