210 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE cyst from a blow or from hfemorrhage into its anterior may cause acute symptoms and even speedy death. The cardinal symptom in all these cases is the disappearance of abdominal swelling. Speedy operation is needed in all cases. rims. to divide itself gradually so that the tumour is cut off completely from its old attachments. The degree of torsion varies greatly—the pedicle may be twisted one-third of a turn, half a turn, or one, two, or three turns; all these condi- tions are frequent, and associated with varying degrees of tenseness. As many as twenty-five turns have been observed, but they rarely exceed three. Torsion is observed oftener in small than in large tumours ; relaxed abdominal walls, and, above all, pregnancy and labour predispose the patient to this complication. In several other kinds of abdominal tumour the pedicle may become twisted. A fibroid may twist the lower part of the uterus itself, a pedunculated fibi'oid may rotate round its pedicle. Pozzi reports torsion of a tubal gesta- tion sac at the end of the third month. Sub- botic, who has removed many spleens for malarial hypertrophy, finds that the pedicle is often twisted. Violent action of the abdominal muscles, falls, etc., may certainly be ranked among the causes. Straining during defsecation caused acute torsion in one case under the author's observation, but it is not certain how far the other factors in deftecation assist in FIG. 6,-Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing into raesometrium, leaving causing torsion. The emptying and filling of mesosaiDinx intact. s> _ r j o o Ov.— A..L mm I'i.mm..— mesosalpinx intact. Intracystic haemorrhage is rare, except in association with torsion of the pedicle; in the days of tapping it was more frequent. Occasionally quite a pint of fresh or old blood is found in a loculus. When the cyst bursts from and during haemorrhage, the result may be speedy death. An exploratory incision should always be made in a case where there are symptoms of internal haemor- rhage, with diminution in the size of the abdomen. If a ruptured or bleeding cyst be found, the pedicle should be clamped at once, and ligatured at leisure after all clots and fluid blood have been cleared away. Twisting of Pedicle : Axial Rotation OF Ovarian Tumours is a well-known com- plication. In its slighter forms the operator may fail to recognise this complication; on the other hand, a large cyst often rotates on its pedicle during emptying and extrac- tion in ovariotomy, so that the surgeon may be under the erroneous impression that the pedicle was twisted before the operation. Lehmann and Martin, taking all sources of error into consideration, make out the per- centage of twisted pedicle in all cases of ovarian tumour submitted to operation as between 5 and 7. Authorities are not agreed as to what is precisely meant by torsion from right to left, or vice versd, hence much confusion in monographs on this matter. The tumour drags on the ovarian ligament and then rotates. The torsion may be very loose so as to produce no effect on the tumour, or very tight so as to strangulate it at once, or the bladder may play a part in some cases. As to causes in the tumour itself, irregular growth, want of uniformity in weight at different parts, and a short narrow pedicle, greatly pre- dispose to torsion. Hence dermoids are specially subject to this complication, as are fibromata D.P— ad — Al.mm, mm. Fig. 7.—Pawlili's " pseudo-intraligamentary ovarian tumour." It is an ovarian cyst whicli, lilie O.cy. in Fig. 1, does not burrow, ad., ad- liesiODS plastering the tube and mesosalpinx and uniting the peri- toneum of Douglas's pouch (B.P.) to the cyst. and sarcomata of irregular form. In bilateral disease one tumour may twist the other, or, as in a case under the author's care, one tumour may undergo chronic rotation, the other be- coming suddenly twisted. Symptoms and Effects.—Acute torsion of the