390 PELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM attacks of pelvic peritonitis are common, and indeed form a valuable diagnostic indication of the presence of tubal disease which otherwise shows no signs of its presence. Clinical Features.—Acute pelvic pain as- sociated with fever and frequently vomiting, and more or less intestinal distension, are the characteristic symptoms. The patient lies on her back with the legs drawn up and assumes an anxious expression. The temperature is usually high, 103° F., but there is seldom mani- festations of a rigor. Micturition is frequently painful if the iniiammation has extended for- wards to the covering of the bladder. Diarrhoea is very common, though constipation may be present. After the subsidence of the acute attack, pain may only be experienced on certain movements, and the patient rapidly returns to apparent health; but frequently, as has been stated, re- current attacks are prone to occur. On examination during an acute attack there is extreme tenderness to touch over the lower abdomen, with great rigidity of the abdominal muscles. Bimanual examination is practically only possible under an anaesthetic, when the presence of the exudation, and fixation and matting will be made apparent. The retro- uterine pouch will be felt to be filled with exu- dation. The uterus may with difficulty be mapped out from the surrounding structures to which it is firmly fixed, or in some cases may be felt to be tilted above the symphysis pubis. Frequently, the entire vaginal roof appears as if it had been boarded over, while intravaginal cervix is free and movable. After the acute conditions have passed and the general exuda- tion been absorbed, there is usually left an area of thickening and adhesion at the original site of the inflammation. This may closely resemble a cellulitic exudation, and the differential dia- gnosis may prove extremely difficult. The history of the case, the presence of severe pain, and the free intravaginal cervix will, however, materially help in the differentiation. Prognosis.—The prognosis must at all times be guarded and indefinite. Though recovery from the acute attack may usually be looked for, the source of the inflammation still remains, and future attacks liable to occur. Further permanent adhesions causing much pain and discomfort are liable to pei'sist, while inter- ference with intestinal movements may cause much trouble with the bowels. Complete re- covery may take place, and this greatly depends on the origin of the inflammatory attack. Treatment.—This may be divided into medical and surgical. Medically, during an acute attack, our main endeavours must be directed towards the allevia- tion of pain by means of morphia and local application of hot fomentations. The bowels should be emptied by enemata and a brisk saline purge administered. The dieting and general treatment must be carried out as in general peritonitis {q.v.). Surgically, during an acute attack there is usually little to be done. Should there be evidence of fluid bulging into the vagina, this must be at once evacuated through the fornix; but beyond this, surgical interference is seldom called for during the acute stage. After the acute attack has subsided, the ab- sorption of exudation and removal of adhesions must be assisted by hot vaginal douching and the application of ichthyol by means of vaginal plugs, 10 per cent in glycerine and 15 per cent in lanoline, for abdominal inunction. If on vaginal examination any tenseness is discovered in the pouch of Douglas or the lateral fornices, a vaginal incision should be made to allow of the escape of pus. Drainage by gauze will be necessary for some time. The progress of an inflammation is frequently limited or arrested by such treatment. Furthermore, great relief from pain is bestowed on the patient, and the formation of fistula prevented. If the patient has suffered from repeated attacks, and on examination a swelling of such size is dis- covered as to render it probable that the patient's condition arises from an occluded and distended Fallopian tube, operation should be urged. As to the procedure now to be employed, opinions diff'er. Abdominal section, followed by the breaking down of adhesions, and the ligature and removal of the implicated tube, is the older and more generally adopted measure. In 1886, Pean first advocated removal of the uterus and the diseased appendages by the vaginal route. This method has now many advocates. Others leave the uterus untouched and content them- selves with removal of the diseased tube or tubes per vaginam. Against this it is urged, that as the disease in most cases extends to the tubes, and through or by them to the pelvic peritoneum from the uterine mucosa, if the latter is not removed, the original source of mis- chief remains to continue the patient's distress. Cysts and Tumours of the Broad Ligament Malformation of the broad ligament is a rare condition generally associated with a similar abnormality aff'ecting the ovaries. Fallopian tubes, and uterus. The broad ligaments may also be entirely absent or rudimentary, or un- equally developed on both sides. Cysts of the broad ligament may arise from the hilum of the ovary, from which they spread between the layers of the broad ligament; or they may originate in the broad ligament inde- pendently of the ovary. These may be situated on the surface of the ligament, or may be deeply placed between its folds. The origin of the superficial cysts is unknown; those lying at a deeper plane spring in many cases from changes in the tubules of the parovarium. The former