419 PERITONEUM they normally are. He believed that they were bacilli coli communis. The burning question arises as to the part played by the ordinary intestinal bacteria, especially the bacillus coli communis, which stands as the prototype of the great colon group of bacilli in the causation of peritonitis. This bacillus was discovered in 1885, and at first it was described as a harmless inmate of the intestine, present throughout life, and entirely free from pathogenic properties. Then gradually evidence was amassed against it, in the shape of the facts cited above, and almost all cases of peritonitis arising from injury to the gut, with or without perforation, were laid to its account. It was believed, under certain conditions, to acquire great virulence, with the power of penetrating the wall of the gut, when its inner surface in any way became injured and its vitality lessened. This theory has until lately been universally held. The objection to it is that it is a little fanciful, and that the extreme readiness with which the bacillus coli communis grows may lead to the most deceptive conclusions as to the frequency of its presence and its etiological importance. So much is this the case that recent observers hesitate before they allow it anything like the importance which its constant presence in the ordinary culture tubes, often in pure culture, seems to indicate. The old theory, it must be admitted, is cut somewhat to fit the facts, to act as a cloak for ignorance; and moreover, recent work tends to show that, by special methods adopted to ex- clude air, anaerobic organisms of the pyogenic class can be cultivated, and probably are mainly responsible for many cases of peritonitis which have previously been ascribed to the bacillus coli communis, because by the ordinary methods of cultivation they have been killed off, while the colon bacilli have flourished. Dr. Veillon of Paris has recently made the most important contributions to this subject. His conclusions are principally based upon the results obtained from the study of twenty-two cases of appendicitis. He believes that, in causing gangrenous and foetid inflammations, a group of strictly ana- erobic bacteria play a rdle of prepondering, if not of exclusive importance, but that, as they require special methods of cultivation, they have hitherto escaped observation. Several years ago Veillon observed that in certain cases of suppuration there is a marked difference be- tween the microscopic appearance of freshly- stained specimens of the pus and the results of culture. In other conditions the results of immediate microscopic examination tally with those ob- tained from culture; that is to say, the same cocci are seen in the field of the microscope and in the colonies grown upon the agar-tubes after inoculation with the pus. In osteomyelitis they are found by both methods to be staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. The cases in which the results of culture diff"ered from the appearance of the slides were noticed to be those in which the inflammation was most intense, and the process foetid or gangrenous in nature. In the appendix many of them belonged to Hawkins' class of " infective appendicitis." In some of these cases, while the field in the fresh specimen was seen to be swarming with micro-organisms, hardly any growth occurred in the inoculated tubes; the colonies which developed in them were very few in nvimber, and they only represented a small proportion of the forms seen in the freshly- prepared slides. The staphylococcus or strepto- coccus, with members of the colon group, the bacillus coli communis or the proteus vulgaris, developed in these cases, while other germs which had previously been seen on the slide did not grow upon the tube. Why, in these cases, was it that only a small proportion of the germs could be grown 1 Before Veillon brought forward his hypothesis that the majority of these bacteria failed to grow because they were anaerobes, they were believed to be dead or at least dying before inoculation. This explanation was unsatisfactory, because it was unlikely that specially virulent forms of inflammation should be caused by dead or dying bacteria. Veillon's hypothesis at last aff'orded a rational explanation of facts. He taught that, far from being moribund, the organisms in these cases were intensely active and viru- lent, and that if they were supplied with an environment in which they could live, it was possible to cultivate them, but that they could not grow in the ordinary culture media exposed to the air any more than germs like the bacillus tetani can. Veillon has cultivated, isolated, and described several different classes of these bacteria, which appear from his results to play a most im- portant part in the etiology of appendicitis and of peritonitis. In his monograph upon the sub- ject he speaks of the principal ones, under the names of B. fragilis, B. ramosus, B. fusiformis. In 21 of his 22 cases Veillon demonstrated the presence of anaerobic germs by means of special methods of cultivation. In 2 cases they were the only organisms present, while in 19 cases they were associated with a small number of streptococci and bacillus coli communis. He found it necessary to pay the greatest attention to the details of the technique, in order to provide the organisms with the requisite conditions. The culture medium had to be solid and transparent, and the exclusion of air rigid. The procedure which he followed has been fully described by Dr. Rist (Paris), who has also