PALATE 228 patient take deep inspiration with the mouth open, while the tongue is kept in the floor of the mouth. Nose breathing ought also to be practised. As regards speech, the subjects of cleft palate Fig. 11.—Davies CoUey's operation, flap D, E, dissected up, turned over, and united to the opposite side with raw surface downward. are apt to speak too quickly and to run their words together. This habit must be corrected. They must also be taught to use the muscles of the tongue and palate for the purpose of distinct articulation. Usually there is especial difficulty in pronouncing words containing certain letters, in order to ascertain which, the whole alphabet Fig. 12.—Davies CoIIey's operation ; outline of flaps mai'lied out. ought to be repeated and the letters which are difficult to pronounce noted. It will generally be found that b, d, g, k, f, s, t, z are pronounced indistinctly. A selection of words containing these letters is made for the purpose of in- struction. The instruction is carried out by a voice trainer, by the mother, or a careful and in- telligent nurse in the following manner :—There ought to be nothing to disturb the attention of the child while it is having its lesson. The child should sit facing the instructor, who pro- nounces the words slowly and in an exaggerated manner with the mouth open and the lips separated. The child then takes a deep inspira- tion and copies the movements of the instructor's tongue and lips and the sound produced. The words are to be pronounced syllable by syllable. At first the lesson is to be of short duration, care being taken not to tire the child ; the periods of instruction are then gradually lengthened. A useful plan is to mark words difficult of pronunciation in an ordinary spelling-book—a pictorial one in the case of young children—and make the child practise the slow and deliberate pronunciation of such words. Other Operations for Cleft Palate.—Space does not permit of a description of Fergusson's Fig. 13.—Davies Colley's operation, flap A, B, C glided access and united to under raw surface of Z), E. and other methods. The method devised by the late Mr Davies CoUey requires notice. The advantages claimed for the method are that it can be performed at an earlier age. There is less haemorrhage, no loss of tissue, and very little tension. The disadvantages are that the hard palate alone is united, and a foramen is left at the anterior part of the cleft. The author strongly recommended his opera- tion in infants, in patients whom the ordinary operation had failed, when the separation of the sides of the cleft is too great to be bridged over in the ordinary way. The soft palate may be closed at the same time or at a subsequent period. 1. A triangular flap consisting of all the soft parts is cut from the side of the hard palate which is the wider, or if the septum be attached to one of the palatal processes the flap is taken