478 PHOSPHORIC ACID Phosphoric Acid. See Phosphorus. PhOSphorism.—Chronic poisoning with phosphorus. See Trades, Dangerous {Phos- phorus-Poisoning) . Phosphorous Acid, ^eePhosphorus. PhOSphoruria.—An abnormal state of the urine, which is phosphorescent when passed from the bladder; occasionally it is used in the same sense as phosjihaturia. Phosphorus and Phosphoric Acid. See also Diet {Mineral Constituents of Food); Glycero-Phosphates ; Heart, Myocar- dium AND Endocardium {General Pathology, Morbid Processes, Fatty Degeneration); Hypo- phosphites ; Jaundice {Jaundice of Phospho^-us Poisoning); Liver, Diseases of {Acute Yellow Atrophy); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases op the Jaw {Inflammatory Disease, Necrosis) ; Nephritis {Etiology); Ovaries, Diseases of {Hmmorrhage in Phosphorus Poisoniruj); Phy- siology, Excretion {Urine, Phosphorus-contain- ing Bodies) ; Purpura {Symptomatic, Toxic Purpura); Toxicology {Non-metallic Elements, Phosphorus); Trades, Dangerous {Phosphorous and Lucifer Match-Making). Phosphorus.—Symbol, P ; atomic weight, 30-8. A non-metallic element usually obtained from bones. It is a wax-like solid with a peculiar and characteristic odour. When exposed to the air it ignites, and must therefore be kept under water in tightly stoppered bottles. It is lumin- ous in the dark if it has been previously exposed to the action of light. Its dose is 2V grain in pill or solution. It is insoluble in water, sparingly soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloro- form, and very soluble in oils. Preparations— 1. Oleum Phosphoratum, 1 per cent in almond oil; very disagreeable. Dose—1-5 m. 2. Pilula Phosphori, 2 per cent. Dose—1-2 grs. The Tinctura Phosphori Composita and the Elixir Phosphori (Brit. Pharm. Conference) are con- venient forms for administration. Phosphorus has to a large extent dropped out of use as a therapeutic agent. Owing to its stimulant effect on the growth of bone, it has been employed in osteomalacia and in rickets, but without any definitely beneficial effect. It has also been recommended for nervous exhaus- tion and debility, and for various diseases of the nervous system. In chronic skin diseases, in leucocythtemia, and in neuralgia it has been supposed to act in a manner analogous to that of its chemical ally, arsenic. Phosphoric Acid.—Is official as Acidum Phos- phoricum Concentratum and Acidum Phosphori- cum Dilutum, the latter being given in doses of 5-20 m. It possesses the actions common to all the dilute acids, and is employed largely as a tonic and a gastric stimulant. It does not resemble phosphorus in its action, and has no special advantage over the other acids in the treatment of debility and exhaustion of nervous origin. P h OS p h U rets. See Phosphides. PhOSSy Jaw.—Phosphorus necrosis of the jaw. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Inflammatory Disease, Necrosis); Phosphorus. Photo-.—In compound words photo- (Gr. ^tos, light) means relating to light; e.g. photo- bacterium (a phosphorescent bacterium), pho- togen (a light-producing organ, or, simply, paraffin), photohcemotachometer (a hsemotacho- meter in which the changes in the level of the blood-column are noted by photography), photo- micrograph (a photograph of a microscopic object), etc. PhotOg'ene.—In physiology, the term photogene is used for a visual impression, an after-image. PhotOg'eniC. — Light-producing, as in the case of certain bacteria. See Micro-Organ- ISMS {Bacteria). Photomania. — in insanity, the term photomania indicates the inability of the patient to bear the influence of light without an increase in the violence of the symptoms from which he is suffering. Photometer. — An instrument for measuring the intensity of light. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Night-Blindness, Fd7'ster's Photo7neter). Photophobia.—Intolerance of the eye to light, as in conjunctivitis, etc. See Brain, Surgery of {Intracranial Inflammation, Symp- toms of Acute Leptomeningitis); Eye, Clinical Examination of {Ocular Conjunctiva, Photo- phobia) ; Measles {Course, Symptoms); Menin- gitis, Epidemic Cerebro - spinal {Symptoms, Special Senses). Photopsia.—A subjective sensation of light. PhototaxiS. — The spontaneous move- ments of cells under the influence of light. See Physiology, Cell {Pr-otoplasm, Phototaxis). Phototherapy.—The treatment of dis- ease by light, e.g. of skin diseases by Finsen's method. See Skin, Tuberculosis of {Lupus, Treatment); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment OF [Phototherapy). Phrenaig'i^'- — Melancholia (Gr. <l>priv, the mind), or neuralgia of the diaphragm (Gr. (fip-Qv, the midriff). Phrenic Nerve. /See Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of {Symptoms, Contraction of Dia-