416 PERITONEUM the muscles, the intense sensibility of the skin, which shrinks from the slightest pressure, and the shallow breathing, due to reflex affection of the intercostals, all serve a useful purpose in helping to keep the inflamed part at rest and free from further injviry. There has been some discussion as to whether the healthy peritoneum is or is not sensitive. Probably it is not. Opening the bowel in the second stage of colotomy is scarcely felt by the patient, and in cases in which opportunity has arisen of handling the peritoneum without an ansesthetic it has not apparently caused pain. A clean cut in it is painless, while the slightest degree of inflammation caiises acute suffering. The outer surface of the peritoneum consists of a network of elastic fibres mingled with lym- phatic and vascular capillaries and nerves. The elastic fibres are important, as they endow it with distensibility, so making it a suitable cover- ing for organs like the stomach and uterus, which vary in size from time to time. Its structure must be studied from fresh preparations treated with a weak solution of silver nitrate. Its inner surface is composed of flat pavement endothelial cells resting upon a basement mem- brane, and broken at intervals by apertures, stomata, and pseudo-stomata. The outlines of the cells show up as dark wavy lines in the silver nitrate specimens. They fit into one another by their sinuous margins. It is thought that the pseudo-stomata are formed by a heap- ing up of the intercellular cement at various points between the cells. They have no known physiological function. In his famous experi- ments upon the absorption of milk from the peritoneal cavity, Recklinghausen first described the stomata as the path through which absorp- tion occurred. He regarded them as organised channels between the peritoneal cavity and the lymphatics. They are openings at the junction of several endothelial cells, and are lined with small cells which differ from the normal cells of the part in being granular and cubical. Solid particles suspended in fluid and injected into the peritoneal cavity rapidly pass into the con- nective-tissue spaces and the lymphatics in the parietes, and until recently the stomata were universally regarded as the channels of exit through which they passed. Lately, however, Recklinghausen's conclusions have been disputed, and the existence of organised channels of com- munication between the peritoneal cavity and the sub-endothelial lymph spaces has been dis- puted. Until the matter is settled, stress must not be laid on stomata in discussing the mechan- ism of peritoneal absorption. The path taken by fluid in its passage from the connective-tissue spaces into the general circulation is also a point over which there has been much difference of opinion. The lym- phatics used to be regarded as the main channel of absorption, aided only to an insignificant extent by the blood capillaries. During the last few years some physiologists have attempted to minimise their importance, and to prove that the capillaries are the main path of absorption. The following points have been brought for- ward in favour of lymphatic absorption :— 1. Anatomically, as the spaces open directly into the lymphatics, the connection between them is closer than that between the spaces and the capillaries. 2. The pressure in the lymphatic system is lower than that in the capillaries, and fluid always tends to flow in the line of diminishing pressure. 3. Ligature of the thoracic duct hinders absorption from the peritoneal cavity. 4. Substances absorbed from the peritoneal cavity are said to appear in the lymph, collected by a cannula in the thoracic duct before they appear in the urine blood. Potassium ferro-cyanide was used in these experiments, and the urine and lymph collected from the bladder and thoracic duct respectively were examined at short intervals for the Prussian blue reaction. Unfortunately, experimenters have not reached the same conclusions. Meltzer always found that the reaction was given by the lymph before the urine, while Starling came to the opposite conclusion. The arguments which have been used to establish the superior importance of the capil- laries resolve themselves to a great extent into a negation of the points enumerated above. It is said that— 1. Stress must not be laid upon the seeming continuity of the lymphatics and the tissue spaces, nor upon supposed conditions of pressure in the lymph and vascular capillaries, because our knowledge is not sufficiently trustworthy. 2. During the rapid absorption of peritoneal effusions the flow of lymph from the thoracic duct is not increased. 3. Under certain circumstances it has been conclusively shown that absorption by the blood-vessels can occur. Defibrinated blood led repeatedly through the blood-vessels of an cedematous amputated limb becomes more watery. In the control experiment, which differed only in the tissues being healthy, the blood became less rather than more watery. The factors which produce absorption have also led to much discussion. It has been said to occur from filtration, in the line of diminish- ing pressure, by osmosis, and by vital cell action. Probably several factors act in combination, especially filtration and osmosis. It is known that absorption of fluids from the peritoneum varies inversely with the osmotic pressure of