NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 15 muscles of the elbow and the upper arm muscles are rarely involved. In rare cases the small muscles of the hands are affected. The paralysis of the legs and arms is bilateral and symmetrical. The intercostal and abdominal muscles are unaffected. The bladder and rectum are not paralysed. In a few rare cases there has been slight difficulty in micturition or a little drib- bling of urine ; but true retention or inconti- nence does not occur. Sensory.—When the neuritis is fully developed the early subjective sensory symptoms, already mentioned, persist. There are severe pains in the affected limbs, of a gnawing or tearing character, and these are increased by passive or active movements, or by touching the limbs. Superficially situated nerve-trunks may be tender, and are occasionally thickened. A prominent symptom in most cases is the intense pain caused by squeezing the muscles, especially those of the calf (muscular hyper- algesia) : it is best marked in the legs, but the arms often suffer also. In rare cases this symptom is slight. The patient also suffers from numbness and tingling in the legs and arms. Tactile sensation in the limbs is diminished and finally lost in severe cases, but complete anaesthesia in large areas is rare. The impaired sensation when present is most marked at the periphery of the limb, and gradually gives place to normal sensation towards the proximal part. When sensibility to tactile impression is diminished, often there is hypersesthesia for pain. Sensory symptoms are occasionally very slight, whilst the motor are well marked (motor form of the disease). Sometimes diminished sense of the position of the toes is the only subjective sensory symptom (Oppenheim). Hypertemia, with sweating of the hands and feet, are common symptoms, and occasionally the skin becomes glossy. In a few cases ulcers have developed on the feet. Sometimes in severe cases there is a little oedema of the feet and, exceptionally, a little effusion into the joints. Girdle sensations do not occur. Bed-sores very rarely occur, and when present they are superficial. There is no spinal curvature or pain. The pupils are usually normal, and react well to light and accommodation (but diminution or loss of the latter reflex has been recorded by Sir Lauder Brunton). Generally there is no paralysis of the facial, ocular, and tongue muscles. Very rarely double facial paresis has been recorded, and in a few excep- tional cases there has been paralysis of ocular muscles. Nystagmus is not infrequent. The optic discs are nearly always normal; but in very rare instances optic neuritis has been recorded, or partial optic atrophy with pallor of the temporal half of each disc. Central scotomata for colours have been also recorded in a few cases. Psychical sj'mptoms (polyneuritic psychosis of Korsakow) are often present, such as mental confusion, impairment of memory—especially for recent events,—and delusions about recent actions. Thus a patient who has been confined to bed for weeks or months, and who is so confused mentally as to be unable to tell the day, date, or month, or her address, will often give a detailed account of a walk she declares she has had the same or the previous day, stating the houses she has visited, the friends she had met, and the drinks she has had. In most cases of alcoholic neuritis, sensory and motor symptoms are combined (mixed form). In the early stages the sensory are the most prominent, and occasionally the motor symptoms never become marked (sensory form). Occa- sionally the motor symptoms are prominent and the sensory very slight (motor form). In a rare form ataxia of the legs and arms is the most prominent symptom (pseudo-tabes); but in such cases motor and sensory symptoms are present, though slight, and clearly indicate the nature of the disease. Course and Prognosis.—In most cases a few weeks elapse before the disease reaches its fullest development, then for a long period the affection is stationary, and finally gradual re- covery occurs. Usually the termination is in partial or complete recovery, but the peronei often remain weak long after the other muscles have recovered. Sometimes permanent con- traction of the calf muscles leads to deformity of the feet. In many cases, however, a fatal termination occurs. This may be due to paralysis of the diaphragm, tuberculosis of the lungs, cardiac failure, disease of the liver, or pneumonia. When the diaphragm is paralysed, the epi- gastrium and upper part of the abdomen sink in at each inspiration and the descent of the liver can no longer be felt. The abdomen protrudes and the liver descends on expiration. Expectoration and coughing become difficult; there is also difficulty in straining at stool and on micturition. A basal pneumonia often develops. [In normal quiet breathing, when the patient's attention is not directed to the respiratory move- ments, at each inspiration the chest expands, and the abdomen is protruded just below the ribs and the viscera descend.] Alcoholic heart muscle failure may lead to oedema of the legs and other signs of cardiac disease (see article on " Heart, Diseases of "). Tuberculosis is a most serious complication. It is incurable, and is a very common cause of the fatal termination in peripheral neuritis. It is often latent for a long pei'iod at first, and the pathological lesions are usually much more extensive than is suspected from the clinical signs. The diagnosis of alcoholic neuritis in a marked