443 PHARMACOLOGY alkaloids—strychnine, brucine, and thebaine,— the convulsant action of these bodies was changed into a paralysing one. The methyl group apparently, when added to an alkaloid molecule, confers this paralysing property, for we find it in methyl-atropine, methyl-morphine, methyl-veratrine, and other alkaloids which are not convulsants. Now many natural alkaloids are derivatives of ammonia, which itself is a stimulant to the spinal cord and tends to paralyse motor nerve endings. By substituting an alkyl gi'oup—e.g. ethyl—for one or more of the hydrogen atoms of ammonia, the convulsant action is diminished and the paralysing action increased, just as in the case of methyl strych- nine. In fact, "practically all the ammonium bases, that is, organic bases in which the pentavalent nitrogen is connected by four valencies to carbon, exercise the same pharma- cologic action, regardless of other differences in their constitution and nature; the action in this case being the same as that of curara, a paralysis of motor nerves" {Meyer'). Meyer suggests that the strongly basic character of these bodies may be the factor determining this relationship. The great complexity of the question may be understood when it is remembered that however accurately we may know the composi- tion of a drug, minute changes in the living cell, which we have no means of gauging, may entirely alter its reaction towards a chemical compound. Again, alterations in the constitu- tion of a drug also alter its physical properties, and with this its power of permeating the living- cell. Moreover, the activity of drugs depends largely on the extent to which they dissociate into ions in solutions, while alterations in solubility may on the one hand enhance a toxic action, or, on the other, by facilitating elimination, diminish it. It may be said that the tendency is to lay considerable stress on the physical properties and changes which accompany chemical constitution and altera- tions thereof, in interpreting physiological action. The Theory of Ions. — It is necessary to mention this, because it is now held that not the molecule of a salt in solution as a whole, but the ions into which it is dissociated, produce its effect. Certain salts, acids, and bases when dissolved in water form electrolytes and are split up into positive ions and negative ions. Thus the electrically neutral NaCl molecule is dissociated into Na ions (Rations) positively charged with electricity, and CI ions (Anions) negatively charged with electricity. Substances like sugar and urea, which do not ionise in solution, do not conduct electricity. The ions in solution exert the same osmotic pressure as molecules, and when they are comparatively inactive in other respects pharmacological results depending solely on osmosis may occur. When the action of the ions is potent, how- ever, the effects of osmosis may be neglected. Hydroxides of the alkalis act as corrosives by reason of the OH ion, the K or Na ion being inert, but alcohol is not corrosive because the OH is not dissociable into an ion. Again, cacodylic acid is not poisonous because it is not dissoci- able, and therefore none of the effects of the As ion are produced. The question of ionisation will be again referred to under Salt Action. Various classifications of drugs have been proposed; we are not yet in a position to construct a truly scientific one. In the present article the classification followed is that of Schmiedeberg and Cushny, and is based on the principle of general similarity of pharmacological action, irrespective, for the most part, of sovirce and chemical constitution. I. Inorganic Substances In the case of Salts, which form so important a part of the inorganic substances used in medicine, we have to distinguish between the action of the base and that of the acid. Thus we cannot group all the salts of potassium in one series, for in some—e.g. potassium chloride —the potassium is the active agent, while in others, such as the bromide, the negative ion is the determining factor. Many of the inorganic drugs are active poisons, and their pharmacological effects are to a large extent described in the article on " Toxicology," to which the reader is referred. We shall first deal with the action of certain salts. (1) Salt action in general differs from most of those to be described later, in being the result, not of any chemical or physiological reaction between certain cell groups and a par- ticular drug (such as may be supposed to take place between atropine and the terminations of secretory nerves), but of physical changes produced by the salt in the body fluids, and comparable to those which in the laboratory are comprehended under the term osmosis. This general statement, however, needs some qualification. In dilute solutions, such as exist in the tissues, salts do not remain as such, but are to a large extent dissociated into ions. Thus sodium chloride is dissociated into a positive Na ion (Ration), and a negative CI ion (Anion). This dissociation is important, both from the physical and pharmacological point of view, because in the first place the osmotic pressure of a fluid depends on the number of ions, not molecules, it contains, and in the second place the pharmacological action of the drug is determined by the ions, not the mole- cule as a whole. From this it follows that the pharmacological effect of a drug depends on the more potent ion : thus in the case of potassium cyanide the cyanogen ion is so highly toxic that the potassium ion may be disregarded, while in