239 PALLOR Post - nasal Adenoid Growths {Symptoms); Scurvy, Infantile {Clinical Features). Pa,llTia.r.—Belonging to the flexor aspect of the hand, e.g. the palmar arch, fascia, etc. See Arteries, Ligature of {Superficial Palmar Arch); Fascia {D^ipuytren^s Contraction); Hand {Compound Palmar Ganglion). PcLlnriciriS. — Palmar; e.g. the palmaris longus muscle, palmaris brevis, etc. PalmitBC Acid.—A fatty acid, CjgHgj O.OH, obtained from palm-oil, and existing as glyceryl palmitate in many animal and vegetable fats. Pa.lmitine. — Palm-oil fat or glyceryl tripalmitate, CgjHggOg or C.;fl^{C^QH^-fi^)^. See Physiology, Tissues {Connective Tissues, Fat Cells). Palpation.—A method of clinical ex- amination in which the hands of the examiner are laid upon a part of the body and moved in such a way as to determine the condition of the underlying structures. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Physical Examination, Abdomen, Palpation); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Abdominal Examination); Labour, Precipitate AND Prolonged {Pelvimetry); Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths {Symptomatology, Palpation of Naso-Pharynx). Palpebral.—Belonging to the eyelids, e.g. the palpebral fissure, palpebral conjunctiva, etc. See Eyelids, Affections of. Paipebration.—Nictitation or winking. Palpebrine. — A proprietary prepara- tion used for external application in diseases of the eye. Palpitation is the too forcible or too frequent beating of the heart, whereby its action becomes perceptible to the individual. It is due to an increased excitability of the heart muscle, and may be induced by a variety of different causes. It is an unimportant symptom in the majority of cases of organic cardiac disease (see vol. iv. p. 107), and is usually dependent on a so-called functional dis- order of the heart. The subjective symptoms associated with it vary in degree and kind according to the individuality of the patient. Some subjects merely experience a slight dis- comfort from the sensation caused by the un- natural impact of the heart; in others the distress is considerable. Objectively the apex beat is, as a rule, too diffuse and sharp in character, with irregularity in action. In severe cases, the whole prsecordia may be the seat of impact, more especially in those cases where the symptom is one of organic cardiac disease. The degree of subjective disturbance bears no constant ratio to the objective change. The causes are predisposing and exciting. Of the former, a naturally nervous constitution is by far the most important. The exciting cause is usually to be found in a temporary derange- ment of one or other viscus, and more especially those rich in nervous connections with the central nervous systems via the sympathetic nervous system. Gastric and intestinal derangements probably account for more than nine-tenths of the cases. Constipation and a faulty dietary are responsible for these. Some degrees of hepatic derange- ment are usually associated with and dependent on this gastro-intestinal disturbance. The most striking cases that come under observation are probably those which have been at an earlier date the subject of dilatation of the heart, and which have made a very slow, and it may be an incomplete, recovery. If this occurs in a nervous subject, we have the ideal ground for the frequent development of those subjective sensations that are popularly called palpitation, and a slight derangement of the digestion may readily induce the symptoms. With regard to treatment, the first essential is to relieve the patient's mind as to the relatively unimportant nature of his ailment. In the second place, we have to look for a source of reflex irritation in the gastro-intestinal canal and its adnexa and other organs, and counteract it. A blue pill, followed by a morning saline and a simple diet, constitutes the best line of treatment. Consti- tutional remedies are sometimes called for, and then a short rest from active physical or mental work, with gentle exercise in the fresh air and a general tonic, will be found most useful. Local treatment—the application of a Bella- donna plaster, or in chronic cases a cantharidis blister—is serviceable in some cases, and in this class of cases the administration of bromides and other cardiac sedatives will conduce to a more rapid recovery. The practitioner must judge for himself the state of the cardiac muscle. A careful investigation of the case may suggest the advisability of administering small doses of a direct cardiac tonic, e.g. digi- talis, the use of which may be attended with marked benefit. But great care is called for in the selection of cases suitable for this line of treatment. See also Alcoholism {Intoxication, Visceral Effects); Beriberi {Symptoms); Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Symptomatology) ; Stomach and Duodenum {General Symptomato- logy) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exopihthalmic Goitre, Circulatory System). Palsy. See Paralysis. Paludism.—Malarial fever (Lat. palus, a marsh). See Malaria {Synonyms).