94 NOSE—POSTNASAL ADENOID GROWTHS easily, in spite of the dangers resulting from perpetual irritation of their larynx and bronchial -and Eustachian tubes, than to deprive the tissues of sufficient nutriment. The most striking consequence of this breath- ing through a narrowed nose is the malformation •of the thoracic walls so commonly observed in these patients. Formerly they were all attri- buted to rickets, although enlarged tonsils were assumed, before the discovery of adenoids, to have some part in the faulty expansion of the chest-walls. Pigeon-breast is always acquired, and is essentially mechanical. If we admit that nasal respiration is still practised in spite of grave stenosis of the nose-passages, it follows inevitably that the difference between the intra- thoracic atmospheric pressure during inspiration and the external pressure must be greater than obtains where the access to the thorax is not obstructed, and that consequently the external atmospheric pressure weighing upon the chest- walls will lead to their collapse in greater or less degree. This is observed in the most characteristic manner at the anterior aspect of the lower ribs and costal cartilages, which present an appearance of flattening or actual concaving of the surface. Nor do I think that it is ever observed in cases where there is no nasal obstruction, although it is doubtless more conspicuous where there is rickets. On the other hand, we sometimes see in cases of adenoids a depression of the sternum in various degrees ; but I am convinced that this is seen sometimes where it cannot be supposed that the stenosis is sufficient to account for it. But an appreciation of the lateral collapse of the walls, I maintain, is of the utmost importance as an objective indication of the degree to which the patient has actually suffered from the adenoids; for it is evidence of the degree of imperfection in the supply of air. And, given the fact of the existence of adenoids, I consider an exami- nation of the thorax of greater moment in determining the need for operation than even a digital palpation of the postnasal space, seeing that even when the amount of adenoids is enormous some patients may habitually adopt mouth-breathing, and thus escape the penalty of defective air-supply. In such cases operation may not be so imperative from the point of view of general health, although the local harm may be correspondingly more serious. Snoring is another symptom upon which the laity chiefly rely for diagnosis, and not in- frequently it is argued that when tliis indica- tion is absent there can be no adenoid growths. But the symptom is no more to be relied upon than buccal respiration, although I am prepared to affirm that snoring is never pronounced in children without there being nasal stenosis of one form or other to account for it. The remaining symptom of common occur- rence in adenoids is the great tendency to contract colds, whether in the nose, throat, bronchial tubes, or, according to Dr. Eustace Smith, in the stomach. And as the irritation of the bronchial tubes sometimes results from nasal obstruction, whether as a direct conse- quence of the buccal respiration, or whether in some more subtle manner with which we are not fully acquainted, we shall not be surprised to learn that asthma must be reckoned among the symptoms of adenoids, nor to learn that the trouble not infrequently disappears entirely after operation. Various other nervous symptoms are often attributable to nasal obstruction in children, the commonest among which is laryngismus stridulus. Dr. Eustace Smith ^ has recently assured us that the malady in infants is in- variably caused by adenoids; and although my experience of the general affections of child- hood is too limited to allow me to corroborate such distinguished opinion, I am yet able to affirm that I have never removed adenoids in an infant with the direct object of curing laryngismus without doing so; and that in the most unequivocal manner. Correspondingly general convulsions, if not epilepsy, are occa- sionally, though rarely, caused by adenoids and cured by operation. Chorea, nocturnal incontinence of urine, nightmare, sleep-walking, are also not seldom cured by the removal of nasal obstructions. Yet I think all such affec- tions must be considered as the consequence of the nasal obstruction rather than of adenoids in particular, for the results of operative treat- ment are quite as striking in many cases of nasal obstruction in adults, although perhaps the improvement in general health is not quite so rapidly observed. The German and American schools have made much of the symptom now commonly known as aprosexia (from d priv. and irpoa-exeiv, to attend (Guye)). By the term is signified a definite lack of the faculty of application to their studies in the little patients, although it does not in- dicate any actual lack of mental ability. I am not persuaded that this is in any way different from what we find in any child in whom the general health has undergone deterioration; but there can be no question that after opera- tion these children improve remarkably in the ease with which they learn, pari passit, indeed, with the improvement in general nutrition. The prognosis in these cases could hardly be more satisfactory, except perhaps for the patients who have attained adult life, and in whom the mischief wrought by the long continued ob- struction has become irremediable. Yet even in patients advanced to middle life, one is justified in holding out hope of definite im- provement, especially if the main complaint is ' "Adenoid Growths in Children," Lancet, May 25, 1895.