356 PARASITES the uterus, become mature, and the embryos are then hatched out and thereafter escape from the body of the adult female. The embryos at birth are 90-100 /x long and 6 /x broad. They bore through the intestinal wall, and thence reach the voluntary muscles. The embryos when seen as muscle trichiwx have attained a length of O'7-l mm., are encapsuled, and usually spirally coiled. The three most important hosts are the rat, pig, and man. The mouse, dog, cat, fox, and other animals are less frequently affected ; the horse, ox, sheep, guinea-pig, etc., may be in- fected artificially. The muscles of any animal containing encapsuled trichinae are termed tri- chinous. Man acquires Trichina spiralis by the ingestion of trichinous pork, and similarly the pig, rat, or dog acquires the parasite by eating the trichinous flesh of other animals. Trichiniasis, or trichinosis, is a disease which occurs in all countries. The two most important factors in causing the disease in man are : firstly, the prevalence of the disease in the lower animals, more particularly in the pig; and, secondly, and of greater importance, is the partiality for raw ham or sausage or for underdone pork mani- fested by persons of any nationality. In view of this latter factor the disease is, as might be expected, much more frequent in Germany, and more especially in Northern Germany, than else- where in Europe ; and from almost whatever part of the world statistics are taken, it is found that a relatively large number of infected persons have been Germans. Friedberger and Frohner (1896) calculate that in Germany of 10,000 swine 1 is infected with trichinae ; or, again, that at the abattoirs in Prussia there were 10,000 affected swine during 1876-82, and 3000 during 1890-93. In some parts of Germany, too, infection is prob- ably conveyed to man by dog's flesh. Pirl (1899), for example, records that in Dessau there are on an average over 200 dogs slaughtered for food every year, and that of 405 two were markedly infected. The disease is seldom seen in this country, nor is it common in North America. Osier (1898), for instance, says that up to 1893 there had been only 709 cases in the United States, with, however, records of " 40 or 50 " further cases up to February 1898. Yet the disease in the pig is exceedingly common in the United States, though American writers seldom admit the fact. At Hamburg in 1883, 0'69 per cent of American pork was found to be trichinous, whilst Neumann (1892) quotes Chattin, who at Havre found 14-65 per cent infected, and he considers that on an average about 3 per cent of pork exported from America contain trichinae. Trichinous flesh having been ingested, the capsule surrounding each embryo is digested in the stomach, and the embryo thus liberated. Two or four days later each embryo has de- veloped in the intestinal canal of the host into an adult male or female trichina, and now in- habits the upper part of the small intestine. After fertilisation of the ova of the female a fresh brood of embryos is produced, the libera- tion of these embryos from the adult female commencing seven to eight days after ingestion of the trichinous flesh. The birth of embryos, to the number of about 1000 to 1500, continues for about five or six weeks, after which time the adult trichinae usually die and are expelled from the host. The embryos, which are 90-100 /a long, penetrate the intestinal wall of the host and wander thence, probably into the lymphatic vessels, and are then carried by the thoracic duct to the right side of the heart, and being- carried through the pulmonary capillaries are arrested in the capillaries of the voluntary muscles. According to Askanazy (1894) and Cerfontaine (1893), however, the female trichinae wander into the mucosa and submucosa, and then deposit their embryos in the lymphatic spaces. In the muscles the embryos attain the length of about 1 mm. Eight to ten days are required before this migration is accomplished, and infection of the muscles is therefore not complete until fifteen or sixteen days after the ingestion of trichinous flesh. The developmental cycle is thus completed. Ingestion of trichinous fiesh is essential if an animal is to be infected with Trichina spiralis, for unless the embryos pass through an intermediate or larval stage in the muscles they do not attain maturity in the intestinal canal. Any voluntary muscle may be affected, but the trichinae are always most numerous towards the junction of a muscle and its tendon. The muscles most abundantly infected are, in order of frequency, the diaphragm, intercostals, cervi- cal, laryngeal and ocular muscles, biceps and triceps. The total number of trichinae present in the muscles in any given case is probably very great, 30-100 millions on an approximate calculation. The embryo, when it has ceased its migration, becomes coiled up in a wide spiral within the sarcolemma. The presence of the parasites causes acute interstitial myositis, and a capsule is thereby formed around the trichinae. This capsule, formed of connective tissue, sarcolemma, and of a layer derived from the parasite, is oval or lemon-shaped, its long axis is parallel to that of the muscle fibres, and it measures about 0-4 mm. long, by 0-2 mm. in diameter. Within a capsule there is usually one embryo, sometimes two or more. The muscle fibres undergo granular degeneration and fragmentation, and show nuclear proliferation. Eosinophile leuco- cytes are found in relative abundance in the affected areas. There is also a great increase of eosinophile leucocytes in the peripheral blood, a point of very considerable diagnostic im- portance. T. R. Brown (1898) records a case where they formed 68-2 per cent of the total