PARALYSIS, INSANITY ASSOCIATED WITH 330 tion of the mental processes. Later on is added slurring and difficulty of speech, spasms, con- tractures, incontinence, difficulty in swallowing, slight tremor, and in some cases convulsions. The mental weakness becomes more and more marked, and death takes place after the lapse of a series of years. The post-mortem indica- tions usually found are endarteritis. Atrophy of nerve fibres, especially in the fore-brain, slight changes in the pyramidal cells, and some increase of the neuroglia elements are also present. Binswanger has described a form of diffuse sclerosis which he calls arterio-sclerotic brain degeneration {Arterio-sklerotische Hirnentartung). This disease is, however, not confined to the brain vessels, but simultaneously affects those of other organs, such as the kidney. The vessel walls are partly atrophied, partly thickened, and the lumen is widened. Sometimes aneurysmal formations and capillary ruptures are met with. The neuroglia is increased, especially in foci around the affected vessels, and degenerative processes are found in the nerve cells and fibres of the cortex. The disease, which appears about forty or fifty years of age, is slow in develop- ment, and the clinical mental symptoms are various. They include headache, giddiness, ex- citement, and thought disturbance, and during the frequent remissions in these symptoms there is observable a blunting of the intelligence and stupidity which ends in dementia. The physical signs are paretic speech disturbance, aphasic forms, and frequently permanent paralysis of various parts of the body. Another form of diffuse sclerosis of the brain has been named by Binswanger chronic progressive subcortical en- cephalitis. This is a disease coming on about the fiftieth or sixtieth year, and is characterised by local paralyses and progressive dementia. The pathological changes observed are atrophy of the medullary subcortical fibi-es, widening of the brain cavities, especially the posterior ones, and atheroma of the blood-vessels. In all forms of mental disturbance casually related to cere- bral sclerosis the prognosis is grave. Gerehral Hcemorrhage. — In many instances where the onset of the apoplectic condition is sudden, consciousness is lost, and a state of coma prevails. It sometimes happens that the patients on awaking from the coma become delirious. The delirium is characterised by noise, shouting, and struggling. Other patients manifest mental confusion, loss of personal identity, loss of the sense of locality, and delu- sions. Where there is no extensive cerebral lesion or atheroma of the arteries, most of the cases recover sooner or later—generally sooner from the foregoing symptoms, but in others a certain amount of mental weakness remains permanently. As a rule, this mental enfeeble- ment is slight and affects only memory for dates and past events, or it produces in addition some facility of will power, and perhaps an increased emotionalism. In others, however, where there is extensive subsequent or co-existing lesion, such as laceration of the brain substance, it may either quickly or gradually terminate in a state of complete dementia. In htemorrhagic cerebi-al affections, the mental symptoms, like the bodily, depend largely upon the site of the lesion, its extent, upon its character, i.e. its complications, and upon the rapidity of absorption of the clot. If the haemorrhage be followed by local softening, the results are more grave. The age and state of health of the patient, and above all the state of his arteries, exercise great influence upon the subsequent course of the disease, and consequently upon the character of the mental symptoms. When there is marked aphasia the gravity of the mental symptoms is apt to be exaggerated, especially in amnesic and para- phasic conditions, where the patients talk non- sense while retaining an otherwise valid intelli- gence. But in senile cases with degenerated arteries all forms of mental disturbance, mania, melancholia, and delusions with hallucinations may occur. Some of the cases manifest recur- rent or alternating forms of insanity, and may pass through numerous phases of mental aberra- tion. The dominating mental state of such patients is, however, dementia with a noisy emotionalism. They are often very troublesome and difficult to manage, and are, as a rule, sleepless, especially during the acuter phases of the malady. Fortunately many of them settle down into a quiet, even dementia, without excitement or much depi'ession. The diagnosis and prognosis depend entirely upon the underlying cerebral lesion, its seat, extent, and character. In otherwise healthy persons the acuter symptoms which sometimes manifest themselves in the early stages may completely pass off, leaving, or not, a slight degree of mental weakness or instability. Softelling of the Brain.—The differential dia- gnosis between cerebral embolism and cerebral haemorrhage is often a matter of great difficulty. Owing to the fact that the most common seat of both lesions is the middle cerebral artery and its branches, the symptoms may be at first very similar. Initial loss of consciousness in embolism j is less frequent than in haemorrhage. In embol- ism due to syphilitic disease, for example, where the plugging of an atheromatous artery is a slow process, consciousness is more frequently pre- served than lost. Convulsions very frequently accompany the onset in embolism. Delirium may take the place of loss of consciousness, and in atheromatous softening a brief initial loss of consciousness is often succeeded by quiet delirium lasting for several days or even weeks (Gowers). Owing to the fact that the cortex supplied by the middle cerebral is frequently implicated, aphasia is much more common in softening than in haemorrhage. Mental symptoms are