PAKALYSIS 317 When the disease manifests itself by spinal symptoms only, life is, as a rule, preserved much longer than when cerebral and bulbar symptoms appear early ; indeed, the occurrence of bulbar symptoms may be taken to indicate that the duration of life will be short. Cases that show a tendency to remission of symptoms live longer than those in which the disease appears to be steadily progressive; but after the manifestations of disseminated sclerosis become so pronounced that the typical clinical picture is seen, life is not, as a rule, prolonged beyond two or three years, though there are many notable exceptions to this rule. The degree of care that can be bestowed on the patient naturally influences prognosis, especially in the cases in which there is a tendency to trophic disturbance in the skin, retention of urine requiring the use of the catheter, or loss of control over the sphincters. There is great risk of cystitis and pyonephrosis, when there is severe affection of the sphincter of the bladder, so that when present this is a bad element in prognosis. Treatment.—No drug has any power of arrest- ing or retarding the progress of the disease, though silver, in the form of the nitrate or chloride, and arsenic, deserve a thorough trial in any case of the kind. The subcutaneous mode of administering these remedies has been recommended, and it is well to follow this plan in the case of the silver salts ; but there seems little advantage in administering the arsenic otherwise than by the stomach. Massage, hydro- pathic and electrical treatment, deserve careful trial, though the results are no more encourag- ing than those that attend the treatment of the disease by drugs. Massage and passive move- ments improve the nutrition of the muscles and lessen the tendency to permanent contracture; but it is necessary to employ these measures with caution, so as not to do harm by inducing undue fatigue. Skilled medical care and good nursing can do much that indirectly influences the course of the malady in a favourable manner, for there are many conditions that aggravate the disease and hasten its imfavourable progress. Most patients suffering from disseminated sclerosis bear cold badly, so that in addition to warm clothing residence in a warm climate during the winter is desirable when practicable. Rest is essential, and the nutrition of the patient must be maintained at as high a standard as possible by the administration of nutritious food, malt, cod-liver ail, and tonic medicines, while daily open-air carriage or wheel-chair exercise is no less important. Depressing emo- tions, mental or physical fatigue, injury, ex- posure to wet and cold, and excesses of all kinds must be studiously avoided, in that they exercise an unfavourable influence on the course of the disease. Female patients must especially be warned against pregnancy. Our knowledge of its etiology is not sufficiently precise to deter- mine what prophylactic measures, if any, are likely to prevent the disease. When there is reason to suspect that some slight and transitory affection of the nervous system is to be ascribed to commencing disseminated sclerosis, patients must be warned to keep up their nutrition and to avoid everything that is known to be prejudicial. A sufficiently close relationship appears to exist between the disease and the infective fevers to make it important that patients should be encouraged to rest and otherwise recuperate for some time after one of these illnesses, notably when there has been evidence of derangement of the nervous system during or following on the attack. Measvires for the prevention of intoxication by metallic poisons in the various trades are also important. Pseudo-Sclerosis.—A few cases have been recorded in which the symptoms during life resembled those of disseminated sclerosis, but on necropsy corresponding changes have not been found. Etiology.—Nothing definite is known as to the cause of the affection ; but the slight abnor- malities that have been detected post-mortem suggest that hereditary syphilis may have some influence in the production of the disease. It has also been supposed that alcohol and other poisons may have a similar influence; indeed, in one case, the illness commenced soon after an attack of enteric fever. The affection occurs in young people, and in one case it commenced as early as the age of twelve. Morbid Anatomy.—A firm, leathery consist- ence of the brain, especially in the occipital region, has been found in some of the cases ; but microscopical examination has not revealed any increase of interstitial tissue in the affected parts, and, moreover, the nerve fibres have been intact. There has been a very slight amount of degeneration in the crossed pyramidal tracts in the upper cervical region of the spinal cord, and in one case this could even be traced to the lumbar enlargement, while in another there was slight degeneration in the area of Gowers's tract, on both sides, in the cervical part of the cord. Pathology.—The morbid changes that have been discovered are not adequate to account for the clinical symptoms, and even these slight changes have not been present in all cases. The pathology of the affection is obscure, and, but for the possible influence of syphilis and other poisons, nothing is known of its mode of origin. A suggestion that the clinical pheno- mena are due to hysteria has been rejected by competent authorities. Symptoms.—The intellect may be weak; speech is usually somewhat scanning, and it may be nasal, or even imintelligible. The expression may be somewhat fixed, the movements of the eyes slow, and diplopia has been a symptom. Tremor may be seen in the tongue, and about