PASSIO OR PASSION 369 PaSSiO or Pa.SSion. — Intense mental emotion or action, e.g. the passio cadivia (epi- lepsy) and the passio hysterica (hysteria) ; or great suffering, e.g. the iliac passion (volvnlus). Pa.SSUg'g'. See Balneology {Switzerland, Alkaline Waters). Paste.—In pharmacy, an ointment-like substance to be applied locally ; e.g. Vienna paste (caustic potash and caustic lime and water), Canquoin's paste (zinc chloride, flour, and water), etc. Pasteurisation. — The rendering of milk innocuous by raising it to a temperature of 155° to 165° F. and keeping it at that heat for twenty or thirty minutes. See Infant- Feeding {Artificial Feeding, Milh). Pasteur's Treatment or Pas- teurism. *S'ee Rabies {Treatment, Curative). Pastille or PastillUS.—A small medi- cated lozenge having glyco-gelatin as a basis. See Pharynx, Chronic Pharyngitis {Treatment, Local). Patag^ium.—The web of skin or web- like expansion which passes from the upper limb to the neck or chest in some cases of defective development, or between other parts of the body (between the lower limbs in sym- podia) ; it may be due to amniotic pressure or adhesion in antenatal life. See Ballantyne's Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii., "The Embryo." Patch.—An irregular spot or area of the skin, or of a mucous membrane or other surface, marked off from the surrounding parts by a difference in colour, consistence, etc.; e.g. the mucous patches of syphilis, the Peyerian patches of the small intestine, etc. Patella. —The knee-cap or knee-pan, a small, flattened, sesamoid bone lying in front of the knee-joint. See Knee-Joint, Diseases of {Congenital Dislocation of Patella, Fracture of Patella, Dislocation of Patella, etc.); Syphilis {Tertiary, Inflammation of the Bursa Patellae). Patellar Reflex. See Tendon Jerks; Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology, Reflexes). Patent. — Open, not ^ obstructed (Lat. patere, to be open), e.g. a patent foramen ovale or ductus arteriosus, etc. »S'ee (Heart, Congeni- tal Malformations of. Pat he ma.—Suffering; disease of body or mind (Gr. Tra^os, suffering). Pathetic. — Causing pity or indicating sorrow; thus, in anatomy, the fourth cranial nerve is called patheticus, and it supplies the superior oblique muscle of the eye {M. patheti- VOL. VII cus), which, it is said, so turns the eyeV)all as to express suffering. Pathetism. See Hypnotism. PathO-.—In compound words patlio- (Gr. TrdOo';, suftering, disease) means relating to suffering, disease, morbid change, or the like ; e.g. jmthocratia (holding the passions under con- trol, or self-restraint), pathoctonus (killing the passions, self-control), pathophohia (fear of dis- ease, hypochondriasis), pathophoric (conveying disease), etc. PathOg'enesiS. — The development of disease ; it is distinguished from etiology (the causation of disease) by taking into account the exact way in which the morbid cause acts in producing the disease ; therefore bacteria which are believed to initiate and set up morbid pro- cesses are called pathogenic. Pathognomonic.—-Characteristic of a special malady, e.g. a symptom or sign so distinctive as to warrant the diagnosis of a definite disease to be made (Gr. -n-dOos, disease, yvmfJiwv, a judge). Pa.tholOg'y. — The branch of medicine which deals with the causes of disease and with the structural changes produced by disease; it is also concerned with morbid states which do not, so far as is known, produce actual changes in the tissues. See under various headings, such as Insanity, Pathology of ; Labour, Pathology of ; Pregnancy, Pathology of ; etc. (Almost all the long articles contain a patho- logical portion or reference.) Patient.—One suffering from a disease, or, more particularly, a person undergoing treatment for a disease, or an inmate of a hospital or asylum. Paul's Sigfn.—A physical sign found in cases of adherent pericardium, and consisting in a feeble apex beat with forcible impulse over the body of the heart. Pavilion.—A tent-shaped structure, e.g. the abdominal end of the Fallopian tube, and the auricle of the ear. Pavitation.—A state of trembling fear. Pavor Nocturnus. See Night Terrors. Pavy'S Disease. — Intermittent albu- minuria. Pawllk'S Folds.—The anterior columns of the vagina which mark off a triangular space {Pawlik's Triangle) which corresponds to the trigone of the bladder. Paxton'S Disease. — Tinea nodosa. See Skin, Parasites {Tinea Nodosa). 24