PARACENTESIS 263 it is less terrifying to the patient, and the tendency to syncope is reduced. Southey's apparatus consists of a very fine cannula, about two inches long, perforated laterally by minute openings, and surmounted by a small shield. Over this shield is passed one end of the rubber tube, the other end of which extends to the receiving basin under the patient's bed. It is then ready for use. The whole operation should be carried out with strict antiseptic precautions. After withdrawal of the needle the cannula is fixed in position by strapping, and may be kept in for twelve or twenty-four hours. The use of an abdominal bandage will be found helpful, and it is better to gradually tighten the binder, as the fluid escapes. A many-tailed bandage may be used. After with- drawal of the cannula a collodion dressing is applied. Speaking generally, Southey's tubes are distinctly preferable to the aspirator for cases of ascites. An important preliminary measure is to see that the bladder is empty. Pa,ra.Centra.l.—Situated at the side of a central part, e.g. the paracentral lobule of the brain which lies alongside the central fissure. Paracephal us.—The teratological type in which the head is deformed; the term is applied specially to that form of placental parasite or omphalo-angiopagous twin in which the head is present in a deformed state although the heart may be absent, and the limbs greatly malformed or wanting. Parachlorphenol. — A substitution product of phenol having the formula CgH^ClOH, and acting as an antiseptic. Paracholia.—Irregularity in the bile- secretion. Parachordal.—Situated at the side of the notochord, e.g. the parachordal cartilages. Parachroma.—A change in the colour of the skin, e.g. in chlorosis {parachroma chlorosis). Parachromatoblepsiaor Para- Chromatopsia.—Colour bUndness. See Colour Vision. ParachromatOSiS.—A skin disease or morbid state due to pigmentary changes in the skin, e.g. as the result of tattooing, in Addison's disease, in argyria, etc. Paracolon Bacillus. — A bacillus found in the blood in a disease resembling typhoid fever. P£iraCOlpitiS. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding and at the sides of the vagina. Paracope.—The delirium of fever. ParaCOtO.—False coto bark, a remedy for diarrhoea, which contains paracotoin, Paracousia or Paracusis.—Dis- ordered hearing; auditory illusions. See Eak, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease {Hypertrophic Catarrh, Symptoms and Signs). Paracusis WiliSSii.-—The symptom characterised by hearing better in a noise. Paracystitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue in the neighbourhood of the bladder. Paradenitis. — Inflammation around a lymphatic gland. Paradidymis.—Tubular relics of the Wolffian body in the male; the organ of Girald^.s. Paradoxical.—Exhibiting a contradic- tion with known laws, or hard to reconcile with these ; deviating from the normal and difficult of explanation, e.g. the paradoxical pulse or pupil. Paraduodenal Fossa.—A pouch of peritoneiun in the neighbourhood of the ascend- ing part of the third poi'tion of the duodenum. Parsesthesia.—Perverted or abnormal sensation, e.g. "pins and needles," numbness, tingling, formication, etc. See Alcoholic In- sanity {Clinical Types); Alcoholism {Sensory Va7-iations); Larynx, Neuroses of {Sensory Neuroses); Nose, Nasal Neuroses (Neuroses of Olfaction); Pharynx, Examination of {Neuroses of Sensation, Parwsthesia) ; Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Sensory, Subjective). Paraffin. See also Dermatitis Trau- matica et Venenata {Paraffin Rash); Toxi- cology {Petroleum and Paraffin Oil).—The paraffins may be arranged according to their consistency as follows—hard, soft (vaseline and similar bodies), vaseline oils, liquid paraffin, and petroleum spirit. Paraffinum Durum, or paraffin wax, is a colourless semi-transparent solid, in- soluble in water, slightly soluble in alcohol, and freely soluble in ether and chloroform. It is supplied with melting-points ranging between 100° and 145° F. For subcutaneous injection a melting-point of 110° to 115° F. is recom- mended. The paraffin is introduced in the fluid state after having been carefully sterilised, and is moulded in position as it cools and solidifies. It has been employed in this manner to improve the shape of the nose, to prevent prolapse of the rectum and of the uterus, to form a stump for an artificial eye, in the treatment of atrophic rhinitis, and even for the fashioning of an arti- ficial testicle. Repoi'ts as to the results obtained by this method are somewhat conflicting. Paraf- finum Molle, known as vaseline, is a white or