565 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAK MECHANISM (b) But it is also largely acquired by the indi- vidual, since the reception of each stimulus and the performance of a resulting action, however this be determined, tends to lay down a path which will again be followed. (2) Not only will the previous training of the brain thus act as the directive force in the response to stimuli, but the mitrition of the brain also plays an important part. The action of a brain when well nourished and freely supplied with pure blood is often very different to that of the same brain when badly nourished or imperfectly supplied with healthy blood. the past reactions, and thus the present response is determined. For appropriate reaction the whole mechanism must be normal—a very small injury to any part may not only entirely alter the reactions or conduct of the individual, but may also modify his mental condition. So far, cerebral action has been considered in a purely material manner as consisting of a series of reflex acts, higher and more complex than those in the spinal cord, in which the result of the stimulus varies in the same way, but to a much greater degree from its association with more complex past impressions. But cerebral action is generally ac- companied by changes in the conscious- ness of the individual, some of which are termed simple sensations, while others may be described as trains of thought. No sensation is, however, really simple, because so many arcs of the nervous system are constantly in action that the eff'ect of the action of any one arc upon our consciousness is necessarily influenced and modified by the activity of these other arcs. While this is true of the simpler sensations, it is doubly true of lines of thought. But essentially a train of thought is simply a train of modifications of the conscious- ness, each evoked by a preceding modi- fication or sensation. It is, in fact, impossible to conceive consciousness without sensation, or sensation without consciousness. Cerebral action frequently goes on without consciousness being implicated ; but so far as we know, consciousness without accompanying cerebral action is unknown, and there is evidence that it is only when the actions of the varioi;s parts of the cerebrum are co- ordinated that consciousness is possible. In cases of Jacksonian epilepsy, as a result of a small centre of irritation on Fig. 106.—Diagram to illustrate different ^Jossi'We channels of cerebral response the surface of the brain, a violently ^Llc^tir^Klgt?^^^^^^^^ excessive action of the cerebral neurons REceiviNO. DISCHAR.CINO, Since the education of the brain really consists in developing proper responses to various stimuli, the importance of the brain being in a healthy and well-nourished condition during the training is manifest. The power of diffey-entiating various stimuli and their reactions is correlated with the develop- ment of the cerebrum and becomes more perfect as the animal scale is ascended. The complexity of the cerebral action in the higher animals has its basis in the greater number of distinct im- pressions which have been received and reacted to. Each separate stimulus leaves its mark upon the brain, or, as we may say, is stored in the brain, and each subsequent similar stimulus is sent into these channels, or is associated with starts at the part irritated and passes to involve more and more of the brain. In such fits it is found that at first the patient's consciousness is not lost, but that, when a sufficient area of brain is involved in this ex- cessive and inco-ordinated action, consciousness disappears. The study of the action of drugs which abolish consciousness—e.g. chloroform and morphine— on the dendrites of brain cells suggests a physical explanation of the loss of consciousness. It is found that these drugs cause a general extension of the gemmules of all the dendrites; and, if we imagine that the co-ordinated action of any part of the brain is secured by definite dendrites of one set of neurons coming into relationship with definite dendrites of another