456 PHARMACOLOGY larger doses there is heightened reflex excita- bility, and convulsions ensue. The drug is thus a stimulant, first to the higher centres, the action descending to lower parts of the cerebro- spinal axis, respiration, heart, and vaso-motor centre as the dose is increased. The stage of stimulation is followed by depression. Eucaine is an artificial alkaloid which is almost as powerful a local anaesthetic as cocaine, but is less toxic. It is neither a mydriatic nor a vaso- constrictor. Its general effects differ greatly from those of cocaine, but in the doses employed to obtain local angesthesia they are of no im- portance. Among other synthetic substitutes for cocaine stovaine and novocain may be men- tioned. They are powerful local anaesthetics, and less toxic than cocaine. (15) Pilocarpine. — Pilocarpine {Pilocarpus pennatifolius) is in some respects antagonistic to atropine; it stimulates the terminations of many nerves supplying glands and non-striped muscle. Action on Secretion.—The sweat glands, the lachrymal and salivary glands, the secretory structures of the mouth, throat, stomach, and respiratory tract, and the pancreas and intes- tinal glands are thrown into a state of activity; the mamma, kidneys, and liver are unaffected. The action is on the nerve endings, and is pre- vented by a small dose of atropine. Action on Non-striped Muscle.—The involuntary muscles of the alimentary canal are stimulated to active peristalsis, and vomiting and purging may en- sue ; the bladder, uterus, and bronchial muscles are also stimulated. Action on the Eye.—The terminations of the third nerve are stimulated ; the pupil contracts, there is spasm of the ciliary muscle, and the intra-ocular tension is reduced. Like the effects on secretion, these actions on the nerves supplying unstriped muscle may be prevented by atropine. Action on the Circula- tion.—This varies in different animals. In cats the terminations of the vagus are first stimu- lated, then depressed ; later, the cardiac muscle itself is weakened. Thus the heart is first slowed, then regains its former rate, then slows again. These changes are not always seen in man. Respiration is not directly affected, but oedema of the lungs may result from even com- paratively small doses of pilocarpine. The lymphocytes are increased in number by the drug, possibly from its constricting action on the muscle of the spleen and glands driving an excess of these cells into the blood. Muscarine, an alkaloid derived from one of the poisonous mushrooms, resembles pilocarpine, but is highly toxic and is not used in medicine. (16) Physostigmine {Eserine).—This is the active principle of the Physostigma venenosum, the ordeal bean of Old Calabar. In its action on the secretions, on unstriped muscle, and on the eye, physostigmine resembles pilocarpine. But whereas small doses of atropine suffice to arrest the action of the latter drug, larger doses are required to antagonise physostigmine com- pletely, while when an eye is under the influence of a small dose of atropine the effect of that drug is lessened by the subsequent application of eserine. The general action of physostigmine is a depression of the central nervous system, particularly in its lower regions—medulla and cord. In man, poisoning by physostigmine shows itself by giddiness and muscular weakness, salivation, perspiration, vomiting and purging, and contraction of the pupil. The pulse is slowed, and death results from respiratory failure. The action of physostigmine on the heart seems to depart to some extent from the rule of an- tagonism to atropine, for although the drug causes slowing of the pulse, this is not a vagus effect, since it occurs even after large doses of atropine. (17) Aconitine.—Aconitine {Aconitum napel- lus and other species of monkshood) is one of the most toxic of all drugs. Delphinine, which occurs in stavesacre {Delphinum staphisagria), resembles it, but is much less poisonous. Aconitine stimulates and then depresses the sensory nerve endings; hence it produces a sensation of burning or tingling, first locally in the mouth, then generally, which passes into a feeling of numbness of the whole cutaneous surface. In small doses the vagus centre is stimulated, the circulation slowed, and the blood pressure lowered ; in larger (poisonous) quantities the terminations of the vagus are paralysed and the cardiac muscle stimulated —the pulse becomes rapid and irregular, and delirium cordis supervenes. The respiration becomes slow and laboured from action on the respiratory centre, which is finally paralysed. There is great nuiscular weakness, and marked fall in temperature probably from affection of the heat-regulating mechanism. Saliva is in- creased, there is nausea and vomiting, the skin glands act freely. (18) Veratrine. — Veratrine is present in several species of the genus Veratrnm; it is ac- companied by a number of other alkaloids, most of which are comparatively inert. Veratrine itself is of little interest medicinally. In some respects it resembles aconitine, stimulating and then numbing the sensory nerve endings when applied locally, and causing vomiting and purg- ing. Its most characteristic effect is on striped muscle, of which it increases both the irritability and the force and duration of the contraction. The effects of fatigue are in some measure lessened by the drug. Its action on the mam- malian heart resembles that of aconitine, but is less marked. (19) Emetine.—Emetine, which, along with Cephaline, is the chief alkaloid of Psychotria ipecacuanha, does not replace the crude drug in medicine; indeed, in certain diseases the powdered root from which the emetine has been removed is said to retain all the thera-