PAROTID GLAND, clear viscid saliva, are found in adults. The wall of the cyst is lined by cylindrical epithelial cells which become tessellated in process of time. The cyst appears to be a dilatation of one of the smaller branches of Stensen's duct. It may be opened, and the epithelial lining- destroyed by the application of a solution of zinc chloride (40 grains to the ounce), or pure carbolic acid, which probably occludes the un- dilated portion of the duct at the same time. Simple puncture gives unsatisfactory results, as it may be followed by the formation of a salivary fistula. The cyst may be dissected out of the gland, but there is some risk of injury to the facial nerve. A second form of cyst, found in connection with the parotid gland, is a dilata- tion of Stensen's duct. It is found in glass- blowers as a result of their occupation, and is best left untreated. Fibromata and myxomata are amongst the rarer innocent tumours of the parotid, but the commonest and best known clinically is the " mixed parotid tumour." These tumours begin to grow in patients between the ages of twenty and thirty. They have no uniform rate of growth, for they sometimes remain stationary for long periods and then increase rapidly; more usually the growth is slow but continuous, until they reach a very large size, as in the case recorded by Mr. Sydney Jones (Tran&. Path. Soc, vol. xxiii., 1872, p. 263), in which the tumour weighed 3 lbs. 14 oz. They retain a rounded outline and feel knobby. The skin over them is normal, except for some venous congestion, and it is movable upon the tumour. The tumour, too, is often movable upon the underlying tissue, and seems much more super- ficial than is really the case. At first there are no functional troubles, but at a later period hearing is diminished, and the facial nerve is paralysed by the pressure exercised by the growth. A guarded prognosis should be given about these tumours. They may at any time begin to grow rapidly without apparent cause, but they do not usually recur after removal. The treatment consists in dissecting them out as soon as possible, and if care be taken, neither the vessels nor the nerve need be injured. Histologically they have given rise to much discussion, but they are placed now amongst the endotheliomata. The tumour, on this theory, is derived from a multiplication of the endothelial cells lining the lymphatics and the capillary blood-vessels. The growth of the endothelial cells fills the lymphatic vessels and spaces with a hyaline substance arranged in a tubular manner, and it is this substance which has been called cartilage, though it has only a superficial resemblance to true hyaline cartilage. Some of the endothelial cells may develop into, or, perhaps more properly, are replaced by fibrous tissue by the same process which gives rise to adhesions in the interior of diseased I, DISORDERS OF 367 joints, whilst other cells undergo mucoid de- generation. New blood - channels may be formed in the endothelium derived from the blood-vessels, and the tumour may thus possess in parts a nsevoid or angiomatous character. Pure chondromata of the parotid are found occasionally as slowly-growing tumours which contain true hyaline cartilage. The malignant tumours of the parotid are either sarcomata or carcinomata, but they are not very common, and most of the recorded cases may be referred to the class of endothelio- mata. True sarcomata are rare. They are either spindled-celled, solid, or cystic, or they are melanotic. The spindle-celled sarcomata are often circumscribed at first, and do not involve the lymphatic glands. The melanotic sarcomata grow rapidly, invade the neighbour- ing lymphatic glands, and soon involve the whole parotid. The carcinomata are either primary, when they begin in the gland itself, or they are secondary to cancer of the pharynx, face, cheek, conjunctiva, or lower jaw. The primary cancers are described as being either scirrhus or encephaloid, the secondary as epitheliomata of the tubular or scaly variety; but it is doubt- ful whether such a classification can be any longer upheld. Malignant disease of the parotid in many cases is readily distinguishable from the innocent tumours. In malignant disease the growth is more rapid, and speedily infiltrates the surrounding tissues, so that it is fixed. The lymphatic glands are enlarged, the skin becomes infiltrated, and if the growth is allowed to continue it fungates and bleeds. Facial paralysis occurs early, and the unhappy patient suffers from severe neuralgic pain. Mr. Butlin lays particular emphasis on the facial paralysis, for he says that, if the nature of the tumour is doubtful and the facial paralysis is well marked, he is inclined to consider the tumour as malignant, the paralysis being due to the implication of the nerve in the growth and not to pressure alone. A soft growth, too, is more likely to be malignant than one which is hard. The prognosis of malignant disease of the parotid is grave. Early diagnosis with speedy removal of the tumour gives the patient a slender chance of recovery. The parotid is best separated from its attachments by dissect- ing it out from above and in front, and after- wards by approaching the fossa behind the jaw, also from above and in front. Each vessel should be clamped in two places before it is divided, and no attempt should be made to save the facial nerve. The operation must be as thorough as possible, for an incomplete removal is often followed by so rapid a growth of the part left behind that the surgeon seems to have done harm rather than good by his operation.