230 PALATE crosis may follow upon injury, or be secondary to dental lesions. Abscess of the hard palate may arise from dental caries, and be limited to the anterior part close to the alveolus or pass backwards along the roof of the mouth towards the soft palate. A sinus may result. Treatment.—Early incision of the abscess and attention to the tooth. 2. Infective Granulomata. — Tuberculosis of the palate is rare as a primary affection. It is usually associated with similar lesions in the tongue, pharynx, or larynx, or with lupus of the nose and face. Two forms are met with. (a) The so-called lupus of the palate begins in small miliary growths or nodules which turn yellowish, break down, and becoming confluent leave an ulcerated surface. Between the ulcers, which vary in size, miliary nodules are con- stantly seen. This association of old and new foci is a characteristic feature of the condition. The process may extend to the bone, but rarely causes perforation. {b) The other form is characterised by the formation of large nodules which caseate and then form iilcers. In the hard palate perfora- tion may occur. Tuberculous periostitis may affect the hard palate, especially in children, and simulate syphilis. Diagnosis.—The difficulty in diagnosis lies between syphilis and tuberculosis when no manifestation other than the palatal lesion is jjresent. The possibility of the two conditions co-existing has also to be borne in mind. Apart from the history and therapeutic test, the appearances of the ulcer and the absence of glandular enlargement in syphilis are of most value. Prognosis depends upon the presence of tubercle elsewhere and upon the tissue or organ affected. In primary tuberculosis of the palate the prognosis is fairly good. The soft palate may, however, be left cica- tricial, deformed, and perhaps adherent to the pharynx ; the hard may be perforated. Treatment. — Locally, lactic acid pure or 75 per cent is perhaps the most satisfactory. Menthol and iodoform are also useful. In some cases the galvano-cautery scraping and excision may be necessary. Perforation of the soft or hard palate and adhesions of the former may have to be dealt with {vide " Syphili.s "). The constitutional treatment is that of other tuberculous affections. Syphilis.—The syphilitic lesions of the palate will not be described in detail {vide "Syphilis "). Primary sores are sometimes met with on the hard or soft palate. The diagnosis is often difficult until glandular enlai-gement manifests itself. Secondary Lesions.—Erythema and mucous piatches and small ulcers are common and typical manifestations. In the secondary period it is not uncommon to find more extensive ulceration, which may destroy a large portion of the soft palate and spread to the hard. The writer has met with several examples of the condition relatively early in the course of syphilis, and usually in elderly and debilitated patients who have not previously been treated constitutionally. The ulceration generally begins near the uvula, and spreads to the soft palate and pillars of the fauces. The velum may be left deformed, perforated, or adherent to the pharynx. Treatment. — Mercury internally. Locally, peroxide of hydrogen spray and perchloride of mercury. Chromic acid 10 grs. to §i. is also useful. Tertiary Lesions.—Under this heading are inckided the later manifestations of inhei'ited syphilis. Small firm gummata may be found in the hai'd or soft palate. In the latter they may arise in the submucosa or muscular substance, in the former in the periosteum, or spread from the nose; this occurs frequently in the inherited form of the disease. Gummata are usually situated in the middle line, towards the back part of the hard palate and the anterior part of the soft. They are rounded in shape and not infrequently single. The glands are not enlarged. The course of a gumma varies. Under treat- ment it may disappear. Frequently it breaks down, or has done so when the patient comes under observation. A gummatous ulcer results. The soft palate becomes more or less destroyed; the hard necrosed and perforated, and the de- struction may extend to the bones of the nose, the alveolar border, and to the antrum. The ravages of tertiary syphilis of the palate sometimes leave the patient in a deplorable condition. Speech is indistinct, and nasal in tone; food passes into the nose, the bones of which are not infrequently destroyed; and the general health suffers from the concomitant sepsis. When the process becomes arrested a large gap may exist in the hard palate, the soft be deformed by loss of substance and cicatricial contraction, and perhaps adherent partially or completely to the pharynx. Diagnosis has to be made from tubercle and tumour {q.v.). Prognosis is always doubtful. The course of tertiary syphilis of the palate is often rapid, and sometimes extremely difficult to arrest. Treatment. — The patient must be quickly brought under the influence of iodide of potas- sium, and also, in most cases, of mercury as well. A tonic line of treatment is also usually indicated.