OUABAINE 199 Ouabai'ne. — A glucoside (CgoH^gOjj or CgflHjgOj^) obtained from the wood of acokan- thera ouabaia; it resembles strophanthin (CgjH^gOjg) in its action, and it has been given in cases of pertussis (dose, xwoo grain). Ourentery.—A teratological state, form- ing a variety of omphalocephaly, and consisting in the displacement of part of the embryo into the posterior part of the alimentary canal (^Rabaud). Ouseht. See Leprosy {Terminology, Coptic Name). Outfalls. See Sewage and Drainage {Sewers). Outg'Oing^ Nerves.—Efferent nerves. See Physiology, Tissues {Nei-ves, Classification of Neurons). Ova. See FcETus and Ovum, Development OF {Graafian Follicle); Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries, Microscopic Structure). Ovalbumen.—The albumen of the egg. Ovaraden. — A preparation from the ovaries of animals, recommended in organo- therapy as a nerve tonic. Ovaralgfia or Ovarialg^ia.—Pain in the ovarian region. See Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Hyperaesthesia). Ovarian. — Relating to the ovary or ovaries. See Ovaries, Diseases of the. Ovaries, Diseases of the. Physiology 199 Removal of Ovaries for Curb of Cancer OF Breast ...... 200 Malformations ..... 200 Atrophy and Hypertrophy . 201 Hernia and Allied Affections 201 HyPBRjEMIA ...... 202 Blood Concretions .... 202 Inflammation ..... 202 TUBO-OVARIAN CySTS .... 203 Syphilis ...... 203 Actinomycosis ..... 203 Leprosy ...... 203 Tubercle ...... 203 Tumours— Pedicle ...... 207 Capsule ...... 207 Complications ..... 208 Symptoms ..... 211 Diagnosis ..... 212 Treatment ..... 213 Ovariotomy ..... 213 Complications .... 213 Tumours of Ovarian Ligament 215 Tumours of Broad Ligament, including Primary Dermoid .... 215 Primary Ovarian Pregnancy 217 See also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Ovaries); Ascites {Causation, Diagnosis); Broad Ligaments, Climacteric Insanity {Treat- ment, Ovarian Extract); Fallopian Tubes {Ovarian Hydrocele); Fluids, Examination of Pathological {Cystic, Ovarian); Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries); Generation, Female Organs, Arrested Development of {Ovaries); Gonorrhceal Infection {Ovarian Abscess); Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Abdominal Palpation, etc.); Hermaphroditism {True); Hernia {Ovarian); Indigestion {Classification, Nervous Influences); Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Floating Kidney, Diagnosis), Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Hydronephrosis, Dia- gnosis) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Tumours, Diagnosis; Stone, Diagnosis); Labour, Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages, Ovarian Tumour); Liver, Diseases of {Malformations from Tight - Lacing, Diagnosis); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Cancer, Treatment by Removal of Ovaries); Menopause {Ovarian Secretion); Menstruation and its Disorders {Amenorrhosa after Oophorectomy; Menorrhagia, Causes; Dysmenorrhoea, Causes); Micturition -{Incontinence, Causes); Mumps {Complications); Post-mortem Methods {Female Pelvis); Preg- nancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Re- troversion of Gravid Uterus, Diagnosis) ; Preg- nancy, Affections op Generative Organs {Ovarian Tumours in Pregnancy) ; Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Etiology); Spleen, Surgery of {Movable Sjdeen, Diagnosis); Ster- ility {Etiology) ; Syphilis (Visceral, Genito- iirinary Organs); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequela;, Ovaritis); Uterus, Malformations of {Rudimentary Ovaries, Accessory Ovary) ; Uterus, Associated Insanity {Ovarian States). Physiology of the Ovary.—It has long been known that the ovaries produce ova, and are closely associated with the general sexual characteristics of the female subject. It now appears more than probable that these charac- teristics are influenced not directly by ovula- tion but rather by some product or secretion elaborated by the ovary. An infant bears thousands of ova in the ovaries at birth, and the majority undergo premature involution before puberty. Then begins the process of ovulation and menstrua- tion, and the capability of impregnation and gestation follow. The precise relation of these processes to each other has never been strictly determined, and demands more lengthy dis- cussion than is at our disposal. An ovum after impregnation can develop a human being with tissues in their right places; it is just possible, then, that the phenomenon of ovarian dermoid means that an ovum not impregnated can under some unknown influence develop the tissues of the human body, but cannot, so to speak, arrange them. The evolution of the