NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 112 third of the supra-orbital margin. Care must be taken to avoid the supra-orbital nerve lying somewhat externally; and, further, pressure must not be made on the bony margin of the orbit. It is a good plan to apply the test simultaneously upon both sides, the patient being asked to press down upon the fingers. A more equal distribution of pressure and a more accurate observation are thus obtained. It is very necessary to differentiate between a surface soreness, such as is elicited even in healthy individuals, and the more deeply-seated true pain. In many cases the patient readily admits the existence of this tenderness, and considerable reliance may be placed upon this sign as an aid in diagnosis when taken in con- junction with other phenomena; on the other hand, the patient's statement cannot always be relied upon. Percussion of or firm pressure upon the thicker anterior sinus wall may fail altogether to elicit tenderness over an affected cavity. (c) Redness, QHde^na, or Swelling in the Region of the Sinus.—Although these signs are more frequently evidence of an acute exacerbation, possibly resulting from an unusual retention of discharge, they may occur as transient pheno- mena in chronic cases. Careful observation and palpation may detect some slight degree of oedema or thickening upon the lower part of the forehead or in the upper eyelid. The patient may volunteer the statement that he has observed temporary swelling in this region. It has been stated that, after percussion over both sinuses, the redness of the skin thus produced remains for a longer period over an affected cavity than upon the healthy side, a point upon which I have never been able to satisfy myself. (d) Transillumination of the Frontal Sinus.— The same lamp is used as in antral illumina- tion, but the vulcanite plate is removed and a short tube of metal, vulcanite, india-rubber, bone, or ivory—the two latter being carefully blackened—is passed over the globe of the lamp. In this way the light is transmitted in one direction only, that is, through the open end of the funnel, which should project somewhat beyond the lamp. The room is darkened, or the head and shoulders of the patient and observer ai-e covered as before, and the end of the funnel having a direction upwards, inwards, and slightly backwards, is placed against the skin covering the floor of the sinus, beneath the inner third of the supra-orbital margin; great care should be taken to see that the edge of the funnel lies well beneath the bony margin of the orbit. When contact is made, an illumin- ated area indicating the frontal sinus of that side may be observed upon the lower part of the forehead. The same manipulation is then repeated upon the opposite side and the result noted. The junction between light and dark- ness indicates the position of the intervening septum. The intensity of the light and the area of its distribution varies in different skulls, and frequently upon the two sides of the same skull. A comparison of the two results ob- tained must be made and noted. It is also possible to illuminate both sinuses simultane- ously by transmitting the light through two tubes, as practised by Lubet-Barbon and Furet. The frontal sinuses cannot be illuminated by the mouth as has been suggested in some text- books. The diagnostic value of this test has been much discussed. Both on anatomical and clinical grounds I find it practically of no value in diagnosis. In my experience a diseased frontal sinus will illuminate just as brightly as its healthy neighbour. So far, therefore, in the diagnosis of frontal sinus suppuration we have to rely upon the exclusion of antral disease and upon the re- appearance of pus in the middle meatus of the nose, shortly after syringing out the latter cavity when it is affected. As this latter sign is consistent with suppuration in the anterior ethmoidal cells, we must endeavour to elicit tenderness on pressure l^pon the floor of the frontal sinus, and investigate the occurrence of oedema or redness of the skin of the forehead and upper eyelid. While all these signs furnish suggestive and even presumptive evidence of the disease, it is necessary to catheterise the sinus before establishing a diagnosis with any degree of certainty. (e) Probing and Catheterisation through the Ostium Frontale.—Although probing the sinus cannot be carried out in a number of cases, there is a large proportion in which this can be accomplished with considerable ease. Two anatomical difficulties, however, may present themselves: in the first place, there is a difficulty due to the presence of the middle turbinated body, and the narrowing and some- times irregular course of the infundibulum ; and, secondly, there is the risk of the instru- ment entering one of the anterior ethmoidal cells. The fact that such a cell may reach a considerably higher level than that of the floor of the frontal sinus only increases the difficulty of accurately estimating the exact position of the point of the instrument. The difficulties may be increased by such pathological con ditions as polypi or hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. Should the attempt to enter the sinus fail, then the anterior portion of the middle turbinated bone must be removed {see Treatment, p. 120). The operation is not a difficult one, and possesses the double advantage of first securing better access to, and later of ensuring better drainage from the sinus (Fig. 2). A day or two after the removal of that bone, and after cocainising the nose and thoroughly removing every trace of pus, a long fine silver probe is introduced through a Thudichum's speculum, its point being guided by the eye