351 PARASITES is tenaciously fixed to the mucous membrane of the small intestine, often of the duodenum, and there is seldom more than one example of the worm in any host. Persons of all ages may be the host of the tapeworm, which occurs in every Fig. 17.—Larger (anterior) and smaller (posterior) hooks of T. solium (x280). (After Leuckart.) country in the world. Although a common parasite, it is nowhere so frequent as T. saginata, and all records show that of late years it is becoming less and less frequent, in consequence, doubtless, of more stringent meat inspection in abattoirs. The cystic larva, Gysticercus cellulosce, is found chiefly in the pig—more rarely in other animals; for example, the dog and cat—or in man, inhabiting the intermuscular connective tissue, the brain, eyeball, or other structures. Man acqviires the tapeworm solely by ingestion of measly pork, as the infected flesh of the pig is termed. There are no reliable statistics showing the frequency of measly pork in this country; it is probably, however, not very uncommon, and especially so in Ireland. The figures recorded by Braun show that in Prussia between 1878 and 1885 the number of in- fected pigs varied from 1 in 270 to 1 in 409. The larva, which is developed from an embryo of the tapeworm, is fully formed ten to twelve weeks after ingestion of the egg. hi the pig the cysticercus is a small elliptical bladder, 6 to 20 mm. in length, and 5 to 10 mm. in breadth. The scolex is situated at the middle of the long equator. The vitality of the larva is usually well maintained for some months at least, but cysticerci are not infrequently discovered dead and calcified. They are most numerous in the muscles, especially in the tongue and muscles of neck and shoulders, but are not frequent in the fat or in any of the internal organs except the heart. The cysticerci are, as a rule, killed at a temperature of 47° to 49° C, but whereas on thorough boiling the temperature at the central portions of the meat will exceed this by 10° to 15° C, and the cysticerci consequently FiG. 18.—Median section through a cysti- cercus with fully - formed scolex. (Braun, after Leuckart.) be killed, the temperature at the similar portion of a moderately well-roasted joint has been found not to exceed 46° to 48° C, and the roast would therefore still be dangerous. Cysticercus cellulosce in the Human Subject.— Man acquires the cysticercus in consequence of the eggs of T. solium gaining entrance into the stomach. The infection may be brought about in more than one way. The eggs may be in- gested with uncooked and imperfectly washed vegetables or fruit, or with drinking water polluted with sewage, or the eggs may be trans- mitted by the fingers from the anal region to the mouth, and, lastly, the proglottides or eggs may pass directly from the intestine into the stomach. The last two modes of infection are probably somewhat unusual, as in the great majority of persons who harbour the cystic larvse there is no evidence of the presence of the tapeworm. The cysticercus is seen as a small pale, yellowish, thin-walled vesicle, as a rule no larger than a pea, enclosed in a connective-tissue capsule, and containing clear, almost colourless watery fluid. The scolex appears projecting within the cavity, and is about the size of a millet-seed, and, if thus projecting into the cavity of the vesicle, has its four suckers, rostellum, and hooks invaginated, and they can- not therefore be seen until pressure is exerted, so as to cause extrusion of the head. At times the cysticercus is as large as a cherry or a grape, but only when it has been subjected to but little pressure during its growth—for example, if growing into the ventricles of the brain. It is not often that the cysticercus, losing its globular form, becomes irregular or racemose, or that it is capable of spontaneous movement. The cysticerci may live in the human tissues for ten or twenty years. The frequency of the parasite is not great in any country, and in the United Kingdom it is not often observed. The majority of cases are re- corded in the male sex, and during the third and fourth decade. The number of cysticerci present varies enormously in dilTerent cases— there may be only one or two, or perhaps thousands. The most frequent sites are the brain and the eyeball; less frequent are the voluntary muscles, the heart, subcutaneous connective tissue, other internal viscera, etc. In the brain the cysticerci, as already men- tioned, may attain a considerable size, and the connective - tissue capsule is thin. They are most frequent in the pia and arachnoid mater and in the vicinity of the fissure of Sylvius, or may be situated in the ventricles, but are in- frequent within the substance of the brain. The cysticercus has usually been solitary, and the surrounding brain substance has often been healthy, though in other instances it has mani- fested signs of chronic inflammation. The resulting symptoms depend largely on the number and anatomical sites of the cysticerci.