195 OSTEOCOPIC PAIN OsteOCOpiC Pain.—Severe pain in the bones (Gr. oo-reov, bone, and koVos, a beating) in inflammatory states, usually of syphilitic origin. See Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones and Joints). Osteodentine. See Teeth {Diseases of the Pulp, Hard Formations). Osteodiastasis.— Separation of the epiphysis of a bone from the diaphysis without true fracture. Osteofibroma.—A tumour composed partly of bone and partly of fibrous tissue. Osteog-enesiS. — Bone formation or development. Osteogrenesis Imperfecta. See Pregnancy, Intra-utbrine Diseases {Foetal Bone Diseases). OsteolOgry. — That part of anatomy which deals with the structure of bone and the characters of the parts of the skeleton. Osteoma.—A bony tumour. See Bone, Diseases of {Chronic Osteomyelitis, Hyperos- tosis) ; Brain, Tumours of {Morbid Anatomy); Hip-Joint, Diseases op {Neuro-Arthropathies, Tumours, Innocent); Meninges of the Cere- brum [{Minor Conditions, Bony Formations); Neck, Region of {Solid Tumours); Tumours {Connective Tissue Type, Osteomata). Osteomalacia (Mollities ossium). See also Chest, Deformities of {Osteomalacia); Deformities {Boiv-Legs, Causes); Labour, Preci- pitate AND Prolonged {Contracted Pelvis, Osteo- malacic) ; Malaoosteon ; Pregnancy, Affec- tions AND Complications {Osseous Changes); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Osteomalacia). ' Though known from early times, osteomalacia was distinguished from rickets only in the year 1772 ; when it was recognised that while the one disease prevents the deposition of mineral matter in the bones during their development, the other softens them by the removal, first, of inorganic, and, later, of organic matter during adult life. Osteomalacia is typically seen in certain districts, in the half-starved woman with a large family, who works in the fields ex- posed to wet and cold, suckling one child and heavy with another. The first symptom, as a rule, is pain in the sacrum, spine, and pelvic bones, which later involves the legs and sometimes the arms. The pain is continuous, but is increased by pressure and by movement. Difficulty in walking is next observed, and owing to inability to flex the thigh on the abdomen, the patient adopts a waddling gait. Increased knee-jerk, ankle clonus, muscular tremors, inability to stand with the eyes shut, and various other nervous symptoms, are early features of the disease. Muscular weakness is of general occurrence. As the disease advances certain bones become softened owing to the removal of their inorganic portions, and bending occurs which is determined by purely mechanical principles. The pelvis first shows deformity. The weight of the body, acting through the sacrum, and the resistance of the ground, transmitted through the acetabula, push in the pelvis, behind and laterally, and so produce the "beaked," "ros- trate," or "triradiate" pelvis, which is figured and described, together with its eff'ects upon labour, in all obstetric works {see "Labour, Contracted Pelvis"). The spine may become twisted in various ways, so greatly reducing the height of the patient. Softening of the ribs causes deformity of the chest, as the weight of the arms pushes its sides together, throwing for- ward the sternum. The angles of the scapulee may become incurved; and, lastly, the long bones may be afi'ected, and are occasionally fractured and bent. The other systems rule, unaffected. Recovery may occur spontaneously even after many years, or the condition may progress until the patient becomes bedridden and dies of concurrent disease. The nervous system is found post-mortem to be free from gross lesions. Histopathological examination has, however, revealed organic changes in the cord which appear to begin in the cells of the anterior cornua. These are not inflammatory in character, and clinical evidence shows that they are capable of repair. There is early congestion of the periosteum with dilatation and congestion of the medullary vessels. The medullary canals are enlarged as are the cancellous spaces. The inorganic matter is removed from the areas surrounding the Haversian canals, and absorption of the oi'ganic portion of the bone may follow ; osteoclasts are seen in the absorbed areas, as in the physiologi- cal process of bone removal. Repair may be observed going on side by side with absorption. Whilst the proportion of inorganic to organic matter in normal bone is about 2 to 1, this is reversed in osteomalacic bone till the proportion is as 1 to 2. The weakened muscles show, post-mortem, fatty degeneration, multiplication of nuclei, and other changes similar to those ob- served in progressive muscular atrophy. Dur- ing the active phases of the disease phosphates abound in the urine ; but apart from this it cannot be said that examination of the urine or of the blood has had results which are consistent or valuable. Osteomalacia is much commoner in women than in men, though numerous cases of its occurrence in male subjects are recorded. The disease most frequently occurs during the period of sexual activity, though in several cases it has appeared after the menopause, and it is also said to have been observed in childhood. Pregnancy and lactation, especially if frequent, favour the