NOSE—POSTNASAL ADENOID GROWTHS 92 who have the V-shaped alveolar arch with its modifications. This narrow upper jaw is asso- ciated, according to the degree of elevation of the hard palate, with encroachment on the nasal fossce in the form of deviations and thickenings of the septum. No doubt such contraction of the superior maxilla, together with the short upper lip, is an undesirable variation due to civilisation ; for such variations from the strictly normal type are not encountered among ab- original races, nor are they so frequently found among the lower orders as among the highly educated and luxurious. Yet adenoids are by no means confined to individuals presenting such peculiarities, though I suspect that the hypertrophy is invariably fovmd in children presenting the narrow upper jaw. We have doubtless predisposing factors, which may be either inherited or acquired, apai't from the narrow upper jaw which is emphatically an inheritable feature; among such is what used to be called the strumous diathesis. Precisely the relation which adenoids bear to a tuber- culous predisposition has not been determined, although such a relation would appear to exist, when we remember that enlarged cer- vical glands are almost invariably present in cases of adenoids, and that the point at which we are to determine whether such glandular enlargements are to be considered as tuber- culous or merely as a sympathetic hyper- trophy is impossible of clinical definition. Still there can be no doubt whatever that hyper- trophy both of the postnasal lymphoid tissue and of the cervical glands not infrequently precedes the infection of the hypertrophied tissue with the tubercle. Nor must we forget the recent tendency to consider the postnasal adenoids as a definite nidus in which the tubercle bacilli find a resting-place and fertile soil for their cultivation (Sims Woodhead).^ Yet, in spite of such predisposing factors, most cases are developed as the result of acquired proclivities. Some babies are no doubt born with adenoids—at any rate, if we may so judge from the fact that often where we find the growths gravely obstructing the breathing in infants, we are told that the little patient has snored since birth; and this in cases where there is no definite evidence of either of the predisposing factors mentioned : indeed, so far as the contracted superior maxilla is concerned, we are compelled to admit that this is never observed in infancy. Congenital syphilis is supposed in certain quarters to be a very important factor; if this is so, we must admit that it is extraordinarily rare to find in the subjects of adenoids other evidence of the con- tamination. Yet I have myself observed a particular virulence in the growths and their tendency to recurrence in children where I have known the father to be syphilitic, and ' Lancet, 1894, vol. ii. p. 957. although his children were supposed to have escaped altogether the congenital disease. Among the more immediate causes stand influenza, measles, and whooping-cough as more often originating adenoids than the other acute exanthemata. The increasing prevalence of these three diseases of late years is doubt- less the main reason why adenoid operations have become increasingly imperative; and the general practitioner, who is the most com- petent to judge upon such a point, and whose eyes have been pretty generally alive to the clinical facts of adenoids for ten years at least, generally maintains the increasing prevalence of buccal respiration and snoring together with the liability to contract colds upon the slightest provocation. This tendency to cold-taking often appears to be an important factor; although, seeing that this is altogether the commonest symptom induced by the growths, it is difficult to separate cause from effect. But whatever view we may favour as to the probable cause of adenoids, whether local or constitutional, we must ever bear in mind that, so far as the pathologists have at present in- formed us, it is impossible to determine at what precise point of enlargement this lymphoid tissue which underlies so thickly the mucous membrane of the postnasal wall is to be con- sidered as patliological. It may even become a question as to whether the growths in them- selves can be pronounced as morbid, and whether they have any importance beyond the mechanical obstruction. Such, at any rate, is the present tendency of belief, although some observers appear to consider the adenoids as a direct invitation to the contraction of catarrhs in general, whether nasal, bronchial, or gastric. My own inclination is to regard the common symptom of excessive cold-taking as due to the obstruction, seeing that we find the same tendency in every form of nasal stenosis, whether polypus, enlarged inferior turbinals, or mere deviations of the septum. And we may state that it is the restoration of the normal conditions of ventilation which is responsible for the cure of the tendency to take cold in all cases of nasal obstruction. Possibly the actual overheating of the nasal fossae, when deprived of the cooling, inspired air-current, may cause hypertrophy of the lymphoid tissue ; for recent experiments on the physiology of the nose indicate that the amount of heat taken up from the mucous membrane is enormous.^ Indeed, roughly speaking, it may be asserted that however cold the external atmosphere, the inspired current of air is raised to the tempera- ture of the blood before i-eaching the pharynx. That overheating causes overgrowth of the Ij^mphoid tissue is a more likely explanation, when we remember that nasal catarrh in one 1 Vide author's On the Respiratory Functions of the Nose (1889, p. 25).