458 PHARMACOLOGY teristic of this group is its action on the heart. The most important members are the Digitalis purpurea (purple foxglove), Strophanthus his- pidus, Convallaria majalis (lily of the valley), Scilla maritima (squill), and Hellehorus niger (Christmas rose). The active principles of these plants are glucosides, and their isolation is attended with considerable difficulty. The most widely used of all, and, indeed, one of the most indispensable of all the drugs in the physician's armamentarium—digitalis—will first be considered in detail, and thereafter the points of resemblance and difference between it and its congeners will be briefly referred to. Digitalis owes its activity to four glucosides —digitoxin, digitalin, digitophyllin, and digi- talein, the first of which is the most active. The pharmacopoeial preparations, which are derived fi'om the leaves, contain all these; commercial digitalines contain relatively more digitalin and digitalein, and hence are less active, and give, as a rule, less satisfactory results in practice. Actimi on the Heart.— Under digitalis the heart's action becomes slower, its contraction becomes more complete, and its diastolic dilatation less. Three phases of the action of the drug can be recognised :— (1) In the first, or therapeutic, stage the rhythm of the heart is slowed from stimulation of the vagus centre prolonging the diastolic pause, and the ventricles contract and empty themselves more completely than normal. The extent to which relaxation occurs during diastole, depending as it does on the conflicting factors —inhibition and muscular action—varies ac- cording to the condition of the heart: if the organ is normal digitalis increases the relaxa- tion ; if weak and dilated, lessens it. Thus under pathological conditions the output of blood at each systole is increased, and the blood pressure is raised. (2) In the second stage (not always recognisable in man) inhibi- tion is increased, leading to slowness and irregularity of the pulse, and excessive dilata- tion during diastole. If the muscular action is well developed, contraction is still very com- plete ; but this may be masked by the excessive inhibition, so that the outflow of blood per minute is diminished, though that at each systole is increased. When the vagus is para- lysed by atropine this second stage is absent. (3) In the third stage, under very large doses of digitalis the heart is very greatly accelerated from irritability of the cardiac muscle, the auricles and ventricles cease to beat in harmony, conti'action follows contraction so rapidly that the chambers of the heart have not time to dilate fully, and, consequently, the outpvit of blood is diminished; finally, the heart is arrested. It is commonly stated that after fatal digitalis poisoning the heart is found in systole, but apparently this is not so. It seems that after tlie circulation ceases the mammalian heart passes into diastole, while that of the frog remains firmly contracted. Action on the Peri- pheral res.se^s.—Digitalis acts directly on the arterioles by contracting their walls, and prob- ably stimulates the vaso-motor centre as well. This, associated with the increased cardiac out- put during the first stage, raises the blood pressure. " As the pulse becomes irregular during the second stage, the blood pressure falls. Action on the Kidneys.—Even in normal persons digitalis has a diuretic action, the amount of water, though not of solids, excreted being increased. This is not due to any direct action on the renal cells, but to the increased cardiac activity, and when dropsy is present diuresis is a striking feature of the action of digitalis. In addition to these effects, digitalis in small doses acts as a bitter and stimulant to primary digestion; in larger doses it is a local irritant, causing nausea, vomiting, and sometimes purging. It reduces the tempera- ture in pyrexial conditions, though how it does so is not known, nor is the action itself of practical importance. Its action on the muscles is not limited to those of the heart and vessels, for in large doses it stimulates the uterine fibres and unstriped muscle generally. In practice it should be remembered that the active principles of digitalis both enter the circulation and are eliminated from the body slowly and irregularly, so that the drug may be cumulative. Our object is to maintain the first stage of its action, and the earliest indications that this is being overstepped are irregularity of the pulse and abnormally low secretion of urine. In febrile conditions the drug has less action in slowing the heart than in cardiac disease, apparently because the vagus is then less active ; hence its eftect should be estimated less by the pulse-rate than by the general con- dition of the circulation. When any symptoms of overdosage become manifest, the recumbent posture should be very strictly enforced lest sudden syncope occur. Strophanthus. — The active principle is a glucoside, Strophanthin. Its pharmacological effects resemble those of digitalis, but, owing to its extreme solubility in water, are more rapidly produced, while for the same reason the drug is not cumulative. Its action on the heart is like that of digitalis, but is much more powerful, while it has very little vaso-constrictor action. It is an active diuretic, raising the blood pressure in the kidneys without constricting the vessels. Hellehorus 7tt(/er.—The glucoside Hellehonn closely resembles strophanthus in its action on the heart and vessels. Squill. — Tins plant contains a glucoside Scillitoxiu and other principles, but to which,' of these its activity is due has not been definitely ascertained. It resembles digitalis in its action on the heart and vessels ; but this is a subsidiary matter as far as its therapeutic value is con-