373 PEDICULOSIS Treatment.—The first step is to treat the bed and body clothes, either by baking them in a disinfecting apparatus at 212° F. or over, or where this cannot be carried out, by thoroughly boiling them in the copper. The patient must next be attended to, and in most cases half a dozen alkaline baths (gij or more of bicarbonate of soda to 30 gallons) to allay the irritability of the skin, soap and water cleanliness, and ung. staphisagrise to rub into the neck where the neck-band comes into contact, will suffice to effect a cure. In obstinate recurrent conditions the fact that nits are deposited on the lanugo hairs of the skin, as observed by Allan Jamieson, must not be forgotten. Here rubbing in paraffin over the whole body, followed by a warm carbolic acid bath (gss to 30 gallons), as he recommends, is necessary to get rid of the parasites. The wearing of sulphur bags next to the skin has also been found useful. Where the patient is much run down from privations general treatment must be added to improve the nutrition and tone. Pediculophobia and pediculosis cerebri cases are very difficult to deal with. The patients should be listened to, and every effort made to convince them of their mistaken notions. Where delusions and hallucinations exist the prognosis is bad, and such cases are for the alienist. Pediculosis Pubis This is in most cases the result of impure sexual intercourse, but it may be quite in- nocently contracted from infected bedding and so forth. This kind of pediculosis is more frequently observed among the better classes than the other two. Symptoms.—Irritation about the pubic region leads to scratching, especially at night. But as the pediculus may extend its operations to the hairs of the abdomen, chest, axilke, etc., the scratching may be generalised. In a hairy man of about sixty-five I found the insect not only about the pubes, but on the abdomen, chest, shins, and in the axillfe and beard, but not on the scalp. Heisler has recorded the case of a child of fourteen months, in which the scalp was involved, and Trouessart another in an infant of five months. In both cases the disease had been contracted from the nurse. In Heisler's case the eyelashes were also affected. Grindon has observed the pediculus pubis in the scalp in several members of a family. In some cases a marked papular eruption about the pubes and adjacent parts is present. When irritant applications have been used there may be a severe dermatitis, eczematous in appearance, which may become widespread. Maculae ccerulece {taches ombrees), first de- scribed by Morrison, have been observed in the affected regions. They are bluish-grey stains in the skin, about the size of a finger-nail. Duguet has shown that the pigment was con- tained in a pair of glands situated in the thoracic region opposite the second pair of legs of the insect. The subject has also been investigated by Payne, who has observed pyrexia in connection with the pediculus pubis. Jamieson thinks the stains have some ansesthetic effect. Does the insect anaesthetise the spot it is about to feed on ? Diagnosis. — The possibility of pediculosis pubis should always be borne in mind whenever there is itching about the pubes and scratched papules are scattered about this region. If the insect be present, a search for it or the nits will be rewarded. As a rule, there is little difficulty in coming to a definite conclusion. Sometimes patients have used irritant oint- ments, and will seek advice for the dermatitis, saying nothing about the pediculi. The true state of affairs may therefore be masked, and a careful examination necessary. The maculcB caerulece, if present, will help, but they require looking for. In hairy persons other parts of the body should be examined. The patients are usually young men, but neither age nor sex can be excluded. Oppenheim has recently drawn further atten- tion to a green colouring matter found in the crab-louse. Where the maculse caerule^ were marked he found that all the mature lice con- tained this colouring matter in large quantities, the parasite appearing diffusely green. The impregnated females showed the pigment most; young individuals were always devoid of it. There is no corresponding colouring matter in head and body lice. T^-eatment.—A favourite remedy used to be ung. hydrarg., but it has sometimes led to such severe dermatitis, to say nothing of the possi- bility of salivation in susceptible subjects, that it is now discarded. The pediculi can be got rid of by less drastic measures. Various ointments may be used, such as : Naphthol P oss, cret. preep. 3ss, adipis ad sj ; or balsam. Peruviani, adipis, aa 3ss. Lotions of carbolic acid 1 in 40, or of perchloride of mei-cury 1 in 500, are useful (the latter carefully applied), the former to destroy the nits, as in pediculosis capitis. Eau de Cologne freely dabbed on will frequently do all that is required. Of course, where a patient comes with a severe dermatitis, this condition must be treated by means of soothing applications, such as lini- mentum calaminse (calaminse prsep. giss, zinci oxidi 3j, ol. olivse, aq. calcis aa giv), or a lead lotion (glycer. plumbi subacetatis §j, aq. dest. ad. §viij). In ordinary cases, when the insects have been got rid of, a soothing lotion is sometimes neces- sary, such as calaminse prsep. giss, zinci oxidi 5j, glycerini 3iij, aq. ros. ad §viij, dabbed on and allowed to dry.