88 NOSE—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION atrophy. The latter occurs partly from pres- sure of the crusts, partly from inflammatory irritation by the poisonous products of the bacilli growing on the surface. The foetor is a symptom due to mixed infection, is not origin- ally in the secretion, but occurs easily from the bacilli of decomposition. The process can creep into all the accessory cavities, as well as into the nasopharynx, larynx, trachea, and the tubes, but it is not identical with accessory sinus suppuration. It may at the commencement remain for a long time without extending; when the process is fully developed in the nose the larynx is also generally affected with swell- ing or atrophy, redness, and formation of crusts. Loss of voice, amounting even to aphonia, dyspnoea, and cough may result from these crusts, which have a predilection for the sub- glottic space and the region below the anterior commissure. There is generally pharyngitis sicca. Dyscrasise are not necessary, although they may predispose to the disease; quite healthy individuals may be affected." None of these theories have yet met with general acceptance. Diagnosis.—Apart from foreign bodies, ulcers, and diseased bone, which are detected without difficulty by rhinoscopic examination, the point of chief importance is to distinguish the dis- ease from empyema of the accessory sinuses, especially of the maxillary antrum. Pi'ognosis.—A priori it would seem impossible in advanced cases to restore the wasted glands, ciliated epithelium, and vessels of the atrophic mucous membrane, and that therefore ozsena is incurable seems to be the experience of most observers. It is, however, a condition that, as long as it is confined to the nose, may with suitable treatment be made quite bearable, and deprived of its objectionable features. In the earlier stages a cure is more feasible, and in advanced age the disease is said to undergo spontaneous recovery. Treatment.—The treatment involves in the first place a thorough cleansing of the nasal cavities of crusts and discharge. This is accom- plished by the use of a Higginson's syringe (see above, p. 85), with a normal solution of common salt or a weak alkaline solution, to which a few drops of liq. pot. permang. may be added. Previous loosening of the crusts by the insertion of plugs of wool moistened with vaseline, or the use of a paroleine spray may be required (see above, p. 85). The crusts may at first have to be removed by the surgeon with forceps. Various antiseptics are then sprayed into the nose, such as a solution of hyd. perchlor. (strength 1 to 5000-1 to 2000). A saturated solution of acid, boracic, or a 10 or 20 per cent solution of menthol in paroleine, or other mild antiseptic, may be substituted. By this treatment, care- fully carried out by the patient twice, or, if necessary, three times a day, the formation of crusts and the occurrence of foetor can be kept in abeyance, and gradual improvement may in course of time result; but the patient must be particularly informed that he will have to continue the treatment regularly, probably for years, in order to keep himself in a state of comfort. It is important for the surgeon to see that the patient thoroughly understands the cleansing. An occasional application by the surgeon of a solution of argenti nit. (grs. 10-60 ad 5j.) on a wool mop to the whole of the interior of the nose seems to be of benefit. Other remedies have been recommended. Lis- terine is used as a spray by Lefferts, and syring- ing with a solution of aceto-tartarate of alu- minium (a small tea-spoonful of a 50 per cent solution in a pint of water) is recommended by M'Bride and Schaffer. Gottstein's method, which has not found much acceptance in this country, consists in inserting a large cotton-wool plvig into one nasal cavity, leaving it in for twenty- four hours, and then, after an interval of the same time, using a similar plug on the opposite side. Gottstein kept the plugs in at night, but other authors have modified the treatment by retaining the plugs (which must be firm and cigar-shaped) for a few hours during the daytime in each nostril. Vibratory massage of the turbinated bodies, light touching with the galvanic cautery, and applications of the constant current, have also their advocates, but I am not aware that they possess any special advantages. A method of treatment which has found several adherents is that of cupric-electrolysis. It was originally recommended by Jouslin and Cheval, and has been advocated by M'Bride and others. After thorough cocanisation of the nasal cavities, and removal of all crusts, a copper needle attached to the positive pole is inserted into the inferior or middle turbinated body, while a platinum or steel needle connected with the negative pole is plunged into the septum. A current of from 3-10 milliamperes is employed for about ten minutes. The operation is, if necessary, re- peated more than once on each side at intervals of a fortnight. When the nasopharynx is af- fected it requires, in addition to the cleansing, special applications made with a brush or spray. The anfEmia which often accompanies oziena must also receive attention. 6. Chronic Infective Diseases of the Nose Syphilis ....... 88 Tuberculosis . . . . . .89 Lupus ....... 90 Glanders ... . . 90 Leprosy 90 Rhinosderoma. . . ■ • .90 Henpuye or Goundu . . .91 Syphilis.—The nose may be attacked by syphilis in any stage of the disease. The