PHARYNX—RETROPHARYNGEAL ABSCESS 475 oedema, towards the angle of the jaw, external auditory meatus, etc. The glands behind and below the angle of the jaw on the same side as the abscess are usually inflamed. In the secondary forms the morbid anatomy will vary with the nature of the primary lesion. Symptoms. — In idiopathic cases, dysphagia or difficulty of swallowing is an early symptom, and may be accompanied by pyrexia with its constitutional symptoms. These are soon followed by dyspnoea and a croupy cough, while the voice becomes aphonic, throaty, or hoarse. The head is held stiffly, and the glands behind and below the angle of the jaw are inflamed. In secondary cases the symptoms may be much less acute, and pyrexia entirely absent. Examination of the oro-pharynx in acute cases will reveal a prominent swelling of the pharyn- geal wall, which fluctuates on palpation. Diagnosis.—-In infants, the symptoms enu- merated may at first suggest membranous laryngitis, but the difficulty of swallowing, bulging of the pharyngeal wall, unilaterally enlarged glands, and fixation of the head, should suffice to differentiate the diseases. In adults, a breaking-down gumma may closely simulate retropharyngeal abscess, but the exhibition of iodides would soon settle the diagnosis. Prognosis.—This is usually good if treatment be undertaken early. Delay involves the risks of asphyxiation from oedema of the larynx, closure of the glottis by pressure of the abscess, bursting of the abscess during sleep (which may result in immediate asphyxia), or a subsequent attack of broncho-pneumonia. In secondary forms the prognosis necessarily depends i;pon the nature and gravity of the primary disease. Treatment. — Once the diagnosis is made, the abscess should be evacuated without delay. Two methods, the external and internal, have been advocated, and both have given excellent results. If the intra-oral method be chosen (and it has the merit of simplicity), the child should be lightly anfesthetised, and a vertical incision made through the prominence of the abscess, while the head hangs slightly backwards over the end of the table, in order to avoid the entry of pus into the larynx. The abscess having been evacuated, the patient should be immediately turned upon his side. If the abscess be large, it would be preferable to aspirate it before making the incision. Marked laryngeal stridor may necessitate tracheotomy as a preliminary to evacuation of the abscess. When the latter is secondary to caries of the spine, Chiene advised an external operation in order to avoid septic infection of the abscess cavity from the mouth. Pollard has adopted same method in the acute idiopathic abscesses of early childhood, and recommends a 1-inch incision along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, commencing the same distance below the mastoid process. The carotid vessels and vagus nerve are held well forwards, the abscess cavity opened, ren- dered as aseptic as possible, and a drainage-tube inserted into its cavity. Suitable constitutional treatment should be adopted in all forms of the disease. Phelps' Operation. Deformities {Congenital Club-Foot, Talipes Squino-Varus, Operations). Phena.cetin. See also Analgesics and Anodynes ; Toxicology {Phena.cetin).—A coal- tar product, occurring as white crystalline scales, without odour or taste, and only very sparingly soluble in water. It is the least de- pressant and toxic of the analgesic class of drugs to which it belongs, and is very exten- sively used for the relief of pain of all kinds. It has, unfortunately, become firmly established as a popular remedy, and sufferers from head- ache who might be cured if examined medically and treated on rational lines, dose themselves with phenacetin over long periods with distinctly harmful results. As an antipyretic, phenacetin, together with the other members of this group, has deservedly fallen into disrepute. When it becomes necessary during the course of an acute illness to reduce the temperature, cold applications are far better than antipyretics. As an analgesic it is of service in migraine, in ordinary headache, in neuralgia, in the pains of locomotor ataxia, in dysmenorrhoea, and in rheumatism. It is best given in doses of 5 grains every hour for three or four doses. For headache, 1 grain of citrate of caffeine may with advantage be added. Lastly, it finds a very important sphere of action in the mitigation of the pain of all forms of inoperable malignant disease. Its employment for this purpose fre- quently postpones for long periods the intro- duction of opiates. Phenalg^ene.—A proprietary prepara- tion said to contain acetanilide with bicar- bonate of soda, etc.; it is an analgesic. See Acetanilide. Phena.lg'in.—A proprietary preparation said to be an ammoniated combination of phenyl and acetanilide ; it is an antipyretic and an analgesic ; ammonium phenylacetamide. Phena.tol.—A proprietary preparation said to contain acetanilide and caffeine, along with various sodium salts (carbonate, bicar- bonate, sulphate, and chloride); it is antipyretic and analgesic. Phenazonum. See Antipyrin amfZ cross-^-eferences ; Drug Eruptions {Antipyiin).