PELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR 382 Fig. 3.—lucisioii for repair of incomplete perineal tear is commenced at c and carried to a and 6. In operating for incomplete tears a horse- shoe or letter U-shaped incision is made round the hinder end of the vaginal orifice following the line where the skin joins the scar tissue (Fig. 3). The ends of the incision rvin forward a little farther than the scar tissue extends, and it must be remembered that these anterior ends of the incision mark what will be the pos- terior margin of the vaginal orifice when sutured. In a young woman likely to bear more children the in- cision must not be carried so far forward as is permissible in a woman more advanced in life, in whom the vagina may be almost closed with impunity, and in whom as a rule there is more need to form a strong perineal body. The incision is deepened by snips with the scissors which free the scar tissue and adjacent vaginal mucosa from the subjacent tissues. The flap of tissue raised and turned forward should be even in thickness, and great care should be taken not to perforate it with the scissors. The wound will ultimately be from an inch to an inch and a half deep in the centre (according to the extent of the tear), decreasing in depth at the sides as it nears to the ends of the incision. Bleeding is checked by pressure, or by a stream of water at 118° F. allowed to run over the wound from a douche-can. If necessary bleeding points may be tied with cat-gut, as it is essential to prevent the formation of blood- clots within the wound after it has been closed. When bleeding has been checked the freed layer of superficial tissue is turned forward into the vagina, so that the wound, instead of being U-shaped, assumes the aspect of a letter V with another inverted over it ^. The sides of the V united in the middle line form the new perineal body. The sides of the inverted A brought together in the middle line merely add to the bulk of the new perineum. As above mentioned, many operators cut away this tissue. It is usual to close the wound with a series of interrupted sutures of silkworm-gut. These are introduced with a well-curved needle so as to take a firm grip of the lateral aspects of the wound, and they are carried well to its bottom so as to prevent, as far as possible, the formation of pockets where blood-clot may accumulate. Such stitches are removed on the tenth or twelfth day, and answer their purpose fairly well. Many operators prefer to use a continu- ous suture of fine cat-gut hardened with chromic acid so as to resist absorption for about three weeks. The deeper portions of the wound are closed by stitches which are buried as the more superficial ones are inserted. The whole of the cat-gut is ultimately absorbed, and no removal of sutures is needed. This method completely avoids the puckering or pocket formation which is inevitable when it is attempted to unite two flat surfaces by a single row of sutures. It is carried out as follows:—The middle of the edge of the flap to be turned forward into the vagina is seized with a pair of forceps and pulled up- ward and forward. A piece of " chromic acid " cat-gut about a yard long is passed by means of a fully curved needle (Hagedorn's or Martin's, with the appropriate needle-holder) into the flap of tissue just below the tip of the forceps. It is tied in this position, and the loose end, being left about 6 inches long, is now used for hold- ing up the flap instead of the forceps. The deep layer of sutures is now inserted from be- fore backwards, the bottom of the wound being closed until its hinder end is reached, and care being taken that each stitch takes a firm grip of the tissues, but does not penetrate either rectum or vagina. The next layer of sutures is inserted from behind forwards, the first layer being buried and the wound rendered quite narrow and shallow. When the anterior or vaginal limit of the wound is reached the operator again turns backward and inserts the third or superficial layer of stitches, which finally closes the wound from before backwards. Some operators do not pass these stitches through the skin, but bring them out just imder it; the majority, however, include the skin and draw its edges neatly together, so that the closed incision forms a single line from the vagina towards the anus. No dressing is neces- sary ; indeed, the wound keeps dryer and cleaner if none be used. The knees should be tied to- gether for a few days. The catheter may be needed for a day or two, though this is by no means the rule. It is said that if the skin be not stitched retention of urine is less likely to occur than otherwise. The bowels should be moved by aperient, enema, or both, on the third day, and regularly every day thereafter. The wound must be kept scrupulously clean, but vaginal douching is not desirable unless there is leucorrhoeal discharge. (This should not be the leucorrhoea should be cured before the operation is attempted.) Stitches which cannot be absorbed by the tissues should be removed on the tenth or twelfth day. The patient may sit up at the end of two weeks, but should not rise till the end of three weeks unless the operation is very slight. Operation for Complete Rupture.—The opera- tion for the repair of tears extending into the rectiim differs somewhat from that above de-