2 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF The scaffolding presents an external perineurium which surrounds the entire nerve, an epineu- rium which divides it into fasciculi, and a very delicate endoneurium which runs between the nerve - fibres of each fasciculus. These structures are of the usual type of white con- nective tissue; they are strong, elastic, and resistant both to injury and to the spread of pathological processes; they enclose not only the nerve fibrils, but also small blood- and lymph-vessels, and probably nervi nervorum. The nerve fibrils are mainly of the meduUated type, and they run in parallel series without breach of continuity between their terminal connections, which consist of a central ganglionic structure at one end, and a muscle plate, tactile corpuscle, or secreting organ at the other. The typical medullated fibre presents three con- stituents, viz. : (1) The axis cylinder, which is absolutely continuous throughout its length; (2) the neurilemma, primitive sheath or sheath of Schwann, which forms a delicate external tube; (3) the myelin, which lies between the axis cylinder and the enclosing primitive sheath. At the " nodes of Ranvier " the primitive sheath presents constrictions situated at fairly regular intervals, and in the area between each pair of adjacent nodes there is found a nucleus which lies in the myelin and in close apposition to the primitive sheath; more accurate observation shows that at each node of Ranvier the primi- tive sheath has an actual interruption in its continuity. It thus appears that the axis cylinder passes continuously through a number of minute tubes serially arranged. Each tube may be regarded as a cell, of which the wall forms the sheath of Schwann, and the body the myelin, while the nucleus presents but slight departure from ordinary types. The axis cylinder, on the other hand, is merely an enormously long process of a single cell, or neuron, and its nucleus lies in a central nervous organ; it is thus devoid of all inherent capacity of growth or repair, and is dependent for its nutrition on its central connections; this dependence upon a distant base renders it peculiarly susceptible to the severance of its communications, but has the compensatory advantage that the base itself is not liable to be injured at the same time as the axis cylinder. The axis cylinder alone is the conducting nerve structure; the primitive sheath and myelin are independent insulating cells, and are entirely absent from "non- meduUated fibres." Again, the axis cylinder presents a peculiar relationship to its insulating cells, which may be compared to the influence of the blood upon the blood-vessels ; the cylinder merely passes through its enclosing cells, but its health is essential to the health of those cells, and vice versa. The development of the axis cylinder also probably differs from that of its containing media ; the axis cylinder is thrust out into the periphery from the central (epiblastic) nerve cell; the myelin and primitive sheath are more probably of mesoblastic origin. The importance and interest of these facts will be more apparent in connection with the pathology of injuries to nerves. Injuries of Nerves Nerves are liable to complete division by cuts and tears, to partial section, to punctured wounds, to contusions and to compression by inflammatory products and the like. So long as they are not directly attacked they present a high degree of resistance to surrounding con- ditions ; thus the sciatic nerve has been laid bare in its entire length without physiological injury, and nerves are constantly found to pass through inflamed and even purulent areas without suffering; this independence of their surroundings depends mainly upon the facts that they carry with them their own blood- vessels, and that the nutrition of the axis cylinders is governed by the distant nuclei of the neurones. Complete section is a common result of accidental cuts and stabs, of gunshot wounds, of certain surgical operations, and especially of amputations; as a result of accident it is most common in the region of the wrist, the ulnar, median, or radial nerve being divided by such agents as chisels, knives, and especially broken pieces of glass. Immediately after section the cut ends of the nerve may occupy one of four possible inter-relationships, viz. : (1) Contact or close apposition; (2) separation by a distinct interval: (3) separation complicated by inter- vention of some other structure, or of a foreign body; (4) complete loss of the peripheral end, as in amputations. The pathological results will differ somewhat in each of these cases. Division without separation of the cut ends is rare, as the elasticity of the nerve causes it to retract when cut; practically it is met with only in the case of the smaller nerves, in partial section, and after the operation of primary suture. The changes which arise under such conditions fall into three classes, viz., in- flammatory reaction of the connective - tissue stroma, degeneration of the nerve - fibres, and subsequent regeneration of the latter. The con- nective-tissue changes present no peculiarities; they cause swelling of the cut ends, with the production of two "end-bulbs," which unite into a fusiform mass of "nerve callus"; this nerve callus re-establishes the mechanical con- tinuity of the nerve, and forms a cicatrix which is eventually absorbed. As regards the be- haviour of the nerve fibres there is still much controversy, and it will be convenient to de- scribe first the view which appears to be most generally adopted, and to point out later certain difficulties which lie in the way of its acceptance. Section of a nerve is quickly followed by