480 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION Expression of Brain Faculty (contd.) — (5) Control thrviigh Muscle Sense . 485 (6) Compound Cerebration . . 485 (7) Retentiveness .... 485 (8) Co-ordination .... 485 (9) Spreading Action . . . 485 (10) Resjoonse 485 Physiognomy, Nutrition, and Expression correlated ..... 485 Defective Development and Mortality . 486 Description op a Case .... 486 Physiognomy and Expression as aids to dia- gnosis of disease have been dwelt upon by the older writers on medicine more than by those of recent times. Observers, when giving their descriptions, have always placed stress upon the facts they have seen tliemselves and regard as the most uniform occurrences characteristic of a certain disease or form of illness. The advance of scientific medicine, with the aid of the stethoscope, the clinical thermometer, the microscope, and chemical examination of the urine and secretions, as well as bacteriological investigations, have supplied more certain cri- teria for the diagnosis of disease than were formerly available. Still it remains true that many points in physiognomy indicate either proneness to disease or aptness in resisting power. This is specially seen in studying the diseases and illnesses of childhood. It is necessary to distinguish observations and descriptions of physiognomy from those of expression. The older writers on physiognomy say very little about mobile expression, and the association of conditions of health or brain status with the types described. Lavater figured the cast of head and features which appeared to him indicative of phases of mental character, but he understood very little about expression. Sir Charles Bell was one of the first inquirers to differentiate clearly between expression and physiognomy, showing that the former depends upon and directly indicates action in the nervous system. Physiognomy deals with the form of visible parts of the body, the head, the separate features, and the palate. Form depends upon relations in size and in proportion; physiognomy is characterised by proportioning of the head and features and their parts in developmental growth as well as size. When these points are described in a patient, together with the condi- tions of health and brain associated, a valuable clinical account is presented of great use in acquiring experience. In studying physiognomy and anthropology instruments of precision may be used. It is, however, necessary, when ob- serving the body, to follow methodical pro- cedure, and to know what to look at and the characteristics to describe, so that observations may be rendered comparable and uniform; at the same time we should learn to distinguish normal from subnormal development. Expres- sion differs from physiognomy, and varies with the changing action of the central nervous system, wliose states are indicated by the neuro- muscular system—just as the hands of a watch express the movements of the wheels inside. Expression in the face is the finest index of changes in the brain-centres as produced by the muscles acting on the cutaneous surface, and may vary as rapidly as the words uttered in expressing thoughts. Still, though the ex- pression be evanescent, it is in many particulars capable of description, and is especially import- ant in the clinical stvidy of mental cases. Ex- pression results from movements in other parts than the face, such as gesticulations and action of the hand and the attitudes of the head and body. Movement is the principal means by which we ascertain the condition and action of the nerve-centres ; further, movement and results of movement are the only means by which mental action in another person becomes known to us. It is now clearly understood that ex- pression is produced by movement and muscular tone, resulting from the balance of action in the brain-centres. Thus expression may be described as a direct sign of mental status, while physiognomy indicates prenatal and con- genital development. Physiognomy is here dealt with as an aid to clinical description and diagnosis, not as applied to ethnography. I think that physiognomical points should be recorded in the clinical de- scription of a patient, as indicating a general condition of development, normal or subnormal. Descriptions of each point in bodily develop- ment—when the co-existing status of general nutrition and the expression of brain-action are simultaneously recorded as normal or subnormal —have added much to our knowledge of the pathology, etiology, and prognosis of clinical cases. The correlations of physiognomy and nutrition of body with the expression of brain- action afford most useful information and ex- planation of many problems. The fact that a physiognomy subnormal in certain particulars is much associated with a low status of nutri- tion adds interest to this subject, and though the relation may be empirical, the correlation as cause and effect appears to be established by experience. The study of physiognomy and expression as applied to medicine is based on observation. We need to recognise normal from subnormal development in our patients as seen in each feature, and in growth of the body as indicated by anthropometry. Among indications of the developmental status of an individual the general conformation of the head and detailed points in physiognomy are of much interest. For the purposes of clinical medicine the volume or content of the brain- case is of more importance than the form; next to this the conditions of ossification and growth