PHARMACOLOGY 448 on the readiness with which the ions are dis- sociated, and thus the inorganic salts, such as the chlorides or nitrates, which are easily dis- sociable, enter much more rapidly into combina- tion as albuminates than do the organic salts, such as the acetates. A dilute solution of lead acetate, when applied to a mucous membrane, produces a thin layer of lead albuminate, which protects the tissues from the action of the weak acetic acid set free. If, however, a strong solu- tion of mercuric nitrate be used, the astringent action is negligible, because the albuminate of mercury, soluble in excess of proteid, does not hinder the further penetration of the salt, while the nitric acid set free is a powerful corrosive. In the case of mercuric salts, their extremely toxic properties towards protoplasm must also be taken into account. Of ordinary metallic preparations, the most corrosive are the per- chloride and nitrate of mercury, and the chlorides of zinc, tin, copper, and antimony; the most astringent are alum and lead acetate; while chloride of iron, sulphate of zinc, iron, and copper, and nitrate of silver stand midway in producing when dilute an astringent action, when strong, irritation and corrosion. General Action.—Metals, except mercury, are slowly absorbed. The trend of modern opinion is that by far the greater part of most metals —e.g. iron—is excreted unchanged thi'ough the alimentary tract, while only a small portion is absorbed into the blood. After being taken up they are stored in the viscera, and are eliminated very gradually, chiefly by the bowel. The symptoms of metallic poisoning, as studied both in man and by the intravenous injection of albuminates in animals, show themselves in (1) gastro-intestinal irritation ; (2) irritation of the kidneys, producing diuresis or even hsematuria; (3) wide-spread affection of the nervous system, comprising delirium or mania, convulsions, para- lyses, and peripheral neuritis; (4) fall in blood pressure, secondary to the above. This general statement of the pharmacology of the heavy metals explains some of their therapeutic uses. The majority are employed chiefly on account of their local action ; only a few are used to produce effects after absorption, and of the nature of the action of two of the most important of these—iron and mercury— we are still largely ignorant. The symptoms of poisoning by these bodies has been indicated in outline ; it is partly a local, partly a general action, and for details of the action of individual metals, the section on " Toxicology" must be referred to. Antimony has to a great extent fallen into disuse. Tartar emetic, its chief preparation, causes perspiration and emesis, with secondary fall in the blood pressure and low temperature. It is a powerful local irritant, producing a pustular eruption. Mercury, as has been said, is absorbed rapidly as compared to the other metals. This is largely due to the solubility of the albuminate, and if the dose be sufficient or repeated fre- quently, acute or chronic mercurial poisoning {q.v.) results. It is highly destructive to lower forms of life, and solutions of perchloride of mercury so weak as 1-50,000 kill infusoria, hence its value as an antiseptic. In small doses mercurials act as cathartics, without affecting the flow of bile. Calomel and other preparations of mercury are also diuretics, particularly when dropsical effusions are present. The use of mercury in the treatment of syphilis is entirely empirical. It is uncertain whether the metal has any action on the blood cells. Locally, mercury is largely employed as an anti- septic, especially as an ointment in cutaneous affections. Copper and Zinc.—The only known pharma- cological actions of these metals which are made use of in treatment are those of astringency and irritation. They are also used as emetics. Silver depends chiefly on its caustic effects for its retention in the Pharmacopoeia. Iron is necessary for the life of most forms of protoplasm. It exists in the body in organic and inorganic combination. In the former the metal is so firmly united to organic substances that it cannot be detected by the ordinary tests until the combination is broken up by some such agent as heat or a concentrated mineral acid. Inorganic iron includes the albuminates as well as the inorganic salts proper. Ferric salts are local astringents and styptics, but ferrous salts form soluble compounds with albumin which are not irritating. The metal is not destructive to the cells as mercury is, so that any corrosive effect is due to the acid set free in the formation of the albuminate. In ordinary doses prolonged over a considerable period constipation and indigestion are pro- duced ; the teeth are apt to become blackened. The dyspepsia is said to be due to the hyper- secretion of hydrochloric acid. Until the last decade it was assumed, on the ground of clinical experience, that iron taken by the mouth was absorbed into the body and reconstituted the haemoglobin which was deficient. This has latterly been the subject of much discussion, and the facts are not yet clear; but it may be said that, notwithstanding the temporary prevalence of the view that inorganic iron was not absorbed, recent work shows that it is taken up by the upper 10 or 20 inches of the small intestine to a small but sufficient degree, and thus its clinical value in chlorosis is confirmed by the last words of pharmacology. Bismuth owes its repute almost entirely to its local action as a protective and slightly astringent powder. Its inertness, however, is due to the fact that it is not absorbed, and the intravenous injection of soluble preparations into animals produces toxic nervous symptoms.