OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 213 pelvic organs will be found free on examination ; but complications often deceive. Treatment of Ovarian Tumours.—An ovarian tumour should be removed when diagnosed. The author has referred, at the beginning of the paragraphs on Symptoms of Ovarian Tumours, to cases detected very early; the surgeon must not be in a hurry to remove an ovary which may be simply swollen through inflammation. He has also devoted a former paragraph to Ovariotomy and Malignant Disease. Tapping is very objectionable, and only justified in the case of a patient subject to a large cyst and attacked with acute pulmonary disease, the cyst causing dangerous dyspnoea. Thoracic visceral disorders and renal or hepatic disease are not contra-indica- tions to ovariotomy unless they be advanced, for they are aggravated by the presence of the tumour. Even diabetic subjects bear ovari- otomy, but only if carefully treated for a month or two first. Ovariotomy during pregnancy is highly successful, though it demands special care, whilst ovarian cysts are apt to undergo serious changes in the puerperium. In short, there is no treatment for ovarian tumour but ovariotomy. Ovariotomy.—The general principles guiding the surgeon in abdominal operations will be found under the proper headings in this work. Ovariotomy is in some cases an opera- tion of extreme ease and safety. In others, especially when the tumour is malignant or dermoid and strongly adherent, it may be veiy difficult and fatal in spite of the most skilful operating and the most careful after- treatment. It is best, but not absolutely necessary when there is urgency, not to operate during men- struation. The patient should be placed in the Trendelenburg posture whenever it is cer- tain or probable that any part of the tumour is connected by adhesions, or by burrowing, with the pelvis. When it is clear that the tumour is chiefly one large cyst, with healthy fluid contents, a 3-inch incision through the middle line is quite sufficient for its extraction after tapping. Under other circiimstances the abdominal wound should be made larger, nor should the surgeon scruple to enlarge it further in the course of the operation if necessary. He must make sure that he has opened the peritoneum, and not taken it for a cyst-wall. Strong anterior parietal adhesions demand great care during separation. The tapping of a cyst is not difficult, but loculi may require breaking down with the hand. This manoeuvre must not be done too slowly, as it causes hfemorrhage into the cyst. Sponges should be packed in the peritoneal cavity around the trocar, especially if there be the least suspicion of infected cyst contents. The collapsed cyst or the solid tumour must be carefully freed from adhesions before complete extraction. Detached omentum should always be ligatured, else it may ooze, and oozing encourages sepsis. When in separating adherent intestine its serous coat is torn, that coat must be sutured. Small lacerations laying open the intestinal canal may be safely treated by sutures carefully applied ; but extensive damage will requii'e resection of the injured gut. The enucleation of a sessile tumour requires the surgeon to bear in mind the anatomy of the pelvis. The fundus uteri is the best land- mark, and the peritoneal relations of the large intestine to the tumour must be carefully inspected. There is often much oozing from the capsule whicli requires ligature of vessels, pressure by sponges, and, in bad cases, drainage by tube or gauze. When there is a pedicle, the outer border, containing the ovarian artery with its big A'eins, should always be tied separately. The pedicle is tlien transfixed, a loop of No. 3 silk being passed through it. The loop is cut, the two silk threads thus formed are crossed on one side; then the ends of one thread are tied well into the groove made by the ligature of the ovarian vessels, and the ends of the other thread tied close to the corner of the uterus. Sometimes a double transfixion is necessary. In very wide pedicles the inner like the outer border should be tied sepai-ately. The pedicle must always be relaxed whenever a ligature is being tied. The free use of the pressure-forceps to bleed- ing points on the parietal peritoneum, etc., is specially advisable in ovariotomy. It avoids the leaving of too many ligatures in the peri- toneal cavity; but great care must be taken lest a forceps be left in that cavity. Flushing of the peritoneum, closure of the abdominal wound, drainage, and after-treatment are conducted according to the general rules of abdominal surgery. Drainage is seldom neces- sary. Flushing, or " irrigation" with saline solution, is never needed in a simple case; but it is very beneficial in bad cases where there is shock, and where much enucleation or separa- tion of adhesions is practised. In such cases two or three pints of the solution should be left in the peritoneal cavity. Results of Ovariotomy.—The operator, should he be in a position to perform ovariotomy on a naturally assorted series, may attain a mortality of under 5 or 6 per cent. Under certain con- ditions, however, the chance of death must always be strong. Amongst the most un- favourable cases are adherent dermoids, where the fatty and solid contents have partially in- vaded adjacent viscera and peritoneum, and malignant tumours closely united to intestine. In Olshausen's practice the mortality of ovari- otomy for malignant tumour was 28 per cent. Complications following Ovariotomy.—As