125 NOSE—FOREIGN BODIES, ETC. readily destroyed and removed by spraying or pouring any oily substance into the nose, or syringing it with chloroform mixed with an equal quantity of water, or pure chloroform may be used after the patient has been anaes- thetised. Amongst the Entomo-zoaria which are rarely met with in the nasal fossae are leeches, centi- pedes, earwigs, and ascarides. The symptoms will usually consist of formication in the nose, discharge, obstruction, vomiting, lachrymation, sleeplessness, and excitement. The most trust- worthy remedy is chloroform, given as already indicated. Nasal Hydrorrhcea Synonyms.—Rhinorrhoea, dripping from the nose. Definition. — An obscure nasal affection characterised by profuse watery discharge from the nostrils, without marked visible changes in the nasal chambers. Etiology.—-The affection is one of adult life, and sufferers are generally of the same type as those who are affected with hay fever. Pathology.—There are no marked changes in the mucous membrane of the nose. The fluid, however watery it may appear as it falls from the nose, is found when collected to be thick, viscid, and slightly opalescent. Under the microscope it shows amorphous matter and mucous corpuscles. With acetic acid or alcohol it gives a stringy precipitate of mucin. It con- tains a small amount of proteid coagulable by heat, it does not reduce Fehling's solution, and it contains 1"208 of total solids. When the fluid amounts, as it does sometimes, to a pint or more in the day, it is less viscid and much weaker in mucin. Symptoms.—The chief complaint is of a watery discharge from the nose, varying from a few tea-spoonfuls to a pint or more in the twenty-four hours. The fluid generally escapes from both nostrils, although it may be more marked on one side than on the other. The flow rarely continues during the night. It is apt to be erratic in its onset and in its inter- missions. In some cases nothing but the dis- comfort is complained of, while in others there are symptoms of local irritation and of reflex disturbance. Handkerchiefs soaked with dis- charge become stiff when they are dried, owing to the amount of mucin in the secretion. Diagnosis.—This is based on the characters of the fluid, and on the exclusion of any intra- nasal or neighbouring sources of irritation. Prognosis.—The aff"ection is without serious- ness to life. Spontaneous cessation will fre- quently occur, and remedial measures are generally successful in mitigating the dis- comfort of the complaint. Treatment.—Unless there is any decided hypertrophy or irregularity in the nasal chambers, or some definite sensitive spots can be discovered, the use of the galvano-cautery or other caustic should be avoided. The pro- fuseness of the flow can often be checked by painting or spraying the nose with a solution of suprarenal extract. The administration of liquor atropise in i or 1 minim doses, especially in combination with liquor strychnise, or of 2V-yV grain of extract of belladonna, is par- ticularly serviceable. General treatment, with change of climate and a visit to some suitable spa, will frequently secure very satisfactory results. Cerebro-spinal Rhinorrhcea Synonyms.—Dripping from the nose, escape of cerebi'o-spinal fluid from the nose. Definition.—This is apparently a rare occur- rence, in which the cerebro-spinal fluid can spon- taneously escape from the anterior fossa of the skull and pass into the nose. Symptoms.—It has long been known that after injuries to the base of the skull the arach- noid fluid can escape by way of the nasal fossse, but it does not appear to have been positively established as a pathological possibility that this escape could take place spontaneously until the publication of a monograph by St. Clair Thomson with a critical study of twenty-one cases.i From this it appears that the chief, and often only complaint is of a constant and long- continued escape of watery fluid from one side of the nose. If collected the fluid is found to be limpid like water, free from taste, smell, and sediment; albumin and mucin are practically absent from it, and when boiled with Fehling's solution there is a reduction of the copper (due to pyrocatechin or some similar body). Diagnosis.—It is important to distinguish this watery discharge from other forms of rhinor- rhoea. This is arrived at to some extent by a process of exclusion, but also by noting the characters of the fluid and the fact that when handkerchiefs soaked with it are dried they remain soft, and can be used again (owing to the absence of mucin). Prognosis.—The condition does not appear to be amenable to any treatment, although in some instances the flow appears to have ceased spontaneously, and it will often intermit for irregular periods. Several of the cases recorded have been followed by changes in the retina and blindness, and by cerebral symptoms and death. Possibly these accidents will become rarer when the true nature of the condition is recognised in good time. Pathology.—The fluid may escape from the cranium along the perineural sheaths of the branches of the olfactory nerves, or by a com- munication between the subarachnoid space and the lymph channels of the nose, or by a ^ The Cerebrospinal Fluid: its Spontaneous Escape from the Nose. London : Cassell & Co., 1899.