PARALYSIS 319 the ulnar side, a position very similar to that seen in chronic rheumatism, except that there is neither swelling nor lipping of the bones, nor is there any grating on movement. In the lower limbs the thighs are adducted and flexed at the hip, the knees are flexed, the feet extended and in a position of equino-varus. In late cases the rigidity may be so marked as to resemble a case of paralysis with con- tracture ; there is, however, no true contraction, but a kind of fixation of the joints produced by the long-continued rigidity of the muscles. Rigidity is, as a rule, only pronounced in the advanced stages of the disease; occasionally, however, it precedes the tremor. The limitation and slowness of movement is in part due to this rigidity. But there are two other factors that contribute to this condition : the first of these is the slowness of the cerebral processes, a prolonged interval elapsing between the thought and the act, and between the wish and the realisation—the act is accomplished, but only slowly and with fatigue; the second factor is the muscular weakness. Gait. — Patients commonly present a very characteristic alteration in their gait: there is a tendency either to run forward (propulsion) or to run backwards (retropulsion), or both may be present in the same patient; the former may be brought out by standing the patient up and gently pressing on the back, the latter by lightly pulling on the garment of a patient from behind. The patients rise slowly and with difficulty from their seat; they hesitate before beginning to walk, but when once started on their for- ward course they run rapidly forward with short, shuffling steps, and are often completely unable to stop themselves, so that unless they come against a wall or some object of support they fall down. They frequently have con- siderable difficulty in turning round, and in order to avoid this they adopt various man- oeuvres ; one of these patients, in order to get out of the out-patient room, makes a circle round the room and a rapid exit through the door which is held open for him. In a patient in whom retropulsion is present the same short, shuffling steps are made in a backward instead of a forward direction, and in many cases the patient is unable to stop him- self, and unless supported would fall. Some- times the phenomenon occurs spontaneously. Although retropulsion is most commonly seen in paralysis agitans, it is not pathognomonic of the disease, for it has also been described in progressive muscular atrophy. Tremor.—Tremor is usually the first mani- festation of the disease ; it begins commonly in the fingers and hands, and is at first slight, and occurs only at intervals, gradually increasing both in extent and frequency till it becomes almost constant. Commencing in the hand, it may for a long time remain limited to the one limb; gradually, however, it spreads, involving first the forearm, then the upper arm, then the leg on the same side, then the opposite arm, and finally the opposite leg. As has already been said, the tremor does not commonly affect the head, but that it does so in some cases, and that even the masseters, tongue, and face may be involved. Aff'ection of the eyelids has been noted, but the ocular muscles always escape. Tremor of the palate, epiglottis, and vocal cords has been described, but it is very rare for these parts to be affected. The tremor of the fingers is a rhythmical movement, having an almost constant amplitude, and is due to the alternat- ing contraction of the opposing muscles ; this movement has been compared to that performed in rolling a cigarette or pencil between the fingers. The movements of the elbow have a lesser amplitude than those of the hand, and those of the shoulder are less than those at the elbow. The handwriting is altered by the tremor, but at first the defects are scarcely noticeable by the unaided eye, though the irregularities can be easily seen by the aid of a magnifying lens. As the disease becomes more pronounced the letters become more ir- regular, the lines zigzaggy, and the writing small and cramped. The tremor of the legs is far less obvious than that of the arms, but occasionally it is so marked that while sitting the foot shakes against the floor. The rate of the tremor is comparatively slow, being between four and five oscillations per second, and as it increases in range so it lessens in frequency. It is present during rest, and tends to cease during the execution of voluntary movement for a few seconds; but this can only be said to be true of the less advanced cases, for when of long standing the tremor persists even on voluntary movement. Gerhardt asserts that the tremor is increased in one-half the cases by attempted movement, and may occa- sionally be brought out by voluntary movement. During sleep the tremor usually ceases. The voice has a peculiar monotonous intona- tion, and there is often a delay in starting, but when once started the utterance is rapid ; just as there is hesitation before beginning to walk, so there is hesitation before beginning to speak. There is difiiculty in modulating the voice, which may even become whining in character. Deglutition always remains good, but the saliva often dribbles out of the mouth owing to the rigidity of the muscles of the lower portion of the face. Alteration in the Skin. — Changes in the skin are almost constant in advanced cases of the disease, and consist in thickening and loss of elasticity. The thickening may be so marked that it is almost impossible to raise a fold, and even when a fold is formed it is very slow in