424 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. the bones of the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, Scotch barley, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutritious soup two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain whole; the bones, &c., boiled till they yield their nourishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, cellery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand 3 cut them small, and throw in with the thick part of peas, after they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal,,which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, and different vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain j especially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But in every family there is some superfluity j and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup could be dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, though the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London, abounding with opu- lent families, the quantity of ten gallons were made in ten gentlemen’s houses, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the supply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal ! To the sick, aged, and infant branches how important an advantage ! nor less to the industrious mother whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others nmay have a larger share, frequently reduces that strength upon which the welfare of her family essentially depends.