96 UOMESTIC COOKERY. the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed well; season it high with these ; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of 6 nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. MOCK TURTLE. Bespeak a calf s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well ■, then half boil it, take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef-broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy : stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils; skin it care- fully, and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, taragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne pe|>per, and salt, to your taste ; also two spoonsful of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and suiall eggs. A cheaper way.—Prepare half a calf s head, without the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put them into a sauce-pan with some gravy made of beef and veal- bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into s)iiall pieces 5 to which a cow- heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it j then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an anchovy, two spoonsful of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, &c. Another.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal two