sours. 155 and we call stock. Of this, various kinds of soup and f^ravy are made ; and in a house where there is much cooking, the stock pot ought to be in use twice or three times a week. The English taste is in favour of strong, rich, and highly-Havoured soups ; but these may he judiciously varied by others of a plainer description — broths, rather than soups, containing only the pure juices of the meat, seasoned merely with vegetables, &c., if thickened at all, tising bread, or rice, or vermicelli. As tlie French are great economists in their kitchens, at the same time they are the most scientific cooks in the world, it may not be presuming to recommend their practice, in this particular branch of cookery. Always use the softest water ; and, as a general rule, give a tjuart to a pound of meat for soup, and rather less for gravy. Place the soup-kettle over a moderate ' fire, that the meat may be gradually heated through, which will cause it to swell and become tender: also the water will penetrate into the meat, and extract all the gross particles which will then go off in scum. If the meat be suffered to boil up (piickly, it will be just as if it were scorched before the fire, and will never yield ajiy gravy.—.\fter the soup has remained near to a boil for half an hour, let it boil gently, to throw up the scum ; remove that carefully, and when you think no more will appear, put in the vegetables and a little salt: these will cause more scum to rise ; watch and take it off, then cover the pot close, and place it so, by the fire, that it may boil very gently, and not vary its rate of boiling. From four to six hours may be enough, but an hour more would not be too much, for the bare meat and vegetables ; all flavouring ingredients should be allowed the shortest possible time, because their flavour evaporates in boiling. It is customary in France to brown the meat, onions, he., used for soup, in a stew-pan, before using them. Their method is to put the articles into a stcw-j)an, without water, with merely a piece of butter, to pre- vent its burning. Great care must be taken to avoid burning 5 as that will injure both the flavour and the