S6 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.— Great attention should be paid to garnishing fish : use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. ^\'hen well done, and Avith very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver and roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be Avrapped in a nice soft cloth after it is Avell cleansed and Avashed.—When perfectly dry, AA'et Avith an egg if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it 5 if done a second time Avith the egg and bread, the fish Avill look much better j then haA'ing a thick-bot- tomed frying-pan on the fire, Avith a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the fish into it, and let it fry middlingly quick, till the colour is a fine broAvn yelloAV, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take it up, and either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain j and if Avanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish, Avbich should look a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs appear distinct; the fish being free from all grease. The same dripping, Avith a little fresh, Avill serve a second time. Butter ghes a bad colour : oil fries of the finest colour for those who will alloAv the expense. Garnish Avith a fringe of curled raAV parsley, or parsley fried, Avhich must be thus done : When Avashed and picked, throAv it again into clean Avater; Avhen the lard or dripping boils, throAV the parsley into it imme- diately from the Avater, and instantly it Avill be green and crisp, and must be taken up AA'ith a slice ; this may be done after the fish is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean 5 Avhich, Avhen hot, should be rubbed Avith a bit of suet to prcA’^ent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very