128 DOMESTIC COOKERY. supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow ; a wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh j when they look flabby about the vent, and this part is discoloured, they are stale. The feet should be supjile ; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons ; they should be fat aud tender ; but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh dark coloured 5 if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. Serve with good gravy. Plovers.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts; the gray, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. Hare or rabbit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old ; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lij) is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stitf, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by ]woper care ; and are best when rather begin- ning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore leg j if there is none it is a hare. Partridges.—They are in season in autumn. If young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellow- ish : if fresh, the vent will be firm j but this part will look greenish if stale. Pheasants.—The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short, blunt, or round, spurs j but if old, thev are long and shar|>.