7^Z DOMESTIC COOKERY. little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beet- root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better j and, to increase the richness, add a few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stew- ing.—A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent : but in the country it is generally sold whole ^\'ith the aitch-bone, or cut across instead of lengthways as in London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. STEWED RUMP ANOTHER WAY. Half-roast it: then put it into a large pot with 3 pints of water, 1 of small beer, 1 of port wine, some salt, 3 or 4 spoonsful of vinegar, 2 of catsup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, marjoram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne 5 cover it close, and simmer till quite tender : 2 or 3 hours will do it. When done lay it in a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy ; put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters, if agreeable j but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat-balls of veal, ancho- vies, bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement. TO STEW BRISKET OF BEEF. Put the jiart that has the hard fat into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water : let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly j then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender ; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, served with the beef;—Take half a