CONTKNTS. viii Page Cutlets another way 91 Other ways Veal collops To dress collops quick .... ib. Another way Scollops of cold veal or chicken 9^ Fricandeau of veal ib A cheaper, but equally good fricandeau of veal .... ib. Fricandeau another way.. ib. Veal olives Veal cake ib. Veal sausages ib- Scotch collops ib. To boil calPs head 94 To hash calf’s head ib. Another way ib- Calf’s head fricasseed 95 To collar calf s head 26. Mock turtle 96 A cheaper way ib- Another * Another 97 Calf’s liver ib- Calf s liver roasted ib To dress the liver and lights 98 Calfs brains a la Maitre d’Hotel ib- Sweetbreads ib- Roasted ij^- Sweetbread ragout ib. Kidney 99 Calf’s tails ib- POUK, &C. Observations on cutting up and dressing pork 99 To roast a leg of pork 100 To boil a leg of pork.. .. ib. Loin and neck of pork tb. Shoulders and breasts of pork ij^- Rolled neck of pork ib. Spring or forehand of pork 101 Sparerib Pork griskin *"• Blade-bone of pork ib. Page To dress pork as lamb.... 101 Pork steaks **• To pickle pork l^'^ Sausages An excellent sausage to eat cold Spadbury’s Oxford sausages 103 To scald a sucking pig.. . • ib- To roast a sucking pig. ■ • • ib- Another way 1^^ To bake a pig i^- Pettitoes i^- Sauces for a pig ^95 To make excellent meat of a hog’s head ib- To roast porker’s head 106 To prepare pig’s cheek for boiling To collar pig’s head ib. To dry hog’s cheeks 107 To force hog’s ears ib. Different ways of dressing pig’s feet and ears ib. Pig’s feet and ears fricasseed 108 Jelly of pig’s feet and ears ib. Pig’s harslet Mock brawn -•... ib. Souse for brawn, and for pig’s feet and ears 109 To make black puddings.. ib. Another way ib- Another way 119 White hog’s puddings.. .. ib. Hog’s lard Ill To cure hams /. • ib. Two other ways ib. Another way that gives a higher flavour H2 A method of giving a still higher flavour ■ ib. To make a pickle that will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, if l>oil,' ed and skinned between each parcel of them.. .. ib. To dress hams 113 Excellent bacon ib. The manner of curing Wiltshire bacon 114