xviii coNT ENTS. Page Another way 325 Quince marmalade ih. Another way 326 Scottish marmalade ib. Transparent marmalade .. ib. Whole oranges carved.. .. 327 Orange chips ib. Orange biscuits, or little cakes ib. Candied orange or lemon peel 328 Orange-flower cakes ib. Apple jelly for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats ih. Red apples in jelly 329 Gooseberry hops ib. Damson cheese 330 Muscle-plum cheese ib. Biscuits of fruit 331 Excellent sweetmeats for tarts when fruit is plen- tiful ib. Magnum bonum plums; excellent as a sweetmeat or in tarts, though very bad to eat raw ih. Lemon drops 332 Barberry drops ib. Ginger drops; a good sto- machic 333 Peppermint drops ih. Ratafia drops ib. Raspberry cakes ib. PRESEUVES. « To preserve fruits forwinier use. A beautiful preserve of apricots 334 To preserve apricots in jelly ib. To preserve green apricots 335 Apricots in brandy ib. To dry apricots in half .. ib. Peaches in brandy 336 Apricots and plums the same way ib. To preserve oranges or le- mons in jelly ib. Page To keep oranges or lemons for puddings 337 To preserve strawberries whole ib. To preserve strawberries in wine 338 A rich way of preserving strawberries ib, Strawberry jam ib. To dry cherries with sugar ib. To dry cherries without sugar 339 To dry cherries the best way ib. Cherries in brandy ib. Cherry jam 340 Rolled cherries, which taste as if done in brandy.. .. ib. To keep currants ib. Cherries and damsons kept in the same way ib. Currant jam, black, red, or white ib. Currant jelly, red or black 341 To keep gooseberries .... ib. Another way ib. Another way 342 Gooseberry jam for tarts .. ib. Another 343' White gooseberry jam.... ib. Red gooseberries whole .. ib. Raspberry jjim ib. Another way ib. To bottle raspberries .... 344 Raspberries whole ib. To preserve greengages .. ib. To keep damsons for winter pies 345 Two other ways ib. Damson jam ib. Preserve of plums ib. To preserve fruit for tarts, or family desserts 346 To keep codlins for several months ib. Dried apples ib. To preserve Siberian crab apples 347 Biffins ib. 'I'o preserve jargonelle pears most beautifully i6.