DOMESTIC COOKERY. 206 3 eggs well beaten, and mixed in from ^ to a whole pint of spring water. Roll tlie paste out thin, double it up, and roll out again; repeat this for the third time, and it is ready for use. BRIOCHE PASTE. Take 7 fresh eggs, 2 lb. of flour dried and warmed at the fire, and 1 lb. of fresh butter. Take i lb. of this flour, and pour into the middle of it a dessert spoonful of yeast, which has been prepared by pouring water over it, stirring it, and allowing it to stand to settle, and then draining the water off. The sediment must be used. Pour a little hot water over the yeast, and mix the paste up with it, which forms the leaven ; flour the pan ; lay the leaven in it before the fire to rise, and slit it on the top. When the paste has risen make a hole in the middle of the remaining flour, put into it a little salt, about a salt-spoonful, the same quantity of powdered sugar to take off any bitter taste in the yeast, and a little water to melt it; the butter broken into small pieces, and the eggs : work it all well together, and knead it thoroughly, spreading it out and working it well: then spread it out entirely, and lay the yeast or leavened paste all over it, taking the greatest care in kneading and shifting the paste about to mix intimately together. It will take some time, and must be thoroughly accomplished. When completed, flour a towel, wrap the paste up in it, and put it into a pan ; if in cold weather in a warm situa- tion, and if in hot weather in a cold one. It is best made a day before it is wanted. Very minute jiieces, shaped in any way, add greatly to the excellence of soup, to be boiled with it, or stewed in the gravy of a vol-au-vent, and strewed over the top. It is cut into shapes also, and fried as the accompaniment of braised dishes of every kind. It is an exquisite case for lob- ster and other patties, or, brushed over with egg, may be fried in shapes for a side dish; or it may be boiled in cups, six in a dish, and served up with