121 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Blood Supply.—From branches of the superior thyroid artery. Action.—It draws the hyoid bone downward, as after swallowing. In labored respiration it will act as an elevator of the sternum, being an accessory muscle of respiration. The sterno-thyroid muscle is wider and shorter than the sterno-hyoid muscle, beneath which it lies. It arises from the posterior surface of the upper part of the manubrium sterni and the cartilage of the first rib, below, and internal to the sterno-hyoid muscle. Its fibers pass upward and outward, and are inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid muscle. In the inferior carotid triangle tlie outer l^order of the muscle partly overlaps the sheath of the common carotid artery. It lies beneath the skin and fascise, the manubrium sterni, anterior jugular vein, sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and in front of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, the crico-thyroid muscle, the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, pretracheal fascia, trachea, common carotid artery, and left innominate vein. This muscle may be absent or double. Nerve Supply.—From the ansa hypoglossi. Action.—It. draws the thyroid cartilage downward, as after swallowing, and assists the crico-thyroid muscle in making tense the vocal cords, by drawing the thyroid cartilage downward and forward. It is an accessory muscle of respiration. The interspace between the internal borders of the sterno-hyoid muscles is wider at the sternum than at the hyoid bone, while the inters2:>ace between the inner margins of the sterno-thyroid muscles is wider above than at the sternum ; a lozenge-shaped intermuscular space is thus formed. The thyro-hyoid muscle, apparentlj^ an extension of the sterno-thyroid mus- cle, arises from the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibers ascend and are inserted into the lower border of the l:)ody and the inner half of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and the an- terior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle pass over the outer surface of the thyro-hyoid muscle ; the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve, the thyro-hyoid membrane, bursa, and the thyroid cartilage lie beneath it. Nerve Supply.—From the hypo-glossal nerve. Blood Supply.—From the hyoid, the sterno-mastoid, and the crico-thyroid branches of the superior thyroid artery, and the hyoid branch of the lingual artery. Action.—It raises the thyroid cartilage toward the hyoid bone preparatory to swallowing, and in conjunction with the sterno-thyroid muscle it depresses the hyoid bone and larynx. Dissection.—Divide the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles at their