438 SURGICAL ANATOMY. cochlea, passes tiirough the aqueductus cochlese, and empties into the internal jugulai' vein. The vena aqueductvis vestibuli receives the veins from the vesti- bide and semicircular canals, and empties into the superior petrosal sinus. The Lymphatics of the Internal Ear terminate in the tympanic and intra- cranial lymphatic vessels. The Auditory Nerve is the nerve of the special sense of hearing. In the internal auditory meatus it divides into two branches, the cochlear and the vestibular; the former is distributed to the cochlea, and the latter to the walls of the membranous vestibule and ampullae of the semicircular canals. THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. The dura mater, the meningeal vessels, the sinuses of the dura mater, and the mode of exit of the cranial nerves from the cranial cavity are described in volume I, pages 568 to 599. "We now resume the study of the brain, the dissec- tion of which has been facilitated by one of the processes for preserving and hardening that organ. THE ARACHNOID. The Arachnoid, the second of the three membranes of the brain, is interme- diate in position between the dura mater and the pia mater. It envelops the brain, and, like the dura mater, sends processes into the longitudinal and trans- verse fissures, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and, to a slight extent, into the fissure of Sylvius. It also surrounds the nerves, forming tubular sheaths for them as far as their points of exit from the skull. Unlike the pia mater, it does not dip into the sulci or fissures between the convolutions, but passes directly from one convolution to the other, bridging over the sulci. It forms a loose investment for the brain, and is continued downward over the spinal cord. Being a serous membrane, it presents to the naked eye a smooth, polished surface. It is connected by delicate connective tissue with both the dura mater and pia mater, but much more intimately with the latter. The connection between the arachnoid and the pia mater makes the inde- pendent removal of the arachnoid very difficult. The arachnoid and pia mater