504 SURGICAL ANATOMY. that a unilateral cerebral lesion may produce what is known as hemianopsia, a symmetric defect in the field of vision of the two eyes. Disease of the Cortex of the Cerebrum.—Irritation of the motor area, as by a small meningeal hemorrhage, meningitis, or the application of a weak Faradic current, causes twitching or convulsive movements of the muscles of the opposite side. When the motor area is destroyed by disease or injury, there is complete paralysis of motion of the opposite side. If both the motor and the sensorj^ areas are involved in the pathologic process, both sensation and motion of the opposite side will be affected. In trephining for focal, or Jacksonian, epilepsy it is customary wlien the brain cortex has been exposed to apply a weak Faradic current to that portion believed to include the centers which are concerned in the initial convulsive seizure; in other words, the convulsive movements which the patient exhibited during the attacks are reproduced by the application of the current. In this manner the different centers presiding over the various movements of the opposite side can be located. When the affected centers have been definitely located, the entire thickness of the gray matter in the affected area is excised. This naturally results in paralysis of the parts over whose motion they have heretofore presided. The arrest of any bleeding and closing and dressing the wound complete the operation. It is hardly necessary to say that if a lesion such as an enlarged Pacchionian body, a cyst, a cicatrix, or a neoplasm is found, it should be excised. This operation demonstrates, therefore, the effect of both irritation and destruction of the motor area. In following up the cases of Jacksonian epile})sy treated by operation, it is interesting to note that the paralysis which follows the excision of the cortex diminishes, after a time, to such an extent as to permit of a return of the convulsions. These operations, therefore, afford but temporary relief in the great majority of cases. The return of function occurs through the compensatorj' action of the neighboring cells. Abolition of the function of certain groups of centers in the motor area of the cortex cerebri results in one or other of the following varieties of paralysis : If of the arm and leg, it is called brachio-crural paral3'sis, or hemiplegia ; if of the leg alone, crural monoplegia ; if of the arm alone, brachial monoplegia; and if of the face alone, facial monoplegia. Facial monoplegia seldom occurs alone, and is most connnonly associated with aphasia, owing to the close proximity of the facial and speech centers. The centers of hearing, vision, smell, and taste may be irritated by various lesions, so that hallucinations of these senses may, like motor disturbances, arise from irritation of the motor cortex. Thus, the so-called sensory equivalent of a Jacksonian convulsion is produced, and from the character of this attack deduc- tions as to the location of the lesion may be drawn. .