OPERATIONS UPON NERVES OF HEAD AND NECK. 205 sors, and the inferior dental vessels and nerve are exposed at their entrance into the inferior dental canal. The nerve and vessels are gently drawn forward with a small blunt hook and traced upward for about a half inch above their point of entrance into the inferior dental canal. Here the nerve and vessels are not in so close contact and can be separated. The nerve is isolated from the vessels, and about one-fourth or one-half of an inch removed, the upper end of the segment being divided first because of the fact that the upper part of the nerve retracts after being divided. If the nerve and vessels are traced too high, the internal maxillary artery is endangered. The wound in the mucous membrane is not closed. The lingual (gustatory) nerve is divided or a portion of it excised for pain- ful conditions of the tongue, as advanced cancer of that organ. The nerve may be exposed by merely cutting through the'mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth near the side of the tongue, and opposite the second molar tooth. The nerve may also be exposed by dividing the mucous membrane about one-half of an inch below and behind the last molar tooth, where the nerve can readily be felt. The auriculo-temporal nerve is exposed where it first lies in relation with the superficial temporal vessels over the posterior root of the zygoma and in front of the piima of the ear. The incision is the same as that made for ligation of the superficial temporal artery. The nerve is found just to the outer side of the super- ficial temporal vessels. The facial nerve is stretched for twitching of the muscles of expression, asso- ciated with more or less pain (tic covvulsif). The nerve is secured near the stylo- mastoid foramen, as it lies superficial to the styloid process and above the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. In this location the trunk of the nerve is found before it gives off the stylo- hyoid and digastric branches, and before it bifurcates into its two divisions. The posterior auricular nerve arises from it close to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The incision begins behind the pinna of the ear, opposite the external auditory meatus, and is carried behind the lobule of the ear downward and forward to the angle of the lower jaw. A transverse incision may also be made behind the lobule. The skin, superficial fascia, superficial layer of the deep fascia, and branches of the auricularis magnus nerve are divided. The flaps which have been made are now dissected from the parotid gland, sterno-mastoid muscle, and mastoid process, the posterior auricular nerve, vein, and artery being avoided. The parotid gland is separated from the mastoid process, and the trunk of the nerve is found above the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, lying upon the styloid process. The nerve is stretched by lifting it with a blunt hook. The spinal accessory nerve is stretched or divided for spasmodic wryneck. Division or excision of a portion of the nerve offers better results. The nerve is