146 SURGICAL ANATOMY. the neck of the scapula it turns around the base of the spine to the infra-spinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the dorsaHs scapuhe, a branch of tlie subscapular a#ery, and with the jiosterior scajnilar artery. The chief Branches of the supra- scapular artery are the inferior sterno-mastoid, supra-acroniial, and articular. Other branches su})ply the subclavius nniscle, the skin over tlic manubrium sterni (supra-sternal), and the clavicle. The inferior sterno-mastoid artery su})})lies tlie clavicular portion of the sterno- mastoid muscle, behind which it is given off. The siipra-acroinJnl branch pierces the trapezius muscle, })asses over the acromion process, and anastomoses with tlie acromio-thoracic and posterior circum- flex arteries. The articular brandies supply the acromio-clavicular joint and the shoulder- joint. The transversalis colli artery, or transverse cervical, usually larger tiian the supra-scapular artery, passes outward across the side of the neck, higher than the supra-scapular, over the scalene muscles aud ])hrenic nerve, and over or between the cervical trunks of the axillary or brachial })lexus to the anterior border of the trapezius, beneath which, and at the outer border of the levator anguli scapulae muscle, it divides into its two terminal branches, the superficial cervical and the posterior scapular. The superficial cervical artery passes upward beneath the anterior border of the trapezius and over the levator anguli scapulai and splenius muscles. It supplies these muscles and the posterior chain of lymphatic glands in the neck, and anas- tomoses with the superficial branch of the arteria princeps cervicis, which descends from the occipital artery between the splenius and complexus muscles. The posterior scapular artery, the larger of the two terminal branches, passes beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapula? muscle to the superior angle of the scapula, whence it descends along the vertebral border or base of the scapula to tlie inferior angle. It runs between the insertions of the serratus magnus muscle in front and the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapuhe muscles behind, which, with the latissimus dorsi and trapezius, it supplies. It anastomoses with the supra-scapular and subscapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of the intercostal arteries. It frequently arises from the third ])ortion of the sub- clavian artery, and in such cases the superficial cervical artery usually arises from the thyroid axis. The veins corresponding to the branches of the thyroid axis empty into the external jugular vein, except the inferior thyroid vein, which goes to the innomi- nate vein. The Internal Mammary Artery arises iidm the lower margin of the first