SURGICAL ANATOMY. 24 however, is exceptional. Below this cartilage is the crico-thyroid space, which is occupied by the crico-thyrpid membrane. It is through this membrane that laryn- got^ny is performed, care being taken to hug the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, so that the incision may be as far as possible from the vocal cords and the crico-thyroid arteries. The vocal cords are situated slightly below a point midway between the deep- est part of the incisura thyroidese and the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The cricoid cartilage is always prominent, and can readily be discerned. It lies opposite the sixth cervical vertebra. Its lower border is on a level with the commencement and narrowest part of the esophagus; for this reason all bodies which have entered the pharynx but are too large to pass through the gullet will lodge behind the cricoid cartilage. The cricoid cartilage is just above the level at which the omo-hyoid muscle and the inferior thyroid artery cross the carotid sheath, the muscle being in front of the sheath and the artery behind. Slightly below the level of this cartilage and beneath the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle is the carotid tubercle, against which the common carotid artery may be compressed. This is the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. The movements of the larynx are frequently overlooked. The larynx rises during deglutition, in singing a high note, and in expiration ; it descends in singing low notes, in inspiration, after deglutition, and during retching and vomiting. When the larynx is moved from side to side, a grating sensation, due to the friction of the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage against the spinal column, is perceived. The larynx is pushed forward in the passage of masses through the lower pharynx. The sudden upward rush of vomited matter produces suction upon the larynx, drawing out obstinately adherent false membrane and collections of glairy mucus; this is one reason for giving children emetics in croup. The trachea is situated immediately below the cricoid cartilage. Ordinarily, not more than one and one-half inches of it appear above the sternum ; an inch more, however, may be revealed if the neck be in extreme extension. This usually leaves about eight rings in the neck, of which the second, third, and fourth are covered hy the thyroid isthmus. The front of the trachea may lie one and one-half inches deep at the top of the sternum, owing to tlie recession of the lower cervical and upper thoracic vertebrte. Opening of the tracliea to relieve dyspnea is beset with many difficulties not all demonstrable in the cadaver—the strong and rapid alternate muscular contractions, the heaving larynx, the distended anterior jugular veins, the flexed neck, the swollen thyroid isthmus, the distended thyroid plexus of veins, and, frequently, a middle thyroid artery. All incisions into the trachea should be in the median line, where fewer important structures need be severed. It is often advisable in cases of dyspnea to incise the crico-thyroid