336 SURGICAL ANATOMY. The lacrymal artery is given olf from the ophthahiiic artery, between the superior rectus and the external rectus muscle, soon after the ophthalmic artery has entered the orbit. It accomi)anies the lacrymal nerve to the lacrymal gland, which it supplies, finally terminating in the conjunctiva and eyelids. It sends off twigs as follows : (1) A recurrent branch, which passes backward through the sphenoid fissure to anastomose with the middle meningeal artery ; (2) muscular branches to the external rectus muscle ; (3) malar brandies, which traverse the malar bone to enter the temporal fossa, one anastomosing with the deep temporal arteries and middle temporal artery, and the other with the transverse facial artery; (4) palpebral branches, which form an arch in each eyelid with the palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery; and (5) some anterior ciliary branches. The supra-orbital artery arises from the ophthalmic artery as that vessel crosses the optic nerve. It accompanies the frontal nerve ui)on the levator palpebrae superioris muscle, emerging upon the forehead through the su})ra-orbital foramen. Having reached tlie forehead, it divides into a superficial and a deep branch, the former ramifying in the superficial fascia, and the latter in the areolar tissue layer of the scalp. It anastomoses with the anterior temporal artery, the angular artery, and the supra-orbital artery of the opposite side. Its branches are : (1) Periosteal, to the roof of the orbit; (2) ninscular, to the adjacent muscles; (3) diploic, to the diploe anrl frontal sinus; (4) trochlear, to the pulle}' of the superior oblique muscle ; and {o) palpebral, to the upper eyelid. The central artery of the retina arises from the o})htlialmic artery just anterior to the optic foramen. It enters the optic nerve oldiquely, about one-half of an incli behind the eyeball, and traverses tlie nerve to reach the interior of the eyeball and supply the retina. Ciliary arteries.—Of these there are three sets—short posterior, long posterior, and anterior. The short posterior ciliary arteries are about twelve in number, and arise from the ophthalmic artery. They run tortuously forward and pierce the sclerotic coat in a ring around the optic nerve, to be distributed to the choroid coat of the eyeball. The loufj posterior ciliary arteries are two in number, and, arising from tlie ophthalmic artery, pass forward on each side of the oi)tic nerve to pierce the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. They then run between the choroid and sclerotic coats as far forward as the ciliary body and iris. The anterior ciliary nrtcricft are branches of tlie nuiscularand lacrymal arteries, and are about eight in number. They ])ass forward in company with the tendons of the rectus muscles, and run beneath the conjunctiva. They then pierce the