220 SURGICAL ANATOMY. stylo-glossus, liyo-glossus, a small portion of the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, palato-glossus, and genio-liyo-glossus. ^ The stylo-glossus muscle runs along the side of the tongue to its ti}). The hyo-glossus muscle is inserted internal to the stylo-glossus muscle. The superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx is seen arising from the side of the base of the tongue. The palato-glossus muscle is continuous with the transverse fibers of the intrinsic muscular tissue of the tongue. The genio-hyo-glossus muscle is next to the median line, and is sej^arated from the genio-hyo-glossus of the opposite side by the septum linguae and hypo-glossal membrane. The intrinsic or lingualis muscle contains longitudinal, transverse, and vertical fibers. The longitudinal fibers are composed of two separate bundles on each side, a superior and an inferior. The superior lingualis muscle lies beneath the mucous membrane of the dorsum, and extends from the base to the apex of the tongue. It is separated from the superior lingualis of the opposite side by the septum linguae. The inferior lingualis muscle is found on the under surface of the tongue, beneath the transverse fibers. It is attached behind to the hyoid bone, and extends from the base of the tongue to its apex. Behind, it lies between the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and in front, be- tween'the stylo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. The transverse fibers form a thick layer beneath the superior lingualis muscle, and extend from the septum linguae to the side of the tongue. The vertical fibers decussate with the transverse fibers, and pass in curved lines from the dorsum to the inferior aspect of the tongue. As the tongue is almost entirely composed of muscular tissue and contains little areolar tissue, it does not become much swollen when inflamed. Many of the muscular fibers of the tongue are attached to the mucous mem- brane ; hence, when the mucosa is destroyed, as in ulcerative processes, the surface of the ulcer presents an uneven, ragged appearance, due, in i)art, to retraction of the muscular fibers. The septum linguae is a fibrous membrane which extends vertically down- ward from the median raphe between the halves of the tongue, and separates the two lingualis and the two genio-hyo-glossus mviscles. Its lower portion is strong, attaches the base of the tongue to the hyoid bone, and is called the hypo-glossal membrane. Paralysis and atrophy of one-half of the tongue may be produced by a cen- tral lesion of the hypo-glossal nerve, as by a hemorrhage affecting the center of that nerve in the medulla oblongata, or by a peripheral lesion, as disease or frac- ture of the occipital bone at the anterior condyloid foramen or by pressure from an aneurysm of the external carotid or internal carotid artery.