644 , SURGICAL ANATOMY. perineal arteries supply the skin and clartos, and the cremasteric branch of tlie deep epigastric artery supplies the cremasteric and the other two spermatic fasciae. Nerve Supply.—From the ilio-inguinal, genito-crural, and superficial perineal nerves, and the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve. The veins of the scrotum empty into the long saphenous vein, dorsal vein of the penis, and internal pudic vein. The scrotal lymphatics terminate in the inguinal glands situated near the inner part of Poupart's ligament, those of the testicle passing along the spermatic cord to enter finally the lumbar glands. Elephantiasis scroti is a disease of the lymphatics, causing enormous enlarge- ment of the scrotal tissues; Owen claiming to have been authentically informed of a case in the West Indies (by Mr. Wordsworth) that was computed to weigh 200 pounds, " to which the patient had been anchored for manj^ years and declined separation by surgical operation." The Testicle is the homologue of the ovary, and is lodged in the scrotum, into which it descends from the abdomen through the inguinal canal just before or shortly after birth. Its connection with the internal abdominal ring is by means of the spermatic cord which is composed of the excretory duct, afferent and efferent vessels, nerves, and lymphatics of the testicle, the remains of the processus vagin- alis, and the three spermatic fasciae. The testicle may not descend in the usual manner. It may remain in the abdomen, stop in the inguinal canal, descend too far and be found in the perineum, or descend through the femoral canal and saphenous opening and lodge between the superficial and deep fasciae of the thigh. The descent of the testicle is described with the inguinal canal. As the testicle hangs suspended by the spermatic cord in the scrotum its long axis is directed from below upward, forward, and outward. It is ovoid in shape, and a little flattened from side to side, measuring about one and a half inches, or four centimeters, in its long or vertical axis, about one and one-quarter inches, or three centimeters, in its antero-posterior diameter, and a little less than one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, in thickness, or transversely. Its Aveight usually ranges from five to six drams, or twenty to twenty-four grams. Its sur- face is formed by a smooth, wdiite investment of dense fibrous tissue—the tunica albuginea. The hilum of the testicle is at the posterior l)order of that organ, and is the I)lace where the blood vessels, nerves, ]ym])hatics, and seminiferous tubules leave or enter the testicle. In inversion of tJie testicle the contents.of the spermatic cord have been twisted by rotation of the organ in its descent and the hilum is directed forward. The epididymis is the rounded, elongated body with expanded ends which