THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 437 In the vestibule are found two vesicles, the utricle and the saccule, the former lying partly in the fovea hemielliptica, and the latter in the fovea hemi- spherica. The membranous semicircular canals open into the utricle by five orifices. Filaments of the vestibular branch of the auditory nerve are distributed to a thickened portion of the walls of the utricle which contains calcareous masses, the otoliths. The saccule, which is smaller than the utricle, receives branches of the auditory nerve through the perforations in the fovea hemispherica; as in the utricle, these nerves are distributed to a thickened portion of the wall of the cavity, which is covered with otoliths. Passing from the saccule along the aqueductus vestibuli is a slender tube, the ductus endolymphaticus, which expands into the saccus endolymphaticus, a blind pouch which lios on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone beneath the dura mater; this canal is joined by a small tube from the u.tricle, and thus the two portions of the mem- branous vestibule are brought into direct communication. The saccule communi- cates with the scala media or membranous labyrinth of the cochlea by means of a short tube, the canalis reuniens. The memWanous semicircular canals are about one-fourth the diameter of the osseous canals in which they lie ; their extremities are ampullated. The membranous cochlea, cochlear duct, or scala media, lies between the scala tympani and scala vestibuli, as already stated. It follows the windings of the spiral tube of the cochlea, and ends blindly at both extremities, though near its basal end it communicates with the saccule by the canalis reuniens. Within the scala media is found the ore^an of Corti, a complex arrangement of modified epithelial cells to which the final ramifications of the cochlear branch of the audi- tory nerve are distributed. The description of the more minute structure of the internal ear is not within the province of this book, and for these details the reader is referred to works on systematic anatomy and histology. Aural vertigo is indicated by ringing in the ears or head, dizziness, reeling, and nausea and vomiting in succession. It is produced by abnormal increase of pressure in the membranous labyrinth. Cerumen or instillation of cold liquids 'into the external auditory meatus may produce this symptom, and it may result from abnormal conditions in the middle ear and reflected irritation in gastric catarrh. Aural vertigo has been termed Me'niere's disease. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the internal ear is derived from the auditory artery, a branch of the basilar, which enters the internal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve, and divides into branches for the cochlea and vestibule. The veins which drain the internal ear are the vena aqueductus cochlea and vena aqueductus vestibuli. The vena aqueductus cochlea receives the veins of the