DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 131 esophagus and behind the first portion of the subclavian artery and the apex of the left lung. Behind the left internal jugular vein and common carotid artery, and opposite the seventh cervical vertebra, the duct forms an arch above the subclavian artery and anterior to the vertebral artery and vein, and descends in front of the anterior scalene muscle to empty into the left subclavian vein at its junction with the internal jugular vein. The Second Portion of the Subclavian Artery.—The relations of the subclavian artery in its second and third portions are alike on its two sides. In its second portion the artery lies behind the scalenus anticus and in front of the scalenus medius muscle ; at this point it rises highest above the clavicle, usually about three- fourths of an inch. It is covered by the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma myoides muscle, the superficial layer of the deep fascia, the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the posterior process of the deep fascia, the phrenic nerve, and the anterior scalene muscle, the latter separating it from the subclavian vein. Above it lies the lower of the three cervical trunks of the axillary or brachial plexus of nerves. Behind it are the middle scalene muscle and the apex of the lung and pleura. Below it lies the pleura, while below and in front of it is the subclavian vein. This portion gives off" but one branch, the superior inter- costal artery. The Third Portion of the Subclavian Artery.—In the third part of its course the artery passes downward and outward from the external margin of the anterior scalene muscle to the lower border of the first rib, occupying the subclavian tri- angle, where it is nearer the surface than in either the first or second portion of its course. It is covered by the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma myoides muscle, the superficial layer and the posterior of the two processes of the deep fascia, and near its termination by the clavicle and subclavius muscle. Running in front of this portion are the supra-scapular artery and vein, while crossing it are the clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, the nerve to the subclavius muscle, and the external jugular vein. The transversalis colli, supra-scapular, pos- terior jugular, and jugulo-cephalic veins, which frequently form a plexus in front of the artery, and should be borne in mind in ligating the third portion of the sub- clavian artery, empty into the external jugular vein. The relation between the supra-scapular artery and the third portion of the subclavian artery at its point of election can be compared, surgically, to the relation held between the middle sterno-mastoid and the common carotid artery at its point of election. The ana- tomic difference is, however, that the middle sterno-mastoid artery passes across the sheath of the common carotid, and is frequently severed in the ligation of the latter, while the supra-scapular passes in front of, and almost parallel with, the subclavian artery, and can be displaced when the main vessel is ligatured. The subclavian