426 SURGICAL ANATOMY. derived from numerous sources, for there are several nerves which enter the tym- panic plexus of nerves. ^The relation of the facial nerve to the tympanum has already been con- sidered. The chorda tympani nerve, a branch of the facial nerve, enters the tym- panum through an opening in the posterior wall (iter chordae posterius), passes through the outer portion of the middle ear near the upper part of the tympanic membrane, crosses the handle of the malleus, and then enters a small, bony canal (iter chordffi anterius) near the Glaserian fissure. In the middle ear it is covered by the tympanic mucous membrane: Involvement of this nerve in otitis media may lead to abnormalities of the sense of taste on one side of the anterior portion of the tongue. The tympanic plexus of nerves ramifies in the grooves on the promontory and inner wall of the tympanum, and supplies the mucous membrane of the tympanum. It is formed by the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, a l)rancli of the great superficial petrosal nerve, a branch of the small superficial petrosal nerve, and the small deep petrosal nerve. The tympamc branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and passes into the tympanum through a foramen in the floor near the inner wall of the tympanum. The branch of the great superficial petrosal nerve, which is derived from the facial nerve, passes into the tympanum through a foramen in the inner wall of that cavity just anterior to the oval window. The branch of the small superficial petrosal nerve, which is also derived from the facial nerve, enters the tympanum near the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. The small deep petrosal nerve, or tympanic l)raneli of the cai'otid plexus of the sympathetic nerve, enters the tympanum through the carotico-tympanic canal. The motor nerves to the tensor tympani and stapedius muscles have already been described. Otitis media and dentition.—Acute otitis media is frequently associated with eruption of the teeth, and is also believed to result from reflected irritation pro- duced by carious or b}^ artificial teeth. This complication of dentition may be explained l)y the connection existing between the nej'ves which supply the tynij);nuim and those supplying the teeth. The great superficial petrosal nerve connnunicates with the tympanic plexus of nerves and, through the Vidian nerve, joins Meckel's ganglion, which is associated with the superior maxillary nerve. The nerves to the upper teeth are derived from the superior maxillary nerve. The small superficial petrosal nerve comnmnicates with the tympanic plexus