SURGICAL ANATOMY. 492 backward. The posterior portion of this lobe is continuous with tlie parietal and occipital lobes, as mentioned under the description of those lobes. • Surfaces.—The temporo-sphenoid lobe presents an external, lateral or convex and all inferior or basilar surface. In addition some anatomists describe an upper or Sylvian surface in relation with the horizontal lindj of the fissure of Sylvius. Upon the lateral surface are three secondary fissures which run horizon- tally : the superior temporo-sphenoid or parallel fissure, the middle temporo- sphenoid, and the inferior temporo-si^henoid fissure. Of these fissures, the supe- rior temporo-sphenoid or parallel is the most constant, and lies entirely on the lateral surface, while the middle and the inferior are much more variable. They are seldom developed with equal clearness, and are frequently interrupted and bridged by convolutions. The middle temporo-sphenoid fissure lies almost entirely on the lateral surface, while the greater part of the inferior temijoso-sphenoid fissure is on the basilar surface. The superior temporo-sphenoid or parallel fissure commences near the ante- rior extremity or apex of the lobe. It tlioii runs backward and ui)ward, ])arallel with the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius,—hence the name of parallel fissure,—and terminates in the inferior parietal convolution, its i)Osterior extremity being surrounded by the angular convolution. The middle temporo-sphenoid fissure commences on the basilar surface of the lobe, and runs upward and backward, parallel with the superior tem})oro-si)henoid fissure. It terminates in the inferior i)arietal conlutiun, its posterior extremity being surrounded by the post-parietal convolution. The inferior temporo-sphenoid fissure lies in great jiart on the basilar sur- face, near the margin of the hemisphere, and terminates posteriorly on the lateral surface; it separates the inferior temporo-sphenoid convolution from the lateral occipito-temporal convolution or fusiform lobule. Convolutions.—Through the medium of the superior, middle, and inferior temporo-sphenoid fi,ssures the lateral surface of the tenip()V()-s))henoid lobe is div- ided into three convolutions: the superior tcnqjoro-splicnoid, the middle temporo- sphenoid, and the inferior tomporo-sphenoid convolution. The superior temporo-sphenoid or infra-marginal convolution lies between the horizontal limb of tlu; fissure of Sylvius and the ])arallel fissure ; it is continu- ous at its posterior part Avitli tlie supra-marginal and angulai- convolutions. The middle temporo-sphenoid convolution lies between the ])arallel fissure and the middle temporo-s})henoid fissure, being clearly marked off above by the parallel fissure. Its lower boundary is by no means .so constantly well marked, and it is frequently continuous with, the infei'ior temporo-sphenoid convolution. It is continuous posteriorly with the angular convolution.