THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 507 Dissection.—Shave the scalp upon one side of the head, and upon the other, turn its entire thickness down in one flap. Upon that side where the skull wall is exposed remove half of the calvaria with a saw or a chisel and mallet. Next reflect the dura mater in one flap and dissect off the arachnoid and pia mater to expose the fissures and convolutions. A familiarity with certain of the cranial landmarks is essential in the study of cranio-cerebral topography. These include the glabella (a point between the eyebrows), the frontal eminence, the external angular process of the frontal bone, the zygomatic arch, the preauricular fossa (the depression in front of the tragus on a level with the upper border of the exteriml auditory meatus), the external auditory meatus, the mastoid process, the parietal eminence, and the external occipital protuberance or inion. The Lower Level of the Cerebrum.—A line drawn horizontally across the forehead through the upper part of the glabella approximately corresponds to the lower level of the cerebrum in front. A line drawn from the external angular process of the frontal bone through the preauricular fossa to the external occipital protuberance approximately corresi3onds to the lower level of the cerebrum at the sides and behind. The cerebellum lies below that portion of the last-mentioned line included between the posterior border of the mastoid process and the inion. Longitudinal and Transverse Fissures.—A line drawn from the glabella over the vertex and along the median line to the inion corresponds to the position of the longitudinal fissure. A line drawn from the inion along the superior curved line of the occipital bone to a point an inch, or 2.5 centimeters, above the external auditory meatus corresponds to the position of the transverse fissure. Fissure of Sylvius.—To indicate the position of the fissure of Sylvius, draw a line from a point one and one-fourth inches, or three centimeters, behind the external angular process of the frontal bone to a point three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, below the most prominent part of the parietal eminence. The first three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, of the line represent the main fissure ; and the remainder of the line, the horizontal limb of the fissure. The ascending limb of the fissure is represented by drawing a line one inch, or 2.5 centimeters, in length vertically upward from the point of termination of the main fissure—that is, three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, from its commence- ment, or five centimeters behind the external angular process of the frontal bone. Reid's base line is drawn from the lower border of the orbit through the center of the external auditory meatus. This line is of assistance in locating the fissure of Rolando. Fissure of Rolando.—To represent the position of the fissure of Rolando, first draw two perpendicular lines from the base line to the line representing the