LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. 169 portion of the artery is also covered by the prevertebral fascia or posterior process of the deep cervical fascia, and is crossed by the nerve to the subclavius muscle. The supra-scapular artery and vein cross this portion of the artery from within outward, and usually lie near the level of the upper border of the clavicle. In this respect the supra-scapular artery bears the same relation to the subclavian artery at the point of election as the middle sterno-mastoid artery does to the common carotid artery at its point of election. Behind this part of the artery are the middle scalene muscle, the first rib, and the lower cervical trunk of the brachial plexus, which is formed by the eighth cervical and the first thoracic nerve. Above it are the upper and middle trunks of the brachial plexus and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The upper cervical trunk of the bracliial plexus, which lies just above the artery and in an anterior plane, may be mistaken for the subclavian artery. Below, it rests against the upper surface of the first rib. The subclavian vein lies below the subclavian artery, but on an anterior plane, and is usually behind the clavicle. In ligating the third portion of the subclavian artery the upper part of the thorax should be elevated by placing a pillow beneath the shoulders; the neck should be extended, and the head turned toward the opposite side. The shoulder is next depressed, to make the subclavian triangle shallow, and to bring the artery nearer to the surface. The skin should be drawn downward over the clavicle, and a transverse incision, three inches long, should be carried along that bone, so that when the skin is allowed to retract, the incision will be about one-half of an inch above the clavicle. This method of dividing the skin obviates the danger of injuring the external jugular vein, which crosses' the artery close to or under the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The incision should extend from the trapezius to the sterno-mastoid muscle. It divides the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, supra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, some small arteries, and the jugulo-cephalic vein, if present. The superficial layer of the deep fascia is next divided. If a plexus of veins be present, the veins should be divided between ligatures, and the posterior process of the deep fascia (prevertebral fascia) carefully incised. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle is located, and the posterior border of the anterior scalene muscle is found, and traced downward to the scalene tubercle of the first rib. The artery may be felt pulsating just external to the tubercle, and is exposed, together with the cervical trunks of the brachial plexus, by a slight dissection. The sheath of the artery being opened, the aneurysm needle is passed around the artery from before backward and below upward, to avoid the subclavian vein, which lies below, but in an anterior plane. The needle should be held close to the artery, to avoid inclusion of the lowest trunk of the brachial plexus, which lies behind the artery.