THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 553 gray matter—the locus niger, or substantia nigra—will be seen in the interior of the crus. Through the medium of this nucleus the crus cerebri is divided into an upper or posterior portion and a lower or anterior portion. The upper or posterior portion is known as the tegmentum, and the lower or anterior portion as the crusta. The tegmentum of the crus cerebri is composed largely of the longitudinal fibers of the tegmental region of the pons, which-proceed from the lateral tract and posterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata; it also receives the fibers of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. The-tegmental fibers of the crus cerebri are sensory, and enter the hemisphere of the cerebrum below-and through the optic thalamus, beyond which they form part of the corona radiata. The tegmen- tum contains two nuclei, the suMhalamic body and the tegmental or red nucleus. The admixture of gray and white matter of the tegmentum forms the formatio reticularis. The crusta is composed chiefly of the longitudinal fibers of the anterior region of the pons, which proceed from the anterior pyramids of the medulla. The fibers of the crusta are motor, and enter the hemisphere through the internal cap- sule, beyond which they form a part of the corona radiata. The inner one-fifth of the crusta contains fibers which are passing to the pons from the prefrontal lobe. THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The Medulla Oblongata, or Bulb, the upper continuation of the spinal cord, begins at the decussation of the pyramids or the upper border of the atlas, and extends to the lower border of the pons Varolii, being not cjuite one ana one-half inches, or 3.5 centimeters, in length. It increases in width from below upward, and just below the pons it is about three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, wide. Its anterior or ventral surface rests partly upon the basilar portion of the occipital bone, and its posterior or dorsal surface is directed toward the vallecula of the cerebellum, which lodges part of the medulla. The anterior surface pre- sents, in the median line, the anterior median fissure, which is the continuation upward of the anterior median fissure of the spinal cord, Avhich fissure is, however, interrupted by white fibers crossing from one side to the other and forming the decussation of the pyramids. On its posterior aspect, for one-half the length of the medulla, is situated the posterior median fissure or sulcus, the continuation of the corresponding fissure of the spinal cord. The medulla oblongata, like the spinal cord, is divided into an anterior, a lateral, and a posterior area. The anterior area is occupied by the anterior pyra- mids. The lateral area is occupied by the olivary body and the lateral column.