424 SURGICAL ANATOMY. small, knobbed projection, the so-called os orbiculare, which articulates wiJi the head of the stapes. The stapes, or stirrup, consists of a head, a neck, two crura or branches, anfl a foot-piece or base. The head articulates with the os orbiculare of the incus. This joint has a capsular ligament, and is lined by a synovial membrane. The two crura diverge as they leave the neck, are grooved on their concave sides, and are attached to the foof-picce or base, which fits into tlie oval window. The base of the stapes is united to the margin of that opening by fibrous tissue. In otitis media the ligaments associated with the ossicles become indurated and stiffened ; through loss of mobility the chain of bones can not transmit impulses to the internal ear, and deafness supervenes. In such cases hearing may be improved by removal of the perforated membrana tympani, the malleus and incus, or b}' massage administered by means of sound. Caries of the malleus and incus not infrequently occurs in otitis media, and they are occasionally dis- charged with the pus in that disease. The Ligaments situated in the tympanum are associated with the ossicles. They consist of the superior, the anterior, the external, and the internal ligaments of the malleus, the ligament of the incus, and the capsular ligaments. The superior or suspensory ligament of the malleus is a slender, fibrous band which is attached to the outer part of the roof of the tympanum and to the highest part of the head of the malleus. It limits downward and outward movement of the head of tlie malleus and inward rotation of the manubrium of that bone. The anterior ligament of the malleus is a strong, fibrous band which sur- rounds the processus gracilis of the malleus. It is attached to the anterior wall of the tympanum around the Glaserian fissure, and to the anterior aspect of the head and neck of the malleus. It limits movement of any amplitude except in a for- ward direction. It occasionally contains muscvilar fibers, and has been described as the laxator fjjvipaiii vniHcle. The external ligament of the malleus is fan-shaped. Its apex is attached to the neck of the malleus, and its base to the margins of the notch of Rivini. It limits outward rotation of the handle of the malleus. The internal ligament of the malleus is the sheath of the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle, and extends from the tij) of the processus cochleariformis to the margins of the insertion of the tensor tympani tendon, which is near the root of the handle of the malleus on its inner surface. It limits outward move- ment of the handle of the malleus. The ligament of the incus is a short, thick band which attaches the ex- tremity of the short process of the incus to the posterior wall of the tympanum near the orifice of the mastoid antrum.