302 SURGICAL ANATOMY. be a symptom of atrophic rhinitis, syphilis, carcinoma, glanders, or occasionally necrosis; and from one nostril a symptom of rhinoliths (incrusted foreign bodies), necrosis, or empyema of one of the accessory cavities of the nose. The vestibule of the nose is that portion of the nasal fossa within the carti- laginous portion of the nose, and is lined with skin which blends with the mucous membrane of the nose. The mucous glands are most numerous over the posterior portion of the outer wall and septum of the nose. The position of these glands and the backward and downward slope of the nasal floor accounts for the gravitation of the mucus to the pharynx. Occlusion of the duct of a mucous gland causes the formation of a retention cyst. Some lymphoid tissue is also found in the nasal mucous membrane. Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the nasal mucous membrane is derived from the olfactory, nasal, and naso-palatine nerves, l)rcUiclies from Meckel's ganglion and the Vidian nerve, branches from the anterior su})erior dental nerve, and bi'anches from the anterior palatine nerve. The olfactory nerves, which arise from the olfactory bulb, enter the nasal fos.sa by piercing the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone as numerous branches. The internal or mesial branches ramify upon the upper one-third of the septum, and tlie external l)ranches upon the superior turl)inated bones and the surface of the etlnnoid above and in front of these l)ones. They form i)lexuses in and beneath the mucous membrane. A7iosmia, or loss of the sense of smell, after a severe blow upon the head is supposed to be due to ru])ture of the olfactory nerves where they pass through the cribriform jjlate. The nasal nerve is a branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth cranial nerve. It reaches the nasal fossa by passing through the slit at the side of the crista galli, runs downward in the groove on the internal surface of the nasal bone, and passes forward between the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage to sup- ply the tip of the nose. It supplies branches to the anterior portion of both the outer wall and the septum of the nose. The naso-palatine nerve is a branch of Meckel's ganglion, and enters the nasal fossa with the naso-palatine artery at the spheno-palatine foramen. It crosses on the body of the sphenoid bone to the septum, upon which it runs downward and forward, supplying its middle portion. The branches from the Vidian nerve and the anterior branches of Meckel's ganglion are small. They su})ply the upper and back part of the septum and the superior turbinated bone. They can seldom be traced. The branches of the anterior superior dental branch of the superior maxil- lary nerve supply the inferior turbinated bone and tlie inferior meatus. The