119 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. The muscular branch supplies the stylo-phaiyngeus muscle. The tonsillar branches arise under the hyo-gloss^^s muscle, and are distributed to and around the tonsils, forming a plexus from which branches to the fauces and soft palate are derived. The communicating branches arise from the petrous ganglion, as stated, and run to the superior cervical ganglion ; to the auricular branch of the pneumogas- tric, forming a loop; an inconstant branch to the ganglion of the root of the pneu- mogastric nerve ; and one from the nerve just below the ganglion, to join the lingual branch of the facial nerve. The lingual branches proceed from the end of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and are, therefore, its terminal filaments. They are distributed mainly to the circum- vallate papillae, while some filaments supply the follicular glands of the tongue and the front of the epiglottis. Others inosculate around the foramen caecum with those of the same nerve of the opposite side. The Internal Carotid Artery, the larger of the two terminal divisions of the common carotid, ascends perpendicularly by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, where it enters the carotid canal, in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It lies at first on the outer side of the external carotid artery, and then behind it. At its origin it is more superficial than elseAvhere, and lies in the superior carotid triangle ; but as it ascends it lies more deeply, passing beneath the parotid gland, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, styloid process, stylo- pharyngeus and stylo-hyoid muscles. It is crossed by the hypo-glossal and glosso- pharyngeal nerves, and the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Externally it is in close relation with the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve, and near the base of the skull with the glosso-pharyngeal, hypo-glossal, and spinal accessory nerves; behind, with the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, the superior ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and the superior laryngeal nerve; internally, w'ith the pharynx, the tonsil, and the ascending pharyngeal artery ; in front it is covered by the skin, fasciae, parotid gland, and the structures which pass between it and the external carotid artery—the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. Dissection.—The deep fascia upon each side of the median line of the neck having been removed, the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles will be exposed. The omo-hyoid muscle consists of two bellies, an anterior and a posterior, connected by an intervening tendon. The anterior belly, which is exposed in this dissection, commences at the tendon intervening between the two bellies of the muscle beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle and in front of the carotid sheath, on a level with the cricoid cartilage. It passes upward along the outer border of