420 SURGICAL ANATOMY. After the membrana tympani has been destroyed by ulceration and the malleus and incus have escaped with the pus, a plug of cotton inserted into the tympanum against the stapes will serve as an artificial membrana tympani. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the membrana tympani is derived mainly from the tympanic branches of the internal maxillary and internal carotid arteries. Nerve Supply.—The chief nerve supplying the external surface of the membrana tympani is the auriculo-temporal. According to Sappey, Arnold's nerve (the auricular branch of the vagus) supplies the lower portion of this surface of the membrane, and branches from the tympanic plexus supply the inner surface. The membrane is quite sensitive. The inner wall of the tympanum presents several points for examination. A conspicuous rounded elevation, the iiromontory produced by part of the first turn of the cochlea, is seen ; on it are faintly marked grooves for the tympanic plexus of nerves. Above the posterior portion of the promontory is a transverse oval foramen,—i\\Q fenestra ovalis, or oval window,—which leads into the vestibule, and when the ear ossicles are in situ, is closed by the base of the stapes. Behind it is the pyramid, at the summit of which is an opening for the tendon of the stapedius muscle. Below the promontory is the fenestra rotunda, or round window, an opening which leads into the scala tympani of the cochlea, and in the recent state is closed by the membrana tympani secundaria. At the junction of the inner wall and roof of the tympanum, above the oval window, is a rounded ridge of bone passing antero-posteriorly; this is produced by the facial canal or aqvie- ductus Fallopii, which lodges the facial nerve. The bony lamina separating this nerve from the cavity of the middle ear is quite thin, especially in children, and in otitis media the focial nerve may become affected by neuritis, leading to paralysis of the muscles of expression upon the corresponding side of the face. The mucous membrane of the tympanum lines the tympanic cavity, and is continuous with the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube and with that of the mastoid antrum. It forms the inner layer of the tympanic membrane, and is reflected over the ossicles, the tendons which enter the tympanic cavity, and the nerves of the middle ear. Middle ear disease may l)e followed by various complications, the most com- mon of which is inflammation of the mastoid antrum and mastoid air cells, result- ing in mastoid abscess. As the mucous membrane of the middle ear is directly continuous with that of tlie mastoid antrum, it will readily be seen how the inflammatory process may extend from the nose to the naso-pharynx, Eustachian tube, tympanum, mastoid antrum, and mastoid cells. Through carious destruction of the tegmen antri or tegmen tympani or