SURGICAL ANATOMY. 672 The Deep Intra-aponeurotic Space of the female perineum, like the supertieial interspace, is subdivided into two lateral portions by the vagina ; these two lateral parts communicate across the vestibule above the urethra. The contents of this space are the virethra, vulvo-vaginal glands, deep transverse perineal muscle, internal pudic vessels, arteries of the bulbs, arteries of the corpora cavernosa, dorsal arteries, and nerves of the clitoris. The Deep Transverse Perineal Muscle {compressor uretlirx) of the female is thicker and smoother than in the male, and arises from the middle of the ischio- pubic ramus for al)Out one inch, or two and one-half centimeters. Its posterior fibers pass inward and backward for insertion into the ])erineal body ; its middle fibers, inward for insertion into the side of the vagina; and its anterior fibers with the corresponding fibers of the muscle of the other side form a loop anterior to the urethra. Blood and Nerve Supplies.—Same as for the homologue in the male. Action.—To compress the urethra, draw the perineal body and lower part of the posterior vaginal wall forward, and suj)port the pelvic floor. The internal pudic vessels, artery of the -bulb, artery of the corpus caverno- sum, dorsal artery, and nerve of the clitoris follow a course so like the correspond- ing structures in the male that their further description is unnecessary. The Dorsal Vein of the Clitoris takes a course similar to that of the dorsal vein of the penis, and finally empties into the lower part of the vesical plexus of veins after communicating with the internal pudic vein. Dissection.—To expose the superior layer of the triangular ligament remove the deep transverse perineal muscle and the vessels and nerves of the deep perineal interspace. The Superior or Deep Layer of the Triangular Ligament is like that of the male, excei)t that it is perforated by the vagina and Ijlends with the fibrous coat of that canal. It is pierced by the vagina, the urethra, tlie intci'nal pudic artery and veins, and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris. Di.ssECTioN.—The superior layer of the triangular ligament is next removed. As the anal fascia has been removed in dissecting the ischio-rectal fossie, the whole of the inferior surface of the levator ani muscle is now exi)osed. The Levator Ani Muscle in the female difiers from the corresponding muscle in the male only at its anterior jtortion, wliich closely embraces the sides and posterior wall of the vagina, whereas that i)art of the muscle in the male embraces the prostate gland. Nerve Supply.—Same as in the male. Action.—Its action is similar : to assist in supporting and compressing the jK'lvic viscera.