543 THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. posterior or lower, called the testes. They are situated upon a layer of gray matter known as the lamina quadrigemina, which overlies the aqueduct of Sylvius. They give off anteriorly four bands or braehia, which are composed of wliite matter externally and gray matter internally. The bracJda of the nates, or supe- rior braehia, pass under the internal geniculate bodies into the optic tracts. The braehia of the testes, or inferior braehia, pass below and external to the braehia of the nates, and below the internal geniculate bodies leave the surface. The posterior quadrigeminal bodies or testes are each connected with the hemisphere of the cere- bellum by a broad band of white matter, the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (processus e cerebello ad testes). Dissection.—In order to see the superior cerebellar peduncles more clearly, the anterior extremity of the middle lobe of the cerebellum should be lifted slightly and pushed backward, or, better, a longitudinal incision should be carried through the middle of this lobe, and each half displaced laterally. This will expose these peduncles clearly and also show the fillet and the valve of A'^ieussens. The Superior Peduncle of the Cerebellum (processus e cerebello ad testes) con- nects the hemisphere of the cerebellum with the opposite hemisphere of the cere- brum. It passes upward, forward, and inward along the side of the anterior part of the fourth ventricle, and beneath the corpora c|uadrigemina, where the fibers of the two peduncles decussate; beyond the corpora quadrigemina, along with the teg- mental fibers of the crura cerebri, the fibers of each peduncle are continued to the optic thalamus and lenticular nucleus of the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. The Valve of Vieussens, the anterior or superior medullary velum, is a tri- angular layer of white matter, narrow in front and broad behind, stx'etched between the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and extending from the anterior extremity or nodule of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum to the corpora quadri- gemina. It forms a portion of the roof of the fourth ventricle. Along the middle line of the upper surface is a longitudinal ridge, the frenulum. The lower half is overlapped by the lingula, a corrugated lobule of gray matter prolonged from the anterior extremity of the superior vermiform process. The trochlear nerves decus- sate within it, and emerge from its dorsal surface, just behind the inferior quadri- geminal bodies. The fillet is a small, fiat band or bundle of nerve fibers situated below and . external to the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. It emerges from the pons'at the upper limit of its posterior region, and appears as a triangular band which is situated above the crus cerebri and disappears under the testis and brachiuirj of the testis. Dissection.—If the superior and inferior vermiform jDrocesses of the cere- bellum were not divided longitudinally when exposing tlie valve of Vieussens,