95 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. sterno-mastoid, auricular, posterior meningeal, mastoid, princeps cervicis, communi- cating, and terminal. The muscular branches supply the digastric, stylo-hyoid, splenius, trachelo- mastoid, trapezius, recti, superior and inferior oblique, and the occipitalis muscles. The superior sterno-mastoid artery enters the sterno-mastoid muscle with the spinal accessory nerve. It arises from the first portion of the occipital artery, and passes downward and backward over the hypo-glossal nerve to enter the sterno^ mastoid muscle. The auricular branch supplies the back of the pinna. At times it is large and takes the place of the posterior auricular artery; it may send a branch to the dura mater through the mastoid foramen. The posterior meningeal branches ascend along the internal jugular vein, and enter the cranial cavity through the jugular foramen to supply the dura mater of the posterior cranial fossa. The mastoid branch is a small vessel which traverses the mastoid foramen to supply the diploe, the walls of the lateral sinus, the dura mater, and the mas- toid air cells. The princeps cervicis artery is the largest branch of the occij^ital artery. It runs down the back of the neck between the splenius and the complexus muscle, and divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch pierces the splenius and runs between it and the trapezius, supplying these muscles and anastomosing with the superficial cervical artery, one of the terminal branches of the transversalis colli; the deep branch descends between the complexus and semi- spinalis colli, supplies these muscles, and anastomoses with branches of the verte- bral and with the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal artery. The anastomoses between the occipital, vertebral, and superior intercostal arteries play an important part in the formation of the collateral circulation after ligation of the common carotid or the subclavian artery. Communicating branches run between the recti and the superior and inferior oblique muscles to anastomose with branches of the vertebral artery. The terminal branches pass laterally and mesially upward in the superficial fascia of the occipital region of the scalp to supply the scalp and pericranium, and are known as external and internal. They anastomose with the occipital artery of the opposite side, the posterior auricular and the superficial temporal artery. The occipital vein accompanies the third portion of the occipital artery; it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, and with the diploic veins, piercing the trapezius muscle with the occipital artery. It enters the occipital triangle and terminates in the deep cervical vein, or it may bifurcate, one subdivision emptying into the posterior jugular vein, and the other