456 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Position of the Medulla Oblongata.—The medulla oblongata is continuous below with the spinal cord, and rests upon the posterior part of the basilar process of^the occi])ital bone. Contour.—The brain is convex upon its upper and lateral surfaces, and irreg- ular upon the lower or basilar surface, where it conforms to the base of the skull. The form of the surface of the brain is largely that of the interior of the cranium, but not sufficiently so as to make phrenology an exact science. Structures at the Base of the Brain.—In dissecting the brain the most suit- able article upon which to place it is an ordinar}^ dinner j)late covered with a thick layer of absorbent cotton wet with alcohol. This soft bed will prevent the convo- lutions from being flattened when the brain is laid on its upper surface to study the structures forming the base. These are the inferior surfaces of the frontal and temporo-sphenoid lobes of the cerebrum, which are irregular and conform to the inequalities of the base of the skull, this relation explaining why contusion of the cerebrum is more common'at the basilar surface of these lobes than elsewhere ; the fissvire of Sylvius, which separates the frontal from the temporo-sphenoid lobe ; the olfactory tracts and bulbs ; the longitudinal fissure ; the corpus callosum and its jieduncles ; the anterior perforated spaces ; the optic commissure and the terminal parts of the optic tracts ; the lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereum and a part of the infundibulum—the remaining part, with the pituitary body, having been de- scribed ; the corpora albicantia, or mannnillary eminences ; the posterior perforated space ; the crura cerebri; the pons Varolii; the middle crura of the cerebellum ; the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum ; the medulla oblongata ; the posterior extremity of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum ; and, finally, the roots of the cranial nerves. Frontal Lobes.—The inferior or orbital surfaces of the frontal lobes are trian- gular in shape, and separated in front by the longitudinal fissure. Their bases are directed ])ackward, and formed by the fissure of Sylvius. They present two well-pronounced sulci or fissures—the triradiate, or orbital, and the olfactory. These, as will be seen later, divide them into their convolutions. The Olfactory Tract and Bulb are seen occupying the olfactory sulcus. Temporal Lobes.—The inferior surface of the temporal or temporo-sphenoid lobe, is slightly convex anteriorly and concave posteriorly, and thus accommodates itself in front to the portions of the middle cranial fossa formed by the greater wing of the sphenoid and the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and behind to the convex tentorium. It presents the termination of two well-])ronounced sulci—the third temporal and the inferior occipito-tem|)oral. Fissure of Sylvius.—Between the inferior surfaces of the adjacent frontal and temporo-si)henoid lobes is seen the fi.ssure of Sylvius, the largest of the prim-