38 SURGICAL ANATOMY. will occasion very free bleeding ; this might mislead the surgeon in performing his first tracheotomy, leading him to think that he had opened an anomalously high left innominate vein. The anterior jugular vein contains no valves, and its variation in size, in inverse proportion to the other jugular veins, should be remembered. / Dissection.—Next trace the superficial branches of the cervical plexus and the infra-maxillary branch of the cervico-facial division of the facial nerve. The superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves are divided into the ascending, transverse, and descending branches. The ascending branches are the occipitalis minor and auricularis magnus nerves. The transverse branch is the superficial cervical nerve. The descending branches are the supra-sternal, supra-clavicular, and supra-acromial nerves. The occipitalis minor nerve arises from the anterior division of the second cervical nerve. It forms beneatli the sterno-mastoid muscle a loop which embraces the spinal accessory nerve ; it also furnishes a branch to the spinal accessory nerve, and emerges from beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid just above the middle of the muscle. This loop acts as a guide in locating the spinal accessory nerve. The occipitalis minor nerve ascends along the upper half of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, where it pierces the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia. It is distributed to the integumen covering the occipitalis muscle, and communicates with the great occipital, the auricularis magnus, and the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. It also gives off" an auricular branch which supplies the skin of the upper and back part of the auricle. The auricularis magnus nerve, the largest of the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, arises from the anterior division of the second and third cervical nerves, and curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle immediately above the superficial cervical nerve. Here it pierces the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, ascends in relation with the upper part of the external jugular vein, and passes ol)liquely over the sterno-mastoid and beneath the platysma myoides muscle. Reaching the lobule of the ear it divides into the following branches: a facial or anterior, distributed to the skin over the parotid gland, and communicating with branches from the facial nerve through this gland, which it also supplies; an auricular or posterior, distributed to the integument on the back of the auricle, and communicating with the posterior auricular branch of the facial and the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve ; and a mastoid branch, distributed to the skin over the mastoid process, communicating with the occipitalis minor and the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve.