SURGICAL ANATOMY. 160 and the superficial cervical glands ; the lymphatic vessels from the lower part of the thyroid hody, lower part of the larynx, lower part of tlie pharynx, n})per i)art of the trachea and esophagus, and lower part of the neck ; and some of the lymphatic vessels from the axillary and infra-clavicular glands. Their efferent vessels unite to form the jugular lymphatic trunk, which empties into the right lymphatic duct on the right side, and into the thoracic duct on the left side. Tlie deep cervical lymphatic glands are more important surgically tlian the superficial glands. These deep glands hold so close a relation to tlie great vessels of the neck that an attempt to remove them when they are much enlarged may lead the operator into dangerous locations. In the most radical operation for excision of the mammary gland for carci- noma the lymphatic glands in the subclavian triangle are removed so that there will be less likelihood of recurrence of the disease. The right lymphatic duct is a short trunk about one-half of an inch in length. It receives the lymphatic vessels from the right side of the neck, right U})per extremity, right side of the thorax, and upper surface of the liver. It em])ties into the subclavian vein or the internal jugular vein at the junction of these veins. Its orifice is guarded by a double valve. The thoracic duct, which is described with the contents of the thorax, receives the lymphatic vessels from about three-fourths of the l)ody—from the left side of the head, neck, and thorax, left upper extremity, abdomen, and lower extremities. It is found only on the left side in the neck. It emerges from the upper opening of the thorax behind and internal to the apex of the left pleural sac, curves forward and outward above the first portion of the left subclavian artery and in front of tlie left vertebral artery, and empties into the left subclavian vein or the left internal jugular vein near the angle of junction of these veins. The thoracic duct near its termination may subdivide into two or more ducts, and it rarely empties into the right subclavian vein. LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. Tlie innominate artery has been ligatured twenty-four times, witli but two recoveries (Ashliurst). The operation is, for this reason, rarely performed. Liga- tion was indicated in these cases by aneurysms of the right subclavian or common carotid artery. Death was caused by .secondary licmorrliage occurring on the distal side of the ligature. To avoid tliis se(iucl, ligatures sliould be ])lace(l at the same time upon the common carotid and vertebral arteries and not upon the