SURGICAL ANATOMY. 842 between the inferior division of the oculo-niotor nerve and the ophthalmic vein. It then passes between the heads of the external rectus muscle, to terminate in the ocular surface of that muscle and supply it. * Arrangement of the Nerves of the Orbit, in the walls of the cavernous sinus and in the sphenoid fissure, is as follows : In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus there are, from above downward, the third nerve, the fourth nerve, and the ophthal- mic division of the fifth nerve ; in the inner wall is the sixth nerve, in relation with the outer side of the internal carotid artery. These nerves are separated from the cavity of the sinus by its endothelial lining. In the sphenoid fissure the lacrymal, frontal, and pathetic or fourth nerve occupy a higher plane than the other nerves, and are found in the order named from without inward. They pass above the origin of the muscles, while the other nerves and the ophthalmic vein are lower down and enter the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. The nerves lyiug on a lower plane in the sphenoid fissure are, from with- out inward, the superior division of the oculo-motor nerve, the nasal nerve, the inferior division of the oculo-motor nerve, and the abducent or sixth nerve. The o{)hthalmic vein lies to the inner side of the sixth nerve. The optic nerve enters the orbit through the optic foramen, in company with the ophthalmic artery, and passes into the eyeball about one-tenth of an inch, or 2.5 millimeters, internal to the posterior pole of that organ. It is invested by a sheath of dura mater and arachnoid, and is .surrounded by an extension of the capsule of Tenon, the orbital fat and vessels, and the rectus muscles. It is pierced and traversed by tlie vona centralis retinae and arteria centralis retinje. The External Rectus Muscle is seen along the outer wall of the orbit. It has two heads of origin : the upper head arises from the outer margin of the optic foramen, Ijeneath the superior rectus muscle, and the lower head, partly from the ligament or tendon of Zinn and partly from a small spine of bone situated on the lower margin of the sphenoid fissure. Between these two heads pass the third nerve, the nasal nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. The external rectus muscle is inserted by an exi)anded tendon into the sclerotic coat of the eye- ball about one-fourth to one-third of an inch behind the outer margin of the cornea. Action.—It abducts the cornea. Nerve Supply.—From the abducent or sixth cranial nerve. The Internal Rectus Muscle lies along the inner wall of the orbit, below the superior oblique muscle, ophthalmic artery, and nasal nerve. It arises through the ligament or tendon of Zinn from the inner margin of the optic foramen, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about one-fourth to one-third of an inch behind the inner margin of the cornea. Action.—It abducts the cornea. Nerve Supply.—From the inferior division of the third cranial nerve.