DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 75 cle, and the anterior wall of the carotid sheath ; in addition to these, at the lower part of the neck are the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the thyroid gland, which slightly overlaps it, the omo-hyoid muscle and the anterior jugular vein, which cross it. The descendens hypoglossi nerve and ansa hypoglossi also lie in front of it, and the middle sterno-mastoid artery and the superior and middle thyroid veins cross it. Behind it are the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli muscle, the pneumogastric, sympathetic, and cardiac nerves, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, at the lower part of the neck, and the inferior thyroid artery crossing behind it at the level of the cricoid cartilage. To the inner side of the artery are the trachea and esophagus, the recurretit laryngeal nerve lying between them, the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, the terminal portion of the inferior thyroid artery, the larynx, the pharynx, and the superior thyroid artery. To the outer side of the artery are the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The common carotid artery seldom gives off branches, but may, when the bifurcation is higher than usual, give off the superior thyroid artery. The bifur- cation of the artery may occur higher or lower than the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and is not infrequently situated opposite the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. Aneurysm of the common carotid artery most frequently develops near its bifurcation. Pressure upon the internal jugular vein by an aneurysm of the common carotid artery produces cyanosis or duskiness of the face and scalp, head- ache, and puffiness or edema of the face ; pressure upon the sympathetic cord causes dilatation of the pupil, and, later, contraction of the pupil; pressure upon the superior laryngeal nerve causes cough, and spasm or paralysis of one crico-thyroid muscle; and pressure upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve, spasm or paralysis of the muscles of one side of the larynx, hoarseness, and difficulty in phonation. These aneurysms at the side of the neck produce a pulsating swelling which resembles that seen in enlargement of one lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. As the thyroid gland adheres to the trachea, enlargements or tumors of that organ move upward and downward with the larynx and trachea during deglutition, whereas an aneurysm of the common carotid artery remains stationary. Ligation of the common carotid artery.—In wounds or aneurysm of this artery or one of its branches, it may require a ligature. It is tied, preferably, in the superior carotid triangle, opposite the cricoid cartilage and immediately above the point where the omo-hyoid muscle crosses its sheath. The incision is made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, cutting through the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and superficial layer of the deep fascia ; the sterno-mastoid muscle is then displaced outward, and the sheath with the descen- dens hypoglossi nerve upon it exposed. As the internal jugular vein slightly