25 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. membrane, and, if necessary, the cricoid cartilage may be divided. If a lower operation be required, it should be done when the patient has become quieted after relief of the dyspnea. The back of the neck presents, above, the external occipital protuberance and the superior curved ridges of the occipital bone ; below, the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra (vertebra prominens) and the ligamentum nuchae, extend- ing between the protuberance and the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. For an inch below the superior curved ridges of the occipital bone the thin cere- bellar fossse of the occiput are not more than one-half of an inch from the surface ; their walls are so thin at times that they may easily be penetrated with a sharp knife. About an inch below the external occipital protuberance a sharp, narrow instrument could be pushed forward, either above or below the posterior arch of the atlas, thus severing the upper end of the spinal cord and destroying life. About one or one and one-half inches on each side of the external occipital protuberance the occipital artery pierces the trapezius muscle, below the superior curved ridge, and passes over the occiput to the vertex ; it is accompanied by the great occipital nerve. The outer margin of the trapezius muscle merges with the shoulder as it passes to it, and forms the graceful outline of the neck so well exhibited in some of the pictures of noted beauties. Deep pressure in the median line near the occiput reveals the bifid spine of the second cervical vertebra. The spines of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrfB, because of their shortness and recession, are not readily felt. The spine of the sixth, and more especially of the seventh, cervical vertebra may easily be detected. The fifth cervical spine is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the upper end of the esophagus ; that of the seventh is behind the apex of the lung, which is higher in women. Congenital cervical fistulas.—A brief resume of the development of the neck is here introduced in order to explain the mode of occurrence of certain interesting and important congenital defects. The antero-lateral portion of the neck is formed largely from the branchial or visceral arches, four in number on each side, connected posteriorly with the s})inal column, but not at first uniting anteriorly with one another. These arches are separated from one another by the branchial clefts, also four in number on each side, the fourth one being below the last arch. The first or mandibular arch is concerned in the formation of the maxillae ; it is separated from the second arch by the first branchial cleft, which is the only cleft remaining in the adult. The first branchial cleft persists as the external auditory meatus, middle ear, and Eustachian tube. Irregularities in development may lead to the formation of fistulous openings, which are usually found in the vicinity of the tragus of the ear.