DISSECTION OF THE KECK. Ill stylo-hyoid ligament. At the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle may be seen the lingual artery, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament passing beneath the muscle. At the anterior border may be seen the loop of com- munication between the gustatory and hypo-glossal nerves, the branches of which can be traced to the under surface of the tongue ; and the ranine artery, emerg- ing from beneath the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle. The stylo-glossus muscle—the smallest of the three muscles which arise from the styloid process—has its origin from the front and outer side of that ])rocess near its apex and from the stylo-maxillary ligament. Its fibers pass downward and forward, and then run almost horizontally to be inserted along the side of the tongue, superficial to the hyo-glossus muscle and as far forward as the tip of that organ ; they blend with the fibers of the lingualis muscle. Beneath the lower jaw the stjdo-glossus muscle is crossed by the gustatory or lingual nerve. Nerve Supply.—From the hypo-glossal nerve. Blood Supply.—From the muscular branches of the facial arter3^ Action.—When both muscles act together they raise the back of the tongue toward the roof of the mouth. When the tongue is protruded, they draw it back into the mouth. They also draw the sides of the tongue upward, thus helping to make it transversely concave. The genio-hyo-glossus muscle, the largest of the muscles of the tongue, is triangular in shape, with its apex attached to the lower jaw, and its base to the tongue and the hyoid bone. It arises from the upper genial tubercle on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the lower jaw, immediately above the genio-hyoid muscle. The fibers diverge from their origin, the inferior fibers passing downward to be inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, the middle fibers into the side of the pharynx, and the superior fibers into the tongue from the root to the tip. In relation with the external surface of the muscle are the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, and lingualis muscles, the lingual artery, the hypo-glossal and gustatory nerves, the sublingual gland, and the submaxillary or Wharton's duct. It is separated I'rom the genio-hyo-glossus muscle of the opposite side by the fibrous septum,—the ficp- tum linguse,—which extends through the middle of the tongue. Below it is the genio-hyoid muscle. Nerve Supply.—From the hypo-glossal nerve. Blood Supply.—From the lingual artery. Action.—By the simultaneous action of all the fibers of the muscle attached to the tongue that organ is depressed and its upper surface grooved. The fibers inserted near the base of the tongue protrude it, while those attached near the tip retract it after it has been protruded. The inferior fibers aid the genio-hyoid and anterior belly of the digastric muscle in pulling the hyoid bone upward and