JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 585 The adult skull is not readily fractured, because its curves diffuse and diminish the breaking force, and, l)eing composed of three tables of different consistence, its strength and elasticity are much enhanced. Other conditions which lessen the danger of fracture of the vault of the cranium are: The mobility of the scalp proper, the rounded shape of the cranial vault, and the mobility of the head. As age advances and the bones become less porous, less' elastic, and, at the fortieth year, the sutures begin to be obliterated by ossification of the intersutural membrane the skull is more readily fractured. Either the external table or the internal table may be fractured without injury to the other table, but both tables are usually traversed b}^ the fracture. On account of its brittleness and the diffusion of the force in passing through the bone, the inner table is much more splintered than the external. In depressed fractures of the vault the inner table may not be broken, the outer table being merely driven into the diploe or one of the frontal sinus Fractures of the vault of the skull are due to direct violence. A fracture of the vault resulting from diftuse application of force, as in a fall upon the head, usually extends to the base of the skull by the shortest route, regardless of sutures or thickness of the bones traversed. This is more likely to occur if the fracture be linear. Fractures of the frontal region extend into the floor of the anterior cranial fossa, those of the parietal region into the floor of the middle cranial fossa, and those of the occipital region into the floor of the posterior cranial fossa. Fractures of the base of the skull are caused by extension of a fracture from the vault of the skull and by direct or indirect violence. Fractures of the base by direct violence have been caused by foreign bodies having been driven through the roof of the orbit, nose, or pharynx. Fractures of the base by indirect violence usually result from the body falling upon the feet, knees, or buttocks, and from the upper part of the spinal column being driven against or through the occipital bone. In blows at the root of the nose the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone may be fractured, and in a fall upon the chin the condyle of the lower jaw may be driven through the base of the skull at the middle cranial fossa. The cribriform })late of the ethmoid bone has been broken by counter-stroke by a blow in the occipital region. In fracture of the base of the skull at the anterior cranial fossa blood may enter the orbit and produce a subconjunctival ecchymosis, or blood and cerebro- spinal fluid may escape from the ]iose through the anterior nares or posterior nares and mouth. The blood escaping into the orbit is derived from ruptured menin- geal vessels, anterior or posterior ethmoid vessels, and ophthalmic artery or vein ; that entering the nose escapes from the anterior or posterior ethmoid vessels, and the vessels of the nasal mucous membrane. In fracture of the cribriform plate of