294 SURGICAL ANATOMY. The Nasal Cavities, or Fossae, two in number, are located between the base of the skull and the hard palate. They are wide below and become quite narrow ab^e, where the middle and superior turbinated bones lie near the septum, and at times in contact with it. The vertical diameter of each nasal fossa is greater than the transverse diameter; and, therefore, forceps inserted into the fossae should be opened vertically. The nasal cavities open upon the face by means of the vestibule and anterior nares, and into the naso-pharynx by means of the posterior nares. They are separated by the nasal septum. The nasal septum is formed by the crest at the junction of the nasal bones, the nasal spine of the frontal bone, the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, the cartilage of the septum, the vomer, the crest of the sphenoid bone, and by the crest situated at the line of junction of the two palatal processes of the two superior maxillse and of the two horizontal plates of the palate bones. In children up to the seventh year and in primitive races the septum is straiglit in eighty per cent, of cases ; but in the adult in seventy-six per cent, of persons it is deflected to one side, and more frequently to the left. This deflection should not be mis- taken for a bony growth of the septum. The frequency of deviation of the nasal septum is supposed to be due to the practice of always blowing the nose with the same hand. This condition, by obstructing one nasal fossa, retards breathing and impairs the resonance of the voice, which should be perfect in those who sing. Perforation of the nasal septum may occur in persons exposed to the vapor of chromic acid in the manufacture of potassium bichromate, in syphilitic indi- viduals, and in scrofulous persons, or may be a congenital condition. The roof of the nasal cavities is formed by the nasal bones, nasal spine of the frontal bone, cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, sphenoid turbinated bones, body of the sphenoid bone, alffi of the vomer, and sphenoid processes of the palate bones. The middle portion of the roof, formed b}' the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, is horizontal, its anterior portion slopes downward and forward, and its posterior portion downward and backward. A meningocele projecting through the roof of the nasal fossa into the nasal cavity has been mistaken for a polypus and removed, with a fatal result. In fracture of this portion of the base of the skull blood or cerebro-spinal fluid may escape through the nose. The middle portion of the roof of the nose is so thin that it may easily be punctured and the cranial cavity entered by slender instruments or foreign bodies introduced in the nose, either intentionally or accidentally. The floor of the nose is wider than the roof, being slightly more or less than one-half of an inch wide. It is formed by the palatal processes of the superior