583 JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. branches of the third portion of the internal maxillary artery. They are the alveolar, infra-orbital, posterior palatine, pterygo-palatine, and naso-palatine arteries, or some of their branches. The application of the actual cautery may be required to check hemorrhage. The cavity may be packed Avith gauze, and the wound in the skin is closed. The gauze is subsequently removed through the mouth. Excision of the lower jaw is performed for the removal of malignant growths of that bone. Usually but half of the bone is excised. Segments of the lower jaw are removed in extirpation of benign tumors of that bone. The incision is carried fi'om the attached margin of the lower lip down the middle of the chin to the lower margin of the jaw, thence just below and parallel with the body of the jaw to the angle, and thence upward along the postea'ior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw to the level of the lobule of the ear. In making this incision the facial artery is secured between ligatures before it is divided. The skin, superiicial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and deep fascia are divided ; the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands and Stenson's duct must be avoided. Beginning at the symphysis, the soft tissues are detached from the external surface of the bone with a periosteal elevator. The depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, buccinator, and masseter muscles are thus separated from the bone. After extraction of one of the incisor teeth the bone is divided with a small saw. The divided end of the bone is next drawn outward, and the mylo-hyoid muscle and mucous membrane of the mouth are divided close to the bone, being careful to avoid injuring the sublingual or submaxillary gland or the lingual nerve. The internal pterygoid muscle is detached from the bone with a periosteal elevator, and the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and inferior dental vessels and nerve are divided. The jaw is now depressed, to bring the coronoid process into view. This pro- cess is then divided with a chisel and a mallet, and dissected out afterward, or the tendon of the temporal muscle is severed with curved scissors. The tendon of the external pterygoid muscle is divided with scissors, or detached with a periosteal elevator. The capsu.lar ligament is divided, and, after severing some few remaining attachments, as the stylo-maxillary ligament, the bone can be removed. After bleeding has been checked the Avound is closed. The structures to be avoided in this operation are the three salivary glands, Stenson's duct, the buccal and supra-maxillary branches of the facial nerve, I'he lingual and auriculo-temporal nerves, the external carotid, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries, and the temporo-maxillary and internal maxillary veins. The