THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. 395 continued along the vessels of the choroid and especially along the venje vorticose. Its lymph escapes into Tenon's space by perforations in the sclera around the venae vorticosee. Tenon's space, situated between the sclera and Tenon's capsule, drains the peri- choroid space, and opens into the supra-vaginal space. The intervaginal lymph space is situated between the dural and pial sheaths of the optic nerve, and is subdivided into a subdural and subarachnoid space by the extension of the arachnoid mendjrane of the brain along the optic nerve. It opens into the subdural and subarachnoid spaces of the brain. The supra-vaginal lymph space is situated between the dural sheath of the optic nerve and the posterior extension of Tenon's cap^-Aile. The greater portion of the lymph of the eyeball escapes by way of the chambers of the aqueous humor, spaces of Fontana, canal of Schlemm, and ante- rior ciliary veins ; conseciuently, any obstruction in the anterior lymph channels causes increased intra-ocular tension. Such obstruction occurs in annular posterior synechia, in which the whole pupillary margin of the iris is adherent to the ante- rior surface of the capsule of the lens, and prevents the lymph of the posterior chamber, which is derived from the ciliary vessels, from entering the anterior chamber. The pressure thus produced in the posterior chamber causes the peri- pheral portion of the iris to project forward against the cornea, obliterating the filtration angle, or sinus of the anterior chamber, and preventing escape of lymph from the anterior chamber of the eyeball. In this manner the serious disease of the eye, glaucoma, which is characterized by increased intra-ocular tension, is produced. Glaucoma also develops from conditions not so readily demonstrable, as hypersecretion of lymph, and other causes of retention of lymph, in the eye- ball. In emmetropia, or normal vision, parallel rays of light or those from distant objects are brought to a focus on the retina when the eye is at rest, and divergent rays or those from near objects do not reach a focus on the retina without some exercise of the function of accommodation. Normal vision occurs in an eye whose axis, or sagittal diameter, is of the normal length, and whose media possess the proper refractive index. In hyperopia, hypermetropia, or far-sightedness, the axis, or sagittal diameter of the eye, is usually too short, although hyperopia may be due to absence of the lens, decreased convexity of the refracting surfaces of the eye, or diminished power of refraction in the refractive media of the eye. The result is that when the ciliary muscle is at rest, parallel rays of light or those from distant objects, and divergent rays or those from near objects, como in contact with the retina before being brought to a focus, forming circular diffusion of the light