188 SURGICAL ANATOMY. forward and then downward and forward along the inner side of the carotid sheath. Its upper portion is superficial, its lower portion being more deeply situated bet#een the larynx and the carotid sheath. The superior laryngeal nerve lies beneath the upper portion of the arter}^ and its external laryngeal branch runs parallel with the lower i)art of the vessel. The artery may be tied near its origin and above its hyoid branch, but is preferably ligatured between the origins of the superior laryngeal and middle sterno-mastoid branches. The patient is placed in the same position as for ligature of the external carotid artery, and an incision two inches long should be made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The center of the incision should be on a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Skin, superficial fascia, pla- tysma myoides muscle, and superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided. The sterno-mastoid muscle is drawn outward, and the superior thyroid artery seen run- ning downward along the inner side of the carotid sheath. The artery should be traced from its origin and tied above the origin of the middle sterno-mastoid artery, avoiding the superior thyroid vein. The vein which connects the facial or sub- mental vein with the anterior jugular vein and runs beneath the platysma myoides muscle parallel with the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid mu.scle should also be avoided. The needle is preferably passed away from the superior thyroid vein, which usually runs on the lower side of the artery and may form a plexus. Irregularities of the superior thyroid artery and of the other branches of the external carotid artery are not of much surgical importance. The superior thyroid artery may be double, or it may be umisually small, the other thyroid arteries being larger than normal. It may arise from the conunon carotid artery or a trunk common to it and the lingual artery, or a trunk common to tlie supe- rior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. The hyoid, superior laryngeal, and middle sterno-mastoid branches may arise from the external carotid artery. The superior laryngeal artery may be unusually large, occasionally i)assing through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage, or it may pass along tlie thyroid cartilage and tui'u inward under the lower margin of that cartilage. The crico-thyroid artery may be unusually large, and may send a branch downward over the crico-thyroid membrane to the isthmus of the thyroid body. Such an abnormal l)ranch would be divided in laryngotomy and perhaps in high tracheotomy. For this reason it is advisable to thoroughly expose the crico-thyroid membrane before incising it, as the entrance of blood into the laiynx niiglit cause broncho-pneumonia. The lingual artery is most frc(|uently ligatured ])i'cparatory to removal of the tongue. It is also tied to control hemorrhage from it or its bi-anches in injuries and advanced carcinoma of the tongue, to check the growtli of advanced carci- noma of the tongue, and in macroglo.ssia. It arises from the external carotid