18 SURGICAL ANATOMY. clavicular junction to behind the ear. Any movement of the head which draws the ear downward and forward renders the muscle prominent. It divides the sid^of the neck into the anterior and the posterior triangle. In subcutaneous section of the lower attachments of this muscle it must not be forgotten that the fossa sitpraclavicularis minor, the triangular interval between the sternal and clavicular origins, marks the position of the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein. Tlie supra-sternal fossa, termed "fonticulus gutturis " by the old writers, lies between the sternal origins of the two sterno-mastoid muscles. In beautiful necks it is, of course, filled with fat, but even then the rounded contour of the sternal attachment of this muscle is evident, though graceful withal. When the finger is deeply insinuated into the supra-sternal notch, the pulsations of the innominate artery can often be felt; those of a dilated aortic arch may also be perceived. Retraction of the tissues in the supra-sternal notch during inspiration is often seen in marked dyspnea, as in laryngeal obstruction. The sterno-clavicular joint may be readily identified at the side of the supra- sternal notch—in stout persons by movement, and by sight alone in thin individ- uals. Its upper border marks the origin of the innominate vein upon both sides, behind which, on the left side, lies the common carotid artery, and on the right side, the bifurcation of the innominate artery; still farther back is the apex of the lung. The innominate artery is relatively higher in children than in adults. The apex of the lung extends from one to two inches above the clavicle, and higher in very long necks; it is also higher in women than in men. It is covered by part of the scalenus anticus, sterno-thyroid, and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, and to the inner side of the scalenus anticus muscle it is crossed transversely by the subclavian vessels. This portion of the lung is more commonly the site of tubercular deposits, and should be examined by percussion and auscultation immediately al)ove and below the inner part of the cldvicle. The supra-clavicular fossa is the depression above the clavicle between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. The external jugular vein terminates here. It is well defined in emaciation due to wasting diseases and in old age. It marks the i)lace where the vessels and nerves pass from the neck into the axilla, and a knife thrust backward, downward, and inward through this depression would injure a number of important structures. The transverse processes of the cervical vertebnc may be felt by pressure directed inward through the upper part of the fossa. In thin persons the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle can also be felt in this space, just above and parallel to tlie clavicle. During inspiration the tension produced by the omo-hyoid muscle on the deep cervical fascia is plainly