179 LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. sterno-mastoid muscle and the carotid tubercle or anterior tubercle of the sixth cervical transverse process, which lies at the upper extremity of the groove between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles. The inferior thyroid artery may be ligatured to arrest the growth of the thyroid body in goiter, and for wounds of this body. It is more commonly liga- tured in the removal of one-half of the thyroid body (thyroidectomy). It may be tied near its origin, where it lies along the inner boi^der of the anterior scalene muscle,—i. e., between that muscle and the internal jugular vein, or to the inner side of the carotid sheath as it enters the thyroid gland.. It is seldom ligatured near its origin, where it may be secured through an incision similar to that made in ligature of the vertebral artery. To reach it just before it enters the thyroid body, where it lies on or slightly below^ the level of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, the shoulders should be elevated and the neck extended, and an incision three inches long be made along the lower portion of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides muscle are divided, avoiding the anterior external jugular vein ; the superficial layer of the deep fascia is also divided. The sterno-mastoid muscle and carotid sheath with its contents should be drawai outward, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles and thyroid body drawn inw^ard. Locate the carotid tubercle behind the carotid sheath, and the artery will be felt pulsating just below and internal to it. Next divide the prevertebral fascia. The artery should then be tied near the carotid sheath, thus avoiding injury of the recurrent laryngeal nerve; this nerve, however, is not in much danger, as in this location it lies behind and internal to the lateral lobe of the thyroid body. The inferior thyroid artery frequently divides behind the carotid sheath into two terminal branches of about equal size, which are separated by an interval of about one-fourth of an inch. Irregularities.—The inferior thyroid artery occasionally arises directly from the first portion of the subclavian artery ; it may, however, arise from the third portion near the outer border of the scalenus anticus muscle, or from the vertebral or common carotid artery. It may subdivide before it reaches the thyroid body, or it may arise as two separate arteries, one branch of it passing in front of and the other behind the carotid sheath. The artery may be small or absent. The common carotid artery is tied for aneurysm or wounds of the internal or external carotid artery or their branches, to check malignant growths, and pre- paratory to the removal of tumors. It mav be tied in an}^ part of its course in the neck, which is indicated by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the lower jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone, the portion of this line below the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage indicating the course of the common carotid artery. On the