DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 103 rior belly of the digastric, and lies in contact with the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. It arises from the middle of the outer surface of the styloid process of the temporal bone, whence it passes downward and forward to be inserted into the outer surface of the hyoid bone where the greater cornu joins the body. It lies above the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and is pierced near its insertion by the tendon of the digastric. In some cadavers the stylo-hyoid muscle is absent. Nerve Supply.—From the facial nerve. Blood Supply.—From the muscular twigs of the facial, occipital, and poste- rior auricular arteries. Action.—It raises and draws the hyoid bone backward, thus preventing the return of food into the pharynx during deglutition. The submaxillary gland, one of the three salivary glands, is situated in the submaxillary triangle and extends upward under the body of the lower jaw as far as the attachment of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It weighs about two drams. It consists of a larger superficial portion and a smaller deep portion. The superficial portion of the gland is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, infra-maxillary branches of the facial nerve, superficial layer of the deep fascia, facial vein, some lymphatic glands, and the body of the lower jaw ; it rests upon the mylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles, the facial artery, submental artery, mylo-hyoid artery and nerve, and the hypo-glossal nerve and lingual vein ; in front of it lies th^ anterior belly of the digastric muscle ; behind it is the stylo-maxillary ligament, which separates it from the parotid gland. Its deep surface contains a groove for the facial artery. The deep portion and duct of the gland (Wharton's duct), which dip under the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle, will be described. Blood Supply.—From brandies of the facial and lingual arteries. Nerve Supply.—From branches of the submaxillary ganglion, through which it receives filaments from the gustatory and chorda tympani nerves. It also receives branches from the mylo-hyoid nerve and from the sympathetic plexus around the facial artery. Dissection.—Reflect the submaxillary gland upward without dividing the facial vein, which runs over the gland, or the facial and submental arteries, which are beneath it. The submaxillary branches of the facial artery which supply the gland must be divided. This exposes a portion of the facial artery and its infra- maxillary branches, the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve, a part of the hypo-glossal nerve and lingual vein, the mylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus. and stylo-glossus muscles. The cervical portion of the facial artery and its submaxillary, submental, ascending palatine, and tonsillar branches have been described.