THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. 363 and consequently forms part of a smaller sphere than does the sclera, and hence projects further than does the latter. The student can readily prove this fact by closing his own eye and moving the loose skin of the upper lid over the globe with his finger. The cornea is part of the fibrous coat of the eye, and at its peri- phery is continuous with the sclera. Owing to the fact that the transition of the sclera into the cornea occurs first on the inner aspect of the former, the sclera seems' to overlap the cornea ; thus the margin of the cornea becomes beveled on its external aspect and the sclera on its internal aspect. This apparent overlapping being greater above and below than at the sides, the transverse diameter of the cornea slightly exceeds the vertical. It is in front of the acjueous humor, which is interposed between it and the iris and lens. • The cornea being convex, assists in bringing rays of light to a focus upon the retina. If the convexity of the cornea is excessive, the rays are brought to a focus before reaching the retina, and the person suffers from near-sightedness or myopia. If the cornea is insufficiently convex, the rays reach the retina before being collected to a focus, and the person suffers from far-sightedness or hypermetropia. When the curvature of the cornea is irregular, the rays of light are not regularly brought to a focus. The error of refraction resulting is known as astigmatism, which may also be produced by irregular refraction in the lens. The cornea consists of five layers : the anterior epithelium, the anterior limit- ing membrane (membrane of Bowman), the substance proper, the posterior limiting membrane (the membrane of Descemet), and the posterior endothelium. The anterior epithelium and posterior endothelium of the cornea serve to prevent absorption of liquid from the tears and from the anterior chamber of the eye. The opacity of the corneal tissue after death is due to imbibition of fluid into the lymph channels of the cornea. If the anterior epithelial layer, composed of the conjunctiva, is broken, and lead lotions are used, lead salts may be deposited and impair the transparency of the cornea. The substance proper (substantia propria) is composed of numerous laminae of modified connective tissue, between which are freely anastomosing lymph channels, through which it is nourished. Like the other layers of the cornea, it contains no blood-vessels. These vessels end in loops at its periphery. In interstitial kera- titis these laminae are affected, and effusion into the lymph channels causes haziness and loss of transparency of the cornea. Ulcers and wounds of the cornea, as a rule, heal readily, notwithstanding the absence of blood-vessels. Ulcers may, however, perforate the cornea. Perforating ulcers or wounds of the cornea allow the aqueous humor to escape. With the stream of the escaping aqueous humor the pupillary margin of the iris may be prolapsed through the opening in the cornea. Scars resulting from idcers or