FEMALE PERINEUM. 677 The Female Urethra is only about one and one-half inches, or four centimeters, in length, and extends from the neck of the bladder to the external urinary meatus. As in the male, the meatus is the smallest place in the urethra. The urethra is directed downward and forward in front of the anterior vaginal Avail close under the pubic arch, against which it is readily rolled by the finger in vaginal e5i:ami- nations. With the body in the erect position it is nearly vertical, and in the recumbent position nearly horizontal. It is slightly curved, with its concavity upward and forward. It is about one centimeter in diameter, but, having an inner mucous lining arranged in longitudinal folds, it may be widely dilated, thereby permitting the removal of vesical calculi through it. Coitus has been practised in it instead of the vagina. Adjacent to this mucous membrane is a thin layer of erectile and yellow elastic tissue ; *and outside of all is a thick layer of circular and longitudinal muscle-fibers, the former being external to the latter. Inguino-labial hernia is a protrusion of some part of the intra-abdominal contents through the inguinal canal of the female along the round ligament of the uterus to the labium majus. In a pudendal hernia the protruding mass reaches the labium majus by pass- ing between the vagina and the ramus of the ischium. This form is uncommon, but on that account worthy of remembrance, because it might be mistaken for abscess or hematocele or a cyst of one of the vulvo-vaginal glands. Hydrocele of the pudendum is analogous to hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis, and originates in the canal of Niick, which is in relation with the round ligament of the uterus in the inguinal canal, and is formed by the processus vagi- nalis of the peritoneum. Lacerations of the Female Perineum may occur during labor. In the simple forms the perineum is ruptured in the median line at the posterior commissure of the vulva. The structures torn in incomplete lacerations are the vaginal wall, skin, and perineal body. In such lacerations the edges of the wound are separated by tension produced by the transverse perineal, deej) transverse perineal, and levator ani muscles. If the rent is not sutured and repaired immediately, the wound heals by granulation, the floor of the pelvis is weakened, and disease and discomfort incident to prolapse of the uterus and other pelvic organs supervene. Compensation for the defect is partially provided by forward displacement of the perineal body and anus by the deep transverse perineal and levator ani muscles, if these muscles have not been ruptured. Deep lacerations extend through the sphincter ani muscles and anterior wall of the rectum, causing incontinence of feces. The perineal body, deep transverse perineal muscle, or levator ani muscle may be ruptured subcutaneously. In lacerations at the side of the vaginal orifice one of the bulbs of the vagina may be torn and, to check the persistent hemor- rhage arising therefrom, a deep suture may be required.