MALE PERINEUM. 607 of the opposite muscle in a common tendon between the corpus spongiosum and the corpora cavernosa; the anterior fibers, w-hich are the longest, pass around the corpus cavernosum, and, with the fibers of the opposite muscle, terminate in a common tendon covering the dorsal vessels of the penis. Action.—The action of the accelerator urinse muscle as a whole is to compress the bulb and to expel the last drop of urine in this part of the urethra, after the bladder has been emptied. It also assists in expelling the semen. The middle fibers, according to Krause, assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum hy compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb, and the anterior fibers assist in the same process, according to Tyrrel, by compressing the dorsal vein of the penis. The part the muscle plays in the emission of semen is involuntary. The Erector Penis Muscle [Ischio-cavemosus) covers the crus penis. It is narrower at each end than in the middle, and is situated along the lateral boundary of the urethral triangle. It arises by muscular and tendinous fibers from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium behind the crus penis, from the crus itself, and from the ischio-pubic ramus on both sides of the crus. Its fibers ascend, cover the crus penis, and terminate in a small aponeurosis which is inserted into the inner, outer, and under surfaces of the crus. Action.—The action of the erector penis muscle is to compress the crus penis and to assist in producing erection of the penis by retaiding the escape of the venous blood. The Transverse Perineal Muscle is small and lies along the base of the urethral triangle. It arises from the inner and forepart of the tuberosity of the ischium, and passes forward and inward to be inserted into the central tendon of the perineum, where it joins the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, the accelerator urinse, the sphincter ani, and the anterior fibers of the levator ani. In the operation of lateral lithotomy this muscle is divided, thus establishing a communication between the two triangles of the perineum—the urethral and the anal. It is around the lower border of this muscle that the deep layer of the superficial fascia winds to become continuous with the base of the triangular ligament. The two transverse perineal muscles have been called collectively the perineal digastric muscle. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the accelerator urinte, erector penis, and transverse perineal muscles is derived from the superficial and transverse perineal arteries. Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the accelerator urinee, erector penis, and transverse perineal muscles is derived from the muscular branches of the perineal nerve. Dissection.—Divide and reflect the transverse perineal muscle and the crus