SURGICAL ANATOMY. 48 the sheath of the subclavian vessels into the arm-pit; if situated beneath the super- ficial layer of the deep fascia in the anterior portion of the neck, it may enter the cl^st, being guided into the anterior mediastinum by the pretracheal fascia ; if it lie beneath the anterior process, or pretracheal fascia, it may extend into the posterior mediastinum. Abscesses of the neck have frequently burst into the esophagus or trachea, and even into the pleural sac; the great vessels at the side of the neck have in some instances been entered. " In one remarkable case, reported by I\Ir. Savory, not only was a considerable portion of the common carotid artery destroyed by the abscess, but a still larger portion of the internal jugular vein and a large part of the vagus nerve were also destroyed " (Treves). Mr. Jacobson (Hilton, on " Rest and Pain ") states that " communication between abscesses and the deep vessels has usually taken place beneath two of the strongest fasciae in the body—the deep cervical and the fascia lata." Prompt evacuation is indicated by the possibility that these abscesses may take one or more of the foregoing undesirable courses. Dissection.—The superficial layer of the deep fascia should be removed by making incisions similar to those made for the removal of the skin and the super- ficial fascia, being careful not to destroy the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves which pierce it. The removal of the superficial layer will expose its two processes and other underlying structures. Cervical plexus.—Before taking up the description of the muscles of the neck and its dissection proper, the origins of the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves should be studied. This plexus is formed by the communi- cation of the anterior divisions of the upper four cervical nerves, all of which communicate with the sympathetic nerve. It lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle, opposite the upper four cervical vertebrse, and rests upon the levator anguli scapulae and scalenus medius muscles. Its branches consist of a superficial and a deep set. The superficial branches, as previously described, are the auricu- laris magnus, the occipitalis minor, the superficial cervical, the supra-sternal, the supra-clavicular, and the supra-acromial, all running to the skin and subcutaneous structures. The deep branches are the phrenic, the communicantes hypoglossi, communicating, and muscular. The superficial branches alone concern us in this stage of the dissection. They emerge at the side of the neck from beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, at the level of the upper border of the tliyroid cartilage. The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, the largest muscle of the neck and its most important landmark, arises by two heads : one, round and tendinous, from the front of the upper portion of the sternum; the other, flattened, partly muscular and partly tendinous, from the inner one-third of the upper surface