DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 115 with the ranine artery of the opposite side, and on its way supplies the adjacent muscles and mucous membrane. The sublingual artery, smaller than the ranine, arises near the anterior bor- der of the hyo-glossus muscle, and runs outward and forward over the oral surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle to reach the sublingual gland. It supplies the sublin- gual gland, the mylo-hyoid muscle, the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, and the gums. It anastomoses with the opposite sublingual artery, and with the submental branch of the facial artery, after having perforated the mylo- hyoid muscle. The artery of the frenum is usually a branch of the sublingual artery. It is sometimes wounded in operating for " tongue tie." The best way to divide the lingual frenum so as to avoid wounding the vessel is to place the child upon its back in the mother's lap, and, with the head held tightly between the knees of the operator, to engage the frenum in the slot of a grooved director, by means of which the point of the tongue can be held up. The frenum is thus made tense, and at its attachment to the lower jaw is then simply nicked with a pair of blunt scissors, after which any additional separation which may be required can be done with the finger nail. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle, long and slender, arises from the inner side of the base of the styloid process, and is the longest of the three muscles arising therefrom. It passes downward and forward, and disappears between the middle and superior constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Some of its fibers join the palato- pharyngeus muscle, to be inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. The remaining fibers become connected with the fibers of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Running along its outer side is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. In order to reach the tongue, to which it is partly distributed, the nerve passes over the muscle, supplying it with twigs. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous cord which passes from the tip of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. It may be seen lying near the anterior border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and passing beneath the hyo- glossus muscle to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. It is the continuation of the styloid process; it may contain nodules of cartilage, and may be largely ossified, forming an unusually long styloid process. Dissection.—Cut off" the styloid process at its base, and reflect it downward with the attached muscles and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve,—Running along the posterior border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and crossing in front of it, is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. It curves upon the side of the neck, the convexity being directed downward and backward ; it resembles in this respect the hypo-glossal and superior laryngeal