THE LA CR YMAL APPARA TUS. 373 side of the triangle extends from the sclero-corneal junction toward the ciliary processes; and at the angle of junction of the other two sides it joins the anterior margin of the choroid. It consists of fasciculi of muscular tissue, the interstices of which are filled with similar strands of connective tissue. The muscular tissue, like all similar structure in the eyeball, is composed of involuntary muscle fibers arranged in two sets—meridional and circular. The meridional or longi- tudinal muscle fibers arise from the sclera and the sclero-corneal junction, pass backward, and are inserted into the choroid opposite the ciliary processes. The circular muscle fibers, or ring muscle of Miiller, are placed internal to the meri- dional fibers in the ciliary body, and encircle the attached margin of the iris. Blood Supply.—The ciliary muscle and ciliarv body are supplied with blood from the long posterior ciliary and anterior ciliary arteries. Nerve Supply.—The ciliary body and ciliary muscle depend upon the long and short ciliary nerves for their nerve supply, the ciliary muscle being supplied by fibers of these nerves derived from the third cranial nerve. Action.—The ciliary muscle possesses the function of accommodation, and permits variation in the degree of convexity of the lens to enable the rays of light to reach a focus on the retina. The ciliary muscle pulls upon the ciliarv j)rocesses and relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens ; lessened tension upon this liga- ment relaxes the capsule of the lens, and alloAvs the anterior surface of the lens to bulge forward. In the hyperopic or long-sighted eye, in which the antero-posterior axis of the eyeball is too long, the ciliary muscle is overworked in endeavoring to bring the rays of light from ne?r objects to a focus upon the retina; consequently, in hyperopia the ciliary muscle, and especially the ring muscle of Miiller, is hyper- trophied. After a severe illness, or frequent and long-continued periods of read- ing, this muscle is unable to perform the required amount of work, and the hyper- metropic state ensues, which should be relieved by a convex lens. As the third cranial nerve supplies the internal rectus muscle as well as the the ciliary muscle, and does not supply the external rectus muscle, convergent squint is frequently associated with hypermetropia. A properly selected convex lens removes the cause of the spasm of the internal rectus muscle, and the strabismus disappears. Dissection.—Secure a fresh eye, and with a sharp, thin-bladed knife or a pair of scissors cut the globe in half slightly anterior to the equator. Scoop out the jelly-like vitreous, leaving intact the lens and its attachments. Place the bowl- like preparation, thus produced, in a shallow tray containing dilute alcohol, and wash out the pigment with a small camel's-hair pencil. A clear posterior view of the ciliary processes will then be secured. To see them from in front anotlitr dissection should be made. The cornea may be removed by making a circular incision just anterior to the sclero-corneal junction. Four meridional incisions