283 THE LARYNX. and less mobile, being, therefore, more accessible than the part just above the sternum. Furthermore, the inferior thyroid veins, lying upon the trachea below the isthmus, the occasional presence of a thyroidea ima artery, and in infants the upper part of the thymus gland, add to the difficulties of the low operation. It is also to be remembered that the innominate artery or the left inriominate vein may cross the trachea higher than usual and might be encountered in the low opera- tion. For the performance of the operation the head is well extended and so held by an assistant that the median line of the face will be in line with the median line of the neck. A firm cylindric cushion or a large bottle is so placed under the back of the neck as to render its anterior region prominent. The parts are steadied with the fingers and thumb of one hand. The various landmarks, such as the pomum Adami and the cricoid cartilage, are recognized by palpation. The incision extends from about the lower border of the thyroid cartilage downward for two and a half inches in the median line. It is made from below upward, and divides skin and superficial fascia. The anterior jugular veins, which lie alongside of the median line, may now appear, and should be avoided hj cutting between them and drawing them aside. The two layers of the superficial layer, of the deep cervical fascia are then divided either upon a director or Avith the free hand. The interval between the flat pretracheal muscles is recognized, and the wound deep- ened by " blunt dissection " ; the director or the handle of the knife being used to slit down the soft parts in the median line until the pretracheal fascia is reached. The pretracheal fascia is incited and the tracheal rings are fully exposed, the director or handle of the knee being again used in order to avoid hemorrhage. The isthmus of the thyroid gland is depressed, if need be, to gain additional space. Hemorrhage having been checked and the tracheal rings fully exposed, the trachea is held steady with a tenaculum and a sharp narrow-bladed knife, with its cutting edge directed upward, is thrust into the windpipe and two or three rings divided from below upward. The edges of the tracheal wound are then held apart with a dilator, hooks, or a loop of silk passed through each side. False membrane, if present, is withdrawn, and the tracheal tube is inserted. After opening the Avindpipe it will usually be noticed that respiration is much slower, owing to the fact that plenty of air is admitted ; whereas prior to the operation the breathing was hurried, on account of the obstruction. It is important during the operation that the trachea be kept exactly in the median line, otherwise it may be opened on one side, or, from being carelessly drawn to one side by the assistant, it may be missed altogether, and the operator, as has occurred, may expose the vertebral column before the error is recognized.