SURGICAL ANATOMY. 148 and left superior intercostal veins. The left superior intercostal vein empties into the loft innominate vein, and the right into the vena azygos major or the right innominate vein. The Axillary or Brachial Plexus.—The axillary or brachial plexus of nerves will be seen at the side of the neck, emerging from between the anterior and middle scalene muscles ; it is formed by the union of the anterior branches of the lower four cervical nerves and by the greater portion of the anterior branch of the first thoracic nerve. A small branch from the anterior division of the fourth cervical and another from the second thoracic nerve usually enter the plexus. These branches form the cords of the plexus, from which are given off the branches that supply the upper extremity. The nerves in the neck are arranged as follows: the anterior branches of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves unite beyond the outer l)order of the anterior scalene muscle to form an upper trunk ; the anterior branch of the seventh cervical nerve remains distinct as the middle trunk ; the anterior branches of the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves unite between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles to form the lower trunk. The uj)per and middle trunks run above and parallel with the subclavian artery, but on a posterior plane, while the lower trunk passes behind the artery. The three trunks accompany the artery between the clavicle and first rib on their way to the axilla. These three trunks separate into anterior and poste- rior divisions, the anterior divisions of the upper and middle trunks forming the outer cord, that of tlie lower trunk continuing as the inner cord, and all the posterior divisions uniting to form the posterior cord. (For a description of the plexus within tlie axilla see Dissection of Axilla.) The branches of the axillary or brachial plexus are divided into two sets: those given off above the clavicle and those arising below that bone. The branches arising above the clavicle are the nerves to the subclavius, rhomboidei, scaleni, and longus colli muscles, tlie posterior or long thoracic nerve (the external respiratory nerve of Bell), communicating, and supra-scapular nerves. The nerve to the subclavius muscle arises from tlie trunk foi'med by tlie fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and passes downward over the third portion of the subclavian arterN' to the under surface of the subclavius muscle. It is fre(]uently connected with the phrenic nerve at tlie lower part of the neck by a filament which passes in front of the subclavian vein. The nerve to the rhomboidei muscles arises from the fifth cervical nerve,