2S2 SURGICAL ANATOMY. crico-tliyroid arteries and the true vocal cords are avoided, and if the knife is directed downward and backward, tlie vocal cords are in less danger. ^xcision of the Larynx is sometimes performed for removal of malignant disease of that organ ; but the results of the operation are so discouraging that a palliative tracheotomy is usually preferred. The Trachea is directly continuous with the lower portion of the larynx, so that the larynx appears to be the upper extremity of the trachea modified for the performance of certain special functions. The trachea varies between four and one-half and five inches in length and three-fourths of an inch and one inch in width. On transverse section it is shaped like a bar horseshoe, the indentation being posteriorly for the accommodation of the esophagus. The trachea is com- posed of cartilaginous rings, which are connected by fibrous membrane. The rings are horseshoe-shaped, with the open end posteriorly ; this interval is filled by the fibro-elastic membrane, which yields to pressure of bodies passing through the esophagus, thus providing additional space during deglutition. The trachea con- tains from sixteen to twenty of these rings, seven or eight of which are above the upper margin of the sternum. When the head and neck are in the long axis of the body, about two inches of the trachea are above the sternum, and by full extension of the head and neck this distance may be increased to three inches. The trachea is quite superficial at its upper exti'emity, but rapidly becomes deeply situated as it descends; this is one of the reasons for preferring high tracheotomy. Relations of the Cervical Portion of the Trachea.—In front are the skin ; the superficial fascia ; the superficial layer of the deep fascia, which is here composed of two layers; a communicating branch between the anterior jugular veins, situated just above the sternum ; the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mus- cles ; the isthmvis of the thyroid body ; the inferior thyroid veins or thyroid plexus of veins ; occasionally, the thymus gland or the remains of that gland ; the pre- tracheal fascia, and the tliyroidea ima artery when present. Occasionally, a high innominate artery or left innominate vein may be in front of the trachea at the root of the neck. Behind the cervical portion of the trachea i^ the esophagus. On each side of it are the lateral lobes of the thyroid body, the recurrent laryn- geal nerves, the terminal portions of the inferior thyroid arteries, and the carotid sheaths inclosing the common carotid arteries, internal jugular veins, and pneumo- gastric nerves. The trachea will be more completely described under the section on the Chest. Tracheotomy.—The windpipe may be opened either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid gland ; the former procedure being known as high, the latter as low, tracheotomy. High tracheotomy is the easier of the two operations, because the first part of the trachea is less deeply placed and is somewhat larger