THE LARYNX. 265 enlargement of the thj^roid body, malignant disease of the esophagus, and cicatrices at the apex of the right pleura, as in phthisis. Paralysis of the Left Side of the Larynx may be caused by pressure upon the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, produced by aneurysm of the arch of the aorta and lower portion of the left common carotid artery, malignant disease of the esophagus, and enlargement of the thyroid body. The left side of the larynx is more frequently paralyzed than the right; this is explained by the longer course of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and by i+s relation with the arch of the aorta, which is more commonly affected by aneurysm than the first portion—the right subclavian artery. Moderate pressure upon one of the recurrent laryngeal nerves causes spasm of the muscles of one side of the Lirynx, dyspnea, and change of voice ; greater pressure causes paralysis and change of voice. Both nerves may be paralyzed by a lesion of the medulla oblongata, as in labio-glosso-pharyngeal par- alysis or disseminated sclerosis, or by pressure from a goiter or malignant growth of the esophagus. In bilateral paralysis the true vocal cords are immovable, and the rima glottidis is in the position assumed in quiet breathing. Blood Supply op the Larynx.—From the superior larjaigeal and inferior laryngeal arteries, and some twigs from the dorsalis linguae artery, which supply the epiglottis. The Superior Laryngeal Artery is a branch of the superior thyroid artery, and pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane with the internal laryngeal nerve. It runs downward and backward with that nerve to anastomose with the inferior laryngeal artery. The Inferior Laryngeal Artery is derived from the inferior thyroid arterj^, and accompanies the terminal portion of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The Veins of the Larynx.—The superior laryngeal veins empty into the superior thyroid veins, and the inferior laryngeal veins into the inferior thyroid veins. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Larynx terminate in the deep cervical chain of lymphatic glands. The lymphatics from the upper or supra-rimal portion of the larynx pass through the thyro-hyoid membrane with the superior laryngeal vessels, and join the superior set of deep cervical glands near the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. The lymphatics from the lower or infra-rimal portion of the larynx pierce the crico-thyroid membrane, join the prelaryngeal gland situ- ated upon that membrane, and pass thence to some lateral laryngeal glands situ- ated between the lower portion of the larynx and the lateral lobes of the thyroid body. The efferent vessels from the lateral or inferior laryngeal glands terminate in the inferior set of deep cervical glands. Dissection.—Remove the muscles from one side of the larynx—viz., the