648 SURGICAL ANATOMY. vaginated and forms the mediadinum testis. It sends off centripetally directed pro- cesses, called trabeculx, which separate the interior of the testicle into compartments, within which lie the lohules of the testicle. The tunica albuginea is lined by the tunica vascvlnsa, which is chiefly composed of a plexus of blood-vessels. These lobules of the testicle are composed of the convoluted seminiferous tubules (tubuli seminiferi), from the epithelium of which the spermatozoa are formed. These tubules end in straight tubes {yasa recta) in the back part of the testicle, where the apices of the lobules converge. The straight tubes inosculate in the form of a net- work at the back of the organ, forming the rete testis, from the up})er part of which emerge a series of tubes, called vasa cfferentia; the tubules next become convoluted over the top of the testis, and are known as the coni vasculosi; the tubules of the coni vasculosi end in an arched collecting tubule surmounting them, and called the tube of tlie epididymis; the entire mass of vasa efferentia, coni vasculosi, and collecting tube forming the globus major, or head of the epididymis. The tube of the epididymis becomes much convoluted, is about fifteen feet long, descends behind the testis, and forms the body and tail of the epididymis. Behind the lower end of the testis it doubles upon itself in the globus minor, and becomes the vas deferens, which as- cends back of the epididymis to become part of the spermatic cord. From the tube, where it forms the globus minor, and quite near the beginning of the vas deferens, are given off one or more offshoots, ending in blind extremities, called vasa aberrantia. The testicle is not fully developed until puberty, and it retains its functional activity well into advanced life. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the testicle is derived from the spermatic artery. Its veins empty into the pampiniform plexus, the veins of which unite to form the spermatic vein. Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the testicles is derived from the spermatic ])lexus, which is indirectly derived from the solar jilexus and from tlie hypogastric plexus, through the sympathetic nerves which follow the artery of the vas deferens. Acute epididymitis is usually a com|)lication of gonorulica, and chronic epididymitis is evidence of constitutional di.sease, as sy])hilis or tuberculosis. Acute orchitis is inflammation of the testicle. It is signalized by a dull, sickening pain, produced by pi'cssure of the nerves against the inelastic tunica albuginea which retards swelling of the oi'gan. Chronic orchitis is presumptive evidence of some constitutional disease, generally cither syphilis or tuberculosis. Fungus is the term a])i)lied to a ])apill<)niat()us growth of granulations project- ing through a perforation in the tunica albuginea in suppuration of the testicle. It takes this form because of the unyielding character of the tunica albuginea.