SURGICAL ANATOMY. 590 of the neck, and tying it to tlie opposite knee. When the subject has been fixed upon the table in tlie manner directed, it will be impossible for the body to slip out of position. The dissection of this part can not be successfully carried out unless the cadaver be placed in tlie lithotomy position, as just described. The scrotum is raised and held forward by means of hooks. Surface Anatomy.—A study of the surface exposed shows the skin of the perineum to be dark in color and covered with short, crisp hairs, which should be shaved before proceeding further. The surface will be seen to be slightly convex in the middle line, owing to the prominence caused l)v the bulb and the for- ward continuation of the corpus spongiosum, through both of which the urethra passes. The bony prominences felt distinctly are : Anteriorly, the bodies of the pubic bones and the pubic arch; posteriorly, the tip of the coccyx; laterally, the descending rami of the pubes, the ascending rami and the tuberosities of the ischia. The perineal raphe is a j)igmented ridge in the skin, and extends from the anterior margin of the anus forward along the middle line of tlie perineum to the scroto-perineal junction, and is continuous with the median raphe of the scrotum. The median raphe is the line of safety of the perineum—that part •where the blood-vessels are fewest. AVhen practicable, in operations, incisions are made through this line. The central tendon of the perineum or perineal center is in the line of the perineal raphe midway between the center of the anus and the line of junction of the scrotum with the perineum. At the perineal center, which is at the center of the base of the triangular ligament of the perineum, the two transversi perinei, the accelerator urina?, and the sphincter ani muscles, and some of the anterior fibers of the levator ani muscle meet in a common tendon which is blended with the triangular ligament in this location. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum lies immediately above or anterior to this ])oint, and the artery of the bulb runs just anterior to a line from the tuberosity of (he ischium to the perineal center. When a knife is introduced at the perineal center and pushed upward and slightly backward, it will enter the membranous portion of the urethra. The perineal raphe and the perineal center are important landmarks in all operations performed in this region. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum is comparatively small in the child (Bellamy) and large in advanced life ; hence there is danger of wounding it in lateral pei'incal lithotomy in old men. The white line of the anus is situated at the margin of the anus, at the junc- tion of the skin and nnu'ous nu"ml)rane, and is a guide to the surgeon in