213 THE MOUTH. The operation which is frequently performed upon the upper Hp is for cor- rection of harelip which occurs upon one side, opposite the interval between the canine and lateral incisor teeth and not in the median line, because the central portion of the lip with the premaxillary bone is formed by the fronto-nasal process of the fetus, whereas each lateral portion of the upper lip develops from the maxillary process of the superior visceral arch. The lower lip is rarely operated upon except for extirpation of epitheliomata. These operations leave a V-shaped wound, which is closed by pins or sutures. The arteries divided are the superior coronary or inferior coronary arteries. During the operation hemorrhage may be checked by an assistant grasping the lip at the angles of the mouth, between the thumbs and index fingers. In closing the -wound the arteries are occluded by pressure of one of the pins or sutures. The pin or suture is carried through the tissues of the lip to the mucous membrane and under the artery, then under the artery at the opposite side of the wound, and outward through the tissues of the lip. The lower lip is occasionally the site of nevus or hypertrophy. Neurotic edema of the lower lip, a condition seldom seen, and for which operation is of no avail, must not be mistaken for hypertrophy of the lower lip. The Cheeks are composed of five layers: the skin, the superficial fascia (which contains the facial vessels and some branches of the facial and trifacial nerves), the bucco-pharyngeal fascia, the buccinator muscle, the submucous areolar tissues, and the mucous membrane. The bucco-pharyngeal fascia covers the buccinator muscle, and is continued backward over the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. The submucous areolar tissue contains the buccal glands, which resemble the labial glands. Two or three glands larger than the others are situated between the buccinator muscle and its fascial covering. They are called molar glands, and their ducts open into the ves- tibule of the mouth opposite the last molar tooth. Opposite the crown of the second molar tooth of the upper jaw is the papilla, which marks the orifice of Stenson's duct. The Mouth Proper is bounded in front and at the sides by the teeth and gums. Its roof is formed by the hard and the soft palate, and its floor by the mucous membrane of the mouth, a large portion of the tongue, and the mylo- hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles. Behind, it opens into the pharynx at the isthmus of the fauces. When the mouth is closed, the tongue lies in contact with the palate and almost fills the mouth proper. The Teeth in the human subject appear as two sets: The first or temporary set is present in children, and numbers ten in each jaw—viz., four incisors, two canines, and four molars. The central incisors are the first to pierce the gum, and make their appearance at the seventh month. The lateral incisors soon follow, the last