THE NOSE. 285 guarded internally by short stiff hairs, or vibrissse, which sift small bodies out of the inhaled air. The anterior nares open into the vestibule of the nose, which is the portion of the nasal cavities within the cartilaginous portion of the nose proper. As the base of the nose is in a slightly lower plane than the floor of the nasal fosste, the base of the nose should be elevated with the speculum in making an examination of the nasal cavities. The walls of the nose proper are formed above by the nasal bones, the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones; and, below, by the lateral cartilages of the nose. The skin is loosely adherent to the upper part of the nose, but is closely attached over the alse and lobule. It contains sebaceous glands, which are espe- cially numerous at the lower part of the nose. Therefore, acne and comedones are common in this location. Acne, or pimples, and other inflammatory affections upon the alae and lobule of the nose are painful on account of the density of the tissues, which prevents swelling and causes increased pressure on the nerves. The skin of the nose is also commonly affected by acne rosacea and lupus, especially lupus erythematosus, which develops upon the nose, ears, and face more frequently than on other portions of the body. Rodent ulcer, another affection which has a predilection for the nose, frequently commences in the crease between the cheek and the ala of the nose. This is a not uncommon site for epithelioma. Blood Supply.—The nose proper is supplied by the nasal, angular, infra- orbital, lateral nasal, and superior coronary arteries. The numerous and freely anastomosing vessels of the exterior of the nose communicate with those in the mucous membrane ; hence it happens that in many cases of inflammatory disease of the nasal mucosa there is congestion of the cutaneous vessels. On account of its free blood supply, the skin of the nose offers a good field for plastic operations. Restoration of the nose by a plastic operation is known as rhinoplasty. The flap may be derived from the forehead, as in the Indian method, or from the inside of the arm, as in the Tagliacotian method. The flaps may also be taken from the cheeks, or the flaps from the cheeks may be placed with their cutaneous surface inward and covered with a flap from the forehead. In the nose, as in the scalp, the free blood supply prevents sloughing of portions of the organ almost cu^t away and then reposited, and small scars are formed in the repair of wounds. Nerve Supply.—The nose proper is supplied by the nasal, infra-trochlear, and infra-orbital nerves. The muscles of the nose proper, which have been considered witli the description of the face, are supplied by the facial nerve. The veins of the nose proper empty into the ophthalmic and facial veins. There is a network of rather large anastomosing veins in the tip of the nose.