154 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Behind the anterior scalene muscle are the pleura, the subclavian and superior intercostal arteries, the nerves forming the axillary plexus of nerves, and the nhdille scalene muscle. Nervk Supply.—From the anterior })rimary branches of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical nerves. Action.—Tlie anterior scalene muscle, when acting from its points of origin, will raise the first rib ; but if the ril) be fixed, the muscle acting from below will flex the lower cervical vertebr;e, at tlie same time slightly rotating these vertebrne. The middle scalene muscle, the largest, as well as the longest, of the three scalene muscles, arises from the po.sterior tul)erek's of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebra?, and is inserted into the upper surface of the first rib, behind the groove for the subclavian artery. It is separated from the anterior scalene mu.scle by the subclavian artery and the nerves forming the axillary plexus. Passing through its substance is the posterior or long thoracic nerve (the external respiratory nerve of Bell). It is in relation, in front, with the cervical and brachial plexuses of nerves, the subclavian artery, the anterior scalene, orao-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles, and the clavicle ; along its outer border, with the levator anguli scapuliie and posterior scalene muscles ; behind, witli a part of the posterior scalene and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. Nerve Supply.—From the posterior primary branches of the cervical nerves. Action.—When acting from above, the middle scalene muscle elevates the first rib ; with the rib fixed, it laterally flexes the cervical portion of the spinal column. The posterior scalene muscle, the smallest and deepest of the three scaleni, arises from tlie posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower two or three cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the outer surface of the second rib behind the origin of the serratus magnus muscle. It is sometimes blended with the middle scalene muscle. Nerve Supply.—From the lower three cervical nerves. Action.—It produces lateral cervical flexion when acting from below, and raises the second rib when acting from above. The scaleni are accessory muscles of respiration ; this can be demonstrated by placing the fingers over them while taking a full breath, when they will be felt contracting. The scalene tubercle, or the tubercle on the first rib, to which the anterior .scalene muscle is attached, is an important guide in locating the outer edge of the muscle and the third portion of the subclavian artery. Immediately to the outer side of the tubercle the subclavian artery can be compressed against the first rib. The position of the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalene muscle, and the relation which the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid muscle holds to the