MALE PERINEUM. 595 skin in one large flap, and not to make a number of incisions, as is usually advised. Two incisions, cutting only throvagh the skin, are to be made; each incision commences a short distance above the line of junction of the scrotum with the perineum, and is carried along the descending ramus of the pubes downward and outward, external to the tuberosity of the ischium, and meets the other incision posteriorly a short distance behind the tip of the coccyx. The flap thus marked out is reflected from behind forward, and should include the skin of the posterior one-third of the scrotum. Great care is necessary in removing that portion of the skin surrounding the anus, in order to preserve the external sphincter ani muscle, some of the fibers of which are inserted into the skin. The Skin in the region of the perineum is thin and loosely connected with the subjacent parts, and hence blows in this location are attended by early and extensive ecchymosis. It is well supplied with blood vessels and nerves. The Superficial Fascia of the entire perineum should be studied before the student begins the dissection of the individual triangles. Near the anus the superficial fascia contains considerable fat, which extends deeply upward upon each side of the rectum in the shape of a soft, elastic pad, which permits disten- tion .of the lower part of the rectum. Anteriorly or toward the scrotum, the fat diminishes in quantity, disappearing entirely in the scrotum, where it is replaced by the involuntary muscular fibers of the dartos. The superficial fascia covering the urethral triangle consists of two layers—a superficial and a deep layer. The superficial layer contains more or less fat, and is continuous with the same layer of the superficial fascia of the scrotum and thighs and with the superficial fascia of the anal triangle. The deep layer of the superficial fascia, or fascia of Colles, is more membranous than the superficial layer, and has the same shape as the urethral triangle, which it covers. It is attached posteriorly to the lower edge or the base of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and winds around the posterior border of the transverse perineal muscles. It is attached on each side to the rami of the pubes and ischium, and for practical purposes is best described as being continuous with the deep fascia of the thighs at this point. Anteriorly, it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum, which represents the superficial fascia of that region. It forms the immediate covering for the muscles of the urethral triangle or perineum proper. In the anal triangle the superficial fascia is composed of but one hiyer—the adipose or superficial la3'er. By following the superficial fascia laterally from the a;ius, it will be seen to change from a pliant pad in the ischio-rectal fossa to a dense, tough layer over the tuber ischii. In this last region the fat lobules are separated by fibrous septa which connect the skin with the underlying bony