THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 407 The veins accompany the corresponding arteries and empty into the temporal, internal maxillar}^ and posterior auricular veins. Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the external 'auditory meatus is derived from branches of the auriculo-temporal, the auricularis magnus, and the ■ auricular branch of the vagus nerve. Interesting reflex disturbances are at times caused by the presence of foreign bodies, wax, or s})ecula through irritation reflected along the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve and referred to the parts supplied by the parent trunk; coughing, faintness, and nausea and vomiting may be induced in this manner. Sneezing is also produced by the pres- ence of foreign bodies or specula in the external auditory meatus. The irritation is reflected probably along the auriculo-temporal nerve to the Gasserian ganglion or other centers of the fifth nerve, and thence referred to the nose through branches of the superior maxillary nerve. Cough produced by irritation reflected from the ear is termed ear cough. Earache associated with toothache in the upper teeth may be explained in the same manner. Earache frequently is associated with toothache in the lower teeth and disease of the tongue; the pain in the ear is due probably to irritation reflected along the inferior dental nerve and lingual nerve, and referred to the ear through the auriculo-temporal, the other sensory branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The lymphatics of the external auditory meatus follow the veins, and terminate in the parotid and posterior auricular lymphatic glands. Dissection.—The tympanum is to be opened with a chisel by the removal of its bony roof (tegmen tympani) ; the opening is made to the outer side of the elevation produced by the superior semicircular canal, and is enlarged carefully, uncovering also the mastoid antrum and the internal auditory meatus. THE MIDDLE EAR. The Middle Ear, or Tympanum, is a small, irregular air chamber, situated in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and lined with mucous membrane ; it is interposed between the external auditory meatus and the internal ear. Its antero-posterior length measures about twelve millimeters, or one-half of an inch ; its width is from two millimeters to four millimeters, or from one-twelfth to one- sixth of an inch, and it is narrowest opposite the center or umbilicus of the tympanic membrane Avhich is opposite the promontory ; vertically it is about thirteen millimeters, or somewhat more than half an inch, in depth ; this last measurement includes the recessus epitympanicus, or attic. The attic, or recessus epitympanicus, is the highest portion of the tympanic cavity. It is situated above the level of the membrana tympani.