132 SURGICAL AXAT03IY. vein lies below the artery, and on a plane anterior to it. Above and to the outer side of this portion of the artery are the three cervical trunks of the axillary or brachial plexus of nerves and the omo-hyoid muscle. The upper trunk runs so close to and so nearly parallel with the artery that it may be mistaken for it and tied, the surgeon being misled by the pulsation communicated to the nerve. Behind the artery are the middle scalene muscle and the lower cervical trunk of the brachial plexus. Below this portion of the artery is the first rib. The third portion of the subclavian artery, as a rule, gives off no branches, but occasionally gives origin to the posterior scapular artery. Variations of the subclavian artery.—The right subclavian artery may arise as a separate trunk from the arch of the aorta. It may pass in front of or through the fibers of the anterior scalene muscle, and ascend as high as one and one-half inches above the clavicle. In some cases the subclavian vein passes with the artery behind the anterior scalene muscle. Ligation of the third portion of the subclavian artery.—The third portion is the point of election for ligation of the subclavian artery ; in this portion it is most superficial, is covered by fewer important structures, and, as a rule, gives off no branches; the posterior scapular artery occasionally arises from it. AVhen performing this ligation the patient should be placed in the supine position, with a pillow beneath the upper part of the back, and the shoulder depressed. The in- cision is made parallel with the upper border of the clavicle, should be three or four inches in lengtli, and commence at the outer border of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The vessel is brought nearer the surface by carry- ing the arm to the side and depressing the shoulder, thus diminishing the depth of the triangle through which the artery passes. The relation of the supra-scapu- lar vessels to the third portion of the subclavian artery is so changed when the arm is well drawn down that it is not endangered in the ligation. The following structures are divided : the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma myoides muscle, some of the clavicular branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, the super- ficial layer of the deep fascia, and the posterior of its two processes (prevertebral fascia). The external jugular vein, with the veins emptying into it, which frequently form a plexus above and in front of the subclavian artery between the two layers of the deep fascia (superficial and prevertebral), should be pushed aside; if this is not feasible, they may be tied and severed between ligatures. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle should next be exposed by dividing the connective tissue at the bottom of the wound ; the operator then searches for the upper cervical trunk of the axillary or brachial plexus of nerves and the outer border of the anterior scalene muscle, .along which the finger is passed until the tubercle on the first rib is reached, provided the vessel is not felt pulsating before the finger reaches