SURGICAL ANATOMY. 108 Action.—It raises and advances the liyoid bone ; when the mouth is closed, acting in the reverse direction, it assists in depressing the lower jaw and in opening ^le mouth. It may be inseparable from the genio-hyoid muscle of tlie other side. Dissection.—The lower jaw sliould be sawed through at two jioints—viz., inmiediately in advance of the angle and at the symphysis; the intervening por- tion, carrying with it the nuicous membrane of the mouth, should l)e displaced upward, and fastened with hooks or with a stitch. The tongue .should next be drawn out of the mouth, with its tip fastened to the no.se, and the hyoid bone drawn downward and also fixed l)y means of hooks, thus putting tlic nmscular fibers of the tongue on the stretch. All the ft\t and connective ti.ssue having been removed, the following structures should be carefull}' examined : The hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, the lingual vein, the hypo-glossal nerve, the gustatory or lingual nerve, the submaxillary ganglion, Wharton's duct, the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, the sublingual gland, the ranine and sublingual arteries. The hyo-glossus is a thin, flat, square-shaped muscle, arising from the side of the body of the hyoid bone and from its greater and lesser cornua. It is inserted into the posterior half of the side of the tongue between the stylo-glossus and lingualis muscles. Its fibers.ascend almost perpendicularly from their origin to their insertion, and mingle with the fibers of the palato-glossus and stvlo-glos.sus muscles. The fibers arising from the body of the hyoid bone, termed the basio- glossui<, })ass upward and l)ackward, and overlap those which ai'ise from the greater cornu, termed the kerato-glossus, which are directed obliquely forward. Those fibers Avhich arise from the les.ser cornu are termed the chondro-glossvs, and are separated from the remainder of the muscle by a few fibers of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle; they are covered by the fibers arising from the body of the hyoid bone. Nerve Supply.—From the hyi)o-glossal nerve. Blood Supply.—From the lingual artery. Action.—It draws the side of the tongue downward, and when the tongue is I)rotruded it draws it back into the mouth. Relations of the Hyo-glossus Muscle.—Upon the outer surface of the nuiscle are the hypo-glossal nerve and the small branch which ascends to the stylo- glossus muscle, the gustatory or lingual nerve, the loop of communication between the gustatory and hyo-glossal nerves, tlie .submaxillary ganglion, tlie sul)maxillary gland, Wharton's duct, the hyoid branch of the lingual artery, the lingual vein, the sublingual gland, the po.sterior belly of the digastric, the .stylo-hyoid, stylo-glossus, and myo-hyoid muscles. Its deep surface is in contact with the genio-hyo-glossus, lingualis, middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx, part of the origin of the superior constrictor muscle, the lingual artery, the glosso-i)havyngeal nerve, and the