31 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. cate layer of laminated tissue. Between these two layers are the platysma myoides muscle, the external, anterior, and posterior jugular veins, the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, and the infra-maxillary branch of the cervico-facial division of the facial nerve. The fat in the superficial fascia above the hyoid bone may be extensively developed and produce the condition known as " double chin." Dissection.—The superficial layer of the superficial fascia should be removed in the manner practised in reflecting the skin. This dissection exposes the platysma myoides muscle. The platysma myoides muscle (the superficial cervical), a broad, thin muscle, lies immediately beneath the skin and the superficial layer of the sviperficial fascia ; it covers the front and side of the neck, extending from the summit of the shoulder and front of flie chest to the face. This muscle is a member of the pan- niculus carnosus group. It arises from the deep fascia covering the pectoralis major, deltoid, and trapezius muscles, and ascends obliquely forward along the side of the neck, for insertion into the lower border of the lower jaw, the superficial fascia of the cheek, the muscles at the angle of the mouth, and the integument of the chin. The anterior fibers cross those of the opposite side just below the symphysis of the lower jaw, and are inserted into the integument of the chin; the middle fibers are attached to the lower border of the lower jaw ; the posterior fibers are prolonged over the masseter muscle, and are inserted into the super- ficial fascia of the cheek and the muscles at the angle of the mouth. Those fibers passing transversely to the angle of the mouth constitute the risorius muscle. Nerve Supply.—From th3 infra-maxillary branch of the cervico-facial divi- sion of the facial and the superficial cervical nerves. Blood Supply.—From the vessels ramifying in the superficial fascia of the neck. Action.—It draws the loAver lip downward and outward by contraction of its upper fibers; when all the fibers are contracted, however, the skin and superficial fascia of the neck between the clavicle and lower jaw are raised, being made taut between these two bones ; it also helps to depress the lower jaw, or, if the jaw be fixed, assists the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle in flexion and rotation of the head toward its own side. The anterior edge of the muscle is distinctly visible in emaciated and aged persons, forming, with the platysma of the opposite side, two divergent folds descending from a little below the chin. As the muscle dips into a depression above the clavicle,' by elevation of skin and fascice at the root of the neck, it relieves pressure upon the veins and favors the return circulation. Injuries of the neck, with destruction of considerable portions of the integu- ment and platysma, as in burns, are usually followed by deformity from cicatricial contraction. Pus in the loose tissues under the platysma may burrow extensively,