638 SURGICAL ANATOMY. of infiltration with inflammatory exudate which decreases its elasticity. It therefore is submitted to great tension, and checks elongation of the coi-pora cavernosa, which become bowed, occupying the relation to the spongy body of a bow to its string. This condition also endangers the integrity of the mucous lining and submucous tissue of the urethra which may rupture and cause hemor- rhage and additional inflammatory action and exudation. Stricture consists in a narrowing of the caliber of part of the urethral canal, and is divisible into two varieties, spasmodic and organic. Spasmodic stricture is chiefly due to si)asm of the compressor urethr;e muscl(>, and there- fore occurs in the membranous urethra. It is fre(|uently encountered in the passage of sounds, catheters, and bougies. It also arises at times from internal causes, generally some form of nervous irritation. It has alread}^ Ijeen shown that the urethral canal is rifled, thus twisting the urinary stream. A stricture causes crossed streams in the canal, which often emerge in two or more jets, called sprinkliiu/. Sprinkling is an inconstant symptom of spasmodic stricture because its cause is intermittent. Organic stricture is due either to a contracting scar of the urethral wall, or to plastic infiltration and thickening of the walls, with resulting narrowing of the canal. The sprinkling- in these conditions is necessarily constant. The stream has diminished force, though the expulsive efforts are increased. Just behind these strictures there are freciuentlj" small ulcers or areas of catarrhal inflannnation Avhich give rise to a slight urethral discharge ("morning drop"), most noticeable after rising, because of the night's accumulation during abstinence from micturition. Phimosis is a common condition among male children, in which the pre- })utial orifice is so narrowed that the glans ])enis can not be uncovered. In circumcision, the operation for the relief of ])himosis, the prepuce is drawn well forward and a sutficient ])ortion of the redundant prepuce removed, the glans penis being protected \)y a ])air of circumcision f()rce})S held between the aj)ex of the glans and the line of incision. The nuicous membrane is tlien divided from the preputial orifice to the neck of the penis and trimmed so that it can be accur- ately approximated to the remainder of the i)repuce. The two surfaces are then sutured and a dressing is a])})lie(l. Paraphimosis is the condition in which a narrow foreskin lias been drawn behind the corona, with resulting edema of the i)repuce and enlargement of tlie glans from interference witli the return circulatioji. It requires promi)t relief to prevent strangulation of the jiarts beyond it and necrosis of the pre])uce. Gradual compression of the glans slowly forces the blood backward through the annular constriction at tlie neck of the jicnis, and tlic pi'epuce can l)e di-awn foi'ward. This failing, the prej)uce may be divided longitudinally, or a series of incisions may be