573 JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The Joints of the Skull, excepting the temporo-nicaxillary articulation and the articulations between the skull and the spinal column, are in the form of sutures which afford immoliility and firmness with elasticity. The Sutures of the Skull may be mistaken for fractures, and the Wormian bones, which are situated in the lines of the sutures, may be mistaken for frag- ments outlined by fractures. The sagittal suture is situated in the median line of the vault of the cranium, and extends from the bregma to the lambda. The bregma is situated at the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures, and at the point where a line, drawn perpendicular to Reid's base line at the preauricular fossa, crosses the median line of the cranial vault. The lambda is situated at the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutui'es, and about two and three-fourth inches, or seven centimeters, above the external occipital protuberance. The coronal suture extends from the bregma downward, and slightly forward, toward the junction of the zygoma with the malar bone. The lambdoid suture is situated at about the upper two-thirds of a line drawn from the lambda to the apex of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Additional sutures not commonly present may exist in the vault of the cranium and be mistaken for fractures. These are the frontal suture, which extends forward between the halves of the frontal bone in the line of the sagittal suture, the parietal fissure, a short suture which crosses the sagittal suture one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, anterior to the lambda, and the transverse occipital fissure, which is a suture situated in the occipital bone near the level of the external occipital protuberance. The Temporo-maxillary Articulation is the joint situated between the con- dyle of the inferior maxilla below, and the anterior part of the glenoid fossa and the eminentia articularis above. It is a ginglymo-arthrodial articulation, or hinge joint, modified to allow gliding movement. The ligaments of the iemporo- maxillary articulation are the capsular ligament and the interarticular fibro- cartilage. The joint is strengthened by the spheno-mandibular and stylo-man- dibular ligaments. The capsular ligament is thin, especially at its anterior and inner portions. It is attached above to the margins of the articular surface formed by the eminentia articularis and anterior portion of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, and below to the neck of the lower jaw. Its external portion is much stronger than the remainder of the capsule, and is termed the external lateral liga- ment.