462 SURGICAL ANATOMY. nerves proper, about twenty in nunil)er, which arise from the olfactory bulbs, have been divided in removing the brain from the skull. The olfactorj' tract arises by two jo-called roots, an external and an internal. The external or long root, com- posed of white matter, crosses the anterior perforated space to the anterior end of the hippocampal gyrus of the temporo-sphenoid lobe ; and the inner or mesial root, also composed of white matter, passes backward and inward to the anterior extremity of the gyrus fornicatus. Between these two diverging roots is a small triangular area of gray matter (trigonum olfactorium), which receives a few fibers from the olfactory tract; when these fibers are conspicuous, they form what is sometimes called the middle or gray root. The tract thus formed is lodged in the olfactory sulcus of the cerebrum, and is surrounded at the anterior extremity by a small rounded mass of gray matter, the olfactory bulb. The Second Cranial or Optic Nerve, which also represents a portion of the brain, is the nerve of vjsion, and arises from the optic commissure, which is formed by the union of the optic tracts. The optic tracts arise from the corpora geniculata, the nates of the corpora quadrigemina, and the optic thalami. Each tract is composed of three sets of fibers,—an outer, a middle, and an inner,— which have the following arrangement: the outer set passes directly to the optic nerve of the same side, the middle set to the optic nerve of the opposite side, and the inner set to the optic tract of the opposite side. On account of the course of the nerve-fibers from the optic tracts to the nerves a lesion of one optic tract causes hemianopsia, or obliteration of vision in the corresponding halves of both eyes: as, for example, a lesion of the left optic tract causes loss of vision in the left half of both eyes. The Third Cranial or Oculo-motor Nerve arises superficially from a groove on the inner side of the crus cerebri, just anterior to the pons, and deeply from a nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. It is a motor nerve, and sup])lies all the muscles of the ej^eball except the superior obliciue, the external rectus, and radiating fibers of the iris. The Fourth Cranial, Pathetic, or Trochlear Nerve is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and apparently arises at the outer side of the crus cerebri. Its real superficial origin is from the valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, immediately behind the testes or po.sterioi' ])air of corpora quadrigemina. The deep origin is from a nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius in close rela- tion with the nucleus of the oculo-motor nerve. In the substance of the valve of ^"ieussens it decussates with the opposite fourth cranial nerve. It then winds around the outer side of the crus cerebri, and appears at the base of the brain at the anterior border of the pons. It is a motor nerve, and supplies the superior oblique or trochlearis nmscle.