469 THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. tion of longitudinal valleys. The deepest fissures, which sejDarate the principal convolutions from each other, may be named the primary ; those which separate the secondary convolutions from each other, the secondary ; and, finally, the ter- tiary convolutions are those little gyri which jut out into the primary fissures from the sides of the principal convolutions, and, therefore, give to the bottom of the fissure a zigzag route. While the features of the principal convolutions are always arranged with considerable uniformity, numerous variations exist in the arrange- ment of the secondary and tertiary convolutions. There are several reasons for this: one is that there are sometimes only a few secondary fissures, while in other cases there are quite a number; again, in some cases tertiary convolutions which •are ordinarily invisible come to the surface ; while in others, convolutions which are usually superficial sink deeper; in the former case the fissures are bridged over, and in the latter new convolutions exist in places where there usually is none. The general arrangement of tlie fissures and convolutions of the two hemi- spheres is moderately symmetric, yet slight differences always occur. The Cerebral Fissures, besides being classified as primary and secondary fissures, are subdivided into complete and incomplete fissures. Complete fissures extend through almost the entire thickness of the cerebrum, thus producing eleva- tions in the lateral ventricles ; examples of such fissures are the hippocampal and portions of the collateral and calcarine fi.ssures. Incomplete fissures are furrows of variable depth which do not cause protrusions in the ventricles. It is by means of the convolutions and fissures of the brain that the amount of the gray matter is greatly increased, without unduly augmenting the size of the brain ; furthermore, the pia mater is thus enormously increased in extent, because it follows the windings of the gyri and fissures, and its vessels, which supply the cortex, are enabled to break up into fine branches before penetrating the brain tissue. Lobes.—Each hemisphere of the cerebrum is incompletely divided by the deeper, and therefore the more important, of the fissures into the following parts, or lobes : the frontal, the parietal, the temporal or temporo-sphenoid, and the occipital. In addition to these four lobes there is a fifth lobe—the central lobe, or island of Reil; but as this projects into the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and can not be seen without drawing apart the sides of the latter, it will be described with the fissures. The individual lobes are distinct from each other on certain surfaces only, while on other surfaces they run into each other, and are vcithout definite boundaries. The fissures are the landmarks which guide us in mapping out the hemispheres into districts, or lobes, and also in locating the individual convolutions. Hence our first task in the study of the surfaces of the hemispheres of the cerebrum is to locate the principal fissures.