432 SURGICAL ANATOMY. more than a semicircle, and ujion one extremity of eacli canal is an enlargement, the ampulla. They open by five orifices into the vestibule, as the non-ampullated extremities of the superior and posterior canals join, and have a common orifice. I^om the positions of these canals in the sagittal, coronal, and transverse planes, it may be inferred that they are in some way associated with the maintenance of equilibrium. The occurrence of vertigo from increased pressure in the perilymph and endolymph increases the probability of this theory. The cochlea is situated anterior to the vestibule. When isolated from the in- vesting bony substance it appears as a cone, the apex of which looks outward and somewhat downward and forward. The base is perforated by numerous foramina for branches of the auditory nerve, and is directed toward the meatus auditorius internus. The base is nearly two-fifths of an inch, or ten millimeters, in diameter, and the height of the cone is about one-fourth of an inch, or six millimeters. The cochlea consists of a nearly horizontal central axis, the modiolus or columnella, around which is wound a spiral tube, in a manner similar to the spirals in certain snail shells. The modiolus has numerous canals in its interior for branches of the auditory nerve; the'largest is the canalis centralis modioli. The spiral canal diminishes in diameter as it approaches the apex of the cochlea, makes two and one-half turns around the axis, and terminates in a closed extremity, the cupola. Projecting into the spiral canal from the modiolus is the bony lamina spiralis, which does not reach the outer wall of the cochlea. From the free border of the lamina spiralis or near it two membranes extend, in the natural state, the membrana basilaris and the membrane of Bcissner. These two membranes are connected with the outer wall of the cochlea and inclose between them the cochlear duct, or scala media; they are, in fact, two parts of the membranous cochlea. By the bony lamina spiralis and the two membranes just alluded to the spiral canal is divided into three parts : the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli, between which is the scala media. The scala tympani is on the basal side of the lamina spiralis, and opens into the tympanum at the fenestra rotunda, though in the natural state this opening is closed by the membrana tympani secundaria. The scala vestibuli is on the opposite side of the lamina spiralis, and opens into the vestibule. These two scalte com- municate with each other by an opening at the summit of the cochlea, known as the helicotrema; they contain the perilymph. Tho perilymph is in communication with the subarachnoid space of the brain along the sheath of the auditory nerve. The Membranous Labyrinth, the earliest formed and therefore the oldest part of the organ of hearing, lies within the osseous labyrinth, from which it is separated in most places by the perilymph. It contains the endolymph and the terminations of the auditory nerve, and it is lined by epithelium.