83 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve arises from the pneumogastric nerve in front of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, and winds behind that portion of the arch below and to the left side of the obliterated ductus arteriosus. It next ascends behind the root of the left common carotid artery to the groove between the trachea and esophagus, continuing upward to the larynx, and passing behind and internal to the left lateral lobe of the thyroid body, in a course similar to that of the right recurrent laryngeal nerve. Both nerves communicate with the superior laryngeal nerve of the same side, and with the sympathetic nerve. Pressure upon the left recurrent laryngeal nerve may be produced by aneurysm of the arch of the aorta or of the lowermost portion of the left common carotid artery, by tumors of the posterior mediastinum, enlargement of the thyroid body, or by malignant disease of the esophagus. Moderate pressure causes spasm of the muscles of the same side of the larynx, dyspnea, and change of voice. Greater pressure causes paralysis and alteration of the voice. Both nerves may be involved in labio-glosso-pharyngeal paralysis or disseminated sclerosis of the pons, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord, or by pressure from an enlarged thyroid body, or carcinoma of the esophagus. When both nerves are paralyzed the vocal cords are immovable, phonation is imperfect, and the rima glottidis is in the relaxed attitude assumed in quiet breathing. The cervical cardiac branches of the pneumogastric nerve are given off in the upper and lower part of the neck. The superior cervical cardiac branches join the cardiac branches of the sympathetic and terminate in the deep cardiac plexus. The left inferior cervical cardiac branch passes between the pleura and the left side of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, entering the superficial cardiac plexus with the left superior cervical cardiac branch of the sympathetic nerve. The right inferior cervical cardiac branch passes on the trachea to the deep cardiac plexus. The thoracic and abdominal branches of the pneumogastric nerve are described with the thorax and abdomen. The Sympathetic.—The sympathetic nervous system consists of a series of ganglia, one ganglion being joined to the other by connecting nerve cords ; it is also composed of gangliated plexuses, visceral ganglia, and many nerve fibers. Some of the ganglia—as, foy instance, the cardiac ganglia—possess automatic action. The nerve fibers of the sympathetic system are chiefly non-medullated. The cervical portion of the sympathetic nerve is situated behind the carotid sheath or in its posterior wall, and lies beneath the prevertebral fascia, where it rests upon the rectus capitis anticiis major and the longus coHi muscle. Three cervical ganglia—the superior, middle, and inferior—lie in each side of the neck.