SURGICAL ANATOMY. 416 with safety, if the perforation be directed inward and somewhat upward and forward, or parallel with the external anditory meatus. If the mastoid process is opened behind this triangle, the knee of the sigmoid portion of the lateral s^us is in danger of being injured, particularly if the perforation be made directly inward, as that sinus is only from three to six millimeters from the posterior extremity of the mastoid antrum. The posterior root of the zygoma, indi- cates the level of the floor of the cranial cavity ; should the operator pierce the bone above this line, the cranial cavity is likely to be opened. As previously stated, the mastoid antrum in the adult is usually from one-half to three-fifths of an inch, or from twelve to fifteen millimeters, from the surface of the bone ; for this reason the chisel or gimlet should enter the mastoid antrum at a depth not greater than fifteen millimeters. As the result of long-standing disease, the bone over the mastoid antrum may be thickened and sclerosed. If the inner wall of the antrum is encroached upon, the facial nerve may be injured by the chisel or other instruments used by the operator. The Mastoid Cells vary exceedingly as to number and size. They are absent at birth, and prior to puberty they are few in number. They attain their full development in the young adult, and occupy the greater portion of the mastoid process, opening directly or indirectly into the mastoid antrum. They are lined with niuco-periosteum which is continuous with that of the mastoid antrum. Posteriorly they cease abruptly at the occipito-temporal suture. They are sepa- rated from the sigmoid portion of the lateral sinus by a thin plate of bone, through which veins pass from these cells to the sinus, affording a ready means of infection and of production of septic throml)osis of the sinus. The Outer Wall of the Middle Ear is formed by the membrana tympani and, to a slight extent, by bone. The membrana tympani is an elliptic or, at times, oval membranous disc, attached to a grooved ridge of bone at the bottom of the external auditory meatus. Its greatest diameter, measured from its posterior and upper portion forward and downward, is ten millimeters in length ; the vertical measurement is slightly less ; it is one-tenth of a millimeter in thickness. The membrane is situated obliquel}^ its outer surface being directed outward, downward, and forward. It is directed downward and outward at an angle of about forty-five degrees, and forward and outward at an angle of about ten degrees. In the infant, at birth, this obliquity is greater and the membrane is almost horizontal. Its outer surface is concave, the center being the deepest point of the concavity, for the extremity of the handle of the malleus is here attached, and, as it were, draws the membrane inward. The depressed center is known as the vmho. The ])ony ring to which the tympanic membrane is attached is incomplete above, leaving a notch {)iotch of