THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 489 through the medium of the second and third annectant gyri. It is also continuous with the middle temporal convolution. The post-parietal convolution.—In some brains the middle temporo-sphenoid fissure terminates in the inferior parietal convolution, and with the fissure of Syl- vius and the superior temporo-sphenoid, or parallel, fissure divides this convolu- tion into three, as follows : that winding around the extremity of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius forms the supra-marginal gyrus ; that around the posterior extremity of the superior temporo-sphenoid fissure, the angular gyrus; and that around the posterior extremity of the middle temporo-sphenoid fissure, the post-parietal gyrus. The last-mentioned convolution is continuous with the third occipital convolution (Heath). Upon the inner or median surface of the parietal lobe the terminal part of the calloso-marginal fissure, one of the most important secondary fissures, is seen and is mentioned in describing the fissure of Rolando. This fissure commences below the anterior extremity, or rostrum, of the corpus callosum. Thence it runs parallel to, and a short distance above, the corpus callosum, from which it is separated by the convolution 'of the corpus callosum or gyrus foruicatus, to nearly opposite the posterior extremity or splenium of the corpus callosum. Here it turns upward and pursues a slightly backward course, terminating on the superior border of the hemisphere of the cerel)rum, immediately posterior to the fissure of Rolando. The calloso-marginal fissure, particularly the anterior part, is frequently bridged over by small convolutions. The subparietal fissure is a much smaller fissure, which commences at the point where the terminal portion of the calloso-marginal fissure begins to turn upward. For all practical purposes it may be considered the continuation back- ward of the main portion of the calloso-marginal fissure. The paracentral fissure, not always present, is a small tertiary fissure running out of the main portion of the calloso-marginal, on a line with the anterior limit of the median end of the ascending frontal convolution. When present, it marks definitely the posterior limit of the marginal convolution. Convolutions.—Through the medium of the calloso-marginal, paracentral, subparietal, and parieto-occipital fissures the inner surface of the parietal lobe is divided into two lobules or convolutions—the precuneus, or quadrate, and the paracentral, the former being posterior to the latter. The precuneus, or quadrate lobule, lies between the median lim'o of the parieto-occipital and the terminal portion of the calloso-marginal fissure and above the subparietal fissure. The paracentral convolution includes the median ends of the ascending parietal and ascending frontal convolutions. It lies immediatelj^ in front of the