352 SURGWAL ANATOMY. frequently join and open into the sac by a common orifice. In passing a probe into the lacrymal canaHculi their anguhir course should be remembered. Dissection.—Next make a vertical section through the upper and the lower eyelid, to demonstrate their several layers of tissue. The Eyelids are composed of skin, superficial fascia, orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, areolar tissue, palpebral ligaments, orbito-tarsal ligaments, tarsal carti- lages, Meibomian glands, conjunctiva, vessels, nerves, and lymphatic vessels. The upper eyelid also contains the a[)oneurosis of the levator palpebrse sui)erioris muscle. The most superficial layer is the skin; the second layer is the superficial fascia, which contains no fat in this location; the third layer is composed of deli- cate areolar tissue ; in the fourth layer are the tarsal cartilage, the orbito-tarsal ligament, the palpebral ligaments, the Meibomian glands, and in the upper lid the aponeurosis of the levator palpebne superioris muscle; the fifth layer is com- posed of conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue. The eyelids are described in volume I, pages 512-520. Dissection.—Open the lacrymal sac, and, after passing a probe through the lacrymo-nasal duct, saw away the anterior wall of that duct. The Lacrymal Sac is the upper, dilated end of the lacrymo-nasal duct, and rests in the lacrymal groove, which is a dei)ression in the lower anterior portion of the inner wall of the orbit. The lacrymal sac is invested by a fibrous capsule, whicli is attached to the margins of the lacrymal groove, and is continuous with the orbital periosteum. It is lined with mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the lacrymal canaliculi and lacrymo-nasal duct. Loose submucous tissue attaches mucous membrane to the fibrous capsule. The Lacrymo-nasal, Nasal, or Lacrymal Duct extends from the lacrymal sac to the uppermost part of the anterior })ortion of the inierior meatus of tlie nose. It is directed downward and sliglitly l)ackwar(l and outward. Its walls are formed by the superior maxillary, lacrymal, and ini'erior turbinated bones, and are lined by mucous membrane continuous with that of the nose and lacrymal sac, the sac and the duct forming the Lacrymal Canal. The nasal orifice of the , duct is guarded l)y a valvular fiap of nnicous membrane. The Course of the Tears is from tlie lacrymal gland at the outer part of the upper fornix of the conjunctiva and the accessory lacrymal glands in the eyelids, inward over the conjunctiva to tlie lacrymal puncta, and thence successively through the lacrymal canaliculi, lacrymal sac, lacrymal duct, and inferior meatus of the nose. If the lower eyelid is everted or inverted so that the tears do not enter the lacrymal punctum, or there is an obstruction in tlie laciynial canaliculi or nasal duct, or the tears are secreted too rapidly for tlie capacity of the puncta, as in weeping, the tears How over the cheek.