THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 461 the cerebellum; and the latter set extend forward and outward and help to form the crura of the cerebrum. Making their exit through the sides of the poris, are the trifacial nerves. The upper surface of the pons forms a part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Medulla Oblongata, the smallest of the four divisions of the brain, is the enlarged upper end of the spinal cord. It extends from the lower border of the pons, from which it is separated by a transverse groove, to the lower border of the foramen magnum. In addition to the medulla oblongata the three membranes of the spinal cord, the vertebral artery, and .the spinal accessory nerves pass through the foramen magnum of the occipital bone. Its upper surface lies in the depression between the hemispheres of tha cerebellum. It is pyramidal in shape ; about one and a quarter inches, or thirty-two millimeters, long; three- quarters of an inch, or eighteen millimeters, wide at its broadest part, which is its upper portion ; and half an inch, or twelve millimeters, in thickness. It forms part of the sides and the largest and most important part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Its further description will be deferred until the dissection of the cerebrum is completed. The Hemispheres of the Cerebellum are situated chiefly upon each side of the medulla oblongata. The arrangement of the gray matter which forms the surface of the cerebellum differs from that of the cerebrum in the following respects : In the cerebrum it is arranged in convolutions or gyri separated by fissures, while in the cerebellum it is arranged in closely applied laminae. The upper and lower surfaces of the hemispheres are divided into lobes, which will be described with the dissection of the cerebellum. By lifting up the medulla oblongata, the depression or valley between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum will be partly exposed. There will also be visible the inferior surface of the middle lobe, or inferior vermiform process, that portion of the cerebellum which forms the roof of the fourth ventricle ; projecting beyond the medulla oblongata is the posterior extremity of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum, called the tuber valvulse. Next examine the roots of the cranial nerves from before backward in the order in which they are named. THE ORIGINS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The First Cranial or Olfactory Kerve is devoted to the special sense of smell; it is seen upon the base of the brain as the olfactory tract and bulb ; in reality, the olfactory bulbs and tracts represent a portion of the brain, and ai'e more highly developed in certain of the lower animals. The olfactory