175 LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. omo-hyoid may lie close to the clavicle in front of the subclavian artery. The external jugular vein may cross the artery at some distance external to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Guides.—The guides to the third portion of the subclavian artery (the place of election) are the most prominent part of the clavicle behind -which it lies, the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the outer border of the inser- tion of the scalenus anticus muscle into the scalene tubercle of the first rib, and the pulsations of the artery. The vertebral artery may be ligatured for wounds, traumatic aneurysm, and aneurysm of the innominate artery and arch of the aorta. Its only accessible portion is deeply situated in the lower part of the neck, where it lies in the groove between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles. This portion of the artery is in relation, in front, with the vertebral and internal jugular veins, and is crossed on both sides by the inferior thyroid artery and by the thoracic duct on the left side. The vertebral vein crosses in front^ of the artery just below the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra ; it then lies in front and to the outer side of the artery as it passes downward to the innominate vein. The relation of this vein to the artery is variable, as the vein may be found on either side of the artery. Behind the artery are the sympathetic nerve cord, the inferior cervical sympathetic ganglion, and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. To its inner side is the longus colli muscle, and to its outer side the anterior scalene muscle. It is surrounded by the vertebral sympathetic plexus. In the operation for ligation of the vertebral artery the patient lies in the same position as in ligature of the third portion of the subclavian artery—/. e., with the shoulder elevated, the neck extended, and the face turned to the opposite side. The incision should commence at the clavicle, and be carried for three inches upward along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Care is required here to avoid injuring the external jugular vein, which runs under the platysma myoides muscle obliquely across the sterno-mastoid muscle to its posterior border, then along that border, piercing the superficial layer of the deep fascia one-half of an inch above the clavicle. The incision divides the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and descending branches of the cervical plexus. The external jugular vein is exposed and drawn outward, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia divided. It may be necessary to sever part of the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid muscle at its origin. The anterior scalene muscle is located, and the surgeon carries his finger inward through the interval between the prevertebral fascia and the superficial layer of the deep fascia. The positions of the internal jugular vein, common carotid arteiy, and transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra are ascertained. The anterior