DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 37 avoiding its extravasation beneath the platysma. The vein is incised obliquely, not transversely, and should not be completely severed, as hemorrhage from a partially divided vessel is more copious. The hemorrhage may be checked by relieving the pressure applied to the vein at the root of the neck, and by application of a sterile compress over the wound. When the upper portion of the external jugular is selected, the incision should be carried in the line of the fibers of the sterno- mastoid muscle. The external jugular vein may be selected as one of the chan- nels for the intra-venous injection of saline solution. A chain of small lymphatic glands (superficial cervical), varying in number from four to six, lies along the course of the external jugular vein. The posterior external jugular vein commences in the upper and back part of the neck, between the splenius and trapezius muscles, draining this territory and entering the lower portion of the external jugular vein. It occasionally receives the occipital vein. In the fetus it drains the intra-cranial region through a vein transmitted by the post-glenoid foramen, the remnant of which vein is the mastoid vein. The transversalis colli and supra-scapular veins frequently empty into the posterior external jugular vein. The anterior jugular vein arises beneath the chin. It is formed by the mental, submental, inferior labial, and inferior hyoid veins, and passes downward, almost to the sternum, in advance of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Here it pierces the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, and occupies the interval (supra-sternal intra-aponeurotic space of Griiber) above the sternum, made by the division of the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia into two layers; it then turns outward beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and enters the external jugular or the subclavian vein. It drains the skin and muscles of the anterior or median region of the neck. In making a subcutaneous section of the sterno-mastoid muscle for the correction of wryneck (torticollis), the teno- tome must hug the under surface of the origins of the muscle closely, otherwise the anterior, external, and internal jugular veins may be injured. There are usually two anterior jugular veins, one upon each side of the median line of the neck, connected just above the sternum by a transverse branch. This branch also occupies the interval between the two layers of the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, and being quite large at times, should be borne in mind when performing the low operation of tracheotomy. In labored breathing, due either to laryngeal or tracheal obstruction, these veins will be much dilated, and care will be required in incising the median line of the neck, to prevent opening one or the other. Should this accident occur in the operation of tracheotomy, while not -a serious complication, it may cause some embarrassment. Division of the transverse branch connecting the anterior jugulars at the root of the neck