SURGICAL ANATOMY. 696 structures, a bursa intervening between the fascia and the bone. When the body rests on the tuberosities of the ischia, these bursse act as cushions. Dissection.—The superficial fascia, like the skin, is to be removed in one large flap, reflected from before backward. In the urethral triangle the superficial layer only is to be removed. The anal triangle, which includes the anus and the ischio-rectal fossae, is to be dissected before the urethral triangle or perineum proper. The fat contained in the ischio-rectal fossae is to be dissected out on one side, regardless of the blood vessels and nerves passing through it, while on the other side tlie blood vessels and nerves are to be carefully preserved. The External Sphincter Ani Muscle encircles the anus, is subcutaneous, and closely adherent to the skin. It is attached behind to the tip of the coccyx, and in front to the central tendon of the perineum, there meeting the inner ends of the transverse perineal muscles, the posterior portion of the accelerator urinae muscles, and some of the fibers of the levator ani muscles. A number of the longitudinal fibers of the rectum })ass through the external sphincter ani muscle on their way to the skin. Superficially, it is in relation with the skin ; deepl}', with the levator ani muscles and internal sphincter ani muscle; internally, with the internal sphincter ani muscle and some of the rectal mucous membrane ; and upon its lateral aspects, with the fat of the ischio-rectal fossae. Blood Supply.—From the inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic artery. Its veins emj^ty into the internal pudic vein, and its lym^ihatics into the inguinal glands. Nerve Supply.—From the perineal, inferior hemorrlioidal, and fourth sacral nerves. Action.—It is a voluntary aid to the closure of the anus. It flexes the coccyx and braces the central tendon of the perineum. The Ischio-rectal Fossas are the spaces intervening between the rectum internally, and the rami and tuberosities of the ischia externally. Each fossa is cuneiform in shape, its base being directed downward and formed by the skin and superficial fascia; the edge of the wedge is directed upward, and is situated at the line along which the anal fascia springs from the obturator fascia. The ischio- rectal fossa measures about two inches, or five centimeters, from before back- ward, one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, laterally, and between two and three inches, or five and seven centimeters, in depth, being deepest externally or near the tuberosity of the ischium. The inner wall (rectal) is the longest. The ischio-rectal fossa is hounded in front by the deep layer of the superficial fascia covering the transverse perineal muscle, and by the base of the triangular liga- ment of the perineum. Behind, it is bounded by the gluteus maximus muscle