THE ORBIT. 335 nasal cavity. It then gives off an internal and an external branch, and continues as the anterior or terminal branch. The internal or septal branch supplies the anterior part of the septum. The external branch supplies the anterior portion of the middle and inferior turbinated bones and the mucous membrane of the outer nasal Avail. The anterior or terminal branch, runs downward in the groove on the under surface of the nasal bone, passes between the lower edge of the nasal bone and the superior lateral nasal cartilage, and supplies the sides and tip of the nose. The branches of the nasal nerve in the orbit are four in number: the lone: root to the lenticular ganglion, the two long ciliary nerves, and the infra-trochlear nerve. The branch to the lenticular ganglion, known as the long, upper, or sensory root of that ganglion, arises from the nasal nerve as it passes between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. It is very slender, and measures about one-half of an inch in length. It passes along the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the posterior superior angle of the lenticular ganglion. The long ciliary nerves are usually two in number. They arise from the nasal nerve as it crosses the optic nerve, and run ^long the inner side of the optic nerve to enter the eyeball by piercing the sclera. One of these nerves usually unites with one of the short ciliary nerves. Their course between the sclera and choroid is described with the eyeball. The infra-trochlear nerve arises from the nasal nerve just before that nerve enters the anterior ethmoid foramen. It traverses the inner orbital Avail beloAv the superior oblique muscle and its pulley. It forms a loop of communicatioii with the supra-trochlear nerve at times behind, but usually in front of, ^he pulley of the superior oblique muscle. It supplies the region around the inner canthus of the eyelids, including the lacrymal sac and the lacrymal caruncle. The Ophthalmic Artery is a branch of the cavernous portion of the internal carotid artery. It enters the orbit by passing through the optic foramen in company with the optic nerve, holding a position to the outer side of, and a little below, the nerve. The ophthalmic artery, like arteries in other parts of the body in Avhich the tissues must be freely moA^able,—e. g., the facial and splenic arteries, —^is very tortuous, to allow of its elongation. At first it lies to the outer side of the optic nerve, soon crossing over that nerve and running along and near the internal orbital Avail, between the superior rectus and the internal rectus muscle. At the inner canthus of the eyelids it terminates by dividing into the nasal and frontal arteries. The branches of the ophthalmic artery are the lacrymal, ethmoid, supra- orbital, retinal, ciliary, muscular, palpebral, nasal, and frontal.