DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 91 border of the hyoid bone, beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, supplying the infra- hyoid bursa and the thyro-hyoid muscle, and communicates with the infra-hyoid artery of the opposite side and with the supra-hyoid branch of the lingual artery. The middle sterno-mastoid artery passes downward and outward over the sheath of the common carotid artery in the superior carotid triangle, the triangle of election; it is chiefly distributed to the middle portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, supplying also the thyro-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and platysma myoides muscles, and the overlying skin. The author has observed cases in which this vessel was unusually large, running into the occipital triangle, and giving rise to fatal hemorrhage following the opening of an abscess. The superior laryngeal artery, larger than either of the two preceding branches, is accompanied by the internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve ; it passes beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle and pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, supplying the muscles and mucous membrane of the larynx, and anastomosing with the superior laryngeal artery of the opposite side and the inferior laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery. At times it enters the larynx through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage. The crico-thyroid artery runs across the crico-thyroid membrane, just below the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, and is continuous with the crico-thyroid artery of the opposite side. A small branch usually passes through the crico- thyroid membrane to the interior of the larynx. The operation of lar^mgotomy is performed by carrying a transverse incision through the crico-thyroid membrane, close to the cricoid cartilage, and it is therefore important to keep in mind the relation which the crico-thyroid artery bears to the membrane, and the necessity, when time is at command, for exposing the membrane by careful dissection. The ,superior thyroid vein, the accompanying vessel of the superior thyroid artery, crosses the terminal part of the common carotid artery, and empties into the internal jugular vein ; it may, at times, enter the facial or lingual vein. It emerges from the upper part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, accompany- ing the superior thyroid artery for a short distance, and then crossing the common carotid artery to empty into the internal jugular vein. A branch of the vein, or one which arises separately in the thyroid body, usually passes upward and anterior to the common carotid and the external carotid artery, and empties into the lin- gual vein. The lingual artery, the second branch of the external carotid, arises opposite the greater cornu of the hyoid bone between the superior thyroid and facial arte- ries, occasionally arising as a common trunk with the latter. It consists of three portions: the first or oblique, which lies between its origin and the outer border of the hyo-glossus muscle ; the second or horizontal portion, beneath the hyo-glossus