THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 491 The superior occipital convolution lies between the longitudinal and superior occipital fissures, and commences at the posterior end of the superior parietal convolution, to which it is connected by the first annectant gyrus. It then winds around the extremity of the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital and the mesial end of the transverse occipital fissure, when present, and becomes continuous with the cuneus, a wedge-shai)e(l lolinle seen upon the inner surface of the lobe. The middle occipital convolution lies between the superior and middle occipital fissures, and commences at the outer side of the intra-parietal fissure, and behind the angular gyrus, to which it is connected by the second and third annectant gyri. The inferior occipital convolution lies between the middle and inferior occipi- tal fissures, and is connected to the inferior or third temporo-sphenoid convolution by the fourth annectant gyrus. Upon the inner surface of the occipital lobe there is but o;ie secondary fissure, the calcarine, and one lobule, the cuneus. The calcarine fissure commences, usually, by two branches close to the lower border of the postei"ior extremity of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, runs almost horizontally forward nlong the margin formed by the median and basilar surfaces of the hemisphere, and joins the parieto-occipital fissure at an acute angle behind and below the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum. This fissure gives rise to a prominence, the calcar avis or hippocampus minor, seen in the posterior horn of tlie lateral ventricle. The cuneus is a triangular lobule situated between the median limb or main portion of the parieto-occipital fissure and the calcarine fissure. Its base is directed upward and backward, and is formed by the inner border of the superior occipital convolution ; its apex is directed downward and forward, and corresponds to the angle of union of the calcarine and parieto-occipital fissures. The fissures and convolutions of the basilar surface of the occipital lobe are uninterruptedly continuous with those of the corresponding surface of the temporo- sphenoid lobe, and therefore the inferior surface of these two lobes will be studied as the lower oecipito-temporal surface. The Temporal or Temporo-sphenoid Lobe is that part of the hemisphere of the cerebrum which extends into the middle cranial fossa, its posterior portion resting upon the tentorium cerebelli. It lies beliind the commencement of the basilar or main portion of the fissure of Sylvius, in front of a line drawn over the lateral surface -of the hemisphere of the cerebrum from the extremity of the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure to the preoccipi+nl notch, and below the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius and a line representing its continuation