MALE PERINEUM. 589 and backward by its weight, and the digastric, mylo-hyoid, genio-liyoid, and genio- hyo-glossus muscles. This displacement allows the base of the tongue to fall against the epiglottis, and thus asphyxiation may be produced. MALE PERLNEVM. The Perineum is composed of all the structures which occupy the outlet of the pelvis. Its outline is quadrilateral. The superficial boundaries of the peri- neum are : in front, the scrotum, and at the sides and behind, the thigh and the buttocks. The deep boundaries are : in front, the pubic arch and sub|)ubic liga- ment ; behind, in the middle line, the tip of the coccyx ; upon each side, the descending ramus of the pubis, the ascending ramus of the ischium, the tuberosity of the ischium, and the great sacro-ischiatic ligament overlapped by the gluteus maximus muscle. It measures laterally four or five inches, or ten or twelve centimeters, between the tuberosities of the ischia. Its depth is from two to three inches, or from five to seven centimeters, and about one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, at the pubes. The perineum is arbitrarily divided, by a transverse line through the tuberosities of the ischia,. into an anterior or urethral triangle and a posterior or anal triangle. The urethral triangle, or perineum proper, trans- mits the urethra, and the anal triangle contains the anus and terminal portion of the rectum. Dissection.—The subject should be placed on his back, the buttocks pro- jecting slightly beyond the end of the table. A block of Avood of sufficient size is then placed beneath the pelvis, to elevate the perineum to a convenient height. A medium-sized bougie or lithotomy staff should now be passed into the bladder, as it is more difficult to pass either of these instruments after the limbs have been placed in position for this dissection. To prevent the body from sliding away from the block and from the end of the table, a strip of bandage is placed across the abdomen, above the crests of the ilia, and tied at that end of the table which is beneath the buttocks. The legs and thighs are then strongly flexed and abducted. The legs are to be fixed in this position by first tying a roller bandage, two inches wide, around one leg, immediately below the flexed knee, and then passing it beneath the table, and finally around the other leg below the knee in the same manner. Finally, the flexed knees may be still further secured by fastening a roller bandage around one knee, then carrying it beneath the nape