SURGICAL ANATOMY. 454 the force of the current of blood, thus lessening the danger of apoplexy ; and, through the circle of Willis, the pressure in the four arteries is equalized. THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. The Veins of the Brain empty into the sinuses of the dura mater (see descrip- tion of the sinuses, vol. I); they do not accompan}^ the corresponding arteries. The Veins of the Cerebrum consist of a superficial or cortical and a deep or central set. The former ramify in the pia mater and empt}^ directly into the sinuses; the latter empty into the sinuses indirectly through the medium of the veins of Galen. The Cerebellar Veins.—The veins which run over the superior surface of the cerebellum empty into the veins of Galen and the straight sinus, while all of those which traverse the lower surface of the cerebellum empty into the inferior petrosal, lateral, and occipital sinuses. Absence of Valves.—^The veins and sinuses of the brain are destitute of valves. Their absence may be compensated for in the superior longitudinal sinus by the presence of the chordae "Willisii, and by the fact that the veins which empty into this sinus pass from behind forward in a direction opposite to that of the blood current, and that in entering the sinus they pass obliquely through its wall. THE PIA MATER. The Pia Mater, the innermost of the three membranes which cover the brain, invests it most intimately, and sends processes into all the fissures of the cere- brum and between most of the laminae of the cerebelkim. It is the vascular membrane of the brain, and carries the minute branches of the two internal carotids and the two vertebral arteries, and the veins which return the blood con- veyed to the brain by these vessels, all of which are associated by delicate connec- tive-tissue fibers. The author would liken the connective-tissue element of the pia mater to a grape arbor, and the vessels running over and through the interstices to the grape vine. Added to the above are numerous minute vessels, given off from the inner surface of the pia mater, which pass perpendicularly into the substance of the lirain. Only two of the processes of the pia mater receive special names—the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses of the third and fourth ventricles. The former reaches the interior of the brain b}' way of the transverse fissure. Both the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus will be described with the ventri- cles of the brain. The portions of the pia mater which cover the crura cerebri