SURGICAL ANATOMY. 308 should not be mistaken for a tumor ; the floor of the nose ; the inferior turbinated bone, which extends backward along the outer wall of the fossa; the middle meatus; the middle turbinated bone ; and high up the superior meatus and the aitterior extremity of the superior turbinated bone. Posterior rhinoscopy, or examination of the nasal fossse through the posterior nares is cjuite difficult, and can be performed only after some practice. A small mirror, similar to a laryngoscopic mirror, is inserted behind the soft palate, while the patient breathes through the nose and the tongue is depressed by the examiner. By means of light reflected through the mouth the following structures can be seen: The posterior nares, separated by the posterior margin of the nasal septum; the upper or attached portion of the inferior turbinated bone; the middle meatus; the middle turbinated bone; the superior meatus; the superior turbinated bone ; the roof of the naso-pharynx ; the upper part of the posterior wall of the naso-pharynx ; the pharyngeal tonsil; the upper part of the lateral wall of the naso-pharynx ; the pharyngeal recess ; and the profile of the trumpet- shaped orifice of the Eustachian tube. Nasal douche.—In nasal catarrh the nasal fossae are frequently cleansed by spraying or douching with an alkaline solution. In using the nasal douche the solution flow^s in one anterior naris and out through the other, elevation of the soft palate against the posterior wall of the pharynx preventing the solution from passing into the oro-pharynx. The bottom of the vessel containing the solution should not be placed above the level of the eyebrows, and the head should be inclined slightly forward so that the solution wdll not enter the Eustachian tubes, the orifices of which are on a level with the posterior extremities of the inferior turbinated bones. If the solution should enter the middle ear through the Eustachian tube, otitis media and deafness might result. Dissection.—The student should now turn the superior turbinated bone upward, and with a probe search for the orifices of the sphenoid sinus and poste- rior ethmoid cells; remove the anterior portion of the middle turbinated bone, to find the orifices of the antrum of Highmore, anterior ethmoid cells, and the in- fundibulum, and cut away the anterior portion of the inferior turbinated bone to see the inferior opening of the lacrymo-nasal duct. The frontal and sphenoid sinuses have been opened in sawing through the skull, so they can be satisfactorily studied. The frontal sinuses are situated between the inner and outer tables of the frontal bones, at the position of the superciliary eminences and glabella. They are absent before the seventh year, when they originate as extensions of the anterior ethmoid cells, and reach their full development at about the twentieth year. The anterior or external bony wall of the sinuses is the thicker of the two, and, upon careful examination, it can usually be seen to consist of two laminae, between