THE EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. 647 arches over the outer side of the posterior border and the upper end of the testicle. It is composed of a main portion, or body; an upper, hxrger, expanded extremity, termed the globus major, or head of the epididymis ; and a lower, smaller expan- sion named the globus minor, or tail of the epididymis. The head of the epididymis surmounts the posterior part of the upper end of the testicle, and is closely joined thereto by the vasa efferentia—ducts of the testicle entering the globus major. The body and tail of the epididymis are loosely attached to the postero-external aspect of the testicle by areolar tissue. The tunica vaginalis is a serous sac which invests the testicle, and part of the head and body of the epididymis, and extends upward into the spermatic cord for half an inch, or one centuneter. It is the lower and unobliterated portion of the processus vaginalis of the peritoneum. It acts as a bursa for the protection of the testicle and the head of the epididymis. Its parietal portion lines the envelope of the testicle formed by the three spermatic fasciae. The visceral portion covers the testicle except part of its posterior margin, the globus major, and the outer side of the body of the epididymis, and is in relation with the contents of the lower half inch of the spermatic cord. A deep depression of this tunic exists between the testicle and the body of the epididymis, externally and above, and is called the digital fossa. The visceral portion closely adheres to the dense white tunica albu- ginea of the testicle and gives it its glistening appearance. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is distention of the tunica vaginalis with serum. On account of the relation between the testicle and tunica vaginalis the testicle lies in the lower posterior part of the swelling, and is not endangered in tapping the hydrocele; but in inversion of the testicle this organ lies in the lower anterior part of the swelling and might be injured. Therefore it is advisable to locate the testicle, or to determine that it is not in the anterior por- tion of the swelling, before tapping a hydrocele. In the radical operation for hydrocele, preferred by the author, a longitudinal incision is made over the tumescence, and the skin, dartos, external spermatic fascia, cremasteric fascia, internal spermatic fascia, and parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis are divided. The parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis is then dissected out and removed, thus destroying the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, the site of the hydrocele. The wound should be drained. Hematocele is distention of the tunica vaginalis with blood. Structure of the Testicle and Epididymis.—The testicle is invested by the tunica albuginea, which is a dense, firm, inelastic white, fibrous structure, which forms the true outer coat of the testicle. The tunica albuginea is about one-sixteenth of an inch, or one and one-half millimeters, thick throughout most of its extent, being thickest at the posterior margin of the gland under tlie epididymis, where it is in-