MALE PERINEUM. 591 operations upon this part. It is the line of demarcation between the respective areas involved in internal and external hemorrhoids, and marks the position of the interval between the external and internal sphincter ani muscles. The anus is the dilatable aperture at the lower extremity of the alimentary tract. It is situated in the anal triangle in the median line, and its center is one and one-half inches, or four centimeters, in front of the tip of the coccyx. The skin around it is pigmented and thrown into Iblds, which are most numerous posteriorly. In the creases between these folds there develo]:) fssures of the anus, which are irritable, linear ulcers. In the integument immediately around the aims are situated a number of sweat glands, known as the circum-anal glands. Sebaceous glands are also found in connection with the hair of this region. Sup- puration of these glands produces a superficial abscess, Avhich must not be mistaken for abscess of the isehio-rectal fossa. Congenital Defects.—Absence of the anus is known as imperforate anus, and occurs as a congenital defect. The .operation for the relief of this malformation consists of searching for the rectum through an incision into the perineum immedi- ately anterior to the coccyx ; if the rectum can not be found, the only alternative is colotom}^ Certain dermoid cysts, which are occasionally found in the coccy- geal region, originate from the so-called post-anal gut, a portion of the hind gut situated posterior to the anal opening, Avhich, normally, is obliterated. Termina- tion of the urethra in the perineum is known as perineal hypospadia. The Ischio-rectal Fossae are situated at the side of the anus, between it and the tuberosities of the ischia. In the skin over one of these fossae the mouth of a complete fistula in ano or an incomplete external fistula in ano is found; it is there that tenderness is detected in inflammation and abscess of the ischio-rectal fossaj. Rectal Examination.—The rectum, one of the most important surgical avenues, should always be examined by the finger, and the parts in relation with the anterior wall should be carefull}^ studied and their position accurately deter- mined before dissecting the perineum. On introducing the finger into the bowel, with its dorsal surface presenting to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, the resistance off"ered by the contraction of the external sphinetei- ani muscle will first be felt, and for one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, above the external sphincter the resistance offered by the contraction of the internal sphincter ani muscle will be noticed. About a half inch above the internal sphincter ani and through the anterior wall of the rectum the prostate gland will be felt, the outline of which should be carefully defined in order to be able to draw comparisons when cases of hypertrophy of this organ are met. The prostate gland in the healthy adult is a body about the size of a large chestnut, and is felt from one and one-half to two