SECTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 567 The superior pechmcles of the cerebellum connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum, and pass forward, forming the lateral boundaries of the anterior portion of the fourth ventricle. Under the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius the two superior peduncles decussate ; each peduncle then enters the opposite subthalamic region of the cerebrum, to reach the optic thalamus and lenticular nucleus. The middle peduncles connect the cerebellum with the pons. The inferior peduncles are formed by the restiform bodies, and connect the cerebellum Avith the medulla oblongata and spinal cord. Dissection.—Carry a vertical incision through the center of the hemisphere of the cerebellum, to expose the white matter and gray nucleus. Interior Arrangement.—In the interior of the wdiite matter of the cere- bellum is a gray nucleus, tlie corpus dentatum. The white matter sends processes into the laminae of the gray matter, which forms the surface of the cerebellum, and give rise to the appearance that has been termed the arbor vitas. The corpus dentatum of the cerebellum, like the nucleus of the same name in the olivary body, is arranged in the form of a capsule presenting a zigzag outline which is open at the inner side. Through this open part, or hilum, of the capsule a bundle of white fibers passes to the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens. SECTIONS OF THE BRAIN. Having mastered the topography of the encephalon, together with its intra- ventricular aspect, in the study of which some of its parts were seen in horizontal sections, it will now be well to study coronal and sagittal sections, and so obtain a more accurate knowledge of the relations of the various parts of the enceph- alon. A sagittal section lies in a vertical longitudinal plane, running antero-poste- riorly, as if through the entire length of the brain through or parallel with the sagittal suture, hence it is so named ; a section of this kind is not, however, limited to the median line. A coronal section lies in a vertical transverse plane, running from side to side, at right angles to a sagittal plane ; this is also called a frontal section. A coronal section through the brain at the tips of the temporo-sphenoid lobes will traverse the anterior end of the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum, and one a short distance beyond this will pass through the anterior end of the caudate nucleus. A section passing through the optic commissure, or just behind it, will include the front of the optic thalami. A frontal section must, therefore, be made back of the optic commissure if it is to include both sets of basal ganglia. A coronal section about midway between the optic commissure and the tips of