DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 135 the rib. If the pulsations of the artery be felt, its sheath should be opened and the aneurysm needle, carrying the ligature, passed from before backward, away from the vein, and then from below upward, care being taken to avoid including the lower of the three cervical trunks of the axillary or brachial plexus, which runs behind and nearly parallel with the third portion of the subclavian artery. In very muscular subjects, in addition to the above structures, it may be necessary to divide a portion of the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid and the anterior border of the trapezius muscle. After this ligation the collateral circulation is carried on by the anastomosis of the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries with the dorsalis scapulae and the terminal portion of the subscapular artery, the supra-scapular above, with the acromio-thoracic and posterior circumflex arteries below, and by the anastomosis of the superior thoracic, thoracic branches of the acromio-thoracic, the long thoracic, and the subscapular artery, with the aortic intercostal arteries, the internal mammary, and the superior intercostal artery. Ligation of the second portion of the subclavian artery is very rarely performed. The vessel is exposed by an incision along the clavicle, as in the foregoing ligation ; in addition, the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid muscle is divided, the connective tissue is cleared away, and any veins which may be found overlying the prevertebral fascia covering the anterior scalene muscle are tied. The prevertebral fascia is divided, the phrenic nerve carried inward, and the anterior scalene muscle severed near its attachment to the first rib, care being taken not to injure the anterior jugular, external jugular, internal jugular, and subclavian veins or the pleura. The needle should be carried from before back- ward and below upward to avoid injuring the vein, as in ligating the third portion of the artery. Ligation of the first portion of the subclavian artery is the most difficult of the three ligations, especially of the left subclavian artery. This portion of the vessel lies deeper than the other two portions, is surrounded more intimately by important structures, and gives off three branches. (See description of the relations of the first portion.) To expose this portion of the vessel on the right side make a triangular flap, like that made in tying the innominate artery, by carrying an incision along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and one along the upper border of the clavicle. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, superficial layer of the deep fascia, and the anterior jugular vein are divided. The sternal head of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and, if necessary, the clavicular head, as well as the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles at their origin, are divided. The inferior thyroid veins, now seen at the bottom of the wound, should be held aside or divided between ligatures, and the root of the com-