96 SURGICAL ANATOMY. into the deep cervical vein. The deep cervical vein accompanies the deep branch of the princeps cervicis' artery, then the profunda cervicis, passes between the trans- Verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, and empties into the innominate or vertebral vein. The posterior auricular artery, the remaining posterior branch of the external carotid, is smaller than the occipital artery, and arises just above the pos- terior belly of the digastric muscle. It ascends obliquely upward and backward in the parotid gland, to the furrow between the pinna of the ear and the mastoid process of the temporal bone, passing below the facial nerve and over the spinal accessory nerve. Immediately above the mastoid process it divides into two branches—an anterior, which passes forward and anastomoses with the posterior division of the temporal artery, and a posterior, which anastomoses with the occi- pital artery. The Branches of the posterior auricular artery are the parotid, muscular, stylo-mastoid, auricular, and mastoid. The parotid branches supply the lower end of the parotid gland, anastomos- ing with other arteries distributed to the gland. The muscular branches supply the digastric, stylo-hyoid, sterno-mastoid, and retrahens aurem muscles. The stylo-mastoid branch enters the stylo-mastoid foramen of the temporal bone, and supplies the tympanum, the mastoid cells, and the semicircular canals. In the fetus a branch of the stylo-mastoid artery forms, with the tympanic branch from the internal maxillary artery, a vascular circle around the circumference of the tympanic membrane ; from this circle smaller vessels are given off, which ramify upon the membrane. From the aqueduct of Fallopius it sends branches to the external auditory meatus (meatal); to the mastoid cells and mastoid antrum (mastoid); to the stapedius muscle (stapedic); to the tympanum, forming the anas- tomotic circle in the fetus (tympanic); to the vestibule and semicircular canals (vestibular); and a final twig (terminal), which accompanies the great superficial petrosal nerve through the hiatus Fallopii and anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery. The auricular branch (anterior terminal) supplies the back part of the auricle, and anastomoses with the posterior temporal and auricular branch of the superficial temporal artery ; some of its branches perforate the cartilage of the pinna to supply its anterior surface. The mastoid branch (occipital branch) crosses the insertion of the sterno- , mastoid muscle, supplies the structures over the mastoid process, and anastomoses with the occipital artery. The posterior auricular vein, which is of considerable size, accompanies the