DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 81 is a long, fusiform enlargement, situated upon the nerve about one-half of an inch below the jugular foramen. It is closely associated with the hypo-glossal nerve, which winds around its outer side ; below this ganglion the vagus receives some fibers from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve. Branches of the Pneumogastric Nerve.—These may be classified as communicating branches and branches of distribution. The communicating branches connect it with the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory, hypo-glossal, sympathetic, and first two cervical nerves. The branches of distribution are : in the jugular foramen, the meningeal and the auricular nerve; in the neck, the pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, recurrent laryngeal, and cervical cardiac nerves; in the chest, the thoracic cardiac, anterior and posterior pulmonary, and esopha- geal nerves ; in the abdomen, gastric branches. The meningeal or recurrent branch is a small twig which runs upward from the ganglion of the root, through the jugular foramen, to the dura mater near the lateral sinus. The auricular (Arnold's) nerve has its origin from the ganglion of the root of the vagus, receives a branch from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and passes over the bulb of the internal jugular vein to reach an aperture in the outer wall of the jugular fossa. It next passes through the temporal bone near the facial canal, communicating with the facial nerve, and emerging from the bone between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus. Turning outward, it supplies the back of the pinna and part of the external auditory canal, one of its branches communicating with the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. Irritation of this nerve by a foreign body in the external auditory meatus may induce cough, which is not relieved until the foreign body is removed. This ear cough is explained by reference of the irritation to the mucous membrane of the larynx through the auricular and superior laryngeal branches of the pneu- mogastric nerve. The pharyngeal branch, the chief motor nerve of the pharynx, arises from the ganglion of the trunk and receives part of the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve. It runs behind or in front of the internal carotid artery to the back of the pharynx, to the upper border of the middle constrictor muscle, where it assists in forming the pharyngeal plexus. This plexus is formed by branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, pnevimogastric nerve, and superior cervical sympa- thetic ganglion. The pharyngeal muscles and mucous membrane and the azygos uvulae and levator palati muscles are supplied by filaments from this plexus. The superior laryngeal nerve is the sensory nerve of the larynx. It arises from the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric nerve, curving down- ward and forward behind the internal and external carotid arteries, and dividing II—6