SURGICAL ANATOMY. 348 Nerve Supply.—From the longest branch of the inferior division of the oculo-motor nerve, which entei's the muscle at its posterior margin. Dissection.—The ocular conjunctiva should now be removed from the scler- otic coat of the eyeball as far forward as the margin of the cornea, so that the positions of the attachments of the four rectus muscles can be observed. The rectus muscles are inserted by thin, flat, slightly expanded tendons into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball, one-fourth to one-third of an inch from the margin of the cornea. Action.—The actions of the rectus and oblique muscles of the orbit are some- what complex, as almost every movement of the eyeball is performed by two or more muscles. In considering the movements of the eyeball it must be remem- bered that the globe can not be moved away from its position, in which it is closely retained by the capsule of Tenon and the attachments qf the orbital fascia, forward movement Ixnng prevented by the rectus muscles. The only movements of the eyeball are rotation around any axis of the globe, limited by the attach- ments of the orbital fascia existing between the muscles and the adjacent structures, as the orbital i:)eriosteum and the palpebral fascia. These movements are more easily understood if only the motion of the cornea is considered. Adduction of the cornea is performed by the internal rectus muscle, and abduction of the cornea by the external rectus muscle and the two oblique muscles. Elevation of the cornea, as in looking directly upward, is performed by the superior rectus muscle, the inferior oblique muscle preventing adduction of the cornea and rotation of the cornea inward. Rotation of the cornea inward is movement of the uppermost portion of the cornea inward and downward. Depression of the cornea is performed by the inferior rectus muscle, the superior oblique muscle preventing adduction of the cornea and rotation of the cornea outward. Rotation of the cornea inward is performed by the superior rectus muscle and the superior oblicjue muscle, and rotation of the cornea outward by the inferior rectus muscle and the inferior oblique muscle. Rotation of the cornea is not a common movement, and it occurs when the head is inclined to one side. Movement of tlie cornea in an oblique direction is performed chiefly by two of the rectus muscles, as upward and outward by the superior rectus and external rectus muscles. Excessive action of the various muscles is prevented by the attachments of the anterior lamella of the orljital fascia. Strabismus, or deviation of the sagittal axis of one eyeball from its normal position, occurs when one or more muscles are excessively active or the o])posing