DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 113 ganglion near the root of the tongue, Avhile near the anterior border of the hyo- glossus muscle it forms a loop with the hypo-glossal nerve. It supplies the mucous membrane of the mouth, the lower gums, and the sub- lingual and submaxillary glands, and gives off branches which ascend through the muscular substance of the tongue to the filiform and fungiform papillae. The branches to the sublingual and submaxillary glands contain secreto-motor fibers, which, when stimulated, increase the secretion of these glands. The lingual is the common sensory nerve of the tongue, and contains taste fibers for the anterior two-thirds of that organ. The submaxillary ganglion is small, and is situated upon the hyo-glossus muscle, between the gustatory nerve and the deep portion of the submaxillary gland and beneath the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. Like the other ganglia of the head, it is connected with the branches of the trifacial nerve and receives filaments of communication of three kinds—viz., motor, sensory, and sym- pathetic. Its motor root arises from the facial nerve through the chorda tjaiipani; the sensory branches are derived from the gustatory or lingual nerve ; its connec- tion with the sympathetic nerve is through a branch which comes from the nervi molles around the facial artery. Its branches of distribution, five or six in number, supply the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, and the sub- maxillary gland and its duct. Wharton's duct, the duct of the submaxillary gland, is about two inches long, and has its origin in the deep portion of the gland. It winds around the posterior or free border of the mylo-hyoid muscle, then lies on the hyo-glossus muscle, between the hypo-glossal and gustatory nerves, under cover of the mylo- hyoid muscle ; thence it passes forward over the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve and sublingual gland, terminating in a constricted opening, situated on a small papilla in the floor of the mouth at the side of the lingual frenum. Near its termination it is joined by one of the ducts of the sub- lingual gland—the duct of Bartholin. The submaxillary gland.—The deep portion of the submaxillary gland turns forward around the posterior or free border of the mylo-hj'oid muscle, lying between it and the hyo-glossus muscle. The sublingual gland, the smallest of the three salivary glands, lies upon the mylo-hyoid muscle beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth at the side of the lingual frenum, where it produces an oblong prominence. It is in contact, on its inner side, with the hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles, the gustatory nerve, and the duct of the submaxillary gland. On its outer side it is in relation with the sublingual fossa in the body of the lower jaw and with the mylo-hyoid muscle; behind, with the deep portion of the submaxil- II—8