341 THE ORBIT. sensory or long root springs from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. It passes along the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the posterior superior angle of the ganglion. The sympathetic root has its origin in the cavernous plexus, and is somewhat difficult to dissect satisfactorily. It enters * the back portion of the ganglion in one of three ways: most commonly in com- pany with the sensory root, more rarely alone, in the form of a bunch of fine filaments, and least frequently in company with the motor root. Branches.—From the anterior border of the ganglion about six delicate filaments are given off, which run forward to the eyeball and, by subdividing, . number twenty when they reach the globe. They are termed the short ciliary nerves. They surround the optic nerve and pierce the sclerotic coat in a circle around the entrance of that nerve. Having penetrated the sclerotic coat, they are joined by the long ciliary nerves. They are ordinary sensory and tropliic nerves to the eyeball, and motor nerves to the radiating fibers of the iris, the ciliary muscle, and the sphincter iridis. The motor oculi filaments supply the circular muscular fibers of the iris; and the sympathetic fibers supply the radiating muscular fibers of the iris. The Third, Motor Oculi, or Oculo-motor Nerve lies in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, holding the highest position of all the nerves situated there. It passes to the sphenoid fissure, and here divides into a superior and an inferior division. These divisions then pass through the sphenoid fissure and between the heads of the external rectus muscle, separated from each other by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. The superior division, the smaller of the two, has already been traced. It supplies the superior rectus muscle and the levator palpebrse superioris rmuscle. The inferior division very soon breaks up into three branches. Two of these are comparatively short, and enter the ocular surface of the two muscles to which they are distributed,—the inferior and internal recti muscles,—the branch to the internal rectus muscle passing under the optic nerve. The third branch pursues a longer course, and runs along the floor of the orbit to supply the inferior oblicjue muscle. It occupies the interval between the inferior and external rectus muscles and enters the inferior obliquS muscle at its posterior border. It gives off", near its origin, the motor root to the lenticular ganglion. The oculo-motor nerve supplies the lenticular ganglion and the muscles of the orbit, with the exception of the external rectus and superior oblique muscles. Through the lenticular ganglion it supplies the ciliary muscle and the sphincter iridis. The Sixth, or Abducent Nerve, passes forward in the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, lying on the outer side of, and slightly posterior to, the internal carotid artery. It enters the orbit through the inner part of the sphenoid fissure,