170 SURGICAL AAATOMY. The transversalis colli artery is rarely seen, owing to its high position, while the supra-scapular artery crosses the subclavian artery just behind the clavicle. If eiliier artery is seen, it should be displaced, and not divided; if the external jugular vein causes much difficulty, it should be divided between ligatures. In very muscular subjects it may be necessary to cut through the posterior part of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The variations in the position of this portion of the artery should be borne in mind. It usuall}' emerges from beneath the anterior scalene muscle, about one-half of an inch above the clavicle, and descends abruptly ; it may, however, lie almost entirely under the clavicle, or it may ascend as high as one and one-half inches above the clavicle. It occa- sionally gives origin to the posterior scapular artery. That the ligature has been applied to the subclavian artery instead of to a trunk of the brachial plexus is proved by the absence of the pulse beyond the ligature. The Collateral Circulation is established by the anastomoses of the— Above. Below. Supra-scapular and ^xith -^^^'0™^°'^^^°^^*^^^) posterior circum- Posterior scapular arteries flex, and subscapular arteries. Internal mammarv artery a ■ *\ ■ ^ +i superior thoracic, Jong thoracic, Superior intercostal artery with ^^^^^^ subscapular arteries. Aortic intercostal artery Irregular Forms.—The rigid suhclaviati arfcry arises at times higher or lower than normally, or may spring directly from the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta as the hrst, second, third, or fourth branch. When it is the first branch, the first portion takes the course of the innominate artery and is more deeply situated than normally ; when it is the second or third branch, it usually passes under the common carotid artery ; and when it is the fourth branch, it may pass under the trachea and esophagus, or between the trachea and esophagus, and has been seen arising from the descending portion of the aorta as low as the fourth tlioracic vertebra. The left siibcldrian arfer;/ may arise from a short trunk common to it and the left common carotid artery. On each side the subclavian artery may pass in front of or jnerce the scalenus anticns muscle; the subclavian vein may accompany the second portion of the .subclavian artery through or undei- tlie scalenus anticus muscle. The second portion may lie under tlie clavicle, or may rise one and one-half inches al)Ove tbe clavicle. Tlie tliii-d portion of the sub- clavian artery frc(inently gives origin to the posterior sca])ular artery, and occasion- ally to the supra-scapular artery, and in muscular persons may be covered by the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. A clavicular origin of the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle may lie in front of this i)ortion, and this belly of the