THE LARYNX. ■ 247 of the soft palate. As the knife is pushed iijiward it cuts the tensor palati aponeu- rosis. The bistoury is then carried upward, forward, and inward, cutting the superior surface of the soft pahite for a distance sufficient to allow severance of the levator palati aponeurosis. The palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus muscles can be divided by a shallow incision across each of the pillars of the tjiuces. The attachment of the palatine aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the hard palate may also cause difficulty in approximating the freshened mai-gins of the cleft, and should be divided as far as necessary. The success of the operation depends chiefly upon the relief of tension upon the sutures. Paralysis of the Muscles of the Soft Palate and Pharynx may occur during convalescence from diphtheria. As a result, there is difficulty in swallowing and regurgitation of food through the nose. THE LARYNX. Tlie larynx is a membrano-cartilaginous, box-like organ. It is the organ of voice, assists in protecting the respiratory tract from the entrance of foreign bodies during deglutition, and closes the respiratory tract, so that the chest can be made firm during great muscular effort. It is situated at the upper portion of the respiratory tract, above the trachea and in front of the lower portion of the pharynx. Anteriorly, it is covered by skin, superficial and deep fasciae, two thin layers of muscular tissue, and, occasionally, a process of the middle lobe of the thyroid gland. The superficial stratum of muscular tissue is composed of the sterno- hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles; the deep stratum, of the sterno-thyroid and thyro- hyoid muscles. The great vessels lie on each side of the larynx in the groove between the larynx and the sterno-mastoid muscle. It is suspended from the skull by the stylo-hyoid ligament, the muscles attached to the superior surface of the hyoid bone, and the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles, which are inserted into the posterior borders of the alfe of the thyroid cartilage. It is lined internally by mucous membrane which is continuous above with that lining the pharynx, and below with that of the trachea. It consists of three single cartilages and three pairs of cartilages united by membranes, ligaments, and muscles. The three single cartilages are the thyroid, cricoid, and epiglottis ; the paired ones are the arytenoid, cornicula laryngis, and cuneiform. The larynx is larger in all its dimensions in the male than in the female. The Superior Aperture of the Larynx inclines obliquely downward and backward. It is bounded in front by the epiglottis ; behind, by the interarytenoid