SURGICAL ANATOMY. Arteries of one side of the head and neck anastomose with corresponding arteries of the opposite side, as the two external carotid, two internal carotid, two vertej^al, two inferior thyroid arteries, etc. Irregular Forms.—The innominate artery may bifurcate higher or lower than the upper margin of the right sterno-elavicular articulation ; it may give off the thyroidea ima, vertebral, or internal mammary artery, a th^'mic, tracheal, bronchial, or pericardiac branch, and it may arise as the third branch of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. When the innominate artery bifur- cates at an unusually high level, it ma}' be tied more readily, and may overlie the trachea for an inch al)ovc the sternum and be endangered in the low o})eration for tracheotomy ; if it divide at a lower level, it is tied witli greater difficulty. AVhen the iimominate artery is the last Ijranch of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, it may pass behind the trachea and esophagus. An innominate artery rarely exists on the left side, or the innominate artery may be absent and the right common carotid and the right subclavian artery may arise from the arch of the aorta. Guides.—The guides to the innominate artery are the right sterno-clavicular articulation, the right common' carotid artery, and the angle between the roots of the right connnon carotid and the right subclavian artery. The subclavian artery is usually tied at its third portion, which is to the outer side of the anterior scalene muscle, and is the place of election. Ligature of the fird portion of the artery is attended by great risk, this ])ortion being deeply placed, and having closely associated with it the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves and their cardiac branches; the pleura is behind and the commencement of the innominate vein or the termination of the internal jugular vein in front of the first portion. The second portion is seldom tied, the artery being here covered by the anterior scalene muscle, which underlies the phrenic nerve; this portion is closely related to the pleura. The tliird p)ortion of tlie subclavian arter}' is more accessible, being more superficial, and not so closely associated with important structures. It is ligatured for anevirysm of the arch of the aorta, the innominate, and the axillary artery ; also previous to excision of the scapula, amputation at the shoulder-joint, and removal of large growths from the axilla. It is covered b}' the .skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, supra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, superficial layer of tlic dee]) cervical fascia, areolar tissue and fat, whicli here contains the terminations of the external jugular vein and supra-sca])ular vein, and, at times, the posterior external jugular, transversalis colli, and jugulo-cephalic veins. When all of these veins are present in this location, they form a plexus over the artery and increase the difficulty of reaching the vessel. The third