SURGICAL ANATOMY. 622 introduce the petticoat catheter and pack the wound ; or, what will usually suffice, to introduce through the wound an English catheter, size about No. 20 French scale, and pack around it. When the entire breadth of the i)rostate and its capsule is divided, the urine will have ready access to the pelvis. In performing the opera- tion of lateral litliotomy on children it is to be borne in mind, first, that the bladder holds a higher position in the pelvis than it does in the adult; second, that the prostate is but rudimentary, and difficulty may be experienced in reach- ing the bladder ; and, third, that there is danger of severing the niembranous urethra, especiall}' if the finger be introduced into the bladder—a procedure which should never be practised in children. Median Perineal Cystotomy.—The structures divided in the operation of median perineal cystotomy are skin, superficial fascia (both layers), base of the triangular ligament, compressor urethrre muscle, and membranous urethra. The prostatic urethra, with that part of the prostate gland surrounding it, should be either cut or dilated. The parts especially to be avoided are the bulb of the penis, the artery of the bulb, and the rectum. The incision should not be carried entirely through the prostate, for the same reason as that stated in lateral lithotomy. The recto-urethral space has been exposed by the previous dissection. The apex of this space is at the junction of the rectum with the middle lobe of the pros- tate. The sides are formed by the anterior fibers of the levator ani. This is the space through which the knife passes in the operation of median perineal cys- totomy. THE EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. The External Genital Organs of the Male are the penis, testicles, spermatic cord, and scrotum. In their description the entire length of the urethra is in- cluded. The Penis is composed of three ela.stic, rod-like bodies enveloped by fascia and integument. These bodies are the two corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongi- osum. The two corpora cavernosa are situated side by side in the dorsal portion of the penis, and form about two-thirds of the bulk of the organ. They are slightly separated anteriorly, where they terminate in blunt, conic extremities, and are more widely separated posteriorly, where they commence as the crura of the penis; in the remainder of their extent they are closely united. The crus penis, the posterior portion of the corpus cavernosum, begins as a cuneiform body, is attached