SURGICAL ANATOMY. 656 The Labia Minora {nijmphcr) are two small cutaneous folds placed internal to the labia niajora. They form the prepuce and frenum of the clitoris, and extend downward and outward from the sides and dorsum of this organ for about one and one-half inches, or four centimeters, to become continuous with the skin of the labia majora and the mucous membrane of the vagina. They may be concealed by, or project from, the labia majora. The nymphte are covered with delicate integu- ment ; they contain sebaceous, but no mucous, glands, and are consequently to be regarded as cutaneous, and not as mucous, folds. Venous spaces and smooth mus- cular fibers in their interior produce an appearance similar to that of erectile tissue. The Pudendal Cleft or Uro-genital Fissure separates the labia of the two sides and extends antero-posteriorly. In the erect position of the body it is almost horizontal. It is the representative of the raphe of the scrotum in the male. The Clitoris, about one and one-half inches, or four centimeters, long, is situated at the upper part of the pudendal cleft and, with the exception of its glans, is hidden by the labia minora, which form the prepuce and frenum of the clitoris. Its structure is similar to that of the penis, differing from the latter in having a smaller corpus spongiosum, wdiich does not transmit the urethra, and is cleft posteriorly Avhere it forms the bulbs of the vestibule. It is provided with a suspensory ligament, and consists of a glans, a body, and two crura. The prepuce of the clitoris is continuous with the lal)ia minora. Despite the small size of the clitoris as compared with the j^enis, it has, proportionately, a much greater nerve supply. The "Vestibule is the triangular interval at the anterior part of the floor of the pudendal cleft, the apex of which is at the clitoris. The lateral boundaries of the vestibule are formed by the labia minora, and the base, by the upper margin of the orifice of the vagina. The External Urinary Meatus, or External Orifice of the Urethra, is imme- diately above the center of the base of the vestibule. It is about one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, below the clitoris, and just above the orifice of the vagina. The mucous mcml)rane projects at its orifice and forms a papilla which can usually be felt. Catheters axQ sometimes introduced into tlie female urethra without exi)0sure of the person, consecjuently there may ])e some difficulty in engaging the instrument in the external urinary meatus. The index-finger of the left hand is inserted into the vagina and with its palmar surface forward is held against the anterior wall of the vagina ; then the catheter, held in the right hand, is carried along the palmar surface of the left index-finger; when it reaches the vaginal orifice, its beak is tilted forward and by slight manipulation enters the urethra. The Orifice of the Vagina is situated innnediately below tlie vestibule. It