120 SURGICAL ANATOMY. the sterno-hyoid and over the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone external to the slferno-hyoid muscle. It lies beneath the superficial layer of the deep fascia and sterno-mastoid muscle, and in front of the thyro-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles and the carotid sheath. It may be absent or double, or may blend with the adja- cent sterno-hyoid muscle; occasionally it receives an accessory slip from the manu- brium sterni, or sends one to the lower jaw. The posterior belly of the muscle has already been seen crossing the posterior triangle just above the clavicle, and dividing it into the occipital and subclavian triangles. It arises from the u|)per border of the scapula, behind the supra-scapular notch, and fi'om the transverse ligament, and may have an additional origin from the upper surface of the middle third of the clavicle. It terminates in the tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle which crosses the carotid sheath. It is covered by the superficial layer of the deep fascia, trapezius muscle, clavicle, subclavius muscle, sterno-mastoid muscle, external jugular vein, and the descending superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves. It passes over the first digitation of the serratus magnus muscle and third part of the subclavian artery, the transversalis colli and supra-scapular arteries, the supra-scapular nerve, the cervical trunks of the brachial plexus, the scaleni muscles, the prevertebral fascia, and the carotid sheath. The intervening tendon is bound down by a process of the deep fascia, attached to the clavicle and first rib. Action.—It draws the hyoid bone downward and assists in making tense the lower portion of tlie deep cervical fascia, thus diminishing the atmospheric pressure upon tlie large veins at tlie rof)t of the neck and favoring the return cir- culation. Nerve Supply.—It is supplied by the descendens hyi^oglossi and the com- municantes hypoglossi nerves. The sterno-hyoid muscle ari.ses from the posterior surface of the upper part of the manul)rium sterni, the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, and the i)Osterior surface of the inner extremity of the clavicle. Its fibers pass upward and inward to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. It has, at times, a tendinous intersection in its lower part. It lies beneath the skin and fascife, anterior jugular vein, sterno-mastoid muscle, sterno-clavicular joint, and the mr(n\d)rium sterni ; in front of the sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and crico-thyroid muscles, the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, the thyro-hyoid and crico-thyroid mem- branes, the pretracheal fascia, trachea, isthmus of the thyroid body, and inferior thyroid veins. Nerve Supply.—From the loop between the descendens and communicantes hypoglossi nerves.