558 SURGICAL ANATOMY. boundaries of the lower part of the fourth ventricle are formed, while the apex of the lower triangle of the ventricle is situated at the point of separation of the two clavaj. This divergence exposes the gvay matter of the interior of the medulla, which forms the floor of the lower portion of the fourth ventricle and is continuous with the gray matter of the S})inal cord. Recapitulation.—Review the parts seen in stud3'ing the medulla from before backward. They are : The anterior median hssure, the anterior pyramid, the hypo- glossal or antero-lateral fissure with the roots of the hj'poglossal nerve, the olivary body, containing the corpus dentatum, the post-olivary sulcus, the lateral tract, the postero-lateral fissure with the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneinnogastric, and spinal accessory nerves, the funiculus of Rolando and its tubercle, the funiculus cuneatus with the cuneate tubercle, the funiculus gracilis with the clava, and the posterior median fissure. FuxcTioN.—The medulla is described by Ranney as " the true nerve center of animal life." Several of the cranial nerves have their primary, deep, or central origin wholly or in part in the medulla. Some of the centers contained within the medulla are the respiratory, the vaso-motor, the cardio-inhibitory, the diabetic, and a salivary center. THE CEREBELLUM. Position, Size, and Connections.—The cerebellum, or little brain, lies beneath the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, behind the pons, and above and upon both sides of the medulla oblongata. It occupies the inferior occipital fossae, and lies beneath the tentorium cerebelli, which separates it from the cerebrum. The surface of the cerebellum, like that of the cerebrum, is composed of gray matter, which is darker in color in the cerebellum, and arranged in laminx instead of in convolutions. The cerebellum measures from three and one-half to four inches, or from nine to ten centimeters, in its transverse diameter, fi'om two to two and one-half inches, or from five to six centimeters, in its antero-posterior diameter, and about two inches, or five centimeters, in its vertical diameter at the thickest part. It is attached to the cerebrum by the superior peduncles, to the pons by the middle peduncles, and to the medulla oblongata by the inferior peduncles of the cerel)clhun. Lobes.—The cerebellum consists of two hemispheres and a central lobe,—the vermiform process, or vermis,—tlu'ough the medium of which the hemispheres are united. The hemispheres arc separated inferiorly by a comparatively wide and deep median groove, tlie vallecula, or valley, wliich is occupied in great part by the medulla oblongata ; the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum also pro-