II-2 17 SURGICAL ANATOMY. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. , SURFACE ANATOMY. The surface anatomy of the region of the neck should be considered in re- gard to its superficial veins and nerves, the upper portion of the respiratory tract, the prominent muscles, the pulmonary apices, the sterno-clavicular joints, and the large vessels. The skin of the front of the neck may lie- either in horizontal or vertical folds, the former being more common, and always seen in infants. In stout persons the deposition of fat in the subcutaneous tissues makes these folds very prominent, producing the condition known as " double chin." ^^ertical folds occur in the aged, especially in those who have lost much adipose tissue, in consequence of which the old and inelastic skin can no longer adapt itself The anterior and most prominent ridges of the surface of the neck are due to the anterior border of the platysma myoides muscles. Length of the neck.—The variability which exists in the length of the necks of different persons is due, as Merkel points out, to three factors: First, to the position of the shoulder girdle ; second, to the contour of the border of the trape- zius muscle; third, to the thickness of the neck. The superior thoracic aperture is oblique from behind forward and downward ; in some persons this obliquity is greater than in others, so that the supra-sternal notch may be on a levex with the third thoracic vertebra ; this will consequently cause the inner end of the clavicle to lie lower, and the neck will appear longer. When the border of the trapezius muscle slopes gradually toward the shoulder instead of curving rather abruptly outward, the neck will appear longer; a thin neck presents a longer appearance than a thick and muscular one. The length of the cervical portion of- the spinal column does not vary much in different persons. The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, because of its prominence throughout its course, is the great landmark of the neck, and extends from the sterno-