SURGICAL ANATOMY. 76 overlaps the outer side of the artery, a small incision should be made in the inner side of the sheath, and the needle passed from without inward, avoiding the inter- na^jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The opening in the sheath should be small, so that the vasa vasorum and the nutrition of the vessel will not be unnecessarily disturbed. In exposing the carotid sheath, the superior or middle thyroid vein and the middle sterno-mastoid artery may be severed. In the inferior carotid triangle the artery is ligatured with more difficulty and danger, because it is deeper and covered by three layers of muscles : the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid ; and, on the left side, the internal jugular vein turns forward in front of the artery at the root of the neck to join the subclavian vein. Intercarotid body or ganglion.—This small, oval, reddish-brown body is situated in the interval between the external and internal carotid arteries, behind the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. It receives filaments from the sympathetic nerve, and resembles the coccygeal body or Luschka's gland. The Pneumogastric or Vagus Nerve.—The pneumogastric nerve, the tenth and longest of the cranial nerves, has an extensive area of distribution. It supplies branches to the dura mater, external ear, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, trachea, bronchi, lungs, stomach, spleen, liver, and to the sympathetic system of nerves in the cervical, thoracic, and abdominal regions. It leaves the cranial cavity at the jugular foramen, inclosed within the same sheath of the dura mater as the spinal accessory nerve. It runs downward between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, passing next between the internal jugular vein and the common carotid artery, lying behind and between them in the posterior com- partment of their sheath. It enters the chest at its superior opening. On the right side it passes between the first portion of the subclavian artery and the subclavian vein, while on the left side it runs between the first portion of the subclavian artery and the common carotid artery, beneath the left innominate vein. Its course in the chest will be included in the description of that part of the body. The pneumogastric nerve, owing to its position between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, is closely associated with the glosso- pharyngeal, spinal accessory, and hypo-glossal nerves. These nerves accompany the internal carotid artery but a short distance, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve curving forward between the external and internal carotid arteries, the spinal accessory nerve turning backward beneath the internal jugular vein, and the hypo-glossal nerve curving forward over the internal and external carotid arteries and the root of the occipital artery. There are two ganglia on the pneumogastric nerve : the ganglion of the root, and the ganglion of the trunk. The ganglion of the root is a small, rounded swelling seen upon the nerve as it lies in the jugular foramen. The ganglion of the trunk