5G8 S i'RGICAL ANA TOM Y. tlie temporo-sphenoid lobes will not include the optic tlialami. It will expose, from within outward, the septum hicidum, the lateral ventricle with the corpus callosum above it, the caudate nucleus, the internal capsule, the lenticular nucleus, the external capsule, the claustrum, the white matter, the island of Keil, and the fissure of Sylvius. The wedge shape of the lateral ventricle is plainly shown in this section, as is also the formation of its outer wall and part of its floor by the sloping caudate nucleus. The lenticular nucleus is clearl}^ separated into three portions, defined by fine white curved 'lines extending between them. When these sections are made further back, the anteriorly situated parts become smaller, and finally disappear, while the more jjosteriorly situated parts gradually increase in size ; the caudate nucleus grows smaller and recedes toward the upper and outer angle of the lateral ventricle, while the optic thalamus occupies an increasing amount of the lower part of the outer wall of the lateral ventricle. Notable changes in the n:iedian line also occur, the fifth ventricle and the septum lucidum vanish, and the fornix and third ventricle appear instead, while the infun- (libulum, mainniillary bodies, and posterior perforated spaces successively appear at the base. The crura cerebri at first a})pear to be separated, gradually coming closer, until they merge. The locus niger is distinctly visible, as are also the two adjacent divisions of the crura cerebri. Tlie upper or front end of the ]X)ns comes into view, and at its upper edge the ac^ueduct of Sylvius appears. The velum interpositum, containing the choroid plexuses, becomes wider as the sections pass backward. The ta'uia' semicirculares, the dentate fasciae, the hippocampal gyri, and the middle cornua of the lateral ventricles are also seen in these sections. No study of the cerebrum is complete without a careful consideration of these sections, as they portray exactly the relations of the cortex and intra-encephalic parts to one another. Sagittal sections do not offer so wide a field for the study of these relations, because of the rapiil loss of important structures as the median line is departed from, though the length of the basal ganglia, and particularly of the caudate nucleus, is better shown in these sections than in other ways.