THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. 379 The choroid contains so much pigment that it is one of the few structures affected by primary melanotic sarcoma. The ciliary nerves have two sources of origin—the long ciliary nerves arise from the nasal branch of the oplithalmic nerve, and the short ciliary nerves spring from the lenticular ganglion. They pierce the sclera around the optic nerve, and pass forward between the sclera and the choroid ; at the posterior part of the globe they groove the inner surface of the sclera and are intimately attached to it. They pass forward to the ciliary body, where they break up to form a plexus, from which fibers are distributed to the ciliary muscle, the iris, and the cornea. Compression of these nerves against the resisting sclera in increased intra-ocular tension, as in glaucoma, causes intense pain in the eyeball and anesthesia of the cornea. The ciliary arteries consist of the short posterior, long posterior, and anterior. The short j)osterior ciliary arteries are from twelve to twenty in number; they pierce the sclera around the optic nerve, and are distributed to the choroid. The long posterior ciliary arteries pierce the sclera just external to the circle formed by the perforations for the short ciliary arteries, and run forward in the choroid. In the ciliary body around the attached margin of the iris they anastomose Avitli the anterior ciliary arteries. These inosculations form the circulum iriclis major; branches from this circle enter the iris, and at the outer margin of the sphincter muscle of the iris anastomose and form the circulum iriclis minor. The anterior ciliary arteries are eight in number, two arising from each of the arteries which supply the rectus muscles. They pierce the sclera near the sclero- corneal junction, and enter into the circulum iridis major. The ciliary arteries and nerves are also described with the orbit. The veins which have their origin in the middle coat of the eyeball are the vense vorticose and the anterior ciliary veins. The venx vorticosas have been previously described with the choroid and the orbit. The anterior ciliary veins arise from small veins in the ciliary muscle, and pierce the sclera near the margin of the cornea, receiving veins connected with the canal of Schlemm. They also receive conjunctival and episcleral veins, and empty into the veins which accom- pany the arteries to the rectus muscle. Dissection.—The choroid, ciliary body, and iris should be carefully stripped from that eyeball in which they were exposed. This should be done under diluted alcohol, and when completed, the retina will be seen. If a po3-tion of the detached choroid is inspected, on its inner surface irregular black patches will be observed. These are fragments of the pigment layer of the retina which have become detached on account of their firm adhesion to the lamina vitrea of the choroid.