403 THE ORGAN OF HEARING. Nerve Supply.—The sensory nerves of the pinna are derived chiefly from the auriculo-temporal and aurieularis magnus, aUhoiigh filaments are contrihuted by the occipitalis minor and the auricular branch of the vagus nerve; the motor nerves to the muscles of the auricle are derived from the facial nerve. As the back of the pinna is supplied l)y the aurieularis mtignus and small occipital nerves and the lobule by the aurieularis magnus nerve, pain in the pinna may be caused by irritation of the cervical nerves in caries of the cervical vertebrge or by enlarged cervical lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the pinna are numerous, and pass to the preauricular or superficial parotid lymphatic glands and to the posterior auricular lymphatic glands. The External Auditory Canal is a slightly curved passage, convex upward, which leads inward and a little forward for a distance of about twenty-four milli- meters, or one inch, to the membrana tympani. The highest portion of the canal is about at its middle. Drawing the pinna upward and backward has a tendency to straighten the canal; this is done prior to inspection of the canal or to introduction of instruments. Owing to the obliquity of the tympanic mem- brane, the anterior and inferior walls of the external auditory meatus are the longer, and the internal extremity of the canal is wedge-shaped, terminating in a narrow recess—the sinus of the external auditory meatus. Small foreign bodies which have lodged in the sinus of the canal must be removed carefully, as the instruments must ap^Droach the membrana tympani closely. The meatus is elliptic at the external orifice, the vertical diameter of the canal being the greater; near the membrana tympani the transverse diameter is the greater. Although the orifice of the external meatus is elliptic, ear specula which are round are more desirable than the elliptic instruments, for they can be rotated while being introduced. The outer one-third of the wall of the external auditory meatus is cartilaginous and continuous with the cartilage of the pinna; this portion is about eight millimeters, or three-eighths of an inch, in length, and the cartilage presents one or two fissures, known as the incisurae Santorini, Avhich are filled with fibrous tissue. The inner or osseous portion is somewhat longer, and measures less in diameter than the cartilaginous portion, its average length being about sixteen millimeters, or five-eighths of an inch. At birth the osseous portion is represented merely by an incomplete bony ring,—the annulus tympanicus,—and s. mass of epithelial cells and cerumen fills the canal. The integument lining the meatus is thin, and firmly attached to the under- lying parts; consequently inflammatory processes, such as furuncles, are accom-' panied by considerable pain ; the cutaneous lining is continued over the tympanic membrane as a delicate covering, forming the outer layer of that structure.