SURGICAL ANATOMY. 224 deep cervical, submaxillary, and lingual lymphatic glands, so that the involved glands may not be the source of a secondary growth. Occasionally the submaxil- larp salivary gland, which contains two or more lymphatic glands, should also be removed. The isthmus of the fauces is the large orifice of communication between the mouth and the pharynx. It is bounded above by the soft i:)alate, below by the base of the tongue, and on each side by the pillars of the fauces. The under surface of the Soft Palate, which is seen through the mouth, is concave, and its mucous membrane is continuous with that of the hard palate. It presents a median raphe which marks the line of union of the halves. The Uvula is the conic process which is suspended in the isthmus of the fauces from the middle of the free border of the soft palate. The pillars of the fauces, or pillars of the soft palate, are ridges in the mucous membrane which extend outward and downward from the uvula. There are two pillars on each side—an anterior and a posterior pillar. The anterior pil- lars extend downward, outward, and forward to the sides of the base of the tongue. They contain the palato-glossus muscles. The posterior pillars are directed downward, outward, and backward, and fade away upon the lateral wall of the pharynx. They are produced by the palato-pharyngeus muscles. A triangular depression exists on each side between the anterior and the posterior pillar, and is termed the recess of the fauces, or tonsillar recess. The Tonsils are two oblong rounded bodies, situated in the recesses of the fauces. They vary in size in different individuals, but should not project beyond the anterior pillars of the fauces. The internal surface of the tonsil is covered by the oral mucous membrane, and presents from ten to fifteen puncture-like orifices, which lead into recesses called crypts. The crypts are lined by exten- sions of the oral mucous membrane. The tonsils are compound follicular glands —i. e., they contain a number of aggregations of lymj^hoid tissue similar to that of the solitary glands of the intestines. They are enveloped by a fibrous capsule. The secretion of the tonsil is derived from the mucous glands in the mucous membrane lining the crypts, and contains numerous epithelial and lymphoid cells. Inspissation of the mucous secretion in the crypts of the hypertrophied tonsils gives rise to the formation of cheesy jdugs, which contain decomposing epithelium, emit a foul odor, and produce fetid breath. It is quite probable that germs in tlie stagnant secretion in the crypts of the tonsils enter the lymphatic vessels, and cause many of the cases of inflam- mation and tuberculosis of the deep cervical chain of lymphatic glands. Blood Supply.—From the ascending pharyngeal branch of the external