THE ORBIT. 317 because of the greater space between the eyeball and the outer wall and the out- ward slope of that wall, which makes a larger angle with the optic nerve than does the inner wall. The inner wall of the orbit is formed by the nasal process of the superior maxilla, the internal angular process of the frontal bone, the lacrymal bone, the os planum of the ethmoid bone, and the body of the sphenoid bone. Near the base of the orbit the inner wall presents a large depression—the lacrymal groove— which lodges the lacrymal sac and below leads into the lacrymal canal, which is lined by the muco-periosteal wall of the lacrymo-nasal duct. In the inner wall of the orbit, and separated from that cavity by a thin bony partition, are the ethmoid cells and the sphenoid cell or sinus. Tumors, empyema, or mucocele of these cells may encroach upon the orbit, displace the eyeball, and cause diplopia. Measurements.—The antero-posterior diameter of the orbit is about one and three-fourth inches. At the base the vertical diameter is about one and one- fourth inches, and the transverse diameter about one and one-half inches. The orbit is widely open anteriorly, and posteriorly it is in communication with the cranial cavity through the optic foramen and the sphenoid fissure, and with the pterygo-maxillary region and spheno-maxillary fossa through the spheno- maxillary fissure. Blood may be extravasated into the orbit after fracture of one of the walls of that cavity, more colximonly the roof. Tumors, blood, or pus may enter the orbit from the pterygo-maxillary region through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and from the cranial cavity through the sphenoid fissure. Blood extravasated into the orbit produces subconjunctival ecchymosis. Dissection.—According to the level at which the calvaria has been removed, there will be found remaining more or less of the vertical plate of the frontal bone, covered in front by the soft parts. The soft tissues should be turned down after making two incisions down to the bone, one running vertically upward from the nasion and the other running parallel to the vertical incision, and start- ing from the external angular process of the frontal bone. Should there be much of the vertical plate of the frontal bone remaining, it should be removed with hammer and chisel almost as far down as the supra-orbital arch. The roof of the orbit should now be removed, either entirely or all of it except the supra-orbital margin, as suggested by Cunningham. In the former method two cuts, converg- ing at the optic foramen, are made with a saw, leaving the bone around the optic foramen undisturbed, and then, by a firm tap with a mallet, breaking away the orbital roof, and turning it forward. In Cunningham's method the thin plate of bone covering the orbit is removed with a chisel and mallet, leaving intact the