196 SURGICAL ANATOMY. is at its origin, and is about one inch in length. The internal carotid artery begins at the bifurcation of the common carotid artery, which is opposite the upper hor- de!? of the thyroid cartilage. At first it lies external to and on the same plane as the external carotid artery, but it gradually passes beneath the latter vessel. In front of it in this location are the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides mus- cle, superficial layer of the deep fascia, anterior border of the steriio-mastoid muscle, and the wall of the carotid sheath ; behind it are the pneumogastric nerve, prevertebral fascia, superior sympathetic ganglion, and rectus capitis anticus major muscle ; to the outer side are the pneumogastric nerve and internal jugular vein ; and to the inner side are the external carotid artery, ascending })haryngeal artery, and pharynx. The patient should be placed in the same position as for liga- ture of the common carotid artery. An incision three inches long is made over the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the center of the incision being slightly above the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided. The sterno-mastoid muscle is drawn outward, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle upward, the external carotid artery inward, and the internal carotid artery outward. The anterior wall of the sheath of the artery should be carefully opened, and the needle passed from without inward, away from the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve. In many cases the facial and lingual veins cross the internal carotid artery to empty into the internal jugular vein. Collateral Circulation.—The collateral circulation is established by the anastomosis of the vertebral arteries and opposite internal carotid with the liga- tured artery through the circle of Willis. Irregularities.—The irregularities of the internal carotid artery which are of importance are the following: It may arise from the arch of the aorta or the innominate artery ; its cervical portion may be tortuous; it may give origin to the occipital artery. OPERATIONS UPON NERVES OF HEAD AND NECK. The supra-orbital nerve is ex[)osed at tlie su[)va-orl)ital notch or foramen, whicli is located at the junction of the middle one-tiiird witli the inner oiie-tliird of the supra-orbital margin. The eyelid is drawn downward and tlie eyebrow held steady w'hile a transverse incision is mad(^ along the su]H'a-()i-bital margin. The incision is one-half to three-fourths of an inch in length and dividi's skin, superficial fascia, and orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. The nerve is now