DISSECTIOX OF THE XECK. 45 The superficial cervical nerve (superficialis colli) is a branch of the anterior divisions of the second and third cervical nerves. It winds around the middle of the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid muscle, pierces the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, and passes transversely over the muscle beneath the external jugular vein, receiving a communicating branch fi'om the infra-maxillary branch of the facial nerve. It divides into an ascending and a descending branch ; the former sends filaments to the external jugular vein, communicates •with the infra-maxillar\- branch of the facial nerve, and supplies the platysma myoides muscle and the skin of the front of the neck as far as the chin ; the latter supplies the skin of the lower half of the front of the neck. The descending branch of the plexus arises fi'oui the anterior divisions of the third and fourth cervical nerves, emerges from beneath the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid muscle, pierces the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, and di^-ides into the supra-sternal, supra-clavicular, and supra-acromial ners-es. The inner or supra-sternal twigs pass over the clavicular and sternal origins of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and supply the integument over the inner end of the claA'icle and the upper part of the sternum ; the middle or supra-clavimlar branches cross the middle of the clavicle, supply the integument over the upper fore part of the deltoid and upper part of the pectoralis major muscle and the mammary gland, and communicate with the small cutaneous branches of the upper intercostal nerves; the external or supra-acromial branches cross the upper surface of the trapezius muscle and the acromion process, and supply the integument of the upper, outer, and back part of th3 shoulder. Herpetic eruptions in the area of distribution of the superficial branches of the cervical plexus (herpes cervico- occipitalis) are occasionally seen. In caries of the cervical vertebrae pain may be referred to the areas of skin supplied by these nerves. It is through the descend- ing branches of the cervical plexus that pain is referred to the neck in carcinoma of the mammary gland. The infra-maxillary branch of the cervico-facial division of the facial nerve emerges from the lower border of the parotid gland, and passes downward and forward under the platysma myoides muscle, which it supplies, and commu- nicates with the superficial cervical nerve. The deep cervical fascia, like the deep fascia in other portions of the body, consists of a superficial layer which surrounds the underlying muscles, vessels, and nerves, and of processes prolonged inward to form separate sheaths for the jnus- cles and vessels, thus isolating and helping to retain them in their proper positions. It varies in strength, being strongest below the angle of the lower jaw, above the cla"\ncle, and in front of the trachea. In stud^'ing this fascia will be found more satisfacton,' to trace it from behind, where it is attached to the ligamentum nuchge