248 SURGICAL ANATOMY. fold of raucous membrane ; and at the sides, by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds and the tips of the arytenoid cartilages. The aryteno-epiglottidean folds extend from the sides of the epiglottis to the summits of the arytenoid cartilages. They are composed of two layers of mucous membrane, between which are a supporting layer of connective tissue ; the cor- nicula laryngis, which rest upon the summits of the arytenoid cartilages ; the cunei- form cartilages, wdiich lie in front of the arytenoid cartilages; and the aryteno- epiglottidean muscles. In viewing the larynx from above, the coi-niculum laryngis and cuneiform cartilage appear as two small swellings in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. In these folds there is much loose submucous tissue, which is the chief site of the swelling in edema of the larynx. This swelling may be so extensive as to interfere seriously with the entrance of air into the larynx, and laryngotomy, tracheotomy, or intuliation may become necessary. The sinus pyriformis, which is between the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, the three glosso-epiglottidean folds, and the valleculae, between the epiglottis and the base of the tongue, have been previously described. Two pairs of folds may be seen stretching across the cavity of the larynx. The vi})per jiair is formed by the false vocal cords, and the lower pair by the true cords, which are more closely approximated. A depression—the ventricle of the larynx—exists between the true and false cords. The interval between the true vocal cords is the chink of the glottis, or rima glottidis. The true vocal cords divide the larynx into a su])ra-rimal and an infra-rimal portion. The Supra-rimal Portion of the larynx extends from the superior aperture to the true vocal cords. It is wide and triangular above, and becomes narrow below. The Infra-rimal Portion is compressed laterally above, and l)ecomes circular below, where it is surrounded by the cricoid cartilage and leads into the trachea. In laryngotomy the knife enters this portion of the larynx and is directed down- ward and backward to avoid the vocal cords. Dissection.—Clean the anterior portion of the external surface of the larynx, entirely removing the attachments of the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and thyro- hyoid muscles from the liyoid bone, those of the thyro-Jiyoid and sterno-tliyroid muscles from the thyroid cartilage, and the attachments of the inferior constrictor muscles of the pharynx from the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Avoid injuring the superior laryngeal artery and the internal branch of the suj)erior laryngeal nerve, which pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane ; the external laryngeal nerve, which supplies the inferior constrictor and the crico-thyroid muscle ; the crico- thj'-roid artery, which crosses the crico-thyroid membrane ; and the recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior laryngeal artery, which pass to the larynx behind