THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 499 The gyrus fornicatus lies between the calloso-marginal fissure and the callo- sal fissure. It commences in front of the anterior perforated space, between the rostrum of the corpus callosum and the marginal convolution, follows the super- ficial surface of the corpus callosum, and terminates below the splenium of the corpus callosum in a narrow extremity, the istJimus, which joins the hippocampal convolution. The Limbic Lobe includes a number of convolutions arranged in a ring-like manner; some of the parts are quite rudimentary in the human brain, and are the representatives of more highly developed structures in some of the lower animals. The limbic lobe is made up of the gyrus fornicatus, hippocampal gyrus, the rudi- mentary gyrus supra-callosus of Zuckerkandl (formed by the peduncles of the corpus callosum, fascia dentata, and the longitudinal strise on the upper surface of the corpus callosum), together with half of the fornix and the corresponding lamina of the septum lucidura. This lobe is bounded by the calloso-marginal and collateral fissures, and each extremity of it is continuous with one of the roots of the olfactory tract. CRANIO-CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY. Sensory and Motor Areas.—Having completed the study of the fissures, the lobes, and the convolutions of the hemisphere of the cei'ebrum, consider the func- tions of the convolutions in certain areas of the surfaces of the cerebrum before commencing the dissection of that part of the brain. The two principal regions of the hemisphere are the motor area and the sensory area. The motor area com- prises the posterior ends of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions, the ascending frontal convolution, the ascending parietal convolution, and the adjoining part of the superior parietal convolution. The sensory area of the surface of the cerebrum has been imperfectly outlined on account of the greater difficulty attending its localization. The Silent Region.—The anterior two-thirds of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions, or that portion of the frontal lobe which practically lies in advance of the coronal suture with the brain in its natural position, is the prefrontal or silent region of the brain, Avhere, if a lesion be present, it does not give rise to any localizing symptoms. The author has frequently seen the prefrontal region severely injured in gunshot wounds with entire absence of any paralj'tic symptoms. He has also seen cases of abscess of this region with similar absence of any localizing symptoms. One case in particular in his experience was that of a large abscess of the left prefrontal region, which followed a punctured fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The patient was a boy, who, while playing with a hoisted umbrella, threw it up in the air. In its descent it turned,