SURGICAL ANATOMY. of the vagina, especially if those parts of the intestine contain feces. At the pos- terior fornix of the vagina the body and fundus of a retroverted uterus, tumors of the ovaries , distended Fallopian tubes, and the most tender point in a terminal appendicitis with the appendix directed into the pelvis may be palpated. The Urethro-vaginal Triangle embraces the external genitalia (vulva, or pudendum). The vulva, or pudendum, includes the mons veneris, the labia majora, the labia minora (nymplut), the clitoris, the vestibule, the external urinary meatus, the orifice of the vagina, upon each side of which are the orifices of the glands of Bartholin (vulvo-vaginal glands), the fourchet, the fossa navicu- laris, the posterior commissure, and the vertical cleft or longitudinal fissure (the uro-genital furrow). In a himannal examination the uterus can be engaged between the finger in the vagina and the fingers of the other hand on the lower part of the hypogastrium, provided the bladder is approximately empty and the uterus is in its normal posi- tion. If a speculum be introduced into the vagina, the cervix uteri can be observed. In a virgin uterus the external os uteri is round, and in a uterus which has borne children the external os is transverse and elliptic. The anterior lii^ of the cervix is shorter and thicker than the posterior lip. Dissection.—In making a dissection of this region, the vagina and rectum should be partly distended with oakum or any suitable material, and the adjacent surfaces of the labia majora and the margins of the anus approximated by stitches. Tlie skin is removed in one flap from behind forward, and the superficial fascia from before backward, as in dissecting the male perineum. These tissues are supplied with vessels and nerves from the same corresponding sources as in the male. The Superficial Fascia consists of two layers—a superficial and a deep. The superficial layer is much richer in iai than in the male, and is continuous with the superficial fascia covering the anal triangle and with the same layer of the super- ficial fascia of the thighs and abdomen. As in the male, the deep layer is found only in the perineum proper, and its attachments are similar to those of Colles' fascia. It is not so strong as in the male, and internally it is continuous with the dartos of the labia majora. The unstriped muscular fibers forming the dartos are not so alnmdant as in the male. Internally, the dartos is divided by the pudendal cleft, and is continuous with the fibrous coat of the vagina. The superficial fascia of the perineum bulges and is thickest at each side of the pudendal cleft, forming the labia majora. This mass of fat is widest and fullest at the side of the orifice of the vagina and narrowest at the side of the vestibule. Tlie mass is tlie pudendal sac, which is the homologue of the -sac formed b}- the dartos of the scrotum. It contains fat, overlies the site of the Imll) of the vagina,