SURGICAL ANATOMY. 176 tubercle of the transverse process of tlie sixth cervical vertebra (carotid tubercle) is the guide to the vertebral artery, for the reason that it is usually the first ti^nsverse process which is entered by the artcr}'. Just below this tubercle the groove between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles can be felt, and the prevertebral fascia is divided along the inner border of the scalenus anticus muscle. Along the inner border of the scalenus anticus muscle the inferior-thyroid artery can be recognized by its pulsations; the vertebral artery is detected in the same manner, deep in the groove previously mentioned. The vertebral vein and inferior thyroid artery should then be drawn outward, and the needle be passed from without inward. Care is necessary to avoid injuring the internal jugular vein, inferior thyroid artery, vertebral vein, pleura, the right lymphatic duct, and, on the left side, the thoracic duct. The phrenic nerve is not endangered, becau.se it lies beneath the prevertebral fascia on tlie scalenus anticus muscle. Immediately after the artery is tied contraction of the pupil of the same side occurs, due to dis- turl)ance of the vertebral plexus of the sympathetic nerve. This condition is evidence that the inferior th^-roid artery or its ascending cervical branch has not been ligatured instead of the vertebral artery. Irregular Forms.—The left vertebral artery may arise from the subclavian artery at a point unusually near either to the origin or the termination of the first portion of the left subclavian artery. It may arise from the arch of the aorta or the left common carotid arter3\ The right vertel)ral artery occasionally arises nearer to the bifurcation of the innominate artery or to the inner margin of the scalenus anticus muscle. W^hen the right subclavian artery arises from the aortic arch, the right vertebral artery may arise from the right common carotid artery or from the arch of the aorta. When it arises from the left side of the aortic arch, it may pass behind the esophagus. Either vertebral artery may arise from the subclavian as two branches, which later unite, or the vertebral artery may divide while passing upward in the trans- verse processes, one branch entering the spinal canal with the second cervical nerve, and the other pursuing the normal course of the vertebral artery. On each side the vertebral artery frequently enters the passageway in the cervical trans- verse processes, at some other than at the sixth cervical transverse process. It may first enter any of the cervical transverse processes from the second to the seventh inclusive. When the artery first enters the seventh cei'vical transverse process its ligation is difficult, and when it enters above the sixth, the artery lies nearer to the esophagus than normally. The vertebral artery rarely gives origin to the inferior thyroid, superior intercostal, profunda cervicis, or occipital artery. One A'ertebral artery may be larger than the artery of the opposite side. Guides.—The guides to the vertebral artery are the posterior border of the