SURGICAL ANATOMY. 266 lateral crico-thyroid, thyro-arytenoid, thyro-epiglottideus, and aryteno-epiglottideus muscles. Next cut away tlie mucovis membrane and connective tissue from the same side, from the upper border of the true vocal cord to the upper margin of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, preserving intact the cuneiform cartilage which lies in that fold. The lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, both true vocal cords, and one side of the interior of the larynx are exposed b}^ this procedure. The True or Inferior Vocal Cords, or inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, are two pearly white, fibro-elastic bands stretching between the anterior angles (vocal [)rocesses) of the arytenoid cartilages and the retiring angle of the thyroid cartilage on each side of the median line. They are continuous with the lateral portions of the crico-thyroid membrane, and on transverse section are prismatic in form. The free border is directed upward and inward, and vibrates to produce the voice. They are covered internally by a very thin layer of mucous membrane, through which they appear as white bands in luryngoscopic examination. They are longer in the adult male than in women and children. The Rima Glottidis, or chink of the glottis, is bounded in its anterior portion on each side by the true vocal cords, and in its posterior portion on each side by the internal surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages. According to Krause, its length, in the male, varies from nineteen to twenty-five millimeters, and in the female, from fouf- teen to seventeen millimeters. The portion of the chink between the true cords is called the glottis vocalis, for it is closely related to phonation ; the portion between the bases of the arytenoid cartilages is called the glottis respiratoria, because it is closed in phonation, and affords additional space for passage of air in respiration. In ordinary respiration the rima glottidis is almost triangular in shape, but is more nearly of a lanceolate form, as there is a slight angle at the junction of the true cord with the arytenoid cartilage. The apex of the triangle or point of the lance is directed forward, and is situated at the retiring angle of the thyroid car- tilage, the base lying between the arytenoid cartilages. During phonation the rima glottidis is closed, and air is forced through the narrow slit thus formed, causing vibration of the thin free borders of the true cords. The False or Superior Vocal Cords are not concerned in phonation. They are two rounded folds of mucous membrane which cover two elastic bands, the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. Below they present a free, arched border, which bounds the ventricle of the larynx aljove. They are situated above the true cords upon each side of the larynx, but as they are more widely separated, the true cords are seen between them in a laryngoscopic examination. The space between them is called the false glottis. The Ventricles or Sinuses of the Larynx, one on each side, are the depres- sions between the true and false cords. They permit free vibration of the true