THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 511 meters, from the surface of .the bone. Before removing the clot from the sigmoid sinus the internal jugular vein should be ligated, to control hemorrhage and prevent dissemination of emboli. As a thrombus of the sigmoid sinus seldom occurs except as a complication of disease of the mastoid antrum, the latter is usually opened first, and then it is desirable to expose the sinus on its anterior aspect by removing the bony tissue between the antrum and the sinus, which often contains the channels through which the sinus has become infected. Localized Affections.—In operating for focal epilepsy, brain tumor, or blood clot the trephine is applied to the skull directly over the part of the brain believed to be the site of involvement, as determined by localizing symptoms. The lines which indicate the courses of the fissures a're the priiicipal guides. Foreign Bodies.—In the removal—or perhaps it would be better to say the attempt at removal—of a foreign body, as these are most commonly bullets and in the majority of cases located with difficulty, the cranial cavit}^ is attacked at the wound of entrance. The operation of trephining in this class of cases increases the chance of finding the foreign body and establishes drainage. Temporo-sphenoid Abscess.—The most common forms of intra-cranial abscess are temporo-sphenoid, cerebellar, and extradural, which are usually the result of middle ear disease. In operating for temporo-sphenoid abscess, which is usually located in the posterior half of the lobe, first draAv two parallel lines at right angles to Reid's base line, the anterior passing through the center of the external auditory meatus, and the other about one and one-fourth inches, or three centimeters, behind it Apply the center pin of the trephine over a point one and one-fourth inches, or three centimeters, above Reid's base line and between the two vertical lines (Barker). Cerebellar Abscess.—In operating for cerebellar abscess, wdiich is usually situated in the front an<l outer part of the hemisphere of the cerebellum, apply the center pin of the trephine at a point one and one-half inches, or four centimeters, behind the center of the external auditory meatus, and one inch, or two and one- half centimeters, below Reid's base line (Barker). Extradural Abscess.—The point over which to trephine in extradural or subdural abscess must depend, in a great degree, upon the presence of localizing symptoms. The constitutional evidences of pus and the history of the case, together with circumscribed edema and localizing symptoms, such as spastic con- traction or paresis of certain muscles, would constitute the most reliable guides. Septic meningitis, as far as the constitutional symptoms are concerned, frequently so closely simulates cerebral-abscess that a differential diagnosis, in the absence of localizing symptoms, is impossible. To Tap the Lateral Ventricles apply the center pin of the trephine one and