159 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ated near the median line, between the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. These bursse may become enlarged ; that beneath the genio-hyoid muscle, when distended, may simulate a ranula. Like goiters and cj^sts of the thyroid gland, they move with the larynx in deglutition, differing in this respect from sebaceous and dermoid cysts, aneurysms of the carotid arteries, and growths of the lymphatic glands. LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE NECK. The lymphatic glands of the neck are classified as superficial and deep. The Superficial Lymphatic Glands of tlie neck are most numerous along the course of the external jugular vein and posterior jugular vein. This set, the superficial cervical chain, is composed of from four to six glands, and lies beneath the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia in the posterior triangle. The glands of this set are most numerous at the lower part of this triangle. Other small superficial lymphatic glatids are seen in the median line of the neck : one below the symphysis of the lower jaw, two above the l)ody of the hyoid bone, one near the cricoid cartilage, one above the sternum, and some resting upon the trapezius muscle. The superficial cervical chain receives the efferent vessels from the suboccipital and posterior auricular lymphatic glands and some from the parotid and submaxillary l3axiphatic glands, and the lymphatic vessels from the external ear and skin of the neck. Their efl^erent vessels empty into the inferior deep cervical glands. The lowest of the superficial cervical lymphatic glands also receive lymphatic vessels from the infraclavicular glands Avhich are situated in the upper part of the del to-pectoral sulcus. In, secondary syphilis +he super- ficial cervical lymphatic glands along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle are enlarged early and can readily be felt. The Deep Lymphatic Glands of the neck number from twenty to thirty, and are situated along the internal jugular and subclavian veins. They are divided into a superior and an inferior set. The superior set is situated along the internal jugular vein, between the base of the skull and the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. These glands receive the efferent vessels from the internal max- illary lymphatic glands, and some from the submaxillary lymphatic glands, the lymphatic vessels from the cranial cavity, the deep muscles of the upper part of the neck, the posterior part of the tongue, the middle portion of the piiarynx, the upper part of the larynx, and the upj^er part of the thyroid body. Their etTerent vessels empty into the glands of the inferior set. The inferior set is situated along the internal jugular vein, below the bifurcation of the common carotid artery, and extends outward into the suliclavian triangle along the subclavian vein. These glands receive the efferent vessels from the superior deep cervical