THfJ EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. 651 Atrophy of the testicle is natural in old age, but may occur prematurely as a disease. Senile atrophy is produced by fatty degeneration of the seminiferous tubules. Dermoid cysts sometimes develop in the testicle. They are developmental curiosities, and should be removed. Castration is the operation of removal of the testicle. It is a simple procedure, very ancient, and almost as commonly practised on men in the East as it is upon other animals in the Occident. It is a notable practice among the Mohammedans, who castrate their male slaves before placing them as servants in the harems. Castration is performed by making an incision over the testicle, usually in a longitudinal direction. The skin, dartbs, external spermatic fascia, cremasteric fascia, internal spermatic fascia, and the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis are divided and the testicle brought into view, care being taken not to injure the scrotal septum. The testicle is drawn well downward, and the finger passed upward along the spermatic cord. The spermatic cord is freed from its sur- rounding structu^res, and its constituent vessels are ligated separately or en masse. These vessels are : The cremasteric artery, which lies in the fascial investment of the cord ; the spermatic artery, in front of the vas deferens, surrounded by the spermatic or pampiniform plexus of veins; the artery of the vas deferens, close to the vas deferens ; some small veins, and the spermatic duct. The proximal part of the spermatic cord is anchored in the wound and the cord is divided ; the testicle is removed and the wound is closed. Excision of the testicles, is sometimes followed by atrophy of the prostate, a fact established for many years, but lately advocated as a cure for enlarged pros- tate ; but experience has proved that little is gained by the operation. Sterility of the male results from ol:)struction of the ejaculatory duct, vas deferens, or tube of the epididymis, or from inability of the testis to secrete sperma- tozoa, a condition which may be temporary or permanent and is physiologic as a senile change after the seventieth year. Spermatorrhea is a term generally used to designate a passive flow of semen without sexual excitement and without orgasm. It is due to a weakened condi- tion of the ejaculatory apparatus, so that the semen is not retained in the vesiculse seminales, but is permitted to flow into the uretlira as fast as formed. Excessive venery and abnormal sexual gratification are its most fretpient causes, though organic defects of various kinds also give rise to it. The spermatic cord is the pedicle by which the testicle is suspended in the scrotum ; it extends from the upper end of the testis to the internal abdominal' ring. It is composed of: (1) The vas deferens, which can be distinctly felt as a firm and rounded cord back of the vessels and nerves ; (2) the spermatic artery (a