671 FEMALE PERINEUM. bulbs unite at the lower part of the root of the clitoris and extend forward as the slender corpus spongiosum. Rupture of one of the bulbs of the vagina, as the result of an injury, gives origin to a hematoma, known as a pudendal hematocele ; it most frequently occurs in pregnant women. The Vulvo-vaginal Glands {Bartholin's glands) are two compound racemose glands which are the homologues of Cowper's glands in the male, ljut differ from the latter in size and situation. The vulvo-vaginal glands are placed on the deep surface of the inferior layer of the triangular ligament, and are invested by a capsule formed by fibers from the deep surface of the ligament, Avhereas Cowper's glands lie in the substance of the compressor urethree muscle. They are larger than Cowper's glands, and are placed on each side of the orifice of the vagina on the deep surface of the inferior layer of the triangular ligament just behind the posterior ends of the bulbs of the vagina. They are about the size of a small bean, and measure one-half inch, or one centimeter, antero-j)osteriorly. Their ducts, three-quarters of an inch, or two centimeters, in length, open upon the inner aspect of the posterior part of the labia minora external to the hymen or carunculse myiiiformes, where their orifices are marked by a small red depres- sion at each side of the pudendal cleft. Abscess of these glands and cystic dilata- tions of their ducts sometimes occur. The Triangular Ligament of the Female Perineum is similar to that liga- ment in the male ; it consists of two layers—an inferior layer, or triangular ligament l^roper, and a superior layer derived from the ol)turator division of the pelvic fascia. It is larger in the female than in the male, on account of the greater size of the outlet of the female pelvis, but it is weaker in the female because pierced by the vagina. AVhere the ligament is pierced by the vagina, it blends with the fibrous coat of that canal. The inferior layer is pierced by the vagina, urethra, anterior superficial perineal nerve, superficial perineal vessels, artery of the bulb, artery of the corpus cavernosum, dorsal artery, and nerve of the clitoris. The dorsal vein of the clitoris passes between the transverse perineal ligament and the subpubic ligament. The Ischio-perineal Ligament is that strong portion of the triangular liga- ment attached laterally to the inner sides of the ischial rami just in advance of the tuberosities, extending mesially to be lost in the perineal body. Dissection.—Next search for the prominence formed in the inferior layer of the triangular ligament by the vulvo-vaginal glands. After examining these glands, reflect the inferior layer of the triangular ligament backward as far as the posterior margin of the compressor urethrse or deep transverse perineal muscle thus removing the superficial wall of the deep intra-aponeurotic space of the peri- neum. Then trace the artery of the bulb, and reflect the bulb forward.