SURGICAL ANATOMY. 270 ment connecting the cornicula laryngis with the cricoid cartilage {ligamentum jugale), the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, which are located in the false cords, the inferior thyro-ar^'tenoid ligaments or true vocal cords, and the glosso-epiglot- tidean and hyo-epiglottidean ligaments. The Cartilages of the Larynx are nine in number—viz., the epiglottis, thy- roid, and cricoid, which are unpaired, and two arytenoid, two cornicula laryngis, and two cuneiform cartilages. The epiglottis is composed of yellow elastic cartilage. It is leaf-like in form, its stalk being directed downward and attached to the internal surface of the angle of the thyroid cartilage by an elastic band—the tliyvo-epiglottidean ligament. Its uppermost portion is free, and is situated behind the lowermost portion of the base of the tongue, the greater part of which holds a vertical position above it. Its postero-wferior surface is covered by mucous membrane. It is concave from side to side, looks toward the larynx, and contains numerous pits, which are occu})ied by mucous glands. About its center this surface projects backward and forn:is a low eminence, the cushion or tubercle of the epiglottis. Its a)dero-supcrior surface, except in its uppermost portion, is not covered by mucous membrane. It is convex from side to .side and looks toward the thyro-hyoid membrane, hyoid bone, and a small portion of the base of the tongue. This surface is attached to the thyro-hyoid membrane by intervening fat and loose, cellular, elastic tissue, called the periglottis.- It is attached to the hyoicl bone by the hyo-cpiglottidean liga- ment or hypoglossal membrane, which is composed of elastic tissue ; and to the base of the tongue by the three glosso-epiglottidean folds, which contain three deli- cate elastic glosso-epiglottidean ligaments. The lateral margins are curved backward ; and for nearly their whole extent are attached to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Into these margins the aryteno-epiglottidean and thyro-epiglottidean muscles are inserted. Its upper ])order is free and curls forward. The epiglottis is the door which guards the superior aperture of the larynx. It lies in a vertical position during respiration and phonation, and, dropping back- ward, closes the superior aperture of the larynx during deglutition. It is drawn forward into the vertical position by muscles which are attached to the tongue and hyoid bone—i. e., the genio-hyo-glossus, genio-hyoid, and mylo-hyoid muscles. The epiglottis is depressed by the aryteno-epiglottideus and thyro-epiglottideus muscles ; they are small and have but slight power. Occlusion of the superior aperture of the larynx is produced by elevation of that organ ; by this means the larynx approaches the base of the tongue, and the epiglottis is brought against the iiiargins of the superior aperture of the lar3'nx. After the epiglottis has been destroyed l)y ulceration, food and liquids may enter the larynx during deglutition ; to j)revent such a disaster the patient should I