262 S UR GICA L A XA TO MY. Nerve Supply.—From the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Action.—It pulls the epiglottis backward and compresses the laryngeal pouch, and with the assistance of the arytenoideus muscle acts as a sphincter of tlie ^perior aperture of the larynx. The muscles just described—viz., the two crico-thyroidei, two crico-arytenoidei postici, one arytenoideus, two crico-arytenoi<lei laterales, two thyro-arytenoidei, two thyro-epiglottidei, and two aryteno-epiglottidei—are the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. The extrinsic muscles of the larynx—viz., the sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, stylo-pharyngei, and palato-pharyngei—liave been described with the neck and pharynx. These muscles are assisted by all the muscles which elevate or depress the hyoid bone and laryux or hold the hyoid bone firm. In Laryngismus Stridulus, or laryngeal asthma, there occurs spasm of the muscles of the larynx. This condition occurs most frequently in children, is usually due to reflected irritation, as after eating indigestible food, and may be caused by irritation of the nerve centers in the medulla oblongata. In adults it may be caused by pressure upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve by aneurysms, malignant growths of the esophagus or posterior mediastinal glands, or enlarge- ment of the thyroid body. It may also be produced by irritation from foreign bodies in the larynx or lower part of the })harynx. Nerve Supply of the Larynx.—From the superior laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric nerve. The Superior Laryngeal Nerve divides into the external and internal laryn- geal nerves. The external laryngeal nerve passes downward with the superior thyroid artery, and supplies the crico-th3n'oid muscle. The internal laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane with the superior laryngeal artery, passes downward and backward, ramifies upon the intrinsic muscles in the lateral wall of the larynx, and supplies the mucous membi'ane, sending a branch to the ary- tenoideus muscle. The internal laryngeal nerve is the sensory nerve of the larynx. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve is the motor nerve of the larynx, and reaches it behind the crico-thyroid articulation, where it divides into an anterior and a postei-ior branch. The posterior branch supplies the arytenoideus muscle and the crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle, and communicates with the internal laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve ; the anterior branch supj)lies all the other intrinsic muscles except the crico-thyroid muscle. Paralysis of the Right Side of the Larynx may be caused by pressure upon the right recurrent laryngeal nerve, produced by aneurysm of the first portion of the right subclavian artery or lower portion of the right common carotid artery.