SURGICAL ANATOMY. 284 It is also essential to thoroughly expose the rings of the trachea by clearing away the pretracheal fascia ; such exposure prevents the mistake of introducing the tracheal tube under that fascia, instead of into the windpipe, thereby increasing the respiratory difficulty. In children the cricoid cartilage is sometimes divided in addition to the tracheal rings, thus converting the operation into a laryngo-tracheotoniy. In the low operation the same general rules are observed as in the high operation ; the incision extends from the top of the sternum to the cricoid carti- lage. After division of the skin and fascice, the wound is deepened by blunt dissection, for there is here, of course, more danger of hemorrhage than in the previously described operation. The inferior thyroid veins, or thyroid plexus of veins, which lie upon the pretracheal fascia, should be displaced, and the trachea thoroughly exposed, the forefinger being passed into the wound from time to time as the wound is deepened, in order to ascertain the relations of the tissues, recognize abnormal vessels, and feel the traclieal rings. THE NOSE. The Nose is the uppermost portion of the respiratory tract. It contains the special organs of the sense of smell, and removes particles of dust from and warms and moistens the inhaled air; therefore, when the nasal passages are occluded, disease of the lower portion of the res})iratory tract is more likely to occur. It may be divided into the nose proper and the nasal cavities or fossae. The Nose proper resembles a pyramid with three sides, the posterior of which is wanting and directed toward the nasal cavities. The two lateral surfaces are triangular, covered by skin, and form a part of the face. The apex of the pyramid—the root of the nose—joins the forehead. Below its root it broadens into the bridge or dorsum of the nose. KSinking of the bridge of the nose occurs in children who are affected by congenital syphilis, and who suffer from syphilitic coryza or "snuffles." The severe nasal catarrh modifies the nutrition of the surrounding structures, and causes imperfect development of the adjacent bones. The two lateral borders of the nose are continuous with the face. The antei'ior border is free, and terminates below in the lobule or tip of the nose. The lateral surfaces, below, slope outward into the alae or wings of the nose, which form the lower borders of those surfaces. The base of the nose presents two apertures, the anterior nares, or nostrils, which are separated by a median pillar or columna. The anterior nares are