561 THE CEREBELLUM. jects into the valley. The hemispheres are separated in front by a notch, the in- cisura cerebelli anterior, which lodges the inferior pair of corpora quadrigoniina and the superior cerebellar peduncles ; and behind by another notch, the incisura cerebelli posterior or incisura marsupialis, which is the posterior extremity of the valley and lodges the falx cerebelli. The central lobe, or vermiform process, presents two aspects : an upper, seen as a slight elevation in the middle of the upper surface of the cerebellum, and called the superior vermiform process, and an inferior, which is called the inferior vermiform process. Passing along the free border of each hemisphere is the great horizontal fissure of the cerebellum, which commences at the point where the middle peduncle of the cerebellum enters the hemisphere, and extends backward and around to the other middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The horizontal fissure separates the upper from the lower surface of the hemisphere. Dissection.—Before proceeding further with the study of the cerebellum, remove what remains of the cerebrum by carrying an incision through the optic thalami and the crura cerebri, and detach the pia mater from the cerebellum. The Superior Vermiform Process is the upper surface of the vermiform pro- cess, or middle lobe of the cerebellum, and is raised above the level of the superior surface of the hemispheres of the cerebellum. It is divided into the following lobes : lingula, lobulus centralis, monticulus cerebelli, and folium cacuminis. The lingula overlies the posterior part of the superior medullary velum and is adherent to it. It is attached at its base to the lobulus centralis. The lobulus centralis lies immediately posterior to and below the corpora quadrigemina ; it spreads out laterally into the alse of the hemispheres. The monticulus cerebelli is divided into two parts, the culmen and the clivus, the latter being a sloping part • it is con- nected on each side to the quadrate lobe. The culmen joins the anterior cres- centic division of the quadrate lobe, and the clivus joins the posterior crescentic division. The folium cacuminis, which connects the posterior superior lobes of the hemispheres, is posterior to the clivus. The Upper Surface of Each Hemisphere of the Cerebellum slopes outward and backward from the superior vermiform process, and is divided into two lobes —the quadrate and the posterior superior lobe—by the superior sulcus of the cerebellum, which passes from the commencement of the transverse fissure toward the incisura cerebelli posterior. The quadrate lobe is situated anterior to the sulcus cerebelli superior, and extends nearly to the posterior end of the vermiform process, its lamina? passing without interruption through the monticulus cerebelli into the corresponding lobe of the opposite side. The quadrate lobe is divided by a small fissure into an anterior crescentic and a posterior crescentic lobule. The posterior superior lobe is situated posterior to the sulcus cerebelli superior and 11—36