THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 399 THE ORGAN OF HEARING. The organ of hearing consists of three portions—the external, middle, and internal ear. The External Ear comprises the auricle or pinna and the meatus auditorius externus ; the former is of but slight importance physiologically ; the latter is the canal wliich leads iuAvard to the tympanic membrane. The Middle Ear is composed of the tympanum, the mastoid antrum, and the mastoid cells. The tympanum, an air chamber, comnmnicates with the naso-pharynx by means of the Eustachian tube, and contains a chain of movable bones—the auditory ossicles. The mastoid antrum and mastoid cells are air chamber's accessory to the tympanum. The Internal Ear, or Labyrinth, is made up of a complex arrangement of cavities; it contains a fluid,—the perilymph,—together with a memliranous cast of the bony structures known as the meml;)ranous labyrinth ; the latter contains the endolyniph, and within it are the specialized neuro-epithe- lial cells and the terminations of the auditor}' nerve. THE EXTERNAL EAR. The Pinna consists of a pliable framework of yelk)w, elastic cartilage covered with integument. The external surface is concave, and conducts the sound waves to the external auditory meatus, yet accidental or intentional amputation of the pinna causes but slight diminution in acuteness of hearing. The outer concave surface presents a number of elevations and depressions. The helix is the in- curved border of the pinna. At the free border of the helix there is often to be seen a more or less prominent, rather triangular projection, known as the Dar- winian tubercle; it is analogous to the pointed tip of the ear of quadrupeds. The fossa of the helix is the groove formed by the inward curvature of the helix. In front of the helix, and running parallel with it, is a rounded prominence, the antihelix, which divides anteriorly and above into two portions inclosing the fossa of the antihelix (fossa scaj)hoidea). The antihelix curves around a large con- cavity,—the concha,—which leads to tlie external auditory meatus. Anterior to the concha is a blunt projection, the tragus. This is really a portion of the wall of the external auditory meatus, and to it a number of stiff hairs are often attached. Opposite the tragus is a small projection, the antitragus ; between the two is a notch, the incisura intertragica. The lowest portion of the pinna—the lobule—is devoid of cartilage, and is composed of fil;)ro-areolar and adipose tissue. The lobule may gradually be slit in two by heavy ear-rings, and a fibrous or keloid tumor may arise from the scar which forms where the lobule has been pierced.