SURGICAL ANATOMY. 86 ascends, and enters the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the temporo-maxillary vein and facial nerve. Opposite the neck of the lower jaw it divides into its two teAiinal branches, the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. At first it lies to the inner side of the internal carotid artery, but later becomes superficial to that vessel. Relations.—It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia,' anterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, and a portion of the parotid gland, the temporo-maxillary vein, and the facial nerve. It is crossed by the hypo-glossal nerve, the facial and lingual veins, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the stylo-hyoid muscle, and enters the parotid gland. Along the inner side of the vessel, from below upward, are the wall of the pharynx, the hyoid bone, the ramus of the lower jaw, and the stylo-maxillary ligament, from which it is separated hy a portion of the parotid gland. Beneath it, near its origin, is the superior laryngeal nerve; higher in the neck the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the stylo-hyoid ligament, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and part of the parotid gland separate it from the internal carotid artery. On its outer side, at its origin, is the internal carotid artery. The external carotid artery differs from most of the arteries in not having a companion vein, but a vein formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins does occasionally accom- pany it. A line line drawn from the junction of the sternum with the clavicle, to a point midway between the angle of the lower jaw and the mastoid process repre- sents the course of the common and external carotid arteries. Branches of the External Carotid Artery.—These are the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital, posterior auricular, ascending pharyngeal, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. They may be divided into four sets : an anterior, a posterior, an ascending, and a terminal. The anterior set comprises the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial; the posterior, the occipital, and posterior auricular; the ascending, the ascending pharyngeal; and the terminal, the superficial temporal, and internal maxillary. The superior thyroid artery, the first branch given off from the external carotid, arises just below the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. Throughout the greater part of its course it occupies the superior carotid triangle. It passes forward and then downward and inward behind the omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno-hyoid muscles to the upper and front part of the thyroid body, in which it terminates. Its branches are the hyoid, middle stcrno-mastoid, superior laryngeal, and crico-thyroid arteries. The hyoid (infra-hyoid) artery is very small. It runs inward along the lower