362 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Between the cornea and the insertions of the tendons of the rectus muscles it again becomes thicker, on account of its reinforcement by fibers from tliose tendons. In^isease of the eye, sucli as glaucoma, in which there is increased intra-ocular tension, compression of the ciliary nerves against the unyielding sclerotic coat causes intense jjain. . At its anterior margin the sclerotic coat is directly continuous with the cornea, and the slight groove at this point is called the scleral snlcus. About one-fourth of an inch, or six millimeters, beliind the sclero-corneal junction the sclerotic coat receives the insertions of tlie rectus muscles. At this })oint also it receives and transmits the anterior ciliary vessels, which form a ring around the cornea ; con- gestion of these vessels is evident in iritis. In the sclera, just behind the sclero- corneal junction, is a circular blood channel surrounding tlie margin of the cornea ; it is called the canal of Schlemm. This canal transmits venous' blood, and is in close relation with certain lymph spaces in the pectinate ligament of the iris, called the spaces of Fontana. In conjunction with the spaces of Fontana the canal of Schlemm, l\y absorbing the excess of aqueous humor, is supposed to maintain the normal intra-ocular tension, exaggeration of which results in the grave disease, glaucoma. The lamina cribrosa is in the posterior portion of the sclera, and is the place of entrance of the optic nerve, wliose dural and pial investments blend with the sclera. Minute openings whicli form a circle around the the lamina cribrosa transmit the posterior ciliary vessels and nerves. The point of entrance of the optic nerve is not at the posterior pole or in the visual axis of the eye, but lies about one-tenth of an inch, or 2.5 mm., to the nasal side of, and slightly below, it. As this nerve passes through the sclera it is constricted, and instead of passing as a compact bundle, it is broken up into fasciculi which separately pierce the fibrous lamina mentioned—the lamina cril)rosa. The lamina has an opening in the center larger than the perforations produced by the individual nerve bundles; this is called the porus opticus, and transmits the arteiia centralis retina). Except at the entrance of the optic nerve and the sclero-corneal junction, the sclerotic is but feebly attached to the subjacent vascular coat. Its innermost layer—winch, on account of its dee]i color, is called the lamina fiisca—is in relation with the vascular coat, to which it is attached by a layer of loose comiec- tive tissue called the lamina siipracJioroidea. Tlie cornea is the circular anterior window of the eyeball, and comprises about one-sixth of the circumference of the globe. -It is })erfectly transparent, and is somewhat thinner at its center than at its periphery. Its transparency is lost in interstitial keratitis (inflammation of the corneal tissue), which is frequently caused by syphilis. It is more highly convex than the remainder of the eyeball.