316 SURGICAL ANATOMY. THE ORBIT. » The Orbits are two irregularly conic or pyramidal cavities which contain the eyeballs and their accessory structures—muscles, vessels, nerves, and fat. The walls of each orbit are lined with a loosely attached periosteum or periorbita. The orbit has an a})ex, a l)ase, and four walls. The apex of the orbit is directed backward, and is situated at the optic foramen, through which the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery enter the orbit. The base of the orbit is directed outward and forward, and is the only wall of this cavity which is absent or not filled by bone. The margins of the base are : above, the supra-orbital margin ; below, the infra-orbital margin. They project beyond the eyeball and protect it from injury by blows from large objects. The orbital margins are formed above by the frontal bone; externally, by the malar bone ; internally, by the nasal process of the superior maxilla ; below, b}^ the malar bone and the body of the superior maxilla. The supra-orbital margin contains the supra-orbital notch—a landmark in operations upon the supra-orbital and infra-orbital nerves. This notch is situated at the junction of the inner one-third with the outer two-thirds of that margin, and transmits the supra-orbital vessels and nerves. The roof of the orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal bone and the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. The frontal sinuses frequently project backward into that part of the orbital roof formed by the frontal bone ; conse- quently tumors or an empyema of the frontal sijius may encroach upon the orbit and cause displacement of the eyeball and double vision—dij^lopia. At the outer side, near the base of the orbit, the roof presents a large depression—the lacrymal fossa—for the lacrymal gland ; and at the inner side, near the base of the orbit, the small depression to which the pulley of the superior oblique muscle is attached. On account of the relation between the orbit and the cranial cavity and the tenuity of the intervening bony wall, a foreign body with a sharj) })oint, such as a foil or stick, may enter the orbit, pierce the roof of that cavity, and penetrate the brain without producing an apparently grave external injury. The floor of the orbit is formed by the superior maxilla, the malar l)one, and the orbital plate of the palate bone. Beneath the greater portion of the floor is the antrum of Highmore, tumors of which may encroach upon the orbit, displace the eyeball, and cause diplopia. The outer wall of the orbit inclines obliquely forward and outward, and is formed by the malar bone, the external angular process of the frontal bone, and the greater wing of the si)henoid bone. When dividing the optic nerve in excision of the eyeball, the scissors is more readily introduced on the outer side,