THE MOUTH. 215 The posterior or descending palatine arteries furnish nearly all the nutrition of the hard palate, and lie in the muco-periostevim near the' alveolar processes. The incision into the niuco-periosteum in the operation for cleft of the hard palate should be made near and parallel with the alveolar processes, so that the descend- ing palatine arteries need not be divided and may be retained in the flaps to pro- vide for their nutrition. In dissecting up the flaps the operator should follow the bone closely, as these arteries run nearer to the bone than to the free surface of the muco-periosteum. Bleeding from the posterior palatine artery may be checked by plugging the posterior palatine canal, which can be located to the inner side of the last molar tooth with a sharp probe. Nerve Supply.—From the naso-palatine and great or anterior palatine nerves. Cleft palate, as previously stated, occurs only in the median line. The cleft, may affect only the uvula and soft palate, or it may extend forward through the hard palate to the anterior palatine foramen. If the cleft extend forward beyond this foramen, it leaves the median line and follows the line of the suture at the side of the premaxillary bone, the anterior extremity of the cleft being between the lateral incisor and the canine tooth. If the cleft follow one suture, single harelip is usually present, and if it traverse both sutures, double harelip usually exists and the premaxillary bone is suspended by the vomer. In the operation for the correction of double harelip with projection of the premaxillary bone, the author advises that the attachments of this bone be loosened and the bone be pushed back in place and not removed. The Soft Palate is described with the pharynx. The Mucous Membrane in the floor of the mouth covers the tongue, a small area on each side of that organ, and the triangular area beneath its tip or free end. In the median line, as the mucous membrane is reflected upon the under surface of the tongue, it forms a fold—the fraenum linguae. In some infants the frsenum lingufe is so short that it interferes with sucking, and later prevents distinct articulation. To relieve these cases it is necessary to divide the frenum by snip- ping its free margin with blunt scissors close to the floor of the mouth and then tearing it. This method is adopted to avoid division of the artery of the frenum, with consequent annoying hemorrhage. On each side of the frenum are the small papillae, which contain the orifices of Wharton's ducts. The rounded elevation on each side of the lingual frenum is produced by the sub- lingual glands, which lie im.medlately beneath the mucous membrane. The orifices of the ducts of Rivini are situated ujDon these elevations. In the floor of the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth, the lingual nerve may be felt and divided to relieve pain in the tongue ; when the tongue is drawn out of the mouth