155 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. phrenic nerve and anterior scalene muscle must be borne in mind in operations upon the lower part of the side of the neck. To faradize the diaphragm in suspended respiration, one pole of the battery should be placed over the anterior scalene muscle to stimulate the phrenic nerve. The head should be turned to the opposite side, so that the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle* will not extend so far beyond the phrenic nerve. The author doubts if this procedure is of any value. Dissection.—Divide the trachea, esophagus, common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, the pneuraogastric, sympathetic, and recurrent laryngeal nerves at the lower part of the neck. Separate these structures from the prevertebral mus- cles with the fingers. In order to study the prevertebral muscles and the pharynx, it is necessary to divide the skull so as to leave its posterior portion attached to the prevertebral muscles and its anterior portion attached to the pharynx. Draw the pharjmx well forward ; while an assistant holds a weight or block against the upper surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, divide that process between the attachments of the pharynx and the rectus capitis anticus major muscle with a chisel and a mallet. The chisel should be directed upward and backward. Next saw through the sides of the skull, so as to leave the jugular foramina and carotid canals in the anterior segment. With a chisel separate the petrous portion of the temporal bone from the basilar process. The two portions of the skull can now be separated with a knife ; the two segments can also be separated by sawing from above downward just in front of the foramen magnum. The anterior portion of the skull, with the pharynx and larynx, should be kept moist while the prevertebral muscles are dissected. Dissection.—The remainder of the prevertebral fascia should now be removed. The prevertebral muscles are the longus colli, rectus capitis anticus major, rectus capitis-anticus minor, and rectus capitis lateralis. The longus colli muscle consists of three sets of fibers : a longitudinal, a supe- rior oblique, and an inferior oblicjue set. The longitudinal set arises froni the bodies of the first, second, and third thoracic, and of the sixth and seventh cervi- cal vertebrffi, and passes upward to be inserted into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The superior oblique set arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical verte- brae, and passes upward and inward to be inserted into the anterior tubercle of tlie atlas. The inferior oblique set arises from the bodies of the first, second, and third thoracic vertebrae, and passes upward and outward to be inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. Lying in front of the longus colli muscle are the prevertebral fascia, the pharynx, the esophagus, the sympathetic nerve, the inferior thyroid arter}^, the