337 THE ORBIT. sclera, about one-fourth of an inch behind the sclero-corneal junction, and termi- nate in the great arterial circle around the iris and in the ciliary processes. The ethmoid arteries are two in number—posterior and anterior. The posterior ethmoid artery passes outward between the internal rectus muscle and the superior oblique muscle, and enters the posterior ethmoid foramen. Having reached the posterior ethmoid cells, it gives off branches which nourish their walls and the lining mucous membrane. It then enters the cranial cavity, and gives off branches to a small area of dura mater and nasal branches which pass downward through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the roof of the nose. The anterior ethmoid artery is larger than the posterior ethmoid artery, and traverses the anterior ethmoid foramen in company with the nasal nerve. It accompanies the nerve in the cranial cavity, and out of that cavity through the ethmoid fissure into the nose. Its branches are the following : (1) Ethmoid, to the walls and mucous membrane of the anterior ethmoid cells; (2) meningeal, to the dura mater in the anterior cranial fossa ; (3) nasal, to the outer and anterior part of the mucous membrane of the nose ; (4) frontal, to the frontal sinus ; and (5) terminal, which accompanies the terminal branch of the nasal nerve to the skin of the nose. The muscular branches of the ophthalmic artery are variable in number and origin, and are distributed to the muscles of the orbit. They give off the greatest number, of the anterior ciliary arteries. The palpebral arteries are two in number—superior and inferior. They arise from the ophthalmic artery, either separately or by a common trunk, almost opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. They pass one abo-^e and the other below the tendo oculi, run between the tarsal cartilage and the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, near the edge of the eyelid, and anastomose with the palpebral branches of the lacrymal artery, thus forming a vascular arch in each eyelid. They also supply the lacrymal duct and caruncle and the adjacent conjunctiva. The nasal artery is the lower terminal branch of the ophthalmic rrtery. It leaves the orbit by piercing the orbito-tarsal ligament or palpebral fascia above the tendo oculi. It then passes down the side of the nose, and anastomoses with the angular or lateral nasal branches of the facial artery. The frontal artery is the upper of the terminal branches of the oj^hthalmic artery. It leaves the orbit at the inner canthus of the eyelids by piercing the palpebral fascia, and passes upward on the forehead, anastomosing with the supra- orbital artery, the anterior temporal artery, and the frontal artery of the opposite side. The Ophthalmic Veins are three in number. The}'^ are the common oph- thalmic vein, superior ophthalmic vein, and inferior ophihalmic vein. Neither