SURGICAL ANATOMY. 496 sphenoid fissure, when present, on the outer side. When the inferior temporo- sphenoid fissure is wanting or is incomplete, the lateral boundary of this convolu- tion is indistinct. It extends from the apex of the temporo-sphenoid lobe to the posterior extremity of the occipital lobe. The hippocampal or dentate fissure, previously mentioned as being bordered by the hippocampal convolution, corresponds to the lateral portion of the trans- verse fissure of Bichat. It is situated in front of the calcarine fissure, between the crura cerebri and the hippocampal convolution, and extends outward, downward, and forward from the s})lenium of the' corpus callosum to the uncus. It })roduces the cornu Ammonis or hi})pocampus major, a prominence forming j)art of the inner wall of the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle. By drawing the hii)po- campal convolution away from the crus cerebri, thus widening the hippocamjial fissure, there will be seen a band of gray matter which reaches from the splenium of the corjms callosum to the uncus. This is the free edge of the hippocampal convolution, and its notched appearance is j)roduced by the choroid arteries, wliicli pass tlu'ough the fissure with the }>ia mater into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle; this gi'ay matter is known as the fascia dcntata, or the dentate convolution. The remaining fissures seen on the inner surface of the hemisphere of the cerebrum are the calloso-marginal and the callosal fissure, and the remaining convolution is the gyrus fornicatus. The calloso-marginal fissure, the terminal portion of which was mentioned when describing the location of the fissure of Rolando, commences below the rostrum of the corpus callosum, curves forward around the genu, and backward above the body of the corpus callosum. It runs about midway between the corpus callosum and the U})per border of the hemisphere to a point oi)posite the splenium of the corpus callosum, wliere it turns uj)\vard and slightly Ijackward to terminate on the U])per border of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, immediatel}' behind the commencement of the fissure of Rolando. From the point where the fissure turns upward to reach the margin of the hemisphere there is fre(iuenth'- found, following the original direction of the calloso-marginal, a small fi.ssure which sei)arates the quadrate lolmle from the gyrus fornicatus. This, under the name of the subparietal fissure, is a bnincli of the calloso-marginal, as is also the paracentral fissure. The calloso-marginal fissure is not infi-equently l)ridged over in places by secondary convolutions which connect the marginal gyrus with the gyrus fornicatus. The callosal fissure, or ventricle of the corpus callosum, commences below the rostrum, follows the superior surface of the corpus callosum, and terminates behind the splenium of the corpus callo.sum in the hippocampal fissure.