SURGICAL ANATOMY. 46 and the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra (vertebra prominens). At the ligamentum nuchse the superficial layer immediately begins as two layers, whi^h inclose the trapezius muscle. From the anterior border of the trapezius it passes as a single layer across the posterior triangle of the neck to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. This portion of the superficial layer is attached above to the mastoid process of the temporal and superior curved line of the occipital bone, and below to the clavicle. It is pierced by the external jugular vein directly above the clavicle, behind the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle it again splits into two layers to inclose the muscle, from the anterior border of which it is continued as a single layer across the anterior triangle of the neck to the middle line, where it joins the corresponding layer of fascia of the opposite side. This portion of the superficial layer is attached above to the lower border of the lower jaw and the styloid process of the temporal bone, and in front to the hyoid bone. Near the upper border of the sterimm this layer of fascia divides into two layers, an ante- rior and a posterior, which are attached respectively to the anterior and posterior margins of the upper border of the sternum. Between these two layers is an interval (the supra-sternal intra-aponeurotic space of Griiber) containing some fat, perhaps one or two small lymphatic glands, the sternal head of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the anterior jugular veins, and the transverse branch connecting them. The layer of fascia overlying the sterno-mastoid muscle is continued u.pon the face over the parotid gland and the masseter muscle as the parotid and masseteric fasciae, which are attached to the lower border of the zygomatic arch. The portion of the superficial layer covering the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles is so thin that their fibers can be seen through the fascia. At the angle of the lower jaw this layer of fascia sends a process inward which is attached to the styloid process, and is known as the stylo-maxillary ligament. This ligament separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. From the superficial layer two processes are given off, a posterior and an anterior. The posterior process (prevertebral fascia) arises from the superficial layer at the anterior border of the trapezius muscle, and covers the splenius, levator anguli scapulse, scaleni and prevertebral muscles, subclavian, vertebral, inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and transversalis colli vessels, cervical trunks of the axillary or brachial plexus, phrenic nerve, and cervical sympathetic nerve. This process of fascia passes behind the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, pharynx, and esophagus. It is attached above to the base of the skull; below, to the first rib, as far forward as the anterior margin of the scalenus anticus muscle. To the inner side of this muscle it passes downward into the chest over the longus colli muscle and bodies of the vertebrae. To the outer side of the scalenus anticus muscle it splits to