286 SURGICAL ANATOMY. The lymphatics of the nose proper pass to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. Because of their exposed position and the absence of subcutaneous fat -vvhicli protects underlying vessels, the lobule and aliB of the nose, like the pinna of the e|p, are frequently frozen and may be the site of gangrene resulting therefrom. Dissection.—Remove the tissues covering the nasal bones and lateral car- tilages of the nose. The nasal bones are thick and narrow at their upper extremities, and thin, broad, and much exposed to injury at their lower portion ; consequently these bones are more frequently fractured near their lower margins. A blow at the root of the nose is far more likely to break the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and the anterior walls of the frontal sinuses than the nasal bones. Fractures of the nasal bones may be reduced by manipulation of the fragments between the fingers externally and a grooved director introduced into the nasal fossae. Owing to their vascularit}^, the nasal bones unite quickly. In congenital syphilis destruc- tion of the bones, especially of those of the sei)tum, causes the bridge of the nose to sink. Congenital protrusions of the membranes of the brain or the brain itself may occur at the root of the nose. They are known as sincipital meningo- celes and encephaloceles, and appear because of incomjDlete union of the frontal bone Avith the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and with the nasal bones. The skin over these tumors may be highly vascular and present some resemblance to that over a nevus. The cartilages in the framework of the nose consist of a superior and an inferior lateral cartilage and sesamoid cartilages on each side, and the cartilage of the septum. The superior lateral cartilages are triangular. Their anterior margins are partly continuous with the anterior border of the cartilage of the septum, to which they are closely applied. Their posterior margins are closely united to the superior maxillae and the lower border of the nasal bones. Their inferior borders are attached to the inferior lateral cartilages. Their outer surfaces are covered by the skin and the muscular and fibrous tissue of the nose ; and their inner surfaces by the nasal mucous membrane. When the superior lateral cartilage is detached from the nasal bone by traumatism, considerable pain in the nose is produced by injury of the nasal nerve, which emerges between this cartilage and the nasal bone. The inferior lateral cartilages are sharply l)ent around in front of the anterior nares, so that they are composed of an inner and an outer portion. The inner portion lies in contact with the corresponding portion of the opposite inferior lateral cartilage on the inner side of the anterior naris, forming part of the col- unma. Tlic outer i)ortion is oval and curves backward in the ala of the nose. It V