THE EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. 633 ratio between the size (circumference) of tlie canal as compared with that of tire penis being, according to Otis, about four to nine ; but this is only relative, and varies. The prostatic portion of the urethra is described with the prostate gland.. It is about one and a quarter inches, or three centimeters, in length, and is directed downward and a littl,e forward, being slightly curved, the concavity of the curve being upward. It is the widest and most dilatable portion of the urethra, and contains in its floor the orifices of the sinus pocularis, ejaculatory ducts, and prostatic ducts, and a ridge in the median line—the verumontanum. The membranous urethra extends from the apex of the prostate gland to the superior surface of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It is the narrowest, shortest, and least dilatable portion of the urethra, the only narrower point being the external urinary meatus. Being fixed by its passage through the two layers of the triangular ligament, it is also the least movable portion. It is directed down- ward and forward, and measures from a half to three-fourths of an inch, or one and one-fourth to two centimeters, in length, its upper anterior wall being slightly the longer because of the convergence of the two layers of the triangular ligament as they pass downward and backward. The greater part of it is situated between the two layers of this ligament, is surrounded by the compressor urethrte muscle, and is separated from the subpubic ligament by an interval of about one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, and by the anterior part of the compressor urethrse muscle and a plexus of veins. Postero-laterall}^ it is in relation with Cowper's glands. Its wall contains some non-striated muscle fibers continuous with those of the prostate. In uncomplicated rupture of the membranous urethra the urine passes into the deep perineal interspace, and there causes inflammation and suppuration. The density and attachments of the superficial layer of the triangular ligament prevent the pus from escaping superficially at the perineum proper, and it may burrow backward along the levator ani to the ischio-rectal fossa or upward into the pelvis, and cause pelvic cellulitis. The spongy urethra, like the body in which it lies, has a posterior and an anterior expansion; the former, the bulbous jiorfion,—about one and one-half inches, or four centimeters, in length,—is within the bulb ; and the latter, the fossa navicularis,—about two centimeters long,—is within the glans penis. When there is a tight stricture of the spongy portion of the urethra and ulceration of the mucous membrane behind the stricture, forcible micturition may rupture the urethra. If this accident occurs, the urine escapes into the erectile tissue, and the resulting inflammation may be so active as to cause gangrene of the glands and corpus spongiosum. The External Urinary Meatus is a vertical slit at the apex of the glans, is