85 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. appears as a swelling upon the sympathetic cord. It may, however, be absent. It rests upon or beneath the inferior thyroid artery, opposite the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is formed probably by the fusion of two ganglia, as it communicates with two spinal nerves. It gives off communicating branches to the superior and inferior cervical ganglia, and to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, thyroid branches, and the middle cardiac nerve. The communicating branch to the superior ganglion is the cord of the sympa- thetic nerve. ThQ communicating branches to the inferior ganglion are the main sympathetic cord, which passes behind the first portion of the subclavian artery, and one or two nerves which form a loop {ansa Vieussenii) in front of and below the artery. The thyroid branches accompany the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid body. The middle cardiac nerve, the largest of the three cervical sympathetic cardiac nerves, arises from the middle ganglion or the sympathetic cord just below it. It communicates with the superior cardiac and the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and passes in front of or behind the first portion of the subclavian artery, entering the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cervical ganglion is intermediate in size between the middle and superior ganglia. It is deeply situated between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, and lies to the inner side of the superior intercostal artery, behind the vertebral artery. It is formed prob- ably by the fusion of two ganglia, as it communicates with two spinal nerves, the seventh and eighth cervical. It is joined to the first thoracic ganglion by two large nerves, and may be fused with that ganglion. The sympathetic cord and the ansa Vieussenii connect it with the middle cervical ganglion. It gives off the inferior cardiac nerve and branches which form a plexus on the vertebral artery. The inferior cervical sympathetic cardiac nerve arises from the inferior cervical ganglion, or occasionally from the first thoracic ganglion. It passes behind the subclavian artery, communicating with the recurrent laryngeal and the middle cardiac nerve, and descending upon the trachea to enter the deep cardiac plexus. The branches forming a plexus [vertebral plexus) upon the vertebral artery accompany that vessel into the cranial cavity, after which they follow the basilar and cerebral arteries. It is through this plexus of nerves that contraction of the pupil of the same side results after ligation of the vertebral artery. The External Carotid Artery, so called because it supplies the tissues on the outside of the cranium, is the smaller of the two terminal divisions of the common carotid artery. It arises opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage,