JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 579 glide backward, and the condyle rotates on the cartilage in the reverse direction. These movements result in a combination of a hinge movement of the condyle with fore-and-aft gliding movement of the interarticular fibro-cartilage. Gliding- movement of the interarticular fibro-cartilage forward occurs when the lower jaw and chin are thrust forward. Rotation of the condyle around the vertical axis of the neck of the lower jaw, associated with oblicjue gliding of the inter- articular fibro-cartilage on the glenoid fossa, occurs in the oblique movements of the lower jaw in mastication. The Joints of the Neck are those of the cervical portion of the spinal column, which have been descril^ed in volimie i. Dislocations.—Dislocation of the bones of the vault and base of the skull is almost entirely limited to the young skull. Such an accident rarely occurs in the adult skull, the firm union and overlapping of the bones preventing disloca- tion of these articulations. The squamous suture has been separated by dis- location of the temporal bone. Fractures in the line of the coronal, sagittal, and lambdoid sutures have occurred. Dislocation of the lower jaw is of comparatively rare occurrence, and is usually forward and bilateral. Forward dislocation occurs while the mouth is wide open, as during convulsive yawning, manipulations of dentists, or from blows on the chin. Only a small amount of force is required at such a time to carry the condyle from a position just behind, to a point upon or immediately in front of, the summit of the eminentia articularis. The anterior portion of the capsular ligament is torn; the interarticular fibro-cartilage is usually dislocated with the condyle. The cond^de is retained in its abnormal position by the upward traction of the temporal, masseter, and internal pterygoid muscles. Backward dislocation of the lower jaw may follow a blow on the chin, and the condyle may fracture the bony portion of the external auditory meatus or be driven into the cranial cavity. Excisions.—Excision of the upper jaw is usually performed for malignant disease, as sarcoma or carcinoma of the maxillary sinus or antrum of High- more. Generally but one superior maxilla is removed, although both upper jaws have been removed in one operation. In excising the superior maxilla several anatomic facts are to be remembered. The upper jaw is in reality a shell of bone which envelops the maxillary siims, forms a large part of the floor of the orbit, roof of the mouth, external wall of the nasal fossa, anterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa and pterygo-maxillary region, and bony basis of the front of the face below the infra-orbital ridge. strongest portions are the malar, alveolar, and palatal processes. In the operation of excision of the superior maxillary bone the inferior tur-