THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 459 ary fissures of tlie cerebrum, through -which runs tlie middle cerebral artery ; into this fissure extends the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone, and from the floor of its anterior portion projects the island of Reil, or central lobe of the cerebrum. The Longitudinal Fissure separates the two frontal lobes, and if the cerebel- lum is lifted, the fissure will 1)6 seen to separate completely the two occipital lobes. Corpus Callosum.—By carefully separating the frontal lobes, the beak or rostrum of the corpus callosum will be seen in addition to two white bands,—the peduncles of the corpus callosum,—which are continued backward and outward on each side of the rostrum across the anterior perforated space to the commence- ment of the fissure of Sylvius. The Anterior Perforated Spaces, one on each s;de, are situated at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, Each space is triangular in shape, bounded in front by the frontal lobes and the roots of the olfactory tracts, externally by the apices of the temporo-sphenoid lobes and the fissure of Sylvius, and posteriorly by the optic tract. They are crossed by the peduncles of the corpus callosum and the external olfactory root; they transmit small vessels, chiefly branches of the middle cerebral artery, to' the corpora striata, which lie irnmediately above the spaces. The Optic Commissure or Chiasm, from which arise the optic nerves, lies between the anterior perforated spaces and behind the anterior inferior portion of the lon_gitudinal fissure. It is formed by the union of the optic tracts—two white cords seen running on the outer side of the crura cerebri. The Interpeduncular or Intercrural Space is a lozenge-shaped or quadrilateral area, bounded by the optic commissure in front, the pons A'^arolii behind, and the optic tracts and the crura cerebri at the sides. It contains the tuber cinereum, the intra-dural portion of the infundibulum, the corpora albicantia, the posterior per- forated space, and the oculo-motor nerves. These structures, except the last men- tioned, form the floor of the third ventricle with the exception of its anterior part, which is formed by the structure next to be described—the lamina cinerea. Lamina Cinerea.—To expose the lamina cinerea to the best advantage, dis- place backward the optic commissure, above which it lies. It will then be seen to extend from the beak or rostrum of the corpus callosum, to which it is attached in front, to the tuber cinereum, to which it is attached behind. It is composed of gray matter continuous with the anterior perforated spaces. The Tuber Cinereum is a gray eminence, situated behind the optic commis- sure and in front of the corpora albicantia. It is a hollow conic process coiitinu- ous with the infundibulum, which connects the third ventricle with the pituitary body. The infundibulum pierces the diaphragma sellfB, a process of the dura mater which bridges the pituitary fossa. The Pituitary Body (Hypophysis Cerebri) is the small body which occupies the pituitary fossa or sella turcica and is covered superiorly by the diaphragma