93 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and the ascending pharyngeal artery ; the other branch, the tonsillar, perforates the superior con- strictor muscle of the pharynx, and supplies the tonsil and the Eustachian tube, anastomoses with the tonsillar branches of the ascending pharyngeal and facial arteries, and with the descending or posterior palatine branch of the internal max- illary artery. The tonsillar artery, smaller than the ascending palatine artery, passes up- ward between the internal pterygoid and the stylo-glossus muscle. It perforates the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx opposite the tonsil, and supplies branches to the tonsil and root of the tongue. It anastomoses with the tonsillar branch of the ascending palatine and the other tonsillar arteries. The glandular (submaxillary) branches, three or four in number, supply the submaxillary gland, and are derived from the portion of the artery in contact with the gland ; some twigs usually run to Wharton's duct. The submental artery is the largest of the branches given off from the cervical portion of the facial artery. It arises from this vessel, beneath the sub- maxillary gland. It next runs forward upon the mylo-hyoid muscle, under the lower border of the lower jaw, and beneath the anterior belly of the digastric muscle, to the symphysis of the lower jaw, where it divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch winds over the lower jaw and runs in the superficial fascia of the chin, anastomosing with the inferior labial artery. The deep branch runs beneath the depressor labii inferioris muscle, and anasto- moses with the inferior labial and mental arteries. Its branches are muscular, which supply the adjacent muscles; perforating, which pierce the mj'^lo-hyoid muscle to anastomose with the sublingual artery; and cutaneous, to the overlying skin. The muscular branches supply the posterior belly of the digastric, the stylo- hyoid, the stylo-glossus, the mylo-hyoid, and the internal pterygoid muscle. The facial vein leaves the face at the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle. It passes over the submaxillary gland, the stylo-hypid and posterior belly of the digastric muscle, which separate it from the facial artery. It receives the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein, crosses the external carotid artery, and empties into the internal jugular vein opposite the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. It may be injured in opening abscesses situated where it passes over the submaxillary gland. The occipital artery, quite a large vessel, is one of the posterior branches of the external carotid artery. It arises opposite the facial artery, near the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, along which it runs to the interval between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the transverse