412 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the Eustachian tube is derived from the ascending pharyngeal, middle meningeal, and Mdiau arteries. ^ Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the Eustachian tube is derived from the Vidian nerve and the tympanic plexus. The posterior wall of the middle ear presents at its upper portion a large opening which leads into the mastoid antrum ; through this opening the mucous membrane is continuous from one cavity to the other, so that inflammation in the middle ear may lead to involvement of the mastoid air cells. Below the opening into the antrum, near the inner wall of the tympanum and posterior to the fenestra ovalis, is a hollow, cone-shaped projection known as the pyramid, at the summit of which there is a perforation for the passage of the tendon of the stapedius muscle. External to the pyramid is the iter cliordx posterius, through which the chorda tympani nerve passes. As the Mastoid Antrum and Mastoid Cells communicate with the middle ear, they are cavities accessory to tlie tympa,nic cavity. The mastoid portion of the temporal bone contains numerous spaces, some of which are filled with air ; these communicate with the middle ear, and are called mastoid cells ; other spaces which occupy the tip of the process are tilled with marrow. Of the air cavities, the mastoid antrum, is the largest and most important. Leidy described the mastoid antrum as a part of the tympanum. The Mastoid Antrum is an air cavity of variable size, usually about that of a large pea, or from four to six millimeters in diameter, and is situated posterior to the tympanum, about on a level with the highest part of that cavity. It is lined with mucous membrane or muco-periosteum, which is directly continuous with that of the attic of the tympanum and mastoid cells. The mastoid antrum is present at birth. The roof of the mastoid antrum (tegmen antri) is a thin plate of bone about one millimeter in thickness, situated external to the eminence produced by the superior semicircular canal ; it separates the mastoid antrum from the cranial cavity, and is perforated by minute veins which empty into the su])erior petrosal sinus; at times the tegmen is distinctly cribriform, and it may be partly or wholly absorbed in old age. The floor of the antrum, wdiich is not infrequently on a lower level than the communication between tbe tympanum and antrum, is formed by the substance of the ma.stoid {)ortion of the temporal bone, and usually contains the orifices of some of the other mastoid cells. The anterior wall of the antrum is thin, and may be perforated ; it separates the mastoid antrum from the bony i)art of the external auditory meatus. Inflam- matory processes may extend from the mastoid antrum through this wall to the