THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 557 pyramidal tract of the cord, Avhich enters the pyramidal tract of the medulla oblongata, and the direct cerebellar tract of the cord leaves it to enter the resti- form body. It is bounded in front by the antero-lateral furrow, and behind by the postero-lateral furrow. Emerging from the antero-lateral furrow or hypoglossal sulcus are the roots of the hypoglossal nerve, and from the postero-lateral furrow the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves emerge. As it ascends, the lateral tract of the medulla becomes less marked, the greater portion of it passing beneath the olivary body. Dissection.—To examine satisfactorily the remaining portion of the medulla oblongata, lift it out from the interval between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and displace it forward, thus exposing the posterior surface of the medulla, as well as that portion of the floor of the fourth ventricle formed by the medulla. The Funiculus of Rolando, which lies posterior to the lateral tract and on the outer side of the funiculus cuneatus,- is the upward continuation of a mass of gray matter—the substantia gelatinosa—which caps the posterior cornu of the gray matter of the spinal cord. This funiculus presents an enlargement on a level with the lower end of the olivary body, called the tubercle of Rolando. The Funiculus Cuneatus lies between the llunculus of Rolando and the poste- rior median column or posterior pyramid. It is the widest and thickest of the columns of the medulla. Opposite the clava of the funiculus gracilis it forms a prominence called the cuneate tubercle. The Posterior Pyramid, or Funiculus Gracilis, the continuation upward of the posterior median column of the spinal cord, lies immediately to the outer side of the posterior median fissure. At the lower end of the fourth ventricle it swells out and forms a prominence, called the clava. The cuneate tubercle and the clava are produced by accumulations of gray matter known respectively as the cuneate and gracile nuclei; almost all the fibers of the funiculus cuneatus and funic- ulus gracilis terminate in these nuclei. The Restiform Body appears to be formed by the funiculus gracilis, the funic- ulus cu]ieatus, and the funiculus of Rolando, passes outward and upward, and then enters the cerebellum, forming the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Since the fibers of the funiculus cuneatus and funiculus gracilis terminate in the cuneate and gracile nuclei, they can not, therefore, strictly speaking, be said to be directly continued into the restiform bodies. The following are the more important of the sources from which the fibers of the restiform body are derived: "(1) From the lateral column of the spinal cord, through the direct cerebellar tract; (2) from the convoluted nucleus of the olivary body of the opposite side ; (3) from the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the opposite side ; (4) from the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the same side " (Cunningham). By the divergence of the restiform bodies the lateral