SURGICAL ANATOMY. 180 right side the common carotid artery arises as one of the two terminal branches of the innominate artery, which divides behind the upper border of the right sterffo-clavicular articulation; on the left side, however, it arises within the chest from the arch of the aorta. On both sides the common carotid artery terminates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into the external and internal carotid arteries. In front of the artery are the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, superficial layer of the deep fascia, inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, ante- rior jugular vein, sterno-hyoid muscle, sterno-tliyroid muscle, lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, superior and middle thyroid veins, middle sterno-mastoid artery, omo-hyoid muscle, descendens hypoglossi nerve, ansa hypoglossi, and anterior wall of the sheath. To its outer side are the internal jugular vein and the pncuijio- gastric nerve. On the right side the internal jugular vein at the root of the neck passes outward away from the artery, while on the left side it overlaps the artery and curves forward to empty into the left innominate vein. Behind and to its outer side is the pneumogastric nei've, and behind it are the posterior wall of its sheath, the sympathetic nerve, inferior thyroid artery, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles. To its inner side are the inner wall of its sheath, the trachea, esophagus, recurrent laryngeal nerve, lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, cricoid cartilage, thyroid cartilage, pharynx, superior thyroid artery, and external laryngeal branch of tlie superior lar3'ngeal nerve. It is usually tied in the superior carotid triangle,—above the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid nmscle,—where it is more superficial. In the inferior carotid tri- angle—l)ek)w the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle—the artery is deeper, being in this location covered by additional structures, the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, and overlapped by the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. The omo-hyoid muscle crosses the artery at the level of the cricoid cartilage, the middle thyroid vein crosses just above that muscle, and the superior thyroid vein and middle sterno-mastoid artery cross the artery higher in the sujjerior carotid triangle. In the operation through the superior carotid triangle the patient sliould rest upon the back, with the shoulders elevated, the neck extended, and the face turned slightly to the opposite side. The superficial veins should be located, especially the vein whicli coiniects the submental veins with the anterior jugular vein and runs beneath the platysma myoides muscle parallel to and along the inner side of the anterior border of the sterno-ma.stoid muscle. An incision three inches long .should be made in the line of the artery, so tliat tlie center of the incision will be on a level -with the cricoid cartilage. Skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, superficial vessels and nerves, and the su})erficial layer of the deep fiiscia are divided, tlie connniinieating branch between the anterior jugular and sub-