SURGICAL ANATOMY. 368 of the iris is devoid of pigment (Piersol). The color of the iris may be greatly altered during inflammation of that structure, through effusion into the tissues of the iris. The swelling thus jiroduced causes sluggish movement of the iris, and %icroachment upon the pupil. Blood Supply.—This is derived from the ciliary vessels; consequently, iritis is usually associated witli choroiditis. Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the iris is derived from the ciliary nerves. The radiating muscle fibers are supplied through the lenticular ganglion by the sympathetic nerve, and the circular fibers through the lenticular ganglion by the third cranial nerve. The path for the iris reflex (that is, the contraction and dilatation of the pupil induced by variations in the amount of light falling into the eye) is along the optic nerve and tract to the geniculate body, or perhaps the anterior pair of corpora quadrigemina, thence to the nucleus of the motor oculi, along the latter nerve to the ciliary ganglion, and then through the ciliary nerves to the iris. Interference with this path by lesions in the optic nerves or tracts or in the central nervous system leads to disturbances which the clinician utilizes for diagnostic purposes. Coloboma, or a cleft of the iris, is the most common congenital defect of the iris; it is usually situated below the pupil, and is due to persistence of the choroid cleft of the embryo. Aniridia, or absence of the iris, is a rare defect; it is usually bilateral. The ciliary body, or cyclon, the intermediate portion of the middle tunic or uveal tract, is composed of two portions—the ciliary muscle and the choroid portion or ciliary processes. It extends from the posterior, or ciliary, margin of the iris to a point opposite tlie ora serrata of the retina. In meridional sections of the eyeball it is triangular. The outer side of the triangle is formed by the ciliary muscle, and is in contact with the sclera; the postero-internal side is directed toward the vitreous chamber of the eyeball, and contains the ciliary processes; the anterior side is directed toward the aqueous chamber, and gives attachment to the margin of the iris at about its middle. The ciliary body is well supplied with branches from the ciliary vessels and nerves. Inflammation spreads rapidly from it to the iris, choroid, retina, and cornea. It is called the dangerous area of the eye, because traumatic inflammation of the ciliary body in one eye may be followed by sympathetic ophthalmia beginning in the ciliary body of the other eye. This is supposed b}^ some to be due to the rich nerve supply of that region. The ciliary muscle foi-ms a conspicuous white band between the choroid and the iris, and behind the sclero-corneal junction. It bears on its inner surface the ciliar}'- processes. In cross section of the ciliary body or longitudinal section of the eyeball it appears as a triangular band of nuiscle fibers. The shorter anterior