SURGICAL AXATOMY. 186 The tissues supplied by the external carotid artery are chiefly nourished through the anastomoses between the opposite branches of the two external carotid arteries, and the portion of the brain previously nourished by the internal carotid artery receives its blood supply through the two vertebral arteries and the opposite internal carotid artery. Irregularities.—The right cdmmon carotid artery, when the innominate artery is absent, may arise from the arch of the aorta separately or from a trunk common to the two common carotid arteries. When it arises from a trunk com- mon to it and the left common carotid artery, it may cross in front of the trachea above the sternum. Owing to the variability in the level at wliich the innominate artery bifurcates, the right common carotid artery may arise higher or lower than the upper margin of the right sterno-clavicular joint; its origin is more frequently below that level than above it. The left comvion carotid artery varies chiefly in its origin from the arch of the aorta. Its place of origin may extend into that of the innominate artery. When the right common carotid artery arises from the arch of the aorta, the two carotid arteries may arise from a common trunk. The left common carotid artery occa- sionally arises from a left innominate artery. Either of the common carotid arteries may bifurcate higher or lower than the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The artery may bifurcate above the level of the liyoid bone, giving off" some of the branches which should arise from the external carotid artery. It may not bifurcate, the external carotid or internal carotid artery being absent. The point of bifurcation may be as low as the root of the neck. The common carotid artery may be absent, the external cai'otid and internal carotid arteries arising from the innominate artery or the arch of the aorta. The connnon carotid artery may give origin to the thyroidea ima, vertebral, inferior thyroid, or some of the branches of the external carotid artery. The pneumogastric- nerve may lie in front of the common carotid artery. The external carotid artery is ligatured after injury to this vessel or its l)ranches, to check malignant growths, in cirsoid aneurysm of its branches, before removal of the parotid gland, and in various other conditions. The artery is usually tied between the jjoints of origin of the lingual and su])crior thyroid arteries and in the superior carotid triangle, as it is more superficial here, and tlie distance from the bifurcation of the common carotid artery is sufficient to favor the formation of a clot. Its course is represented by that portion of the line of the common carotid artery which is above the level of the upj)cr border of the thyroid cartilage. In the superior carotid triangle below the posterior belly of the diga.stric muscle the external carotid artery is covered by skin, super-