THE NOSE. ' 301 turbinated bones, and to the presence of cavernous spaces of erectile tissue in that of the inferior turbinated bone. In chronic nasal catarrh these cavernous spaces are distended with blood, the nasal cavity is occluded, and the individual is unable to breathe through the nose. The mucous membrane of the anterior extremity of the inferior turbinated bone, when distended, resembles a polypoid growth. Instruments, such as specula or tubes of atomizers, introduced through the anterior nares should be directed slightly outward to avoid striking the septum, which causes pain, and to prevent injury to the mucous membrane, which often bleeds after slight traumatisms. Mucous polypi are frequently developed in the nose, and usually from the mucous membrane of the superior or middle turbinated bone or near the hiatus semilunaris. They occlude the nasal cavity, may broaden the nose, compressing the nasal ducts, and may project through the anterior or posterior nares. They should be removed, and if they continue to recur, a portion of the adjacent bone should be removed, exercising sufficient care to avoid fracturing the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone. Fibrous or sarcomatous polypi arise from the periosteum and more frequently from the roof of the nose. Bleeding from the nose (epistaxis) is one of the prodromal symptoms of typhoid fever, but it is more commonly due to other causes, such as engorged vessels, as in plethoric individuals, or ulceration into an artery, and may be a symptom of fracture of the base of the skull, purpura hemorrhagica, hemo- philia, scurvy, or ptomain poisoning, as from large abscesses. Hemorrhage from the nose is checked by the laity b}^ pressure on the upper lip, which occludes the artery of the septum ; by plugging the anterior nares ; by raising the arm and increasing the expansion of the chest, which lessens the pressure in the veins ; ard by drop- ping a cold key down the back, or applying cold water to the back of the neck, and thus stimulating the vasomotor nerves. If the source of a serious hemorrhage can not be found, the bleeding can be checked by plugging both the anterior and posterior nares, which is done by introducing a strong thread, stiffened by soaking in gum and drying, into the nose and j:)harvnx, and bringing it out through the mouth and attaching a plug of cotton to it; or a soft catheter may be threaded and carried through the nose into the pharynx. One end of the thread is brought out through the mouth with forceps, and the other through the nose in with- drawing the catheter. A plug of cotton the size of a walnut is then attached to the string, the two ends of which are tied together so that the plug can be pulled against the posterior nares, or withdrawn and reapplied if necessary. The instru- ment specially designed for plugging the posterior nares is Bellocq's cannula. Ozena is the name given to any affection of the nasal fossae giving rise to a foul discharge from the nose. A fetid purulent discharge from both nostrils may