323 THE ORBIT, Running along the outer wall of the orbit, and just above the external rectus muscle, will be seen the lacrymal nei've and artery. At the front and outer part of the orbit the lacrymal gland appears resting against the lacrymal fossa in the under surface of the horizontal plate of the frontal bone. Along the inner wall will be seen the superior oblique muscle. At its anterior portion the fibrous ling or pulley through which its tendon Avorks can be demon- strated ; and, Avell back in its course, the fourth or pathetic nerve will be seen entering its fleshy portion. The orbital fat.—The posterior half of the orbit contains a large mass of stringy, coherent fat, wdiich forms a soft pad or cushion for the support of the eye- ball, and fills the interstices between the muscles, vessels, and nerves. The sink- ing in of the eyeball,, coincident with the emaciation of disease or age, is due to partial absorption of this fat. Orbital abscesses are situated in the orbital fat and may develop therein ; they may arise from ocular inflammation, periostitis, injuries, or result from extension from adjacent cavities, as the ethmoid or sphenoid cells, antrum of Highmore, pterygo-maxillary region, or cranial cavity. If the abscess attains a large size, it displaces the eyeball forward, retards its movements, and, through pressui^e upon the ophthalmic vein and its tributaries, causes congestion of the conjunctiva and swelling of the eyelids. Foreign bodies may lodge in the orbital fat for a long time without causing much disturbance. Emphysema of tJie orbit, or air in the orbital fat, results from ru2:)ture of the orbital periosteum and fracture of the wall intervening between the orbit and one of the accessory air-chambers of the nose—viz., the frontal sinuses, ethmoid cells, sphenoid cells, and antrum of Plighmore. The orbital fascia resembles the deep fascia of other locations. It envelops and forms sheaths for the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the orbit, and sends partitions or septa into the orbital fat which separate it into lobules. Posteriorly, or at the apex of the orbit, the orbital fascia is continuous with the orbital periosteum around the origins of the muscles. It passes forward as a single layer betwefen the muscles, and where each of the muscles is located it exists as two layers which envelop the muscle. Near the apex of the orbit it is thin and lax, but as it passes forward it becomes much stronger and more adherent to the muscles. About opposite the ecjuator of the eyeball it divides into two lamina'— the anterior and the posterior. The anterior lamina of the orbital fascia passes forward to blend with the orbital periosteum at the 0)-l:)ital margin and to the deep surface of the palpebral fascia in the eyelids, thus for}ning a funnel-shaped parti-