THE PHARYNX. . 227 be avoided or divided between ligatures, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery must not be injured. The thoracic portion of the esophagus will be described with the chest. THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, the second portion of the alimentary tract, is situated behind the nasal cavities, the mouth, and the larynx ; it is subdivided into the naso-pharynx, oro-pharynx, and laryngo-pharynx, and is a conic, musculo-membranous tube. The naso-pharynx and oro-pharynx bridge the gap in the respiratory tract between the larynx and nasal cavities, and assist in giving resonance to the voice; the oro-pharynx and laryngo-pharynx connect the mouth with the esophagus, and carry the food from the former to the latter. The pharynx is about four and one- half inches in length, and extends from the base of the skull to the upper border of the sixth cervical vertebra, opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where it becomes the esophagus. The base of the cone is in contact with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid bone and the basilar process of the occipital bone, and its apex blends Avith the esophagus. The pharynx is com- pressed from before backward, the transverse diameter- being greater than the antero-posterior. Its widest point is opposite the greater cornua of the hyoid bone, where it is about two inches in width ; its narrowest point is at its junction with the esophagus, opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where it is about three-fourths of an inch wide. Although, owing to the dilatability of the pharynx, large foreign bodies may be retained in it for a long time Avithout producing much discomfort, they more frequently give rise to alarming symptoms. They usually lodge at the lower end, which is the narrowest portion of that canal. Here they lie behind the larynx, causing dyspnea and obstructing deglutition. In attempting removal of these bodies it is important to remember that the pharyngo-esophageal junction is about six inches from the teeth. Foreign bodies in the pharynx may cause suffocation by occlusion of the supe- rior aperture of the larynx, or by producing spasm of the muscles of the larynx. In either condition sudden death may occur during eating. As the mass of food can be reached if it rests upon the superior aperture of the larynx, the proper course of procedure is to remove it with the finger used as a hook. The pharynx has a muscular, a fibrous, and a mucous coat. The Muscular Coat of the Pharynx is composed of three muscles—viz., the