144 SURGICAL AXATOMY. cervical fascia (prevertebral fascia) is divided on a line with the inner border of the anterior scalene muscle ; the vertebral artery with its companion vein, which partly covers it, will be found occupying the interval between the anterior scalene and the longus colli muscle. The inferior tliyroid artery, which lies in front of the vertebral artery, must not be mistaken for it. The dissection necessary to expose the vessel must be done cautiously, otherwise there is danger of wounding the phrenic nerve and the internal jugular vein, or of opening the pleural sac. The inexperienced operator may be led to believe he has opened the pleural sac, by the crackling sound occasioned by air infiltrating the connective tissue occupying this position. The vertebral vein must be slightly (lisplac('(l before passing the aneu- rysm needle, which should l)e carried from without inward to avoid injuring the vertebral vein, the internal jugular vein being protected with the tip of the tinger. On the left side the thoracic duct sliould be avoided. Contraction of the pupil of the eye of the corresponding side, caused by tlie disturbance of the sympathetic filaments in relation witli the artery, is evidence tliat the ligature has included the vertel)ral artery. The author has found tliis a reliable sign. The carotid tubercle, which is at the upper extremity of the groove between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, is the deep guide to the artery. The thyroid axis, a short thick trunk, arises from the sul)clavian artery near the inner border of the anterior scalene muscle. It lies beneath the internal jugular vein and prevertebral fascia and Ijetween tlie i)hrenic nerve and vertebral vein, and divides into three Branches : the inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and transversalis colli arteries. The inferior thyroid artery, the largest bi'anch of the thyroid axis, passes obliquely upward and inward behind the internal jugular vein, and in front of the vertebral artery and inward behind the sheath of the common carotid artery and the sympathetic nerve to the deep surface of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, which gland it sup].)lies and within wliicli it anastomoses with the superior thyroid artery and the inferior thyroid artery of the opposite side. It turns inward just below tlie carotid tubercle (anterior tubercle of the sixth cervical transverse process), and crosses behind the sheatli of the vessels at about the level of the tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle. The middle cervical or thyroid ganglion of the sym])athetic nerve rests u})on tlie inferior thyroid artery. It gives off the following Branches : ascending cervical, laryngeal, tracheal, esophageal, and muscular. The ascendinff cervical artery arises from the inferior thyroid behind the internal jugular vein, and runs up the neck close to the tips of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra? in the groove between the anterior scalene and the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, and to the inner side of the phrenic nerve.