THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. 521 The anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle is triangular in shape on coronal section of the brain. It extends forward, downward, and outward into the frontal lobe. It curves around the anterior end of the corpus striatum, and diverges from the anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle of the other side as it passes forward. It is bounded above by the fibers of the corpus callosum {forceps minor), which curve outward and forward ; internally, by the septum lucidum, which separates it from the corresponding cornu of the opposite ventricle; in front, by the genu of the corpus callosum ; and externally, by the caudate nucleus. Its floor is formed in great part by the caudate nucleus, which projects into it, and to a slight extent by the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, +he smallest of the three cornua, commences in the body of the ventricle opposite the splenium of the corpus callo- sum, and at the same point as the middle cornu. It extends horizontally back- ward, outward, and then inward into the occipital lobe. Its roof is formed by those fibers of the splenium of the corpus callosum [ forceps major) which pass back- ward and outward and become continuous with the white matter of the occipital lobe. On its inner wall is seen the hippocampus minor, or calcar avis, produced by the calcarine fissure ; above this is a smaller prominence, the bulb of the cornu, produced by the bulging of the fibers of the forceps major into the cavity, above and internal to the hippocamj^us minor. On the floor is seen a slight elevation, produced by the fasciculus longitudinalis inferior, which passes from the occipital to the temporal lobe. At the point where the middle and posterior cornua meet a triangular, smooth surface is seen, called by Schwalbe the trigonum ventriculi. Tlie middle or descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, the longest of the three cornua, may be considered the continuation of the cavity of the ventricle into the temporal lobe ; it commences opposite the splenium of the corpus callosum, in the body of the ventricle, at the same point at which the posterior cornu begins. It extends backward and outward around the posterior extremity of the optic thala- mus, and then runs downward, forward, and inward to reach the base of the brain, terminating about an inch, or 2.5 centimeters, from the tip of the temporo-sphenoid lobe. Its roof is formed by those fibers of the body of the corpus callosum (tape- tum) which pass outward and become continuous with the white matter of the temporo-sphenoid lobe, and by the tail of the caudate nucleus, the taenia semi- circularis, and the amygdaloid tubercle. The floor is formed in great part by the eminentia collateralis. Upon the inner ivall are seen the following structures, named from without inward : the hippocampus major, and pes hippocampi, the corpus fimbriatum, the, choroid plexus, and the fascia dentata or dentate convolution.