59 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. at times be of considerable size and extend well into, if not across, the occipital triangle, supplying the lymphatic glands and connective tissue contained therein. When, on opening an abscess in this triangle, more than the usual amount of bleeding follows, the probability is that an anomalously large middle sterno- mastoid artery has been severed. Under these circumstances the incision should be enlarged to sufficiently expose both ends of the bleeding vessel and permit their ligation. The author recalls a case in which this accident occurred, and the surgeon, believing that but a small subcutaneous vessel had been divided, relied on a compress, and the patient died from hemorrhage. The autopsy re- vealed a severed large middle sterno-mastoid artery. The transversalis colli artery terminates in the lower part of this triangle, by dividing into the superficial cervical and the posterior scapular artery. The superficial cervical artery has been traced to the anterior border of the trapezius muscle, beneath which it anastomoses with the superficial branch of the princeps cervicis artery. The posterior scapular, occasionally a branch of the third part of the subclavian artery, passes beneath the levator anguli scapulse muscle, then along the vertebral border of the scapula, running between the insertions of the serratus magnus and rhomboidei muscles to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the subscapular artery. In its course it gives off branches to the adjacent muscles and anastomoses with the supra-scapular and dorsalis scapulae arteries. The subclavian or supra-clavicular triangle (trigonum omo-claviculare).— The subclavian triangle, the smaller of the two divisions of the posterior common triangle, is one of the most important triangles of the neck. It is bounded in front by the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; above, by the poste- rior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle ; and below, by the clavicle. The base of the triangle, formed by the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, is directed forward. The roof of this triangle is formed of the superficial layer of the deep fascia, covered by the platysma myoides muscle, superficial fascia, and skin. The depth of this space is increased when the shoulder is raised and diminished when it is depressed. In all operations in this triangle the shoulder should be depressed, the contents of the triangle being thus brought nearer to the surface. Its size will depend on the extent of the attachment of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles to the clavicle, and on the position of the omo-hyoid muscle. Dissection.—The roof of the triangle having been reflected in removing the superficial layer of the deep fascia, some lymphatic glands, loose areolar tissue, and fat will be seen ; a small portion of the external jugular vein is also visible ; the termination of the transversalis colli and supra-scapular veins, the jugulo- cephalic vein, when present, and some additional veins from the muscles, the