SURGICAL ANATOMY. 216 and toward the opposite side, a ridge in the nincous membrane of the floor of the mouth, produced by this nerve, is seen extending forward from the inner side of the hist mohir tooth. A cystic tumor in the floor of the mouth due to occlusion of tlie orifice of Wliarton's duct, one of the ducts of Rivini, or the duct of a mucous folHcle, is called a ranula. The sublingual bursa, according to Tillaux, is found immediately beneath the mucous membrane of the anterior j)art of the floor of the mouth, where the mucous membrane is reflected upon the posterior surface of the lower jaw. This bursa is aff'ected in acute ranula. The Tongue is a freel}'' movable, muscular organ, covered with nmcous mem- brane. It contains the organs of the special sense of taste, and is an important accessory in the functions of mastication, deglutition, and speech. The mucous membrane covers all the free surface of the tongue—i. e., the dorsum, sides, and less than the anterior one-third of the under surface of the organ. The tongue has a tij), a base, a dorsum, and two sides. The tip or apex of the tongue is its most movable portion, and is covered on both its upper and lower surface by mucous membrane. Its range of motion is influenced by the length of the frsenum linguae. A short frcnum causes tongue-tie, and a long one allows swallowing of the tongue. The base or root of the tongue is its least movable portion. It is attached to the hyoid bone by muscular tissue and by a fibrous membrane (Injjw-glossal wem- bram^; to the anterior portion of the lower jaw, at the side of the symphysis, by the genio-hyo-glossus muscle ; and to the epiglottis, by the three glosso-epiglot- tidean folds of mucous membrane. The median glosso-epiglottidean fold is sharj^ly outlined, and has been called the frsenum epiglottidis. Tlie lateral glosso-epiglottidean folds are rounded and indistinct. Between the median and the lateral folds are the glosso- epiglottidean pouches or valleculae, in which small foreign bodies may lodge and cause much discomfoi't. The dorsum of the tongue is convex and grooved in the median line, forming a raphe fi-om which a septum dij^s down between the muscles of the two sides. The raphe terminates behind at tlie foramen caecum, which is the orifice of the obliterated thyro-glossal duct. In the fetus the thyro-glossal duct extends from the middle lobe of the thyroid gland to the tongue. It can seldom be traced in the adult. The posterior one-third of the dorsum of the tongue dips downward in front of tlie pharynx almost to the level of the hyoid bone, and overhangs the epiglottis. It presents no })ai)illa;, but has a somewhat uneven surface, produced