FEMALE PERINEUM. 661 may be partly closed by a fold of mucous membrane, the Hymen, and when this has been ruptured its remnants, the Carunculae Myrtiformes—small projections of mucous membrane—are found around the vaginal orifice. The hymen is variable in form. It may be semilunar, annular, cribriform, or fimbriated. In imperforate hymen the menstrual fluid is retained in the uterus and vagina. The Ducts of the Vulvo-vaginal Glands (Bartholin's) are situated at the side of the vaginal orifice toward its posterior portion, between the hymen and the labia minora. The Fourchet is a small, transverse, crescentic fold of skin connecting the labia majora posteriorly, and is situated just internal to the posterior commissure of the vulva. It is usually ruptured in the first labor. The Fossa Kavicularis is the depression between the fourchet and the vaginal orifice. The Perineal Body is the cuneiform mass of fibro-elastic and muscular tissue, located between the lower part of the rectum and ^;agina. The edge of the wedge is directed upward and the base, which measures about one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, is directed toward the skin. It is composed of the central tendon of the perineum or central part of the base of the triangular ligament, and fibers of the sphincter vaginae, transverse perineal, external sphincter ani, levator ani, and deep transverse perineal muscles. Rectal Examination.—The index-finger introduced into the rectum will recognize the resistance caused by the external and internal sphincter ani muscles; beyond these can be felt the external os uteri, the cervix, body, and fundus of the uterus, and, lastly, the appendages of the uterus—namely, the round ligaments. Fallopian tubes, and ovaries. This examination should always be made when dealing with obscure affections in the pelvis of the female. The vagina is the avenue through which digital exploration of the female pelvis is most commonly made, yet to make the examination more complete the possibilities of the rectal avenue should not be forgotten. This holds true, also, with certain diseases in the iliac and hypogastric regions of the abdomen. Vaginal Examination.—When the index-finger is introduced into the vagina, the. urethra is felt as a cord extending above the anterior vaginal wall from the vestibule to the neck of the bladder; the base of the bladder and anterior surface of the cervix uteri are palpated at the anterior fornix of the vagina ; then the cervix and the external os uteri are felt. The body of the uterus, the ovaries, and the Fallopian tubes can be palpated at the side of the cervix. The ovaries are more readily palpated than the Fallopian tubes. Behind the posterior wall of the vagina the rectum can be easily recognized, and the terminal part of the sigmoid flexure can be made out through the posterior fornix