26 SURGICAL ANATOMY. The lower three arches are concerned in the formation of the tissues of tlie neck. ,The visceral clefts open internally into the pharynx ; no communication of the pharynx with the exterior ever occurs, for a delicate membrane divides the cleft into an inner (pharyngeal pouch) and an outer portion (branchial furrow). The lower three clefts normally disappear, certain traces found in the pharynx and larynx alone remaining. The third and fourth arches are small, are gradually overlapped by the second arch, and lie in a depression known as the sinus cervicalis. It is through imperfect closure of this sinus that most of the congenital cervical fistulse occur. These are narrow, epithelium lined tracts, opening externally near the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. When complete, they open internally into the pharynx. If the internal portion of a branchial cleft fail to become obliter- ated, while the outer portion is closed as normally, a pharyngeal or esophageal diverticulum may form. Furthermore, if the cleft become closed externally and internally and an intermediate, unobliterated portion persist, the epithelium lining this cavity may proliferate and undergo various changes, and thus a so-called branchial cyst result. These branchial cysts occur in the submaxillary and supra- clavicular regions and at the borders of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection.—The neck should be extended and made prominent by placing a block beneath the shoulders. An incision should be carried from the symphysis of the lower jaw down the middle line of the neck, to the middle of the top of the sternum ; a second and a third incision should be made, the former along the clavicle to the acromion process, the latter along the lower border of the lower jaw to the angle of the jaw, thence to the lobe of the ear, and behind the ear to the transverse incision made in dissecting the scalp. The face should then be turned away from the side on which the dissection is being made, and retained in position with hooks, the skin being raised and reflected from before backward to beyond the anterior border of the trapezius muscle. The skin covering the side of the neck is thin, quite elastic, and can readily be raised into folds, which always contain the platysma myoides muscle ; these conditions favor the performance of plastic operations. In these respects it differs from the skin over the nape of the neck, which is very dense and adherent and more freely supplied with nerves, but not nearly so well supplied with blood vessels. Carbimcle is usually seen at the lower part of the back of the neck near the median line. The nape of the neck was formerly a common site for the intro- duction of setons and the application of issues. The superficial fascia now exposed is a very thin lamina of areolar and adi- pose tissue, divisible, as elsewhere, into two layers, the deep one being a very deli-