THE NOSE. 311 which there is a thin diploic layer. The weakest and thinnest portion of this external wall is just above the inner angle of the orbit, and when a collection of pus in the frontal sinus bursts externally, it is usually at this point that the open- ing occurs. Such a fistulous opening may be mistaken by the careless observer for a fistula lachrymalis. The frontal sinuses are extremely variable in size and form. A thin osseous partition usually separates one sinus from the other; this septum may, however, be incomplete. In many cases these sinuses extend backward for a considerable distance over the roof of the orbit. Additional septa may divide the cavity into subcompartments, and, furthermore, one or two of the ethmoid cells may bulge into the sinus. In women they are comparatively small. In some individuals they are quite small, or even absent, and this is said to be the common condition in skulls which have a midfrontal suture. They open into the middle meatuses of the nasal fossae by means of the infundibula. They are lined by mucous membrane, which is an extension of that of the nose and is supplied by filaments of the nasal nerve. Congestion of the mucous membrane of the frontal sinuses, which is likely to be associated with acute coryza, or " cold in the head," produces the dull ache over the glabella and superciliary eminences in that affection. When drainage from the sinuses is insufficient, mucus becomes inspissated within them. Empyema, or a purulent collection in the frontal sinus, is often associated with occlusion of the infundibulum, and, because of the unyielding character of the walls of the sinus, causes much pain. If the infundibulum is patulous, the pus appears in the middle meatus of the nose. For the proper treatment of this affection it is necessary to trephine the anterior wall of the sinus, reestablish the communication with the nose, and institute drainage by means of a tube passed into the nasal fossa. The incision is made just below the supra-orbital margin, and extends from the root of the nose outward for about an inch. A small trephine or a drill is applied just above the inner angle of the orbit, where the bone is thin. The external table of the skull may be f ractured and depressed at the position of the frontal sinuses without injuring the inner table or affecting the cranial contents, and the inspissated mucus escaping from the sinus may be mistaken for brain matter. These fractures are often accompanied by emphysema, in which case the air is derived from the nose by way of the infundibulum. Living foreign bodies, such as centipedes, maggots, and insects, may enter the frontal sinuses by passing up the infundibulum. A polypus is sometimes found in one of the frontal sinuses. It may originate in the sinus or in the nose, and enter the sinus by way of the infundibulum. If it