THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. 531 the lateral-ventricle. Along its antero-superior or concave margin is the corpus fimhriatum. Its anterior extremity, the pes Itip'pocampi, is enlarged, and presents two or more grooves, so that it somewhat resembles the paw of an animal. Dissection.—Carefully separate the inner border of the corpus fimhriatum from the choroid plexus of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, thus breaking through the epithelial lining of the ventricle ; displace the choroid plexus inward, and slightly depress the corpus fimhriatum find hippocampus major. Tliis procedure exposes the fascia dentata, and separates the margins of the hippocampal fissure. The Fascia Dentata, or Dentate Convolution, a serrated band of gray matter, is the margin of the hippocampal convoluti(jn in relation with the hippocampal fissure. The serrations or indentations of the fascia dentata are produced by the vessels of the pia mater, which projects through the hiijpocampal fissure into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The fascia dentata extends from near the splenium of the corpus callosum to the anterior extremity of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. As the epithelial lining of the ventricle must be divided in order to expose the fascia dentata, that convolution is external to the wall of the ventricular cavity. The Hippocampus Minor, Calcar Avis, or Ergot, is a small, convex, white eminence which occupies the floor and inner wall of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is produced by the calcarine fissure, and is at times but faintly marked. The Eminentia CoUateralis, or Pes Accessorius, may be recognized at its commencement as a smooth white eminence fitting into the angle of divergence of the hippocampus major and hippocampus minor, at the junction of tne middle and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle. It extends forward as the floor of the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle almost to the extremitj^ of this cornu. It is produced by the collateral fissure. Dissection.—Next divide the fornix transversely at about its middle, and reflect the one half forward and the other backward, thus exposing the greater part of that process of pia mater—the velum interpositum—wliich lies above the epithelial roof of the third ventricle. To expose thoroughly the velum inter- positum, especially that part of it which occupies the central portion of the trans- verse fissure, make a longitudinal incision thi'ough the posterior part of the fornix and corpus callosum ; then reflect these flaps laterally. The Velum Interpositum, or Tela Choroidea Superior, is that process of the pia mater Avliich reaches the inferior of the brain by way of the horizontal portion of the transverse fissure, passing between the splenium of the corpus callosum and the corpora quadrigemina. It is a double layer of pia mater, and is triangular in