THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN 467 the sixth cervical nerve. It gains entrance to the cranial cavity by way of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and passes out through the middle com- partment of the jugular or posterior lacerated foramen. In the latter situation the accessory portion leaves it to join the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. The spinal accessory is a sensori-motor nerve, and supplies the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. The Twelfth Cranial or Hypoglossal Nerve arises superficially from the side of the medulla oblongata by several filaments which emerge through the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body; its deep origin is from the posterior portion of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The filaments of this nerve are collected into two bundles which perforate the dura mater separately before passing through the anterior condyloid foramen, in which they unite to form the trunk of the nerve. The hypoglossal is a motor nerve. It supplies the extrinsic muscles of the tongue—viz., the genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, and the stylo^ glossus. Through fibers derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves it supplies a meningeal branch to the dura mater, and through fibers derived from the second and third cervical nerves it supplies motor branches to the genio-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid, and thyro-hyoid muscles. THE CEREBRUM. The brain is now laid on its base and the upper surface examined. This surface is formed entirely by the cerebrum, and is seen to consist of two halves, called hemispheres, which are separated from each other in the median line by the longitudinal fissure. This is one of the two largest fissures of the brain, the other being the horizontal fissure. The Longitudinal Fissure.—By gently separating the hemispheres the longi- tudinal fissure will be seen to reach the base of the brain both in front and behind, while the intervening portion is rendered more shallow by a transverse band of white matter, the corpus callosum, which may therefore be said to form its floor. Running through the bottom of the fissure from before backward, and over the superior surface of the corpus callosum, are the anterior cerebral arteries; this fissure also lodges the falx cerebri and its contained sinuses, the superior and the inferior longitudinal. The Horizontal Fissure.—The posterior ends of the hemispheres of the cere- brum are separated from the cerebellum by the horizontal fissure, the deep central or purely intra-cerebral portion of which is known as the transverse fissure or the fissure of Bichat. The horizontal fissure accommodates the tentorium cerebelli and its contained sinuses,—the straight, the lateral, and the superior petrosal,—while