THE LARYNX. 281 appear as white bands more nearly approximated than the false cords. In acute laryngitis the true vocal cords are of a pinkish color, and the remainder of the larynx is red and swollen. Tliis swelling, or edema, of the glottis is produced by a serous infiltration into the submucous areolar tissue ; and if present to a marked degree, is best treated by scarification ; it may, however, necessitate intubation, laryngotomy, or tracheotomy. The Hyoid Bone is an important adjunct to the larynx. It prevents collapse of the pharynx over the superior aperture of the larynx, and from it the larynx is suspended by the thyro-liyoid membrane and thyro-hyoid ligaments. The greater cornua of this bone are important guides. The tip of the greater cornu is opposite the origin of the lingual artery, just above the level of that of the superior thyroid artery, and just below tlie level of the origin of the facial artery. In the operation for ligation of the lingual artery in the lingual triangle the incision is made just above and })arallel with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. This bone is sometimes fractured by external violence, as in choking or throttling, and has been broken by muscular action. The body of the bone is rarely frac- tured, one of the greater cornua usually being fractured. The Movements of the Larynx en masse are in but two directions—upward and downward. The most marked movements are performed during deglutition, prior to which the larynx, as well as the pharynx, is drawn upward. By this means closure of the superior aperture of the larynx is facilitated, and elevation of the pharynx aids the constrictor muscles of the pharynx to grasp the morsel of food. The larynx is elevated by the following muscles: The digastric, the stylo- hyoid, the mylo-hyoid, the genio-hyoid, the lower portion of the genio-hyo-glossus, the stylo-pharyngeus, and the palato-pharyngeus. It is depressed by the sterno- hyoid, the sterno-thyroid, and the omo-hyoid muscles. Laryngotomy is performed through the crico-thyroid membrane. The shoulders are elevated by a })illow, the head and neck are extended, a firm support is placed under the neck, and the face is made to look directly forward so that the relations of the structures in the median line of the neck may not be distorted. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages and the crico-thyroid space are outlined, the larynx is gently steadied with the thumb and fingers of one hand, and an inci- sion one and one-half inches long is made in the median line over the lower part of the thyroid cartilage, the crico-thyroid membrane, and the cricoid cartilage. The skin, the superficial fascia, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided ; the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are separated from the corresponding muscles of the opposite side ; the pretracheal fascia is divided ; and the central por- tion of the crico-thyroid membrane is divided transversely along the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. By dividing the lowest portion of the membrane the