DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 47 envelop the subclavian vessels, which it accompanies into the axilla, where, with a process from the costo-coracoid membrane, it forms the sheath of the axillary vessels. As it passes behind the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein it reinforces the sheath of these vessels. The anterior process ('pretracheal fascia) arises from the superficial layer near the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, passes beneath the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and in front of the trachea, enveloping the thyroid gland. It is attached to the first rib, to which it binds the tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle. This, with the posterior process just described, and the layer of deep fascia beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, complete the formation of the sheath of the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein. The portion of the deep cervical fascia which envelops the trachea and great vessels extends downward along the great vessels into the chest, where it is continuous with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. The superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, with its two deep processes, divides the neck into three compartments : an anterior, a middle, and a posterior. The anterior compartment, between the superficial layer and the pretracheal fascia, contains the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. The middle or visceral compartment, between the pretracheal and pre- vertebral fasciae, contains the thyroid gland, trachea, and esophagus. The posterior or muscular compartment, between the prevertebral fascia and the superficial layer, contains the prevertebral muscles, scaleni, levator anguli scapulae, and the muscles of the back of the neck, excepting the trapezius. Dr. Allan Burns first called the attention of the profession to the barrier at the upper opening of the chest, formed by the attachment of the deep cervical fascia to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, supporting the soft pans and preventing them from yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspira- tion. The internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate veins are so closely attached to the adjacent bones and muscles by the deep cervical fascia that they gape Avhen divided, thus permitting air to enter. In operations on the neck, when these veins are exposed and division is necessary, it is best to ligate them before severing them. Abscess.—In order to become familiar with the course pus pursues in the neck, a correct knowledge of the attachments of the deep cervical fascia is neces- sary. A collection of pus situated beneath the superficial layer of the deep fascia at the side of the neck may burrow into the axilla, and, vice versa, one in the axilla may work its way into the neck ; if situated beneath the layer of deep fascia (pos- terior process or prevertebral fascia) covering the scaleni muscles, and attached to the first rib as far forward as the anterior border of the anterior scalene muscle, it may burrow into the chest cavity, reaching the posterior mediastinum, or follow