209 THE MOUTH. border, turns downward along that margin for a short distance, and then runs transversely forward. The descending superficial branch of the cervical plexus, Avhich divides into the supra-sternal, supra-clavicular, and supra-acromial nerves, is found running along the posterior border of the sterno-niastoid muscle just below the middle of that margin, and usually passes between the sterno-mastoid muscle and the external jugular vein. The brachial plexus may be stretched in the neck external to the scalenus anticus muscle. It emerges from between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles, and converges toward the apex of the axilla. The patient is placed on the back, with the shoulders elevated, the neck extended, and the face turned to the opposite side. The incision begins about one-half of an inch above the middle of the clavicle. It is carried directly upward for about three inches, and parallel with the posterior margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle. The skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides muscle are divided. The external jugular vein, which lies to the inner side of the incision, should be located, and it may be necessary to divide the posterior external jugular or transverse cervical and supra-scapular veins between ligatures. The superficial layer of the deep fascia is next divided. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle is drawn upward, the transversalis colli artery and the cords of the plexus and the position of the outer border of the scalenus anticus muscle are located Avith the finger. The posterior process of the deep fascia (pre- vertebral fascia) is divided a short distance external to the scalenus anticus muscle, avoiding the nerve to the subclavius .muscle, which runs along the outer border of the scalenus anticus muscle, and the transversalir colli arterj^, which runs across the upper part of the plexus. The prevertebral fascia is reflected outward. The upper and middle cervical trunks of the plexus are found above the subclavian artery, whereas the lower trunk is overlapped by the upper margin of that oxievy. THE MOUTR. The student should noAV examine the mouth, the pharynx, the larynx, and the nose. These are attached to the anterior portion of the skull which has been divided previous to the dissection of the prevertebral muscles. The mouth is situated at the commencement of the alimentary canal. It contains the organs of "mastication, those of the sense of laste, some of the organs of speech, and it acts as a resonating cavity. The buccal cavity (cavity of the 11-14