615 MALE PERINEUM. above the lower margin of the tuberosity of the ischium. It ascends along the ramus of the ischium, pierces the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, runs along the inner margin of the ramus of the pubis, between the fibers of the com- pressor urethrae muscle at its origin, and at the anterior part of the deep intra- aponeurotic space of the perineum gives off the artery of the corpus cavernosum, and continues through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament as the dorsal artery of the penis. The portion of the vessel exposed in this dissection is that included between the two layers of the triangular ligament, from which arises the artery of the bulb, already described. - The artery of the corpus cavernosum arises as one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, pierces the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, enters the crus penis, and runs forward in the corpus cavernosum along the side of the pectiniform septum. The dorsal artery of the penis arises as one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic artery, pierces the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, runs upward between the crus penis, and the body of the pubis, passes between the two layers of the suspensory ligament of the penis and runs in the dartos along the dorsum of the penis, between the dorsal vein and nerve, to the glans, around the base of which, with the dorsal artery of the opposite side, it forms a complete arterial circle. It supplies the integument of the penis. The internal pudic vein accompanies the internal pudic artery, and receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, Avith the exception of the dorsal vein of the penis, which gives but a small branch to the internal pudic vein. The dorsal vein of the penis, a rather large vessel, returns the blood from the skin, glans, prepuce, corpus spongiosum, and corpora cavernosa of the penis. It consists at first of two branches, which run along the dorsum of the penis and unite near the root into a single trunk. It runs between the two layers of the sus- pensory ligament of the penis, gives off a branch to the internal pudic vein, passes between the subpubic and triangular ligaments, and empties into the prostatic plexus of veins. The pudic nerve, a branch of the lower part of the sacral plexus, accompanies the internal pudic artery from the pelvis over the spine of the ischium into the ischio-rectal fossa and into Alcock's canal. After giving off the inferior hemor- rhoidal nerve at the posterior part of the external wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, it divides into two terminal branches—the perineal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the penis. The dorsal nerve of the penis, the continuation of the pudic nerve, accom- panies the internal pudic artery in Alcock's canal, through the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, and between the anterior and posterior layers of the