299 THE NOSE. maxillte and the horizontal plates of the palate bones. It is somewhat concave from side to side, and slopes slightly downward and backward. The outer wall of the nasal fossa is formed by the nasal process and internal surface of the superior maxilla, the inferior turbinated bone, the lacrymal bone, the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, the vertical plate of the palate bone, and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. The outer wall is made irregular by projection of the superior, middle, and inferior turbinated bones into the nasal cavity. The superior turbinated bone is situated on the upper part of the outer wall in the posterior one-third of the cavity, its anterior and highest portion being about opposite the tendo oculi. The middle turbinated bone extends along the posterior two-thirds and the inferior turbinated bone along nearly the whole length of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The recesses beneath the turbinated bones are called meatuses. Of these there are three—viz., the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses, each situated beneath the corresponding turbinated bone. The superior meatus is closed in front and opens downward and backward. It contains the orifices of the sphenoid cells or sinuses and of the posterior ethmoid cells. The orifice of the sphenoid cells is really in the roof of the nasal ft)ssa at the level of the superior turbinated bone, and when that bone is divided into two plates, the orifice is opposite the space between them, known as the fourth meatus or spheno-ethmoid recess of Meyer. The middle meatus is open in front, behind, and below. In front it opens into a broad portion of the nasal cavity, called the atrium of the middle meatus. The atrium opens widely anteriorly into the vestibule, allowing most of the inhaled air to pass through the middle meatus. On the lateral or external wall of the middle meatus is a groove known as the hiatus semilunaris, which begins at the lower extremit}^ of the infundibulum and curves from above backward and downward. The orifices leading to the antrum of Highmore and to the anterior ethmoid air cells are in this groove. The bulla ethmoidalis is the rounded upper boundary of the hiatus semilu- naris. The orifice of the antrum of Highmore is about an inch above the floor of the nose. The inferior meatus opens chiefly downward and backward, so that more exhaled than inhaled air passes through it. It presents the inferior orifice of the lacrymo-nasal (nasal or lacrymal) duct, which carries the tears from the lacrymal sac to the nose. The opening of the nasal duct is at the under surface of the attached margin of the inferior turbinated bone, about an inch behind the ante- rior nares, and three-fourths of an inch above the floor of the nose. Instruments to be introduced into the inferior meatus must be directed toward the floor of tlie nose, or the anterior end of the inferior turbinated bone will guide them into the middle meatus, Avhich is more widely open. Foreign bodies are most frequently