548 SURGICAL ANATOMY. optic thalamus and the lenticular nucleus. The gam, the point where the capsule presents the greatest angularity, is. opposite the interval between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamvis. Through the internal capsule the nerve fibers pass in their course from the gray matter of the cortex of the cerebrum and caudate and lenticular nuclei to the crus cerebi'i, which transmits these fibers from the cerebrum to the pons, medulla oblongata, and s[)inal cord. In addition to these fibers the internal cap- sule contains fibers from the cerebral cortex to the optic thalamus. The anterior third of the internal capsule contains the fibers from the cortex of the prefrontal lobe, or silent region, the middle third, the fibers from the motor or Rolkndic area of the cortex of the cerebrum, and the posterior third, the sensory fibers from the occipital and temporal lobes. Destruction of the anterior two-thirds of the posterior segment of the internal capsule, which occurs in many cases of apoplexy, results in motor paralysis of the opposite side of the body. This paralysis is diffuse, and not confined to a group of muscles, as in lesions of the cerebral cortex, while destruction of the poste- rior part of the posterior limb of the internal capsule results in loss of sensation of the opposite side of the body. A small hemorrhage in the capsule will cause paralysis of that part of the opposite side of the body su])plied by the fibers compressed by the clot of blood. The Lenticular Nucleus, or extra ventricular portion of the corpus striatum; is larger than the caudate nucleus, is oval in form, and lies behind and to the outer side of the caudate nucleus. It is separated from the caudate nu.cleus by the anterior limb and genu of the internal capsule, and from the optic thalamus by the posterior limb of the internal capsule. The external capsule is a band of white matter which lies to the outer side of the lenticular nucleus, and joins the internal qapsule below the lenticular nucleus. The claustrum is a thin layer of gray matter, lying to the outer side of the external ca])su]e. The Island of Reil, previously descrilied, is external to the claustrum, and separated from it ])y a layer of white matter. White Matter of Cerebrum.—In the dissection of the cerebrum, which will be completed wlicn tlie ci'ura (•erel)ri have been traced from the upper border of the pons to each hemisphere, it should be noted that the white matter of the cere- brum is composed of three systems or sets of mcduUated nerve fibers, the ascending or peduncular, the transverse commissural, and the longitudinal com- missural. The ascendivr/ or pcdmiciilar fibers are those fibers of the crura cerebri which, in diverging to reach the nerve cells of the cerebral cortex, form the corona