526 SURGICAL ANATOMY. corpus striatum, which lies in the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. The Taenia Semicircularis, or Stria Terminalis, is a very narrow longitudinal band of white fibers, which lies in the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus, and conceals from view the vein of the corpus striatum. It extends from the anterior crus of the fornix, with which it is continuous in front, back- ward through the floor of the body of the ventricle, and into and along the roof of the middle cornu as far as the amygdaloid tubercle, where it ends. Where the surface of the anterior portion of tlie tajnia semicircularis is more transparent and less dense than elsewhere was called by Tarinus tlie " horny band." The Optic Thalami (posterior cerebral ganglia), the })Ostcrior pair of basal ganglia, can not be seen to advantage at this stage of the dissection without dis- arranging the parts overlying them and until the fornix and the velum interposi- tum have been removed ; their description, therefore, will be deferred. It is suffi- cient to say here that the optic thalamus is an oblong mass of white and gray matter lying to the inner side of the caudate nucleus and the taenia semicircularis, part of the upper surface of which is hidden by the choroid plexus, the cor|)US fimbriatum, and the lateral portion of the body of the fornix. Tlie Choroid Plexus is a red, couvoluted, vascular fringe, formed in the free margin of the velum interpositum, extending from the foramen of Monro back- ward over the optic thalamus into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, where it lies on the hippocampus major and extends to the end of this cornu of the ventricle. It is covered throughout by tlie ventricular c})ithelium, or epen- dyma, which passes from the corpus fimbriatum to the tajuia semicircularis and optic thalamus; the ependyma thus separates the plexus from the cavity of the ventricle. Behind and between the foramina of Monro the choroid plexus of one lateral ventricle becomes continuous witli that of the other, and from the point of junction the choroid plexuses of the ventricle extend backward. The Corpus Fimbriatum, Taenia Hippocampi, or Fimbria, a narrow band of white matter, is the edge of the posterior crus of the fornix, which rests upon the posterior end of the optic thalamus, the choroid plexus intervening, and is con- tinued into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Here it rests between the concave margin of tlie hippocampus major and the pia mater, which passes through the liippocampal fissure. It extends as far as the uncus of the liipi)o- campal gyrus. The Hippocampus Major, or Cornu Ammonis, is the prominent convex, white eminence which forms i)art of the ffoor and inner wall of the descending co'rnu of the lateral ventricle, and extends throughout the entire length of this cornu. It is produced by extension of the liippocampal fissure into the descending cornu of