136 SURGICAL ANATOMY. mon carotid artery exposed ; this artery is then followed downward to the innomin- ate, thus reaching the first part of the subclavian artery. To expose the first portion of the left su])clavian artery a flap similar to that described in exposing the same portion of the right should be made. The sterno-mastoid, the sterno- hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid muscle are divided, and the apex of the left lung, with the structures running parallel to and in front of the artery (see descrii)tion of the relations of the first portion of the left subclavian artery), should be drawn forward, the vertebral and internal jugular veins avoided, and the aneurysm needle passed from below ui)ward. In carrying the needle behind the artery, unless great care be exercised, the thoracic duct and })k'ura may be wounded. Branches of the Subclavian Artery.—These consist of the vertebral, the thyroid axis, the internal mammary, and the superior intercostal artery. Tlie first three branches arise from the first portion of the artery; the fourth branch arises from the second portion. In the majority of cases the third portion gives off no branches, but the po.sterior scapular artery frequently arises from it. The vertebral artery, the first and largest branch, arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the subclavian artery. It ascends in the interval between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, entering the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, just below the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It continues upward through the foramina in the transverse processes of the remaining cervical vertebroB to the skull. Having passed through the foramen in the transverse process of the axis, it makes an S-shaped curve u])ward and outward, which prevents its being stretched when the head is rotated. It then passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, curving l)ackward behind the articular process in a deep groove on the upper surface of the po.sterior arch of the atlas. Here it lies in the suboccipital triangle, and ))iei'ces the posterior oceipito-atloid ligament and dura mater of the spinal cord to traverse the foramen magnum and l)ecome intra-cranial. It unites with the vertel)ral artery of the op])osite side near the lower border of the ])(ms Varolii to form the basilar artery. The first or cervical portion of the verte- bral artery lies behind the internal jugular vein, the inferior thyroid artery, and the vertebral vein, while near the transverse process of the sixth cervical verte- bra it lies Ixitween the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles ; the thoracic duct lies in front of the left vertebral artery. The .second or vcrtchraf jiorfioii lies within the canal formed by the foramina of the transverse processes of the u])per six cervical vertebrje, and is accompanied by the vertebral veins and tlie vertebral plexus of nerves derived from the inferior cervical .sympathetic ganglion ; it lies between the vertebral vein in front, and the cervical nerves, which ])ass out of the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, behind. It is in contact with the