261 THE LARYNX. Action.—The arytenoideus muscle draws the arytenoid cartilages together and approximates the vocal cords. The Crico-arytenoideus Lateralis Muscle arises from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, in front of the crico-arytenoid articulation. It is inserted into the anterior and inferior aspects of the external angle of the arytenoid cartilage. It is covered hy the thyroid cartilage and the crico-thyroid muscle, and rests upon the lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane. Its upper border, near its termination, blends with the thyro-arytenoid muscle. Nerve Supply.—From the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Action.—It pulls the arytenoid cartilage forward, relaxing the vocal cords, and rotates that cartilage inward, approximating the cords and closing the rima glottidis. The Thyro-arytenoideus Muscle is a quadrilateral band of muscular fibers which is divided into a superior and an inferior portion. The superior portion is broad and thin, and is situated above the level of the vocal cords, external to the ventricle of the larynx and the laryngeal pouch. It arises from the lower two- thirds of the inner surface of the ala, near the angle of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the anterior surface and external angle of the arytenoid cartilage. The inferior portion is closely attached to the true vocal cord. It arises from the ala, near the angle of the thyroid cartilage, external to the attachment of the true vocal cord, and is inserted into the anterior angle (vocal process) and the adjacent portion of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. Some of its deeper fibers (ary-vocalis of Ludwig) are attached to the vocal cord at several points. Nerve Supply.—From the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Action.—The thyro-arytenoid muscles relax the true vocal cord.,, by drawing the arytenoid cartilages forward, and approximate them by drawing the vocal processes downward and inward. The ary-vocalis can make a portion of the true cord tense while the remainder is relaxed. The Thyro-epiglottideus Muscle is composed of a few of the uppermost fibers of the thyro-arytenoideus muscle, which turn upward, external to the laryngeal pouch, to be attached to the side of the epiglottis. Nerve Supply.—From the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Action.—It depresses the epiglottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus Muscle is situated in the aryteno-ei:)igiottidean fold. It arises from the apex and anterior border of the arytenoid cartilage, above the false vocal cord. Its upper fibers are inserted into the mucous membrane at the margin of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and its lower fibers are inserted into the side of the epiglottis. It is joined by some of the fibers of the oblique portion of the arytenoideus muscle, which pass around the apex of the arytenoid cartilage.