SURGICAL ANATOMY. 232 The Mucous Coat, or mucous meinl)rane, liuing the pharynx is continuous with that of tlie Eustachian tubes, nasal cavities, mouth, hirynx, and esophagus. It contains racemose mucous ghmds and scattered lymphoid follicles. Because of its -^scularity, inflammation of this membrane, which is known as pharyngitis or sore throat, frc(juent]y occurs. Thruugli the continuity of the mucous mem- brane of the nose and larynx the catarrhal process may extend to the mucous mem])rane of those cavities. Dissection.—Divide the posterior wall of the pharynx in the median line, and detach it from the base of the skull as far as the lateral wall. Then turn the two flaps outward, to study the interior of the pharynx. Beneath the petrous portion of the temporal bone the cavity of the ])harynx extends outward, forming a pouch—the pharyngeal recess. The Pharyngeal Tonsil of Luschka is a collection of lymphoid tissue in the posterior wall of the pharynx, near its junction with the roof. The Pharyngeal Bursa is a small diverticulum in the posterior wall of the pharynx, below the occii)ital bone ; it is most conspicuous in the fetus and in infants. Hypertrophy of the Pharyngeal Tonsil is the source of adenoid growths in the naso-pharynx. Obstruction of the posterior nares, loss of nasal resonance in the voice, and mouth breathing result. Extension of the hypertrophic })rocess into the Eustachian tubes causes obstruction of those tubes, tinnitus aurium, or peculiar sounds in the ears, and deafness. Post-pharyngeal Abscess, usually resulting from caries of the upper cervical vertebrse or su^jpuration of the post-pharjaigeal lymphatic gland, may bulge into the ])harynx and cause difiiculty in deglutition or respiration. Post-pharyngeal abscesses, and those arising in tlie pterygo-maxillary region and temporal fossa, may rupture into tlie phai-ynx. There are seven Openings into the pharynx : The two posterior nares, two Eustachian tubes, mouth, larynx, and eso})hagus. The two posterior nares (choanae) are at the highest point of the anterior wall of the ])harynx. They are separated from each other by the posterior margin of the se])tum of the nose. Tln-ough them can be seen the middle and inferior tur- binated bones. When a mirror is placed immediately behind the soft palate, the superior turbinated bones can also be seen. The trumpet-shaped orifices of the Eustachian tubes are in the lateral walls of the pharynx, at about the level of the infei'ior turbinated bones. It should be noticed that a Eustachian catheter carried through the inferior meatus to the posterior Avail of the pharynx, rotated outward, and drawn forward along the lateral wall of the pharynx until it passes over the elevation at the posterior mar-