SURGICAL ANATOMY. 468 the deep portion, or the transverse fissure, transmits the pia mater into the interior of the cerebrum, where that membrane forms the velum interpositum. . Convolutions and Fissures.—Tlie surfaces of the hemispheres of the cerebrum are composed of convohitions or gyri—elevations of gray matter which are sepa- rated by fissures or sulci. The greater the development of the hemisphere, the more numerous are the fissures and convolutions, as the increased depth and number of the fissures afford additional area to be covered with gray matter. In studying the fissures and convolutions from the fresh brain for the first time, that of a new-born child answers best, as the arrangement of these structures is some- what simpler and agrees better with the description of the brain given in text-books. Dissection.—Before studying the com2:)onent parts of the brain by making sections, it is better carefully to study the surface anatomy of the hemispheres of the cerebrum. This entails separating the cerebrum from the remaining divisions of the brain and carrying an incision from the bottom of the longitudinal fissure through the median line of the corpus callosum and the structures in the median line of the cerebrum under the corpus callosum ; this renders it possible to ex- amine the three surfaces of each hemisphere of the cerebrum to the best advantage. To separate the cerebrum from the remainder of the brain, it is necessary to divide the crura cerebri and superior peduncles of the cerebellum, the latter being exposed by lifting up the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. In order to do this, and also to obtain the best idea of the topographic relations of the different parts of the l)rain, the dissector should have at least two good brains at his disposal. Variations.—The two hemispheres of the cerebrum are not always the same in size, the left being usually the larger. This is supposed to be due to the fact that the blood supply of this side of the brain is more direct, as the left common carotid, and also the left subclavian arter}', which gives origin to the vertebral, arise directly from the arch of the aorta. Surfaces.—Eacli hemisphere of the cerebrum presents three surfaces; an outer,—convex or lateral,—an inner or median, and an inferior or basilar. The basilar surface rests in the anterior and middle cranial fosste and upon the tento- rium cerebelli. Arrangement of the Convolutions.—As has been noted, the surfaces of the hemispheres of the cerebrum are composed of gray matter arranged in folds, elevations, convolutions, or gyri ; these, in turn, are separated by furrows, fissures, valleys, or sulci varying in length, depth, and importance. As Ecker well states, the chief or primary convolutions are like great mountain chains whose direction lends to a region its characteristic features. The secondary folds originate by the splitting of a primary convolution into smaller ones by the forma- tion of longitudinal furrows, as secondary mountain ridges arise from the forma-