640 SURGICAL ANATOMY. the developed penis. Cases are on record where this condition at birth gave tlie impression that the infant was a female, the mistake not being discovered until ^ the penis had time fully to develop. Epispadias is a congenital defect in which there is a deficiency in the roof or upper wall of the ui'ethra. The opening in the urethra may be situated at any point between the normal site of the external urinary meatus and the pubis. In some cases the defect is associated with congenital absence of the pubic symphysis and with exstrophy of the bladder. The operations for restoring the urethra in hypospadias or epispadias consist of inverting and sliding flaps of skin so as to make the urethra extend to the glans. THE SCROTUM AND TESTICLE. The Scrotum is the pouch which hangs from the anterior part of the perineum and sul^pubic region at the root of the penis ; it contains the testicles and their pedicles—the spermatic cords. The layers of tissue in the scrotum or investing the testicles are : The skin, which forms a common investment for both testicles, and each testicle has an individual investment of dartos, external sper- matic fascia, middle spermatic fascia, internal spermatic fascia, and tunica vaginalis. The integument of the scrotum, formed chiefly by the prolongation down- ward of the integument of the abdomen and that of the perineum, is thin, trans- lucent, and darker in color than that of the penis; it is provided with sebaceous glands and hairs, and is thrown into transverse folds (ruga;). The presence of the furrows between the folds on the surface of the integument off'ers favor- able i)oints for the deposit of cutaneous excretions and foreign material; the conse(iuent irritation is at times one of the exciting factors in production of epithelioma of tliis part which, from the fact that it usually occurs in chimney- sweeps, is called " soot wart" or "chimney-sweeps' cancer." These furrows also favor retention of moisture, hence the liabilit}^ of the scrotum to eczema and other cutaneous lesions. It is very elastic and permits of great distention, as is seen in large scrotal hernia, tumors of the testicle, and hydrocele. Along the median line of the scrotum is the median raphe—a dark ridge, con- tinuous with the median raphe of the perineum, which shows the line of union of the two halves of the scrotum. When the scrotum is distended, the superficial veins are rendered prominent, and should be avoided when tapping a hydrocele. Dissection.—The integument of the penis and scrotum is reflected after making two incisions, one along the dorsum of the penis and the other along the under surface of that organ and along the raphe of the scrotum as far as the t 1