SURGICA L ANA TOMY. 490 terminal portion of the calloso-murginal fissure, above tlie horizontal portion of this fissure, and behind the paracentral fissure, or a line representing the exten- sion of the precentral fissure of the frontal lobe into the longitudinal fissure. The Occipital Lobe forms the posterior extremity of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, and is next to the smallest of the five divisions of the hemisphere of the cerebrum—the island of Reil being still smaller. It is triangular in shape, with its base directed forward and its apex backward ; it fills the su})erior fossa of the occipital bone, and rests upon the tentorium cerebelli. It presents three sur- faces : a lateral or convex, an inner or mesial, and a tentorial or basilar surface. Owing to the absence of a distinct line of demarcation the lateral surface of the occipital lobe is continuous with the corresponding surface of the parietal and tem- poro-sphenoid lobes, and the basilar surface of this lobe with the corresponding surface of the temporo-sphenoid lobe. The inner surface of the occipital lobe is clearly marked off from the corresponding surface of the parietal lobe by the median limb or main portion of the parieto-occipital fissure. A line drawn from the extremity of the lateral liml) of the parieto-occipital fissure over the external surface of the hemis])hcre to the preoccipital notch, and continued across the basilar surface to meet tbe end of the median liml> of this fissure, will })ractically mark off the anterior limit of this lobe upon tlie.se two surfaces. In studying the convolutions comprising the different lobes of the cerebrum, those of the occipital are the most difficult to understand. Upon the lateral sur- face of tbis lobe are three horizontal fissures, the superior, the middle, and the inferior occipital, with sometimes a fourth fiss-iure, vertical in direction, and known as the transverse occipital fissure. The transverse and the superior occipital fissure, the least variable of the four fissures, are the most important in tracing the convolutions of this surface. The transverse occipital fissure, into which the intra-parictal frequently opens, runs over tbe lateral surface of the lolie a short distance behind the terminal portion of the lateral limb of tlie parieto-oc"'yital fissure. The superior occipital fissure runs from l>efc)re l)ackward as though it were a continuation of the horizontal limb of the intra-parietal fissure. The middle occipital fissure is seldom well developed, and extends from before backward. Tlie inferior occipital fissure is fre(|uently interinpted by bridging convolu- tions, and runs from before backward along the line of junction of the lateral and basilar surfaces of the lobe. CoxvoLUTiONS.—Through the medium of the .sui)erior, middle, and inferior occipital fissures the lateral surface of the occipital lobe i.s divided into the sujierior or first, the middle or second, and the inferior or third occipital convolution.