97 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. terminal portion of the posterior auricular artery and joins the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein to form the external jugular vein. The posterior auricular nerve.—Running close to the posterior auricular artery is the posterior auricular nerve, the first branch given off from the facial after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It ascends in front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with the great auricular nerve and the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus it divides into two branches : an anterior, which supplies the retrahens aurem and the small muscles on the back of the pinna, and a posterior occipital, the larger, which passes along the superior curved line of the occipital bone, supplying the occipitalis muscle and communicating with the small occipital nerve. The ascending pharyngeal artery, a long, slender branch, the smallest given off from the external carotid artery, arises from the back part of that artery, about one-half of an inch above the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. At times, however, it arises fi-om the common carotid arter3\ It is situated deep in the neck, in relation with the internal carotid artery, and lies upon the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. It ascends between the internal carotid artery and the side of the pharynx, and beneath the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, to the base of the skull: here it enters the pharynx above the superior constrictor muscle, to end in the soft palate. It gives off prevertebral, pharyngeal, meningeal, palatine, and tympanic branches. The prevertebral branches are small vessels which pass outward to supply the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles, the sympathetic, pneumogastric, and hypo-glossal nerves, and the deep cervical chain of lymphatic glands. They anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. The pharyngeal branches, three or four in number, supply the upper and middle constrictor muscles, the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. The largest of these branches, the palatine, enters the pharynx above the superior constrictor muscle, and terminates in the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the tonsil; it takes the place of the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery when this vessel is small. The meningeal branches, three in number, enter the cranial cavity through the jugular foramen, in company with the internal jugular vein, through the anterior condyloid and middle lacerated foramina, to supply the dura mater. The tympanic branch traverses the tympanic canaliculus, together with the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, enters the tympanum, anasto- moses with the other tympanic arteries, and supplies the adjacent structures. The descending pharyngeal vein arises in a minute plexus at the back part II-7