228 SURGICAL ANATOMY. inferior, middle, and superior constrictor muscles,—with a few fibers from the stylo- pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles. I^he constrictor muscles of the pharynx are fiat, and are inserted into the median raplie on the posteris/r aspect of the organ. This raphe is formed by the interlacing, tendinous fibers of the muscles of the opposite sides, and extends down- ward from the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. The constrictor muscles are arranged so that the inferior overlaps the middle, and the middle overlaps the superior. The mferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx arises from the posterior part of the side of the cricoid cartilage behind the crico-thyroid muscle, from the inferior cornu, the oblique line, and the superior border of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibers diverge as they pass backward around the pharynx, to be inserted into the median rajohe. The lower fibers are almost horizontal, and are continuous with tlie muscular coat of the esophagus. The upper fibers ascend oblicjuely over the lower portion of the middle constrictor muscle, to be inserted into the raphe higher up. Passing beneath or through the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle at its origin are the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the inferior laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery on their way to the larynx. The middle constrictor muscle of the pJiarynx has a narrow origin from the stylo- hyoid ligament, the lesser cornu of the hyoid l)one, and the entire length of the upper surface of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. Its fibers diverge as they pass to the back of the pharjnix, to reach the median raphe. The lower fibers are almost horizontal, and pass beneath the upper part of the inferior constrictor muscle. The upper fibers pass obliquely upward over the lower part of the superior constrictor muscle, to reach the raphe near the base of the skull. Some of its tendinous fibers continue upward to the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. In the interval between the origins of the middle and inferior constrictor muscles, the internal laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve and the superior laryngeal artery pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane. Near the upper margin of the middle constrictor muscle runs the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and passing beneath that margin is the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Its origin is covered by the hyo- glossus muscle and the lingual artery, which lies between the hyo-glossus and the middle constrictor muscle. Dissection.—To expose the origin of the superior constrictor muscle it is necessary to remove the internal pterygoid muscle. In removing the origin of that muscle from the pterygoid fossa preserve the tensor palati muscle, which lies between the internal pterygoid muscle and the internal pterygoid plate. The snperior constrictor muscle is a thin, pale, (quadrilateral muscle. It arises