SURGICAL ANATOMY. 380 The Retina, the third and innermost coat of the eye, is the nervous tunic. It is the end organ of the optic nerve speciahzed for the function of vision. ]\Ior- phologically, it extends from the point of entrance of the optic nerve at the foramen sclerce to the free margin of the iris. It consists of three parts: The posterior portion is situated between the choroid and tlie vitreous body, and extends from the optic nerve entrance to the ciliary body, where the retina suddenly becomes thin along an irregular line, thus forming the ora serrata. This posterior portion is called the optic part, or pars optica retinae, and termin- ates at the ora serrata. The next portion, the ciliary part, or the pars ciliaris retinae, lines the inner surface of the ciliary body, extending as far forward as the insertion of the iris. The anterior portion lines the internal surface of the iris, and is called the pars iridica retinae. The pars optica retinse is the only part which has much visual function ; because the pars ciliaris and pars iridica retinse are mainly continuations of the pigment layer beyond the ora serrata, at which the highly specialized layers of the retina suddenly diminish in thickness. When viewed from the interior, a circle is seen at the jDoint of entrance of the optic nerve. This is called the optic disc. It is sometimes called the porus opticus, but this name should be applied only to the foramen in the lamina crib- rosa traversed by the central artery of the retina. This disc lies one-tenth of an inch or two and one-half millimeters to the inner side of the posterior pole of the eye. As this is the blind spot of the retina, it is placed outside of the direct line of vision. Exactly in the center of the retina, at the posterior pole, and in the direct line of vision, a small yellow spot, called the macula lutea, is seen in a fresh eye; the depression in the center of the macula lutea is termed the fovea centralis. The macula lutea is the ■^omi at which vision is most acute. For that reason it is situated in a line with the centers of the lens, puj)il, and cornea, so that it receives the rays of light brought to a focus by the lens. Rays from other points, passing through the lens, strike other portions of the pars optica retinie and produce collateral vision, which is less distinct. The retina is derived from the two layers of the optic cup, which is an extension of the anterior cerebral vesicle and is, therefore, ectodermic in origin. The outer layer of the cup remains as the pigment layer of the retina, while the inner layer gives rise to the remaining and more specialized portion of it. During life the inner layer is pink and transparent; but after death it becomes hazy and opaque. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the retina is derived partly from the arteria centralis retinse, which can be seen entering the eye at the optic disc. It gives off an ascending and a descending branch, each of which has a small nasal «