SURGICAL ANATOMY. 518 of these fibers form a long, rounded elevation, the bulb of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. ^ The under surface of the body of the corpus callosum is connected along the middle line with the fornix and the septum lucidum, while laterally it forms the roof of the lateral ventricles. Dissection.—Make two sagittal incisions from before backward, through the corpus callosum, from three-eighths to one-half an inch, or one centimeter, to each side of the median line ; this will open the lateral ventricles—cavities which occu})}' the interior of the hemispheres of the cerebrum. To expose the interior of one or both lateral ventricles so as fully to disclose the contained structures, cut away with a pair of scissors as much of the corpus callosum on each side of the incision as may be necessary. This dissection will not open the middle or descend- ing cornu ; to accomplish this a section of the lateral portion of the hemisphere (temporo-sphenoid lobe) must be removed. This can be done either from without inward or from within outward by following the course of the cornu with the scalpel. The Lateral Ventricles (trihorned ventricles, ventriculi tricornes) are two irregularly shaped cavities, one of which is situated in each hemisphere of the cere- brum. The}^ communicate with the third ventricle by way of the foramina of Monro, and through the third ventricle with the fourth ventricle, by way of the acjueduct of Sylvius, or iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. They are lined b}'' a meml)rane, the ependyma, who.se function is to secrete part of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Each of the ventricles, which are separated in front by a vertical partition, the septum lucidum, consists of four parts: a body, or central portion, and three horns, or cornua. The cornua are designated anterior, middle or descending, and posterior, and extend, respectively, into the frontal, the temporo-sphenoid, and the occipital lobe of the cerebrum. The body of the lateral ventricle is triangular in shape in a coronal section, its antero-posterior diameter being the longest, and its vertical diameter the shortest. It extends from the foramen of Monro to the splenium of the corpus cal- losum. It is bounded above by the corpus callosum ; internally, by the posterior narrow portion of the septum lucidum, and the attachment of the corpus callosum to tlie fornix ; and e-rternall;/, by the merging angle formed by the corpus cal- lo.sum and tlie white .sub.stance of the hemisphere. Its floor is formed by the fol- lowing parts, named in their order from without inward : the intra-ventricular por- tion of the corpus striatum, or caudate nucleus, the ttenia semicircularis and a small vein of the corpus striatum contained in an oblicpie groove, the optic thala- nuis, the choroid plexus, half of the body of the fornix, with its lateral edge or corpus fimbriatum.