392 SURGICAL ANATOMY. the structures at this angle is most important, for it is here that the excess of the aqueous humor escapes into the spaces of Fontana, and thence by way of the canal of Schlemn into the anterior ciliary veins, thus reducing intra-ocular tension. * Hypopyon is a collection of pus in the anterior chamber of the eye, and arises from su})purative inflammation of the cornea, iris, ciliary body, and choroid. Pus passes from the ciliary body through the pectinate ligament of the iris or the attached margin of the iris to reach the anterior chamber, causing cloudiness of the aqueous humor, and its solid portion gravitates to the most dependent part of the anterior chamber, varying its position with movements of the head. Hy- popyon is crescentic in form, like onyx, but the latter is stationary. The posterior chamber of the eye is a circular space, triangular on cross- section, and situated behind the iris. It is bounded in front by the iris; behind, by the lens and zone of Zinn ; and externally, by the anterior portion of the ciliary body. It is limited internally by the pupillary margin of the iris. The Lymphatic System of the Eyeball contains no lymphatic vessels except those of the conjunctiva, the lymph being in spaces. These S})aces are divided into an anterior and a posterior set. The anterior lymph passages of the eye include the lymi)h spaces of the cornea and iris, and the anterior and posterior chambers of tlie eyeball. The hjmpli spaces of the cornea are situated between tlie lamelke of the corneal substance. At the periphery of the cornea the lymph flows into the conjunctival lymphatic vessels. The lymph spaces of the iris open into the aqueous humor of the anterior chamber of the eye at small indentations called the crypts of the iris, and at the periphery of the iris communicate with the spaces of Fontana. The arpieous humor is composed of lympli situated in the anterior and pos- terior chambers of the eye. It is secreted in the posterior chamber from the plexus of vessels in the ciliary body, and partly from the vessels in the posterior surface of the iris. The aqueous humor passes from the posterior chamber through the pu})il into the anterior chamber of the eye, and escapes by way of the spaces of Fontana, tlie canal of Schlemm, and the anterior ciliary veins. The posterior lymph passages of the eye include the hyaloid canal, the peri- choroid space, Tenon's space, the intervaginal sj)ace of the optic nerve, and the supra-vaginal space. Tlie hyaloid canal, or central canal of the vitreous body, extends from tlie optic disc forward to the posterior pole of the lens. In the embryo it contains the hyaloid artery, which disappears later, although the canal remains as a lymph channel which is drained by the intervaginal space of tlie optic nerve. The perichoroid lymph space, situated between the choroid and the sclera, is