SURGICAL ANATOMY. 584 vessels which must be divided are "the facial, inferior labial, mental, mylo-hyoid, inferior dental, and masseteric arteries and veins. Excision of the condyle of the lower jaw is performed most commonly for disease of the temporo-maxillar}' articulation causing impaired movement in that jaw. A vertical incision is carried from the zygoma downward over the condyle of the lower jaw, to a point just above the position of the transverse facial artery, which is one centimeter, or less than one-half of an inch, below and parallel with the zygoma. A second incision is carried forward along the lower margin of the zygoma for one inch, or 2.5 centimeters. The flap thus outlined is reflected for- ward and downward, avoiding the temporal branches of the facial nerve. T]ie posterior fibers of the masseter muscle are detached from the zygoma, and the capsule of the temporo-maxillary joint is opened. The neck of the condyle is divided with a chisel or a small saw, the condyle being firmly held with a small hook. The condyle is twisted out of the glenoid fossa, and the external pterygoid tendon and capsular ligament are divided. The instruments are kept close to the bone, to avoid injuring the temporal, internal maxillary, and masseteric vessels, the auriculo-temporal and masseteric nerves, and the parotid gland. Development of the Bones of the Skull.—The bones of the vault of the cranium are developed in membrane, and those of the base of the skull are formed in cartilage. Just before birth the bones of the vault are imperfectly ossified at their margins, so that they are joined by membrane instead of by sutures. This condition of the bones allows diminution in the diameters of the fetal skull at birth by overlapping of the bones of the cranial vault. At birth the bones are incompletely ossified at the angles of the parietal bone; these membranous areas are called fontanels. The posterior fontanel is triangular in shape, is situated at the lambda, and closes during the first few months after birth. The anterior fontanel is quadrilateral, is located at the bregma, and closes during the latter lialf of the second year. The antero-lateral fontanels, situated at the anterior inferior angles of the parietal bones, and the postero-lateral fontanels, situated at the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bones, close soon after birth. Imperfect or delayed ossifica- tion at the fontanels occurs in hydrocephalus. Fractures of the Skull.—The bones of the skull in young children are not readily fractured. When force is applied to the vault of the skull of a young infant, it is merely indented, ossification being so incomplete that tlie bones are flexible.