OPERATIONS UPON NERVES OF HEAD AND NECK. 199 exposed, the supra-orbital vessels being on its outer side. The palpebral fascia is divided, the orbital fat depressed, and the nerve traced into the orbit as far as possible, so that the frontal nerve may be reached and divided just before it l)ifur- cates into the supra-orbital and supra-trochlear nerves. About an inch of the supra-orbital nerve is resected. The supra-orbital vessels may be injured. The supra-orbital artery may be ligated through the same incision. The infra-orbital nerve may be resected through an incision three-fourths of an inch long, made about one-fourth to three-eighths of an inch below, and parallel with, the infra-orbital margin, so that its center will lie over the infra-orbital foramen, which is situated in a line drawn from the supra-orbital notch to the second bicuspid tooth of the upper jaw, and between one-fourth and three-eighths of an inch below the infra-orbital margin. The skin, superficial fascia, orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and levator labii superioris muscle are divided, the nerve is drawn out of the foramen, and as much as possible resected. The superior maxillary nerve is resected in the spheno-maxillary fossa by way of the antrum of Ilighmore, or through an incision at the side of the face. These operations are described in volume i, page 563. The Gasserian ganglion is removed through an osteo-plastic resection of the temporal region, or l)y way of the pterygo-maxillary region. (See Vol. i, page 595.) The inferior maxillary nerve is exposed at its exit from the foramen ovale. The reflected flap is square, its attached margin being below. Two vertical incisions are made, parallel with the margins of the ramus of the lower jaw, and extend from the level of the vipper margin of the zygoma to half way down the ramus ; the upper extremities of the incisions are connected by a transverse in'^'ision. The skin and superficial fascia are divided, the zygoma is sawed at each end, the temporal fascia and the masseteric fascia are divided, the zygoma and the mas- seter muscle are displaced downward, and the masseteric vessels and nerve are severed. Care is required to avoid injuring Stenson's duct and some of the large branches of the facial nerve which are at the attached margin of the flap. The coronoid process of the lower jaw is divided and reflected vipward with the temporal muscle ; and the upper head of the external pterygoid muscle is sepa- rated from the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid bone and displaced downward. The nerve can then be exposed at the foramen ovale and divided with scissors. The small meningeal artery is necessarily divided with the nerve. The foramen ovale is situated about one-fourth of an inch in front of the spine of the sphenoid bone, just behind the base of the external pterygoid plate, and in a transverse line passing through the eminentia articularis of the temporal bone. This operation is hardly justifiable on account of the number of important tissues Injured, the resulting paralysis of the muscles of mastication and of the mjdo-hyoid muscle