116 SURGICAL ANATOMY. nerves. The principal landmark for finding this nerve is the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, around which it curves. Beyond the stylo-pharyngeus muscle the glosso- pHferyngeal nerve lies on the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx. The ter- minal portion of the nerve lies beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, where it divides into two terminal lingual branches, one sup})lying the mucous membrane covering the posterior third of the dorsum of the tongue, and the other the mucous mem- brane of the side of the tongue, inosculating with the lingual nerve. The glosso- pharyngeal is a nerve of motion, sensation, and special sense (taste): of motion, to the muscles of the pharynx ; of sensation, to the mucous membrane of the fauces, tonsil, and pharynx ; and of taste, to the base of the tongue and the fauces. It leaves the cranial cavity by way of the middle compartment of the jugular foramen, clothed by a separate sheath of the dura mater, and lying in advance of, and a little internal to, the pneumogastric and spinal accessor}^ nerves. Having made its exit from the foramen, it descends between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, crosses over the latter vessel obliquely, and passes beneath the styloid process and the muscles arising therefrom, to reacli the posterior border of the stylo-})haryngeus muscle, as previously described. Upon the trunk of the nerve in the jugular foramen are two ganglia : an upper, the jiignlar, and a lower, the petrous. The former is inconstant, and both are considered analogous to the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. At the petrous ganglion (ganglion of Andersch), the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is con- nected witli the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves by communicating branches. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, other than the terminal lingual and the communicating, are the meningeal, tym})anic, carotid, })liar3'ngeal, muscular, and tonsillar. The rnenirif/cal hrunclies arise within the cranial cavity, and are distributed to the i)ia mater and arachnoid. Tlie tiimpanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) arises from the petrous ganglion, and passes to the inner wall of the tympanum through a bony canal (the tympanic canaliculus) the orifice of which is situated upon the ridge of bone between the carotid canal and the jugular fossa. It ramifies upon the promontory of the tym- panum, forming tlie tympanic j)lexu8, which supplies branches to the round and oval windows, and to the Eustachian tube, and communicates with the carotid plexus and with the great and small superficial petrosal nerves. Tlie carotid hrancJie.^ surround the cervical ])ortion of the internal carotid artery, and communicate with the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves. The pharynf/eal branches, three or four in number, join branches from the pneumogastric, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, and from the pharyn- geal plexus, which supplies the pharynx.