SURGICAL ANATOMY. 508 position of the great longitudinal fissure. The anterior of these passes through the preauricular fossa, and the posterior passes along the posterior border of the ^astoid process. From the point of intersection of the posterior perpendicular line with that of the great longitudinal fissure to the point of intersection of the ante- rior perpendicular line with that of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, draw a third line, which represents the position of the fissure of Rolando. The fissure of Rolando may also be located by drawing a line downward, outward, and forward from a point one-half of an inch, or one centimeter, behind a point mid- way between the glabella and inion and at an angle of 71.5 degrees with the anterior portion of the line for the longitudinal fissure. The angle formed l)y the fissure of Rolando and the anterior portion of the longitudinal fissure varies, but, in any instance, the line for the fissure is merely an approximate guide. The fissure measures about three and three-eighth inches, or eight and one-half centi- meters, in length. Upon each side of and running parallel with the fissure of Rolando are the ascending frontal and ascending jiarietal convolutions, each of wdiich occupies a space about three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, in Avidth. Parieto-occipital fissure.—Extend the line indicating the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius backward to that of the longitudinal fissure, and the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure will be represented by about the posterior inch, or 2.5 centimeters, of this line. The lateral i)ortion of the parieto-occipital fissure is also found from three to three and one-half inches, or eight to nine centimeters, above the external occipital ^protuberance. Frontal Lobe.—Through the medium of the lines indicating the course of the primary fissures of the hemisphere the lobes are mapped out. The frontal lobe lies external to the line of the longitudinal fissure, in front of the line of the fissure of Rolando, and al)ove the lines for the lower level of the cerebrum and for the main and liorizontal limbs of the fissure of Sylvius. Tlie course of the secondary fissures and the position of the convolutions of this lobe will be repre- sented by the following lines: A line drawn from the supra-orbital notch back- ward and parallel with tlie line of the longitudinal fissure to within about three- fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, of the line of the fissure of Rolando indicates the course of the superior frontal sulcus. A line drawn from the external angular process of the frontal bone upward and backward along the temporal ridge to within about three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, of the line of the fissure of Rolando indicates the course of the inferior frontal fissure. A lino drawn three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, in front of, and parallel with, the lower two-thirds of the line of the fi.ssure of Rolando indicates, approxi- mately, the course of the i)recontral fis.sure. The superior frontal convolution