SURGICAL ANATOMY. 238 the sphenoid bone and the basilar process of the occipital bone. Below, it leads into the esophagus. While studying the relations of the pharynx, it is well to observe some important facts associated therewith. The body of the sphenoid bone and the basilar process of the occipital bone and the upper three cervical vertebrae can be palpated with the finger inserted into the pharynx. The anterior arch of the atlas is in the same transverse plane as the hard palate; the body of the axis is in the same transverse plane as the cutting edges of the upper teeth ; and the body of the third cervical vertebra is just below that of the axis. In necrosis of the body of the sphenoid bone, basilar process of the occipital bone, anterior arch of the atlas, and bodies of the upper cervical vertebrae, pus and pieces of bone may be discharged through the pharynx and mouth. Sharp foreign bodies which have perforated the wall of the pharynx may wound one of the carotid arteries or the internal jugular vein. Blood Supply.—From the ascending pharjmgeal artery, the tonsillar and ascending palatine branches of the facial artery, the superior laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery, and the inferior laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery. Nerve Supply.—From the pharyngeal plexus of nerves. The Veins of the Pharynx are arranged as a plexus which is situated between the constrictor muscles and the prevertebral fascia. This plexus communicates above with the pterygoid plexus of veins, and empties into the terminal portion of the facial vein or into the internal jugular vein. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Upper Portion of the Pharynx terminate in the post-pharyngeal gland ; those of the middle portion, in the superior deep cervi- cal glands ; and those of the lower portion, in the inferior deep cervical lymphatic glands. The Soft Palate is a musculo-membranous and freely movable curtain. Its anterior margin is attached to the posterior border of the hard palate ; its posterior margin is free, and forms the upper boundary of the isthmus of the fauces. From the center of this curved margin the uvula is suspended. The lateral margins are attached to the side of the pharynx. Its upper surface is convex ; its lower, con- cave. The mucous membrane on the upper surface is continuous with that of the floor of the nasal cavities, and the mucous membrane of its loM'er surface with that of the roof of the mouth. Between its two layers of mucous membrane are the two levatores palati, two tensores palati, the palato-pharyngeus, palato-glossus, and azygos uvulse muscles, an aponeurosis, glandular tissue, vessels, and nerves. The under surface of the soft palate contains a prominence a short distance behind the last molar tooth. This elevation is produced by the hamular process of the in-