DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 65 Dissection.—Divide the sterno-mastoid muscle at about its middle, and reflect the two portions. This exposes the descendens hypoglossi nerve, which lies upon the sheath of the vessels, the communicantes hypoglossi nerves, the ansa hypoglossi, the tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle, the sheath of the vessels, the spinal accessory nerve, the phrenic nerve, the cervical plexus, the anterior scalene muscle, and a portion of the subclavian vessels and some of their branches. The spinal acces- sory and phrenic nerves, the cervical plexus, the anterior scalene muscle, and the subclavian vessels are covered by the posterior portion of the two processes of the deep cervical fascia (prevertebral), overlaid by some areolar and fatty tissue. Re- move the fat and areolar tissue with the layer of fascia (prevertebral) covering the structures just named, inferior thyroid, and the vertebral supra-scapular, transversalis colli, and vertebral arteries. THE CERVICAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. The cervical plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the upper four cer- vical nerves. It is situated in the upper part of the neck, beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, and rests upon the scalenus medius and levator anguli scapulae muscles. It differs from the axillary or brachial plexus in resembling a network rather than a bundle of cords. Each nerve, excepting the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch ; these unite with similar parts of the contigu- ous nerves, thus forming a plexus. The branches of the plexus are divided into a superficial and a deep set; the superficial set of branches has been described with the superficial fascia of the neck. The deep set of branches is, for conveni- ence, divided into an internal and an external series. The internal series includes the phrenic, communicantes hypoglossi, muscular, and communicating branches; the external series includes muscular and communicating branches. The phrenic nerve, the internal respiratory nerve of Bell, supplies the diaphragm. It arises from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and receives a communicating branch from the fifth. It passes downward and inward over the anterior surface of the anterior scalene muscle, beneath the omo-hyoid muscle, the transversalis colli and supra-scapular arteries, and the thoracic duct (left side), and enters the upper opening of the chest behind the subclavian vein, and in front of the subclavian artery. It then crosses in front of the internal mammary artery, from without inward, and the root of the lung, and passes through the middle mediastinum between the mediastinal layer of the pleura and the pericardium, to reach the diaphragm, which it pierces for final distribution upon its lower surface. At the lower part of the neck it is joined by a filament of the sympathetic nerve, and at times by a branch from the nerve to the subclavius muscle. In the chest it II—5