SURGICAL ANATOMY. 300 found in the inferior meatus. If these bodies are retained for a long time, concretions of calcareous matter adhere to them and thus rliinoUihs are formed. The turbinated bones or other portions of the walls of the nasal cavities may be^he site of necrosis, which causes a purulent discharge usually from one nostril. The carious bone should be removed, and when the disease is situated high up, Rouge's operation offers a good exposure of the nasal cavities. In this operation the upper lip is everted, and the tissues of the lip and nose are detached from the external surface of the superior maxillse. A chronic purulent discharge from one nostril is usually caused by the presence of a foreign body or carious bone in the nasal fossa or one of its accessory cavities ; and from both nostrils by constitutional disease, as syphilis. The nasal cavities are divided, according to function, into the olfactory portion, which includes the superior meatus, middle turbinated bone, and upper two-thirds of the septum of the nose, and the respiratory portion, wliieh includes the middle meatus, inferior turbinated bone, inferior meatus, and lower one-third of the septum. The nasal cavities are lined by a mucous membrane (Schneiderian or pitui- tary membrane) which is continuous with that of the pharynx, sphenoid and ethmoid cells, frontal sinuses, antra of Highmore or maxillary sinuses, lacrymo- nasal ducts, and lacrymal sacs. This continuity with the adjacent mucous membrane and with the lining of the accessory cavities of the nose, as the various air sinuses are called, is very important to remember, for there is a marked inter- relation existing between the diseases of these various parts. Empyema of the frontal and ethmoid air sinuses, for instance, and of the antrum of Highmore is usually dependent upon disease of the nasal mucosa. In the olfactory portion the muco,sa is of a j'cllowish color, which gradually fades below, making no marked line between the mucous membrane of the two portions. Over the nasal sei)tum it is rather firmly adherent to the underlying perio.steum ; at times submucous hematomata of the septum are seen after injury of the nose. On the anterior inferior portion of the septum the mucous memlirane presents a little diverticulum, Avhich is the remains of Jacobson's organ. This organ is more highly developed in the lower animals. At the upper two-thirds of the septum and outer wall (in the olfactory portion) the mucous membrane is delicate and thin, and contains tlie branches of the olfactory nerve. In the lower or respiratory portion of the nasal fossa the nmcous membrane is thicker, more vascular, and pale red in color. This is especially noticeable over the lower borders and posterior extremities of the middle and inferior turbinated bones, where it is soft and boggy and projects beyond the bones. This condition is due to the presence of a large number of veins in the submucous layer of the mucous membrane of the middle and inferior