THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 453 upper surface of the cerebellum. Here they divide into branches which anasto- mose with the corresponding artery of the opposite side and with the inferior cerebellar artery. The Posterior Cerebral Arteries, the two terminal branches of the basilar, wind around the crura cerebri, and, running parallel with the superior cerebellar, from which they are separated by the oculo-motor nerves, reach the inner surface of the posterior part of the cerebrum. As noted, they are joined to the internal carotid arteries by the posterior communicating branches of the latter vessels. They supply the occipital and temporo-sphenoid lobes, and anastomose with the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Like the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, the posterior cerebral gives off central and cortical branches. The central branches are as follows : Small •branches which pass through the posterior perforated space to supply the oj^tic thalamus and the Avails of the third ventricle ; the posterior choroid, which passes through the transverse fissure to reach the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus ; while others run to the optic thalamus, crus cerebri, and corpora quadri- gemina. The cortical branches are distributed to the adjacent parts of the tem- poral and occipital lobes. Anastomoses of Cerebral Arteries.—Between the cortical and the central branches of the arteries which supply the brain there is no anastomosis ; conse- quently, these two sets of branches form two independent systems. The cortical branches, however, may and do anastomose with each other, but seldom sufficiently to nourish a portion of the bra'n from which the blood current through the main artery suppljung it has been cut off. In other words, the central vessels differ from the vessels of the upper or lower extremity in not being able to establish a collateral circulation Avhich will perform the office of the principal vessel in the event of its being seriously disabled. In this respect they resemble the vessels of the lungs, kidneys, and retina. The central branches do not anastomose with each other; therefore, obstruction of one of the chief vessels of the brain will result in softening of the region supplied by its central branches, while softening of the region supplied by its cortical branches does not necessarily follow. Peculiarities of the Arteries to the Brain.—In studying the course of the four large arteries—the two internal carotids and the two vertebrals—which enter the cranial cavity to supply the brain, the dissector will doubtless become aware of the following peculiarities': First, their length and tortuosity ; second, that the four arteries anastomose freely by means of the circle of Willis ; nnd, third, that their numerous and small branches run through the third and inner- most membrane of the brain,—the pia mater,—l>y means o^ duplications of which they reach the interior of the brain. The tortuosity of these arteries diminishes