THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 411 laginous portion of the tube, is situated at the junction of the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone; the isthmus tubse, its narrowest portion, is situated at the junction of the bony and cartilaginous parts. The Eustachian tube is lined with mucous membrane which is continuous with that of the naso-pharynx and that lining the middle ear. Consec][uently inflammatory processes of the naso-pharynx, l)y direct continuity of the tissues, may lead to involvement of the middle ear. The tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube is situated in the anterior wall of the tympanum, about four millimeters above the floor of that cavity, and the pharyngeal orifice is in the lateral wall of the naso- pharynx, behind the posterior naris, at the level of the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinated bone. Normally the canal is closed, except during swallowing, when it is opened by the tensor palati muscle, levator palati muscle, and the salpingo-pharyngeus, which is the portion of the palato-pharyngeus muscle attached to the Eustachian tube. The action of these muscles during swallowing affords an opportunity to inflate the middle ear by way of the nose, naso-phaiynx, and Eustachian tube. In Politzer's method of inflation of the middle ear the patient takes some water in his mouth ; the nozle of a caoutchouc bag which contains air is inserted into one nostril; the nostrils are closed with the fingers of one hand ; and as the patient swallows the water the bag is suddenly and forcibly compressed with the other hand. In the method of Valsalva the patient closes the mouth and nose firmly and puffs out the cheeks by a forcible effort at expiration. Air is driven through the Eustachian tube, and a sense of pressure and fullness is felt in the middle ear. This method is not altogether safe, on account of the increased ten- sion produced in the blood-vessels and the danger of hemorrhages and apoplexy. The middle ear may also be inflated by the caoutchouc bag and Eustachian catheter ; the method for introducing the catheter is described with the pharynx. The Eustachian tube may be closed by the extension of hypertrophic nasal and naso-pharyngeal catarrh into the tube, or the pharyngeal orifice of the tube may be obstructed mechanically by growths of the nose or naso-pharynx. Occlusion of this tube causes autophony, or loud but muffled sound of the individual's voice, tinnitus aurium, or false sounds in the ears, a sensation of ten- sion or distention in the ears, and more or less deafness. In the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube and near the pharyngeal end of the tube there are a few m ucous glands and a quantity of lymphoid tissue; this latter is sometimes referred to as the tubal tonsil. Relations.—On the outer side of the Evistachian tube are the tensor palati and levator palati muscles, the otic ganglion, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the middle meningeal artery ; on the inner side is the wall of the pharynx.