482 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Rolando; its lower end is between the latter fissure and the ascending limb of the fissure of Sylvius. This fissure usually consists of two i)arts, a suj)erior and an inferior precentral fissure, the former of which is, as a rule, continuous with the sf^erior frontal fissure, and the inferior at times with the inferior frontal fissure. The ascending frontal convolution is situated between the precentral fissure and the fissure of Rolando, and extends along the entire anterior border of the latter fissure. This convolution is continuous with the ascending parietal convolu- tion around Ijoth ends of the fissure of Rolando, immediately behind which the latter convolution is situated. The superior or first frontal convolution is continuous posteriorly with the ascending frontal, internally with the marginal, and anteriorly upon the basilar surface with the gyrus rectus and the internal and anterior orbital convolutions. The middle or second frontal convolution is continuous in front with the an- terior orbital convolution and the anterior extremities of the superior and inferior frontal convolutions. Posteriorly, it frequently bridges the precentral fissure, and joins the ascending frontal convolution. . The inferior or third frontal convolution is continuous behind with the as- cending frontal convolution, and in front, upon the inferior or basilar surface, with the anterior and posterior orbital convolutions. Through the medium of the an- terior and ascending limbs of the fissure of Sylvius, both of which extend into this convolution, it is divided'into three parts: namely, that in front of the ante- rior limb, the pars orbitalis ; that between the anterior and the ascending limb, the pars triangularis (base of triangle looks upward) ; and that behind the ascending- limb, the pars basilaris (Brooks). This convolution, as before mentioned, assists in the formation of the operculum. The inferior or orbital surface of the frontal lobe is triangular in shape ; the base, directed backward, is formed by the anterior perforated space and the main portion of the fissure of Sylvius. The apex is directed forward, and is formed by the curving of the convolutions in passing from the convex to the orbital surface. The sides are formed by the longitudinal fissure and the lower border of the hemi- sphere. On this surface are two secondary fissures, the olfactory and the orbital. The olfactory fissure runs parallel with the longitudinal fissure and a short distance external to it. It lodges the olfactory tract and bulb. The orbital or triradiate fissure is situated about the middle of the portion of this surface, which lies external to the olfactorj' fissure. It consists of a main portion, which is directed forward and runs nearly parallel with the olfactory fis- sure, and of two branches, one directed backward and inward, and the other outward. The gyrus rectus is situated between the olfactory and longitudinal fissures.