SURGICAL ANATOMY. 190 glossus muscle care is required. Instead of dividing the hyo-glossus muscle, the arterj^ may be ligatured immediately before it passes under the outer border of that m^cle. The fird portion of the lingual artery is reached through an incision one inch long, carried from tlie sterno-mastoid muscle forward along the upper border of the greater cornu of the liyoid bone. The position of the patient should ])e the same as that for the foregoing operation. Skin, superficial fascia, platysma mj'oides muscle, and superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided. The submaxillary gland is displaced \xp\vard, and the process of deep fascia beneath the gland divided. The lingual vein and hypo-glossal nerve are exposed and drawn upward, and the artery secured as it passes under the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus muscle. This operation is more difficult than ligature of the second portion of the vessel; this is due to the fact that tlie lingual vein, hypo-glossal nerve, stylo-hyoid muscle, and posterior belly of the digastric muscle lie in front of the artery. This portion of the artery may be secured at its origin through an incision two inches long, made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The center of the incision should be opposite the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The location of the external carotid artery is ascertained, as described under ligature of that vessel, and the origin of the lingual artery located opposite the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The hypo-glossal nerve and lingual and facial veins must be avoided. Irregularities.—The most common irregularities of the lingual artery are the following : It -may arise from a trunk common to it and the facial artery, or from a trunk common to the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. It may pierce the hyo-glossus muscle. Occasionally it is given off as a branch of the facial or internal maxillary artery. Its sublingual branch may arise from the facial artery, and the hyoid branch may be absent. The facial artery may be secured at its origin or as it passes over the lower border of the lower jaw at the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle. To ligature the facial artery at its origin, which is just above that of the lingual artery, an incision should be made similar to that for ligation of the external carotid artery, except that the center of the incision should be just above the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The fticial and lingual veins, anterior division of the temporo- maxillary vein, and hypo-glossal nerve should be avoided. To tie the artery as it turns over the lower border of the lower jaw, an incision one incli long should be made below and parallel with this border of the jaw, so that tlie resulting scar will not be prominent. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided. As the facial vein is behind the artery, the needle should be passed from behind forward. Irregularity.—The irregularity of the facial artery which is of imi)ortance