628 SURGICAL ANATOMY. being called the neck of the penis. The vertical linear orifice at the apex of the glans is the external vrmnry mecdm, or cvternal orifice of the urethra. The skin of the penis is pigmented, thin, and highly elastic, and is loosely- attached to the body of the ])enis by the subcutaneous tissue. On the under sur- face of the penis it contains the continuation of the highly i)igmented raphe of the ]ierineum and scrotum. At the neck of the penis it extends over the glans as a double fold, called the prepuce, or foreskin. The skin of the glans is closely adherent. The frenum of the prepuce is a small median fold extending from the prepuce to the under surface of the glans. It contains vessels which cause con- siderable hemorrhage if cut or torn. The frenum of the prepuce is sometimes torn in coitus when the vaginal orifice is small. Sebaceous glands are found in the skin of the penis. These are especially numerous at the neck of the penis, and secrete an odorous whitish substance, called smegma prseputii. When the prepuce is long and covers the glans, this secretion collects, and its odor causes considerable annoyance. When the prepuce covers the glans and the preputial orifice is small, a congenital phimosis exists. The dartos is the subcutaneous tissue of the penis, and is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum. Its more superficial portion is composed of loose connective tissue which permits excessive swelling in edema of the penis. Like the dartos of the scrotum, it contains unstriped muscle fibers. Its deep portion is more dense, and forms a fascial sheath of great elasticity, which invests the three bodies of the penis and at the angle of the penis is continuous with the suspensory ligament of the organ. The dartos extends between the two layers of skin forming the prepuce, and at the preputial orifice its muscular fibers, according to Sappey, form the .^pJiincter of the prepuce. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a strong fibrous band which is attached to the lower part of the linea alba and to the front of the symphysis pubis ; it blends with the fascial sheath of the penis just anterior to the bodies of the pubic bones. The angle of the penis is at the point of suspension, or where the dependent portion of the flaccid organ is joined b}' the su.spensory ligament. The Urethra is the urinar}'canal ; it extends from the internal urinary meatus at the neck of the bladder through the prostate gland, triangi;lar ligament, and spongy body of the penis to the external urinary meatus, and is divided into the prostatic, meml)ranous, and spongy portions. The length of the urethra in the flaccid condition of the penis, as determined by frozen sections, is from six to six and a half inches, or about sixteen centimeters, This may be increased by enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate gland. The diameter of the canal varies with the .size of the individual and the penis, the