THE LARYNX. 273 be fed through a stomach tube ; or he may successfully feed himself by leaning his body far forward and sucking liquid food through a tube. After a time the mus- cles of the larynx may act as a sphincter, thus preventing food from entering the larynx. The thyroid cartilage is of the hyaline variety, and forms the greater part of the anterior and lateral walls of the larynx. It is composed of two wings, or alfe, connected in the median line, forming almost a right angle. The alx are irregularly quadrilateral in form. Their upper borders, where they meet in the median line, dip downward, leaving a deep thyroid notch or in- cisura thyroidea. Behind they terminate in the anterior margins of the superior cornua. Anterior to the superior cornua each ala presents a tubercle, which is placed at the upper end of the oblique line. To the upper border of the alas is attached the thyro-hyoid membrane. The loiver border of the cartilage is not so sinuous as the upper border; it ter- minates, behind, in the anterior margins of the inferior cornua ; and presents a tubercle, which is located at the lower end of the oblique line. It gives attach- ment to the central portion of the crico-thyroid membrane and to the crico-thyroid muscles. The posterior border is continuous with the posterior borders of the superior and inferior cornua. It gives attachment to the stylo-pharyngeus and palato- pharyngeus muscles, and to the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the ala presents an oblique line, which inclines down- ward and slightly forward. The oblique line gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The surface belnnd the oblique line is covered by the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, Avhich arises just behind the line. The inner surface of the ala is slightly concave. It is in relation with the mucous membrane of the sinus pyriformis, with the thyro-hyoid and lateral crico- arytenoid muscles, and with the lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane. The superior cornua are longer than the inferior, and extend upward, inward, and backward. They are attached to the greater cornua of the hyoid bone by the thyro-hyoid ligaments. The inferior cornua are short, and directed downward, forward, and inward. On their inner surfaces they have concave facets for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. They give attachment to the inferior constrictor and crico-thyroid muscles, and to the capsular ligaments of the crico-thyroid articulations. The angle is at the line of junction of the alae, is more prominent ?bove, where it is called the pomum Adami, and lies beneath the interval between the sterno-hyoid muscles. Internally it gives attachment, on each side of the median line, to the true and the false vocal cords. For the purpose of making the interior 11—18