98 SURGICAL ANATOMY. and side of tlie pharynx. After receiving meningeal branches, the veins from the soft palate and Eustachian tube, and the Vidian vein, it terminates in the in- ternal jugular vein. It occasionally empties into the facial vein. Internal maxillary and temporal arteries.—The description of the internal maxillary artery is given under the Dissection of the Pterygo-maxillary Region. The temporal artery is described under the Dissection of the Face. The Submaxillary Triangle (continued).— The digastric muscle consists of two _ muscular bellies, an anterior and a posterior, united by an intervening tendon. The posterior belly, the larger of the two, arises from the digastric groove, which lies to the inner side of the base of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; the anterior belly, the shorter of the two, arises from the depression on the deep surface of the lower jaw at the side of the symphysis. The fibers of the posterior belly are directed downward, forward, and inward ; those of the anterior, downward and backward to the intervening tendon, which pierces the stylo-hyoid muscle, and is connected to the side of the body of the h3'oid bone by a process of the deep cervical fascia lined with a synovial mem- brane. A broad aponeurotic expansion—the supra-hyoid aponeurosis—is given off on each side from the tendon of the digastric muscle, and is attached to the body and greater cornu of tlie hyoid bone and to aponeurotic expansion of the opposite side, so that the interval between the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles is occupied by this expansion. The posterior belly passes over the sheath of the carotid vessels, the hypo-glossal and spinal accessory nerves, and l)eneath the sterno-mastoid and trachelo-mastoid muscles. The occipital artery passes upward and backward along the lower border of the posterior belly. The anterior belly may be absent and the posterior belly may be double. At times accessory slips join the posterior belly from the styloid process or pharynx. Nerve Supply.—The posterior belly of the digastric muscle is supplied by a branch from the facial nerve; the anterior belly, by the mylo-hyoid, a branch of the inferior dental nerve. Blood Supply.—From muscular branches of the facial, occipital, and poste- rior auricular arteries. Action.—It depresses the lower jaw and assists in opening the mouth. If the lower jaw be fixed, the two bellies acting together would raise the hyoid bone, as in deglutition. The stylo-hyoid muscle is slender, has about the same position as the poste-