THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. 525 anterior portion of the bodies of the two lateral A^entrieles and between the anterior cornua of those ventricles. The base of the triangle is directed downward and forward, and the apex backward, into the narrow interval between the anterior part of the body of the fornix below, and the corpus callosum above. The septum lucidum is attached above to the under surface of the body of the corpus callosum ; in front, to the concavity of the genu of the corpus callosum ; and below, to the rostrum of the corpus callosum and to the body and anterior crura of the fornix. It is composed of two laminse, between which is the cleft-like interval known a the fifth ventricle. The fifth or Sylvian ventricle is not provided with an outlet, but is a com- pletely inclosed space. Each of the lamihte of the septum lucidum, which bound this ventricle laterally, consists of an inner gray layer, a middle white layer, and an outer layer of ependyma w^hich is part of the ependyma that lines the lateral ventricles. The fifth ventricle differs from the other ventricles in its mode of development; it is a portion of the great longitudinal fissure which has become inclosed by the formation of the corpus callosum and fornix. Dissection.—With a pair of scissors slice away a horizontal section from the superior portion of the septum lucidum, when, with a little care, the laminae can be pushed apart and the fifth ventricle opened. Should the ventricle contain more than the usual quantity of fluid, it can be more readily seen than if it were in a normal state. Before reflecting the fornix examine the structures seen within the lateral ventricle, commencing wdth th*. corpora striata, which project into the anterior cornua. Corpus Striatum.—The corpora striata (anterior cereliral ganglia) are the anterior pair of basal ganglia. The portion seen within the anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle is the intra-ventricular portion, or caudate nucleus. It is so called in contradistinction to the larger extra-ventricular portion, or lenticular nucleus, which occupies the white substance of the hemisphere of the cerebrum. To expose both the lenticular nucleus and the caudate nucleus in one dissection it is necessary to make horizontal sections of the hemisphere ; these sections will be described further on. The Caudate Nucleus is a pear-shaped mass of gray matter having its broad extremity, or head, directed forward into the forepart of the body and the anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and its narrow extremitj^, or tail, directed outward and backward. It lies to the outer side of the optic thalamus, and is prolonged into the roof of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle as far as its anterior ex- tremity, where it terminates in the amygdaloid tubercle. Crossing the surface of the caudate nucleus are numerous small veins emptying into the vein of the