THE PHARYNX. 237 gin of the Eustachian orifice, will readily slip into the Eustachian tube when pushed backward again. From their orihces the Eustachian tubes are directed backward, outward, and slightl}' upward, opening into the tympanic cavity at its anterior wall. The inner portion of the Eustachian tube is cartilaginous on the upper and inner sides, and fibrous below. The outer portion of the Eustachian tube has bony walls, and begins in the receding angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temj)oral bone. The isthmus of the fauces, or posterior opening of the mouth, is situated im- mediately below the posterior nares and soft palate. Through the isthmus some of the structures of the mouth can be examined from behind. The pillars of the fauces, the tonsils, situated in the recesses of the -fances, and the base of the tongue are more satisfactorily seen through the isthmus of the fauces than through the buccal orifice. The base of the tongue holds a vertical position, and overhangs the epiglottis. Between the tongue and the epiglottis are the three glosso-epiglottidean folds and the two glosso-epiglottidean pouches. The superior aperture of the larynx is situated below the base of the tongue. It is a large, triangular-shaped opening, its wider portion being directed forward. It slopes obliquely downward and backward from the upper extremity of the epiglottis. It is bounded in front by the epiglottis, behind by the interarytenoid fold of mucous membrane, and on each side by the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and the tips of the arytenoid cartilages. On each side of its posterior portion there is a deep depression, the sinus pyriformis, in Avhich foreign bodies may lodge. The esophageal opening of the pharynx is the narrowest portion of the pharynx, and is located beliind the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Relations of the Pharynx.—In front of the pharynx are the posterior nares, the soft palate, the isthmus of the fauces, the base of the tongue, the hyoid bone, and the larynx. Behind it are the prevertebral fascia, the post-pharyngeal lymphatic gland, the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, and the bodies of the upper vertebrje. Laterally, its upper portion is in relation with the Eustachian tube, the inferior maxillary nerve, the styloid process of the temporal bone, the muscles arising from that process, the internal pterygoid muscles, the parotid gland, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypo-glossal, and sympathetic nerves, ascending pharyngeal, and internal carotid arteries, and in- ternal jugular vein ; its lower portion is in relation laterally Avith the carotid sheath and its contents, the lower part of the external carotid artery, the commencement of the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries, the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, the sterno-thyroid muscle, and the deep cervical chain of lymphatic glands. Above the pharynx is that portion of the base of the skull formed by the body of