522 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Dissection.—Next make a transverse section of the remaining portion of the body of the corpus callosum at about its middle, and dissect one half forward , and the other half backward. If carefully executed, this dissection exposes the fornix and the septum lucidum. The Fornix, the longitudinal commissure of the cerebrum, is a triangular mass of white matter situated beneath the corpus callosum, and is continuous posteriorly with the splenium of the corpus callosum. It overlies the velum interpositum, which separates it from the third ventricle and the optic thal- amus. It consists of a main portion, or body, and an anterior and a posterior crura. The body of the fornix is triangular in shape, the apex of the triangle being directed anteriorly. The fornix is adherent behind to the splenium of the. corpus callosum, and is attached above and in front to the septum lucidum, and above and behind to the corpus callosum ; below, it rests upon the velum interpos- itum, and lies above the third ventricle. The sides of the body of the fornix pro- ject into the lateral ventricles, overlapping the inner portion of the optic thalami and choroid plexuses. The fibers of the under surface of the fornix behind are so arranged as to give rise to the designation the lyre, which has been bestowed upon them. The anterior crura, or pillars of the fornix, are two cylindric bundles of nerve-fibers which are given off from the anterior extremity or apex of the body of the fornix, whence they diverge and descend in front of the optic thalami and the foramina of Monro and then through the gray matter in the sides of the third ven- tricle, to the base of the brain, where they form the white matter of the corpora albicantia, or mammillary eminences. Fibers pass from the corpora albicantia to the optic thalami; these fibers constitute the bundles of Vicq d'Azyr, and are probably not directly continuous with the fibers of the fornix. In their descent the anterior pillars are joined by the taeniae semicirculares and by fibers from the septum lucidum and peduncles of the pineal gland. Between the anterior crura and the anterior extremities of the optic thalami are the oval openings of com- munication between the lateral ventricles and the third ventricle, the foramina of Monro. The posterior crura, or pillars of the fornix, arise posteriorly from each side of the body of the fornix, whence they diverge and descend into the middle cornua of the lateral ventricles. Here each crus lies within the concavity of the curve described by the hippocampus major as far as the pes hippocampi. The lateral borders of the posterior crura of the fornix are known as the corpora fimbriata, or taeniae hippocampi. The septum lucidum is a triangular vertical partition situated between the