408 SURGICAL ANATOMY. and contains the head of the malleus and part of the incus, and leads into the mastoid antrum. The roof of the tympanum consists of a thin plate of l)one—tegmen tympani —^'hich separates the tyniiianum from the cranial cavity ; it forms part of the antero-superior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Destruction of this osseous lamina or extension through it of the inflammatory process in chronic otitis media may lead to meningeal or cerebral complications, such as extradural abscess, meningitis, abscess of the temporo-sphenoid lobe of the cerebrum, and cerebellar abscess. In children under one year of age the presence of the petro-squamosal suture in the tegmen tympani favors this complication. The floor is formed by a thin, bony plate situated between the tympanum and the jugular fossa. Destruction of this plate of bone by caries in otitis media may cause fatal hemorrhage or septic thrombosis of the internal jugular vein, embolism, and metastatic abscess. The anterior wall is quite narrow, and is deficient superiorly, inasmuch as the Eustachian tube opens into the tympanum in this situation about four milli- meters, or one-sixth of an inch, above the floor. Just above the entrance of the tube is the opening of the canal which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. Owing to tlie ])Osition of tlie tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube above the level of the floor of the tympanum, fluid which has entered the tympanum by way of the Eustachian tube, through snuffling water in surf-bathing or in using the nasal douche, can not all escape through the tube, and otitis media is likely to result. Below the orifice of the Eustachian tube the anterior wall is composed of a thin, bony lamina, situated between the tympanum and the carotid canal. Caries of this thin i)late of bone may occur in otitis media, and ulceration into the internal carotid artery with fatal hemorrhage may follow. The Eustachian tube is the anterior extension of the tympanic cavity which connects the middle ear with the naso-pharynx ; it passes inward, downward, and forward from the tympanum, is about thirty-five millimeters, or an inch and a half, in length, and in its several portions varies from two to five millimeters, or from one-twelfth to one-fifth of an inch, in diameter. It consists of an osseous and a cartilaginous portion, the former being about twelve millimeters, or one-half of an inch, long, and the latter about twenty-five millimeters, or one inch, long. The cartilagivons j^ortion is somewliat trumpet-shaped, being widest at the pharyngeal orifice. It is formed by a cartilaginous plate which is triangular in shape and folded upon itself, thus leaving on the inferior and external asjiect of the tube an intcryal wliich is filled with fibrous tissue (fascia sal])ingo-pliaryngea), and by a part of the tensor ])a]ati muscle called tlie dilafor tuJ>;r. (See also description of pluuynx.) The buntj portion, which is smaller than the carti-