THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. 517 touches the posterior portion of tlie corpus callosum ; the greater part of the body of the corpus callosum and its anterior extremity are separated for a considerable distance from the falx cerebri. The corpus callosum is slightly convex fi'oni before backward on the upper surface, is between three and four inches, or seven to ten centimeters, in length, and extends nearer to the anterior than to the posterior end of the cerebrum. It is wider behind, where it measures about one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, and is thicker at each end, especially at the posterior extremity, than in the middle. It forms the roof of the lateral ventricles, which are cavities located within the hemispheres of the cerebrum. On its dorsal surface, extending along its middle line, a linear depression exists, the raphe. On each side of the raphe, and running parallel with it, are two slightly elevated longitudinal bands, the striae longitudinales, or nerves of Lancisi. External to these are the faintly marked striae longitudinales laterales, or taeniae tectse, which, with the brain intact, underlie the convolutions of the corpus callosum, or gyri fornicati. The taenise tectse are separated bundles of a group of fibers known as the cingulum, which forms part of the callosal and hippocampal gyri. The fibers proper of the corpus callosum run transversely, as its name, the great transverse commissure, implies. The corpus callosum consists of a main portion or body, seen best on longitudinal section, and of two extremities, the anterior and the posterior. The anterior extremity, or genu, is formed by the bending downward and then backward of the corpus callosum ; from this bend it is continued to the base of the brain as the beak, or rostrum, which is the reflected portion of the genu, and is thin and narrow. Within the concavity of the genu is situated the septum luci- dum, which contains between its layers the fifth ventricle. The rostrum of the corpus callosum has previously been described with the base of the brain ; it is connected to the tuber cinereum by the lamina cinerea. It gives off two bands of white substance, which are continuations of the nerves of Lancisi and form the peduncles of the corpus callosum. These then diverge from each other and run backward and outward across the anterior perforated space to the tips of the tem- poral lobes, meeting the inner roots of the olfactory tracts. The fibers from the genu of the corj^us callosum pass outward and forward and then inward, into the prefrontal region, forming the forceps minor. The posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, or splenium, is formed by a bending of the corpus callosum downward and forward upon itself, thus making a free, thickened, rounded border. This border forms the upper boundary of the central part of the transverse fissure, and beneath it passes the process of the pia mater known as the velum interpositum. The splenium is connected anterioil}' with the fornix. The fibers of the splenium which curve outward and backward over the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle constitute the forceps major; some