481 THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. The Temporal or Temporo-sphenoid Lobe comprises that portion of the hiteral surface of the hemisphere of tlie cerebrum below tlie horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and a line representing its continuation backward, and in front of the lower part of the line connecting the preoccipital notch with the extremity of the lateral portion of the parieto-occipital fissure. Upon the inferior surface of the cerebral hemisphere it lies immediately behind the main portion of the fissure of Sylvius; it is not separated on this surface from the occipital lobe. A line drawn from the preoccipital notch to the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus marks the line of union of the temporo-sphenoid and occipital lobes (Brooks). The Island of Reil, or the fifth lobe of the cerebrum, is described with the fissure of Sylvius. The arrangement of the primary fissures and the boundaries of the lobes of the cerebral hemispheres having been given, the description of the secondary fissures and convolutions naturally follows. Secondary convolutions frequently bridge these secondary fissures, making it difficult to trace them. The Frontal Lobe is situated in the angle between the vertical and the liorizontal plates of the frontal bone, and extends backward beyond the coronal suture. It is that portion of the hemisphere in front of the fissure of Rolando, and above the anterior part of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Like the cerebral hemisphere, it has three surfaces : a lateral or convex, an inferior or basilar, and an inner or mesial. Upon the lateral surface are three secondary fissures: the superior and the inferior frontal, the direction of which is horizontal, and the precentral or transverse, whose direction is vertical. The ascending and the anterior limbs of the fissure of Sylvius are also in relation with it. The superior and inferior frontal fissures run parallel with the longitudinal, and the precentral follows a course nearly parallel with that of the lower half of the fissure of Rolando. The superior frontal fissure commences a short distance in front of the fissure of Rolando, and runs forward and downward parallel with the longitudinal fissure, the gyrus included between the longitudinal fissure and superior frontal fissure being the first or superior frontal convolution. The inferior frontal fissure usually commences in the precentral fissure, but sometimes in front of it, and runs forward and downward about midway between the superior frontal fissure and the lower border of the frontal lobe. Between the superior and the inferior frontal fissure lies the middle or second frontal convolu- tion, and between the infexior frontal fissure and the lower margin of the lobe the inferior frontal convolution is situated. The precentral fissure lies in front of and parallel with the fissure of 11-31