114 SURGICAL ANATOMY. laiy gland, touching the other sublingual gland in the mesial plane. It measures about one and one-half inches in its long diameter, and weighs about one dram. ducts—dudi Rivini—are from ten to twenty in numljcr, and open separately on the ridge at each side of the lingual frenum, with the exception of two or more which join to form the dud of Bartholin, which opens either near or into Wharton's duct. Blood Supply.—From the lingual and submental arteries. Nerve Supply.—From the gustatory, chorda tympani, and sympathetic nerves. Obstruction of the salivary ducts.—The duct of the submaxillary gland may become obstructed by a calculus, and give rise to a hard and painful swelling over the site of the duct, perceptible through the submaxillary triangle and through the floor of the mouth. Obstruction and dilatation of one of the several ducts opening at the side of the lingual frenum will occasion a cystic swelling known as ranula; this condition may also be due to an obstructed mucous follicle. Dissection.—Detach the hyo-glossus muscle from the hyoid bone and lift it up, when the structures in relation with the deep surface may be seen ; these are the horizontal portion, and the commencement of the ascending portion, of the lingual artery, part of the genio-liyo-glossus muscle, the lingualis muscle, the origin of the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The horizontal or second portion of the lingual artery rests upon the middle constrictor of tlie pharynx and the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, below the level of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and is covered by the tendon of the digastric, the stylo- hyoid, and the hyo-glossus muscle. From this portion the dorsalis linguse artery is given off, which ascends to the base of the tongue to supply the mucous membrane back of the circumvallate papillae, the tonsil, and the soft palate. It anastomoses with the dorsalis linguse of the opposite side, but this anastomosis is so fine that but slight bleeding follows severance of the tongue accurately in the median line. The ascending or third portion of the lingual artery commences beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. It rests upon the genio-hyo-glossus, and passes tortuously between the genio-hyo-glossus and the lingualis muscle to the tip of the tongue, being covered only by the mucous membrane of the under surface of this organ. This portion gives off the sublingual artery and contiiuies as the ranine. The ranine artery, the continuation of the lingual artery, passes to the tip of the tongue along the outer side of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, running between it and the lingualis muscle, and is accompanied by the ranine vein and the ter- minal portion of the gustatory nerve. Near the tip of the tongue it anastomoses