599 MALE PERINEUM. and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The inner boundary is formed by the levator ani and coccygeus muscles, covered by the anal fascia. The external Ijoundary is composed of the obturator fascia, the obturator internus muscle, and the ischium. The contents of the ischio-rectal fossa are fat, inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, the origins of the superficial perineal artery and the perineal nerve, and the perineal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. In the outer wall are the internal pudic vessels and pudic nerve, and dorsal nerve of the penis, and beneath the inner wall is the rectum. The internal pudic vessels, pudic nerve, and dorsal nerve of the penis are inclosed in a sheath (the canal of Alcock), formed by the obturator fascia, and are about an inch and a half, or four centimeters, above the lower border of the tuberosity of the ischium. The external or inferior hemorrlioldal artery and nerve, which are branches of the internal pudic artery and pudic nerve respectively, cross the space obliquely from the posterior portion of its outer Avall. They divide into a number of branches which supply the lower part of the rectum, the levator ani, and the sphincter ani muscle, the superficial fascia, and the skin. The external or inferior hemorrhoidal arteries anastomose with the same vessels of the opposite side and with branches of the middle and superior hemorrhoidal arteries. The radicles of the inferior hemorrhoidal veins often become varicose, and form hemorrhoids, or piles. At the posterior border of the space the perineal branch of the fourth sacral nerve, which pierces the coccygeus muscle to supply the external sphincter ani, and some branches of the small sciatic nerve will be seen. The superficial perineal artery and the superficial perineal nerves run through the anterior and outer part of the space. The Anal or Ischio-rectal Fascia covers and is in close relation with the superficial surface of the levator ani and coccygeus muscles. Externally, it springs from the obturator fascia just below the origin of the levator ani muscle ; internally, it is continuous with the deep fascia covering the lateral portion of the external sphincter ani muscle; anteriorly, it is continuous with the deep layer of the triangular ligament, and at the anterior margin of the levator ani with the recto- vesical fascia; and posteriorly it blends with the deep fascia on the deep surface of the gluteus maximus muscle. Ischio-rectal abscess.—The dependent position and the imperfect blood supply of the ischio-rectal fossae permit the rather frec[uent occurrence of abscess in the soft fat of these fossae. These abscesses should be opened early, as they soon distend the fossa and open in one of the two directions in which the pus meets with least resistance : namely, through the skin or into the rectum. An ischio-rectal abscess opening both into the rectum and through the skin forms a complete fistula in ano. When it opens only into the rectum, it forms an incom-