THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN: 455 and the pons liave a different appearance from the rest of the membrane, and present a dense fibrous structure which contains but few vessels. Nerve Supply.—The pia mater is suppHed with nerves by branches from the sympathetic, trifacial, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. THE BRAIN. Dissection.—If the arachnoid and the pia mater have been allowed to remain in place thus far, they should now be removed, with the exception of that portion of the pia mater which is prolonged inward between the splenium of the corpus collosum above and the pineal gland and the corpora quadrigemina below, to form the velum interpositum which is placed between the corpus callosum and fornix above and the optic thalami, pineal gland, and corpora quadrigemina below. The removal of these membranes exposes the surface of the brain ; and in dissecting them from the base of the brain care should be taken not to detach any of the cranial nerves. ^ Definition and Weight.—The brain, or encephalon, is the intracranial mass of nervous matter, or that portion of the cerebro-spinal axis which is contained within the cavity of the cranium. Its average weight in the adult male is forty- nine and one-half ounces, and in the female forty-four ounces. Divisions.—The brain is composed of four main portions : The cerebrum (large brain); the cerebellum (small brain), w'hich is second in size; the pons Varolii, which is third in size ; and the medulla oblongata, the smallest, yet physi- ologically the most important. Position of the Pons.—Of these four portions the pons Varolii is the center around which the three remaining portions are not only grouped, but to which they are connected in the following manner: To the cerebrum by the crura cerebri, the cerebellum by the crura cerebelli (middle peduncles of the cerebel- lum), and the medulla oblongata by the anterior pyramids and part of the lateral tracts. The pons rests upon the posterior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone and the upper part of the basilar process of the occipital bone. Position of the Cerebrum.—The cerebrum occupies all the upper part of the cranial cavity, concealing from view the other portions of the brain when one looks from above, and rests upon the floor of the anterior and middle fossse of the skull, and the tentorium cerebelli. The tentorium cerebelli, in addition to supporting the cerebrum, separates it from the cerebellum and protects the latter from pressure by the cerebrum. Position of the Cerebellum.—The cerebellum occupies the space between the tentorium cerebelli and the floor of the posterior cranial fossa.