DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 57 of the deep cervical fascia Avhich forms the roof of the occipital triangle, the fat and areolar tissue occupying the triangle should be dissected out, thus exposing its contents and the posterior process of the deep cervical fascia which covers the muscles forming its floor. The occipital triangle.—The occipital triangle is bounded in front by the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle; behind, by the trapezius muscle ; below, by the pos- terior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. Its roof is formed by the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, covered by the platysma myoides muscle, superficial fascia, and skin. When the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles do not meet at the apex of the triangle, a small portion of the occipital artery may be seen in the interval between the splenius and trapezius muscles. Crossing the triangle obliquely downward and backward from beneath vhe sterno-mastoid muscle are the spinal accessory nerve and the branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves, which enter the lower part of the trapezius muscle to supply it. Emerging from beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle are the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, which leave the triangle by piercing its roof. Occasionally the middle sterno-mastoid artery terminates in this triangle. Running along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle is a chain of lym- phatic glands ; this is known as the post-cervical chain, and is of special importance in the diagnosis of early secondary syphilis. Crossing the lower part of the triangle is the transversalis colli artery and its companion vein. The superficial cervical artery, one of the terminal branches of the transversalis colli, usually occupies the posterior inferior angle of this space ; it runs upward, parallel with the anterior border of the trapezius muscle, but is, in some instances, concealed by the anterior border of the trapezius muscle. At the anterior infei'ior angle of the triangle the upper part of the brachial plexus may be seen. Branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves cross the floor of the triangle to supply the levator anguli scapulse muscle. The muscles forming the floor of the occipital triangle are, from above down- ward, the splenius capitis, the levator anguli scapulae, the scalenus medius, and the scalenus posticus muscle, which can not be seen, however, until the posterior process of the deep cervical fascia is removed. The spinal accessory nerve.—This nerve is the most important of the contents of the occipital triangle. It is the eleventh cranial nerve, and consists of two parts—the accessory, from the medulla oblongata, and the spinal, from the cervical portion of the spinal cord as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve. The spinal portion passes upward through the spinal canal between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and enters the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum to join the accessory portion. The two por-