532 SURGICAL ANATOMY. shape, like the fornix ; it lies beneath the fornix and the corpus callosum. It covers the quadrigeminal bodies, the pineal body, the third ventricle, and part of the optic thalami. Its borders contain the choroid plexuses of the lateral ven- tricles, while in its under surface are situated the two choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The latter plexuses are continuous with the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles just behind the foramina of Monro. Running one on each side of the median line of the velum interpositum, between its two layers, are the two veins of Galen, formed by the union of the veins of the corpora striata and the choroid veins, in addition to small twigs from surrounding structures. They unite posteriorly to form a single trunk, which joins tlie inferior longitudinal sinus to form the straight sinus at the junction of the inferior margin of the falx cerebri with the anterior margin of the teiitorium cerebelli. Dissection.—Raise the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses and turn them backward. Especial care is necessary in raising the posterior part of the velum interpositum so as not to raise the pineal gland with it, as the gland is closely invested by the lower layer of i)ia mater entering the velum. This dissec- tion exposes the third ventricle, the three commissures of that ventricle, the anterior crura of the fornix, the optic thalami, the pineal body and its peduncles, and the quadrigeminal body. In making the dissection it frequently happens that the middle commissure of the third ventricle is broken, and the dissector, if not familiar with this fact, might conclude tliat it was absent in the brain under exam- ination. Fissure of Bichat.—Before describing the parts exposed by the removal of the velum inter})ositum, the great transverse fissure of the brain, or fissure of Bichat, which is now opened uj) throughout, should be carefully observed. To do this to the best advantage it is necessary to remove the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses of the lateral and third ventricles with the adherent e})i- thelium. The central horizontal or transverse j)ortion of this fissure, through which the velum interpositum passes, is the continuation of the interspace between the cerebrum and the cerebellum seen in the undissected brain with the pia mater removed. This central portion is continuous with tlu^ lateral ])ortions, or hippo- campal fissures, which are seen in the dissection of the middle cornua of the lateral ventricles, thus making the fissure, as a whole, horseshoe shaped. The Third Ventricle is a narrow, oblong cavity situated in the jniddle line of the cerebrum, between the ojitic thalami and the ])eduncles of the ])ineal body, and reaching to the base of the brain. It is wider and shallower behind than in front. It is bounded ahore by the velum interpositum, altliough its immediate roof is formed by a thin epithelial layer wliieli is contiiuious with the lining epitlielium or ependyma of the ventricle ; on the .s/'/cs-, by the optic thalami and the peduncles