THE EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. 637 arch. The bulbous and membranous portions are more commonly involved, urine being extravasated into one or both of the perineal interspaces. The mucous membrane of the urethra contains numerous simple follicular invaginations, called glands of Littre or lacunas. One lacuna, situated in the dorsal wall of the urethra an inch, or two and one-half centimeters, from the external meatus, is larger than the others, is termed the lacuna magna, and may arrest the point of a small instrument passed into the urethra. The orifices of the ducts of Cowper's glands are in the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra about one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, anterior to the superficial layer of the triangular ligament. The Diseases of the Penis are many,*and all are accompanied by more or less morbid worry incidental to diseases of the genital apparatus. Venereal warts are frequently found upon the inner layer of the prepuce close to the corona, often resembling a cock's comb in form. Chancres are generally located upon the margin or inner surface of the prepuce or corona glandis, where they are sometimes unnoticed. Chancroids are similarly situated, but tend to spread rapidly, forming at times wide, irregular areas of ulceration which may destroy much of the prepuce and glans. They are then said to be phagedenic. These ulcers occasionally cause intense suffering and permanent deformity of the organ. Gonorrhea is a specific urethritis accompanied by a profuse purulent dis- charge. The mucous membrane and submucous tissue of the urethra are swollen and infiltrated and less elastic than normallj^; consequently, rupture of the submucous tissue occurs during erection of the penis. The cicatricial tissue which develops contracts subsequently and forms a stricture. If the inflammation be sufficiently active, small areas of the mucous membrane may be ulcerated, eventually leaving a contracting scar and stricture which narrows the caliber of the canal. The inflammatory thickening and cicatricial contraction may be so great as to cause its permanent narrowing, thus obstructing the flow of urine and causing a damming-back in the bladder, ureters, and renal pelves. The inflammation may extend into the bladder, causing cystitis; into the prostatic ducts, giving rise to prostatitis; through the ejaculatory ducts to the seminal vesicles, causing vesiculitis ; or from the ejaculatory ducts it may pass along one or both vasa deferentia to the epididymis and testicle, causing acute epididymitis and acute orchitis. Acute epididymitis is a far more ''■ommon complication of gonorrhea than orchitis. Chordee is a painful incident of gonorrhea, in which erection of the corpora cavernosa makes traction upon the underlying tender, swollen, and inflamed spongy body which is at the time less capable of elongation than normally, because