THE MOUTH. 225 carotid, the tonsillar, and ascending palatine branches of the facial artery, the dorsalis linguse branch of the lingual artery, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. Nerve Supply.—From the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and branches of Meckel's ganglion. The veins of the tonsils empty into the tonsillar plexus, which lies on the outer surface of the gland and is drained by tlie pharyngeal veins. The lymphatics of the tonsil, which are numerous, empty into the lymphatic glands near the angle of the lower jaw, and into the superior deep cervical lym- phatic glands. Relations.—Externally, the tonsil is in relation with the superior con- strictor muscle of the pharynx and the pharyngeal aponeurosis, which separate it from the internal carotid and the ascending pharyngeal artery ; internally, with the mucous membrane of the mouth and pharynx. Tonsillitis.—The tonsils are frequently afiected by inflammation. In follic- ular tonsillitis the crypts especially are involved, and their secretion is inspissated, forming yellowish-white plugs which resemble diphtheric false membrane, and give the throat the appearance of "ulcerated sore throat." In phlegmonous or purulent tonsillitis (quinsy), when the affection is bilateral, the tonsils may almost meet in the median line. These tonsillar abscesses should be incised with a bis- toury, guarded to avoid injuring the tongue. The knife should be directed back- ward and inward, and the incision be made toward the median line to avoid injuring the internal carotid firtery, wdiich lies just external to the gland. Hypertrophied tonsils can not be felt externally below the angles of the lower jaw, for the reason that the pharyngeal aponeurosis and the superior constrictor muscles of the pharynx prevent the tonsils from projecting outward. The masses present in these locations are enlarged lymphatic glands which receive lymphatic vessels from the tonsils. Hypertrophied tonsils project beyond the pillars of the fauces, and cause considerable annoyance through their inter- ference with respiration and with the resonance of the voice. Hypertrophied tonsils should be amputated with a tonsillotome, or removed by dissection. Exaggerated prominence of the anterior pillars of the fauces may render these operations quite difficult. The relation which the tonsil bears to the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries should be borne in mind in either of these operations. The ascending pharyngeal artery runs upon the external surface of the supe- rior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, opposite the tonsil, and in operations upon the tonsil or in wounds of that organ is in more danger of being injured than is the internal carotid artery, which is placed further back. 11—15