537 THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. of the pineal body ; in front, by the anterior commissure and the anterior pillars of the fornix ; and behind, by the posterior commissure, the orifice of the aqueduct of Sylvius, and the pia mater, passing from the upper surface of the pineal body to the inferior layer of the velum interpositum. Its floor is formed by the Ijodies which fill the interpeduncular space of the base of the brain and the superior sur- face of the crura cerebri at their origin from the pons Varolii. The structures in the interpeduncular space are named, from before backward, the lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereum, the infundibulum, the corpora albicantia, and the posterior perforated space. Commissures.—Stretching across the ventricle are the anterior, middle, and posterior commissures. Tlie anterior commissure is situated in front of the ante- rior crura of' the fornix. It is composed of white matter and connects the two temporal lobes of the cerebrum. The middle commissure is composed almost entirely of gray matter, is the largest, and is about one-half an inch, or twelve millimeters, in width. It connects the optic thalami, and, as has been observed, is frequently torn across in the dissection of the brain. The posterior commissure, the smallest of the three, is sittiated in front of and beneath the pineal body, and above the anterior opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. It is composed of white matter, connects the optic thalami, and probably contains decussating fibers derived from various sources. The Foramina of Monro are the orifices of communication betAveen the lateral ventricles and the third ventricle. Each foramen is bounded in front by the corresponding anterior crus of the fornix, behind by the optic thalamus and choroid plexus, above by the anterior crus of the fornix, and below by the epen- dyma reflected from the optic thalamus to the anterior crus of the fornix. The two foramina have a common orifice in the third ven tricle, thus forming a Y-shaped passage, called the foramen commune anterius, through Avhich cerebro-spinal fluid in one lateral ventricle may enter the other lateral ventricle. Aqueduct of Sylvius.—At the posterior extremity of the third ventricle, and beneath the posterior commissure, is seen the anterior orifice of the aqueduct of Sylvius, or iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. This is a narrow passageway about tln-ee-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, in length, and passes beneath the quadrigeminal body to establish a communication between the third and fourth ventricles. It is lined with ependyma which is continuous with, and similar to, tliat lining the ventricles which it connects. Its roo/ is formed by the lamina quadrigemina, a plate of gray matter which supports the corpora quadrigemina. Its floor is formed by the tegmental portions of the crura cerebri. The gray matter in its floor contains the nuclei which give origin to the third and fourth cranial nerves.