61 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. tion of ligation of the third portion of the subclavian artery, the upper trunk of the plexus may be mistaken for the artery, and the ligature passed around it. This trunk is, therefore, a very useful guide in locating the artery, and should always be kept in mind. A few lymphatic glands, which are continuous with the axillary lymphatics, are found in this space. These glands should always be removed in the radical operation for removal of carcinoma of the mammary gland. The triangle is also crossed by the supra-scapular and posterior thoracic nerves and the nerve to the subclavius muscle. The floor of the triangle is formed by the scalenus medius and posticus muscles, the first rib, and the upper digitation of the serratus magnus muscle. The inferior carotid triangle is bounded in front by the median line of the neck ; behind, by the anterior border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle; and above, by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The roof is formed by the skin, the superficial fascia, which contains the platysma myoides muscle, and the descending branch of the superficial cervical nerve, and by the superficial layer of the deep fascia. The outer margins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, and the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle cover the more important con- tents of the triangle, and should be drawn aside before dissecting the deeper struc- tures. Contents of the Triangle.—The common carotid artery (not strictly in the triangle, as the vessels lie under the margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, but so closely related to the contents of the triangle that mention of it here is proper), the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, all three inclosed in a common sheath, in front of which are filaments of nerves derived from the loop of com- munication between the descendens hypoglossi, a branch of the hypo-glossal, and the communicantes hypoglossi nerves, which are deep branches of the cervical plexus; behind the sheath of the vessels are the sympathetic nerve and its cardiac branches. Upon the inner side of the sheath of the vessels are the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, the trachea, the larynx, the esophagus, the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve (motor nerve of the larynx), which occupies the groove between the trachea and the esophagus, and the terminal portion of the deep chain of cervical lymphatic glands. To the outer side of the sheath of the vessels, running over the scalenus anticus muscle, is the phrenic nerve. The inferior thyroid artery, a branch of the thyroid axis, passes upward and inward through this space to the outer side of and then behind the sheath of the vessels. Situated deeply in the interval between the longus colli and the scalenus anticus muscle, and behind the sheath of the vessels, are the vertebral artery and its accompan^^ing vein. In this triangle the relation between the internal jugular vein and the common carotid artery differs upon the two sides of the neck; upon the right side the vein