125 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. would add to the difficulty and danger of the low operation. The thyroid gland is closely attached by areolar tissue to the sides of the trachea and the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. During deglutition it rises and falls with the larynx—a fact of the utmost value in the differential diagnosis between cervical tumors and enlargement of this gland. It varies in size in different individuals and at differ- ent periods of life, being relatively larger in children and in females. It often enlarges during menstruation, owing to increased distention of the blood vessels. The right lobe is larger than the left. In old age the gland decreases in size, becomes firmer, and at times contains calcareous substances. When enlarged, it may displace and compress the trachea, especially if the enlargement take place rapidly, the body of the gland being held down by the sterno-thyroid and omo- hyoid muscles ; or it may displace the great vessels of the neck laterally, so that the common carotid artery may be felt pulsating at the outer border of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Venous engorgement may also ensue, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve may suffer from the pressure of an enlarged thyroid gland. Bonnett has practised subcutaneous section of the muscles in some cases of dyspnea caused by a rapidly growing bronchocele (enlarged thyroid gland). Sir Duncan Gibb, on the other hand, because of the fact that the isthmus, or middle lobe, binds together the enlarging lateral lobes of a bronchocele, proposed to divide the isthmus in cases wdiere dyspnea resulted. He performed this operation several times, great relief to the patient ensuing. As the lateral borders of the thyroid gland are in contact with the sheath of the common carotid artery, it follows that the gland, when enlarged, may readily receive transmitted pulsations from that vessel. An error is occasion- ally made by mistaking a pulsating goiter for aneurysm of the common carotid artery. The median lobe of the thyroid gland is developed as a downgrowth of the epithelium from the posterior part of the tongue ; the site from which this starts is indicated in the adult by the foramen caecum of the tongue. The canal thus formed is known as the thyro-glossal duct, or canal of His. Its walls normally disappear, but remains of them are frequently found in the pyramidal process of the thyroid gland. Accessory thyroid glands, occurring near the median line of the neck, in the vicinity of the hyoid bone, and elsewhere in the neck, are regarded as being formed by division of the pyramidal process. Furthermore, certain cystic tumors at the base of the tongue and in the median line of the neck, as well as the rare cases of median cervical fistula, result from incomplete obliteration of the thyro-glossal duct. The deep surface of the thyroid gland being in relation with the lower part of the pharynx and the upper part of the esophagus, the difficulty in swallowing often observed in bronchocele is explained by the direct pressure, and the interference