THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 445 base making pressure, the sheath of the optic nerve becomes distended, causing a congestion of the veins of the optic disc (choked disc), an important diagnostic sign. Pressure, however, does not suffice to explain all cases of "choked disc" ; in many cases there is distinct inflammation of the optic papilla, so that the term papillitis would be preferable. The Lymphatics of the brain open into the subarachnoid space. The Pacchionian Bodies are enlargements of the normal villi of the arach- noid ; they project from the surface of that membrane, and may perforate the overlying dura mater and cause absorption of the bone in their vicinity. Dissection.—The next step in the dissection consists in removing the arach- noid from the base of the brain. The arteries Altering the cranial cavity to supply the brain and the formation of the arterial circle of Willis are then to be carefully examined. THE ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. The Circle of Willis, which lies in the pia mater and projects into the sub- arachnoid space, is formed by branches of the internal carotid and basilar arteries. It forms a heptagonal iigure, although it is usually not exactly symmetric. This arrangement serves to equalize the flow of blood derived from the two internal carotid arteries and the basilar artery. Without this or some similar arrange- ment ligation of the common carotid, internal carotid, or vertebral artery would probably always result in softening of the brain. This circle is formed by the two posterior cerebral arteries, which are the terminal divisions of the basilar, the tivo internal carotid arteries, the tivo posterior communicating brandies of the internal carotid arteries, which connect the latter with the posterior cerebral arteries, the two anterior cerebral arteries (branches of the internal carotid arteries), and the anterior communicating artery, a transverse branch which connects the ante- rior cerebral arteries. This circle is in relation with the several structures which are situated in the interpeduncular space, and form the floor of the third ventricle. The arteries which enter the cranial cavity for the supply of the brain are the two internal carotid and the two vertebral. The Internal Carotid Artery, one of the two terminal branches of the common carotid, enters the cranial cavity by way of the carotid canal, pierces the cartilage which fills the middle lacerated foramen, and ascends by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. Upon the inner aspect of the anterior clinoid process it pierces the dura mater, gives off the ophthalmic artery, and passes betAveen the optic and oculo-motor nerves. Having reached the anterior perforated space at the inner extremity of the