62 SURGICAL ANATOMY. is a little to the outer side of the artery, the two vessels being in the lower part of the triangle, separated by a narrow interval, while on the left side it lies closer to the firtery and somewhat overlaps it. Tlie fl(j(yr of the triangle is formed by the longus colli and scalenus anticus muscles. The superior carotid triangle is bounded above by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle ; behind, by the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and below, by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle ; its apex is directed toward the median line of the neck. Its roof is formed by the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma myoides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia. Contents of the Superior Carotid Triangle.—These are: The common carotid artery and its terminal divisions,—the external and the internal carotid,— the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve; these are all inclosed in a common sheath, the vein lying to the outer side of the artery and the nerve between, and on a plane posterior to both, resembling the ramrod in a double-barreled gun. The common carotid artery usually divides into the external and internal carotid arteries, on a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; division may, however, fake place below or above this point. In this triangle the external carotid artery gives off the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital, and the ascending pharyngeal artery, all of which, excepting the occipital, are accompanied by their corresponding veins on tlieir way to empty into the internal jugular vein. Passing downward in front of the carotid sheath is the descendens hypoglossi nerve, and behind the sheath, the sympathetic nerve. To the outer side of the sheath, above, is the sjjinal accessor}' nerve, which pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle; to the inner side of the sheath is the superior laryngeal nerve, a branch of the pneumogastric, accompanied by the superior laryngeal artery, a branch of the superior thyroid artery. Both the superior laryngeal artery and the internal laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve enter the larynx through the thyro-hyoid mem- brane. To the inner side of the sheath of the vessels, and a little lower, the superior thyroid artery and the external laryngeal nerve, a branch of the superior laryngeal nerve, are seen passing beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle. The hypo- glossal nerve is seen in the upper part of the triangle, curving around the occipital artery at its origin from the external carotid, and crossing over the external and internal carotid arteries. Upon the inner side of the triangle are the upper part of the larynx and the lower portion of the pharynx. In the deep part of the triangle, to the inner side of the sheath of the vessels, are seen the pharynx, the esophagus, and the deep chain of the cervical lymphatic glands, the terminal portion of which has been observed when dissecting the inferior carotid triangle.