500 SURGICAL ANATOMY. and a portion of one of the ribs passed into liis left nostril and penetrated the cranial cavity, fracturing the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, tearing through the dura mater, and finally entering the frontal lobe. A brain abscess developed —so considered at the time and afterward proved by autopsy. The collection occupied the left prefrontal lobe, and at no time in the course of the disease were there any localizing symptoms. The function over which this region of the brain is believed to preside is that of the higher mental faculties, and in disease or injury of this region, particularly upon the left side, there is very apt to be more or less hebetude, dullness of intellect, and lack of self-control. Motor Centers.—The motor area embraces the centers which preside over the movements of the opposite side of the body, and is conveniently divided into thirds—an upper, a middle, and a lower. The upper third includes the centei's which control the movements of the muscles of the lower extremity ; the middle third, the centers which control the movements of the muscles of the upper extremity ; and the lower third, the centers which control the movements of the muscles of the face, the mouth, and the tongue. It would seem from recent investigation that the centers for tactile sensation are located in the same area as that occupied by the motor centers, for some loss of tactile sense may accompany motor paralysis ; hence the centers about to be described are at times referred to as the sensori-motor areas. There is some evidence in favor of locating the centers for muscular sense in the region just posterior to the motor area, in the neighbor- hood of the great longitudinal fissure. The following is a detailed description of the location of the individual centers of the motor and sensory areas (Ferrier): The centers which control the movements of the opposite leg and foot, such as are concerned, for example, in walking, are situated in the anterior part of the supe- rior parietal convolution, at its junction with the ascending parietal, in the paracentral lobule and part of the quadrate lobule. The upper part of the ascending frontal convolution with the neighboring part of the base of the superior frontal convolution include the centers which control the various complex move- ments of the arms and legs, such as climbing, swimming, etc. The ])Osterior third of the superior frontal convolution anterior to the junction of its base with the ascending frontal includes the centers for the forward extension of the arm and hand, as in reaching forth the hand to touch something in front. The upper part of the middle tliii'd of the ascending frontal convolution includes the centers for those movements of the hand and forearm which call into action the ])iceps, as supination of the hand and fiexion of the forearm. The ascending frontal conA'olution, at about the junction of its middle and lower thirds, includes the centers which control the action of the elevators and depressors of the angle of the mouth.