THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 475 between the upper surface of the latter and the upper border of the hemisphere, and terminates upon the external surface of the hemisphere near this border and almost opposite the posterior end of the corpus callosum. This is the calloso- marginal fissure. The fissure of Rolando, or central fissure, is the most important of the three primary fissures of the brain, both from the surgical and descriptive standpoints. It runs through the motor area of the cortex of the cerebrum, upon which so many operations have been performed in recent years. It commences at the upper border of the hemisphere of the cerebrum just external to the longitudinal fissure and immediately in front of the terminal part of the calloso-marginal fissure. From here it runs obliquely downward and forward over the outer surface of the hemisphere at an angle with the anterior part of the longitudinal fissure of about 71.5 degrees, terminating a slight distance above the horizontal limb and about one inch, or twenty-five millimeters, behind the ascending limb of the fissure of Sylvius. The calloso-marginal fissure is very rarely bridged over by a secondary convolution, and, therefore, there should be no difficulty in locating it. The fissure of Rolando presents two more or less distinct bends, called its genua ; the superior genu, located at the junction of its middle third and upper third, has its convexity projecting backward ; the inferior genu is somewhat nearer the lower extremity of the fissure, and its convexity points forward. In proportion as the frontal lobes increase in size and the brain in general attains higher development the fissure runs more obliquely backward (Ecker). The parieto-occipital fissure, the smallest of the three primary fissures of the cerebrum, commences on the median surface of the hemisphere of the cerebrun) about one and one-half inches, or thirty-seven millimeters, behind the corpus callosum. It begins on the inferior occipito-temporal surface at the junction of the apex of the lingual lobule with the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus, and runs backward and upward to reach the upper border of the hemisphere; thence it runs outward and forward on the external or convex surface for about one inch, or twenty-five millimeters, and midway between the fissure of Rolando and the pos- terior extremity of the cerebrum. It is joined by a secondary fissure, the calcarine, the direction of which is nearly horizontal. The fissure may be said to consist of two portions, a median and a lateral, found respectively on the median and external surfaces of the cerebrum. The first occipital convolution arches around the end of the lateral portion of the fissure. The lateral portion of the parieto- occipital fissure is not always well marked, often appearing merely as a slight indentation upon the outer or convex surface of the hemisphere, while the median portion of the fissure is uniformly well developed. The Frontal Lobe, the largest of the cerebral lobes, includes that portion of