DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 23 discernible. Holden likens its central tendon to a rudimentary cervical rib, its posterior belly to a digitation of the serratus magnus muscle, and its anterior belly to a sterno-hyoid muscle. The subclavian artery extends from one-half of an inch to an inch above the clavicle, in the supra-clavicular fossa, close to the external border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, where, by moderate pressure directed downward, backward, and inward, it can readily be compressed against the first rib ; pressure directed other- wise would meet no bony resistance, and bleeding could not be controlled. The carotid arteries are readily found in the neck along the anterior or inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, being covered by its anterior border, particu- larly in the lower part of the neck. The common carotid artery divides opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. From this point at the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, a line drawn to the lobe of the ear indicates the. course of the external carotid artery. The position of the common carotid artery is represented by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the lower jaw and the mastoid process. The external jugular vein passes down the neck in a line drawn from the angle of the inferior maxilla to the middle of the clavicle. By compression of its lower end the vein may be made to stand out prominently. Occasionally ajugido- cephalic branch passes over the clavicle from the cephalic to the external jugular vein. The anterior jugular vein is usually found near the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The hyoid bone, directly behind the lower border of the chin in the ordinary attitude of the head, may be felt in its entirety through the skin. To its upper border are attached the base of the tongue and the genio-hyoid and mylo-hyoid muscles, which form the floor of the mouth. Below the body of the bone are the thyro-hyoid space and membrane, the center of which corresponds to the position of the epiglottis. The greater cornu of the bone is the landmark which locates the origin of the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. The origin of the superior thyroid artery is just below the level of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, that of the lingual artery is opposite to the greater cornu, and that of the facial artery is just above. The thyroid cartilage forms the anterior projection in the neck called " Adam's apple " ; it is larger in men than in women, so that there is increased length of the vocal cords, which have, therefore, in accordance with a well-estab- lished law of physics, a lower pitch, thus accounting for the deeper tones of the male. The entire cartilage is subcutaneous, its borders and corhua being easily traced by the finger. The lateral lobes of the thyroid gland can be indistinctly felt upon each side of the cartilage, and it is said the pulsations of the superior thyroid artery may readily be felt at the tip and front of the lateral lobe; this,