FEMALE PERINEUM. 667 and marks the position at Avliich a pudendal hernia appears. The narrow anterior end of the sac is the neck. At this end it is joined by the frayed end of the round ligament of the uterus and the suspensory ligament of the clitoris. The Superficial Intra-aponeurotic Spaces of the female perineum are situated between the deep layer of the superficial lascia and the inferior layer of the trian- gular ligament. They are two in number—one upon each side of the pudendal cleft. In the male there is one superficial perineal interspace, partly subdivided by an incomplete vertical septum. A collection of fluid in one of the superficial perineal interspaces will distend the labium majus and thence pass upward to the anterior abdominal wall, as would a similarly situated collection in the male. The contents of the superficial perineal interspace are : The sphincter vaginae, trans- versus perinei, and erector clitoridis muscles, the bulb of the vagina, the superficial perineal vessels, the anterior superficial perineal nerve, the transverse perineal vessels and nerve, and the dorsal artery, vein, and nerve of the clitoris. In the female perineum, as in the male, there is a muscular triangle on each side formed by the sphincter vaginae, erector clitoridis, and transversus perinei muscles. Dissection.—Reflect the deep layer of the superficial fascia from within out- ward, to expose the structures situated in the superficial perineal interspace. The Superficial Perineal Artery, larger in the female than in the male, is a branch of the internal pudic. It pierces the deep layer of the superficial fascia at its junction with the base of the triangular ligament, enters the superficial perineal interspace, and passes between the erector clitoridis and sphincter vagina3 muscles, supplying the contiguous parts. It anastomoses with the external pudic arteries, which are branches of the common femoral artery. The corresponding veins accompany the arter}^ and empty into the internal pudic vein. The Transverse Perineal Artery is a branch of the superficial perineal or of the internal pudic, and passes transversely inward, over or under the transverse perineal muscle to the perineal body, anastomosing with the transverse perineal artery of the opposite side and with neighboring vessels. Venae comites accompany the artery and empty into the internal pudic vein. The Artery of the Bulb of the Vagina (bulbo-cavernosus) is a branch of the internal pudic, corresponding to the artery of the bulb of the penis; it passes transversely inward to terminate in the bulb. The veins accompanying the artery empty into the internal pudic vein. The Superficial Perineal Nerves and the Inferior Pudendal Nerve are similar to the corresponding nerves in the male in origin and distribution. The Sphincter Vaginae Muscle {bulbo-cavernosus), th^ representative of the accelerator urinas in the male, arises from the perineal body. Like the accelerator