THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 425 The capsular ligaments surround the articulations between the malleus and incus, and the incus and stapes. The Muscles of the Tympanum are the stapedius and the tensor tympani. The stapedius muscle takes its origin from the interior of the pyramid ; its tendon passes through an aperture in the apex of the pyramid, and is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the stapedius muscle is derived from a branch of the facial nerve. Action.—It draws the head of the stapes backward, thus pressing the posterior part of the base of that bone against the border of the oval window, and regulating the pressure in the vestibular contents or perilymph and endo- lymph. The tensor tympani muscle is larger than the stapedius muscle, and is situ- ated in a bony canal which lies parallel with the Eustachian tube. It arises from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, the adjacent surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and the walls of the canal in which it lies. The tendon of the muscle winds around the end of the processus cochleariformis, passes outward in the tympanum, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus near its root. Nerve Supply.—The nerve supply of the tensor tympani muscle is derived through a In'anch from the otic ganglion, from the motor root of the trifacial or fifth cranial nerve. Action.—It draws the malleus inward, thus tightening and steadying the membrana tympani and compressing the perilymph of the internal ear. Ab- normal action of this muscle is one of the causes of snapping, buzzing, or ringing sounds in the ears. Blood Supply of the Middle Ear.—The blood supply of the middle ear is derived from the tympanic branches of the internal maxillary and internal carotid arteries, stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery, the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery, and a branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery which passes up the Eustachian tube. The veins of the middle ear empty into the temporo-maxillary vein, the supe- rior petrosal sinus, the lateral sinus, the internal jugular vein, and the pharyngeal veins; numerous small venous channels pass through the tegmen tympani, com- municating with the veins of the dura mater. These veins afford paths by which inflammatory processes may extend from the tympanum to the venous sinu^ses, internal jugular vein, meninges, and brain. The Lymphatics of the Middle Ear terminate in the posterior auricular and parotid lymphatic glands. Nerve Supply of the Tympanum.—The nerve supply of the tympanum is