156 SURGICAL ANATOiMY. recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the carotid sheath, containing the pneiimogastric nerve, common carotid artery, and internal jugular vein. Behind the muscle are tffe cervical and upper thoracic vertebKi3 and the vertebral artery. Below, the vertebral artery lies along the outer border of the muscle, in the groove between it and the scalenus auticus muscle. Nerve Supply.—From the anterior branches of the lower cervical nerves. Action.—It flexes the cervical ])ortion of the spinal colunni, slightly flexes it laterally, and rotates it. The rectus capitis anticus major muscle arises from the anterior tubercles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae by four tendinous slips; these slips pass upward and inward to the belly of the muscle, Avhich is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone by a short tendon. In front of the muscle are the prevertebral fascia, the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular vein, the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and a portion of the pharynx. Behind it are the rectus capitis anticus minor and part of the longus colli muscle, and the upper cervical vertebrae. Nerve Supply.—From the first and second cervical nerves. Action.—It flexes the head and rotates the face to the same side. Dissection.—Divide the rectus capitis anticus major muscle near the basilar process and reflect it downward to expose tlie rectus capitis anticus minor muscle. The rectus capitis anticus minor muscle arises from the anterior part of the lateral mass and the root of the transverse process of the atlas. Its fibers pass upward and inward to be inserted into the basilar ])rocess of the occipital bone, between the foramen magnum and the insertion of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which lies in front of it. Behind it is the occijnto-atlantal joint. ■ Nerve Supply.—From the first cervical nerve. Action.—It flexes the head. The rectus capitis lateralis muscle is seen to the outer side of, and slightly posterior to, the rectus capitis anticus minor muscle. It ai'ises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. In front of it are the internal jugular vein and the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, and behind it are the trachelo-mastoid muscle and the vertebral artery. The occipital arterj' lies on its outer side. Nerve Supply.—From tlie anterior branch of the first cervical nerve. Action.—It flexes the head lat(M-alIy. There are three bursas in tlie neck : one in front of the upper part of the thyroid cartilage, or povnnn Adami; another between the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone ; a third is also situ-