DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 53 of the clavicle. These two heads unite at a variable distance from the clavicle. The muscle is inserted into the external surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone by a strong, thick tendon, and into the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone by a thin aponeurosis. The muscle is narrower in the middle than at either extremity. Its anterior border is the surgeon's guide in the ligation of the common, external, and internal carotid arteries, the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, and occipital arteries at their origin, and the inferior thyroid artery as it enters the thyroid gland; in exposing the spinal acces- sory nerve; upon the left side in the operation of esophagotomy ; and in all other operations upon the front of the side of the neck. The posterior border of the muscle is a guide in the ligation of the subclavian and vertebral arteries; the inferior thyroid artery at its origin ; in stretching the spinal accessory nerve, the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and the cervical trunks of the brachial or axillary plexus; and in all other operations upon the posterior portion of the side of the neck. Blood Supply.—From the superior, middle, and inferior sterno-mastoid arte- ries. The superior sterno-mastoid is a branch of the occipital artery, and enters the muscle with the spinal accessory nerve ; the middle sterno-mastoid is a branch of the superior thyroid artery, and enters the middle one-third of the muscle, after crossing the sheath of the common carotid artery in the superior carotid triangle on a level with the thyroid cartilage ; the inferior sterno-mastoid is a branch of the supra-scapular artery, and enters the lower one-third of the muscle. The muscle also receives a twig f"om the posterior auricular artery. Nerve Supply.—From the spinal accessory and the anterior divisions of the second and third cervical nerves. Action.—The combined action of the sterno-mastoid muscles is to draw the head forward, elevating the chin at the same time ; when one muscle alone acts, it turns the face to the opposite side, cooperating with the opposite splenius muscle ; it also draws the head toward the shoulder of the same side. If the head be fixed, these muscles will raise the sternum, as in forced respiration. Torticollis.—Permanent contraction of one of the sterno-mastoid muscles con- stitutes torticollis (wryneck). The deep muscles of the neck—splenius capitis et colli, complexus, superior oblique, inferior oblique, and rectus capitis posticus major—may also be involved in this deformity, particularly in cases of long standing. In true congenital wryneck, due possibly to faulty position of the fetus in utero, the sterno-mastoid muscle has, in some instances, been found to be abnor- mally short. Some cases of Avryneck are doubtless due to laceration of the muscle during birth, with subsequent cicatricial contraction.- Facial asymmetry