74 SURGICAL ANATOMY. and pneumogastric nerve by septa. At the lower ])art of tlie neck the internal jugular veins observe a slightly different course. At its termination the right inttrnal jugular vein leaves the right common carotid artery to join the subclavian vein, forming a triangular interval between the artery and vein, while the left internal jugular vein turns forward to join the subclavian vein, and overlaps the left common carotid artery at the root of the neck. The internal jugular vein has a pair of valves about three-fourths of an inch from its termination. Opposite the angle of the lower jaw a communicating branch from the external jugular vein and some pharyngeal veins empty into it. Nciir the level of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone it receives the facial and lingual veins; lower, the superior thyi'oid vein ; and opposite the cricoid cartilage, the middle thyroid vein. The common carotid artery.—The right and left common carotid arteries are dissimilar in origin, but occupy similar positions in the neck (for this reason but one artery will be described). The right common carotid arises from the innominate artery behind the upper margin of the right sterno-clavicular articula- tion ; the left connnon carotid arises from the highest part of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. As the left common carotid artery arises within the chest, it is the longer of the two vessels; it may be divided into a thoracic and a cervical portion. The thoracic portion of the left common carotid artery will be described with the chest. The course of the common carotid, external carotid, and internal carotid arteries when the face is turned slightly to the opposite side, is represented by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a })oint midway between the angle of the lower jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. That por- tion of the line below the level of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone indicates the course of the common carotid artery, and that part above the hyoid bone indi- cates the position of the internal carotid and external carotid arteries. The external carotid deviates slightly from this line toward the angle of the lower jaw. At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is situated deeply beneath the sternal origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid mviscle, being separated from its fellow by the trachea, which is about an inch in width. Thence it ascends in the inner compartment of the sheath of the vessels, beneath the anterior border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, to terminate opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage l)y l)ifurcat- ing into the external and internal carotid arteries. As the artery ascends it diverges from the median line, on account of the interposition of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland between it and the trachea, and as a result of the width of the larynx. It is covered by the skin, su])erficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, superficial layer of the deep fascia, the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid mus-