655 FEMALE PERINEUM. vaginalis. It is composed of blind tubules, and is the remains of part of the Wolffian body. The paradidymis and hydatids of Morgagni are common sources of cysts and other tumors. The cj^sts are among those classed as encysted hydro- cele of the epididymis, which may also arise from the seminiferous tubules and their vasa aberrantia. FEMALE PELIINEVM. Dissection.—The subject is placed upon the table in the same manner and position as described in the dissection of the male perineum. Definition.—The perineum includes all those structures which fill the outlet of the pelvis. Boundaries.—This space, as in the male, is of quadrangular or lozenge shape, bounded superficially in front Ijy the upper border of the os pubis, at the sides and behind by the thighs and buttocks. The deep boundaries are the same as those of the male. This general space is subdivided into two triangles by a line drawn trans- vei'sely from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other—the posterior is called the anal triangle; the anterior, the urethro-vaginal triangle or perineum proper. The anatomy of the anal triangle, including the iscliio-rectal fossa?, is the same as in the male. (See Male Perineum.) The Mons Veneris is a cushion of fat and areolar tissue covered with rather firmly adherent integument and hair; it rests upon the external surface of the symphysis and bodies of the pubes. The area covered by hair ends abruptly above, at about the upper border of the mons veneris ; in the male it is usually prolonged upward in the median line as far as the umbilicus. The mons veneris divides at its lower part into the two labia majora, the point of separation con- stituting the Anterior Commissure of the Vulva. The Labia Majora are pro- longed downward and around the piidcndal cleft or uro-genital fissure to unite below at the Posterior Commissure of the Vulva. The labia majora, which, like the mons veneris, are largely composed of fatty tissue covered Avith integument and hair, contain some smooth muscular fibers, vessels, and nerves. They are the female representatives of the scrotum. The inner surface of the labium majus is covered by delicate skin, which contains large sebaceous follicles. The fatty tissue of the labia majora may develop excessively, thereby forming enormous lipomata. The labia majora, like the scrotum in the male, are affected by elephantiasis.