549 THE PONS VAROLII. radiata, so called on account of the crown-like radiation of its fibers. The trans- verse commissural fibers include the fibers of the corpus callosum and the anterior and posterior commissures of the third ventricle. The longitudinal commissural fibers include the fibers of the fornix, the striae longitudinales of the corpus callosum, the tsenia semicircularis, fibers in the gyrus fornicatus and gyrus hippo- campi, and the peduncles of the pineal body. They also include the associating fibers: those fibers which connect the cells of neighboring and of more distant con- volutions. THE PONS VAROLII. Dissection.—Having completed the dissection of the cerebrum, excepting the tracing of the crura cerebri, turn the brain so as to expose the base, and study the pons, then the medulla oblongata, and lastly the cerebellum. The Pons Varolii, or Tuber Annulare, is that division of the brain through the medium of which the other three divisions of the brain are united. It is con- nected with the cerebrum, above, by the crura cerebri, or peduncles of the cere- brum ; with the cerebellum, behind, by the middle peduncles of the cerebellum ; and with the medulla, below, by the fibers of the pyramidal tract of the medulla oblongata. It is situated behind the crura cerebri, in front of the medulla oblon- gata, between and below the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and between the posterior portion of the temporo-sphenoid lobes of the cerebrum. In the cranial cavity it lies below the level of the superior occipital foramen of the tentorium cerebelli, and rests upon the basilar process of the occipital bone and the posterior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone. It is c[uadrangular in shape, and is composed chiefly of white matter, the fibers of Avhich are arranged transversely and longitudinally. It presents two surfaces, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior surface is markedly convex from side to side, and slightly so from before backward, and measures transversely about one and one-half inches, or four centi- meters, and is about one inch, or twenty-five millimeters, in length. The anterior surface is marked along the middle line by a groove, which is broader in front than behind, and lodges the basilar artery. The anterior surface presents two borders, an upper and a lower. The upper border, the longer, is convex, and arches beneath the crura cerebri. The lower border is almost straight, and is separated from the medulla oblongata by a transverse groove. The posterior surface is slightly concave from side to side, and forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. From the side of the pons the trifacial or fifth cranial nerve is seen emerging. In coronal sections the pons can be divided into an anterior or ventral region, and a posterior or tegmental region. The anterior region of the jwns is composed of transverse and longitudinal fibers. The superficial transverse fibers of the ante-