442 SURGICAL ANATOMY. forward into the great longitudinal fissure. Another large space is found ahove the corpus callosum ; in the pia mater at the bottom of this space are the anterior ceiebral arteries. Between the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina is an additional space, which contains the veins of Galen. These spaces communicate very freely with one another, and with the fourth-ventricle, as stated. The Cerebro-spinal Fluid is a serous fluid, but, unlike ordinary serum, it is not coagulable. This fluid assists in protecting the brain and spinal cord from violent shocks and vibrations. It is secreted by the cells of the ependyma over the fringe-like, vascular processes of the choroid plexus, and slightly by the cells of the arachnoid. However, it is chiefly derived from the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles, and to a less extent from the choroid plexuses of the third and fourth ventricles. The fluid passes from the lateral ventricles to the third ventricle through the foramina of Monro, from the third to the fourth ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and from the fourth ventricle through the fora- mina of Magendie, Key, and Retzius, to the subarachnoid space of the brain and spinal cord ; some of the cerebro-spinal fluid passes directly from the fourth ven- tricle to the central canal of the spinal cord. This constitutes the course through which the cerebro-spinal fluid circulates, and equalizes the intra-cranio-spinal pressure. By exudation of plastic lymph at the base of the brain, meningitis, especially the tubercular variety, may cause- obstruction of the foramina of Magen- die, Key, and Retzius, and produce dropsy or hydrocele of the ventricles {internal hydrocephalus); hence, tapping of the lateral ventricles, which is sometimes prac- tised in these cases, can give but temporary relief. Aspiration of the subarachnoid space through the anterior fontanel or of the spinal subarachnoid space, for hydrocephalus, is followed by a similar result. The sudden removal of a large quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid, either by tapping the lateral ventricles or by aspirating through the anterior fontanel, is not without its dangers, and has been followed by severe convulsions. The normal quantity of infra-cranial lymph varies in amount from two drams to two ounces (H. Allen). The cerebro-spinal fluid is supposed to escape from the subarachnoid space of the brain and spinal cord by way of the prolongations of the arachnoid along the cranial and spinal nerves; these extensions of the sirbarachnoid space are in communication with the lymphatic vessels in the sheaths of those nerves, and in this manner the fluid reaches the general lymphatic system of the body. It is also supposed that some of the cerebro-spinal fluid escapes by way of the Pac- chionian l)odies directly into the sinuses of the dura mater. Choked Disc.—In tubercular or other forms of inflammation of the mem- branes at the base of the brain with deposit of lymph, or in case of tumor at the