SURGICAL ANATOMY. 104 The mylo-hyoid nerve, a branch of the inferior dental nerve, may be seen emerging from Ijetween the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle. It runs fwward with the submental artery upon the mylo-hyoid muscle, to terminate in the anterior belly of the digastric muscle, supplying the mylo-hyoid and the ante- rior belly of the digastric muscle. The mylo-hyoid artery accompanies the mylo-hyoid nerve between the internal pterygoid muscle and lower jaw, and anastomoses with the submental and dorsalis lingua' arteries. The hypo-glossal nerve, the motor nerve of the tongue, is the twelfth or last of the cranial nerves. It leaves the cranial cavity at the anterior condyloid fora- men, and descends almo.st vertically toward the angle of the lower jaw, lying at first deeply beneath the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and is intimately connected with the lower ganglion (ganglion of the trunk) of the pneumogastric nerve. It then passes forward between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, and beneath the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, at the lower border of which it becomes more superficial and enters the superior carotid triangle. It next passes over the internal carotid and curves around the occipital artery, at its origin from the external carotid artery ; thence it continues forward over the external carotid and facial arteries, and near the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, over the superior laryngeal nerve, the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and the hyo-glos.sus muscle, forming a loop the convexity of \\ hich is directed downward and outward. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle it communicates with the gustatory or lingual nerve. It passes beneath the tendon of the digastric, the stylo- hyoid, and the mylo-hyoid muscle. After running beneath the stylo-hyoid and the posterior part of the tendon of the digastric muscle, it lies in the submaxillary triangle upon the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the submaxillary gland. Here it forms the base of the lingual triangle, and lies above the lingual vein. It supplies all of the extrinsic muscles of the tongue, the thyro-liyoid, and through the descendens hypoglos.si nerve assists in supplying the omo-hyoid, sterno-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. The branch to the thyro-hyoid muscle is given off ■ near the tip of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes obliquely down- ward and forward to reach the superficial surface of that muscle. Parali/sis of one Jij/po-f/lo^sal nerve causes wasting and flabbiness of the corre- sponding half of tlie tongue ; when the tongue is protruded, the tip of the organ is carried toward the ])aralyzed side. Dissection.—In completing the dissection of the submaxillary triangle, the anterior belly of the digastric muscle should be detached from the lower jaw and displaced downward, when the mylo-hyoid, the muscle forming the greater part