550 SURGICAL ANATOMY. rior region of the pons pass obliquely outward and backward to the hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming the middle peduncles of the cerebellum. The deep transverse fibers of the anterior region of the pons are decussating fibers, which are crossing in the pons in passing from the cerebellar hemisphere of one side to the cerebral hemisphere of the opposite side. The longitudinal fibers are more deeply situated than the superficial transverse fibers, and are separated into bundles by the deep transverse fibers. They are the fibers of the pyramidal tracts of the medulla oblongata, passing upward to enter the crustse of the crura cerebri. In the posterior or tegmental region of the pons the chief structures observed are the tract of the fillet, Avhich is seen nearest the anterior region, the formatio retic- ularis, the posterior longitudinal bundle, and the superior olivary nucleus. This region of the pons also contains the nuclei of the sixth and seventh cranial nerves, and a part of the nucleus of the eighth cranial nerve. While the importance of these nuclei has been clearly proved by clinical experience in cases of paralysis caused by hemorrhage occurring within the substance of the pons, as well as by microscopic investigation, they are not macroscopically visible. Hemorrhage into the pons is usually followed by coma and sudden death, par- ticularly if the hemorrhage is extensive, or if the blood escapes into the fourth ventricle. The decussation of the trifacial and the facial nerves takes place within the pons ; if, therefore, a lesion—as, for example, a small hemorrhage—occur above the point of the crossing of the fibers of the facial nerve, paralysis of the face and body on the side opposite the lesion will occur ; while if the lesion be immediately below the point of crossing, the paralysis of the face will be upon the side of the lesion and the hemiplegia upon the side opposite to the lesion, thus giving rise to the condition known as crossed hemiplegia. Nerve fibers from the motor cortical area for speech run through the pons, and may be involved in a lesion of the pons, thus giving rise to aphasia. The Crura Cerebri, or Peduncles of the Cerebrum, are two large round bodies of white matter, about tliree-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, in length, and broader in front than behind. They emerge from the upper border of the pons, whence they pass outward and forward to enter the under part of the hemispheres of the cerebrum. They pass through the superior occipital foramen in conij)any with the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, the basilar arter}', and the oculo-motor and pathetic nerves. Crossing the lower surface of the crura just before they enter the hemispheres of the cerebrum, and adherent to them, are the optic tracts, while in relation with their inner borders are the oculo-motor nerves, and with their outer margins, the patlietic nerves. Dissection.—Divide one of the crura cerebri ti'ansversely, and a nucleus of