THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. 385 branch. Like the vessels of the brain, lungs, etc., its branches are end arteries, not anastomosing in the substance of the retina with each other or witli the ciliary arteries. Probably the greater portion of the nourishment of the retina is derived from the posterior ciliary vessels, through the chorio-capillaris of the choroid. The retinal veins converge to form two vessels which enter the optic nerve at the optic disc, and soon join to form one vena centralis retinse, which pursues a course in the nerve corresponding to that of the artery. Dissection.—The method of Anderson Stuart will be found the most satis- factory for studying the vitreous body and lens. A perfectly fresh eyeball should not be used : it should be kept from one to three days before being utilized, according to the season of the year. The three tunics are divided at the equator and turned back. This is done carefull} and over a vessel of diluted alcohol, into which the so-called " eye kernel," composed of the vitreous body and lens, is allowed to fall. The " eye kernel" is then placed in a strong picrocarmin solution for a few minutes, and when removed, it should be well washed. By this method the hyaloid membrane, the lens capsule, and the zone of Zinn are stained red. If the solution is shaken gently, the coloring matter may ^enter the hyaloid canal, which may tluis be recognized. The Vitreous Body is a soft, gelatinous, perfectly transparent substance, composed of semi-solid connective tissue. It occupies the posterior cavity or vitreous chamber of the globe. The vitreous chamber is bounded behind and laterally by the retina, and in front by the lens and the zone of Zinn. The vitreous body consists of the vitreous substance, inclosed by the hyaloid membrane, except anteriorly, where the \itreous substance comes into direct contact with the lens capsule, receiving the lens into a depression, the patellar fossa of the vit- reous body. It has an indistinctly reticulated structure, and may contain small corpuscular bodies which occasionally produce shadows upon the retina, the so- called muscae volitantes. Running from the optic disc to the center of the posterior surface of the lens is a narrow canal, lined by a prolongation of the hyaloid membrane, and called the hyaloid canal, canal of Stilling, or canal of Cloquet. During fetal life this canal transmits an artery to the lens, the hyaloid artery, and in the adult contains the remains of the supporting connective tissue or rarely an atrophied vessel. The Zone of Zinn, Zonula of Zinn, or Suspensory Ligament of the Lens, is the thickened portion of the hyaloid membrane extending from the ciliary body to the lens. At the ora serrata the hyaloid membrane becomes attached to the ciliary body and remains so attached as far as the peripheral or anterior ends of the ciliary processes. From the apices of the ciliary processes thick bands of the hyaloid membrane pass over to the lens, going to its periphery and