THE LARYNX. 269 cords. They partially undermine tlie false cords, and a probe or grooved director passed into one of them will enter a diverticulum which passes beneath the ante- rior portion of the false cord, and which visually projects upward as high as the upper border of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This diverticulum is the laryngeal pouch or sac. The ventricles of the larynx may retain small foreign bodies which have entered the larynx. Through irritation these bodies may cause spasm of the muscles of the larynx and asphyxia. The Fossa Innominata is a depression situated behind the margin of the epiglottis, on the lateral wall of the larynx, and between the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and the false vocal cord. It is indistinct except during phonation. The Mucous Membrane of the Larynx is thin and closely adherent over the true cords, but is thicker, more vascular, and, excepting over the epiglottis, loosely adherent elsewhere. It is continuous above with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and below with that of the trachea, so that an inflammation of the mucous membrane may spread, by continuity, from the pharynx to the larynx to the trachea. This course is frequently observed in diphtheria. Irritation of this membrane, as by a foreign body or mucus in laryngitis, causes cough, or spasm of the muscles of the larynx, as in croup or laryngismus stridulus. Edema of the mucous membrane of the larynx or edema of the glottis is frequently associated with severe attacks of acute laryngitis, as after swallowing hot or irritating liquids or the inhalation of irritating vapors. Unless the submu- cous effusion of serum is allowed to escape by scarification, death may result from asphyxia. Intubation of the larynx, laryngotomy, or tracheotomy may be required to prevent suffocation. As the submucous tissue is more plentiful at the superior aperture of the larynx, and especially upon the epiglottis, tiie swelling is most extensive in this location. The Mucous Glands of the Larynx are found in the mucous membrane of all portions of the larynx except over the true cords. They are especially numerous in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, in front of the arytenoid cartilages, in the laryngeal sacs, and upon the posterior surface of the epiglottis, in which they ai*e lodged in pits. These glands keep the larynx moist, and those in the laryngeal sacs are especially active in lubricating the true vocal cords during phonation. After long-continued speaking, especially if in the open air, these glands are unable to preserve the moist condition of the true vocal cords, and the voice becomes husky. These same conditions are likely to cause a determination of blood to the larynx and produce an acute lar3mgitis. When the ducts of these glands become occluded, cystic tumors appear in the mucous membrane of the larynx. Dissection.—Clean the cartilages of the larynx, preserving the slender liga-