547 THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. restiform bodies of the medulla. This fissure is continuous below with the central canal of the spinal cord. This portion of the fourth ventricle has received the name of calamus scriptorius because of the resemblance of the longitudinal fis- sure and the diverging posterior pyramids and restiform bodies to the point of a pen. Immediately to each side of the median furrow is a longitudinal ridge, the eminentia teres. Crossing this eminence in the lower half of the ventricle are bands of white matter, the auditory stria3 or striae acusticae. To the outer side of the eminentia teres and anterior to the auditory strite is a depressed area, the supe- rior fovea, while behind the auditory striae, and to the outer side of the eminentia teres, are two furrows so united as to form an inverted V, the inferior fovea; the floor of the inferior fovea is known as the ala cinerea. The trigonum hypoglossi is the area of the floor of the fourth ventricle bounded by the longitudinal fissure, striae acusticae, and inferior fovea, and covers the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve. The tuberculum acusticum is the triangular area situated between the inferior fovea and the clava of the funiculus gracilis, and extending forward under the striae acusticae. . In front of the superior fovea and external to the eminentia teres is a small eminence of dark gray matter, the locus caeruleus. Prolonged forward from the locus caeruleus, at the side of the eminentia teres and extending to the upper end of the floor of the ventricle, is a thin streak of dark gray matter, the taenia violacea. The locus caeruleus and taenia violacea are produced by the substantia ferruginea., whose dark color is seen through the overlying white matter. The substantia ferruginea is the dark, pigmented mass seen in seotions of the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The ependyma lining the fourth ventricle is contin- uous through the aqueduct of Sylvius with that lining the third ventricle. Dissection.—Next complete the dissection of the cerebrum by making hori- zontal sections of the corpora striata and optic thalami, carrying the incisions through to the external or lateral surface of the hemisphere. This Avill expose the caudate nucleus, the internal capsule, the lenticular nucleus, the external capsule, the claustrum, and the island of Reil from within outward in the order named. The Caudate Nucleus, or intra-ventricular portion of the corpus striatum, is the more anterior of the gray basal ganglia, and has been described. The Internal Capsule lies external to and behind the caudate nucleus, and separates the caudate from the lenticular nucleus, and the lenticular nucleus from the optic thalamus. The internal capsule, composed of white matter and some- what crescentic or angular in shape, consists of a genu and two limbs, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior limb, named by Spitzka the caudo-lenticular portion, intervenes between the caudate and lenticular nuclei. The posterior limb, named by the same author the thalamo-lenticular portion, intervenes between the