SURGICAL ANATOMY. 510 parieto-occipital fissure to the posterior limit of the base or root of tlie mastoid process. This lobe in front reaches as far as the posterior superior border of the ^^lalar bone. A line drawn parallel with and one inch, or two and one-half centi- meters, below the line of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius indicates the course of the superior temporo-sphenoid fissure. A line drawn parallel with and three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, below the latter line, indicates the course of the middle temporo-sphenoid fissure. The superior temporo-sphenoid convolution corresponds to the interval between the line of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius and the line of the su})erior temporo-s})henoid fissure. The middle temporo-sphenoid convolution corresponds to the interval between the lines of the superior and middle temporo-sphenoid fissures. Individual Variations and How to Determine Them.—It is to be borne in mind that the brain of one individual ditlers from that of another, and, therefore, there is no method which will in all instances represent the position of the fissures and convolutions with absolute correctness. After the brain cortex is exposed in an operation, the Faradic current can be applied to decide what portion of the motor area of the cortex has been ex})Osed. It can be readily appreciated that through so small an oi)ening as that made by the trephine it is scarcely possible to recognize special fissures and convolutions, especially when we recollect how difficult it is at time's to locate them in the dissection of the brain. Indications for Trephining.—Exclu<ling tre|)liining for fracture of the skull, the cranial cavity is opened for one of several ]iurj)()ses—namely, to expose the superior and interior maxillary nerves wlicn it is jmrposed to excise one or both for trifacial neuralgia ; for the removal of the Ciasserian ganglion, as described; to remove a blood clot; to control hemorrhage from one or both branches of the middle meningeal artery ; to open the lateral sinus in septic thrombosis consequent upon middle ear disease ; to remove part of the brain cortex, as in Jacksonian epilepsy ; to remove a brain tumor or a foreign body ; to evacuate an abscess; to relieve intra-cranial pressure ; to tap the lateral ventricles ; for the relief of other- wise uncontrollable headache when the point of greatest j)ain can be located ; and for traumatic epilepsy. To Expose the Lateral Sinus.—In septic thrombosis of the lateral sinus con- se(iuent upon middle ear disease that portion of the sinus in relation with the mastoid process, the sigmoid ])ortion, is exposed. To reach this portion, first draw two lines, one vertical through the middle of the mastoid process, and a second on a level with the roof of the external auditory meatus and at a right angle to the first. At the point of junction of these two lines apply the center pin of a one-inch trephine. The most superficial portion of this sinus is not so deeply situated as the mastoid antrum, being, as a rule, about one-fourth of an inch, or six milli-