256 SURGICAL ANATOMY. pierced by one or two branches of the arch formed by the crico-thyroid arteries. It hes immediately beneath the interval between the two sterno-Iiyoid muscles and between the two sterno-thjn'oid muscles, and may be seen in the triangular interval between the inner margins of the crico-tliyroid muscles. Laryngotomy is performed through the lower border of this portion of the membrane. The lateral portions of the meml)rane are thin, and ])ass upward from the inner margin of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage to become continuous with tlie true vocal cords. The lateral portions of the crico-thyroid membrane are covered by the crico-thyroid, lateral crico-arytenoid, and thyro-arytenoid muscles. Dissection.—Place the larynx, with the anterior aspect down, upon a board, and fasten it in that position with pins or tacks. Carefully remove the pharyngeal mucous membrane from its posterior aspect, preserving the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the inferior laryngeal artery, which is a branch of the inferior thyroid artery. Then remove the mucous membrane from the external surface of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and the portion of the thyroid cartilage bounding the sinus pyriformis. Next cut through the crico-thyroid articulation on one side, and divide the ala of the thyroid cartilage about one-fourth of an inch to the same side of the angle of that cartilage. This dissection requires care to avoid injuring the underlying muscles, vocal cords, lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, the superior laryngeal artery, the internal laryngeal nerve, and the terminal por- tion of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior larjaigeal artery. The Crico-arytenoideus Posticus Muscle arises from the surface at the side of the posterior median ridge of the cricoid cartilage. It is inserted into the pos- terior portion of the external angle (muscular process) of the arytenoid cartilage. Its upper fibers pass transversely outward ; its middle fibers, obliquely upward and outward, and its lower fibers, vertically upward. Nerve Supply.—From the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Action.—It rotates the arytenoid cartilage, and opens the rima glottidis, and its vertical fibers produce the gliding motion of that cartilage. The arylenoideus muscle is a single muscle, situated between the arytenoid cartilages. It consists of superficial obli(|ue fibers and a transverse portion. The oblique fibers arise from the external angle of one arytenoid cartilage, and pass upward and outward to the summit of the opposite arytenoid cartilage, crossing the oblique fibers from the other side in the form of the letter X. Some of these fibers pass around the apex of the arytenoid cartilage, and join the aryteno- epiglottideus muscle to form a sphincter for the superior aperture of the larynx. The transverse portion is thicker, and connects the posterior concave surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages. Nerve Supply.—From the recurrent and superior laryngeal nerves.