SURGICAL ANATOMY. 84 The superior cervical ganglion, the largest of the three, is a long, fusiform body situated opposite the transverse processes of the second and third cervical vertebrae, behind the sheath of the great vessels. It is formed probably by the fusion of four ganglia, as it communicates with four spinal nerves. It gives off an ascending and a descending branch, branches to cranial and cervical nerves, branches which follow the external carotid artery and its branches, pharyngeal branches, laryngeal branches, and the superior cardiac nerve. The ascending branch passes upward through the carotid canal, with the inter- nal carotid artery. It divides into an external and an internal branch. Its exter- nal branch forms the carotid plexus, while its internal branch forms the cavernous plexus. The descending branch passes downward to the middle cervical ganglion. The branches to the cranial nerves communicate with the ganglia of the root and trunk of the pneumogastric nerve, the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve, and the hypo-glossal nerve. No branches pass to the spinal accessory nerve. The branches to the spinal nerves pass outward over the rectus capitis anticus major muscle to join the upper four cervical nerves. The branches which ramify upon the external carotid artery and its branches (nervi molles) proceed from the upper part of the ganglion. The nervi molles upon the external carotid artery supply branches to the intercarotid body ; the nervi molles of the facial artery, branches to the submaxillary ganglion (the sym- pathetic root); those upon the middle meningeal artery, the sympathetic root to the otic ganglion, and the external superficial petrosal nerve, which is the sym- pathetic root of the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. The pharyngeal branches pass inward behind the internal and external carotid arteries, and assists in forming the pharyngeal plexus. The laryngeal brandies join the superior laryngeal nerve. The superior cervical sympathetic cardiac nerve arises from the lower part of the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion, or from the cord which runs to the middle cervical ganglion. It runs downward behind the carotid sheath, communicating with the superior cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, the external laryngeal, and the recurrent larvngeal nerve. In the chest the two nerves take different courses. The right superior cervical sympathetic cardiac nerve passes in front of or behind the first portion of the subclavian arter}'', following the innominate artery, and terminating in the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side the nerve passes between the left common carotid and the left subclavian artery, and over the left side of the arch of the aorta, to the left of the left pneumogastric nerve, terminat- ing in the superficial cardiac plexus. The middle cervical or thyroid ganglion, the smallest of the three ganglia.