415 THE ORGAN OF HEARING. external auditory meatus, or vice versa. Tlirough tliis wall a mastoid abscess may be evacuated by way of the external auditory meatus. The posterior wall of the antrum is a bony lamina of variable thickness, separating the antrum from the groove for the sigmoid sinus ; through it small veins pass from the middle ear and mastoid antrum to the sigmoid sinus. By way of these veins septic material due to otitis media or mastoid disease may reach the sigmoid portion of the lateral sinus, and cause septic thrombosis and embolism. The inner wall of the mastoid antrum is from nine-sixteenths to three-fourths of an inch, or fourteen to eighteen millimeters, distant from the base line of the supra-meatal triangle (MacEwen). The facial canal lies in the inner wall of the pas.sage from the mastoid antrum to the tympanum. This canal, which is separated from the tympanum by a thin, osseous lamina, is situated above the oval window of the tympanum ; on the inner side of the antro-tympanal passage- way the canal curves and then descends to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The wall of the canal is thin in children, and may be defective in that portion which lies over the oval window ; the nerve is therefore more likely to suffer from neuritis in otitis media in children than from the same disease in adults. The outer wall of the mastoid antrum is formed by the descending plate of the squamous portion of the temporal bone ; the antrum is from one-half to three- fifths of an inch, or from twelve to fifteen millimeters, distant from the surface of the bone. In an infant the outer wall of the mastoid antrum is al)out two milli- meters in thickness, and in a child nine years of age it is ten millimeters thick (Symington). In the second year this wall rapidly increases in thickness. In infants the descending plate of the squamosal bone is separated from the mastoid process by a suture, the masto-squamosal suture. In adults this suture at times persists wholly or partially. In children, on account of the tenuity of the external wall of the mastoid antrum and the presence of this suture, pus may find its way to the exterior through the middle ear and mastoid antrum, and form a subperios- teal abscess over the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. In some cases this wall has been perforated spontaneously by absorption of the bone. In these cases an air tumor, or pneumatocele, which can be inflated through the Eustachian tube may form over the mastoid process. The Supra-meatal Triangle of MacEwen is bounded above by the posterior root of the zygoma, which runs nearly horizontally backward ; the antei'O-inferior boundary is formed by the posterior and upper margin of the bony meatus ; the posterior boundary is formed by a perpendicular line extending from the most posterior portion of the bony meatus to the posterior root of the zygoma. The apex of this triangular area is directed forward, and the area itself is usually somewhat depressed. Through this triangle the mastoid antrum may be reached