357 THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. THE EYEBALL. The eyeball is a globular bod}^ so situated in the orbital fossa as to be pro- tected by the orbital margins from injury by large ol)jects. It is freely movable around its axes, in order that objects may be seen without appreciable muscular effort. The mobility of the eyeball is i:)ermitted by the relation existing between the globe and the capsule of Tenon, which has been described with the orbit. The eyeball and capsule of Tenon form a ball-and-socket joint. Backward, lateral, vertical, and oblic|ue movements of the eyeball en masse are prevented by the attachments of the orbital fascia to the orbital margins and palpebral fascia, and forward movement of the organ is checked by the rectus muscles ; therefore the only movements of the ej^eball are those of rotation around its axes. Exces- sive rotation is prevented by the attachments of the anterior lamella of the orbital fascia and its thickened portions, designated check ligaments. Exophthalmos, or protrusion of the ej^eball from the orbit, may be caused by tumors or foreign bodies in the orbit, myopia, and enlargement of the eyeball by disease. It sometimes exists slightly after tenotomy of one of the rectus nmscles, and may be a sign of exophthalmic goiter. Sinking of the eyeball occurs after partial absorption of the orbital fat in wasting diseases, and is associated with general emaciation. Being a globular body, the eyeball has an anterior pole, located at the center of the cornea; and a posterior pole, at the center of the posterior segment of the eye, which is the portion covered by the sclera. It also has an equator, midway between the two poles ; an axis, or sagittal diameter, connecting the two poles; a vertical and a transverse diameter at the equator. It is not quite spheric, because the cornea is a segment of a smaller sphere, and projects forward like a watch-glass, increasing the sagittal diameter or axis; the transverse is slightly greater than the vertical diameter. The axis, or sagittal diameter, measures about 24.5 millimeters; the transverse equatorial diameter, about 23.9 milli- meters ; and the vertical equatorial diameter, about 23.5 millimeters. From these measurements it Avill be seen that the eyeball is slightly elongated from behind forward, and compressed from above downward. The axes of the two eyeballs are parallel Avith each other, although the axes of the two orbits are divergent anteriorly. Dissection.—By the time the orbit has been dissected, the human eyeball will be so far decomposed that it can not be easily nor profitably dissected. Fortunately, an adequate substitute is found in the eye of a pig, a sheep, or a bullock. Of these, the pig's eye corresponds more nearly in size to the human