223 THE MOUTH. Macroglossia, or congenitally large tongue, is usually due to increased devel- opment of the lymphoid tissue of the tongue. Blood Supply.—The nutrition of the tongue is derived from the lingual, facial, and ascending pharyngeal arteries. Nerve Supply.—From the glosso-pharyngeal, hypo-glossal, lingual, and chorda tympani nerves. The glosso-pharyngeal is the nerve of the special sense of taste, and supplies special sensory and common sensory fibers to the mucous mem- brane at the posterior third of the tongue, and to the circunivallate papillse. The hypo-glossal is the motor nerve, and supplies the extrinsic muscles and the lingualis muscle, the latter being also supplied by the chorda tympani nerve. The lingual, or gustatory, is the common sensory nerve of the tongue, and supplies the front and sides of that organ. Small branches of the superior laryngeal nerve are dis- tributed to the base of the tongue in the region of the ei)iglottis. Irritation of the lingual nerve, as by an ulcer or a carcinoma of the tongue, may cause reflected disturbance in the tissues supplied by other branches of the inferior maxillary nerve—through the auriculo-temporal nerve, pain in the pinna, external auditory meatus, and temporal region ; through the inferior dental nerve, pain in the lower teeth, lower gums, and chin; and through the motor branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, spasm of the muscles of mastication, excepting the buccinator muscle. In profound anesthesia relaxation of the tissues allows the tongue to fall backward, depress the epiglottis, and obstruct respiration. To relieve this condi- tion the anesthetizer carries the lower jaw forward by placing his fingers behind the angles of that bone. This procedure makes tension upon the genio-hj^o-glossus, genio-hyoid, and mylo-hyoid muscles, the hypo-glossal membrane, the glosso-epi- glottidean folds, and the hyo-epiglottidean ligament; draws the tongue, epiglottis, and hyoid bone forward; and opens the superior ajjerture of the larynx. The lymphatic vessels of the lips pass with the superficial lymphatic vessels of the front of the face into the submaxillary and superior deep cervical lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the roof of the mouth and deeper portion of the cheek terminate in the internal maxillary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the floor of the mouth and anterior part of the tongue pierce the mylo-hyoid muscle and join the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the tongue, excepting those of the most anterior portion, accompany the lingual vein, pass through the lingual lymphatic glands on the hyo-glossus muscle, and terminate in the superior deep cerv:'cal glands. In excision of the tongue for carcinoma it is advisable to remove the superior