580 SURGICAL ANATOMY. binated bone, part of the malar boiie, part of the palate bone, and the su})erior maxillary bone, except the upper part of its nasal process, are removed. In the method of excision which is most commonly practised,—that is, by a median incision,—the first incision is begun one-half of an inch, or slightly less than one and one-half ceutimetei's, below the inner canthus of the eyelids. It is carried downward along the groove between the nose and face, around the ala of the nose, below the base of the nose to the median line, and thence through the median line of the upper lip. This incision divides skin, superficial fascia, some of the muscles of expression, the angular artery and vein, the lateral nasal artery, the artery of the nasal septum, the superior coronary arter}', and branches of the infra-orbital and facial nerves. The second incision is carried from the point at which the first incision was commenced outward along the infra-orbital margin to a point over the malar bone. This incision divides a few insignificant blood-vessels. The tissues of the flap out- lined are now quickly reflected outward, removing all of them down to the bone, not considering the periosteum. In elevation of this flap the infra-orbital vessels and nerve are divided. The fibro-cartilaginous lateral portion of the nose is detached from the supe- rior maxilla, and the base of the nasal process of the superior maxilla is severed with a fine saw or a chisel. The jieriosteum is divided along the infra-orbital ridge, and elevated from the floor of the orbit, at the same time detaching the origin of the inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. The inner part of the floor of the orbit is then divided with a small chisel. The malar bone is next severed at its middle with a small saw or chisel, and in a line which extends obliquely down- ward and outward. The saw is carried through the floor of the orbit until it reaches the spheno-maxillary fissure. The malar bone can be divided with strong bone forceps, which are not allowed to extend into the spheno-maxillary fissure. If the forceps are inserted too deeply into the fissure, the internal maxillary artery may be severed. The central incisor on the diseased side is extracted, the muco-periosteum of the floor of the nose is divided close to the nasal septum, the muco-periosteum of the hard palate is severed in the median line, and the soft palate is tlioroughly separated from tlie hai-d palate. a slender saw introduced through the nose the hard palate is divided close to the nusal septum. A\'ith one blade of the forceps at the infra-orbital ridge and tlic other at the alveolar process, the jaw is grasped with lion forceps, and loosened from the remain- ing attachments. This procedure fractures the vertical plate of the palate bone, and detaches the jaw from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The vessels ruptured or divided in removing the superior maxilla are