328 SURGICAL ANATOMY. the orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle, to ^vhich alone it is dis- tributed. The lacrymal gland is a distinctly lobulated structure, which lies in the ©uter part of the orbit under the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is composed of two portions of unequal size, which are separated by the aponeurotic expansion of the levator palpebrte superioris muscle. The sepa- ration is not perfect, there being gaps wliich allow of communication between the portions of the gland. Of the two portions, the upper is by far the larger, and is called the su})erior or orbital portion, or superior lacrymal gland ; the lower and smaller part is called the inferior or palpebral portion, or inferior lacrymal gland. The superior lacrymal gland, as stated, comprises the main part of tlie gland. It is about the size of a small almond. Its upper surface is convex, and its lower surface concave. It is inclosed by a capsule, from which run fibrous trabecula? to be inserted into the posterior border of the orbital margin. These bands are called the suspensory ligaments of the lacrymal gland. The inferior lacrymal gland is looser in texture. It extends into the outer one-third of the uj^per eyelid, and can be readily seen in this position when the eyelid is everted. The lacrymal gland secretes the tears, which flow through ten to fifteen ducts into the outer })art of the superior conjunctival fornix about four millimeters above the upper margin of the tarsal cartilage. The tears flow thence inward over the ocular conjunctiva to the puncta lachrymalia, and pass through the lacrymal canaliculi, lacrymal sac, and lacrymo-nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The Muscles of the Orbit are the levator palpebrce superioris, superior oblique, superior rectus, external rectus, internal rectus, inferior rectus, and inferior oblique. With one exception—the inferior oblique—they arise from the margin of the optic foramen and diverge as they pass forward to their insertion. The levator palpebrae superioris muscle pursues a forward course between the orbital periosteum and the superior rectus muscle, which lies immediately below it. It arises from the orbital roof, above and in front of the o})tic foramen, and passes forward, gradually widening. It exi)ands into a broad a})oneurosis, passes between the two portions of the lacrymal gland, and s})lits into three lamelke. The uppei'most lamella blends with the superior orbito-tarsal ligament ; the middU; lamella, the most easily demonstrable, is inserted into the anterior surface of tlie upper border of the tarsal cartilage ; the lower lamella is attached to the conjunctival fornix. The margins of tlie tendon are attached to the margin of the orbit, and thus any excessive action of the nmscle is prevented.