364 SURGICAL ANATOMY. wounds of the cornea may produce an opacity resembling a small puff of smoke (nebula), or a pearly white opacity, which is designated leulvma. These opacities, ^ situated at the center of the cornea, interfere with the })assage of light to the most sensitive portion of the retina, making it necessary to form an artificial pupil. Abscesses of the cornea gravitate between the laminsB to the lower part of the cornea, producing a crescentic collection called onyx—because of its resemblance to the crescents at the roots of the finger-nails. These abscesses should be evacu- ated early to avoid perforation, escape of the aqueous humor, and protrusion of the iris. In elderly persons there is frequently seen an opacity of the corneal tissue near the margin of the cornea; this opacity usually begins at the upper part of the cornea, and then at the lower; subsequently, the extremities of the two hazy crescents meet, and a complete arcus senilis results. This condition is due to fatty or hyaline degeneration of the corneal tissue, probabl}' the result of defec- tive vascular supply. In pannus the cornea appears to contain blood-vessels. Through irritation from granular lids or. inverted eyelashes blood-vessels grow into the corneal con- jvmctiva, and later may enter the corneal tissue. Staphyloma of the cornea is a bulging forward of a corneal scar and ad- herent iris. It is })roduced by increased intra-ocular tension pushing forward the iris and even the lens against a weakened cornea, and causing repulsive disfigure- ment. A conic cornea is thin, protrudes further forward than normally, and retains its transparency. As a result, vision is imperfect. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the cornea is indirectlj' derived from the anterior ciliary and long posterior ciliary arteries. No blood-vessels are found in the cornea, nutrition being supplied by imbibition of lym])h into the lymph channels of the cornea. The lack of a direct blood supply accounts for the ten- dency of the cornea to become inflamed in poorly nourished persons. Nerve Supply.—The cornea receives a rich nerve sujiply from the ciliary nerves. Its nerves are merely axis cylinders, and, therefore, do not affect its trans- parency. From pressure on the ciliary nerves in increased intraocular tension, as in glaucoma, the cornea is anesthetized. The Pectinate Ligament of the Iris.—At the corneal margin the fourth layer of the cornea, the posterior limiting membrane, breaks up into fibrillffi, some of which run into the base of the iris. These comprise the pectinate ligament of the iris, and bridge over the angle between the cornea and the base of the iris. This ligament contains lymph .s])aces, called the spaces of Fontana, which communicate,