THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 495 The inferior temporo-sphenoid convolution lies along the lateral margin of the hemisphere, between the middle temporo-sphenoid fissure and the inferior temporo- sphenoid fissure ; it passes above the preoccipital notch, and is continuous behind with the third occipital convolution. Upon the basilar surface of the lobe it is continuous with the external occipito-temporal convolution, or fusiform lobule. The upper or Sylvian surface of the temporo-sphenoid lobe is in contact with the operculum, and intimately related to the island of Reil; it presents tAvo or three transverse convolutions. The fissures and convolutions presenting on the basilar surface being continu- ous Avith those of the occipital lobe, they Avill be described as part of the loAver occipito-temporal surface. Collateral fissure.—The basilar surface of the temporo-sphenoid lobe contains the greater poition of the inferior temporo-sphenoid fissure, as previously described. That portion of this surface which is continuous Avith the occipital lobe, and designated as the lower occipito-temporal surface, presents a constant and impor- tant secondary fissure, the inferior occipito-temporal or collateral fissure. This commences at the posterior extremity of the occipital lobe; thence it runs forAA'ard parallel to and below the calcarine fissure, nearly to the apex of the temporo- sphenoid lobe, extending almost as far as the commencement of the Sylvian fissure. It is sometimes bridged OA^er by a secondary couA^olution. It produces the eminentia collateralis, a prominence in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, seen at the point of divergence of the middle and posterior cornua of the A-^entricle. Thi-oiigh the medium of the collateral and hippocampal fissures the lower occipito-temporal surface is divided into three conA'olutions: the fusiform lobule, the lingual lobule, and the hippocampal or uncinate conA'olution. The hippocampal convolution and the lingual lobule are but portions of the internal or mesial occipito-temporal convolution. The lingual lobule lies betAveen the collateral fissure on the outer side, and the calcarine fissure on the inner side. It occupies chiefly the occipital part of the lower occipito-temporal surface. It is Avide behind and narroAA^ in front. The hippocampal or uncinate convolution lies between the collateral fissure on the outer side and the hippocampal on the inner side. It is formed by the union of the isthmus or posterior continuation of the gyrus fornicatus Avith the lingual lobule at the anterior extremity of the mesial limb of the parieto-occipital fissure. It continues forAvard, bordering the hippocampal fissure and embracing the crura cerebri, to terminate immediately behind the anterior perforated space by tui-ning upAA'ard and backAvard upon itself in the uncus. The external or lateral occipito-temporal convolution, or fusiform lobule, lies betAveen the collateral fissure on the inner side, and the inferior temporo-