SURGICAL ANATOMY. 206 secured at the anterior or at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. When it is exposed behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, it should be traced upward and divided above its sterno-mastoid branches. In its course downward 'from the jugular foramen the nerve runs beneath the internal jugular vein, the occipital artery and posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and enters the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle about midway between its two borders and about two inches from the tip of the mastoid process. It emerges from the muscle at about the middle of its posterior border. Between the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the point where it enters the sterno-mastoid muscle it is accompanied by the superior sterno-mastoid artery. Before exposing the nerve at the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the patient is placed on his back, with the slioulders raised and the neck extended. The incision begins at the anterior border of the mastoid process, and is carried downward for two and one-half or three inches along the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, a branch of the auricularis magnus nerve, and the deep fascia are divided, the external jugular vein being avoided. The sterno-mastoid muscle is drawn outward, and the nerve, with its accompanying sterno-mastoid artery, can be felt just below the prominent transverse process of the atlas, lying upon the levator anguli scapulae muscle. Before exposing the spinal accessory nerve at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the shoulders are elevated, the face is turned to the ojiposite side, and the neck is flexed laterally toward the opposite shoulder. The incision is made along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, is two inches in lengtli, and its center is at the middle of that border of the muscle. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided. The small occipital nerve is easily found as it runs along the upper one-half of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. This nerve is traced downward to the spinal accessory nerve, with which it forms a loop. The spinal accessory nerve is then traced beneath or through the deeper portioil of the sterno-mastoid miiscle and divided. The superficial branches of the cervical plexus may be exposed through the same incision as that made at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle for the spinal accessory nerve. The auricularis magnus nerve runs from the middle of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle toward the pinna. The occipitalis minor nerve lies between the superficial la3'er of the deep fascia and its posterior process (prevertebral fascia), and just behind the upper one-half of the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Tlie superficial cervical nerve emerges from under the sterno-mastoid muscle at the middle of its posterior