THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 449 continuation. A great difference in the size of the vessels of the two sides is not infrequently seen. It gives off branches to the uncinate convolution, with which it is in relation, and a branch, the middle thalamic, which passes vertically through the hippocampal sulcus to the optic thalamus. The Anterior Choroid Artery is given off by the internal carotid just beyond the posterior communicating artery. It passes backward and outward under the tip of the temporo-sphenoid lobe of the cerebrum, to enter the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle on its way to supply the hippocampus major, corpus fimbriatum, and choroid plexus. The Vertebral Artery, a branch of the first portion of the subclavian, enters the cranial cavity by way of the foramen-magnum and runs upward around the medulla oblongata, between the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve. Thence it runs forward along the medulla oblongata to the inner side of the hypoglossal nerve, and joins the vertebral artery of the opposite side at the lower border of the pons, to form a single trunk, the basilar artery. The branches given off from the vertebral artery within the cranial cavity ate the posterior meningeal, the anterior and posterior spinal, and the posterior inferior cerebellar artery. The Posterior Meningeal Artery arises from the vertebral artery opposite the foramen magnum, and supplies the bone and dura mater of the occipital fossa. The Anterior Spinal Artery arises from the vertebral artery near its termina- tion in the basilar, and joins the anterior spinal artery of the opposite side about the level of the foramen magnum. The common trunk then runs downward along the anterior median fissure of the spinal cord, in the pia mater. In its course it is reinforced by successive branches at the level of each verteora; these branches are derived from the vertebral, the ascending cervical, the intercostal, the lumbar, the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral arteries, all of which branches enter the spinal canal by way of the intervertebral foramina, and by their mesial union form a continuous anterior spinal artery which extends along the entire length of the anterior median fissure of the spinal cord. The Posterior Spinal Artery, smaller than the anterior, arises from the vertebral artery at the side of the medulla oblongata, and passes backward to the side of the posterior surface of the spinal cord, where it divides into two branches, one of which descends behind and the other in front of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Like the anterior spinal, it is reinforced at the successive vertebral levels by branches derived from the vertebral, the intercostal, the lumbar, the lateral sacral, and the common trunk of the anterior spinal artery by branches which run around the sides of the spinal cord. The Posterior Inferior Cerebellar Artery, the largest branch of the vertebral 11-29