246 SURGICAL ANATOMY. The Palato-glossus Muscle is found in tlie anterior pillar of the fauces. It arises from the under surface of the palatine aponeurosis, and is partly continuous with tlie palato-glossus muscle of tlie opposite side in front of the azygos uvulse muscle. It is inserted into the side of the tongue, and is partly continuous with the transverse muscular fibers of that organ. Action.—It draws the side of the soft palate downward, and elevates the sides and back part of the tongue, thus constricting the isthmus of the fauces to prevent the morsel of food from being driven back into the mouth in deglutition. The Azygos Uvulae Muscle is a double muscle, and arises from the palatine aponeurosis and the posterior nasal spine on the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and is inserted into the mucous membrane of the uvula. Action.—It elevates and shortens the uvula. The Palatine Aponeurosis is a thin but dense fibrous meml)rane, which is attached to the posterior margin of the hard jialate and gradually disappears as it approaches the posterior or free border of the soft })alate. Laterally, it is continu- ous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It receives the tendinous expansion of the tensor palati muscle, and gives form to the soft j)a]ate. The glandular tissue of the soft palate is most abundant in its upper surface, although there is some adenoid tissue in its under surface. Blood Supply.—From the dorsalis linguae and the ascending pharyngeal artery, the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery, and the posterior pala- tine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The veins correspond to the arteries. The lymphatics empty into the glands at the angle of the jaw. Nerve Supply.—From Meckel's ganglion, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal plexus of nerves, and the otic ganglion. The tensor palati muscle is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. The levator palati, palato-glo.ssus, palato-pharyngeus, and azygos uvuIje muscles are probably supplied by branches from tlie pharyngeal plexus, which are derived from the spinal accessory nerve. Clefts of the Soft Palate may exist independently of clefts of the hard palate. They are widened by the tensor palati, levator palati, palato-glossus, and palato-pharyngeus muscles. These clefts give rise to difficulty in deglutition, because they allow food to pass into the naso-pharynx and nose. Before closing the cleft, the aponeuroses of these muscles are divided to prevent them from caus- ing tension upon the sutures. The a})oneuroses of the tensor palati and levator palati muscles may be divided by one incision. A slender bistoury, with its cutting edge directed forward and upward, is inserted into the soft palate slightly in front of and close to the inner side of the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, until it })rojects through the superior surface