324 SURGICAL ANATOMY. tion which su})ports the fornix of the conjunctiva. The posterior hxmina turns backward behind the posterior one-third of the eyeball, and loosely envelops the ^ptic nerve and its sheath. The anterior lamina is a strong membrane throughout its extent, and that portion of it beneath the eyeball has been called the suspensory ligament of the eye- ball because, after excision of the superior maxilla, the lower portion of the anterior lamina forms a hammock-like sling which supports the eyeball and prevents it from sinking downward. This ligament is attached externally to the malar bone, and internally to the crest of the lacrymal bone. Where the four rectus muscles are located the anterior lamina is stronger and forms check ligaments —the external and internal check ligaments being the stronger. The external check ligament passes outward and forward from the tendon of the external rectus muscle and under the lacrymal gland to be attached to the malar bone just behind the external palpebral ligament. The internal check ligament passes inward from the internal rectus muscle to be attached to the upper })art of the crest of the lac- rymal bone behind the tensor tarsi muscle. The check ligaments of the rectus muscles prevent extreme action of these muscles, and after the external or internal rectus muscle is divided, prevent the belly of the muscle from retreating far back into the orbit. The capsule of Tenon is the mcml)rane which envelops the posterior two- thirds of the eyeball. It is a thin, translucent, fil)rous membrane formed by the posterior lamina and [)art of the anterior lamina of the orbital fascia, and extends from the insertions of the rectus muscles backward over the sclerotic coat of the eyeball almost to the place of entrance of the optic ners^e. Here it is reflected backward over the sheath of the optic nerve to the apex of the orbit. The capsule approaches the sheath of tlie optic nerve in passing toward the a})ex of the orbit, but does not l)len(l with it. The space between the .sheath of the optic nerve and the capsule of Tenon is tha supra-vaginal hpnpJi-spacc, and that between the sclerotic coat and the capsule is Tenon^s space. These are both l^-mph-spaces and are in communication. The capsule of Tenon is attached to the sclerotic coat and the sheath of the optic nerve by loose areolar tissue which permits free movement of the eyeball. The orbital surface of the capsule is in relation with the orbital fat. The capsule first comes into contact witli the rectus nmscles near the equator of the eyeball, where the capsule is })ierced by the tendons of these muscles. The anterior margin of the capsule of Tenon forms a circular line connecting the insertion of the rectus nuiscles. The posterior two-thirds of the eyeball and the capsule of Tenon might be said to form a ball-and-socket joint, ])ermitting tlie various rotatory and gliding movements of the ej'eball. The socket of the joint, or the capsule of Tenon, is