THE MOUTH. 219' by the irregular collection of lymphoid tissue, known as the lingual tonsil. When the lingual tonsil is much enlarged, it may depress the epiglottis and cause difficult respiration. On the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue the mucous membrane contains numerous papillae, which are of three varieties: fili- form, fungiform, and circumvallate. The filiform papillae are the smallest and most numerous. They are long, slender, conic, and branched at their free ends. Fur on the tongue, or coated tongue, is due to increase in the thickneso of the epithelium upon these papillae. Fur on the tongue is present in indigestion, constipation, high fever, contagious and infectious diseases, when large abscesses are present, or in the various forms of ptomain poisoning. The fungiform papillae are more numerous than the circumvallate papillae. They resemble small knobs, and are the red spots best observed on the sides and anterior portion of the dorsum of the tongue. The circumvallate papillae, numbering from eight to twelve, are situated at the junction of the posterior with the middle one-third of the dorsum of the tongue. They form a letter V, its apex being directed backward toward the foramen caecum. They are surrounded by an elevated margin or vallum, so that the papillae rest in pits. They contain the special taste organs. On the sides of the tongue the mucous membrane is smooth, except at the posterior part, just in front of the attachment of the anterior pillars of the fauces, where there are several parallel folds, known as the papilke foliata. The papillae foliata are best developed ir some of the lower animals, and contain taste organs. The under surface of the tongue, behind, receives the insertion of its extrinsic muscles, but in front it is free and covered by smooth, thin mucous membrane, through which the commencement of the lingual vein can be seen on each side of the median line. These veins are so superficial that they may be injured in division of the lingual frenum for tongue-tie. The glands of the tongue are found in the mucous membrane of the poste- rior third of the dorsum and at the sides of the organ. They are most numerous around the circumvallate papillae. Those in relation with the taste buds secrete a serous, and the others a mucous, fluid. Embedded in the substance of the lower surface of the tongue, near the tip of the organ, is a collection of mucous glands, about the size of a pea ; this is the so-called gland of Nuhn or Blandin ; occlusion of the duct of these glands may cause the formation of a retention cyst. Dissection.—To st\idy the arrangement of the muscles of the tongue it is necessary to remove the mucous membrane from" one side of it. The muscles of the tongue compose the greater part of its mass, and are divided into an extrinsic and an intrinsic group. The extrinsic muscles are the