318 SURGICAL ANATOMY. ring of bone around the optic foramen and tliat constituting the supra-orbital margin. Care should be taken to avoid injuring two structures—the pulley of the superior oblique muscle and the orbital periosteum. * If at the time the dissection of this portion of the body is begun the eyeball has collapsed, it should be inflated. After the periosteum has been opened, carry a ligature loosely around the optic nerve by means of an aneurysm needle; then insert a blowpipe between the optic nerve and its sheath, thrusting it almost, if not qviite, into the eyeball. Inflate until the ball is tense; then, while an assistant is slowly withdrawing the blowpipe, draw the ligature tight. The eyeball is preferably inflated from the front, this procedure being less difficult, more successful, and allowing reinflation when necessary. In this method a sharp needle is introduced obliquely at the sclero-corneal junction. The blow- pipe is then inserted through the puncture, and, after the eyeball is distended, withdrawn. The valvular character of the incision is sufficient to prevent rapid escape of the air. Orbital Periosteum or Periorbita.—The orbital roof having been removed, the periosteum comes into view. It incloses the structures which fill the orbit, and is but loosely attached to the bony walls. It is continuous posteriorly with the endosteal laj^er of the dura mater through the optic foramen and the sphenoid fissure. Anteriorly the periorbita divides at the orbital margins into two lamelhe —one is continuous with the periosteum on the facial surface of the bones which form those margins, and the other blends with the palpebral fascia of the eyelids. Dissection.—Two incisions are now made through the periosteum. One is transverse, and runs parallel to the supra-orbital ridge ; the other is longitudinal, and runs antero-posteriorly from the optic foramen to the middle of the first inci- sion. Either a very sharp knife must be used, or else a nick should be made in the periosteum and the rest of the cutting done with scissors or with a knife in the trough of a small grooved director. The two flaps thus formed should be carefully turned aside, gently separating them from the underlying structures. Further dissection is much facilitated by drawing forward the eyeball and retaining it in position with a suture or hooks, taking care not to jiuncture the eyeball, and allow tlie escape of its contained air. Structures Exposed by Removal of the Periosteum.—The orbital fat, orbital fascia, and frontal nerve are exposed as soon as the flaps of periosteum are reflected. Careful removal of some of the orbital fat will demonstrate a number of structures. In tlie median line the frontal nerve is readily demonstrable without dissec- tion. It lies ujion the levator i)alpebrfe superioris muscle, and its anterior portion is accompanied l)v the supra-orbital artery.