SURGICAL ANATOMY. 592 inches, or from four to five centimeters, from the anus. Its size and consistency are more satisfactorily perceived when the bladder is at least half full, 'ae prostate gland under these circumstances l)eing pressed downward toward the rectum and brought within more ready reach of the finger. The bas-fond of the bladder is felt immediately beyond the prostate as a soft and somewhat elastic structure at a distance of two and one-half inches, or six centimeters, from the anus. When the bladder is distended, the finger, intro- duced into the rectum and placed in contact with the base of the bladder, can detect fluctuation when the fingers of the other hand are tapping over the hypo- gastric region. The seminal vesicles may be felt beyond the prostate gland as two soft oblong bodies at the sides of the bas-fond of the bladder; they are about two inches, or five centimeters, in length, and one-half of an inch, or twelve milli- meters, in width. They are more satisfactorily palpated when the bladder is full. From the relation which the seminal vesicles hold to the rectum it follows that during a constipated defecation the pressure against the vesicles may be sufficient to cause the escape of some of their contents through the urethra. If this occurs in a nervous individual, it is likely to lead him to believe that he is suffering from spermatorrhea. Through the anterior wall of the rectum, between the level of the internal sphincter ani muscle and that of the prostate gland, the track of the membranous portion of the urethra can be felt. It is important to remember this when attempting to pass an instrument into the bladder in obstruction of this portion of the urethra, as the finger in the rectum may act as a safe director and assist in locating the point of obstruction. In children the prostate gland is rudimentary, and the wall of the urethi-a at this point is less resistant, and, consequently, in passing an instrument into the bladder there is danger of perforating the urethra. The larger semilunar folds of mucous membrane in the lower part of the rectum (especially the one projecting from the right side of the posterior wall), as described by Mr. Houston, are sometimes three or four in number, and frequently become the site of ulcerative inflammation ; they may be easily detected by the finger. Division of the muscular fibers forming the floor of the ulcer may be necessary in order to effect a cure of the ulcerative process. The ischio-rectal foss?e, which are on each side of the rectum, can be palpated througli the rectum, thus affording a means of early detection of inflammation in these fossae. Dissection.—Having made the digital examination of the rectum as directed, the lower part of the bowel is moderately distended with rags, cotton, or oakum, and the margins of the anus are brought together with sutures. In the dissection of the perineum, as in that of the abdominal walls, it is })referable to raise the