92 SURGICAL ANATOMY. muscle and parallel with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone; and the third or ascending portion, between the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. The first or oblique portion lies in the superior carotid triangle, and runs upward and inward to the vipper border of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, resting upon the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx and the internal laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. Thence it passes beneath the hyo-glossus, the pos- terior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle, emerging from the superior carotid triangle and entering the submaxillary triangle. This portion of the vessel is crossed l^y the hypo-glossal nerve and lingual vein, and gives off the supra-hyoid branch. The second or horizontal portion runs beneath the hyo- glossus muscle. (See description of submaxillary triangle.) The third or ascend- ing portion runs beneath the anterior border of the hyo-glossus on the outer aspect of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and runs fonvard to the tip of the tongue, terminating as the ranine artery; the terminal portion of the lingual artery is separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane which lines it. (See description of submaxillary triangle.) The lingual vein is seen crossing the first portion of the lingual artery with the hypo-glossal nerve. It runs over the external carotid artery and opposite the greater cornu of the hyoid bone empties into the internal jugular vein separately, or by a common trunk with the facial vein and a branch of the superior th3'roid vein. These veins and their common trunk may cause some difficulty in ligation of the common carotid or first portion of the lingual arter3^ The facial artery (external maxillarj') arises from the external carotid above the lingual artery, passes upward beneath the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscle and the submaxillary gland, being embedded in a groove on the under surface of the latter; it then curves upward over the body of the lower jaw, reaching the face at the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, where the artery can be compressed and its pulsations readily felt. It consists of two portions, a cervical and a facial. The Branches given off from the cervical portion of the facial artery are the ascending or inferior palatine, the tonsillar, the submaxillary, the submental, and the muscular. The ascending or inferior palatine artery occasionally arises separately from the external carotid artery. It ascends between the internal and external carotid arteries, tlien runs between the stylo-glossus and stylo-})haryngeus muscles, and finally between tlie internal pterygoid muscle and the superior constrictor muscle of the ])harynx. Reaching the levator palati muscle, it divides into two branches: one, the palatine, follows the course of the levator palati muscle to supply the soft palate, and anastomoses with the ascending palatine artery of the opposite side, the