THE ORBIT. 327 held in position by the attachments of orbital fascia, and the globe is held in the socket chiefly by the rectus muscles. After excision of the eyeball the muscles of the orbit are able to move the stump through their attachments to the capsule of Tenon. The frontal nerve.—Of the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the lacrymal, the nasal, and the frontal, the last mentioned is by far the largest, and can be regarded as the continuation of the main trunk. It gains entrance to the orbit by way of the sphenoid fissure, lying external and on a plane slightly inferior to the fourth nerve. It then passes forward upon the levator palpebrae superioris muscle, between it and the orbital periosteum. At a point about midway between the sphenoid, fissure and the supra-orbital notch it divides into its terminal branches—the supra-orbital and the supra-troclilear. The supra-orbital nerve continues forward in the line of the frontal nerve, and with the supra-orbital artery leaves the orbit by way of the supra-orbital foramen or notch. It then turns upward on the forehead, and, dividing into an internal and an external branch, supplies the scalp as far back as the lambdoid suture. At the supra-orbital foramen it gives off a few filaments to the upper eyelid. The supra-trochlear nerve runs toward the inner side of the orbit, and, as its name implies, passes over the pulley of the superior oblic|ue muscle. There it gives off a twig which communicates with the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. It then passes out of the orbit accompanied by the frontal artery, gives a few twigs to the inner part of the upper eyelid, supplies the structures around the inner canthus of the eye and root of the nose, and sends a few filaments to the lining membrane of the frontal sinus. The lacrymal nerve is tho smallest branch of the ophthalmic division. It enters the orbit through the sphenoid fissure external to and slightly below the frontal nerve. It then courses along the outer wall of the orbit above the upper margin of the external rectus muscle accompanied by the lacrymal artery-. Just behind the lacrymal gland it forms a loop of communication with the temporal branch of the orbital or temporo-malar nerve. From this loop and the immediate portion of the nerve, twigs are given off which enter the lacrymal gland. The remainder of the nerve continues forward, pierces the palpebral fascia, and supplies the skin and conjunctiva around the outer canthus of the eyelids. The fourth, pathetic, or trochlear nerve enters the orbit through the inner end of the sphenoid fissure, occupying the highest position of all the structures which traverse it, and lying above and to the inner side of the frontal nerve. It is the smallest of all the cranial nerves. It passes over the origin of the levator palpebrse superioris muscle, lies to the inner side of the frontal nerve, and. enters