621 MALE PERINEUM. fascia in the angle of divergence of the recto-vesical and obturator fasciae. Its anterior fibers pass backward and downward around the lateral aspect of the pros- tate gland to be inserted into the central tendon of the perineum, and have been termed the levator prostata. Its intermediate fibers pass downward along the side of the rectum, are inserted into the side of the rectum, and interlace with the fibers of the external sphincter ani muscle. Its posterior fibers pass downward and inward and are inserted into the side of the lower part of the coccyx and the fibrous raphe connecting the coccyx with the rectum. Nerve Supply.—From the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve and fourth sacral nerve. Action.—It elevates the pelvic floor .and the coccyx, thus compressing the abdominal and pelvic viscera and aiding in the expulsion of the contents of the rectum and bladder. Dissection.—The rectum is to be displaced backward, after dividing the ante- rior and middle fibers of the levator ani muscle and the recto-vesical fascia, to expose the prostate gland, the neck and base of the bladder, the seminal vesicles, the terminal portions of the spermatic ducts, or vasa deferentia, the ejaculatory ducts, and the junction of the ureters with the bladder. Lateral Lithotomy.—The first or superficial incision extends from the left of the median line, just behind the perineal center, backward and outward to a point between the anus and the tuberosity of the" ischium and one-third nearer to the tuberosity than to the anus. The structures divided in this incision are : Skin ; superficial fascia (both layers) ; the transverse perineal muscle, vessels, and nerve ; the base of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament; and branches of the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. In the second or deep incision Jie knife is engaged in the groove in the staff, and, with its edge toward the tuberosity of the left ischium, is carried through the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra. This incision divides- the compressor urethrte muscle, the membranous urethra, the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, some of the anterior fibers of the levator ani muscle, part of the left lobe of the prostate gland with part of its investing capsule and plexus of veins, and the neck of the bladder. The struc- tures especially to be avoided in the superficial incision are the artery of the bulb, the rectum, and the internal pudic artery. The deep incision is not carried back- ward far enough to divide the entire breadth of the prostate, as this would be fol- lowed by infiltration of urine into the subperitoneal connective tissue of the pelvis, and would expose the patient to the risk of cellulo-peritonitis. The ejaculatory duct should not be wounded. Both lateral and median perineal lithotomy in elderly men are likely to be followed by considerable venous bleeding from wounds of the prostatic plexus of veins; in these cases it is safer immediately to