107 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. of the floor of the triangle, as well as the greater part of the floor of the mouth, will be completely exposed. The mylo-hyoid is a triangularly shaped muscle, with its base at the lower jaw and its apex at the hyoid bone ; it unites along the middle line with the mylo- hyoid muscle of the opposite side. It is sometimes termed the diaphragm of the mouth, or the upper diaphragm. It arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge (internal oblique line) of the lower jaw, its origin extending from the symphysis as far backward as the last molar tooth. The posterior fibers are inserted into the body of the hyoid bone ; the middle and anterior fibers into the median fibrous raphe, where they join the fibers of the opposite muscle. Its lower or cutaneous surffice has the anterior belly of the digastric muscle, the supra-hyoid aponeurosis, the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery, the submental vessels, and the submaxillary glands in relation with it. The duct of the submaxillary gland winds around its free posterior border. In relation with its deep or buccal surface are the genio-hyoid muscle, part of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the deep part of the submaxillary gland, Wharton's duct, the hypo-glossal and gustatory nerves, the submaxillary ganglion, the sublingual gland, the ranine and sublingual arteries, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. Nerve Supply.—From the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve. Blood Supply. From the submental branch of the facial artery. Action.—When both muscles act conjointly from their point of origin they elevate the hyoid bone, the larynx, and the floor of the mouth, preparatory to swallowing ; when acting from their hyoid attachment they assist in depressing the jaw and in opening the mouth. Dissection.—Divide the facial vessels immediately below the lower jaw, and displace them upward with the superficial part of the submaxillary gland, leaving in situ the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle and has the submaxillary ganglion in contact with it. Divide the small vessels and nerves on the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, detaching it from the lower jaw and the mylo-hyoid muscle of the opposite side, and displace it down- ward. This exposes the structures in relation with the upper surface of the mylo- hyoid muscle. The genio-hyoid is a slender muscle which arises from the lower of the two lateral (genial) tubercles on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and is inserted into the middle of the front of the body of the hyoid bone. It is covered by the mylo-hyoid muscle, rests upon the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and mesially against the genio-hyoid muscle of the opposite side. Nerve Supply.—From the hypo-glossal nerve. Blood Supply.—From the lingual artery.