404 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Hairs and sebaceous glands are found in the cartilaginous portion of the meatus, as well as slightly modified sweat glands which secrete the cerumen, or ear wax. JkVhen the cerumen, or wax, is secreted too rapidly, the meatus becomes occluded, and deafness and tinnitus aurium result. No hairs or glands are found in the osseous portion of the external auditory meatus. In otitis externa the skin of the external auditory meatus is inflamed, and there may be a purulent discharge from that canal. Occlusion of the external auditory meatus may occur as a congenital defect, or from the presence of polypoid growths arising from granulations projecting through a perforation in the membrana tympani in cln^onic otitis media, from exostoses from the bony wall, from foreign bodies, or from an excessive quantity of cerumen. Foreign bodies may remain in the external auditory meatus for many years without causing injury or inconvenience, and they may not be discovered until otoscopic examination for some condition in no way connected with the presence of the foreign body. Unskilful attempts at removal have inflicted nearly all the injury following the presence of these foreign bodies. No attempt should be made to remove a foreign body until it is seen in the meatus. Insects or other foreign bodies may be removed by syringing gently with a slender stream of warm water. If this fail, a small hook, which can be made of a hair-pin, should be inserted and kept in view, the canal being well illuminated. If the walls of the canal :are swollen, removal of the foreign body should be deferred until the swelling has subsided. Relations.—A portion of the parotid gland is in relation with the lower and anterior wall of the external auditory meatus; this explains how parotid tumors can cause narrowing of that canal, and how abscesses of the parotid gland might open into it, the fissures in the cartilage affording a favorable situation for perforation. Tlie anterior wall of the meatus is also in relation with the condyle of the lower jaw, so that firm closure of the mouth has a tendency to narrow the lumen of tlie meatus. Wlien the condyle is driven forcibly back- ward, as by a blow or a fall on the chin, the bony wall of the meatus may be fractured. The po.sterior and uj)i)er walls of the canal are formed by parts of the mastoid and of the squamous portioii of the temporal bone, and often only a thin, osseous partition separates it from the mastoid cells, so that caries of the osseous wall of the external auditory meatus may be followed by mastoid disease. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the external auditory meatus is derived from branches of the internal maxillary, i)ostcrior auricular, and super- ficial temporal arteries.