U7 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. part of the subclavian artery opposite the thyroid axis. It passes downward beneath the clavicle, the subclavius muscle, and the subclavian vein, and enters the chest between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura. At its origin it is crossed from without inward by the phrenic nerve. Its further course is described under the Dissection of the Thorax. The accompanying veins of the internal mammary artery, two in number, unite to form a common trunk which empties into the innominate vein. The Superior Intercostal Artery arises from the upper margin of the second portion of the subclavian artery, and occasionally arises from the first portion upon the left side. It arches backward and a little upward over the pleura, and then descends behind it, giving off the profunda cervicis artery ; it then passes in front of the neck of the first, and sometimes of the second, rib, giving off the arte- ries of the first, and at times of the second, intercostal space, and a posterior branch, which is distributed to the muscles of the back and to the spinal cord and its membranes. In front of the neck of the first rib it lies between the first thoracic sympathetic ganglion on the inner side, and the anterior branch of the first thor- acic nerve on the outer side. Its Branches are the deep cervical, the first inter- costal, and the arteria aberrans. The deep cervical artery (profunda cervicis) passes backward between the seventh and eighth cervical nerves, and then between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, internal to the middle and pos- terior scalene muscles ; thence it passes up the back of the neck between the com- plexus and semi-spinalis colli muscles, Avhich it supplies, and anastomoses with the arteria princeps cervicis and branches of the ascending cervical and ve^'tebral arteries. The deep cervical vein begins in the suboccipital triangle, usually receives the occipital vein, accompanies the arteria princeps cervicis, and then the profunda cervicis artery, and empties into the vertebral or innominate vein. The first intercostal artery has a distribution in the first intercostal space corresponding with that of the arteries in the other intercostal spaces. The arteria aberrans, inconstant, arises from the inner side of the right superior intercostal artery, and passes downward behind the esophagus, supplying adjacent structures and sometimes joining a small ascending branch of the aorta, opposite the third thoracic vertebra. The miastomosis between the superior intercostal and the occipital artery performs an important part in the development of the collateral circulation after ligation of the common carotid artery. The veins which correspond to the superior intercostal arteries are the right