DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 145 Its branches to the muscles of the neck communicate Avith the muscular branches of the vertebral arter}', while others enter the intervertebral foramina to reach the bodies of the vertebrc© and the spinal cord and its meninges. It anastomoses with the veretebral, ascending pharyngeal, and branches of the occipital artery. It sends a branch to the phrenic nerve. The inferior laryngeal artery accompanies the recurrent laryngeal nerve, sup- plies the muscles and mucous membrane of the larynx, and anastomoses with the superior laryngeal artery. The tracheal branches ramify upon the trachea, the lower ones anastomosing with the bronchial arteries. The esopliaf/eal branches supply the esophagus. ■ One of these is often large, runs parallel with the continuation of the inferior thyroid artery, and may be mis- taken for it. The muscular branches supply the muscles of the lower anterior part of the neck. The inferior thyroid artery is not accompanied by the corresponding vein, which lies at the side of the median line of the neck. (See Dissection of Front of Neck.) Ligation of the inferior thyroid artery.—This is performed either where the artery lies between the internal jugular vein and the inner border of the anterior scalene muscle, or to the inner side of the carotid sheath as it passes to the deep surface of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland just below the level of the cricoid cartilage. To secure the inferior thyroid artery along the inner border of the anterior scalene muscle make an incision similar to that made in ligation of the vertebral artery, carrying the aneurysm needle from within outward away from the vertebral vein. To secure the inferior thyroid artery on the inner side of the carotid sheath make an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The supra-scapular artery (transversalis humeri), smaller than the transver- salis colli artery, coarses outward across the lower part of the neck. It first passes beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle and over the phrenic nerve and lower part of the anterior scalene muscle; then it runs behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, crosses the third part of the subclavian artery, and passes beneath the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid and the anterior border of the trapezius muscle, to the superior border of the scapula, where it passes over the transverse ligament of that bone to reach the supra-spinous fossa. The supra-scapular nerve, which joins the artery just before it dips under the omo-hyoid muscle, passes beneath the transverse ligament, and through the supra-scapular notch. In the supra-spinous fossa the artery lies close to the bone, and supplies the supra-spinatus muscle ; at 11—10