66 SURGICAL ANATOMY. is accompanied by the arteria comes nervi plirenici, a branch of the internal mam- mary artery. The origin of the phrenic nerve is mainly from the fourth cervical segment of the spinal cord, which is situated behind the upper part of the body of the' fourth cervical vertebra, and the fact that this nerve is the one which innervates the diaphragm, explains the fatality due to injury of the spinal cord through fractures and dislocations of the upper cervical vertebrge. The communicantes hypoglossi (communicantes noni) arise from the second and third cervical nerves, pass downward to the outer side of the internal jugular vein, then cross in front of the vein, and join the descendens hypoglossi, a branch of the hypo-glossal nerve, in front of the sheath of the blood vessels, forming the loop known as the ansa hypoglossi. The descendens and communicantes hypoglossi supply the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx—namely, the sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles. This loop (ansa) may be behind the internal jugular vein, and within or outside the sheath of the vessels. The muscular branches of the internal series arise from the first, second, third, and fourth cervical nerves; they supply the rectus capitis anticus major and minor, rectus lateralis, and longus colli muscles. The communicating branches of the internal series connect the cervical plexus with the sympathetic, pneumogastric, and hypo-glossal nerves. The muscular branches of the external series supply the sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, the levator anguli scapula?, and the scalenus medius muscle; the branch to the sterno-mastoid muscle arises from the second cervical nerve ; the branches to the levator anguli scapulse, trapezius, and scalenus medius muscles from the third and fourth cervical nerves. The communicating branches of the external series connect the cervical plexus with the spinal accessory nerve in the sterno-mastoid muscle, in the occipital triangle, and lastly beneath the trapezius muscle, forming the subtrapezial plexus. Pain in one or more of the areas supplied by the various sensory branches of the cervical nerves may be caused by caries of the cervical vertebrae. Irritation of these nerves produces pain or spasm of the muscles in the regions supplied by the posterior branches of the nerves, as well as in those supplied by the cervical and brachial plexuses. Next examine the carotid sheath and the structures in relation with it. The Carotid Sheath is formed l)v the division of the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia which passes beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, l)y the pre- vertebral and pretracheal fasciae. It is divided by septa into three compartments: