SURGICAL ANATOMY. 276 The hyaline cartilages of the larynx—namely, the thyroid, cricoid, aryte- noid, and cartilage triticea—frequently undergo ossification. AVhen any of the cartilages of the larynx are fractured, the patient should be pliced on his back, prohibited from talking, and fed through the rectum ; it may be necessary to practise intubation, laryngotomy, or tracheotomy. The Joints of the Larynx are the crico-thyroid and crico-aiytenoid. The crico-thyroid joints are formed by the articulation of the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage with the cricoid cartilage. They are lined by synovial membrane, and have capsular ligaments which are stronger posteriorly. Their movements are gliding of the cricoid cartilage upward and backward, and rotatory around a transverse axis. The crico-arytenoid joints are formed by the articulation of the cricoid carti- lage with the bases of the arytenoid cartilages. They have a capsular, a posterior crico-arytenoid, and a transverse or crico-arytenoid ligament; and each has a syno- vial membrane. The capsular ligament is loose and allows free movement. The posterior crico-arytenoid ligament arrests the forward movement of the arytenoid cartilage. The transverse or crico-arytenoid ligament connects the upper border of the cricoid cartilage with the internal angles of the arytenoid cartilages. The crico-arytenoid joints permit of the arytenoid cartilages gliding inward or outward or rotating around a vertical axis. These movements permit the vocal processes to rotate inward and the arytenoid cartilages to be drawn together, closing the rima glottidis, as in })honation ; or they allow the vocal processes to rotate outward and the arytenoid cartilages to be separated, thus opening the rima glottidis as in res- piration. The Ligaments of the Larynx not associated with the joints are the thyro- hyoid and crico-th}'roid membranes ; the thyro-hyoid ligaments, which have been described ; the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, described with the false vocal cords; and the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, described as the true vocal cords. In Laryngoscopic Examination the patient should sit at a higher level than the physician ; his tongue should be drawn forward so that the base of that organ will not hang backward over the epiglottis and superior aperture of the larynx ; his head should be thrown backward so that the reflection of the interior of the larynx, instead of the image of the base of the tongue, will be seen. When the mirror has been introduced into the oro-pharynx, its handle must usually be depressed. The epiglottis will be seen in its upper part; the arytenoid cartilages, cartilages of Santorini and AVrisberg, in its lower part; the false vocal cords, ven- tricles, and true vocal cords, on their corresponding sides ; and the anterior wall of the trachea and, occasionally, its bifurcation may be seen. The true vocal cords