THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 419 Rivini), which is filled in by a thinner and looser portion of the membrane, known as the membrana flaccida, or ShrajyueU's membrane. The membrana tympani consists of three layers : an outer cuticular covering; a middle, fibrous layer; and an inner, mucous lining. Inspection.—When viewed through a speculum during life, the membrana tympani is of a pearly gray color, and appears smooth and polished. Extending downward and backward with its apex at the umbo is a cone of light, which is of value in the diagnosis of disease of the tympanum and membrana tympani. The handle of the malleus and its short process, and, posterior to the handle of the malleus, the long process of the incus, can frequently be seen through the membrane. From the short process of ' the malleus two folds extend to the margins of the notch of Rivini; these are known as the anterior and the posterior fold of the membrane, and between them is the membrana flaccida, so named on account of its laxity. Owing to this laxity perforations of the membrana flaccida give rise to but slight loss of hearing. The remainder and major portion of the drum is known as the m,embrana tensa. Perforation' or rupture of the membrana tympani is frequently produced by traumatism, as by slender foreign bodies accidentally pushed far into the external auditory canal, or by the escape of pus in otitis media. Perforation of the mem- brana flaccida occurs more commonly when the disease is confined to the attic; perforation of the posterior portion, when the disease is confined to the mastoid antrum ; and perforation of the lower portion of the membrana tensa is most frequent on account of its low position. Owing to the inelasticity of the mem- brane, perforations do not gape much. Traumatic perforations heal readily, whereas those associated with suppurative otitis media seldom close. Granulation tissue from the inflamed mucous membrane of the tympanum projecting through the perforation forms polypoid groxvths Avhich conceal the opening, and sometimes hide the tympanic membrane. These growths are associated with copious sup- puration. Paracentesis of the tympanum, or puncture of the tympanic membrane, is frequently practised by the surgeon to relieve tension and allow of the discharge of pus. The point selected is in the lower or subumbilical portion of the membrane, or wherever the bulging is greatest. Paracentesis of the upper portion of the mem- brane is attended by danger of injuring the malleus, incus, or chorda tympani nerve, and paracentesis of the lower portion of the membrane must be cautiously performed, for the inner wall of the tympanum is situated only from two milli- meters to four millimeters, or from one-twelfth to one-sixth of an inch, internal to the tympanic membrane.