LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. 185 mental veins being avoided. The sterno-mastoid muscle should be displaced out- ward and the omo-hyoid muscle downward, and the pulsations of the artery are felt. The middle sterno-mastoid artery and the superior and middle thyroid veins should be avoided, if possible, and the internal jugular vein and descendens hypo- glossi nerve should be avoided by opening the inner wall of the carotid sheath. By holding up first one edge of the opening in the sheath and then the other, the sheath can be gently separated from the artery with an aneurysm needle. The needle should be passed from without inward, threaded, and withdrawn. To tie the common carotid artery in the inferior carotid triangle, the patient should be placed in the same position as for the higher ligation. The incision, which is about three inches in length, should be made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, beginning at the level of the cricoid cartilage, and extending almost to the sterno-clavicular articulation. Skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and superficial vessels and nerves are divided. The anterior jugular vein and the vein which connects it with the facial or submental vein should be avoided. The superficial layer of the deep fascia is divided, and the sterno-mastoid muscle drawn outward, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles inward. The sheath is opened on the inner side, and the needle passed from with- out inward. The structures which are to be avoided in the operation are the ante- rior jugular vein ; its tributary, which runs beneath the platysma myoides muscle parallel with the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; the nerves from the ansa hypoglossi to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the internal jugular vein, the inferior thyroid veins, tiie inferior thyroid artery, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. On the left side the internal jugular vein overlaps the artery at the lower part of the neck and renders the operation more difficult. Collateral Circulation.—The collateral circulation, after ligation of the common carotid artery, is established by the anastomoses of the following arteries: Proximal Side. Distal Side. Branches of the external carotid artery of the opposite side with Branches of the external carotid artery of the same side. Vertebral artery of same side and opposite internal carotid artery and vertebral artery with Internal carotid artery of the same side through circle of Willis. Inferior thyroid artery, thyroidea ima artery (if present) with Superior thyroid artery. Ascending cervical artery Superficial cervical artery Deep cervical artery with Princeps cervicis artery. Ascending cervical artery Vertelsral artery with with Ascending pharyngeal artery. Occipital artery.