466 SURGICAL ANATOMY. body, the lateral root arising })rincipally from the accessory nucleus, and the mesial root from the chief nucleus and Deiters' nucleus. Its superficial origin is external to that of the facial nerve—from the groove between the olivary and restiform boclies of the medulla oblongata. From the close relation between the facial and auditory nerves at their exit from the side of the medulla oblongata, they have been described as two separate portions of the seventh cranial nerve, and on account of their difference in consistencv, the facial portion was called the portio dura and the auditory portion the portio mollis. The auditor}^ nerve is the nerve of the special sense of hearing, and supplies the internal ear. The lateral root is continued into the cochlear nerve, supplies the cochlea, and is the nerve of the sense of hearing. The mesial root is known as the vestibular nerve and sup- plies the vestibule and semicircular canals; it is associated with maintenance of equilibrium of the body. The Ninth Cranial or Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve arises from the floor of the fourth ventricle in connnon with the pneumogastric nerve and the accessory por- tion of the spinal accessory nerve. It emerges from the same groove in the medulla oblongata as the facial and auditory nerves, but below them. It is distributed to the tA'mpanum, the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, the tonsil, and the back of the tongue. The glosso-pharyn- geal is a sensory and motor nerve, as well as the nerve of the sjiecial sense of taste, as it supplies the circumvallate papillae at the back of the tongue. The Tenth Cranial or Pneumogastric Nerve (nervus vagus or par vagum), the longest of the cranial nerves, commences within the cranium, extends through the neck and chest, and terminates in the upper part of the abdomen. It arises deeply from the floor of the fourth ventricle, and superficially from the side of the medulla oblongata by ten or fifteen filaments, which emerge from the medulla oblongata through the groove between the lateral column and the restiform body and below the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The pneumogastric nerve contains both motor and sensory fibers. It supplies the dura mater, the external ear, the pharynx, the larynx, the esophagus, the trachea, the lungs, the heart, and some abdominal viscera—viz., the liver and stomach. The Eleventh Cranial or Spinal Accessory Nerve consists of two portions— an vipper or accessory, and a lower or spinal. The accessory portion, the smaller, arises deeply from the floor of the fourtli ventricle in connnon with the ninth and tenth cranial nerves. Superficially, it arises by fine filaments from the side of the medulla oblongata below the origin of the pneumogastric nerve, and emerges with it through the same groove. The spinal portion, the larger, arises by several filaments from the side of the spinal cord, between the liga- mentum denticulatum and the i)Osterior roots of the spinal nerves as low down as