187 LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. ficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, superficial layer of the deep fascia, anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and the sheath of the vessels; it is crossed by the hypo-glossal nerve and lingual and facial veins. Higher in its course it is crossed by the stylo-liyoid and posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and enters the parotid gland. To its inner side are the hyoid bone, the pharynx, the superior laryngeal and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, part of the parotid gland, and the ramus of the lower jaw. To its outer side, at its origin, is the internal carotid artery. Behind it are the internal carotid artery, from which it is separated above by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and part of the parotid gland. The superior laryngeal nerve is also behind the artery. The position of the patient should be the same as in ligature of the common carotid artery, the shoulders being elevated, the neck extended, and the face turned slightly to the opposite side. The incision should extend from the angle of the lower jaw dowuAvard along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle for about two and one-half inches, so that the greater cornu of the hyoid bone will be just above the center of the incision. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, some cutaneous vessels and nerves, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided. The sterno-mastoid muscle is drawn outward, and the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, the hj^po-glossal nerve, and lingual and facial veins located. The sheath is opened, and the needle is passed from without inward. The needle should be kept close to the artery, thus avoiding the superior laryngeal nerve, Avhich passes beneath the artery. Collateral Circulation.—The collateral circulation, after ligature of the external carotid artery, is established by the anastomoses between the branches of this artery and the corresponding branches of the opposite external carotid artery. Irregularities.—The external carotid artery may be absent, the branches of that artery arising from the common carotid artery, which continues upward as the internal carotid artery. It may be a short trunk or arise at a higher or lower level than normally. Two or more of its branches—as the superior thyroid, lingual and facial arteries—may arise from it by a common trunk. Some of its lower branches may arise from the common carotid artery. Occasionally it gives origin to additional branches—viz., the superior laryngeal and middle sterno- mastoid branches of the superior thyroid artery, the ascending palatine and tonsillar branches of the facial artery, the superior sterno-mastoid branch of the occipital artery, and the transverse facial branch of the superficial temporal artery. The superior thyroid artery is tied preparatory to removal of one-half of the thyroid body, and may be ligatured to arrest the growth of a goiter. It arises from the external carotid artery just below the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and runs