616 SURGICAL ANATOMY. triangular ligament, finally to pierce the anterior layer and run along the outer side of the dorsal artery. It supplies the integument of the penis. The perineal nerve, the shorter and larger of the two terminal divisions of the pudic nerve, is seen in the outer part of the ischio-rectal fossa. It divides into cutaneous and muscular branches. The cutaneous branches are the anterior and posterior superficial })erineal nerves, and have already been described. The mus- cular branches supply twigs to the bulb and to the conij^ressor urethrse, levator ani, transverse perineal, accelerator urinte, and erector penis muscles. The subpubic ligament is situated below the symphysis and bodies of the pubes, and between the rami of the pubes laterally. Its apex is directed upward and is fused with the inter-articular fibro-cartilage; its base is directed toward the membranous urethra. Between the subpubic and triangular ligaments is a small aperture for the passage of the dorsal vein of the penis. Dissection.—Remove the compressor urethras muscle to exjDose the superior layer of the triangular ligament. The superior, deep, or posterior layer of the triangular ligament is derived from the obturator division of the pelvic iascia, and is the fascial partition situated between the compressor urethrse and levator ani muscles. It is pierced by the membranous urethra, the internal pudic artery and veins, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. Laterally, it is attached to the iscliio-]jubic rami; anteriorly, to the subpubic ligament, from which it is partly separated by the dorsal vein of the penis; and posteriorly, it blends with the deep surface of the superficial layer of the triangular ligament at the posterior margin of the compressor urethrte muscle. Anterior to the anterior margin of the levator ani muscle the deep layer of the ligament is adherent to the recto-vesical fascia, and especially to that part forming the capsule of the jirostate gland. This layer of the triangular ligament is thinner than the superficial layer, or triangular ligament proper, and the descriptions of the perineum would be ' less obscure and more accurate if the deep layer were considered the anterior part of the anal fascia. The anal fascia could then be described as adherent to the deep surface of the posterior portion of the triangular ligament, and as composed of an anterior and a posterior portion. Dissection.—Remove the posterior or deep layer of the triangular ligament and the anal fascia to expose the inferior surface of the levator ani muscle. The Levator Ani Muscle is a thin sheet of muscle which lies superficial to the recto-vesical fascia. Its anterior fibers arise from the lower portion of the ])os- lerior surface of the bod}'^ of the pubis, between the recto-vesical fascia and the deep layer of the triangular ligament, and external to the pubo-vesical muscle ; its posterior fibers arise from the pelvic surface of the spine of the iscliium ; and the intermediate fibers have an aponeurotic origin from the white line of the pelvic