450 SURGICAL ANATOMY. artery, arises from that vessel near its termination (sometimes this branch niay arise from the basilar artery); it winds backward around the medulla oblongata, between the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves; it then runs over the inferior cerebellar peduncle to the under surface of the cerebellum, there to divide into two branches—an outer and an inner; the outer branch traverses the under surface of the hemisphere of the cerebellum, which it supplies, and run- ning along the outer margin of the cerebellum, it anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery; the inner branch, practically the continuation of the main f vessel, runs in the groove between the hemisphere of the cerebellum and the vermiform process, both of which it sup])lies. The posterior inferior cerebellar artery also sends branches to the fourth ventricle, and anastomoses with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and with the superior cerebellar artery. The Basilar Artery, formed by the union of the two vertebral arteries at the posterior border of the pons, runs along the median line of the anterior, or lower, surface of the pons as far as its anterior, or upper, border, where it divides into its two terminal branches—the posterior cerebrals. Running on each side of, and almost parallel with, the basilar artery, are the sixth, or abducent, nerves, ^\^ith the brain in situ, the vessel lies on the dorsal surface of the body of the sphenoid bone. Its branches, named from behind forward, are the transverse, the internal auditory, the anterior inferior cerebellar, the superior cerebellar, and the two terminal. The Transverse Arteries are numerous small branches which arise from the basilar upon each side, run in the direction their name indicates, and supply the I)ons and the adjacent portion of the cerebrum. The Internal Auditory Arteries, one on each side, spring from the basilar artery and may arise from the transverse arteries. Each accompanies the corre- sponding auditory nerve into the internal auditory meatus, where it runs between the facial and auditory nerves, and, reaching the bottom of the meatus, passes into the internal ear. The Anterior Inferior Cerebellar Arteries, one on each side, arise from the . basilar artery near its middle. Each artery passes outward and backward over the pons and the middle crus of the cerebellum. It terminates at the fore ])art of the under surface of the hemisphere of the cerebellum, to which it is dis- tributed. It anastomoses with the po.sterior inferior cerebellar artery. The Superior Cerebellar Arteries, one on each side, arise from the basilar so near its bifurcation as to be sometimes mistaken for the posterior cerebral arteries. The superior cerebellar artery is separated from the posterior cerebral artery hy tlie oculo-rnotor nerve. The superior cerebellar arteries pass outward around the crura cerebri, lying nearly parallel with the pathetic nerves, and reach the