562 SURGICAL ANATOMY. along the posterior border of the hemisphere, and is joined to the posterior superior lobe of the opposite side by the folium cacuminis. Dissection.—Displace the medulla oblongata forward, and expose the infe- rior vermiform process at the bottom of the vallecula. The Inferior Vermiform Process is divided into four lobes, named, from before backward, the nodule, the uvula, the pyramid, and the tuber valvulse. The nodule, designated by Malacarne the laminated tubercle, is the anterior extrem- ity of the inferior vermiform process, and projects into the fourth ventricle, form- ing a part of the roof of that ventricle. It is connected upon both sides to the flocculi, upon the under surface of the hemispheres, by a thin, semilunar layer of white substance, the posterior or inferior medullary velum. The uvula, situated directly behind the nodule, is an elongated lobe compressed laterally, and is con- nected on each side to the amygdaloid lobe, or tonsil, by an indented strip of gray matter, the furrowed band. The pyramid, situated behind the uvula, is the largest of the divisions of the process, and connects the biventral lobes of the hemispheres. The tuber valvulae, the posterior extremity of the inferior vermiform process, connects the two inferior posterior and the two slender lobes of the hemispheres. The Under Surface of Each Hemisphere of the cerebellum, which is convex and conforms to the occi})ital fossa in which it rests, is divided into five lobes, named, from before backward, the flocculus, the amygdala, or tonsil, the digastric or biventral, the slender, and the posterior inferior. The flocculus, the smallest lobe, is situated at the anterior part of the hemisphere, between the digastric or biventral lobe and the middle peduncle of the cere1)ellum, in the line of the great horizontal fissure of the cerebellum. The amygdala, or tonsil, is situated to the inner side of the digastric or biventral lobe, and between that lobe and the vallec- ula. It is connected with the uvula by the furrowed band. The digastric or biven- tral, the largest lobe, lies behind the flocculus, and external to the amygdala and the pyramid ; it is connected with the digastric lobe of the other hemisphere by the pyramid. The slender lobe, or lobidus gracilis, lies immediately behind the digas- tric lobe, and external to the pyramid and the tuber valvulse. The posterior infe- rior lobe lies between the posterior border of the hemisphere and the slender lobe, and external to the tuber valvuhe. Dissection.—Cut away the amygdala on one side, or slice off the digastric and .slender lobes until the amygdala can be turned out; this will expo.se the fur- rowed band, the po.sterior medullary velum and the fossa, known as the " swal- low's nest" (nidus hirimdinis), which is indented by the po.sterior medullary velum, the nodule, and the uvula. Tlie Peduncles of the Cerebellum are the superior, the middle, and the inferior.