200 SURGICAL ANATOMY. and anterior belly of the digastric muscle, the partial loss of power in moving the lower jaw, and the dangers of infection and suppuration in so inaccessible a region as the pterygo-maxillary space. The inferior dental nerve may be resected at the mental foramen, in the inferior dental canal, or before it enters tliat canal. It is preferably resected before it enters the inferior dental canal, in order that all the dental and gingival fibers of the nerve can be included. This portion of the nerve can be reached by an incision through the cheek or through the mucous membrane of the mouth. The external incision is preferable because asepsis is an impossibility in wovands of the moutli, the external method is more easily performed, and the incision can be so located that the scar will not be prominent. The incision in the external method is angular and made along the posterior border of the ramus to the angle of the loAver jaw, and thence forward along the lower border of the lower jaw, each limb of the incision being about one inch in length. Only the skin and super- ficial fascia are divided in the first stage of the operation. Next divide the mas- seteric fascia and the platysma myoides muscle, exercising care to avoid injuring the buccal and supra-maxillary branches of the facial nerve and the parotid gland. The lower limb of the incision should not extend far enough forward to divide the facial artery or vein. The lower portion of the masseter muscle is separated from the ramus of the lower jaw with the periosteal elevator and the knife, and displaced upward. A small trephine is applied to the ramus midway between its anterior and posterior borders, and just above the level of the alveolar margin of the lower jaw. The trephine first divides the upper and thinner portion of the circle of bone ; the remainder of the incision through the bone must be completed with the chisel and elevator, so that the inferior dental vessels will not be injured. The inferior dental vessels and nerve are detected lying upon the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The nerve is separated from the vessels, drawn out with a blunt hook, and as much of it as ])0ssible resected. In neurectomy of the inferior dental nerve through the mouth, the upper teeth are widely separated from the lower with a gag, and a vertical incision about an inch long is made through the mucous membrane-along the inner margin of the anterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw. The anterior margin of the ramus is exposed, and the mucous membrane is separated from the ramus with a small periosteal elevator. Tlu^ lingual nerve is seen, the separation is extended a short distance further l)ackward, and the spine of bone (s))ine of Si)ix) just below the inferior dental foramen is located with the finger. This spine gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw ; this ligament hides from view the inferior dental vessels and nerve which lie between it and the ramus of the lower jaw. The internal lateral ligament is cautiously divided with long, slender scis-