210 SURGICAL AXAT03IY. mouth) is divided into two parts by the teeth and alveolar processes—viz., the ves- tibule and the mouth proper. • Tlie Vestibule is situated between the lips and cheeks externally, and the teeth and gums internally. The walls of the vestibule, except when it is dis- tended, are in contact. In front it ojjens ujion the face at the buccal orifice, and behind the last molar teeth it communicates with the mouth proi)er, even when the teeth are in contact, so that in tetanus or during treatment of fractures of the lower jaw a patient may be fed licjuids through a tube passed from the back part of the vestil)ule into the mouth proper. Under these circumstances a preferable method of feeding may be throvigh a catheter introduced through the nose. The Lips are composed of the skin, sui)erficial fascia, orbicularis oris muscle and the muscles inserted around it, areolar tissue, and mucous membrane. The first three layers of the lips—skin, superficial fascia, and muscular tissue—have been described with the face. The margins of the lips are covered with dry, red mucous meml)rane, which is continuous with the skin, and contains numerous vascular pa})illa' and touch corpuscles. Internally, the mucous membrane is reflected from the upper and lower lips upon the gums, and in the median line forms two folds—the frtenum labii superioris and fnenum labii inferioris. Along the line of junction of the skin and mucous membrane " fever blister," or herpes labialis, is very common. Through cicatricial contraction after burns of the lips and cheeks the buccal orifice may be much distorted. The deformity can be lessened, if not corrected, by plastic operation. The areolar tissue, or sulimucous layer, contains the coronary vessels, branches of the infra-orbital and mental nerves, and the labial glands. The coronary vessels completely encircle the buccal orifice near the free naargin of the lips, lying immediately superficial to the m,ucous membrane in the submucous layer. The labial glands are situated around the orifice of the mouth, in the sub- mucous layer of the lips. They are small lobulated bodies, about the size of a small pea, and their ducts open into the mouth. They secrete a mucous fluid. When the ducts of these glands l)ecome occluded, mucous retention cysts develop. Between the lips is the buccal orifice, which extends between the angles of the mouth. In harelip operations and after excision of a large segment of the lip in removing an epithelioma, tlie mobility and elasticity of the lii)s, particularly of the lower lip, allow approximation of the edges of the wound. The lymphatics from the median portion of the lower lip pass to a lymphatic gland situated just above the body of the hyoid bone ; tliose from the lateral por- tions pass to the submaxillary lymphatic glands, into which the lymphatics of the upper lip also em})ty.