THE ORBIT. 331 Action.—It raises the upper eyelid and retains it in that position. Tlie muscle relaxes, and the eyelid falls as one becomes sleepy. Nerve Supply.—From the superior division of the motor oculi nerve, a branch which pierces the superior rectus muscle. The superior oblique muscle takes its origin from the orbital roof at the upper and inner margins of the optic foramen. It extends as a fleshy belly along the upper and inner part of the orbital wall above the internal rectus muscle. It then narrows into 'a shining, slender tendon, which enters the ring-like pulley attached to the frontal bone. Leaving the pulley, the tendon changes its course to an outward and a backward direction. It then passes under the superior rectus muscle, and expands to be inserted into the sclera midway between the entrance of the optic nerve and the margin of the cornea, and between the superior rectus and external rectus muscles. The pulley or trochlea of the superior oblique muscle is a fibro-cartilaginous ring, which is attached by a fibrous plate to the trochlear fossa in the under surface of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The ring is lined by a synovial sheath, and this sheath is continued over its contained tendon. Chronic serous effusion into this synovial sheath sometimes exists in persons past middle life, and causes a cystic swelling at the upper and inner portion of the upper eyelid. Action.—It rotates the eyeball inward, and as the muscle is inserted into the posterior portion of the globe, it draws the cornea downward and slightly abducts it. It counteracts the tendency of the inferior rectus muscle to rotate the cornea outAvard, and the tendency of the superior and inferior recti muscles to adduct the cornea. Nerve Supply.—From the pathetic or fourth cranial nerve. Dissection.—Divide the frontal nerve and levator palpebrse superioris muscle, and dissect the latter free from the underlying structures. While dissecting up the levator palpebrse superioris muscle, a nerve filament should be observed which passes through the underlying muscle—the superior rectus—and enters the under surface of the posterior portion of the levator palpebree superioris muscle. This is the branch of the oculo-motor nerve, which supplies that muscle. The superior rectus muscle is now fully exposed. It arises from the upper portion of the anterior margin of the optic foramen, and becomes broader as it passes forward between the levator palpebree superioris muscle and the optic nerve. It is inserted by a thin, expanded tendon into the sclera, about one-fourth to one- third of an inch behind the upper margin of the sclero-corneal junction. Action.—It rotates the eyeball upward, in addition to adducting and rotating the cornea inward—i. e.,ii carries the cornea upward, ad ducts it, and slightly rotates it inward.