347 THE ORBIT. The Inferior Rectus Muscle arises from the lower margin of the optic foramen through the Hgament or tendon of Zinn. It jjasses forward along the floor of the orbit and below the optic nerve, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about one-fourth to one-third of an inch from the lower margin of the cornea. Action.—It depresses the cornea, adducts it, and rotates it outward. Nerve Supply.—From the inferior division of the motor oculi or third cranial nerve. The inferior rectus muscle can ])e better studied after the dissection of the vessels, the nerves, and the other muscles has been completed, and those structures have been removed. Ligament of Zinn.—By observation of the ocular surfaces of the origin of the four rectus muscles, it will be seen that these muscles arise from a common tendinous ring which is attached around the optic foramen. This common tendon may be divided into a superior and an inferior common tendon. The superior common tendon is attached to the upper margin and the upper outer part of the margin of the optic foramen, and gives origin to the superior rectus muscle, part of the internal rectus muscle, and the upper head of the external rectus muscle. The inferior common tendon, or ligament of Zinn, is attached to the lower part of the inner margin, the. lower margin and the lower part of the outer margin of the optic foramen, and gives origin to the inferior rectus muscle and part of the internal rectus muscle, and the lower head of the external rectus muscle. Dissection.—The inferior oblique muscle is next exposed. Its position and relations differ much from those of the other orbital muscles, and it can best be seen after tlie following dissection : Release the eyeball from any position in which it may be held. Evert the lower eyelid, and remove the conjunctiva from it at the inferior fornix. Remove the fat lying in the floor of the anterior portion of the orbit, and clean the exposed muscle. In doing this be careful not to cut the nerve which enters the posterior border of the inferior oblique muscle. The Inferior Oblique Muscle arises by a flat tendon from the orbital plate of the superior maxilla to the outer side of the orbital orifice of the laciymal duct. It passes outward and backward under the inferior rectus muscle, and then upward between the globe and the external rectus muscle. It ends in a membranous tendon which is inserted into the sclera on the upper and outer side of tlie globe, below and external to the insertion of the superior oblique muscle. Action.—It rotates the eyeball outward, and elevates and abducts the cornea. In abducting the cornea it counteracts the tendency of the superior rectus muscle and inferior rectus muscle to adduct the cornea.