THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. 361 the globe, causing symblepharon ; or cicatricial contraction may produce inversion of the eyelid and eyelashes (entropion). Adherence of the two raw surfaces may be prevented by sliding a bridge of conjunctiva from above the cornea, and plac- ing it upon the raw surface below. Entropion may also be caused by cicatricial contraction in chronic conjunctivitis. In purulent conjunctivitis (purulent ophthalmia), which is usually due to infection of the conjunctiva by gonorrheal pus, the great danger lies in involvement of cornea, which may produce permanent blindness. Coats and Refracting Media of the Eye.—The eyeball contains three super- imposed coats, inclosing three refracting media, or so-called humors. The coats, named from Avithout inward, are a fibrous,- a vascular, and a nervous coat. The refracting media, enumerated from before backward, are the aqueous humor, the crystalline lens, and the vitreous humor. The Fibrous Coat is composed of two portions—the sclera and the cornea. Dissection.—To observe all parts of the sclerotic coat clearly, it should be detached from the underlying tissues and removed. To do this it should be incised at the equator—i. e., midway between the center of the cornea (the anterior pole) and the corresponding posterior point (the posterior pole). A sharp knife should be used to make a short cut just deep enough to expose the black, underlying choroid. A pair of scissors with delicate blades and sharp points should then be used to com2:)lete the equatorial incision. With the handle of the scalpel the halves of the sclerotic coat should be separated from the subjacent tissues, as one removes the skin of an orange. At only two points will any diffi- culty be met. One is at the entrance of the optic nerve, where it is necessary to cut off the optic nerve close to the choroid ; the other j^oint is anteriorly, where the ciliary body is attached to the sclera. By the use of slight force this attach- ment can be torn with the forceps, and the anterior moiety, composed of the sclera and the cornea, removed entire. This results in escape of the aqueous humor. The remainder of the globe should be laid aside in diluted alcohol until required for further study. The sclera, or sclerotic coat, incloses the posterior five-sixths of the eyeball, the remaining anterior one-sixth of its wall being completed by the cornea. It is incomplete posteriorly at the entrance of the optic nerve, the opening (foramen scleras) being partially filled by a layer of sclerotic tissue, called the lamina cribrosa. It is white, opaque, and tough, and maintains the normal conformation of the globe. It consists of interlacing bundles of white, fibrous connective tissue. It is thickest posteriori}^, and thinnest just behind the insertions of the rectus muscles, about one-fourth to one-third of an inch or six to eight millimeters from the cornea, where it is sometimes ruptured in cases of injury to the eyeball.