274 SURGICAL ANATOMY. of the larynx accessible, the thyroid cartilage is sometimes split longitudinally, from the notch in the' upper border to the lower border. In this operation it is important to divide the cartilage exactly in the median line, so as not to injure the a^chments of the vocal cords. When the cartilage has been divided, the, two halves are turned aside, thus exposing the interior of the larynx and enabling the operator to remove a small tumor or foreign body. Fractures of the thyroid cartilage are rare, but are more common than in the other cartilages of the larynx. They are usually produced by external direct violence, as choking or throttling, and the line of fracture is usually in the median line, at the angle. There are pain, swelling, and tenderness in and around the larynx, with increased pain on swallowing, coughing, or talking. The moist crepitus which can be produced by forcibly moving a normal thyroid cartilage laterally must not be mistaken for that present as a result of fracture. Ossification of the thyroid cartilage frequently occurs, and may commence at the age of twenty years. The cricoid cartilage is the strongest of the cartilages of the larynx ; it is a firm base which supports the other portions of the larynx, and rests upon the upper end of the trachea. It is hyaline in structure, completely encircles the lower portion of the cavity of the larynx, and, like a signet ring, is broader behind than in front. Its external surface gives origin, in front, to the crico-thyroid muscle, and, at the side, to the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. Where its lateral aspect joins the posterior there is a fticet for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The posterior portion of this surface presents a median ridge, which gives origin to the longitudinal muscular fibers of the esophagus, and a depression on each side of the ridge, which gives oi'igin to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. The upper border is horizontal for a short distance, but is soon directed obliquely downward and forward. Where the oblique portion begins there is a facet upon wliich the base of the arytenoid cartilage rests. The anterior and lateral portions of the upper border give attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane and the lateral crico-thyroid muscle. The inferior border is horizontal. It is attached to the first ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane like that between the tracheal rings. The internal surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the larynx. Ossification is not uncommon in the cricoid cartilage, but in the smaller cartilages of the larynx that stage of development is seldom attained. The cuneiform cartilages, or cartilages of Wrisberg, should next be studied. They are two small conic masses of yellow elastic cartilage situated in the aryteno-