391 THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. the vitreous body. Peripherally, it is iu relation Avitli the zone of Zinn and the canal of Petit. The lens is composed of the lens capsule and the lens substance. The capsule of the lens is the strong, elastic, transparent membrane which surrounds the lens substance. The lens substance is a transparent, gelatinous material, translucent in the cadaver, and composed of transparent fibers joined by a trans- parent cement. The cortex, or peripheral portion, is soft, and the central portion, or nucleus, is firm. Dissection.—With a sharp knife divide the anterior part of the capsule of the lens, and then express the lens substance through the opening as one squeezes the pulp of a grape from its skin ; the capsule and lens substance can now be examined. The capsule of the lens or the suspensory ligament may be ruptured by traumatism, and the lens escape into the vitreous or aqueous humor. If the anterior portion of the capsule is torn, the aqueous humor will enter and produce opacity of the lens. This is done purposely in the treatment of soft cataract, so that the lens substance may be absorbed by the aqueous humor. In presbyopia, or old-age sight, the power of accommodation is diminished through the loss of elasticity of the lens. This occurs between the ages or foi'ty and fifty years. In an emmetropic eye which has become presbyopic parallel rays come to a focus on the retina, and distant objects are easily seen, but, through loss of accommodation, near objects are not discerned so readily. As hyperopic eyes constantly require the function of accommodation, gradual loss of this function causes them to feel the effects of presbyopia at an earlier age than emmetropic or myopic eyes. A myopic eye may never suffer from the effects of presbyopia, because it requires no accommodation. A cataract is a diminution in the transparency of the capsule or substance of the lens. After extraction of the cataractous lens, much of the refractive power of the eyeball is lost; consequently, highly convex glasses are required to bring the rays of light-to a focus on the retina. The Chambers of the Eyeball are two in number in addition to the vitreous chamber. Both are in front of the lens ; both are lymph spaces and contain aqueous humor, and they are separated from each other by the iris. The anterior chamber of the eye is bounded in front bv tlie cornea and behind by the iris and that portion of the lens which presents at the pupil. It communicates with the posterior chamber through the pupil. At its external angle it is bounded by the pectinate ligament of the iris. This angle, which is formed by the peripheral - portions of the cornea and iris, is called the angle or sinus of the anterior chamber, or the filtration angle. Knowledge of the anatomy of