538 SURGICAL AX ATOMY. The Optic Thalami, the posterior pair of cerebral ganglia, are two oval masses of white and gray matter. They are convex from before backward, and slightly so i'rom side to side, and have their long axis directed obliquely from before backward and from within outward. They lie one upon each side of the third ventricle, between the tails of the caudate nuclei, and rest ujion the crura cerebri. Each o})tic thalanuis forms a large portion of the floor of the body of the lateral ven- tricle, while its posterior end projects into the descending cornu of that ventricle. Each optic thalamus consists of two extremities: an anterior, called the anterior tubercle, which forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Monro, and a posterior, called the pulvinar, or posterior tubercle. The ui)per surface of each is i)artly free and partly covered by the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, the velum interpositum, and the lateral border of the body of the fornix. On its upper surface is situated an antero-posterior groove, called the sulcus choroideus, for the attachment of the velum interpositum. In the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus lies the taenia semicircularis. The optic thalami are connected by the middle and po.sterior commissures of the third ventricle. Running along the upper border of each optic thalamus from behind forward are the peduncles of the pineal gland. Geniculate Bodies.—The under surface of the posterior extremity of each optic thalamus, which forms part of the roof of the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents two small gray eminences, the internal and external geniculate bodies. To see these bodies satisfactorily, turn the brain on its side and raise the posterior extremity of the optic thalamus. The internal geniculate bodies are connected internally with the nates of the corpora cjuadrigcmina through the medium of the brachia, and externally are directly continuous with tlie optic tract. The Pineal Gland or Body, Conarium, or Epiphysis Cerebri, is a small, red- dish gray, oval body, about one-fourth of an inch, or six millimeters, in length. It is directed forward and upward, and rests upon the groove between the ante- rior pair of the corjxmi (luadrigemina and above the posterior commissure of the third ventricle. Erom the base of the pineal body a white cms. or peduncle, passes forward upon each side of the third ventricle and along tlie up])er and inner surface of the optic thalami to the anterior crura of the fornix, with wliich the peduncles become contiimous. Posterioi'ly they are joined together in h'ont of the base of the pineal Ixxly, and are connected with the j)osterior connuissure of the third ventricle. The Corpora Quadrigemina, or Optic Lobes, are situated immediately behind the third ventricle, and are com})()sed of four eminences. These are arranged in two pairs: an anterior or ui){)er, the larger of the two, and called the nates, and a