446 SURGICAL ANATOMY. fissure of Sylvius, it gives off the posterior communicating and the anterior clioroid arteries, and divides into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. The Anterior Cerebral Artery runs forward and inward across the anterior perforated space and the lamina cinerea, and between the optic and olfactory nerves, to reach the longitudinal fissure. Here it is joined to the anterior cerebral artery of the opposite side by a transverse branch, the anterior communicating artery. It now curves around the genu of the corpus callosum, and runs back- ward along the upper surface of the corpus callosum and at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum as far as the splenium of the corpus callosum, where it anastomoses with the posterior cerebral artery. At its commencement the anterior cerebral artery gives off a few antero- median branches to the anterior extremity of the caudate nucleus. At the bottom of the longitudinal fissure it gives off branches to the corpus callosum, the frontal lobe, marginal gyrus, quadrate lobule, and gj^rus fornicatus. The Anterior Communicating Artery, the shortest artery in the body, lies on the lamina cinerea in front of the optic commissure, and connects the two ante- rior cerebral arteries across the longitudinal fissure. It also gives off antero- median ganglionic branches which pierce the lamina cinerea, and a small branch to the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum. Sometimes this vessel is absent, when the two anterior cerebral arteries have no connection, or form a common trunk, and then divide. The Middle Cerebral Artery (Sylvian), the largest branch of the internal carotid, runs outward deeply within the fissure of Sylvius, and supplies the motor area of the brain. It gives off branches which supply the caudate and lenticular nuclei, the internal capsule, the optic thalamus, and the surface of the brain, as follows : Sniall branches which pass through the bottom of the fissure of Sjdvius to the head of the caudate nucleus; antero-lateral branches, which pass through the anterior perforated space and supply the body and tail of the caudate nucleus, the internal capsule, and the optic thalamus; a branch, the lenticulo- striate, which passes through an aperture in the anterior perforated space and supplies the lenticular and caudate nuclei. The lenticulo-striate artery is called by Charcot the artery of cerebral hemorrhage, as it has so frequently been found ruptured in this condition. Finally, opposite the island of Reil, -the middle cerebral artery gives off cortical branches which supply the operculum and the temporal and parietal lobes, especially the supra-marginal and angular gyri. The Posterior Communicating Artery arises from the posterior surface of the internal carotid, and runs directly backward, parallel to and on the inner side of the oculo-motor nerve, to join the j)osterior cerebral artery. It varies in size, being sometimes so large as to give the impression that the posterior cerebral artery is its