MALE PERINEUM. 613 divided in the operations of lateral and median lithotomy and in those perineal sections in which the membranous urethra is attacked. Dissection.—The triangular ligament, or, as it is often described, the super- ficial layer of the ligament, is to be divided at its attachment to the rami of the pubes and ischium and turned inward, upon the side of the perineum from which the crus penis has been removed. Next carefully trace the structures occupying the deep intra-aponeurotic space of the perineum proper. The Deep Intra-aponeurotic Space of the Perineum is situated in the peri- neum proper between the two layers of the triangular ligament. It contains the compressor urethree muscle, the membranous urethra, Cowper's glands and their ducts, the arteries of the bulb, the internal pudic arteries, the internal pudic veins, the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, and the dorsal arteries, vein, and nerves of the penis. The compressor urethras muscle {constrictor urethrse, deep transversus j^erinei) consists of transverse fibers, and completely surrounds the membranous portion of the urethra. It arises on each side from the ischio-pubic ramus for the distance of about half an inch, or twelve millimeters. The fibers pass inward and separate into two sets, one of which passes anterior to, and the other posterior to, the mem- branous urethra. The muscles of the two sides are inserted into a median raphe, their most anterior fibers being inserted into the connective tissue filling the angular interval at the junction of the crura of the penis, and the most posterior fibers being inserted into the perineal center. Blood Supply.—From the internal pudic artery and the artery of the bulb. Nerve Supply.—From the perineal division of the pudic nerve. Action.—The action of the muscle is to diminish the caliber of the mem- branous urethra and so to aid in the retention of urine in the bladder, to com- press the veins of the penis in erection of that organ, and to assist in expelling urine and semen. Beneath the fibers of the compressor urethra and surrounding the urethra are involuntary circular muscular fibers which are continuous with the muscular fibers of the bladder, and which assist in forcing forward the urine and the semen. The membranous urethra may be the site of spasmodic stricture, or urethrismus (Otis), resulting from some pathologic condition of the pendulous urethra : i. e., a stricture of large caliber or a contracted meatus. Cowper's glands are two small, yellow, racemose glands, each about the size of a pea, situated behind and below the membranous urethra, one on each side of the median line, in the substance of the compressor urethne muscle. They are overlapped by the posterior end of the bulb, from which they are separated by the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. The duct of each gland—nearly an