1S9 LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. artery, opposite the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and its course, as elsewhere described, is divided into three portions : Tlie first portion extends from the origin of the artery to the outer border of the hyo-glossus muscle. It ascends to reach the upper border of the greater cornu of tlie hyoid bone, and then runs just above and parallel with that cornu. This is the most superficial portion of the artery. It is covered by skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and superficial layer of the deep fascia, and is crossed by the hj^po-glossal nerve, lingual vein, and digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. This portion of the vessel rests upon the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx and the superior laryngeal nerve. The second portion runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, lingual vein, hypo-glossal nerve, digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, submaxillary gland, superficial layer of the deep fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and superficial fascia and skin. It rests here upon the middle constrictor muscles of the pharynx and the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. This portion is the j)oint of election in ligation of the artery. The third portion ascends between the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, pierces the latter muscle, and runs between it and the lingualis muscle in the under surface of the tongue as far as the tip of that organ. To ligature the lingual artery in its second portion, or point of election, the patient should be placed in the same position as for ligature of the common and external carotid arteries, and the lower jaw drawn upward. The incision extends from the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle forward along the upper border of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, branches of the facial and anterior jugular veins, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided. The submaxillary gland is displaced and held well upward on the lower jaw, and the process of deep fascia beneath the gland divided. The tendon and bellies of the digastric muscle, the stylo-hyoid muscle, the hypo-glossal nerve, the lingual vein (which is just below the nerve), the mylo-hyoid and the h3'o-glossus muscle, will be exposed. The stylo-hyoid muscle and the tendon of the digastric muscle are drawn down- ward, the lingual vein and hypo-glossal nerve upward, and an incision one-half of an inch long should be carefully made through the hyo-glossus muscle just above the hyoid bone. If the incision through the hyo-glossus muscle is accurately made, the artery Avill project into the wound. The aneurysm needle is passed around the artery, and may include the venae comites. The submaxillary gland should not be injured, as this accident would probably give rise to a salivary fistula. To avoid the danger of opening the pharynx when incising the hyo-