SURGICAL ANATOMY. 64 drain, the first step should consist in the removal of the submaxillary lymphatic glands of both sides of the neck, and, in some instances, of the submaxillary saljvary gland ; the final step consists of the removal of the growth. Tuberculosis of these glands is a not uncommon condition, because of the large area from which they receive lymph ; infection from inflammatory affections of the pharyngeal, nasal, and oral mucous membranes, as well as from carious teeth, is very frequently the cause of disease of these glands. An extensive cervical cellulitis, known as Ludwig's angina, may originate from septic processes in the submaxillary lym- phatic glands. The floor of the submaxillary triangle is formed by the mylo-hyoid muscle, the anterior belly of the digastric, the hyo-glossus, the superior constrictor, and a small portion of the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx. Dissection.—The roof of the triangle having been reflected in removing the superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia, the submaxillary salivary gland, with the exception of its upper portion, which is hidden by the body of the lower jaw, will now be seen. The gland is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, which is derived from the superficial layer of the deep fascia. Displace the submaxillary gland up- ward upon the face, holding it there with hooks while further dissection of the triangle is made. In displacing the gland avoid severing the facial vein, which passes over it, and the facial artery, which passes through the groove on its deep surfaces. The lingual triangle.—The portion of the submaxillary or digastric triangle, through which the lingual artery runs, is frequently spoken of as the lingual triangle. In relation with the triangle are the submaxillary gland, the posterior belly and the tendon of the digastric muscle, the hypo-glossal nerve, the hyo- glossus muscle, and the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx. This sub- division of the submaxillary triangle is bounded above by the hypo-glossal nerve, posteriorly by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and anteriorly by the mylo-hyoid muscle ; its roof is formed by the submaxillary gland, and its floor by the hyo-glossus and middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx. In ligating the lingual artery an incision is carried above and parallel with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone ; the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma myoides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided, and the submaxillary gland is exposed. The gland is lifted upward, when the artery will be found beneath the hyo-glossus muscle and beneath the interval between the hypo-glossal nerve and the tendon of the digastric muscle. In making the incision through the hyo-glossus muscle care must be observed to avoid wounding the middle constrictor muscle, division of which would open the pharynx. It is not necessary to cut the hyo-glossus, as the artery is readily secured before it passes beneath that muscle without endangering the pharynx.