386 , SURGICAL ANATOMY. anterior surface. The hyaloid meniljrane, in this region, is thrown into numerous folds, caused by the plications of the choroid portion of the ciliary body, to which it is so closely apposed. At the ciliary margin of the ligament these folds become inverted into stiff fibers, which form two series. One series consists of those fibers which spring from the apices of the ciliary processes ; the other, of tliose which spring from the depressions between the processes. The former are inserted into the periphery and adjacent parts of the posterior })ortion of the capsule of the lens, and the latter go to the anterior surface of the lens, blending with the supei'- ficial hn^ers of the anterior portion of the lens capsule. Tlie lens is, in this manner, maintained in its position. The tension of. the zone of Zinn is varied by contraction of the ciliary muscle ; when this muscle contracts, tlie suspensory ligament is relaxed ; thus, the lens is less firmly com- pressed, and by its own elasticity becomes more convex, and its focal distance is decreased. This function is known as accommodation. The Canal of Petit is a narrow lymphatic channel which encircles the margin of the lens, is triangular on section, and is bounded in front by the anterior lamina of the suspensory ligament of the lens, behind by the hyaloid membrane, and internally by the capsule of the lens. It is subdivided into two portions by the fibers of the posterior lamina of the suspensory ligament of the lens. The lymph in the canal of Petit is derived from the ciliary vessels, and is supposed to supply nutrition to the lens. Dissection.—By carefully inserting a fine blowpipe into the canal of Petit it may be distended by air or a colored fluid. When so dilated, it presents a series of sacculations, due to the undulations in the zone of Zinn produced by the ciliary processes. Remove the lens by cutting through tlie zone of Zinn with a pair of scissors. The Crystalline Lens is a biconvex, circular body, lying behind the iris and aqueous humor, and in front of the vitreous body. Its rounded margin is a short distance from, and parallel with, the corona ciliaris of the ciliary body, to which it is firmly attached by the suspensory ligament of the lens. The center of the anterior surface of the lens is the anterior pole, and tlie center of the po.sterior surface is the posterior pole. The convexity of the anterior .surface of the lens is not so great as that of the posterior surface. The central portion of the anterior surface is opposite the pupil, and in contact with the aqueous humor of the anterior chamber. At the margin of this central portion tlie lens is in contact with the posterior surface of the pu])illary margin of the iris ; external to this margin tlie cui'vatuiv of the lens carries it away from the iris ; this interval between the lens and iris is the jiosterior chamber of the eye, and is filled with part of the aqueous humor. Posteriorly, the lens is received into tlie patellar fossa of