604 SURGICAL AXATOMY. It gives off muscular branches to the levator ani and the superficial muscles, and cutaneous branches to the integument and fascia of the scrotum and around the root of the penis. The posterior superficial perineal nerve is also derived from the perineal division of the pudic nerve in the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa. It runs forward in the superficial surface of CoUes' fascia to the scrotum. Sometimes it pierces Colles' fascia at its junction with the base of the triangular ligament, and passes forward over or under the transverse perineal muscle, accompanying the superficial perineal artery. It sends filaments to the sphincter ani muscle and to the skin in front of the anvis. It receives a communicating branch from the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve. At the back part of the scrotum it communicates with the anterior superficial perineal nerve and with the inferior pudendal nerve. The inferior or long pudendal nerve is a branch of the small sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, above the tuberosity of the ischium, passes obliquely upward and inw'ard over the ascending ramus of the ischium, and then runs forward over or pierces the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum. It is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and outer part of the perineum, communicating with the posterior branch of the perineal nerve. It also communicates with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve. Pain referred to the back of the thigh in affections of the perineum or scrotum in the male, and of the perineum or vulva in the female, is explained through the connection of the small sciatic nerve with the posterior superficial perineal nerve by means of the inferior pudendal. The muscles occupying the superficial intra-aponeurotic space which are seen at this stage of the dissection are the accelerator urinse in the median line, the erector penis at the side, and the transverse perineal ]:)elow. They form two mus- cular triangles, the common perpendicular of which is formed by the acceleratores urintB ; the base of each triangle, by the transverse perineal; and the hypothenuse, by the erector penis. The Accelerator Urinae Muscle (ejaculator seminis, or bulbo-cavernosus) lies on the bulb of the corpus spongiosum and the portion of the corjjus spongiosum just anterior to the bulb. It is a double muscle, the two halves being united in the middle line on the superficial surface of tlie bulb by a median tendon or raphe. It consists of three sets of fibers—posterior, middle, and anterior. The posterior fibers are inserted into the anterior layer of the triangular ligament on each side of the bulb, and some of the most posterior fibers are inserted beneath the cms penis into the middle of the ischio-pul)ic ramus ; the middle fibers sur- round the bulb and the adjacent part of the corpus spongiosum, and join the fibers