441 THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. can be separated, however, by inflating the subarachnoid space with air by means of a blowpipe. The Subdural Space.—The arachnoid was formerly described as consisting of two layers—a parietal layer, lining the inner surface of the dura mater, and a visceral layer, reflected over the brain ; in this respect it was said to resemble serous membranes elsewhere. It is now regarded as consisting of but one layer. The space between the dura mater and the arachnoid is known as the subdural space, and contains a small amount of fluid ; this space was formerly styled the cavity of the arachnoid ; it does not communicate with the subarachnoid space or with the ventricles. The Subarachnoid Space.—The space betweei. the arachnoid and the pia mater is known as the subarachnoid space; it is most pronounced at the base of the brain. Here the arachnoid membrane is thicker than elsewhere, and bridges over the interval between the temporo-sphenoid lobes and the space between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, partially occupied by the medulla oblongata. By the intervention of the pons this general subarachnoid space is subdivided into the anterior and the posterior space. The posterior space communicates with the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord and with the fourth ventricle of the brain through a small opening in the roof of the latter called the foramen of Magendie, and through two other apertures—the foramina of Key and Retzius—which are located at each lateral recess of the fourth ventricle. This space contains the cerebro-spinal fluid ; because of this fact the brain may be said to lie on a water-bed. Projecting into this space are seen the larger blood- vessels on their way toward the brain ; the lymphatics of the brain and spinal cord empty into this space, which is in communication with the perilymph of the internal ear and with the lymphatics of the nose. Subarachnoid Cisterns is the name given to the more capacious portions of the subarachnoid space, the largest being the cisterna magna, situated between the adjacent surfaces of the medulla oblongata and cerebellum. The cisterna magna is the upward continuation of the posterior portion of the spinal subarachnoid space. The anterior portion of the spinal subarachnoid space is continued upon the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons as the cisterna pontis, and communicates freely around the medullo-pontine furrow, or sulcus, with the cisterna magna, which is situated above and behind the medulla oblongata. The cisterna hasalis is that part of the subarachnoid space situated between the tips of the temporo-sphenoid lobes and the crura cerebri, and in front of the pons ; into it project the circle of Willis and the vessels connected with this circle. Laterally, the cisterna basalis extends into the Sylvian fissures ; while anteriorly it extends into a minor space in front of the optic chiasm, and thence further