400 SURGICAL ANATOMY: The pinna is developed in the emliryo from six small tnliercles which form at the external extremity of the first branchial cleft. As a resnlt of imperfect fnsion pf these tubnles supernumerary auricles or auricular fistulae may occur near the external auditory meatus. If the oritice of one of these hstuUe is closed, a der- moid cyst of the })inna forms. Supernumerary pinnae or auricles may also develop at the external extremity of the other branchial clefts. The integument of the auricle, which is continuous with that lining the external auditory meatus, is thin, and contains sebaceous glands and, in certain situations, hairs and sudorii'erous glands. The sebaceous glands are most abundant in the concha, where their orifices can often be seen, filled with foreign material, in persons who are careless as to cleanliness. Scbaccom cysts not infrequently develop in the skin of the pinna. The integument is more firml}' attached over 'the concave surface of the pinna than on the convex or cranial surface. Hemor- rhagic effusions beneath the skin or between the cartilage and its perichondrium, as a result of trauma, are not uncommonly seen in pugilists; they are known as otliematomata. On account of the close union between the skin and the concave surface of the pinna, inflammatory affections are painful in this location. In chronic gout subcutaneous deposits of sodium urate, termed tophi, are found in the pinna. The subcutaneous tissue of the pinna forms a thin lamina almost devoid of fat. The lack of subcutaneous fat, which affords protection from cold to the blood-vessels, and the exposed position of the pinna account for the frecpiency of frost-bite in this location, which occasionally causes gangrene of the pinna. The yellow, elastic cartilage of the auricle, which gives form to that struc- ture, presents several fissures and processes; there is a fissure between the origin of the helix and the tragus which is filled with fibrous tissue. The lower end of the antihelix is divided into two parts, one of which terminates in a pointed extremity called the processus caudatus. At the anterior portion of the pinna, near the first curve of the helix, there is a projection,—the spina helicis,—and behind it is a short cleft—the fissure of the helix. Bands of fibrous tissue—the so-called ligaments of the pinna—connect this structure with the cranium, and others unite the various parts of the cartilage. Anteriorly a band of fibrous tissue connects the spina helicis with the root of the zygoma, and fibrous tissue attaches the concha to the mastoid process posteriori}'. The intrinsic muscles of the auricle are small, rudimentary, and unimpor- tant. The extrinsic nniscles have been described with the face. Blood Supply.—The arteries, with which the pinna is well suj)plied, are derived from the posterior aiu-icular, occipital, and superficial temporal arteries. They are accompanied by corresponding veins.