544 SURGICAL ANATOMY. they should be divided now, and each half reflected laterally to expose the fourth ventricle. The Fourth Ventricle is a quadrangular, lozenge-shaped space, situated between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii. The roof is formed anteriorly by the valve of Vieussens and the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and posteriorly by the inferior medullary velum, the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum, the choroid plexus, and the tela choroidea inferior. The floor is formed by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii. It is bounded laterally by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum above, and the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum below. The ventricle is lined by the ependyma or epithelial wall of the ventricles of the brain. The ventricle presents four angles, a superior, an inferior, and two lateral (also called the lateral recesses of the ventricle). The widest part of the ventricle corresponds to the interval between the lateral angles, which are at about its middle. The Tela Choroidea Inferior is that part of the pia mater on the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata which completes the posterior part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. It contains three perforations: the foramina of Magendie, Key, and Retzius. The foramen of ^lagendie is located in the median line near the inferior angle of the fourth ventricle. The foramina of Key and Retzius are located at the lateral recesses of the ventricle. By way of these openings the ventricle comnumi- caies with the general su])arachnoid space. The two choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle are also derived from the pia mater by the intrusion of its folded edge into the roof of that cavity. They extend forward from the posterior angle of the fourth ventricle near the median line for a short distance, and then diverge to reach the lateral recesses of the ven- tricle. The fourth ventricle communicates with the third ventricle by way of the aqueduct of Sylvius, and with the central canal of the spinal cord through an opening in the inferior angle which is dilated and is called the ventricle of Arantius. The floor of the fourth ventricle is its most important part, for the reason that the nuclei of most of the cranial nerves are situated there. It is compo.sed chiefly of gray matter continuous with the gray matter of the spinal cord. Occu))ying the middle line of the floor of the fourth ventricle is the median longitudinal fissure. It extends from the posterior orifice of the acjueduct of Sylvius to the po.s- terior or inferior angle of the ventricle, which is at the point of divergence of the