627 THE EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. on its external aspect to the inner surface of the ischio-pubic ramus, and lies between Colles' fascia and the triangular ligament. The two crura converge as they pass forward, and become closely adherent just anterior to the subpubic liga- ment. The corpora cavernosa are composed of erectile tissue, and are enveloped by a strong sheath—the tunica albuginea. The outer layer of the tunica albuginea invests both corpora cavernosa, and the inner layer projects dorsally between the corpora cavernosa, forming the pectiniform septum, which incom- pletely separates them. Each corpus cavernosum is supplied by tlie artery of the corpus cavernosum which traverses it. The corpus spongiosum is situated in the under portion of the penis, in the groove between the corpora cavernosa., It is composed of erectile tissue sur- rounded by a sheath called the tunica albuginea, and through its erectile tissue passes the spongy portion of the urethra. It is divided into the bulb, body, and glans. The bulb of the penis or of the corpus spongiosum is the posterior expanded portion of the corpus si)ongiosum, situated in the superficial interspace of the peri- neum proper and surrounded by the accelerator urinte muscles. It is about four centimeters long and one and one-half centimeters wide. It ti*ansmits the bulbous part of the spongy portion of the urethra, which enters it at its deep surface and runs nearer to that surface. The body of the corpus spongiosum is of uniform diameter, the urethra lying nearer to its inferior surface. The glans is described below. The penis is arbitrarily divided, for purposes of description, into a main por- tion and two ends, called the root, body, and glans. The root of the penis is formed by the crura, which are the posterior portions of the two corpora cavernosa converging from their attachments to the sides of the subpubic arch to unite at the proximal end of the penis proper. The suspensory ligament of the organ, as it descends from the pubic symphysis and lower part of the linea alba of the abdomen, also forms part of the root of tbe penis. The form and dimensions of the erect penis are well demonstrated by making a deep narrow puncture in one or both crura penis and then inserting a blow-pipe and inflating the corpora cavernosa. The body of the penis has the form of a prism Avith rounded margins, the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa foiming its lateral surfaces, and the corpora cavernosa its dorsal surface ; this is most noticeable Avhen the organ is erect. The glans penis is the peculiar cordate expansion of the corpus spongiosum around the tapering anterior extremities of the corpora cavernosa. It has a well- defined, elevated border, called the corona of the glans, the depression back of it