214 SURGICAL ANATOMY. of the set to appear being the posterior molars, the eruption of which should occur in the third year or the latter half of the second year. The second or permanent set are sixteen in number in each jaw—viz., four incisors, two canines, four bicus- pids or premolars, and six molars. The first molars appear in the seventh year; the middle incisors and then the lateral incisors soon follow. The third molars, or wisdom teeth, are the last to pierce the gums, usually at the seventeenth or eigh- teenth year. When a child is affected by congenital syphilis, faulty nutrition affects the development of the permanent teeth, so that they are not perfectly formed. These syphilitic teeth are uneven, and have a contracted and a crescent- ically notched cutting edge. The central incisors are the most typical, and are the "test teeth of Hutchinson." When the mouth is wide open, a ridge produced by the pterygo-maxillary ligament may be seen ascending from just behind the last molar tooth to the hamular process of the internal pterygoid })late of the sphenoid bone. The hamu- lar process may be felt as a resisting prominence a short distance behind and slightly internal to the upper last molar tooth. It is the guide in division of the tensor palati and levator palati muscles. The Gums cover the alveolar processes of the jaws and firmly surround the necks of the teeth. They are composed of dense vascular connective tissue, cov- ered by mucous membrane. The periosteum of the alveolar processes is continued into the alveoli, forming the lining mem])rane of these cavities. Pus at the root of a tooth may work its way into the gvim, producing a "gum boil." In chronic lead poisoning a blue line appears upon the dental margin of the gums, and is produced by lead sulphid, which is formed by chemic combination between lead in the tissues and hydrogen sulphid derived from decomposing food. Swelling of the gums and tenderness of the teeth during the administration of mercury indicate that the physiologic limit for that remedy has been reached, and that the dose should be decreased or the drug temporarily withdrawn. The swollen and readily bleeding gums in scurvy assist in the diagnosis of that disease. The Hard Palate is composed of the palate or horizontal processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones, clothed on their inferior surface by a dense, tough muco-periosteura. In the operation for cleft palate the toughness and den- sity of the muco-periosteum render its manipulation less difficult. The muco- periostcum contains a median raphe, which marks the line of junction of the two halves. When these two halves fail to unite, cleft palate results. This malforma- tion is often associated with harelip. Blood Supply.—The hard palate is supplied by the naso-palatine and poste- rior palatine vessels.