332 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Nerve Supply.—From the superior division of the motor oculi nerve. Dissection.—This is a very important stage of tlie dissection, and if care is j^ot exercised, some of the important structures will be destroyed. Divide tlie superior rectus muscle and reflect it. While dissecting this muscle free from the underlying structures, observe a nerve filament entering the under surfixce of the posterior portion of the divided muscle. This nerve is the superior division of the oculo-motor nerve, and, as previously stated, sends a perforating branch through the superior rectus muscle to supply the levator palpebirse superioris muscle. Remove a quantity of loose fat, and when working on the outer side of the optic nerve, take especial care not to injure the lenticular ganglion or its connections. The optic nerve, as well as numerous structures above and upon each side of it, will now be exposed. These are the nasal nerve, the ophthalmic artery and vein, and the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve, all of which cross the optic nerve. There may also be found the short ciliary nerves. These are more numerous than the long ciliary nerves, and one of the largest should be selected and followed backward until its source of origin, the lenticular ganglion, is reached. By careful Avork the roots of this ganglion can be worked out by tracing them backward from the ganglion. They will lead to the nasal nerve, the inferior division of the oculo-motor nerve, and the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic nerve. In the 2:»osterior portion of the orbit the third nerve, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein can be seen passing between the heads of the external rectus muscle. In the anterior portion of the orbit the reflected tendon of the superior oblique muscle can now be more readily seen, for reflection of the superior rectus muscle has exposed its terminal portion. The Nasal Nerve is a branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. It gains access to the orbit through the sphenoid fissure, and passes between the two heads of the external rectus muscle and between the divisions of the oculo- motor nerve. It then crosses to the inner wall of the orbit, passing over the optic nerve and immediately under the superior rectus muscle, taking a position between the superior obli(|ue muscle and the internal rectus muscle. After giving off the infra-trochlear branch, it leaves the orbit through the anterior ethmoid foramen. It then takes the following course : Having })assed through the anterior ethmoid foramen, it again bec(jmes an occupant of the cranial cavity, lying between the dura mater and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Here it leaves the cranial cavity through the ethmoid fissure, or nasal slit at the side of the crista galli, and becomes an occu})ant of the nasal fossa. It has thus traversed in succession the cranial cavity, the orbit, the cranial cavity again, and, finally, tlie i