60 SURGICAL AXATOMY. layer of deep fascia (posterior process) covering the deeper structures,—namely, the scaleni muscles, the phrenic nerve, the cervical trunks of the axillary or br^^hial plexus of nerves,—and the subclavian, supra-scapular, and transversalis colli vessels will be seen. Remove the posterior process of the dee]) fascia from the triangle and study these deeper structures. Contexts of the Subclavian Triangle.—Crossing the lower part of the triangle beneath the clavicle are the supra-scapular artery and vein; these vessels pass in front of the third portion of the subclavian artery (the point of election), and may be the source of severe hemorrhage if divided when ligating the artery. The relation of the supra-scapular to the subclavian artery at its point of election is the same as that held by the middle sterno-mastoid artery to the common carotid artery at its point of election. Crossing the upper angle of the triangle are the transversalis colli artery and vein. Entering the triangle behind the posterior border of the lower part of the sterno-mastoid muscle is the external jugular vein, which passes in front of the subclavian artery to reach the subclavian vein. The external jugular vein is here joined by the supra-scapular and transversalis colli veins, and at times by a small branch (jugulo-cephalic) which passes over the clavicle, connecting the cephalic with the external jugular vein. The supra-scapular, transversalis colli, jugulo-cephalic, posterior external jugular, and some smaller veins at times form a plexus in front of the subclavian artery. This plexus of veins, especially when distended, renders operations in this space difficult. Emerging from beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid and scalenus anticus muscles is the third portion of the subclavian artery, which crosses the triangle obliquely downward and outward. The subclavian arter}- rises in the neck, about three-fourths of an inch above the clavicle. In nearly ever}-^ instance it runs behind the scalenus anticus muscle, but it may pass in front of that muscle or between its fibers. Normally, the third part of the subclavian artery does not give off any branches; the poste- rior scapular, however, one of the terminal branches of the transversalis colli artery, often arises from this portion of the vessel; the transversalis colli artery itself, or the supra-scapular artery, may arise from the third portion of the subclavian artery. The subclavian vein occupies a position below and anterior to the artery, not being visible frequently in a dissection of the .subclavian triangle. It lies upon the first rib, in front of the anterior scalene muscle, and liehind the clavicle. Passing downward over the anterior scalene muscle, beneath the posterior process of the deep fascia, is the phrenic nerve, which enters the chest through its upper opening, and between the subclavian artery and vein. Running through the upper and outer part of the triangle, above and external to the subclavian arter}', are the three cervdcal trunks of the axillary or brachial plexus of nerves, which emerge at the side of the neck from between the anterior and middle scalene muscles. In the opera-