512 SURGICAL ANATOMY. one-quarter inches, or three centimeters, beliind the center of the external auditory meatus and the same distance above Reid's base line. The ventricle is reached by carrying a grooved director ol)liquely forward and upward toward a point two and one-half to three inches, or six to seven and one-half centimeters, aljove the oppo- site external auditory meatus. The distance to which the grooved director must be inserted to reach the ventricle is from two to two and one-(|uartor inches, or five to five and oncdialf centimeters (Keen). Headache and Traumatic Epilepsy.—In otherwise uncontrollable headache, when the point of greatest pain can be located, the trephine is applied at that point. In traumatic epilepsy the trephine is applied to the site of the original injury. Craniectomy, or removal of a section of the calvaria to allow expansion of the brain in cases of idiocy, is, in the author's opinion, inadvisable, and might be compared to removal of a section of a nutshell to allow increased growth of a nut, the kernel of which is dead. THE INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. Material.—In order to study the brain to the best advantage the -dissector, as previously remarked, sliould have at least two preserved brains at his disposal. One brain may be used for the study of the fissures, convolutions, and interior of the brain ; and the other for making sections of the brain. Dissection.—Having completed the study of the fissures and the convolu- tions, next examine the interior of the cerebrum. Place the brain on its base, and separate the hemispheres of the cerebrum, to widen the longitudinal fissure, thus exposing the bottom of the fissure. This is formed in great part by a mass of white matter,—the corpus callosum, or the great transverse commissure of the cerebrum,—while in front of and behind the corpus callosvim the fissure extends without interruption to the base of the brain. j\Iake a horizontal section of one or both hemis})heres on a level with the floor of the longitudinal fissure. When both hemispheres are sliced away to the level of the floor of the longitudinal fissure, the upper surface of the cor])us callosum is well exposed. The corjms callosum can now be studied from two i)oints of view : from al)ovc in the present dissection, and from tlie side by looking at its sagittal section, seen in the preparation previously made by severing the two halves of the brain in the line of the longitudinal fissure. The Corpus Callosum, the great transverse commissure of the cerebrum, is a transverse l)and of white matter which spans tlie longitudinal fissure and connects the hemispheres of the cerebrum for nearly half their length. The Jalx cerebri