SURGICAL ANATOMY. 634 the external orifice of the urellira, and is the narrowest and least dilatable part of the canal; hence, an instrument which will [)ass the external meatus will pass through a normal urethra. To permit the passage of larger sizes of bougies it is sometimes necessary to enlarge the meatus by an incision downward toward the frenum of the i)repuce. Tlie narrowest places of the urethra are (1) at the external urinary meatus, and {2) where the meml)ranous portion passes through the superficial layer of the triangular ligament. Just behind these portions a calculus may lodge in the urethra. The widest localities are the fossa navicularis, bulbous portion, and center of the prostatic })ortion. In the cj[uiescent state the walls of the urethra are always in contact. The coaptation of the urethral wall is vertical at the external meatus and fossa navicularis, |; like an inverted J. at the ui)per end of the navicular fossa; transverse — or stellate % in the remainder of the spongy })ortion and in the mem- branous portion. It is like an inverted D in the prostatic ])ortion, on account of the projection of the verumontanum (colliculus seminalis). By these changes in shape the canal is riHed, thus causing the usual form of the urinary stream. In passing urethral bougies or stiff catheters through the pendulous portion of the male uretlu'a the canal accommodates itself to the curve of the instrument, but in passing through the portion posterior to the angle of the penis, which is almost immoval)le, the instrument must follow the direction of the urethra. In introducing a bougie the })atient is in the dorsal recumbent position, and the penis is held vertically upward to obliterate the angle of the organ. The instrument is held parallel with and close to the crease of the groin and is passed into the urethra until the fixed portion of the canal is entered. Then the instrument is brought to the median plane of the body, and while retained in that plane is depressed between the legs. Tlie a<lvancing beak of the instrument must follow the curve of the canal as soon as it reaches the fixed j)ortion of the urethra, and this is especially true in the bulbous and membranous jxtrtions. Difficulty in passage of instruments is inore frequently encountered whei'e the urethra i)asses through the superficial layer of the triangular ligament. Here the uretln-a is immova1)le and the broader bulbous portion suddenly narrows at its junction with the mend)ranous portion at the superior surface of the bulb. No difficulty is encountered if the beak of the instrument is made to follow the roof of the canal. When strictures are ])i-esent, false i)assages formed in introducing the.se instruments are usually just superficial to the .su])erficial layer of the triangular ligament at the bulbo-membranous junction. Rupture of the urethra may be produccnl by the body falling on the ])erin('um astride some hard substance, and crushing the wall of tlu- canal against the jiubic