460 SURGICAL ANATOMY. selke. It is composed of an anterior and a posterior lobe which ditfer in size, structure, and origin. The anterior lobe is mucli the larger, is of reddish-gray color, a^d is an isolated process of the wall of the buccal cavity of the embryo. The posterior lobe is the smaller, is lodged in a depression in the anterior lobe, is of yellowish-gray color, and is a process of the brain. It is the only part of the pituitary body structurally continuous with the infundibulum, which, in passing from the floor of the third ventricle to the pituitary body, pierces the dia})hragma selke. The Corpora Albicantia (bulbs of the fornix), two knobs situated behind the tuber cinereum, are formed l)y the anterior crura of the fornix, and the bundles of A'icq d'Azyr from the optic thalamvis, which reach the base of the brain. The Posterior Perforated Space is triangular in shape, its base corresponding to the corpora albicantia; its apex, to the pons A'arolii; and its sides, to the crura cerebri. It gives passage to postero-median ganglionic branches of the posterior cerebral and posterior communicating arteries, which run to the optic thalami. The Crura Cerebri, or cerebral peduncles, are two large cylindric masses of white and gray matter. The}' are about three-fourths of an inch, or eighteen mil- limeters, long, broader in front than behind, and composed of the longitudinal fibers of the pons Varolii, together with some fibers from the cerebellum. They commence at the anterior border of the pons, from which they emerge, and then pass forward and outward. They traverse the superior occipital foramen in the tentorium cerebelli in com[)any with the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, the oculo-motor and pathetic nerves, and the Ijasilar artery, and each enters the anterior and inner aspect of the corresponding temporo-sphenoid lobe. The optic tract and the pathetic nerve pass around the outer border of the corresponding crus cerebri, while the oculo-motor nerve winds around the inner border. Later, when making sections of the brain to study the arrangement of its interior, the crura cerebri will be cut across, when the locus nirjcr, a gray nucleus in the interior of each crus, will be exposed. The nucleus se})arates the fil)ers of the cms cerebri into two sets: a low^er and .smaller—tlie crnsfn—and an upper and larger—the fegvicntum. The Pons Varolii, or Tuber Annulare, the central figure in the group of the four divisions of the l)rain, is composed chiefly of white matter, and is situated behind the crura cerebri, in front of the medulla oblongata, and between the hemi- spheres of the cerebellum. It is about an inch, or twenty-five millimeters, long, and ratlicr more than this in width ; from its dorsal to its ventral surface it measures aljout three-fourths of an inch, or eighteen millimeters. It is markedly convex from side to side and slightly so from l)efore backward, and presents an antero-posterior median groove whieli accommodates the basilar artery. It consists principally of two sets of fillers—a transverse, or superficial, and a longi- tudinal, or deep, set. The former set extend laterally into each hemisphere of the cerebellum, forming the middle peduncles, or great transverse commissure, of