THE LARYNX. 275 epiglottidean folds, just anterior to the cornicula laryngis. Sometimes they are long and chib-shaped ; occasionally they are absent. The cornicula laryngis, or cartilages of Santorini, are two pyramidal masses of yellow elastic cartilage situated upon the summits of the arytenoid cartilages in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. They are directed inward. There may be a joint between them and the arytenoid cartilages, or they may be directly continuous with those cartilages. Their summits are attached to the upper border of the posterior portion of the cricoid cartilage by the ligamentum jugale. The ligamentum jugale is Y-shaped, the stem of the Y being attached to the cricoid cartilage and the two limbs to the summits of the cornicula laryngis. The cornicula laryngis and cuneiform cartilages, on laryngoscopic examina- tion, appear as two whitish swellings in the posterior extremity of each aryteno- epiglottidean fold. The arytenoid cartilages are tAvo irregularly pyramidal bodies, which rest upon the upper border of the posterior portion of the cricoid cartilage. Their greater portion is composed of hyaline cartilage; the remainder, their apices, being yellow elastic cartilage. Each has an apex, a base, three sides, three bor- ders, and three angles. The apex is directed upward, backward, and inward, and supports the corniculum larjaigis. The base is concave, and presents on its inner side a facet for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. The three sides are an internal, a posterior, and an antero-external or anterior surface. The internal surface is directed toward the corresponding surface of the oppo- site arytenoid cartilage, and is covered by mucous membrane. The posterior surface is concave, and gives attachment to the arytenoideus muscle. The antero-external or anterior surface is rough and irregular. It gives attach- ment to 'the thyro-arytenoideus muscle and the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament, which supports the mucous membrane of the false vocal cord. The three borders are the internal, external, and anterior. The internal border is directed inward and backward ; the external border slopes downward and outward to the external angle ; the anterior border slopes downward and forward to the anteiior angle. The three angles are the internal, external, and anterior. The internal angle is situated at the postero-internal angle of the base. It gives attachment to the transverse or crico-arytenoid ligament. The external angle or muscular process is located at the external angle of the base. It gives attachment anteriorl}^ to the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle, and posteriorly to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. The anterior angle or vocal process, situ- ated at the anterior angle of the base, is long and pointed, and gives attachment to the true vocal cord or inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament.