SURGICAL ANATOMY. former is the arrangement more commonly seen. Tlie post-central fissure runs parallel to the upper portion of the fissure of Rolando almost to the longitudinal figsure. Convolutions.—Through the medium of the intra-parietal fissure or of the intra-parietal and post-central fissures the lateral surface of the parietal lobe is divided into three principal convolutions : the ascending parietal or post-centi"al, the superior parietal, and the inferior parietal. The inferior parietal convolution is further subdivided into the supra-marginal and angular convolutions. The ascending parietal or post-central convolution lies innnediately behind the fissure of Rolando, in front of the ascending limb of the intra-parietal fissure, and the post-central fissure when present, and above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It is continuous with the lascending frontal convolution around the ends of the fissure of Rolando, and with the superior parietal convolution. It runs i)arallel with the ascending frontal convolution ; its lower extremity extends to the horizontal liml) of the fissure of Sylvius, forming the })osterior part of the operculum ; its upper extremity is limited l)y the longitudinal fissui^e, and, with the corresponding end of the ascending frontal convolution, forms the para- central lobule. The superior parietal convolution lies behind the ascending parietal con- volution, with which it is continuous. It is situated between the longitudinal fissure and the horizontal limb of the intra-parietal fissure, and extends })osteriorly as far as the lateral portion of the parieto-occipital fissure. Around the extremity of this fissure it is continuous with the first occipital convolution through the medium of the first annectant gyrus. On the mesial as{)ect of the hemisphere it is continuous with the quadrate lol^ule or precuneus. The inferior parietal convolution lies behind the ascending limb and below the horizontal limb of the intra-i)arietal fissure, and above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Posteriorly it is connected with the second occipital convo- lution by means of the second and third amiectant gyri, and also with the supe- rior temporal and the middle temporal convolution. It is subdivided into two convolutions, the supra-marginal and the angular. The supra-marginal convolution includes the anterior i)ortion of the inferior parietal as far as the posterior extremity of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It winds around this limb and becomes continuous Avith the superior temporal convolution and the angular convolution. The angular convolution is the posterior portion of the inferior parietal convo- lution ; it lies behind the terminal part of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius as it inclines upward. It winds around the posterior end of the superior temporal fissure, and becomes continuous with the second occipital convolution