.358 SURGICAL ANATOMY. eye; but the l)ullock's eye, on account of its comparative grossness, is more easily dissected. xVt least a half dozen bullocks' eyes should be procured before the dissection is commenced. The globe must be thoroughly cleaned down to the scferotic. Perhaps the best way to accomplish this is as follows: With scissors and forceps make a circular incision through the conjunctiva close to and j^arallel with the margin of the cornea. The conjunctiva, capsule of Tenon, fat, fascia, and muscles are then gradually worked free from tlie sclera from before l)ackward, as far as the point of entrance of the optic nerve. When al)Out half way back, (he vente vorticosa3 will be seen emerging; and when near the optic nerve, the circle around it, formed by the posterior ciliary arteries and ciliary nerves, will be noticed. The Conjunctiva is a mucous memljrane covering the anterior surface of the eyeball and the posterior surface of tlie eyelids. It consists of a parietal layer, the palpebral portion, which lines the eyelids, and of a visceral layer, the ocular portion, which covers the anterior one-third of the eyeball. The visceral layer is subdivided into a sclerotic and a corneal portion. The palpebral portion of the conjunctiva has been described with the eyelids under the Dissection of the Face. The sclerotic portion of the conjunctiva is loosely adherent, except at the margin of the cornea. It contains small blood-vessels, which are derived from the palpebral vessels, branches of the lacrymal, infra-orbital, supra-orbital, and frontal vessels, which will not be perceptible under perfectly normal conditions. Con- gested conjunctival vessels are distinguished from the anterior ciliary vessels by the ftict that the former move with the conjunctiva, while the latter are fixed in the sclerotic and remain stationary. The lax submucous tissue which connects the conjunctiva with the sclera permits the surgeon to slide flaps of conjunc- tiva. Its laxity accounts for the occurrence of subconjunctival hemorrhages after sudden, severe muscular effort, as in .paroxysms of whooping cough. The hemor- rhages, if associated with traumatism about the head, should be viewed with suspicion, as they may result from fracture of the anterior fossa of the skull with leakage of blood into the orbit. The blood does not become dark in color, but remains red, because oxygen passes to it through the conjunctiva. The corneal portion of the conjunctiva consists of layers of epithelial cells, and forms the anterior layer of the cornea. It is closely adherent, perfectly trans- parent, and gives the cornea its mirror-like characteristics. It contains no blood- vessels. Extensive destruction of the conjunctiva may be produced by caustics acci- dentally introduced Ix'tween the eyelids and the eyeball. This more frequently occurs under the lower eyelid, on account of its j)Osition. The lid may adhere to