476 SURGICAL ANATOMY. the hemisphere of the cerebrum in front of and above the main portion of the fissure of Sylvius, and that portion in front of the fissure of Rolando ; upon the ini^er surface it includes the corresponding portion of the hemisphere above the calloso-marginal fissure. There is generally no line of demarcation between the frontal and parietal lobes upon the mesial surface of the hemisphere, but exten- sion of the fissure of Rolando into the longitudinal fissure (a condition sometimes existing) designates the posterior limit of the frontal lobe on this surface. The Parietal Lobe includes that portion of the lateral surftice of the hemi- sphere of the cerebrum al)ove the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and a line representing the extension of the same limb backward to meet the posterior boundary of the lobe ; also behind the fissure of Rolando and in front of the lateral portion of the parieto-occipital fissure. Upon the inner surface it includes that part of the hemisphere in front of the mesial portion of the parieto-occipital fissure ; it is unlimited in front on this surface for want of a line of demarcation between it and the frontal lol)e, but, as previously stated, by extending the fissure of Rolando into the longitudinal fissure, its anterior superior limit would be repre- sented. The parietal lobe is only partly separated behind from the occipital lobe, by the lateral portion of the parieto-occipital fissure and the transverse occipital fissure ; the latter is a secondary fissure which is not always present. From the temporo-sphenoid lobe, below, there is no attempt at complete separation. At the lower margin of the lateral surface of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, between the occi})ital and temporo-sphenoid lobes, is the preoccipital notcli produced by the impression of the veins which enter the lateral sinus. If a line be drawn to this notch from the exti^emity of the lateral portion of the parieto-occipital fissure, the upper part of this line, with the lateral portion of the fissure, will about represent the junction of the parietal and occipital lobes. The lower part of the line will represent the line of junction of the occipital and temporo- sphenoid lobes. This notch must not be confounded with another inijiression, sometimes described as the preoccipital notch, produced by the su})erior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (Brooks). The Occipital Lobe includes that portion of the convex surface of the hemi- sphere of the cerebrum behind the lateral portion of the parieto-occipital fissure, and a line connecting the extremity of this fissure with the i^rcoccipital notcli. Upon the inner surface of the hemisphere it includes that part behind the mesial I)ortion of the parieto-occipital fissure. Upon the basilar surface there is no line of demarcation between it and the temporo-sphenoid lobe. The inferior surface of this lobe will be described with the same surface of the temporo-sphenoid, as two of the most important secondary fissures here seen occupy both of these lobes, and extend without breach of continuity from one to the other.