SURGICAL ANATOMY. 226 Malignant growths of the tonsil are not infrequent, and are best removed through an incision made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and^not through the movith, because the involved lymphatic glands can not be satisfactorily reached by the latter route. The Bucco-pharyngeal Fascia is a thin layer of deep fascia which covers the buccinator muscle and the constrictor muscle of the pharynx. It is continuous below with the delicate fibrous investment of the esophagus. Dissection.—Stuff the pharynx and esophagus with cotton, and carefully remove the fascia covering the esophagus, trachea, and the constrictor muscles of the phaiynx. The ascending pharyngeal artery, which is in relation with the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve, which lies in the groove between the esophagus and trachea, are the struc- tures most likely to be destroyed. The Esophagus is the narrow continuation of the pharynx. It begins at the lower, contracted end of the pharynx, opposite the sixth cervical vertebra and the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It passes downward behind the trachea, to enter the posterior mediastinum of the chest. At its beginning it lies in the median line, but at the lower part of the neck it inclines to the left side. Its mus- cular coat is seen to be continuous with the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. Relations.—In front of the esophagus, in the neck, are the trachea, left re- current laryngeal nerve, and the posterior surface of the left lobe of the thyroid gland. Behind it are the prevertebral fascia, the bodies of the vertebrae, and the longus coli muscles. On its right side are the right carotid sheath and its contents, the right recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the right lobe of the thyroid gland. On its left side are the left carotid sheath, the left common carotid and subclavian arteries, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the tlioracic duct, and the left lobe of the thyroid gland. The narrowest point in the esophagus is behind the lower border of-the cricoid cartilage and in front of the sixth cervical vertebra. This is the point at which a large foreign body, such as a set of false teeth, would be likely to lodge. If a foreign body can not be withdrawn through the mouth or pushed into the stomach, it becomes necessary to perform an esopliagotomy. This is done as follows : An incision is made along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid muscle, cutting skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoidcs muscle, some superficial vessels and nerves, superficial layer of the deep fascia, omo-hyoid muscle if necessary, pre- tracheal fascia, and esophagus. The carotid sheath and its contents must be dis- i)laced outward ; tlie trachea, thyroid gland, and sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles should be displaced inward. The superior and middle thyroid veins must