LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. 195 is the following: It may terminate as the submental artery, its area of distri- bution in the face being supplied by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the transverse facial, or the internal maxillary artery. The occipital artery is ligatured for cirsoid aneurysm. It may be tied at its origin, or as it passes through the occipital region. To tie it at its origin the shoulders should be elevated, the neck well extended, and an incision made along the upper part of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The origin of the artery will be found by tracing backward over the external carotid artery the hypo-glossal nerve, which winds from behind forward over that portion of the vessel. In the occipital region the artery may be secured through an incision carried obliquely backward and slightly upward from the tip of the mastoid process. The structures divided in the occipital region are the skin, superficial fascia, superficial nerves and vessels, superficial layer of the deep fascia, a portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, posterior process of the deep fascia (prevertebral fascia), and the splenius capitis muscle. The artery may be readily found in this region, at a point midway between the mastoid process and the external occipital protuberance. Irregularities.—The irregularities of the occipital artery which are of im- portance are the following : It may arise from the internal carotid artery or the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery ; it may cross over, instead of under, the upper portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; it may give origin to the posterior auricular or ascending pharyngeal artery. Irregularities of the ascending pharyngeal, posterior auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary arteries are not of much surgical importance. The superficial temporal artery, like the occipital, is ligatured in injuries and cirsoid aneurysm. The artery usually bifurcates into the anterior and posterior temporal one and one-half to two inches above the zygoma, but it frequently divides at a lower level. The artery may be felt pulsating just in front of the pinna of the ear, wdiere it crosses the posterior root of the zygoma ; this is the point at which it should be tied. The incision should be vertical, about one inch in length, and be made over the vessel in front of the pinna. The structures divided are the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. The superficial temporal vein lies behind the artery and overlaps it, and the auriculo-temporal nerve emerges from beneath the artery and vein, and then runs behind the vein. The temporal branches of the facial ne^-ve cross the artery and vein in the parotid gland. The needle should be passed from behind forward. The internal carotid artery is rarely ligatured, but may be tied after injury of the vessel and for traumatic aneurysm. The line for this vessel is the same as that for the common carotid artery. Its only accessible and superficial portion