THE EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. 639 made in the edematous prepuce to allow escape of serum, lessen tension, and permit the prepuce to jjass over the corona. Epitheliomatous and other malignant growths of the penis require ampu- tation of that organ. Amputation of the Penis may be performed by the circular or the flap method. Hemorrhage is to be limited by tying a rubber ligature around the penis above the point of amputation. The skin incisions are then made down to the tunica albuginea. The corpus spongiosum is separated from the corpora cavernosa, and severed by cutting downward and forward. The urethra is dis- sected out and the corpora cavernosa are divided. The urethra is sutured to the skin in such a manner that its extremity will always be free, or a small hole is made in the posterior flap, through which the urethra may be protruded and sutured to the edges of this opening. The parts divided in amputation of the penis include the skin, dartos, fascial sheath, the dorsal arteries, vein, and nerves, the corpora cavernosa Avith their surrounding tunica albuginea and contained arteries, and the corpus spon- giosum with the urethra, artery of the corpus spongiosum, and tunica albuginea of the corpus spongiosum. In an amputation of the penis the skin must not be drawn too far forward lest the stump be left uncovered, and in circumcision the penis may be left uncovered if the skin be drawn too far over the glans before severing the prepuce. Congenital malformations of the penis or of the urethra are not rare, although the more serious ones are not frequently seen. The external urinary meatus may be found on the side of the glans, near the pubis, or even in the groin. It may be circular, instead of a longitudinal slit, and may be so small tliat the ui'ine can not flow freely. The entire urethra may be absent, with exstrophy of the bladder; or the bladder may be entirely absent, the ureters then ending in the rectum. Different portions of the urethra may be too fully devel- oped, presenting diverticula, sinuses, or pouches, which may be affected by catai^- rhal or ulcerative processes. The fossa navicularis may be so developed that it will form a considerable pouch or culdesac. The verumontanum is sometimes so much enlarged as to obstruct the urethra. Hypospadias is a congenital defect in which there is faulty development of the floor of the urethra; the opening through which the urine escapes being situated at some point between the normal site of the meatus and the scrotum, or as far posterior as the perineum ])roper. Depending upon the position at m hich the urethra opens, the various foi'ms of hypospadias are known as gland alar, penile, and perineal. If the opening is situated in the perineum and associated Avith a cleft scrotum, the appearance will be that of a female, with the exception of