SURGICAL ANATOMY. 94 process of the atlas, to reach the groove on the under surface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. At its origin it is crossed by the hypo-glossal nerve. On its way to the mastoid process it crosses the internal carotid artery, the internal jugu- lar vein, the pneumogastric, hypo-glossal, and spinal accessory nerves, and passes beneath the lower portion of the parotid gland. It runs horizontally backward through the occipital groove of the temporal bone, covered by all the muscles attached to the mastoid process,—the sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis, trachelo- mastoid, and posterior belly of the digastric muscle,—and lies upon the superior oblique and complexus muscles. Reaching the back of the head, the artery pierces the trapezius muscle close to the superior curved line of the occipital bone, ascends, and divides into branches, as described under the Dissection of the Scalp. As it pierces the trapezius muscle and ramifies in the superficial fascia of the scalp, it is accompanied by the great occipital nerve. This vessel is conveniently divided by the sterno-mastoid muscle into three parts,—a first, a second, and a third portion,—situated respectively internal to, beneath, and external to that muscle. The first portion is covered only by skin and fasciae, except where it is overlapped by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the parotid gland, and the temporo-maxillary vein. It is crossed by the hypo-glossal nerve. Behind it successively lie .the internal carotid artery, the hypo-glossal and the pneumo- gastric nerve, the internal jugular vein, and the spinal accessory nerve. The first portion of the artery is the place of election for ligation. An incision is car- ried along the anterior border of the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle while the neck is well extended. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma m3^oides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided, and the artery is seen run- ning parallel with or beneath the lower border of the digastric muscle. The hypo- glossal nerve will be seen curving around the artery at its origin. The second por- tion dips deeply under the digastric muscle between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the transverse process of the atlas, being covered, as previously stated, by the muscles attached to the mastoid process, and lying successively against the rectus capitis lateralis, which separates it from the vertebral artery, the mastoid portion of the temporal bone while passing through the occipital groove, and finally against the insertion of the superior oblique muscle. The third portion emerges from beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles, lying upon the complexus in the triangular interval between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius, and piercing the trapezius muscle about midway between the mastoid process and the external occipital protuberance, to become subcutaneous and pass upward in the superficial foscia of the scalp. It is accompanied by the great occipital nerve. The Branches given off" from the occipital artery are the muscular, superior