THE LARYNX. 255 the crico-thyroid articulation. This dissection more thoroughly exposes the thyro- hyoid membrane, thyroid cartilage, crico-thyroid muscles, crico-thyroid membrane, and cricoid cartilage. The Thyro-hyoid Membrane, which is largely composed of elastic fibers, extends from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the posterior superior border of the hyoid bone. Its central portion is thick and strong, and its lateral portions are thin and pierced by the superior laryngeal arteries and internal laryngeal nerves on their way to the interior of the larynx. The thyro-hyoid bursa intervenes between the thyro-hyoid membrane and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone, and may be enlarged and produce a cystic tumor and swelling in the median line of the neck. Laterally, the thyro-hyoid membrane is continuous with the thyro-hyoid ligaments. Behind the thyro-hyoid membrane lies the epiglottis, from which it is separated by a small amount of loose areolar tissue. The Thyro-hyoid Ligaments are elastic bands connecting the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage with the tips of the greater cornua of the hyoid bone. They frequently contain a nodule of cartilage {cartilago triticea), which may be ossified. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages will be described later. The Crico-thyroid Muscle arises from the anterior portion of the side of the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the anterior border of the inferior cornu and the outer surface of the lower border of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Its upper fibers pass obliquely upward and backward, and its lower fibers horizontally backward. At its insertion it blends with the origin of the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. It rests upon the cricoid cartilage and lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane. In the interval betAveen the two crico-thyroid muscles the central portion of the crico-thyroid membrane is seen. Nerve Supply.—From the external laryngeal branch of the suj^erior laryn- geal nerve. Action.—It depresses the anterior portion of the thyroid cartilage, thus mak- ing the vocal cords tense. Dissection.—Remove the crico-thyroid muscle on one side, in order to more fully expose the crico-thyroid membrane. The Crico-thyroid Membrane is chiefly composed of elastic fibers. It is divided into a central and two lateral portions, which are lined by the mucous membrane of the larynx. The central portion is thicker and stronger than the lateral portions, and extends from the middle of the upper border of the anterior portion of the cricoid cartilage to the corresponding portion of the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. Near the lower border of the thyroid cartilage it is crossed by the anastomosing crico-thyroid branches of the superior thyroid arteries, and is