DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 153 pierces the middle scalene muscle, and passes backward beneath the levator anguli scapulae muscle to the under surface of the rhomboidei muscles, Avhich, with the levator anguli scapulae muscle, it supplies. It accompanies the posterior scapu- lar arter3^ The nerves to the scaleni and longus colli muscles arise from the lower three cervical nerves near the intervertebral foramina. The posterior or long thoracic nerve (external respiratory nerve of Bell) arises within the substance of the scalenus medius muscle from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. The first two roots pierce the scalenus medius muscle below the nerve to the rhomboidei muscles, and the last root passes in front of the scalenus medius muscle. The long thoracic nerve passes downward behind the trunks of the axillary plexus and the subclavian vessels, and enters the axilla by way of the apex. Here it lies upon the serratus magnus muscle, which it supplies. Communicating.—Usually a branch from the fifth cervical nerve joins the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalene muscle. The supra-scapular nerve, the largest of the branches given off above the clavicle, arises from the upper cervical trunk near the nerve to the subclavius mus- cle. It passes downward and outward beneath the trapezius and the posterior Ijelly of the omo-hyoid muscle to the upper border of the scapula, where it is in relation with the supra-scapular artery. It passes through the supra-scapular notch, being separated from the artery by the transverse ligament, and enters the supra-spinous fossa. It supplies the supra-spinatus muscle, winds arouiad the base of the spine of the scapula, and sends articular branches to the shoulder-joint, after Avliich it terminates in the infra-spinatus muscle. The scalene muscles.—The scalene muscles are three in number: the anterior, the middle, and the posterior. The anterior scalene muscle arises from the anterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras, and is inserted into the tubercle on the inner border and upper surface of the first rib in front of the groove for the subclavian arter3\ It is most deejDly situated below. In relation with its anterior surface are the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves, the transversalis colli, supra-scapular, and ascending cervical arteries, the internal jugular and subclavian veins, the subclavius and omo-hyoid muscles, and the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid muscle. On the left side the thoracic duct crosses in front of the muscle. Along the inner border of the muscle, above, lies the rectus capitis anticus major muscle ; the vertebral artery and vein, the inferior thyroid artery and sympathetic nerves, which separate it from the longus colli muscle, lie along the inner side of the lower part of the muscle.