608 SURGICAL ANATOMY. penis and erector penis mnscle of one side, and remove the accelerator urinse muscle from the bulb. The anterior layer of the triangular ligament, the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, and the dorsal artery, vein, and nerve of the penis are now exposed. The Triangular Ligament is a strong fibrous membrane which stretches across that portion of the outlet of the pelvis occiipied by the perineum proper. It measures about an inch and a half, or four centimeters, from base to apex, its base being directed backward and its apex forward. Like the obturator membrane, it is part of the ligamentous wall of the pelvis. This dense aponeurotic mem- brane has been described as the inferior or superficial layer of the triangvilar liga- ment, and the fascial partition passing on the deep surface of the compressor urethrse muscle has been called the superior or deep layer of the triangular ligament. In front the triangular ligament is attached to the subpubic ligament, except in the center, where the dorsal vein of the penis passes between these two structures ; laterally, to the rami of the pubes and ischium more deeply than the crus penis; and near its base, in the median line, it blends with the central tendon of the perineum in the interval between the urethra and rectum. The base of the triangular ligament is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia ; and its deep surface near its base, with the anal fascia and tlie superior layer of the ligament. Near the subpubic ligament some of the fibers of the triangular ligament pass from one side of the pubic arch to the other, forming the transverse perineal liga- ment. In relation with the superficial surface of the triangular ligament are the contents of the superficial intra-aponeurotic space of the perineum previously de- scribed. Some of the fibers of the ligament are reflected upon the bulb of the cor- pus spongiosum, and strengthen its fibrous investment. About one inch, or two and one-half centimeters, below the symphysis pubis the triangular ligament is perforated by the urethra. It is also pierced by the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, the dorsal arteries and nerves of the penis, the arteries to the bulb, and the ducts of Cowper's glands, and, finally, at the base, where it becomes con- tinuous with the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia, by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. In cases of rupture of the spongy uretlira tlie triangular ligament prevents the urine from gaining access to the pelvis, and in cases of rupture of the membranous urethra it prevents the urine from escaping from the pelvis into the more superficial tissues of the perineum. The first obstruction to the passage of an instrument through the urethra, provided it contains no strictures and is otherwise normal, is the lower margin of the urethral orifice of the triangular ligament; this natural obstruction is to be borne in mind when passing such an instrument. The base of this ligament is