58 SURGICAL ANATOMY. tions emerge from the cranial cavity together through the jugular foramen, just external to which the accessory portion joins the ganglion of the root of the pneu- mogastric nerve. The spinal portion then passes successively l^ehind the internal jugular vein, the posterior belly of the digastric, ai^d the stylo-hyoid muscle, to enter the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, entering its under surface mid- way between its two borders and one inch below the tip of the mastoid process. It leaves the muscle at the middle of the posterior border. Within the sterno- mastoid muscle it is joined by a branch of the second cervical nerve. The superior sterno-mastoid artery accompanies the nerve into the muscle, wdiich it supplies. Having pierced the sterno-mastoid muscle, it crosses the occipital triangle obliquely downward and backward to enter and supply the trapezius muscle. For the relief of spasmodic torticollis, resection of a portion of the spinal accessory nerve may be performed. The spinal accessory nerve may be exposed at one of three points—just before it enters the sterno-mastoid muscle, in the substance of the muscle, or at the posterior border of the muscle. Of these methods, the first is the best. To expose the nerve before it enters the muscle, the head and neck should be well extended, and an incision made along the anterior border of the upper one-third of the muscle, dividing skin, superficial fascia, some fibers of the platysma myoides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia, avoiding, if possible, the external jugular vein. Displace the sterno-mastoid muscle out- ward, when the nerve will be found beneath the prevertebral fascia and passing from beneath the sheath of the internal jugular vein, to enter the muscle about an inch below the tip of the mastoid process. The prominent transverse process of the atlas lies above the nerve, and serves as a deep guide in locating it. To expose the nerve in the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle an incision should be made in the middle line of the muscle. The muscle fibers are separated and the nerve exposed as it passes through the deeper portion just above the level of the thyroid cartilage. The skin, superficial fascia, fibers of the platysma myoides muscle, superficial layer of the deep fascia, the sterno-mastoid muscle, and the superior and middle sterno-mastoid arteries will be cut. The external jugular vein should, if possible, be avoided. To exi)ose the nerve along the posterior border of the muscle carry an incision along the middle one-third of that border. The skin, superficial fascia, fibers of the platysma myoides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia will be divided. The occipitalis minor nerve will be seen running upward along the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Trace this nerve downward, and locate the spinal accessory nerve as it emerges from the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle on a level with tlic u])per l)order of the thyroid cartilage. Tlic middle sterno-mastoid artery.—The middle sterno-mastoid artery will