SURGICAL ANATOMY. 470 The Primary Fissures of the Cerebrum are, in the order of their impor- tance, the fissure of Rolando or the sulcus centralis, the fissure of Sylvius, and the parieto-occipital fissure. The fissure of Sylvius is found partly on the inferior, or bftsilar, and chiefly on the outer, convex, or lateral surface of the cerebrum ; the fissure of Rolando, or sulcus centralis, only on the lateral surface of the cerebrum ; and the parieto-occipital fissure, chiefly on the median or inner surface, and slightly on the outer surface of the cerebrum. The fissure of Sylvius, within which is lodged the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone, and through which passes the middle cerebral artery, commences on the basilar surface of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, at the anterior perforated space, in a depression called the vallecula Sylvii. Thence it extends outward to the external convex surface of the cerebrum, where it divides into two limbs : an ascending or vertical and a posterior or horizontal, which runs backward and upward to end in the parietal lobe. The main portion of the fissure is that which occupies the base of the brain. The ascending limb passes upward for about one inch, or twenty-five millimeters, into the frontal lobe in front of the precentral fissure, and is separated from the latter by the posterior part of the inferior or third frontal convolution, which arches around the end of the ascending limb.. Immediately in advance of the ascending limb there runs forvyard and upward from the main portion of the fissure a third limb, the anterior limb. .This limb, which is nearly of the same length as the ascending limb, runs directly forward into the substance of the inferior frontal convolution. The island of Reil, or the central lobe, is seen in the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius at the angle of separation of the ascending and horizontal limbs by draw- ing widely apart the sides of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius and lift- ing the operculum. It comprises a series of from five to seven small convolutions, surrounded by a limiting sulcus (sulcus circularis Reilii). The convolutions of this lobe are arranged so that they radiate from the apex, which looks downward and forward. A fissure, the sulcus centralis Reilii, running in about the same direction as the fissure of Rolando, divides it into an anterior and a posterior portion. Additional smaller fissures are seen between the convolutions of the island of Reil. The operculum is that portion of the hemisphere of the cerebrum formed by the base of the inferior frontal convolution, the lower end of the ascending frontal and lower part of the ascending parietal convolution, and therefore immediately overhangs the island of Reil. The latter is external to the corpus striatum, and its fissures accommodate some of the branches of the middle cerebral artery. Calloso-marginal Fissure.—Before attempting to trace the course of the fissure of Rolando, examine the inner surface of the hemisphere of the cerebrum and locate a secondary fissure running above the corpus callosum. It lies midway