374 SURGICAL ANATOMY. should be made through the sclera and carried backward to about one-c^uarter of an inch from the posterior polo of the eye. The fla})s thus formed should be ginned back, and the whole preparation placed in dilute alcohol held in a Avax- or cork-lined tray. With delicate forceps and scissors the iris is then removed, when an anterior view of the ciliary processes may be had. The ciliary processes are some seventy or eighty irregular projections from the internal surface of the ciliary body. They are longitudinal folds of the forward continuation of the choroid. Their broader extremities are directed forward and form a circle,—corona ciliaris,—which gives attachment to the suspen- .sor}' ligament of the lens. Toward the j)osterior part of the ciliary body they become less prominent and subdivide, the inner surface of the ciliary body here being almost smooth and forming the orbieulus ciliaris. The ciliary processes are the most vascular portion of the eyeball; like the choroid, they are composed of a connective-ti.ssue stroma, pigment, and numerous blood-vessels. By osmosis from the blood-vessels of the eyeball the aqueous humor is supposed to be replenished. As the iris and the anterior portion of the ciliary body are continuous and their blood-vessels are in free communication, iritis seldom exists without cyclitis; hence the resultant disease is called irido-cyclitis. The choroid proper extends from the posterior termination of the ciliary body to the optic nerve, by which it is pierced. It is found in the posterior portion of the globe, like the sclera, and consists mainly of blood-vessels, areolar tissue, and pigment. Externally, it is in relation with the sclerotic coat, to which it is connected by its outermost layer—the lamina suprachoroidea ; internally, it is in contact with the pigment layer of the retina. It is composed of four layers—viz., the lamina suprachoroidea, the layer containing large vessels, the chorio-capillaris, and the lamina vitrea. Its outer layer, the lamina suprachoroidea, is in immediate contact with the sclera, and is composed of loose areolar, nonvascular tissue containing pigment. This layer is so loosely connected with the lamina fusca of the sclera that extensive hemor- rhages may occur between the sclera and choroid after traumatism of the eye. The third and fourth layers are vascular in character. The third is the layer of choroid stroma, and contains large blood-vessels. The most conspicuous of these vessels are the four venre voriicosx, each of which is formed by numbers of veins converging at one point and forming a whorl. They are located at equidistant points along the equator of the eyeball, and to tliem the small veins converge, returning the blood from the whole uveal tract. The chorio-capillaris is the inner vascular layer, and is composed of capillary blood-vessels. The lamina vitrea, vitreous or glassy lamina, is the fourth or internal layer. It supports the retinal pigment, which usually adheres to it when the retina is removed.