THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 503 The base of the third frontal convohition and, to a shght degree, the loAver end of the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions include the centers for the movements of the lips and tongue in talking. This region is known as Broca's region, disease of which on the left side causes aphasia, or loss of the power of speech. The speech center, however, is not always in the left side of the brain. In left-handed persons it is located, as has been demonstrated clini- cally, in the base of the right third frontal convolvition. Aphasia is of two varieties, the motor or ataxic, and the sensory or amnesic. In the motor variety there is inability to properly coordinate the muscles presiding over articulation, while in the sensory variety there is loss of memory for words. The speech center is connected with the centers of hearing and vision through the medium of the associating fibers of the cerebrum, and also, through the medium of the speech tract, with the centers in the medulla oblongata which give origin to the nerves which are employed in speech. Only through this connection between the speech center, the centers of hearing, and the centers of vision can the two forms of sensory aphasia—namely, word-deafness and word-blindness— be understood. The ability to write is, as a rule, lost in cases of destruction of the motor area for speech. The lower third of the ascending parietal convolution, at its junction with the inferior parietal, includes the center which controls the movements of the platysma myoides muscle in bringing about retraction of the angle of the mouth. The base of the middle frontal convolution includes the center for lateral movements of the head and eyes, with elevation of the eyelids and dilatation of the pupil. The middle third of the ascending parietal convolution includes the centers for the movements of the fingers and wrist. The cortical centers for the different muscles and limbs overlap to a certain extent, so that while there is a more or less distinct focus of representation for a given set of muscles, adjacent parts of the cortex are also concerned in governing the muscles presided over by the focus ; hence total paralysis does not necessarily follow removal of a limited area of the cortex of the cerebrum. The supra-marginal and angular convolutions, in addition to the occipital lobe, include the centers of visioyi; these, taken together, have been termed by Ferrier the occipito-angular regiori. The posterior part of the superior temporo- sphenoid convolution includes the centers of hearing. The anterior extremity of the hippocampal convolution or uncus includes the center of smell, while in close proximity to the center of smell is the center of taste. The convolution of the corpus callosum and the posterior part of the hippocampal convolution include the center of touch. Each occipital lobe receives visual impulses from one-half of both retinas, so