73 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. the inner contains the common carotid artery, the outer the internal jugular vein, and the posterior the pneumogastric nerve. The descendens hypoglossi nerve (descendens noni) is usually seen lying in front of the carotid sheath, but occasionally it lies within the anterior wall of the sheath. It is given off from the hypo-glossal nerve as the latter winds around the occipital artery. It is not a true branch of the hypo-glossal nerve, its fibers origi- nally arising from the cervical plexus and running with the trunk of the hypo- glossal nerve for a short distance. It communicates with the communicantes hypoglossi, deep branches of the cervical plexus, thus forming a loop known as the ansa hypoglossi, which supplies the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and both bellies of the omo-hyoid muscle. Lymphatic glands.—In relation with the outer wall of the sheath of the vessels, observe the deep chain of lymphatic glands; these glands are in commu- nication with the superficial chain, and therefore in enlargement of the latter the deep chain is more or less involved. Every surgeon who has had experience in the removal of glandular tumors of the neck appreciates this fact when forced to carry the dissection to the extent of exposing the carotid sheath for some distance if he would remove all enlarged glands. In cases where it is not possible to make a good exposure and dissect with safety around the vessels by simply displacing the sterno-mastoid muscle, it will be necessary to divide the muscle. In making a difficult dissection in a region rich in important structures success is obtained only by having a good exposure, which necessitates a large wound. Dissection.—Remove the deep chain of lymphatic glands together with the fat and connective tissue around them, and lay open the sheath, when the carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve will be brought into view. The internal jugular vein lies to the outer side of the common carotid artery, while the pneumogastric nerve lies between the vein and artery in a plane posterior to both. The internal jugular vein is the continuation of the lateral sinus, and begins at the jugular foramen, where that sinus is joined by the inferior petrosal sinus. The vein is somewhat dilated at it origin, this enlargement constituting the so-called hulh or sinus, which lies in the jugular fossa. At the jugular foramen the vein lies behind and external to the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. It passes down the side of the neck, at first beneath and external to the internal carotid artery, then on the outer side of the internal carotid, and, finally, on the outer side of the common carotid artery. It terminates by joining the subclavian vein just external to the upper margin of the sterno- clavicular articulation to form the innominate vein. It occupies the outer com- partment of the carotid sheath, and is separated from the common carotid artery