SURGICAL ANATOMY. 126 with the movements of the larynx. Enlargement of the left lobe of the gland is more likely to occasion difficulty in swallowing than a similar condition on the eight side, owing to the inclination of the esophagus toward the left. In a case mentioned by Allan Burns, the isthmus was located between the trachea and the esophagus. It is very evident that enlargement of this portion of the gland hold- ing such abnormal relation would occasion great difficulty in swallowing. The author has seen a case of goiter in which the esophagus was so nearly occluded that the patient, an old woman, was no longer able to swallow liquids. Atrophy of the thyroid gland, or its destruction by disease, is apt to be followed by the condi- tion known as myxedema. Absence of the thyroid gland in children causes cretinism and idiocy. The arteries of the thyroid gland—two on each side—are the superior and inferior thyroid. The superior thyroid, a branch of the external carotid artery, ramifies chiefly upon the anterior aspect of the gland, while the inferior thyroid, a branch of the thyroid axis, enters the under and inner surface of the lateral lobe of the gland. A very free anastomosis is established between these vessels, which form a complete network around the acini in the substance of the gland. Occasionally there is a middle thyroid artery (thyroidea? ima), a branch of the innominate artery or arch of the aorta, which ascends in front of the trachea and enters the isthmus of the gland. The thyroid gland is surrounded by a thin, dense, fibrous capsule, which is derived from the pretracheal fascia and sends processes into the interior which separate the suljstance into lobules of varying form and size. The vesicles com- posing these lobules are lined by a single layer of columnar epithelium and contain a colloid substance. Increase of this colloid substance constitutes a form of goiter. The nerves of the thyroid gland are derived from the middle and lower cervical sympathetic ganglia, and accompany the inferior thyroid artery. The thyroid veins, three on each side, are the superior, the middle, and the inferior thyroid. The superior and middle thyroid veins cross in front of the common carotid artery, emptying into the internal jugular vein. The inferior thyroid veins descend on the trachea, form a plexus in front of the pretracheal fascia, and behind the sterno-thyroid muscles, and empty into the left innominate vein. The numerous and large lymphatics pass to tlie lymph trunks at the root of the neck. In some cases these lymphatics have been found to contain colloid substance, giving rise to the supposition that they act as ducts of the gland. Thyroidectomy.—In the operation of removal of half of the thyroid gland in either bilateral or unilateral goiter (bronchocele) the incision may be made parallel with the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, or a transverse curved incision, concave upward, may be carried over the most prominent ])ortion