THE PHARYNX. 231 from the lower one-third of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate, from the hamular process of that plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and the side of the base of the tongue. Its fibers pass backward to be inserted into the median raphe. The lower fibers are overlap})ed by the middle constrictor muscle. The upper fibers curve upward, and have a tendinous attachment to the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. The upper margin is crescentic, and situated some distance from the base of the skull, leaving a semilunar interval—tlie sinus of Morgagni. The floor of the sinus of Morgagni is formed by the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The upper border of the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx is in relation with the levator palati muscle and the Eustachian tube. The superior constrictor muscle with the pharyngeal aponeurosis separate the ascending pharyngeal and internal carotid arteries from the tonsil. Nerve Supply.—The constrictor muscles of the pharynx derive their nerve supply from the pharyngeal plexus. The inferior constrictor muscle receives additional branches from the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. Tetanus often presents its first symptom as spasm of those muscles of masti- cation which elevate the lower jaw,—viz., the masseter, temporal and internal pterygoid muscles,—and of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Consequently, the patient can not open the mouth, and deglutition, or swallowing, is difficult or causes choking sensations. Spasm of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx and difficult deglutition are also prominent symptoms of hydrophobia. The Pharyngeal Plexus of Nerves is found chiefly upon the middle con- strictor muscle. It is formed by the pharyngeal branches of the preumogastric, external laryngeal, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and of the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion. It supplies the muscular and other coats of the pharynx. The Pterygo-maxillary Ligament is a fibrous raphe between the buccinator and suj^erior constrictor muscles, and extends from the lower extremity of the internal pterygoid plate to the posterior end of the mylo-hyoid ridge or internal oblique line of the lower jaw. The Pharyngeal Aponeurosis, the fibrous coat of the pharynx, is dense and strong where the muscular coat is absent,—viz., at the sinuses of Morgagni and in the triangular intervals between the origins of the constrictor muscles,—and be- comes delicate and fades away below. It holds the pharynx open by means of its attachment to the basilar process of the occipital bone, the cartilages in the middle lacerated foramina, the apices of the petrous portions of the temporal bones, the posterior borders of the internal pterygoid plates, the greater cornua of the hyoid bone, and the posterior borders of the alse ot the thyroid cartilage.