165 LIGATION OF ARTERIES OF HEAD AND NECK. innominate artery. In front of the innominate artery are the bternnm, right sterno-clavicular joint, sterno-liyoid and sterno-tliyroid mnscles, and the remains of the thymus gland. The left innominate vein crosses it at its origin, and the right inferior thyroid vein descends obliquely over its lower and inner part. Behind it are the trachea and right pleura. To its right side are the right innominate vein, riglit pneumogastric nerve, and pleura. To its left side are the inferior thyroid veins, left common carotid artery, remains of the tliymus gland, and, at its upper end, the trachea. The innominate artery divides most frequently at the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation ; it occasionally divides lower, but seldom higher. Its depth and relation to import- ant and delicate structures render the operation of ligation a difficult one. The incision should be carried along the anterior border of the right sterno-mastoid muscle to the upper margin of the sternum, and thence along the right clavicle. An angular incision is thus made, each part of which should be about three inches in length. The superficial incision divides the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and supra-sternal and siipra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus. The triangular flap of skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides muscle should next be turned upward. * The superficial layer of the deep fascia, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and inner part of the sterno-mastoid muscle are next divided. The anterior jugular vein, which may recpiire division between ligatures, runs transversely under the lower end of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The sheath of the common carotid artery should be opened and the artery traced downward to the innominate artery. Tlie aneurysm needle, directed slightly downward, should be carefully passed around the artery, from Avithout inward. In doing this, the dangers to be guarded against are punctures of the innominate vein and pleura. Collateral Circulation.—The collateral circulation is established by the following anastomoses : Proximal. Distal. Aortic intercostal arteries with Superior intercostal artery. Internal mammary artery. Superior thoracic artery. Long thoracic artery. Subscapular artery. ^ Posterior scapular artery. Phrenic artery Deep epigastric artery with Internal niannnary artery. Thyroidea ima artery with