112 SURGICAL ANATOMY. forward ; acting from below, they tend to depress the chin. Contraction of this muscle in epileptic convulsions causes the tongue to protrude from the mouth, and ilfmay thus be bitten. In certain fractures of the lower jaw, as well as in some operations about the tongue and floor of the mouth in which the origin of this muscle is detached, the tcaigue has a tendency to fall backward over the superior aperture of the larynx, and respiration may be embarrassed. During anesthetiza- tion the base of the tongue at times falls backward, and breathing becomes labored ; by carrying the angles of the lower jaw forward, the genio-hyo-glossus muscles are made to pull the tongue forward, and thus to relieve the difficulty. If the genio-hyo-glossus muscle of one side is paralyzed and the patient is asked to protrude the tongue, the sound muscle pulls its own side of tlie base of the tongue forward, whereas the other side is not acted upon ; the tip of the organ will con- sequently protrude toward the paralyzed side. The lingual vein arises near the tip of the tongue, where it is also known as the ranine vein. It receives a branch of the superior thyroid vein and the venee comites of the lingual artery, the tributaries of which correspond to the branches of the lingual artery. It accompanies the hypo-glossal nerve over the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, which separates it from the lingual artery. It passes beneath the stylo-hyoicl and posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and empties into the internal jugular or facial vein. When the lingual vein empties into the internal jugular vein, it crosses the external carotid artery at about the level of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The hypo-glossal nerve.—Its course as far as the point where it jjasses beneath the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle has been described. In the submaxillary triangle it lies on the hyo-glossus muscle, accompanied by the lingual vein, and communicates with the gustatory or lingual nerve at the anterior border of that muscle, from which point it continues forward to the tip of the tongue in the substance of the genio-liyo-glossus muscle. The gustatory or lingual nerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, and for some little distance from its origin it lies in the pterygo- maxillary region. This portion of the nerve has been described under the Dissec- tion of the Pterygo-maxillary Region. Passing between the ranuis of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle it leaves the pterygo-maxillary region, inclines forward along the side of the tongue, and runs upon the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx and between the stylo-glossus muscle and the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. It next crosses the uj)pcr part of tlu; hyo-glossus muscle and Wharton's duct, whence it passes between the mylo-hyoid muscle and the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth along the side of the tongue to its tip. Two or more branches connect the gustatory nerve with the submaxillary