SURGICAL ANATOMY. 586 the ethmoid bone rupture of the olfactory nerves may cause loss of tlie sense of smell. In fractures at the middle cranial fossa blood and cerebro-s})inal fluid may escape from the ear. To permit cerebro-spinal fluid to escape in this manner, the arachnoid, dura mater, bone and mucous membrane of the wall of the tym- panum, and membrana tympani must be ruptured. In fracture of the base at this fossa the cavernous sinus may be ruptured, and if the fracture extend across the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the superior petrosal sinus, and the facial and auditory nerves may be injured. Laceration of the facial nerve causes paralysis of the muscles of expression and of the buccinator muscle ; laceration of the auditory nerve causes deafness. In fractures of the base of the skull at the jwsterior cranial fossa blood may be extravasated into tlie tissues of the na})e or posterior triangle of the neck. The symptoms of fracture of the skull are chiefly those of compression of the brain, produced by extravasated blood which arises from rupture of the meningeal vessels, sinuses of the dura mater, and diploic veins. Fractures of the Bones of the Face are the result of direct violence. In fracture of the nasal bones emphysema of the soft tissues may occur. In fracture of the lacrymal bone obstruction of the nasal duct may cause the tears to flow over the cheek, and laceration of the muco-periosteal wall of the duct may induce emphysema of the soft tissues. In comminuted fracture of the zygomatic arch fragments of bone driven into the temporal muscle may interfere with the move- ments of the lower jaw in mastication. Fracture of the bone of the upper jaw may cause profuse hemorrhage from a ruptured infra-orbital, superior dental, anterior palatine, or posterior {)alatine artery. Fracture of the lower jaw occurs more frequently than fracture of anv other bone of the face. It is usually broken by direct violence. In fractures of the rteck of tlie lower jaw the condyle is drawn forward by the external pterygoid muscle. Imperfect apposition and persistent mobility of the fragments ma}*^ induce excessive formation of callus, which ma}^ subsequently cause more or less ankylosis of the temporo-maxillary articulation. In fracture of the ramus of the bone there is slight displacement of the fragments, as the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles act as splints. In fracture in front of the attachment of tlie masseter nniscle the posterior fragment is drawn ui)\vard by the masseter, temporal, and intei'nal pterygoid muscles ; if the plane of fracture extends obliquely backward and outward, the posterior fragment is also drawn inward by the internal pterygoid muscle. The anterior fragment is carried downward by the fracturing force, the platysma myoide-s, digastric, m^do-hyoid, genio-liyoid, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. In double fracture at tlie mental foramina tlie middle fragment is carried downward