THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 423 through the perivascular lymphatics and the veins Avhich pierce the tegmen, extradural abscess, meningitis, thrombosis of the superior petrosal sinus, and cerebral and cerebellar abscess may result from otitis media and mastoid disease. Thrombosis of the sigmoid sinus and consequent septic embolism may occur by extension of the inflammation along the veins from the mastoid antrum, mastoid cells, and tympanum which empty into the sigmoid sinus. In otitis media tlie pus usually escapes by perforation of the merabrana tympani, and may pass out tlirongh the Eustachian tube into the pharynx, or through the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. In mastoid disease the pus usually escapes through the tympanum and membrana tympani, and may, after destruction of the compact bone on the intracranial surface of the mastoid process, enter the cranial cavity and form an extradural abscess; or it may enter the neck over or under the prevertebral fascia, point on the external surface of the mastoid process, or escape directly into the external auditory meatus. The Auditory Ossicles consist of the malleus, the incus, and the stapes, which form a chain of three small bones that transmit the impulses of sound waves from the membrana tympani to the perilymph and endolymph of the internal ear. The ossicles and the ligaments and tendons attached to them are covered by the mucous membrane of the tympanum. The malleus, or hammer, consists of a head, a neck, a handle, or manu- brium, the processus brevis, and the processus gracilis. The rounded Itead is situated in the attic, the highest portion of the tympanic cavity, and above the level of the membrana tyn.pani; it is connected with the roof of the cavity by fibrous tissue which forms the so-called superior ligament of the malleus. On the posterior aspect of the head of the malleus is a cartilage-covered surface which articulates with the body of the incus. Below the head of the malleus is the neck. The manubrium, or handle, is connected with the fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane, and is situated between this layer and the mucous lining. The processus brevis is a small prominence below the neck, and gives attachment to the tensor tympani muscle. The processus gracilis is a long and slender process which passes forward to the Glaserian fissure. In the adult it is often largely represented by fibrous tissue. The incus, or anvil, resembles in shape a bicuspid tooth with diverging fangs; it consists of a body and two processes. The body presents a concavo- convex articular surface for the head of the malleus ; the joint between these bones is surrounded by a capsular ligament and lined by a synovial membrane. The short process passes backward, and is connected to the posterior wall of the tympanum by fibrous tissue. The long process descends almost parallel with the manubrium of the malleus, but posterior and internal to it. It terminates in a