312 SURGICAL ANATOMY. continues to enlarge, it may bulge the anterior wall or orbital wall of the sinus and displace the eyeball. It can be removed by trephining the anterior wall of the jinus. Dissection.—The antrum of Highmore, or maxillary sinus, should be opened by sawing away part of its external wall. The antrum of Highmore, or maxillary sinus, is an accessory air chamber of the nose, and is situated in the superior maxillary bone. It is irregularly p3'ram- idal in shape, the base of the joyramid being directed toward the nose, and the apex toward the malar process of the superior maxilla. The base is formed by the external wall of the nasal fossa—i. e., by the nasal surface of the superior maxilla, the maxillary process of the inferior turbinated bone, the uncinate process of the ethmoid bone, the vertical plate of the palate bone, and the lacrymal bone. In the upper and posterior part of this surface is the orifice of the sinus, which is so situated that drainage from the antrum is defective. Consequently, mucus or pus may be retained in the cavity, forming a mucocele or empyema of the antrum. The roof of the antrum is formed by the orbital plate of the superior maxilla, the floor by the alveolar j)rocess of the superior maxilla, the anterior or external wall by the facial surface of the superior maxilla, and the posterior wall by the zygomatic surface of the superior maxilla. The antrum is usually larger in the male than in the female. In 3'oung subjects the antrum is small and its walls are quite thick ; absorptive processes in old age may cause a defect in the anterior bony Avail. The two antra are fre- quently asymmetric in size and shape. The roots of the first and second molar teeth often, and those of the premolars and canine teeth occasionally, form promi- nences in the floor of the cavity. It is evident that caries of these teeth and their fangs may lead to antral disease. The mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus is thinner and less vascular than that of the nasal fossa. The orifice of the antrum opens into the lower part of the hiatus semilunaris and the middle meatus of the nose. The orifice is small and rounded or elliptic. In empyema and mucocele of the antrum the orifice is usually closed by thicken- ing of the mucous membrane of the nose in rhinitis. There may be one or more additional orifices leading into the nasal fossa. The tumors which originate in the antrum may be either malignant or benign. By pressui'e upon the walls of the sinus they encroach upon the orbital and nasal fossse, lacrymal duct, pterygo-maxillary region, and mouth, and cause bulging of the cheek. The malignant tumors are removed by excising the superior maxilla. Empyema, or abscess of the antrum, may be caused by extension of catarrh from the nose to the antrum, with occlusion of the antral orifice, retention of