603 MALE PERINEUM. inal wall, it accumulates beneath the superficial fascia in this location, being unable to pass to the anterior surface of the thighs on account of the attach- ment of the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen to the deep fascia along Poupart's ligament and the outer lip of the crest of the ilium. Pus or blood within the superficial perineal interspace, if the effusion be extensive enough, will follow the same course. Owing to the density and attachments of the deep layer of the superficial fascia there will be little or no fluctuation in the perineum in cases of extravasated urine, and in abscess only a firm and tender swelling will be present. Dissection.—The deep layer of the superficial fascia is removed by carrying a vertical incision from the base of the scrotum along the middle line as far as the posterior limit of the urethral triangle, where, at right angles to the first, a second incision is made, extending outward upon each side to the tuberosity of the ischium, thus severing its connection with the lower margin of the triangular liga- ment ; each half can then be reflected laterally. This will expose the vessels, nerves, and muscles situated in the superficial intra-aponeurotic space. By displac- ing the adjacent borders of the accelerator urinae and erector penis muscles the anterior layer of the triangular ligament can be seen. The Superficial Perineal Artery arises from the internal pudic at the anterior and outer part of the iscliio-rectal fossa. It pierces Colles' fascia at its junction with the base of the triangular ligament, and runs over, under, or through the transverse perineal muscle ; thence forward, between the accelerator urinae and the erector penis muscle, both of which it supplies, and is finally distributed to the scrotum, where it anastomoses with the external pudic branches of the common femoral artery. It is accompanied by the anterior superficial perineal nerve. The Transverse Perineal Artery arises more commonly from the superficial perineal, where this vessel is in relation with the transverse perineal muscle ; it may arise from the internal pudic artery. It runs inward, over, or under the transverse perineal muscle, which it supplies, to the central point of the perineum, where it anastomoses with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. It is severed in the operation of lateral lithotomy. The Veins accompanying the foregoing arteries empty into the internal pubic vein. The Cutaneous Nerves of the Perineum are the two superficial perineal (ante- rior and posterior) and the inferior pudendal. The anterior superficial perineal nerve, a branch of the perineal division of the pudic in the ischio-rectal fossa, pierces Colles' fascia at its junction with the base of the triangular ligaments, passes over, under, or through the transverse perineal muscle, and accompanies the superficial perineal artery to the scrotum.