574 SURGICAL ANATOMY. The external lateral ligament is attached above to the lower margin of the zj'goma and the tubercle of the zygoma, its fibers passing downward and back- ward to be attached below to the outer surface and posterior margin of the neck of the lower jaw. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is situated between the articular surfaces of the bones entering into the formation of the joint. Through conformation to these surfaces its upper surface is concavo-convex from before backward and convex laterall}', and the posterior portion of its under surface is concave, to ht the con- dyle. It is thinner at its center, and thickest posteriorly, where it acts as a bufl'er and protects the thin bone of the glenoid fossa. ItS'margins are attached to tlie capsular ligament, and some of the fibers of the tendon of the external pterygoid muscle pass between the fibers of the anterior portion of the capsular ligament, to be inserted into the anterior margin of the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The synovial membranes are two in number, the sujjerior synovial mem- brane being separated from the inferior by the interarticular fibro-cartilage. When the interarticular fibro-cartilage is i:)erforated, the two synovial sacs com- municate. The spheno-mandibular or internal lateral ligament is attached above to the spine of the greater wing of the sphenoid l)one and adjacent part of the temporal bone, and below to the s})ine of Spix, or mandibular spine, which is situated on the inner surface of the lower jaw, below and internal to the inferior dental for- amen. The internal lateral ligament is separated from the temporo-maxillary joint and lower jaw by the internal maxillary artery and vein, the middle meningeal artery, the external pterygoid muscle, the inferior dental vessels and the inferior dental nerve. Its lower extremity is pierced by the mylo-hyoid nerve. The stylo-mandibular or stylo-maxillary ligament is a j^art of that process of the deep cervical fascia which dips beneath the parotid gland. It extends from the styloid process of the temporal ])oiie to the angle and posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw, separating the parotid from the submaxillary gland. Blood Supply.—From the temporal, middle meningeal, and ascending pharyngeal arteries. Nerve Supply.—From the auriculo-temporal and masseteric branches of the inferioi' maxillaiy nerve. Movements.—Rotation of the condyle around a transverse axis occurs when tbe mouth is opened or closed, and gliding forward of both the cond3'le and the interarticular cartilage when the mouth is widely opened. If the mouth is oj)encd too widely, as in a convulsive yawn, the condyle and interarticular fibro-cartilage may be completely or incompletely dislocated forward, and locked either in front of or upon the eminentia articularis. In closing the mouth the cartilage and condyle