293 THE NOSE. is attached to the superior lateral cartilage and the superior maxilla by dense fibrous tissue, in which the sesamoid cartilages are found. The margin of the alse of the nose is not formed by the inferior lateral cartilage, but by the dense fibrous tissue which forms the framework of the nose proper where the bones and cartilages are absent. The sesamoid or accessory cartilages are usually four in number in each lateral wall of the nose proper. Two of these cartilages are situated in the fibrous tissue which connects the inferior lateral cartilage with the nasal process of the superior maxilla. Just above these are the other two, which are called the accessory quadrate cartilages. Additional sesamoid cartilages may be found in the fibrous tissue which completes the framework of the nose proper, but the four previously mentioned are the only constant sesamoid cartilages. The septal cartilage is placed in the antero-inferior portion of the septum, fill- ing the angular interval between the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone and the vomer. It is quadrilateral in form. Its posterior superior border is in contact with the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, which is sometimes grooved to receive it. Its posterior inferior border joins the anterior nasal spine of the superior maxilla, and the vomer, which may be grooved for its reception. The upper portion of its anterior superior border is attached to the crest on the under surface of the junction of the nasal bones, and below the nasal bones the sides of this border are continuous with the superior lateial cartilages; it termi- nates just above the tip of the nose between the inner plates of the two inferior lateral cartilages. The anterior inferior border is short, and extends backward and downward, above the columna, to the antei'ior nasal spine, which it embraces. The cartilages and other soft tissues of the cartilaginous portion of the nose may be destroyed by lupus vulgaris, the bones not being involved. The nose may be repaired by one of the methods of plastic operation (rhinoplasty) previously mentioned. Dilating specula introduced into the anterior nares should not be inserted beyond the cartilaginous portion of the nose, on account of the pain produced by pressure upon resisting bony structures. Dissection.—Hold the anterior segment of the skull so that the light enters the nasal cavities through the anterior nares, or pass a probe or a grooved director into the nasal cavities to determine to which side the nasal septum is deflected. Then cut through the tissues of the upper lip and through the lateral cartilages, close to that side of the septum which does not bulge. With the hard palate facing upward saw through the skull, close to the flat or concave side of the septum. The superior turbinated bone on one side may be broken, in which case it may be studied on the other side after removing the septum.