DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 127 of the tumor. The gland being exposed, the superior and inferior thyroid arteries should be carefully freed, and then secured and divided between ligatui-es. In ex- posing the inferior thyroid artery preparatory to severing it, and in freeing the lower end of the lateral lobe of the gland behind, care must be exercised to avoid injuring the recurrent laryngeal nerve. After attempts to cure a unilateral goiter by the injection of tincture of iodin or by electro-puncture have failed, the inflammation consequent upon either form of treatment may result in binding the gland tightly to the carotid sheath, or perhaps to the wall of the internal jugular vein. Under these circumstances dissecting it loose, in attempted removal of the goiter, will be attended by risk of tearing the vein. Where much periglandular inflammation has occurred, the recurrent laryngeal nerve may be involved in the deposit of exudate, this condition giving rise to aphonia, which is likely to be permanent whether the goiter be removed or not. The recurrent laryngeal nerve, which has been described with the pneumo- gastric nerve, should now be observed passing upward in the groove between the trachea and esophagus and behind and internal to the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland to enter the larynx. The Subclavian Artery.—The origin, course, and relations of the sub- clavian arteries differ upon the two sides. The right subclavian is a branch of the innominate artery, and the left of the arch of the aorta. The anterior scalene muscle passes in front of the subclavian artery and divides it into three portions. The first portion is situated between its origin and the inner border of the anterior scalene muscle, the second portion behind the muscle, and the third portion between the outer border of the muscle and the lower border of the first rib. The first por- tion of the artery is the one which differs in course and relations on the two sides; it will, therefore, be described separately. The right subclavian artery is the shorter of the two. It arises as one of the two terminal divisions of the innominate artery behind the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation. The first portion of the artery lies deep in the neck, and ascends upward and outward to the inner border of the anterior scalene muscle. It is covered in front by the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma myoides muscle, the superficial laj^er of the deep fascia, the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid muscle, the anterior jugular vein, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the posterior process of the deep fascia (prever- tebral fascia) continued forward from in front of the scaleni muscles. It is crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, the pneumogastric nerve, the superior cardiac nerves and a loop of the sympathetic nerve (ansa Vieussenii), and the phrenic nerve. Below the artery are the pleura, the recurrent laryngeal nerve,