THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 485 It is continuous in front with the superior or first frontal convolution, and inter- nally with the marginal convolution. The internal, anterior, and posterior orbital gyri are located between the branches of the triradiate fissure, and are named from their relation to the branches of the fissure. They are continuous respectively with the first, second, and third frontal convolutions. Inner surface of the frontal lobe.—Upon this surface are tertiary fissures, the chief of which runs for some distance parallel with the calloso-marginal fissure, and partly divides the convolution of this surface into two portions. The marginal gyrus lies between the calloso-marginal fissure and the upper and anterior margin of the hemisphere Of the cerebrum. This convolution com- mences below the rostrum of the corpus callosum at the anterior perforated space, and extends upward and backward between the calloso-marginal fissure and the margin of the hemisphere, as far as a line which represents the continuation of the precentral fissure into the longitudinal fissure. It is continuous along the margin of the hemisphere with the superior or first frontal convolution. The Parietal Lobe is that portion of the hemisphere situated behind the fissure of Rolando, above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and in front of the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure. The portion of the lobe below the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure and beyond the termination of the hori- zontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius is continuous with the occipital lobe by means of annedant gyri. The limit of the parietal lobe behind is represented by the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure, and a line previously described, which extends from the end of that fissure to the preoccipital notch. It presents two surfaces, a lateral or convex, and an inner or mesial. Upon the lateral surface one and sometimes two chief secondary fissures are to be seen. When hui one fissure is present, it is the intra-parietal, and wdien two fissures are present, they are the intra-parietal and the post-central. The intra-parietal fissure commences above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, a short distance behind the fissure of Rolando, and runs upward, parallel to the lower portion of the latter fissure ; it then turns backward, runs nearly parallel w'ith the longitudinal fissure, and terminates in the occipital lobe, most commonly in the transverse occipital fissure. The posterior portion of the horizontal part of the intra-parietal fissure is often separated from the main fissure by a bridging convolution. The post-central fissure, when present, exists either as a continuation of the ascending limb of the intra-parietal fissure beyond the junction of the ascending with the horizontal limb, thus making the intra-parietal fissure T shaped, or it is entirely separated from the ascending limb of the intraparietal fissure. The