351 THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. muscles are insufficiently active. This condition is nacre commonly caused by defective refraction in the affected eye or unequal refraction in the two eyes. The first requisite is to correct the defect in refraction, and as a last resort the tendon or tendons of the hyperactive muscle or muscles may be divided. After division of the tendon, extreme retraction of the muscle is prevented by the anterior lamella of the orbital fascia. Dissection.—The temporo-malar nerve is the last structure to be dissected. The orbital contents must be removed completely, and the nerve will be found in a pad of fat in the retiring angle between the inferior and external orbital walls. The Temporo-malar or Orbital Nerve arises from the superior maxillary nerve in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and reaches the orbit by passing through the spheno-maxillary fissure. It then divides into two oranches—temporal and malar. The temporal branch forms a loo}) of communication with the lacrymal nerve, and then runs beneath the orbital periosteum to reach the spheno-malar foramen. Having traversed this foramen and entered the temporal fossa, it pierces the deep layer of the temporal fascia. It runs upward between the two layers of the temporal fascia for a short distance, and pierces the superficial layer of that fascia. It communicates with the temporal branch of the facial nerve, and is distributed to the skin of the anterior temporal region. The malar branch runs forward in the orbital fat, and leaves the orbit by passing through the malar foramen. It communicates with the malar branch of the facial nerve and supplies the skin of the cheek. The Lymphatics of the Orbit pass through the spheno-maxillary fissure to the internal maxillary and deep parotid lymphatic glands. THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. Dissection.—Insert slender probes into the puncta lachrymalia and lacrymal canaliculi, and open the latter as fur as the lacrymal sac. The Lacrymal Canaliculi are two narroAV canals, one in each eyelid, extend- ing from the lacrymal punctum to the lacrymal sac. For a short distance from the lacrymal punctum the course of each canaliculus is vertically away from the margin of the lid, then, turning abruptly, it forms a right angle, passes iuAvard. and pierces the inner division of the tendo oculi to reach the lacrymal sac. Before entering the lacrymal sa6 the lacrymal canaliculi of the upper and lower lids