DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 63 The superior carotid is the triangle of election for the ligation of the common carotid artery, the artery being more superficial and accessible here. Crossing the sheath of the vessels in this triangle is the middle sterno-mastoid, a small branch of the superior thyroid artery, which is severed in the ligation of the common carotid artery in this triangle. The floor of the triangle is formed by the thyro-hyoid muscle, the hyo-glossus muscle, and the middle and inferior constrictor muscles of the pharynx. The submaxillary or digastric triangle, the uppermost of the three anterior triangles, is bounded above by the lower border of the body of the lower jaw, and a line drawn from the angle of the lower jaw to the mastoid process of the temporal bone ; below, by the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscle, and the line of these muscles extended to the median line of the neck ; and, in front, by the middle line of the neck. Its roof is formed by the skin, the super- ficial fascia, the platysma myoides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia. The portion of the deep cervical 'fascia helping to form the roof of this triangle is very strong. Contents of the Submaxillary Triangle.—The stylo-maxillary ligament, a process of the deep cervical fascia which extends from the styloid pi'ocess of the temporal bone to the angle of the lower jaw and separates the submaxillary and parotid salivary glands, divides the submaxillary or digastric triangle into two portions, an anterior and a posterior. The posterior portion contains a part of the external carotid artery, embedded in the substance of the parotid gland, the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, hypo-glossal, and sympathetic nerves, the origins of the stylo-glossus and stylo- pharyngeus muscles, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The last three of these struc- tures, with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, pass into the anterior part of the triangle between the internal and external carotid arteries. In addition to the terminal portion of the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles the anterior portion contains the stylo-hyoid ligament and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which pass from the posterior portion, the submaxillary gland, the facial artery and vein, the ascending palatine, tonsillar, submaxillary, and submental branches of the facial artery, all of which arise within the triangle, the hypo-glossal nerve, the mylo- hyoid nerve, the m3'lo-hyoid artery, and lymphatic glands. A chain of lymphatic glands, ten to fifteen in number, is found below the body of the lower jaw. These glands belong to the superficial cervical lymphatics, and are known as the sub- maxillary lymphatic glands. In malignant growths of the lip, lower jaw, tongue, or oral and pharyngeal mucous membrane, this chain of glands will soon become infected and should always be removed, whether enlarged or not. In the opera- tion for the removal of a malignant groAvth involving the areas which these glands