THE NOSE. 307 branches from the anterior palatine nerve (inferior nasal nerves) run forward upon the middle and inferior turbinated bones. Blood Supply.—The blood supply of the nasal cavities is derived from the spheno-palatine, descending palatine, anterior and posterior ethmoid arteries, and the artery of the septum. The spheno-palatine artery, a branch of the internal maxillary, is the prin- cipal artery of the nasal fossa. It enters it at the spheno-palatine foramen with the naso-palatine nerve. Its internal branch, the naso-palatine, accompanies the naso- palatine nerve downward and forward upon the septum toward the anterior pala- tine foramen. Its external branches supply the outer wall of the cavity, the ethmoid cells, frontal sinus, and antrum of Highmore. The descending palatine artery is also a branch of the internal maxillary artery. It gives off a few small branches to the posterior portion of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The anterior and posterior ethmoid arteries are branches of the ophthal- mic artery. They supply the roof, upper portion of the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossa, ethmoid cells, and frontal sinuses. The artery of the septum is derived from the superior coronary branch of the facial artery. It supplies the columna and the lower portion of the septum. The veins of the nasal cavities form a })lexus under the mucous membrane. The plexus is drained by the veins which accompany the spheno-palatine artery and empty into the pterygoid plexus; those which follow the ethmoid arteries and empty into the ophthalmic vein ; some which pass through the foramina in the nasal bone and nasal process of the superior maxilla to empty into the facial vein; and others which pass through the foramen csecum to join th 3 superior longitudinal sinus and through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone to join the intra-cranial veins. The lymphatic vessels of the muco-periosteal lining and walls of the nasal fossae terminate in the post-pharyngeal lymphatic gland, the internal maxillary lymphatic glands, the parotid lymphatic glands, and the superior deep cervical lymphatic glands. Through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone these vessels communicate with the intra-cranial lymphatics and the subdural space, affording a channel through which meningitis may be produced by caries of the upper portion of the wall of the nose. Involvement of the post-pharyngeal, internal maxillary, parotid, and superior deep cervical lymphatic glands may also result from disease of the nasal fossae. In anterior rhinoscopy, or examination of the nasal fossa through the ante- rior naris, the following structures can be observed: The septum, which should occupy a vertical position, and, if it deviates toward the fossa under examination, it