82 SURGICAL ANATOMY. into the external and internal laryngeal branches. The internal branch, together with the superior laryngeal artery, enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, supplying the laryngeal mucous membrane and the arytenoid muscle, an3 communicating with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Irritation of this branch, as by a crumb of bread or a drop of water entering the larynx, causes a momentary cessation of respiration, cough, and expulsion of the intruding sub- stance. The external branch, which is smaller than the internal, descends along the side of the pharynx under the sterno-thyroid muscle; it supplies the crico- thyroid muscle and crico-thyroid membrane, the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and the thyroid gland; it also sends filaments to the pharyngeal plexus, and gives off, behind the common carotid artery, a branch to the superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic. Paralysis of the superior laryngeal nerve may be due to pressure of an aneurysm of the external or the internal carotid artery, or to enlarged lymphatic glands or tumors. The external laryngeal division may also be compressed by aneurysm of the upper part of the common carotid artery. Anesthesia of the laryngeal mucous membrane would permit foreign bodies to enter the larynx, and cause inflammation or obstruction. The vocal cords can not be stretched, owing to paralysis of the crico-thyroid muscle, and the voice is, in consequence, hoarse and of low pitch. Irritation of the superior laryngeal nerve, as by aneurysm of the internal or external carotid artery, or by an enlarged thyroid gland or lymphatic glands, causes peculiar, ringing cough, without expectoration. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerves are the motor nerves of the larynx, supplying all of the intrinsic muscles of that organ except the crico-thyroid muscles, these being supplied by the external laryngeal branches of the superior laryngeal nerves. The right recurrent laryngeal nerve is shorter than the left, arising from the pneumogastric nerve as it crosses the first portion of the right subclavian artery. It then winds behind the first portion of the right subclavian artery, ascending obliquely inward in front of the apex of the right pleural sac, and behind the root of the right common carotid artery and the terminal portion of the inferior thyroid artery to reach the groove between the trachea and esophagus. While in this groove it passes behind and internal to the right lateral lobe of the thyroid body, and leaves the groove to reach the intrinsic muscles of the larynx by passing behind the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Pressure upon this nerve may be caused by aneurysm of the first portion of the riglit subclavian artery or lowermost portion of the right common carotid artery, by enlargement of the thyroid body, cicatrices of the apex of the right pleura, as in phthisis, or by malignant disease of the esophagus.