THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 509 corresponds to the interval between the lines of the longitudinal and superior frontal fissures. The middle frontal convolution corresponds to the interval between the lines of the sui)erior and inferior frontal fissures. The inferior frontal convolution corresponds to the interval between the line of the inferior frontal fissure and the lines representing the fissure of Sylvius and the lower level of the cerebrum in front. The ascending frontal convolution corresponds to the interval between the lines of the fissure of Rolando and the precentral fissure. The Parietal Lobe lies between the line3 of the longitudinal fissure and the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and between the line of the fissure of Rolando and that of the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure. The boundary between the parietal and occipital lobe.' is indicated approximately by a line drawn from the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure to the posterior border of the base of the mastoid process. The course of the intra-parietal fissure and the position of the convolutions of the parietal lobe are represented as follows : To indicate the course of the intra-parietal fissure, draw from a point one-half of an inch, or one centimeter, external to the end of the lateral limb of the parieto- occipital fissure to a point three-fourths of an inch, or two centimeters, behind the lower end of the fissure of Rolando, a line which is convex forward; the lower third of the line should run parallel with the fissure of Rolando. The interval bounded by this line and the lines of the fissures of Rolando, the longi- tudinal fissure, and the lateral limb of tlie parieto-occipital fissure will correspond to the ascending and superior parietal convolutions. The ascending jiarietal con- volution runs parallel with the line of the fissure of Rolando, and corresponds to the space directly behind it to the extent of three-fourths of an inch, or two centi- meters, while the remaining portion of the space included in the above boundaries corresponds to the superior parietal convolution. The inferior parietal convolu- tion, including the supra-marginal and angular gyri, corresponds to the interval bounded by the line of the intra-parietal fissure, that of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and the line drawn from the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure to the posterior margin of the base of the mastoid process. The supra- marginal gyrus lies under the most prominent part of the parietal eminence. The Occipital Lobe lies behind the line drawn from the lateral limb of the parieto-occipital fissure to the posterior margin of the base of the mastoid process. The Temporal or Temporo-sphenoid Lobe lies below the line of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius and above the upper border of the zygoma, and a line representing the continuation of the latter backward to a point slightly above the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The posterior boundar}' of this lobe corresponds approximately to a line drawn from the external portion of the