SURGICAL ANATOMY. 54 and deformities of the cervical portion of the spinal column may be associated with long-standing cases of torticollis. In spasmodic wryneck the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is at fault, through the spinal accessory nerve, though some of the muscles previously mentioned, as well as the trapezius muscle, may be involved; resection of the spinal accessory and branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves has been performed in these cases. It should not be forgotten that irritation of some of the cervical nerves, as by inflamed lymph glands and caries of the cervical vertebrae, may cause a faulty position of the head which may be mistaken for torticollis due to other conditions. TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. The sterno-mastoid muscle, owing to its oblique position, divides each half of the neck into two triangles—the anterior and posterior common triangles. The Anterior Common Triangle is bounded above by the lower border of the body of the lower jaw and a line extending from the angle of the lower jaw to the mastoid process of the temporal bone ; in front, by a line extending from the symphysis of the lower jaw to the middle of the supra-sternal notch, or by the median line of the neck ; and behind, by the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle ; its apex is below—at the sternum. This triangle is subdivided into three smaller ones by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The three triangles, from above down- ward, are the submaxillary or digastric, the superior carotid, and the inferior carotid. The Posterior Common Triangle is bounded in front by the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle; behind, by the anterior border of the trapezius muscle ; and below, by the clavicle; its apex is above—at the occiput. This triangle is subdivided into two smaller triangles by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, the upper, the larger of the two, being known as the occipital, and the lower, the smaller, as the subclavian, triangle. Tlie author would here remind the reader that the boundaries of these tri- angles by muscular margins do not harmonize with the enumeration of tlieir contents, many of which are overlapped by the boundary muscles, particularl}^ the sterno-mastoid, and are, therefore, really outside the spaces to which they are thus inaccurately accredited. The most accurate dividing line between the anterior and posterior triangles would be the middle line of the sterno-mastoid muscle rather than its two borders. Dissection.—Having mapped out the triangles into which the side of the neck is divided, the dissection of the individual triangles .should next be made, commencing with the occipital, the largest. After reflecting the superficial layer