THE NOSE. 315 mucus, and formation of pus ; by diseased fangs of teeth projecting into the cavity ; by fevers, as scarlet fever; and by injury. If the orifice of the antrum is not occhided, the pus may escape into the middle meatus by overflowing, which is favored by lying upon a horizontal surface with the opposite side of the face resting upon that surface. If the orifice is closed, it will be necessary to drain the antrum by extracting a carious bicuspid or molar tooth which may cause the abscess, and forcing a trocar through the alveolus into the antrum. If the teeth are not diseased, the sinus may be opened by everting the upper lip and drilling or trephining the canine fossa just above the second bicuspid tooth, or by drilling the nasal wall of the cavity in the middle or inferior meatus of the nose. In dropsy of the antrum; or hydrops antri, a glf iry or thin serous fluid occupies the maxillary sinus. It arises from cystic degeneration of the mucous membrane. Dentigerous cysts of the antrum arise through abnormal development of a tooth, which may be caused by failure to lose one of the temporary teeth. The ethmoid sinuses or cells are situated in the lateral masses of the eth- moid bone. On each side they are divided into two sets—an anterior and a posterior. The anterior set forms a rounded eminence, the bulla ethmoidalis, situ- ated in the outer wall of the nasal fossa just above the hiatus semilunaris, into which many of the cells open. The remaining anterior ethmoid cells open directly into the middle meatus of the nose. The posterior ethmoid cells open into the superior meatus of the nose. The ethmoid cells are lined by muco- periosteum continuous with that of the nasal fossa, and may be affected by catarrhal inflammation extending from the nose, by necrosis, mucocele, or malig- nant or benign growths. The sphenoid sinuses or cells are located in the body of the sphenoid bone. They are usually two in number, being separated by a delicate septum. They are lined by muco-periosteum continuous with that of the nose and roof of the pharynx. Their orifices are situated in the posterior part of the roof of the nose, opposite the posterior extremity of the superior turbinated bone, and are said to open into the superior meatus of the nose. They may be the site of catarrh and malignant or benign growths. Dissection.—The student should now remove the mucous membrane from the septum and the outer wall of the nose, and trace the vessels and nerves pre- viously described. If the otic ganglion has not been destroyed and the part is in good condition, the ganglion may be seen by carefully removing the cai tilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube and tracing Tipward the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. The ganglion will be found on the inner side of the inferior maxillary nerve, below the foramen ovale. For description of the otic ganglion, see volume i, page 555.