THE LACRYMAL APPARATUS. 367 on the one hand, with the anterior chamber of the eye, and, on the other, with the canal of Sclilemm. The Vascular Coat, or the uveal tract, is the middle coat of the eye. It has been exposed througliout by the previous dissection. It consists of three portions : the most anterior portion is the iris, the perforated circular curtain which hangs in front of the lens ; the next portion is the ciliary body, which lies behind the iris ; and the third, posterior and largest, is the choroid. The iris, as previously stated, is the anterior portion of the middle tunic, and is a perforated circular curtain interposed between the lens and the cornea. It is attached only at its margin, where it is joined to the cornea anteriorly by means of the pectinate ligament of the iris, and.by the ciliary body posteriorly. These attachments are not vei-y strong; consequently, in injuries of the eye the iris may be torn away from the cornea and ciliary body without damage to either of tliese two structures. It is contractile and expansile, and floats in the clear aqueous humor, separating the anterior chamber of the eyeball from the posterior chamber, which communicate with each other through the central opening of the iris, called the pupil. In the fetus the pupil is closed by the pupillary membrane, which dis- appears before birth. By change in size of the pupil the iris regulates the amount of light admitted to the interior of the eye. Both contraction and dilatation of the pupil are active processes, the presence of circular and radiating muscle fibers having been demonstrated. Near the pupil the posterior surface of the iris is in contact with the lens, hence in iritis the iris may adhere to the lens, producing posterior synechia; when the iris adheres to the cornea, anterior synechia results. The iris receives much support from contact with the lens; consequently, when the lens is dislocated posteriorly or after cataract operations, the iris may be tremulous through lack of support. The Argyll Robertson pupil is one which does not respond to stimulation by light, but retains its power of accommodation for distance. It is a diagnostic sign in locomotor ataxia, and has been observed in cerebral syphilis, general paralysis of the insane, and poisoning by carbon bisulphid. The color of the iris varies in different individuals, and is largely depen- dent on the amount and position of its pigment. In blue eyes the stroma of the iris is entirely free from pigmem, the latter being confined to the posterior pigment layer, from which position it is seen through the superimposed strata of the iris. With the darker eyes the stroma cells of the iris also acquire pigment; in liglit gray eyes this is small in amount, in brown eyes greater, while in the darkest eyes the colored particles are very numerous, and sometimes appear as almost continu- ous pigmented areas; in albino eyes, on the other hand, even the retinal portion