THE MEMBRANES AND VESSELS OF THE BRAIN. 465 The Fifth Cranial, Trigeminus, or Trifacial Nerve, the largest of the cranial nerves, arises from the sides of the i:)ons by two roots—a larger, posterior or sen- sory root, and a smaller, anterior or motor root. These roots can be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle and to the gray matter in the lower part of the medulla oblongata and in the upper part of the sj)inal cord. It is the only cranial nerve which resembles a spinal nerve in arising by two roots,—a posterior, or sensory, and an anterior, or motor,—and in having a ganglion on the poste- rior root. The trifacial is a mixed nerve. It distriljutes sensory filaments to the dura mater, pia mater, orbit, eyelids, nose, gums, teeth, tonsils, palate, sphenoid cells, ethmoid cells, frontal sinus, maxillary sinus, nasal fossse, pharynx, articulation of the lower jaw, ear, parotid gland, scalp,- forehead, and face ; gustatory filaments to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue ; and motor filaments to four of the muscles of mastication—the temporal, masseter, and the external and internal pterygoids. The Sixth Cranial or Abducent Nerve arises superficially from the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata and the interval between the anterior pyramid and the olive, close to the lower margin of the pons. Its deep origin is from the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is a motor nerve, and supplies the external rectus muscle of the eyeball. The Seventh Cranial or Facial Nerve arises as two portions. The parn inter- media of Wrisberg arises deeply from the forepart of the nucleus of the ninth cranial nerve, in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Its superficial origin is at the lower border of the pons, external to the facial nerve proper and between the olivary and restiform bodies. The pars intennedia of Wrisberg is considered a portion of the glosso-pharyngeal or ninth cranial nerve, its nucleus being continuous with that of the ninth cranial nerve. Its fibers are believed to enter the chorda tympani nerve. Thus, all of the special sensory fibers to the tongue are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The facial nerve proper has its deep origin in the floor of the fourth ventricle, its fibers winding around the nucleus of the sixth cranial nerve. It arises superficially from the medulla oblongata in the groove betw^een the olivary and restiform bodies. The facial is a motor nerve, its range of distri- bution is large, and its connections with other nerves are numerous. It supplies the stapedius muscle, gives off the chorda tympani nerve, the posterior auricular nerve, the nerve to the posterior belly of the digastric, and a branch to the stylo- hyoid muscle. In addition it supplies the muscles of expression and the bucci- nator muscle. The Eighth Cranial or Auditory Nerve, situated immediately beneath or external to the facial, is really two nerves, and arises deeply from three nuclei,— Deiters', the accessory, and the chief nucleus,—which are all situated in the medulla oblongata. From these nuclei two roots arise which embrace tiie restiform 11—30