SURGICAL ANATOMY. 600 plete internal fistula ; and when it opens only externally, an incomplete external fistula. In complete fistula and incomplete internal fistul{e the tissues in the immediate neighborhood may become emphysematous through escape of gas from the rectum into the tissues. When the pus of an ischio-rectal abscess finds its way into the rectum, the opening is most frequently from one-half of an inch to one and onedialf inches, or from one to four centimeters, from the anus, as the anal fascia and levator ani muscle and their attachments are barriers which divert the pus downward to the level of the internal sphincter ani muscle. In opening an ischio-rectal abscess care is necessary to avoid wounding the rectum and the internal pudic vessels. The incision may be made from before backward in the line of the fibers of the external sphincter ani muscle, and slightly nearer to the tuber ischii than to the anus. This incision is followed by some bleeding, as the incision crosses the external hemorrhoidal vessels. The loss of blood, however, is so trifling that it is a matter of no importance. The Superficial or Anterior Intra-aponeurotic Space of the perineum is situated in the urethral triangle, between the deep layer of the superficial fascia and the superficial or anterior laj^er of the triangular ligament. It contains the bulb of the corpus spongiosum ; the bulbous portion of the urethra ; the terminal jjortion of the ducts of Cowper's glands ; the crura of the penis; the accelerator urinse, erector penis, and transverse jierineal muscles; the superficial and transverse perineal vessels ; the anterior, and sometimes the jiosterior, superficial perineal nerves ; the terminal part of the inferior jiudendal nerve ; the artery of the corpus cavernosum ; and the dorsal artery, vein, and nerve of the penis. Posteriorly, the space is divided into two lateral compartments by adherence of Colles' foscia to the median raphe of the accelerator urinaj muscle; anteriorl}', the two compart- ments are not completely separated. Extravasated urine enters the superficial intra-aponcurotic sj^ace of the perineum proper when the urethra is ruptured at the junction of its bulbous and membranous portions. Having distended this space, the urine passes in the direc- tion in which it meets the least resistance,—namely, into the scrotum,—and thence it passes over the body of the ])ubis, between the spine of the }iubis and the symphysis pubis, into the abdominal wall by way of the scroto-abdominal })assage. It is unable to gain access to the ischio-rectal fossa3 on account of the attachment of the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia to the base of the triangular ligament; neither can it find its way externally upon the inner sides of the thighs on account of the attachment of the deep la3'er of the sui)erficial fascia to the descending rami of the pubes and rami of the iscliia ; it can not enter the pelvis, as the anterior layer of the triangular ligament is stretched across the urethral triangle as a firm, resisting diaj)hragm. Having reached the abdom-