SURGICAL ANATOMY. 396 and a blurred image. The ciliary muscle comi>en.sates for the defect by contract- ing and allowing increased convexity of the lens; but the severe strain causes I^Dcal and remote disorders, and, on account of failure of the muscle to perform the work required, reading becomes difficult. The defect is corrected by converg- ing the rays with convex glasses. In myopia, or near-sightedness, the antero-posterior, or sagittal, diameter is too long, and parallel rays of light are brought to a focus in front of the retina, so that distant objects are indistinct because the image is blurred. Divergent rays or those from near olyects at a certain distance are brought to a focus upon the retina. ^Myopia occasionally results from increased refractive power of the lens; when this occurs in an old person, second sif/lif is pi-oduced and convex glasses may be discarded. As there is no mechanism in the eye which can com- pensate for the defect, and the patient can see near objects, continued eye strain may cause more serious disease of the myopic eye. The defect is corrected by concave glasses which cause the rays to diverge. Exenteration of the orbital contents is performed for malignant disease. The external canthus is split, and the orbital contents, including the periosteum, are all removed cxcei)t at the apex of the orbit. Evisceration of the eyeball is performed in staphyloma of the cornea and dis- figuring leukoma. The cornea is circumcised at the sclero-corneal margin, and all the contents of the globe and the middle and internal coats of the eyeball are care- fully removed, leaving the sclera intact. The opening is enlarged vertieallv and a glass ball is inserted into the cavity of the eye. The sclera is stitched vertically over the glass ball and the conjunctiva transversely. After tlie wound heals, an artificial shell may be inserted over the stump. Enucleation or excision of the eyeball.—The eyelids are separated with a speculum, and the ocular conjunctiva is divided close to and entii'ely around the cornea. The conjunctiva and ca})sulc of Tenon are jmshed backward over the eye. The rectus muscles are gras})ed Avith forceps at their insertions and divided back of the forceps. The globe is drawn forward and inward, and the o])tic nerve and adjoining structures are divided with scis.sors along the outer side of the eyeball. The eye is tlien drawn out of its socket, and the remaining adherent tendons and other sti'uctures are severed. The cavity is irrigated witli cold sterile water, and the stumps of the rectus nmscle are sutured together. The wound is cleansed, and a sterilized dressing applied.