♦ DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 143 intertransverse muscles. Its third or. occipital jwrtion lies in the groove on the posterior arch of the atlas, where it rests upon the suboccipital nerve, and is within the suboccipital triangle formed by the rectus capitis posticus major muscle upon the inner side, the obliquus capitis superior above and the obliquus capitis inferior muscle below ; it is covered by the complexus muscle. The relation which the fourth or intra-cranial imrtion holds wathin the cranial cavity is described under the Dissection of the Brain. The Branches of the Vertebral Artery.—These consist of two sets : those given off in the neck and those given off Avithin the cranial cavity. The branches given off in the neck are the lateral spinal and the muscular. The lateral spinal arteries pass through the intervertebral foramina, and each divides into two branches for the supply of the spinal cord, its membranes, and the bodies of the vertebrae. The muscular branches are given off immediately before the vertebral ai-tery pierces the occipito-atloid ligament; they supply the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomose with the ascending cervical, occipital, and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral vein is formed in the suboccipital triangle from a plexus of veins composed of numerous small branches from the deep muscles. It enters the fora- men in the transverse process of the atlas, and forms a plexus around the verte- bral artery. At the lower part of the neck the plexus unites to form the vertebral vein, which emerges at the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, whence it passes downward in front of the vertebral artery and behind the internal jugular vein and terminates in the innominate vein near its origin, passing in front of the first portion of the subclavian artery. Its orifice is guarded by a pair of valves. It receives as tributaries the veins from the ne\,di- boring muscles ; the dorsi spinalis veins, the veins from the spinal canal (tho meningo-rachidian veins), the deep cervical, and, at times, the first pair of inter- costal veins. In cases where the posterior condyloid foramen is present, the verte- bral vein communicates with the lateral sinus by a branch which passes through the foramen. Ligation of the vertebral artery is performed through an incision carried along the lower part of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, wdiich corresponds to the outer border of the anterior scalene muscle. The skin, super- ficial fascia, platysma myoides muscle, and the superficial layer of the deep fascia are divided, the external jugular vein being displaced outward. The sterno- mastoid muscle is drawn toward the median line, and the connective tissue divided or pushed aside with the handle of the scalpel, thus exposing the pre- vertebral fascia or posterior process of the deep cervical fascia which covers the anterior scalene muscle and the phrenic nerve. The posterior process of the deep