SURGICAL AXATOMY. 554 The posterior area contains tlie funiculus of Rolando, funiculus cuneatus, and funiculus gracilis, and in its upper portion is the restiform body. The Anterior Pyramids, or Pyramids of the Medulla Oblongata, are situ- ated between the anterior median and antero-lateral fissures. They are larger above, but are somewhat constricted and rounded where they disappear beneath the superficial transverse fibers of the pons. On separating the anterior pyramids below, bundles of fibers will be seen decussating across the anterior median fissure. This decussation is produced by the innermost fibers of the pyramids, which are derived from the lateral or crossed pj'ramidal tracts of the spinal cord, and have reached the surface of the medulla oblongata at this point by cutting through the anterior horn of the gray matter of the spinal cord, and pushing aside the anterior pyramid. The outermost fibers, which form the smaller number of fibers of the pyramid, do not decussate, and continue downward as the direct pyramidal tract of the spinal cord ; these fibers decussate in the anterior or white commissure of the spinal cord. The decussation of the pyramids of the medulla explains the fact that in disease or injury of the motor cortex of the brain the paralysis is found on the side of the body opposite to the lesion in the brain. The continuation of the anterior ground bundle of the spinal cord is not seen in the anterior area of the medulla oblongata, as the fibers of that tract are de- pressed from the surface l)y the decussating bundles of the crossed pj'ramidal tract. The Olivary Body is an oval prominence on the medtilla oblongata, situated to the outer side of the anterior pyramid. It is separated from the anterior pyramid by a narrow longitudinal groove, the hypoglossal sulcus, or antero-lateral furrow of the medulla, which is continuous with the antero-lateral fissure of the spinal cord. The olivary body is limited posteriorly by the post-olivary sulcus. Like the anterior pyramid, it is broader above than below. It is separated from the pons by a deep groove, and is al)out one-half an inch, or twelve to fifteen millimeters, in length. Emerging from the hypoglossal sulcus or antero-lateral furrow are the roots of the hypoglossal nerve. Arching below and over the olivary body, and emerging from the anterior median and antero-lateral fissures, several white bundles are seen—tlie superficial arciform fibers—which enter the restiform body of the same side. If an oblique incision be carried through the olivary body, there will be revealed in its interior a nucleus of gray matter, the corpus dentatum of the olivary body. This nucleus is arranged in the form of a hollow capsule, and presents a convoluted outline parth' incomplete at its inner si<lc. Through this open part of the capsule passes a bundle of white fibers, the peduncle of the olivary body. The Lateral Tract of the Medulla Oblongata is appareiltly the upward exten- sion of the lateral column of the spinal cord, l)ut it does not contain the crossed