338 SURGICAL ANATOMY. these veins nor their tributaries have valves. Their anastomosis is fairly free, the communications being with veins corresponding to the arteries with which the branches of the 02)hthalmic artery anastomose. * The common ophthalmic vein, formed by the union of the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins, is short and thick. It passes between the heads of the external rectus muscle, through the sphenoid fissure, and enters the cavernous sinus. The superior ophthalmic vein is considerably larger than the inferior oph- thalmic vein. It commences at the inner portion of the upper eyelid by a free anastomosis with the frontal, supra-orbital, and angular veins, and, following a straighter course than the ophthalmic artery, crosses over the optic nerve to reach the inner end of the sphenoid fissure, where it joins the inferior ophthalmic vein to form the common ophthalmic vein. The inferior ophthalmic vein is formed by the union of the inferior muscular and posterior ciliar}' veins in the lower external portion of the orbit. It lies below the plane of the optic nerve, and communicates with the pterygoid plexus of veins by a twig which passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure. It then runs backward to the rear of the orbit, and joins the superior ophthalmic vein, as previously described. The inferior ophthalmic vein, as well as the superior, empties at times directly into the cavernous sinus. Pldehitis of the ophthalmic veins may extend to the cavernous sinus and cause fatal thrombosis. Pulsation of the ophthalmic vein and of the orbit may be produced by an arterio-venous aneurysm between the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus. Pulsation of the orbit may also be caused by traumatic aneurysm of one of the arteries of the orl)it, or })ulsation transmitted to the terminal 2)ortion of the ophthalmic vein from an ancur3'sm of the internal carotid artery. The Lenticular, Ophthalmic, or Ciliary Ganglion is a small, reddish body, slightly larger than the head of an ordinary pin. It is of quadrilateral outline, and both its surfaces are slightly convex. It lies about one-fourth of an inch in front of the sphenoid fi.ssure, and between the optic nerve on the inner side and the external rectus muscle on the outer side. It is usually situated at the outer side of the ophthalmic artery, to which it is, at times, closely adherent. Like all the si)oradic ganglia connected with the fifth nerve, it has afferent and efferent filaments. The afferent filaments are three in number, and are termed its roots; the efferent filaments are the branches of distribution. The roots are motor, sensory, and sympathetic. The motor, or short root, is derived from that branch of the oeulo-motor nerve which runs to the inferior oblique mu.scle. It enters the ])osteri()r inferior angle of the ganglion. The