614 SURGIQAL ANATOMY. inch, or two and one-half centimeters, in lengtli—pierces the superficial layer of the triangular ligament, runs forward in the hulb along the floor of the bulbous urethra, and obliquely enters the bulbous urethra at its floor. In some bodies these glands are so small as to escapfe detection ; they appear to decrease in size as age advances. Their secretion is accessory to the seminal fluid. The artery of the bulb (bulbo-cavernosus) is a vessel of considerable size. It arises from the internal pudic artery just after it has pierced the deep layer of the triangular ligament, and passes inward and forward through the substance of the compressor urethrae muscle one centimeter anterior to a line drawn from the tuberosity of the ischium to the perineal center. It pierces the anterior layer of the triangular ligament to enter the posterior part of the bulb. Thence it continues forward in the corpus spongiosum and the compressor urethraj muscle, and supplies the bulbous and other portions of the corpus spongiosum with blood. It furnishes small branches to C'owper's glands. In the operation of lateral lithotomy it is specially desirable to avoid wounding this vessel, as the resulting hemorrhage is sometimes controlled with difficulty. The membranous portion of the urethra is included between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and is situated about an inch, or two and one-half centi- meters, below the pubic arch, from which it is separated by the dorsal vein of the penis and the subpubic ligament. It extends from the apex of the prostate gland behind to the Inill) of the penis in front. With the exception of the external urinary meatus, it is the narrowest and least dilatable part of the entire urethra, and is without exception the most unfiivorable location for stricture. It measures three-fourths of an inch, or less than two centimeters, along its upper surface and about one-half of an inch, or one and one-fourth centimeters, along its lower surface, its length inferiorly being considerabl}' reduced by the projection back- ward of the ])ulb of the corpus spongiosum. It is separated from the rectum by the compressor urethrse muscle, Cowper's glands, the deep layer of the triangular ligament, and the levator ani muscle. The internal pudic artery, the smaller of the two terminal divisions of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery, leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles and above the sciatic artery. It crosses the external surface of the spine of the ischium under cover of the gluteus maximus muscle, and reenters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, where it crosses the obturator internus muscle. In this latter situation it is accompanied by two vense comites, the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis, which are included with the internal pudic artery in the canal of Alcock, which is a tul)ular sheath formed by the obturator fascia. It runs forward in this canal, lying about an inch and a half, or four centimeters,