THE EXTERNAL GENITALS OF THE MALE. 643 junction of the latter with the perineum ; the dartos of the penis and scrotum will then be exposed. The dartos is the superficial fascia of the scrotum and penis. It contains no fat, and is a reddish-looking, thin, fascial layer, containing yellow elastic tissue and bundles of unstriped muscle fibers. Its superficial portion is elastic areolar tissue, and its deep portion is more membranous in character. It is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen and perineum. In the scrotum the muscle fibers generally run at right angles to the scrotal wrinkles which they cause. The dartos sends a median partition into the scrotum between the two testicles, which forms an incomplete scrotal septum. The External Spermatic Fascia is the fascia immediately beneath the dartos. It is the continuation of the intereolumnar fascia of the external abdominal ring, carried downward over the testicle and spermatic cord in the descent of the tes- ticle. The Middle Spermatic or Cremasteric Fascia contains longitudinal bundles of striated muscle fibers derived from the lower margin of Ihe internal oblicjue dur- ing the descent of the testicle from the abdomen. It contracts, elevating the tes- ticle, during ^ active contraction of the abdominal muscles. Its contraction is also induced by gentle friction or stroking in the neighborhood of the groin and upper inner side of the thigh, producing the cremasteric reflex, which is of value in diagnosis of certain diseases of the nervous system. The Internal Spermatic or Infundibuliform Fascia is the innermost fascial tunic of the spermatic cord and testicle, and is a process of the transversalis fascia of the abdominal wall, which was carried into the scrotum in the descent of the processus vaginalis and testicle. The Tunica Vaginalis is the serous sac in relation with the testicle, and is the unobliterated portion of the processus vaginalis of the peritoneum which descended into the scrotum just in advance of the testicle. The Scrotal Fasciae may be greatly distended by serous effusions in dropsical conditions due to disease of the heart, kidney, or liver, or other circulatory obstruc- tion, sometimes causing such tumefaction of the scrotum as to hide the penis. The scrotum may be distended by urine extravasated into the superficial perineal inter- space. The scrotum is also capable of enormous distention by inguinal hernia, the gut passing downward along the spermatic cord and into the scrotum, which may become as large as an average-sized human head. In such cases the glans may be the only portion of the penis which is visible, and even that may be concealed in a depression from which urine escapes. Blood Supply.—The superficial and deep external pudic and the superficial