THE PHARYNX. 245 ternal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, which is the guide in dividing the aponeuroses of the tensor palati and levator palati muscles. Dissection.—Make the tissues tense by means of hooks, and reflect the mucous membrane from both surfaces of the soft palate and from the pillars of the fauces. Remove the mucous membrane and pharyngeal aponeurosis from the upper portion of the side of the pharynx, in order to fully expose the levatores and tensores palati muscles, which have been seen during the dissection of the sujoerior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. The Levator Palati Muscle arises from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in front of the carotid canal and from the under and inner surfaces of the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. It passes internal to the upper margin of the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, to reach the inner surface of that muscle, and is inserted into the palatine aponeu- rosis and into its fellow of tlie opposite side, in front of the azygos uvulae muscle. Action.—It elevates the soft palate and brings it into contact with the posterior wall of the pharj'nx, so as to separate the naso-pharynx from the oro-pharynx and prevent regurgitation of food from the oro-iDharynx into the naso- pharynx and nasal cavities. The Tensor Palati Muscle arises from the scaphoid fossa, which is situated behind the base of the internal pterygoid plate, from tlie spine of the sj^henoid bone, and the outer side of the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. It is a flat muscle, which lies on the outer surface of the internal pterygoid plate and terminates in a tendon which winds around the hamular process of that plate. The tendon forms almost a right angle with the muscle, and is inserted into the palatine aponeurosis, with which it is continuous, and into the transverse ridge on the under surface of the horizontal plate of the jialate bone. A bursa facilitates the movement of the tendon over the hamular jjrocess. Action.—It renders the soft palate tense and opens the Eustachian tube dur- ing deglutition. The Palato-pharyngeus Muscle is situated in the posterior pillar of the fauces. It arises from the soft palate by two slips, which are separated by the levator palati and azygos uvulte muscles and are continuous with the correspond- ing slips of the opposite muscle, and also has an origin from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube (salpingo-pharyngeus). It passes to the side of the pharynx and joins the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, to be inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage below the base of the superior cornu, and by an expansion into the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Action.—It elevates the pharynx and larynx and approximates the posterior pillars of the fauces.