SURGICA L ANA TOMV. 122 middle, and reflect them upward and downward. This exposes, from above down- ward, the thyro-hyoid membrane, pierced upon each side by the internal branch M the superior laryngeal nerve and the superior laryngeal artery ; the thyroid cartilage ; the crico-thyroid membrane, upon which are the crico-thyroid arteries ; the cricoid cartilage, partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscles ; the first, and at times the second, ring of the trachea ; the thyroid gland, its middle portion, or isthmus connecting the two lateral lobes ; the trachea, covered by a plexus of veins formed by the anastomoses of the inferior thyroid veins ; the middle thyroid artery, when present, and the pretracheal fascia. The Thyroid Gland or Body, a ductless and very vascular structure, is situated on the front and sides of the upper part of the trachea, and the sides of the lower part of the larynx. It consists of two lateral lobes and a middle lobe, or isthmus, and weighs from one to two ounces. Each lateral lobe is about two inches in length, one and one-fourth inches in breadth, and three-fourths of an inch in thickness. Each lateral lobe is pyriform or cone-shaped, the apex directed upward ; it extends from the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea to the middle of the side of the thyroid cartilage. It is convex anteriorly, and is situated between the trachea and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered anteriorly by the sterno-hyoid, the sterno-thyroid, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. Its deep sur- faces is concave, and in contact with the trachea, larynx, pharynx, esophagus, infe- rior thyroid artery, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. From its upper part, and most connnonly from the left lobe, a conic piece, called the pyramid, at times ascends toward the hyoid bone, to which it is attached by a fibrous band in front of the thyro-hyoid membrane ; this part is at times attached to the hyoid bone by a slip of nniscle, the levator glandalx thijroidcie of Soemmering. The middle lobe, or isthmus, is about one-half of an inch in depth, and rests u})on the second and third rings of the trachea. The isthmus varies much in its dimensions, and is sometimes absent. There is a space between the upper border of the middle lobe, or isthmus, and the cricoid cartilage, where the trachea is not covered by the gland ; this portion of the trachea is opened in the high operation of tracheotomy. To perform this operation when the space is covered by the middle lobe, it is nec- essary either to displace the lobe downward or pass two ligatures around it and divide it between them. In some instances, however, the width of the middle lobe, or isthmus, is so great tliat it covers the trachea almost to the sternum. The low operation of tracheotomy is performed below the isthmus of the gland. That this operation is the more difficult of the two will be seen at a glance in the dissected neck ; this is due to the increasing depth of the trachea as it approaches the ster- num, and the presence of the thyroid plexus of veins in front of this part of the trachea. An abnormally high position of the large vessels at the root of the neck