THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 431 of nerves, and joins the otic ganglion, which is associated with the inferior maxillary nerve. The inferior dental nerve, which supplies the lower teeth, is a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. THE INTERNAL EAR. The Internal Ear or Labyrinth.—The most important portion of the organ of hearing consists of a series of complex cavities—the bony labyrinth, Avithin which is the membranous labyrinth. The Bony Labyrinth is made up of three intercommunicating cavities,—the vestibule, the cochlea, and the semicircular canals,— -which are lined by a delicate periosteum. The membranous labyrinth is a cast of the bony labyrinth, but is considerably smaller than the latter; between the two there is a space lined with endothelium and containing a fluid called the perilymph. The parts of the membranous labyrinth are the utricle, the saccule, the membranous semicircular canals, and the duct or canal of the cochlea, all of which are lined with epithelium and contain the endolymph. The vestibule, situated between the cochlea and semicircular canals, is an ovoid bony cavity, the antero-posterior diameter of which is about five millimeters, or one-fifth of an inch. On the outer or lateral wall is the oval windoiv in com- munication with the tympanum ; as previously stated, this is closed in the natural state by the base of the stapes and the periosteal lining of the vestibule. At the anterior portion of the inner or median w^all is a found depression, the fovea hemispherica, the bottom of which is pierced by numerous small openings for the transmission of the vestibular branch of the auditory nerve. Posterior to the fovea hemispherica is a vertical crest, the crista vestibuli. In the posterior portion of the inner wall is the small opening of the aqneductus vestibuli, a canal which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and lodges the ductus endolymphaticus and a minute vein. At the lower and anterior portion of .the vestibule is the comparatively large opening leading to the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. In the posterior portion of the vestibule are the five round openings of the semicircular canals. On the roof of the vestibule is an oval fossa, the fovea hemielliptica. The semicircular canals, three bony tubes about one-twentieth of an inch, or one and one-fourth millimeters, in diameter, are situated behind the vestibule. The superior semicircular canal lies nearly in the sagittal plane of the body, the posterior, in the coronal plane, and the external, in a transverse plane ; conse- quently they occupy positions about at right angles to one another. Each forms