Livingstones' leclical Haiidtiooks. SYMINGTON'S TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY of the CHILD, £2, 2,0 M'LACHLAN'S APPLIED ANATOMY: Sur;^ical, Medical, and Operative, 3/t/£rf;7/o/?,-J vdls., .... 18/0 MILNE'S MIDWIFERY, i'/Jf/£r//7/o/), 12/6 HUGHES' NERVES OF THE HUMAN BODY, . .7/6 Do. MANUAL OF SURGICAL ANATOMY, {in prepnralion) GREVILLE'S CHEMISTRY, with Tables, fr/;7/o/;, . 6/0 HUSBAND'S lAubrey) FORENSIC MEDICINE and PUBLIC HEALTH, 5^/; ff//7/o/), . 10/6 Do. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE,'///;£f//7/o/;, . 7/6 Do. SANITARY LAW., 3,6. Do. POCKET PRESCRIBER, . : . . 1/0 Do. EXAMINATION OF THE URINE, . 1/0 GROOM'S MINOR GYNECOLOGY, 2«f/£(//7/o/), . . .6/0 CRAIG'S MATERIA MEDICA, 5//; £f//7/o/7, ..... 6/0 Do. POSOLOGICAL TABLES, New Eclilion, . . 1/0 WHITAKER'S THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD, with Plates, 4;6 Do. PATHOLOGY—Vol. I.-GENERAL, 4/6. Do. Do. Vol. II.—SPECIAL, (//)/)re/0,7/v7/.'n/;) WEST'S VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY, . ... 1,6 HUGHES' MOTOR NERVES, 1/0 TURNER'S DENTAL EDUCATION, 1,0 ANATOMY-Part 1.—UPPER EXTREMITY, Cnlecliism Series. 1,0 Do. Part 2.—LOWER EXTREMITY, Do. 1/0 PUBLIC HEALTH-Part l.-WATER, Do. I/O Do. Part 2. -AIR AND VENTILATION, Do. 1/0 MATERIA MEDICA CARDS-Organic, Cnlocliism Scries, net, 2 6 PATHOLOGY CARDS General and Special (Two Sets), or in Note Book form, Caiecliisiii Series, Per set, net, 2/6 JOHNSTONE'S BOTANY NOTES, Two Parts,'///) Eclilion. each 2,0 Do. ZOOLOGY NOTES Part l.-lnvertebrata, 2/0 Do. Do. Part. 2.— Do. 2 0 Do. Do. Part 3.-Vertebrata, . 2 0 EDINBURGH MEDICAL SCHOOL CALENDAR, by post, . 1/9 V lui iijiplir<(/(Oil 4h 22101465008APPLIED ANATOMY.SURGICAL, MEDICAL, AND OPERATIVE. BY JOHN M'LACHLAN, M.D, B.Sc, M.R.C.S. .MASTER IN' SU11i;K1;V, I'M VICltMl TV OK I'.Dl NlilTiif; n ; r.irKVTIAriC 111-' IIIK SOI ■ IKIV (IK Al'OTllK.CAIilKS, l.ONlinX, V.Tf. ILLUSTRATED WITH 238 ENGRAVINGS. VOL. ir. E DIN B U lUJ 11 : E. & S. LTVINCiSTONE, 15 TEVIOT I'LACE LONDON: I'.AILI.I KHK, TINDAM;, COX; SI.MF'KIX, MAIiSllAI.I,. CO.; IIAMII/roN. ADAMS, X- CO. 18891 ^1 I'RINTKI) BV E. & S. LIVINGSTONE 4 MKLBOIIRNE I'LAt'K KDINBUKOH. I.ONIION: SIMI'KIN, MAliSHAI.I,, AND CO. ; lIA.MII,TON, AIJAM.S, ANtlCO. ; BA 1 Ll.l KKK, TIN'1 lA 1,1.. A.NIJ (OX. GLASoow: simk; stknhouse. ulbmn: kannin andco.; oii.i. and son. manl'hk.stkr: j. k. cornish. .WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll \welMOmec Call No m. 04 ■PREFATORY NOTE TO VOL. II. thanks are clue to Dr Macewen, of Glasgow, who very kindly supplied me with the Woodcuts illustrating his operation for the radical cure of Hernia. The operation in question is given in his own words, in order that there might be no mistake. .1. .M'J.. ./;//// issn.CONTENTS OF VOL. II. ♦ • IIAn-F.R p^CE PliKV.MK ...... V T>isr OK Kn(;i;,\viNc.s. . . . . i.\ Head iiiMl X.vk ..... 1 -X.X.X. Wounds (if tliu .S(j;il[i .... 62 .X.X.XI. 'I'lic Ui>iifr E.vtreiiiity .... 13(5 X.X.XII. 'rii(3 IvowiT Kxtit'iiiit}' .... 158 .X.X.XIII. Tilt' Lmvpr Kxtrciiiity (continued) . . . 174 A'XXIV. The Chest . . . ... .198 XXXY. The Spine ...... 230 XXXVI. The Abdomen ..... 261 XXXVII. The Abdomen ('(•((/(^/((//(v/j .... 29.5 X.X.XVIII. Tlic Abdomen f'c'/(/7//////Y/; . , , . 32I XXXIX. TIk; Abdomen f'o'/'///("'v/; .... 309 ' XI,. The \\ AuUu'U {anil ill ucd) .... 3S0 XI.I. The, IVlvis . . . . . . 40.-) XI.II. 'Yhf Vf\\\s (r,,i,iliiiir,lJ .... )29 XI,III. '\'hc Vf\\-\!< (fniiliiniril) .... I.'i0 .XI.IV. \.'v\\h (oinliimcil 1 .... 4rf) XLV. flyniccologicnl 0|ieiiition.s .... .0O6 .XI,\ I. Origin and Insertion of ]\Iuse]e.s . . , 523 XLV It. TiMiiLs used ill Hye Surgery .... 540 XLVIII. Addenda ...... 548 Imjk.x ...... 5(i3LIST OF ENGRAVINGS. 1 120. .MuUll.'Line of the Keck .... 5 121. Knife for Excision of Tonsil ..... 36 122. Venesection from External .Jngular .... 42 123. Lines of the BraucIiLal Clefts . . . .44 124. Development of Month . . . . . . 43 125. Tlie Bones of a Typical Palate .... 48 126. Completely Cleft Palate ..... 49 127. Opemtion tor Hare Lip—First l-'orni (First Statje) . . ;,2 128. Do. Do. (Seuoml Stage) . . 52 129. Operation for Hare Lip—Second Form (First Stiige) . 52 130. Do. Do. (Second Stage) . 52 131. Operation for Hare Lip—Third Forni (First Stage) . . 52 Do. Do. (Second Stage) . 52 133. Do. Do. (Tiiird Stage) . . 52 134. Operation for lliire Li|)— iourtli Form (Fii'st Stage) . 52 135. Do. ])o. (Sei'ond Stage) . 52 136. Operation for Hare Lip—Fifth Method ... 54 137. Duncan's Method—Lip in Section . . . . 54 138. Duncan's Metliod—Stitching .... 54 139. Duncan's Operation—Finished . . • . .54 140. To pa.ss the Sutures in Cleft Palate .... 56 141. TheSealp 04 142. Ciicle of Willis ...... (i!) 143. Cerebral Emboli ...... 70 144. 'I'he Internal Capsule ..... 71 145. Fissure of lloliindo and Motor Areas .... 78 146. l)r Ileid's Method ...... 79X List of Engravings. PAGE 147. Lobes of the Brain 81 lis. Hey's Saw ....... 86 149. Pott's Puffy Tumour (after Spence) .... 88 150. Koclier's Excision of tlie Tongue " . , . .104 151. Regions of tlie Nose . . . , , . jqQ 152. The Facial Nerve . . . . ' . , 12O 153. Fascia about Axilla ...... 141 154. Veins at the Bend of the Elbow—Plight Side . . 144 155. Venesection . . . . . . .145 156. Section of the Wrist ...... 151 157. Palmar Cutaneous Nerves ..... 156 158. Dorsal Cutaneous Nerves ..... 156 159. Structures between Poupart's Ligament and the Bone . 158 160. Hip Joint Disease—Position of Knee . . .166 161. Hip Joint Disease—Lumbar Curve .... 166 162. Section of Thigh (from Cunnin(!HAm) . . . 172 I6.3. Genu Valgum Triangle—Right Side .... ISI 164. Macewen's Osteotome. . . . . .182 165. A Chisel ....... 182 166. Left Ankle, from Above ..... 191 167. Section of Leg (from Cunningham) .... 192 168. Plantar Cutaneous Nerves ..... 193 169. Dorsal Cutaneous Nerves ..... 193 170. Relation of the Heart and Great Vessels to Chest Wall . 199 171. Cause of Bruit de Diable ..... 205 172. Section of Cord ...... 234 173. Conduction of Motor and Sensory Impulses . . . 237 174. Reflexes of Cord (after Bramwell) . . . .238 175. Anterior Abdominal Wall ..... 262 176. Anterior Abdominal Wall ..... 264 177. Sheath of Rectus (from Cunningham's "Abdomen") . 265 178. Abdominal Walls (from Cunningham's "Abdomen") . 295 179. Posterior Abdominal Wall, from Behind . . .299 180. Colon and Peritoneum—Empty. .... 303 181. Colon and Peritoneum—Distended .... 303 182. Lerabert's Suture—Sui'face "\'iow . . . .310List of Engravings. xi till. PAGE 183. Leiubeit's Suture—Side View .... 310 ISi. Leiabert's Suture Tigliteiied . . . .310 185. Stab through Base of Luug ..... 312 186. Space concerned hi Inguiual Heruia, from tlie Inside . 341 187. Normal Condition of the Processus Vaginalis in tlie Adult 344 188. Spence's Hernia Director ..... 349 189. Hernia Knife . . . . . . .349 190. Macewen's Needles ...... 364 191. Site of Incision ...... 365 192. Separating the Peritoneum ..... 366 193. Treatment of Sac . . . . . . 367 194. Thread introduced to pull up Sac .... 368 195. Sac in New Position ...... 369 196. Conjoint Tendon . . . . . . 370 197. Loop in Conjoint Tendon ..... 371 198. External Pillar ...... 372 199. Thread ready for Tying ..... 373 200. Congenital Inguinal Hernia ..... 375 201. Condition of the Processus Vaginalis in Congenital Hernia . 376 202. Condition of the Processus Vaginalis predisposing to tlie Infantile and Encysted Forms of Hernia . . . 377 203. Infantile Hernia ...... 377 204. Encysted Hernia ...... 378 20.0. Condition of the Proce.ssus Vaginalis in Funicular Hernia . 378 206. Formation of the Femoral Sheath . . . .381 207. Course and Coverings of I'^enioral Hernia (after Hkatit) . 383 208. An Ordinary Fatty Tumour ..... 383 209. "Fatty Hernia" ...... 385 210. Femoral Epiplocele ...... 385 211. Vessels near Crural Ring—Normal .... 386 212. Aberrant Obturator—Non-dangerous Variety . . 387 213. Aberrant Obturator—Dangerous Variety . . . 388 214. Ischio-Rcctal Fossa ...... 395 215. Professor Chienc's Staff ..... 407 216. Lithotomy Tube ...... 407 217. The Prostate in Litlioloniy ..... 419xii List of Engravings. ■•''O- PAOK 218. A False Passage ...... 432 219. Syme's Staff 439 220. The Prostate ....... 444 221. Section of Testicle . . . . .450 222. Tapping Vaginal Hydrocele ..... 4.55 223. Encysted Hydrocele of Cord ..... 458 224. Base of Bladder showing the Trigone ... 466 225. Spence's Operation (after Si'ENCE) .... 467 226. Whitehead's Operation—First Stage . . . ■. 481 227. Whitehead's Operation—Second Stage . . . 481 228. ( Jeneral Striictnre of Abdomen .... 487 229. Section of Penis ...... 494 230. Phimosis . . . . . . .496 231. Paraphimosis ........ 498 232. Amputation of Penis—First Stage .... 499 233. Amputation of Penis—Second Stage .... 499 234. Psoas Abscess ...... 502 235. Hare's Angle ....... 551 236. Articulation of Carpal Bones .... 556 237. Operation for Salivary Fistula .... 558 2.38. Artificial Anus . . . . . .559APPLIED ANATOMY: SURGICAL, MEDICAL, AND OPEMTIYE. (CHAPTER XXIX. HEAD AND NECK. RELATIONS OF THE TRACHEA. The tracliea extends from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage (or opjDosite the sixth cervical vertebra) to the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra — disc between the fourth and fifth (Quain)—• where it divides into the. two bronclii. The point of bifurcation corresponds, in front, to the jimction between the manubrium and gladiolus of the sternum ; at this point also it is crossed by the arch of the aorta. It is usually said to extend from the fifth cervical to the third dorsal vertebra; but in the above numbers I have followed the teaching of the Edinburgh School. Its position varies with the position of the head—fiexed or extended; when the head {lasses from the ordinary position to one of extension, nearly an incli moi'e of the trachea is drawn up into the neck above the sternum. The larynx and upper part of the; trachea ai'c also raised iluring deglutition, and during inspiration its length in the neck is diminished, because the upper margin of tlie thorax is raised. These changes of position are rciadily admitted because of the fibro-elastic membrane, which forms tlie basework of the trachea, ami in which the cartilaginous rings are embedded. The move- mcnts taking place during deglutition are useful in sharply diagnosing all tumours connected with the trachea—e.fj., goitre ;Applied Anatomy: 2 the i^atient is directed to swallow, when, if the tumour is con- nected with the trachea, it will rise with it during that act. In the Neck the trachea occupies the middle line, lying in front of the oesophagus and vertebral column. In front of it we find the skin, superficial fascia, communicating branches between the two anterior jugular veins, deep cervical fascia, and then the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, isthmus of the thyroid body, the inferior thyroid veins, and the thyroidea ima artery, if it exists. The anterior jugidar veins lie a little to one side of the middle line, and above the deep fascia. At the sides we find the common carotid arteries, the lateral lobes of the thyroid body, inferior tliyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. At the root of the neck, in the episternal notch, the innominate artery and the left carotid cross it obliquely to gain its right and left side, respectively. In the Thorax.—In front, the upper part of the sternum, and the origin of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, left innominate vem, transverse part of the arch of the aorta with its branches, and tlic deep cardiac plexus. Behind is the oesophagus; on the right side the ■pleura and right vagus; and on the left side the pleura, left vagus, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and left common carotid artery. Tlie length of the trachea is about four and a half inches, and its diameter about three-quarters of an inch. The right bronchus is shorter, wider, and more horizontal in its course; the left is longer, narrower, and more oblique in direction. It is usually said that foreign bodies, for these reasons, are more apt to pass into the left bronchus; but the larger size of the opening of the right bronchus, and the fact that therefore the septum is to the left of the middle line, would seem to indicate that foreign bodies would more readily find their way into the right bronchus. Further, it has been shown by Aeby, that the right bronchus proper is not more horizontal than the left, but, if anything, rather more oblique; the undivided part, however, of the bronchus is shorter, because it soon gives off a branch to the upper lobe of the right lung {epiarterlal hronrlms). According to tliis view, tlie upper lobe of the loft lung is the homologue of the middle lobe of the right lung.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 3 TRACHEOTOMY. By this is meant tlie making of an opening in some part of the trachea. Laryngotomy—when the opening is made in the crico- thyroid membrane—usually by a single thrust; Tracheotomy— when the opening is made through some part of the trachea itself, either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body; and hence Avc have the hUjli and the low operations. LaryngO-tracheotomy. —In this operation the opening is made through the crico-thyroid membrane, the cricoid cartilage, and the upper rings of the trachea. Ill Thyrotomy, the thyroid cartilage is split hi the middle line, in whole or in part, by a vertical incision, and the interior of the larynx exposed; the two halves arc then held aside, while foreign bodies or morbid growtlis are removed from the cords or ventricles. In cases where the lower j^art only of the thyroid cartilage is split, it will be necessary to divide the upper two or three rings of the trachea, to give more room for manipulation ; Avith partial division thus, the power of speech is less likely to be so seriously affected afterwards, as the vocal cords are less disturbed. The opening in the wind-passage may be temporary or permanent. A temporary opening may be required for—(1) Obstructive (Edema glottidis; (2) acute laryngitis; (3) spasins from pressure on, or irritation of, the recurrent laryngeal nerve ; (4) emphysema of the loose connective tissue of tlie neck, as from a penknife wound ; (5) scalds of rima, by boiling water or caustic fluids; (G) foreign bodies in the air passages; (7) masses of food in the gullet; (8) crouji; (9) diphtheria; and (10) many operations about the jaws, tongue, and palate. In diphtheria the obstruction is always at the chink of the glottis, but in croup it is in the trachea and bronchi as well. A permanent opening may be required for—(1) Chronic diseases of the larynx, resulting in thickening of the mucous membrane, abscesses, necrosis of cartilages — as from syphilis, tubercular disease, fevers, and cancer; (2) polypi of the larynx; (3) laryngeal plithi.sis. Some .Surgeons doubt wiietlier it sliould be opened in croup and diphtheria. In croup, the dangers are—(a) Obstruction to the larynx; and (If) extension of the disease down to the lungs, So also in diplithcria we have similar dangers—{a) (ObstructionApplied Anatomy: 4 to larynx and pharynx; and (h) pulmonary inflammation, blood poisoning, and exhaustion. If the disease spreads downwards, opening the trachea may not save the patient's life; but it at least saves him from a very distressing kind of death, and it may possibly save his life. Hence, even in cro\ip and diphtheria, opening the windpipe is a perfectly justifiable operation, so long as it gives temj^orary relief or affords the lead chance of saving the patient's life. Besides, the operation of opening the windpipe is not meant to care the cUi<ease, bnt only to get rid of the danger of immediate death from asphyxia, and to red the larynx. In many cases of diphtheria, however, death is not due to asphyxia, but to asthenia, caused by the absorption of the poison into the circulation-—if, indeed, it be not in the blood from the A'ery fii'st— and in this class of cases it would be worse than useless to perform the operation. It is also useless to open it in cases where the obstruction is low down in the trachea; to distinguish this from laryngeal obstruction, the laryngoscope must be employed, and much assistance will be gained by remembering that in laryngeal obstruction the larynx itself moA^es eiiergetically with respiration, ■whereas in tracheal dj^spno^a it is stationary. In the middle line of the Neck we find the following structures (Fig. 120) :—(1) Symphysis of the lower jaw; (2) central tendon of the mylo-hyoid muscles; (3) body of the hyoid bone; (4) thyro- hyoid membrane; (5) thyroid cartilage; (G) crico-thyroid membrane and arteries; (7) cricoid cartilage, which can be distinguished from the rings of the trachea by its more resistant feel; o]iposite this cartilage, as already pointed out, is the " carotid tubercle " of tlic sixth cervical verteljra, and opposite this point also is the usual situation for applying a ligature to tlie common carotid, above the omo-hyoid; (8) two or three rings of the trachea; (9) isthmus of tlie thyroid body (usually crossing about the third or fourtli rings); and (10) the trachea again. The level of the vocal cords corresponds to the middle of tlie anterior margin of the thyroid cartilage (Qualn) ; Gray, however, places the cords on a loM-er level—one quarter of an inch above the lower edge of the cai'tilage. The Position of the Patient.—He is to be placed on a table, facing a good light, and his shoulders are Avell raised liy pillows; llie licixl is tlirown as far bnch as pructicablo, and kept perfectlySiii'gicdi, Medical, and Operative. 5 straight and steady l)y tlie wrists of an assistant, standing at the patient's head. A small firm pad should bo placed under the neck, so as to throw the windpipe forwards. The assistant is also to be provided with a blunt hook in each hand, by which he retracts the soft parts as they are divided—taking care not to Fig. 120. Middle Line of the Neck. I.ovel of Vocal (Jol-fls Cik-oifi (-'artibi«o Lower .Iiiw. .Mylo-hyoid AI \i.scles. Hyoid Bone. 'J'liyr( i-hj'oid .Meuibraiio. Tliy r( lid Cartilage. Crico-thjn'oid Meinhr.ai)e. Tjateral Iiol)es and Istlmnis ol' tlic Thyroid Body. displace tliem at all to one side of the middle line, which is more apt to happen when the hooks are confided to the care of imi assistants. Another assistant is to stand opi)osite the .Surgeon, to sponge the wound and secure bleeding vessels with catch forceps (Wrlm's). a third may adiiiiiiister chloroform. V>y throwing the head well backwards the trachea is drawn u|i iutd the neck.Applied Anatomy: 6 and so gives the Surgeon more room; further, it helps to steady it—the mohiUty of tlie trachea being one of the difficulties of the operation—and also brings it nearer the surface, as well as ensuring, as far as possible, a clear air-way to the lungs. The first assistant must be specially cautioned to keep the head exactly straight and in the middle line, and at the same time to avoid squeezing in the mouth or nostrils. Instruments required. — Scalpel, Spence's hernia director, a good supply of Wells's forceps, dissecting forceps, blunt hooks, a sharp hook to fix and draw forward the trachea, trachea tubes and tiipes, trachea dilator, sponges, ligatures, scissors, etc. The Surgeon stands on the right side. Incision.—In the high operation, begin the incision over the middle of the thyroid cartilage; in the low, begin over the cricoid cartilage, and carry it downwards, exactly in the middle line, for about two or three inches. By this incision (1) the skin, (2) fascia, and (3) fatty tissue are divided. On each side of the median line we find an anterior jugular vein, which are very often connected by a transverse communicating branch: these must, if possible, be avoided, or at once secured. (4) Cut through the inter-muscular fascia connecting the edges of the sterno-hyoids and sterno-thyroids, and separate them with the handle of the scalpel; also turn aside the inferior thyroid veins, the flii/roidea iina artery (if present), and the isthmus of the thyroid body, and some loose cellular tissue will now be brought into view. After the deep fascia of the neck is divided the hJcuJe of the knife must be laid aside ; after this use the handle of the knife or Spence's hernia director. Turn aside this loose tissue with the point of the finger or the handle of the scalpel, and the trachea is then exposed, and may be opened (either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body, as circumstances may detevniine) thus:— Transfix and draw it forwards by a sharp hook inserted into the cricoid cartilage, and push in the point of the knife—the blade being held between the finger and the thumb half-an-inch from the point, to avoid the risk of transfixing the oesophagus,—with its had- towards the sternum (this is done whether the operation be above or below the isthmus), and cut through three or four rings, and introduce the tube, taking care first that all bleeding7 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. has ceased—unless the bleeding he due to the semi-asphyxiated state of the patient, when obviously the best means to stop it is to open the trachea as quichly as possible. In the high operation, the fascia connecting the isthmus to the cricoid cartilage can be divided by a transverse incision, and the isthmus depressed by tlie handle of tlie scalpel, and hold there by a blunt hook, in cases where it is necessary to increase the space ; or the isthmus may be freely divided in the middle line if necessary, each side being first clamped by a pair of Wells's forceps. The opening in the trachea and the tissues covering it must correspond exactly, otherwise mucus and air will escape into the cellular tissue, pro- ducing emphysema. When the opening is made the handle of the knife must be inserted flat-wise and then turned at right angles, while the Surgeon turns away his head till the jjatient coughs, and after this he puts in a tracliea tube, while the handle of the knife causes the opening to gape; make certain that the tube has passed into the trachea and not into the loose tissue beneath the deep cervical fascia. Some prefer to use a special trachea dilator. The tube is then to be fixed by means of tapes, attached to the outer sheath, which are then to be tied on one side of the patient's neck. Take care that the tapes are not too loose, lest both tubes be forced out during a fit of coughing, and the patient be suddenly choked. The Trachea Tube must be of a size corresponding to the age of the i)atient: in children under eighteen months, a diameter of about one-sixth of an inch is said to be sufficient; from that age up to four years the diameter should be about a quarter of an inch. In any case it must be of such a size as to admit air freely, but without distending the trachea, and should always be double. The inner tube should be /oo.sc ami a Utile louQer than the outer tu])e, so that it may be driven out by coughing should it happen to bocfime blocked up, and still the patient can breathe Chrough tlie outer tube. Were it shorter, or even the same length as the outer tube, then, in cases of block, removal of the inner tube would not relieve the patient, as the outer sheath would still be plugged. The (lutur tube has often an oi)ening on its ujiper and convex surface, by means of which, when the inner tube is removed, one can try, by closing the external opening Avith the8 Applied Anatomy: thumb, whether the i^atient is prepared to breathe through his larynx again; but in this case the inner tube must be always introduced when the patient takes food or drink. In no case should there be an opening in this situation through hotli tubes, for then the patient would also breathe through his larynx, and keep it in a condition of unrest. The tube, in openings of a temporary nature, can usually be removed from the sixth to the thirteenth day. After Treatment.—The extreme ends of the wound are approxi- mated by horse-hair sutures, or perliaps better left entirely open. The bed must be surrounded by a canopy M^hich must be filled with a warm moist atmosphere, and yet contain plenty of fresh air; a careful nurse must be provided, whose duty it is to look after the tube and wound, keeping the inner tube clear, and its outer end covered with warm moist gauze or a small sponge. The causes of death after this operation are—(1) The disease necessi- tating the operation; (2) interlobular suppurative jmeumonia, from blood being inhaled at the moment the trachea was opened; and (3) bronchitis from the inhalation of cold air, as the warming apparatus provided by nature (the nose) is out of use for the present, and its place must therefore be filled by artificial means, such as the bronchitis kettle, warm moist gauze, etc. RESUME of the high operation:— 1. Place the patient in a proper position. 2. Make a sufficiently long incision, beginning over the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and keeping exactly in the middle line. 3. Divide the skin, fat, and superficial fascia, and secure or draw aside any evident vein, such as the anterior jugulars. 4. Divide the deep cervical fascia, and draw apart the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. 5. AVith tlie handle of the knife expose the trachea and isthmus of the tliyroid body, and feel for the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage. 6. Pincli up the fascia over the trachea at this point, and divide it by a small transverse incision close to tlieSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 9 cricoid cartilago; separate it from the trachea by means of Spence's hernia directoi', free it still more from the cricoid cartilage if necessary, and 2)ush down the isthmus with the handle of the scalpel. 7. Transfix and draw forward the trachea, and open it in the middle line, with the blade of the scalpel held between the finger and thumb about half-an-inch from its point, the back of the knife being directed towards the sternum. 8. Keep the opening patent by the handle of the scalpel, or Spence's double blunt hook; let patient cough, then introduce and fix the tube. Note.—(1) If the incision be not exactly in the middle line, it will be difficult to keep the tube in its place; and, besides, the carotid arteries might be injured. (2) Above the isthmus the trachea is f[uite superficial, and, as a rule, has no veins of con- sequence in front, except a communication betAveen the superior thyroids or anterior jugulars; where the isthmus crosses (about the third or fourth rings), there is usually a plexus of veins, besides the isthmus itself; below the isthmus, the trachea is more deeply placed, being covered, in addition to the superficial structures, by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the large inferior thyroid veins, and sometimes by a special arterial branch to the thyroid body—the " thyroidea ima." (3) In stout, short-necked persons, the lower part of the trachea is more deeply placed. The chief diflleulties of the low operation are:—(1) The trachea is deeper, as it gradually recedes from the surface as it passes downwards; (2) the inferior thyroid veins and the anterior jugulars, with a cross branch between them, are in the way; (■"}) the danger to the i.sthmus is greater, because we must cut tovards it, in order to avoid the important structures behind the upper part of the sternum; (4) the thymus body may bo in front of this part; (5) the occasional presence of the "thyroidea ima;" (C) the l(!ft innominate vein may take an unusually high course, and is all tlu! more likely to be in the way when the. head is thrown back ; and (7) the carotids may arise by a common trunk, and in such a case the right passes in front of the lower part of tlie trachea in the neck, in order to reach its usual situation.Applied Anatomy: 10 TRACHEOTOMY IN CHILDREN. Here tlie relations of the parts are somewhat altered. The neck is shorter; " but, relatively, the space is greater between the isthmus of the thyroid body and the top of the sternum, so that the cervical part of the trachea is longer than in the adult" (S pence). But in the child the trachea is smaller, more deeply placed, and more movable than in the adult, and less resistant to the finger, so that it may readily be squeezed flat, or pushed aside; without one being aware of it unless care be exercised; further, it is more flattened anteriorly than in the adult; also, the danger from haemorrhage is greater, on account of the large size of the venous jalexus in connection with the thyroid and thymus glands. There is more subcutaneous fat too; and the carotids are in closer relation to the trachea, so that a sliglit deviation from the middle line may wound one or other of these important arteries.. The innominate artery and left innominate vein are higher in the child than in the adult. The jjresence and large size of the thymus body in the child will further complicate the operation. Accord- ing to Dr Symington the usual position of the larynx in relation to the vertebral column in the new-born cliild is from the lower border of the atlas to the middle of the fourth cervical vertebra; in the adult it extends from the middle of the third cervical to the lower border of the sixth cervical. He does not believe that this high position is due to its relatively small size, as often stated; and he further believes that its downward movement is caused by the growth of the facial portion of the skull. A small hard pillow, such as a stocking stuffed with towels, is placed under the neck, and the episternal notch is taken as the guide, the incision beginning a finger's-breadth above this; this point is chosen as the guide, because in the child it is difficult to be (|uite sure about the position of the cricoid cartilage, as it is softer than in the adult. It is very important to keep both the head and the incision exactly in the middle line. Tracheotomy is the operation for children., In the child the crico-thyroid .=ipace is too small to allow of the introduction of a tube of sufficient calibre to support life, and therefore tracheotomy should always be preferred. Not only is the opening too small,Siirgicd/, Medical, ami Operative. 11 but it is also too near the larynx and vocal cords, and hence the tulje may cause much irritation and even ulceration of the larjaix and necrosis of the cartilages, as the conditions in the child requiring this operation are usTially of an acute inflammatory nature. In the child it is better for the Surgeon to grasp and steady the whole of the structures, including the trachea, between the two carotids (I.e., excluding the carotids) between the finger and thumb of his left hand; in this way he will, with most certainty and Avith greatest ease reach and open the trachea, and with less risk of wounding important neighbouring organs. Whether this operation is performed in children or in adults do not put it off till the patient is moribund, and never leave the operation uncompleted, when once begun, whether the patient be alive or dead. It should be performed whenever the voice is lost or nearly lost, and the degree of obstruction is marked as shown by the indrawing of the lower ribs, the epigastrium, and the episternal notch, during inspiration. It should be remembered that an enlarged thymus gland in infants may cause great dyspnoea, and even suffocation. LARYNGOTOMY. The crico-thyroid membrane is quite superficial, and may be felt as a slight depression about one inch below the " pomum Adami." If the case is urgent, open by plunging in the knife at once; if not, Ave may take the matter more coolly. Over the space make a vertical incision in the middle line through the skin, about an inch in length, and then make a cross cut through the membrane. The only danger likely to arise is ha?morrhage from the small arteries Avhich cross and anastomose in front of the membrane (the crico-thyroid branches of the superior laryngeals). They are seldom a source of trouble; and by making a cross incision they arc not likely to Ije wounded. Cases, however, are on record where serious and even fatal hifmorrhage occurred from these vessels; I have myself seen a subject in the dissecting-room where a trunk as large as the radial artery cro.ssed in front of the crico-tliyroid membrane. Laryngotomy is to be preferred in the adult because:—(1) The opening is often quite as good as in the trachea; (2) it is farApplied Ajiatoiny: 12 safer, from the simple anatomy of the parts; (3) it is more quickly performed; and (4) diseases which necessitate the operation in the adult have little tendency to spread downwards. It should be used, as a rule, in the adult male; it is best in cases of foreign ])odies impacted in the larynx, limited chronic disease, as syphilitic ulceration, acute or chronic oedema glottidis, tumours of the larynx, spasm of the muscles of the larynx from reflex irritation, as in cases of aortic aneurism. But in cases of foreign bodies in the trachea, bronchi, or pharynx, and as a preliminary to other opera- tions about the head and face, where there is danger of blood passing down the trachea, then tracheotomy should be performed. (Edema Glottidis.—QEdematous infiltration about the larjnix may occur in simple acute laryngitis in the adult, but is very often erysipelatous in character, and is chiefly confined to the sub- mucous areolar tissue roimd the epiglottis, ar3'^teno-epiglottidean folds, and arytenoid cartilages, ventricle and false cords. In these situations the sub-mucous tissue is very abundant and loose and freely movable, and readily becomes infiltrated and distended M'ith serous effusion—so much so, as almost to occlude the rima glottidis. But this effusion and distension never extends below the true vocal cords, being limited at this jioint by the direct adhesion of the mucous membrane to the fibrous tissue forming the cords, without the intervention of anj^ sub-mucous coat. The SAvollen folds over- lap the chinlf of the glottis and cause in the first instance difficulty of iiispiraiion, which is prolonged and stridulous, but after a time expiration is affected as well. INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. For the modern form of this operation we are indebted to ]Jr J. O'DwYER, of New York. It is intended to take the place of tracheotomy, in suitable cases, more especially in the case of children suffering from croup or diphtheria; it is a bloodless operation, and for this reason alone is likely to be preferred by the patient's jDarents or friends. Instruments—(1) A gag; (2) an introducer; (3) an extractor; and (4) five tubes of different sizes. The tubes vary in length and size; at the upper end of each tube is a diamond-shaped head with rounded angles, which rests upon the ventricular bands and prevents the tube from sUjjping into the13 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. trachea. Tlie anterior aspect of the head is bevelled off where it rests against the base of the epiglottis, and at its anterior part is a small eye, through wliicli a double thread is passed, lielow the the neck is a fusiform enlargement, to make the tube self-retaining. Each tube is fitted witli a jointed obturator, in the upjjer end of which is an opening to receive the introducer. Tlie stem oX the introducer is fitted with a sliding tube, which may be pushed for- wards by a thumb-piece to release the obturator from the laryngeal tube when the latter is in position in the glottis. The extractor is constructed on the principle of a dilator. When used, the closed bhides are passed into the end of the laryngeal tube ; a lever on the handle is then pressed down to open the blades, which impinge against the inner aspect of the tube, and hold it firmly so that it may Ije witlidrawn. The Operation.—A suitable tulje should be threaded with silk or linen tluead, making a loop about sixteen inches in length. The obturator should then be screwed upon the introducer and the tube attached; the instrument is then ready for use, and should be placed upon a table within easy reach. The child is wrapped in a shawl and held upright in the nurse's lap, with its liead resting against her left shoulder; an assistant stands behind, to hold the gag and steady the child's head. The gag is inserted on tlie left side. The Surgeon then passes his left index Knger "ver the tongue, behind the epiglottis, and feels the arytenoid cartilages; then the introducer, with the tube attached, is passed under the forefinger and directed into the larynx, and, when through the glottis, is lield by the index finger while the obturator is disengaged. The thread attached to the tube is allowed to remain tiU the child has cleared the trachea and got over the dyspnoea caused Ijy the introduction; the finger is then unce more placed upon the head of the tube, the thread divided and withdi'awn. The object of the tJiread is to enable the tulie to be withdrawn, should it have been passed into the pharynx. iSo anaesthetic is used, nor does the child complain of pain. Should any difficulty be experienced in the fii'st attempt, the apparatus should be withdrawn to give the child air. That the tube has entered the larynx will be indicated by violent coughing and easy respiration. The tube should be removed probably from the fourth14 Applied Anatomy: to tlic sixth clay, in order to avoid the risks of undue pressure. In extracting the tuhe, the child is placed in the same position as for its introduction; try, first gently without an anaesthetic, but should you fail, then an anassthetic should be given. The advantages of the operation are, its ease of performance (to the expert), the absence of shock and htemorrhage, and tlie fact that one can more readily gain the consent of the parents for the operation. The greatest difficulty, as well as danger, i.s tlie administration of food: the head of the tube interferes Avith the movement of the epiglottis, and the child is unable to swallow fluids without coughing, and, in consequence, suffers very much from thirst. The danger from pneumonia is very great, a.s solid and fluid food finds its M'ay into the trachea. This objection has, however, to a certain extent been overcome by the use of an artificial epiglottis, Avhereby it is possible for patients, if held in the supine position, with the head completely thi'own back over the nurse's knee, to take an abundance of food, both liquid and solid. The dangers of the operation are :—(1) The tube may be coughed up, and before skilled assistance arrives the child may die. (2) The tube may slip into the trachea. (3) The tube may be plugged with membrane, and asphyxiate the child. (4) The membrane may be pushed do\vn before the tube, and give rise to intense dyspnoea, or even asphyxia. (5) The great risk of the entry of food into the trachea, and subsequent pneumonia. The operation is recommended for—(1) Diphtheria; (2) croup; (3) oedema glottidis; and (4) in chronic stenosis of the larj-nx. THE LARYNX. The cartilages of the larynx are nine in number—three single and three paired. The single cartilages are—(1) The shield-like iltyroid, consisting of two lateral wings, and an angle in front, Avhich is very prominent at the upper part, this part being known as Adam's apple, or the ponmm Adami. (2) The signet-rhig-like cricoid, below the thyroid, the deepest part being behind; it is thicker and stronger than either the thyroid cartilage or the rings of the trachea, and for this reason it forms a very useful landmark in the neck. It is about on a level with the carotid tubercle ofSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 15 the sixth cervical vertebra. (3) The epirjlotth, like an obovate leaf in shape, placed behind the tongue, and in front of the superioi' opening of the larynx; during respiration it is vertical, and curved slightly forwards over the base of the tongue; but during deglutition it is carried or pushed downwards and backwards, so as to close the upper opening of the larynx. It is attached to the thyroid cartilage below, by the thijru-e^iighdtic liijmnenf; to the hyoid bone in front, by the hyo-epigloitic ligament; and at the upper part to the tongue, by the median and two lateral ghssa-epiglottidean Ugamcnt--<: to its sides the aryteno-epiglottidean folds are attached. The paired cartilages are — (1) The two arytenoids, perched upon the upper border of the cricoid at its posterior aspect; they are pyramidal in form, and tlic anterior angle, at its base, gives attachment to the true vocal curds. (2) The Cornirula larijngit; (cartilages of Santorini) are perclied u}")on the apices of the arytenoids, and serve for the attachment of the posterior end of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. (-3) The funeiform cartilages (cartilages of Wrisberg) are placed, one on each side, in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The True Vocal Cords.—The true vocal cords are two bauds of yellow elastic tissue, attached in front to the middle of the receding angle between the wings of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilages ; their lower border is continuous with the thin lateral parts of the crico-thyroid membrane. They are called true, as they are concerned in the jn-odiiction of sound; they are further known as the inferior thyro-arjjtenoid ligaments. The mucous membrane covering the true cords is very thin and closely adherent, as there is no submucous tissue, and it is destitute both of mucous glands and ciliated epithelium. The False Cords, or the siij>erinr thyro-arytenuid ligaments, arc simply two folds of mucous membrane with a little fibrous tissue between. Between the false cords abovi; and the true below is situated the ventricle of the larynx; this leads to the laryngeal pouch, which in the human race is very small, but in some of the lower animals it is very large—e.g., some kinds of monkeys, and the various members of the group /'eZ/.s' I)(niipf^lirii>f vel Cidvs, and to this is dvic, no doubt, the hideous noises produced by the latterApplied Anatomy: 16 animals in their nocturnal revels. Small foreign bodies, sucli as peas or pills or small fruit stones, may pass the " Avrong way" and lodge in the ventricles, and quickly cause death from reflex spasm of the vocal cords; the ventricles are supplied hy the superior laryngeal. The length of the cords in the adult male is about five-eighths of an inch (Holden) ; in females and boys thej' are shorter than i]i the adult male. The greater the length of tlie cords, other things being equal, the deeper the voice. The Rim a Glottidis is the opening between the true vocal cords in front, and the bases of the arytenoid cartilages behind \ it consists therefore of two parts—(1) The vocal part in front, between the cords; and (2) the respiratory part behind, between the cartilages. It is the narrowest part of the larynx, and in the male it measures rather less than an iuch in length, and is about a third to lialf-an-inch in breadth when dilated; in the female it is less by two or three lines. Duriug quiet breathing the opening represents a narrow isosceles triangle with the l>ase behind, the sides, at the posterior part, being shghtly bent iuAvards at an obtuse angle. In inhaling a very deep breath, they are separated to the widest jJossible extent, and represent a wide, almost pentagonal, opening. During the emission of a high note, the opposite cords and cartilages are abnost in contact, leaving a narrow parallel slit between them. The intrinsic Muscles of the Larynx.—(1) Crico-arytenoideus posticus—Each muscle arises from the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, passes upAvards and outwards, and is insi^rtcil into the posterior external tubercle of the arytenoid. (2) Crico- arytenoideus lateralis — Each muscle arises from the up]ier border (jf the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage, passes upwards and backwards, and is inserted into the posterior tubercle of the arytenoid cartilage. (3) Arytenoideus — A transverse band of muscular fibres passing from the posterior surface of one arytenoid cartilage to the same part of the other. (4) Crico-thyroid—Each muscle arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower border of the thyroid, including the lesser cornu. (5) Thyro - arytenoideus—Arises from the angle between the wings of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the front part (if tlic l)asp of llic arytenoid cartilago; tliey lie parallel with and toSurgical, Medical, and Operative. Vj the outer side of the true vocal cords. All the muscles, exce^jt tlic The Joints of the Larynx.—(1) The Crico-thyroid Joint— Betweeu tlic inferior coriiua of the thyroid cartilage, and the lower and posterior part of the side of the cricoid cartilage. The movements that stretch or relax the vocal cords take place at this articulation, i.e., the movements that govern pitch of notes; the axis of the joint is transverse, and the thyroid cartilage moves up and down like the handle of a bucket: the arytenoid cartilages may also be tilted backwards at the same time. (2) The Crico - arytenoid Joints— Between the arytenoid cartilages and the upper part of the cricoid behind \ the movements that govern the width of the rima glottidis take place at this articulation. The axes of these joints are vertical, the movements being chiefly rotatory. The Movements of the Larynx :— 1. At the Crico-thyroid Joint— Crico-thyroids render the true vocal cords tense. Thyro-arytenoids relax the true vocal cords. 2. At the Crico-arytenoid Joint— The Arteries of the Larynx.—The laryngeal branches of the superior and inferior thyroids. The Nerves of the Larynx.—The superior and the inferior, or recurrent, laryngeal branches of the vagi, with twigs from the sympathetic. The superior supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with sensation, tlie crico-thyroid muscles, and half of the arytcnoidcus. If this nerve be irritated, as wlicn a crumb of bread goes the wrong way, two events take place—(a) An inhibition of inspiration, and (i) an exciting of tlie expiratory centre — a cough; this is important, as the first prevents it being drawn in furtlier, and tlie cougli forces it out. If the trunk of the nerve be pressed on—as by a carotid aneurism high up, enlargeil glands, or enlarged thyroid,—we have the peculiar bras-sy cougli, but without expectoration. It should be noted arytenoideus, arc paired. The posterior crico-arytenoids The lateral crico-arytenoids The arytenoideus widen the rima glottidis (the abductors). close the rima glottidis (the adductors).Applied Anatomy: 18 also, that irritation of this nerve will cause reflex spasm of the glottis and death from asphyxia—e.g., a foreign hody in one of the ventricles. The inferior, or recurrent, branch is principally motor, and supplies the intrinsic muscles not supplied by the superior. Pressure upon the trunk of this nerve first causes sjKisiii of the muscles of the larynx, due to irritation of the nerve—later, paralysis, from destruction of the nerve, or from the intense pressure. The siqm-ior larijngeals lie behind the internal carotid artery; the rigid recurrent laryngeal hooks round the first part of the subclavian, lying on the apex of the pleura and lung, and farther up, lies behind the common carotid and the inferior thyroid arteries; the left recurrent laryngeal hooks round the arch of the aorta, and then, like the right, ascends by the side of the trachea in the groove between it and the oesophagus. Subclavian, aortic, or carotid aneurism, and malignant disease of the Avails of the oesophagus, therefore, may press on and mvolvc the recurrent nerves, and may cause death from spasm of the glottis, as well as -by direct pressure on the trachea. The left nerve is more frequently paralysed than the right, probably from its longer course, and its relation to the arch of the aorta. With the Laryngoscope the following structures can be seen:— The base of the tongue, the upper surface of the epiglottis with its lip and cushion, the glosso-epiglottidean folds or ligaments, the arytenoid cartilages, the true and the false vocal cords, the ventricles of the larynx, the aryteno-epiglottidean folds on each side, with two rounded elevations, corresponding to the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini ; and sometimes, in deep inspiration, one may even see the rings and bifurcation of the trache;i. Results of Paralysis.—The superior laryngeal: this causes anassthesia of the larynx and epiglottis, so that particles of food can readily enter the larynx; the vocal cords cannot be made tense, so that the voice is hoarse and deep, and the cords may be seen sAvinging loose. The paralysis may be caused by the pressure of tumours and aneurisms, but is usually a sequel to diphtheria, or a symptom of bulbar paralysis. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal may also l)c paralysed Ijy the pressure of tumours in the posterior mediastinum andSurgical, Ilfedical, and Operative. 19 anciirisms; or the paralysis may be due to degeuerative cliaiiges of the large ganglionic nerve cells in the medulla and pons— e.(j., iu glosso-lahio-pharyngo-laryngeal paralysis (or, more shortly, Bulbar puralijsiti). Both nerves are liable to be aflccted in central disease, and also occasionally in some forms of bronchocele or goitre, enlarged bronchial or cervical glands, from lymphadenoma or scrofulous aflections, and in cancer of the upper part of the cosophagus, though in this latter condition one only may be affected; the right nerve alone is often involved in the intlam- matory and cicatricial changes consequent on phthisis of the apex of the right lung. When both nerves are j^aralysed, the cords are fixed and immobile, in the " cadaveric position" very like M'hat is found in ordinary quiet breathing, not so close as in phonation, nor so open as in deep inspiration. Bilateral Paralysis of the Adductors, or the muscles that close the glottis, is sometimes found in hysteria and debility, and is marked by complete aphonia, and the cords remain in the position of inspiration. Unilateral Paralysis of the Adductors may result from chronic poisoning by lead and arsenic, or from diphtheria, also from disease uf the nerves or nerve centres; aneurism of the arch of the aorta may cause paralysis of the left adductor; aneurism of the right subclavian or carotid, paralysis of the right adductor; but in these cases it often affects the abductor as well. There is aphonia or dysphonia, and the character of the cough, sneeze, and laugh are greatly altered in tone. The laryngeal nerves may be paralysed at their origin, or from injury to the nerve trunks. Paialysis at their origin is seen in multiple sclerosis and bulbar paralysis, and usually affects both sides. Peripheral paralysis may occur near the roots of the spinal ficcessory and vagus, or attack the vagus after it has been joined by the spinal accessory, or the recurrent nerve may alone be allectcd; such peripheral paralyses are usually unilateral, and arc caused by such conditions as aneurism of the arch of the aorta, mediastinal tumours, usually affecting the left nerve; aneurism of the innominate and right subclavian, usually all'ccting the riglit nerve; while thyroid tumours, or g(jitre, and cancer of llie u'soi)hagus may affect one or both.Applied Anatoviy: 20 Paralysis of one Recurrent Nerve—The piiralysed cord lies in tlic cadaveric position, the healthy cord possesses its full range of movement, and on phonation it crosses the middle line, so that the *arytenoids are crossed and the glottis assumes an oblique position; the edge of the paralysed cord is slightly excavated. The healthy cord, therefore, accommodates itself to its paralysed fellow, so that the patient can still speak, though his voice is altered, being weak, and easily merges into the falsetto if the pitch of the voice be raised. Paralysis of the Abductors or Glottis Openers (the posterior crico-arytenoids).—When both arc affected the vocal cords lie close together in the middle line. It is indicated by pure inspiratory dyspnoea with stridor, associated with an almost normal voice. It is a very dangerous condition, as the approximated cords become still further approximated in inspiration, forming a kind of valve like the two sides of a reversed V, giving rise to intense inspiratory dyspnoea; on phonation the parts assume their normal condition. "When this condition becomes marked, it Avill be necessary to per- form tracheotomy. When one side is affected, the affected cord lies in the middle line, but respiration is free (unless combined with- direct pressure), and there is only dyspnoea and stridor on exertion, as the opening in the glottis is sufficient for ordinary breathing. The abductors are apt to be paralysed from pressure on the recurrent laryngeal, as from aortic or innominate aneurism. Bilateral Paralysis of the Abductors (imsterior crico-aryte- noids) may be caused by central disease, or affections implicating both vagi or both recurrent laryngeal nerves, as bronchocele, enlarged bronchial or cervical glands from lymphadenoma or scrofula, and cancer of the oesophagus. Unilateral paralysis may be due to the same causes, but is more frequently due to peripheral affections, and not so often to central.. Tlie usual causes are—Aneurism of the arch of the aorta, cancerous or glandular tumours of the mediastinum (sujjei-ior or 2>oderior), affecting especially the left nerve; cancer of the oesophagus, enlarged strumous glands, and tumours of one side of the trachea, often affect one nerve, usually the left, but sometimes the right. Paralysis of the Arytenoideus. — In phonation, the cords act normally, but the posterior third gapes, forming a little triangle,21 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. as the arytenoid cartilages are not approximated; tlie air escapes througli this opening and the voice is lioarse. Paralysis of the Thyro-arytenoids.— During phonation, the free margins of the cords are excavated, they seem narrow and bhirred; the glottis assumes the shape of a narrow oval. One or both cords may be alfected. The most common Simple Tumours of the larynx are papillo- mata and fibromata; they usually spring from the anterior parts of the vocal cords. Malignant Disease is practically always cancerous in nature, very usually epithelioma; if it begins in the larynx, it usually starts over the pharyngeal aspect of the anjienoid cartilages; it may also spread from or to the upper part of the oesophagus. The commonest Ulcerations are—Tertiary syphilitic, tubercular (laryngealphthisis), and epitheliomatous. The Syphilitic may arise from superficial ulceration, softening of a gumma, or from peri- chondritis ; it usually attacks the base of the epiglottis first, and spreads round the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Tubercular Disease usually begins in the inter-arytenoid fold and the laryngeal surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages; the cartilages appear as two large, pale, pyriform swellings, the broad ends of which point upwards and out- wards. It then spreads along and destroys the true vocal cords; further, the cartilages of Santorini and Wrisberg are lost, and the inter-arytenoid notch can no longer be distinguished. EXCISION OF THE LARYNX. The position of the patient and operator are the same as in trache- otomy. The following are the chief steps of the operation:— 1. Make a vertical median incision from the hyoid bone to the second ring of the trachea, cut through the deep fascia and separate the structures from the front and sides of the trachea, but do not interfere with the isthmus of the thyroid body, though tlic lateral lobes will have to be pushed aside. 2. Secure all bleeding vessels, both arteries and veins, prin- cipally the sup(?tior thyroid vessels and middle thyroid veins. iJraw forwards the trachea with a sharp hook and cut it acro.'<s, taking care not to injure the a'sophngus wliicli lies just behind it.Applied Anatomy: 22 4. An accurately fitting vulcanite syphon tuLe is noM^ to be inserted into the uj^per end of the divided trachea, through -which the patient may breathe, and -which will at the same time exclude all blood from the trachea. 5. Lastly, se^Darate tlie larj'nx from its posterior and upj^er attachments, and in dissecting out the cricoid keep the edge of the knife against it so as to avoid injuring the gullet. When the surfaces have healed and the gap in the throat partly contracted, Gussenhauer's artificial larynx, or the modification of it introduced by the late Dr FouLis, of Glasgo-n'-, may be used. Chief Structures divided — (1) The skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. (2) The sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, inferior constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, and palato-pharyngeus; the stcrno-hyoid and the omo-hyoid may be pushed aside. (3) The anterior jugular vein, superior thyroid vessels and their branches, probably facial and lingual plexus of veins in this region, and middle and thyroid vein. (4) Nerves—T-wigs of facial and super- ficial cervical, and superior and inferior laryngeals. (5) Trachea. (G) The thyro-hyoid ligaments, the hyo-epiglottic hgament, and the glosso-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane. CUT THROAT. This may be—(1) Above tlie liyoid bone, -when probably the folio-wing structures -will be divided:—Skin and superficial fascia, radicles of anterior jugular veins, deep fascia, anterior belUes of the digastric muscles, mylo-hyoids, genio-hyoids, genio-hyoglossi, and probably right through into the floor of the mouth, implicating the tongue. Lingual artery, branches of the facial vessels, hypoglossal nerve, lingual nerve, and submaxillary gland. In this case the patient is unable to swallow at all. (2) Below the hyoid bone— The integumentary structures, anterior jugular veins, facial and superior thyroid veins, sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles, thryo-hyoid membrane, inferior constrictor, internal branch of superior laryngeal nerve, superior laryngeal artcrj^ and probably also the superior thyroid and lingual arteries too.' This cut may divide the epiglottis and open into the pharynx; there is con- siderable difficulty in swallowing, and great risk of mJema (jlotfidi.-^. (3) Below the box of the larynx, a rare form—The integuments.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 23 anterior jugular veins, the sterno-liyoids, stemo-thyroids, omo-hyoids, possibly the sterno-mastoids, thyroid gland, superior and inferior thyroid arteries, the thyroid veins, especially the inferior, recur- rent laryngeal nerves, trachea, and oesophagus, and the pre-vertebral muscles. In most cases the head is thrown so well back that the gash may extend right down to the vertebrte without injuring the carotid arteries, and therefore without causing immediate death; the lower down the cut is made, the more likely are these vessels to be opened. The dangers are—(1) Great and fatal h.osmorrhage at once from a large artery, or more slowly from the venous plexuses; (2) less rapid death by being gradually choked by the blood inhaled into the windpipe; (3) later, septic jDneumonia from the entrance of blood into the bronchi and pulmonary vesicles; (4) bronchitis from the entrance of cold air; and (5) asphyxia from sudden oedema glottidis. When a large vessel, like the carotid artery, is divided, death is sudden, and the weapon usually falls from the hand, on acconnt of the sudden loss of blood causing syncope and muscular relaxation for the time being. In cases, however, where no large vessel is divided, death is more slowly produced, being usually caused by asphyxia, and after death the weapon will generally be found firmly grasped in the hand. The risk of cedema glottidis is so serious that it is probably better for the patient to at once perform tracheotomy, then stitch np the gash in the throat, and treat it as an ordinary wound. Suicidal wounds are usually oblique from left to right, and from above downwards— unless the person be left-handed—and are deeper on the left than on the right side. OPERATIONS ON THE (ESOPHAGUS. Relations in tlie Neck.—It is about nine inches in length, and extends from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, or the sixth cervical vertebra, to the stomach—about the level of the ninth dorsal verteljra. In front is the trachea and the thyroid gland; the oesophagus projects a little to the loft of the trachea in the neck ; behind, it rests against the vei'tebra?, following the curves of the column, and also rests on the longus colli muscle ; on each side are the common carotid arteries, the thyroid gland,24 Applied Anatomy: tliG recurrent laryngeal nerves, and infiirior laryngeal arteries. In the lower cervical and ujaper dorsal region the thoracic duct ascends ohliquely between it and the bodies of the dorsal vertebree, from right to left. The narrowest parts of the tube are {a) at its com- mencement; (i) next, where it passes through the diaphragm; and (c) where it is crossed by the left bronchus. Relations in the Thorax. — In front—the trachea, the arch of the aorta, left carotid, left subclavian, left bronchus, and the posterior surface of the pericardium; behind, the vertebral column, longus coUi muscle, the intercostal vessels, and at the lower part, the aorta; laterally, the pleuree, the vena azygos major on the right, and the descending aorta on the left. The viglit vagus passes down in front of the cesophagus, and the left behind it. Foreign bodies impacted in the guUet, especially if they have sharp corners, are very apt to set up ulceration and to penetrate neighbouring parts, such as the aorta — leading to sudden and fatal haemorrhage. Cancer of the gullet, on the other hand, is very apt to ulcerate through into the trachea or bronchi; but it may involve any of the structures surrounding that tube—as the pleura3, pericardium, subclavian, carotid, and thoracic duct. It is not a straight tube, but has three curves—(1) That of the vertebral column, (2) in the neck to the left side, and (3) in the thorax, back again to the middle line and then to the left, and forwards to its opening in the diaphragm. In the thorax, the oesophagus lies between the two pleural sacs—partially touching both, but being in special contact with the right bag. The oesophagus may be obstructed, either from actual changes in its walls, foreign bodies in its interior, or from pressure of the neighbouring structures. Obstruction from changes in its walls may be—(1) Merely spasmodic, usually in nervous women, and recognised by the fact that the dysphagia is not constant. (2) Traumatic, due to organic changes in the submucous tissue, as cicatrisation after injuries—such as simple and specific ulcera- tion, swallowing acid or caustic fluids, etc. (3) Malignant, usually epitheliomatous in nature, and situated either—first, at its upper end; second, at its lower end; or third, where it is crossed by the left bronchus. At these points, as already stated, the tube is ])arrowpd, £),nd probably therefore the irritation is greater thanSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 25 it is elsewhere. (-4) A sj^ccial form, met with in drunkards, is due probably to cirrhosis of tlie gullet (Duncan). The above forms of obstruction must be carefully distinguished from that produced by neighbouring parts, as retro-pharyngeal or retro-03sophageal abscess, aortic aneurism, enlarged mediastinal glands, or malignant disease of the bodies of the vertebras; the most common by far is an aortic aneurism pressing upon the trachea, and this therefore must always be first looked for and excluded before attempting to pass bougies. To pass the Bougie.—Put the left index finger to the back of the tongue, so that it touches the epiglottis, and pass the point of the bougie beyond this till it touches the posterior wall of the pharynx, with an inclination downwards; now remove the finger, ask the patient to swallow, and gently push it down; always be cool and gentle, and should it stick, remove it and try again. The head should not be thrown too much backwards, but should be put into the position one naturally takes up while vomiting. Treatment of Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus.— (1) Keeping the patient alive as long as possible by feeding, but without using any other means; the patient is fed with soft food or pap, as long as possible by the mouth, and Avhen this is im- possible, by the rectum—being slowly starved to death. (2) The occasional passage of a bougie; but this, although it may assist swallowing, irritates the growth and makes it grow faster, and thus shortens life. (3) Insertion of a hollow metal tube through the stricture; this is open to tlie same objections as the bougie, and is even worse, for the tube may drop into the stomach, and necessitate gastrotomy for its removal. (4) Gastrostomy, which is probably the best operation iii most cases, if done sufficiently early. The Lymphatics of the lower two thirds of the oesophagus end in the posterior mediastinal glands; those of the upper part, in tlie deep cervical, lying along the carotid sheath. These regions must therefore be examined in cases of sujiposed malignant disease. The principal operations performed on tlie cesophagus are— 1. CEsophagotomy, opening tlic oesophagus for the purpose of removing a foreign body—a temporary opening. 2. OEsophagOStomy, opening the ftsophagus in order to make a mouth there to feed the patient—a permanent opening. Tlie position of the patient is the saroe as for ligatui'c of the common carotid.Applied Anatomy: 26 Instruments required.— Scalpels, directors, retractors (broad copper), blunt hooks, catch forceps, dissecting forceps, a biilbous- headed bougie, sponges, needles, ligature, etc. Make an incision about four inches in length along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid (as tlie cesophagus in the neck lies to the left of the middle line), beginning about the level of the cricoid cartilage. The incision is almost the same as that necessary in ligature of the left common carotid, low down, but a little nearer the middle line. By making the incision a little higher, the operation of Pliaryngotomy may be performed. Divide the skin, platysma, and fascia, and draw aside the sterno-mastoid, or divide its sternal head. CarefiUly dissect down, with the handle of the knife, or fingers, between the carotid sheath on the outer side, and the trachea and larynx on the inner side. Draw the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles towards the middle line, the thyroid body upwards, the carotid sheath with its contents and the sterno-mastoid outwards, and if the omo-hyoid be in the way, divide it. Great care is now necessary to avoid wounding the thyroid arteries—especially the inferior—passing to the lower angle of the thyroid body behind the carotid sheath; also to avoid injuring the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, which lies between the ojsophagus and trachea. The cesophagus being exposed, pass a bulbous bougie, or probang, through the mouth into it, and cause its walls to project; this is made to serve as a guide for the necessary incision; otherwise the air passages miglit be cut iiito. The operation of a'sophagostomy has been auythiiig but a successful one; there is a great risk of setting up deep cellulitis in the tissues of the neck; but apart from that, the patient very often dies. It is better in almost all cases, I believe, to perform the operation of gastrostomy early. After Treatment.—The patient must be fed through a narrow tube (No. 10 catheter) passed through the mouth, past the wound in the oesophagus, for a few days, till granulations form on the sides of the wound, and close up the inter-muscular cellular planes. No sutures are required for the wound in tlie n'sophagus, or for the external wound either, though after the granulations have formed it may be stitched up if thought necessary. The danger of this operation is the risk of setting up cellulitis in the extensiveSiirg/'cal, Medical, and Operative. 27 intov-musculai" cellular planes of the neck. As the "wound in the a^sophagus is I'jarallel Avith its long axis, thci-e is no risk of sub- sequent stricture. If a permanent opening is desired, the edges of the opening in the a^sopliagus must he stitched to the lips of the skill incision. THE PHARYNX. This is a membrano-muscular sac, about four and a half inches in length, extending from the under surface of the basi-sphenoid portion of the skull to the cricoid cartilage. Behind, it is con- nected by loose areolar tissue, with the vertebrae and the longus colli, and anterior recti muscles. It is connected above to the base of the skull, being attached to the basi-sphenoid, the petrous part of the temporal bone, internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo- maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, posterior nares, mouth, hyoid bone, larynx, and styloid process. In relation to its outer surface, we find the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, the vagus, and the ninth cranial nerves, and the sympathetic trunks. It has seven openings—the two posterior nares {c.hoana' narium) the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and cesophagus. In aneurism of the internal carotid one can readily understand how it tends to bulge into this cavity, pressing in the thin un- resisting pharyngeal wall rather than to make its way to the skin surface through the dense cervical fascia, sterno-mastoid, digastric, stylo-hyoid and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, all of which structures resist its passage in that direction. Pharyngeal Abscesses are lateral or posterior—(1) The lateral are rirmmscrihed abscesses, usually just behind the tonsil; they project inwards, and may simulate an aneurism or malignant disease of the tonsil. There is deep-seated pain in the neck, and pain behind the ear and shooting up the side of the head, along the auriculo-tcmporal nerve; they are said to occur chiefly in rheumatic patients. The pus may make its way out through the gap in the cervical fascia, and present in the parotid region, or at tlie posterior border of the sterno-mastoid; if it does so, tlien it should bo opened at these points by IIii.ton's method; if it is opened from the inside, be careful to turn the edge of the knife inwai'ds.28 Applied Anatomy. (2) Posterior or retro-pharyngeal abscess. — These abscesses are found at the back of the pharynx, bulging forwards; they are usually due to cervical caries; it may also bulge towards the side of the neck. If possible, it should be opened at the posterior edge of the upper part of the sterno-niastoid by "Hilton's method;" if not, it may be aspirated through the mouth. Were it opened in the mouth by a bistoury in the usual way, the sudden gush of pus might choke the patient. (3) There is another possible source of a retro-pharyngeal abscess, viz., the lymph glands in the submucous tissue in front of the vertebrae, towards the upper part of the pharynx. Some of the lymphatics from the nose empty themselves into these glands, which may occasionally suppurate; but in this case there is an absence of symjjtoms pointing to disease of the cervical vertebra}. The abscess, too, is more likely to be circumscribed, though the loose submucous tissue favours the spread of pus round the pharyngeal wall. Foreign bodies are apt to stick in the pharynx, and may cause sudden death from lying over the upper opening of the larynx; this is the usual cause of sudden death from " choking" during eatmg. It is important to remember that in these cases the foreign body is almost always Avithin reach of the fuiger, and the treatment therefore is at once to p)ut the finger down and hook it up. Parotid Duct (Stenson's).—Its course is indicated by a line drawn from the lower margin of the concha of the ear to midway between the red margin of the lip and the ala of the nose; it is about one finger's-breadth below the zygoma. Above it is the transverse facial artery, and below it are some branches of the facial nerve; its length is about two and a half inches, and it begins about the middle of the masseter. It perforates the cheek obliquely, or almost at right angles to its former course, opposite the crown of the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, perforating the buccinator muscle. It is necessary to remember its course, as it may be divided in wounds or operations about the face, and give rise to salivary fistula. The fistula is recognised by the great flow of a watery fluid during mastication, which is alkaline in reaction, and has the power of converting a solution of starch—first into dextrine and then into grape sugar, as shown by the chemical tests for these substances. Thus—29 Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. Iodine + starcli = blue : Iodine + dextrine - red, whicli dis- appears on warming, and does not reappear on cooling: Cupric sulphate and oaustic potash + grape sugar and heat = reddish yellow precipitate of cuprous oxide. The fluid should also give a blood-red colour on the addition of neutral ferric chloride— from the presence of potassium sulpho-cyanide. I have seen one case where the fistula opened just behind the car. The principles of treatment arc the same as in all fistuhc—to make it easy for the secretion to go the right M'ay, by enlarging the opening into the mouth, when the abnormal opening will usually close of its OAvn accord. FIFTH NERVE. Division of the Fifth Nerve on the Face.—The supra-orbital notch or foramen is situated about the junction of the inner with the middle third of the supra-oi'bital margin. From this point a perpendicidar line, drawn with a slight inclination outwards, so as to cross the interval between the two bicuspid teeth, passes over the infra-orbital and mental foranuna. The supra-orbital is covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum; in exposing tliis nerve, care should Ijc taken not to wound the palpebral ligament (a prolongation from the periosteum of the orbit) of the lid, as blood would then be extravasated into the orbit and under the conjunctiva, and the chances of suppuration greatly increased. The periosteum of the orbit, it will be remem- bered, splits into two layers at the margin of that cavity, one of M'hich is continuous with the external periosteum of the skull, while the other forms the tarsal or palpebral ligament. Operation.—The skin of the forehead is drawn upwards and tlic eyelid downwards, and a short curved incision, parallel with the eyebrow or along some natural Avrinkle, the centre being opposite the supra-orbital notch or foramen. Tease through the fibres of the orbicularis witli a director, when the nerve is exposed, lying against the pericranium, and may either be stretched with a blunt hook, or a part removed. It may be done " subcutaneously," i.e., without seeing the nerve, by making a very small incision over its course;, inserting a blunt hook, and scraping it along the bone—hoping in this way to catch up the nerve.30 Applied Anatomy: The infra-orbital is covered by the levator labii siipcrioris, and is about three-eighths of an inch below the margin of the orbit. It may also be stretched subcutaueously, in the same M'ay as the supra-orbital; the better method, however, is by direct incision. Operation. — The upper lip and cheek are drawn downwardw and the lo^ver lid upwards, and a short curved incision is made, with its centre opposite the foramen, and so arranged that, when healed, the cicatrix will fall mto the natural lines of the face. The skin and the fascia, together with the lavator labii superioris, are divided, exposing the nerve, which can then be stretched forcibly, or else an inch of it cut out altogether. It must be pulled well out, so as to rupture its anterior dental hrandi, as the teeth are the usual cause of the neuralgic pain. The nerve has also been divided beyond the origin of the anterior dental branch, by making an incision, parallel Avith, and just beloAV the margin of, the orbit, cutting through the orbicularis and the levator labii superioris, aud turning the latter muscle down, dividing the periosteum at the orbital margin, aiid pushing it up, with fat, eyeball, and all, so as to expose the bony floor. Tension is then made upon the nerve at the infra-orbital canal, and a strong tenotome is used to divide the nerve as it lies in the canal, and which is made to penetrate the antrum; when the nerve is divided it is easily drawn out of the canal, and by this means the anterior dental is ruptured. The part thus dragged out is then cut off. Unless strict antiseptic IDrecautions be observed, this operation is apt to be followed by suppuration of the antrum and orbit. It may also be divided in the spheno-maxillary fissure. Expose it at the infra-orbital foramen as before, and make a small puncture just below the outer commissure of the lids; after this puU upon the nerve by a pair of forceps, and mtroduce a blunt - pointed tenotone through the small incision, and put it backwards aud downwards till its point is felt to be in the fissure, Avhen it is made to shave along its maxillary border. As soon as it is divided the nerve will easily pull out of the canal. To expose the nerve in the spheno-maxillary fossa, a h-shaped incision is required, the vertical part extending from the outer margin of the orbit down- wards to a point opposite the last molar tooth, and the horizontal part Ijackwards to the root of the zygoma. The malar bone and31 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. zygoma arc tlien cut through, and the arcli turned down along with the masseter muscle; the fatty tissue and the temporal muscle are then pushed forwards by a blunt instrument, and, if necessary, divided, or the coronoid process may be divided, and the temporal muscle thrown up as a whole, the posterior wall of the upper jaw found, which will guide to the fossa. The nerve is then hooked np, and as much as possible removed. The bleeding from the venns plexus in this situation, and from the branches of the internal maxillary artery, may be free; and the operation has been followed by stiffness of the lower jaw. It is also possible in this way to reach and destroy, or excise, Meckel's ganglion. The Mental Branch of the Inferior Dental is found below the depressor anguli oris muscle, midway between the alveolus and the lower border of the jaw in the adult. It may either be stretched " subcutaneously " or by the direct method, in a manner similar to the preceding nerves, and should, if possible, be reached by an incision through the mucous membrane of the mouth. The Trunk of the Inferior Dental may be exposed by making an incision over the ramus of the lower jaw, trephining over the point where it enters the dental canal, and then excising a por- tion of the nerve. It can also be reached by making an incision immediately in front of the masseter, disjjlacing the fatty tissue and the buccinator muscle forwards, and then, by means of a blunt hook, the nerve may be caught and stretched or divided. The objections to this method are—(1) The great risk of dividing the branches of the facial nerve, and (2) one is very apt to open into the cavity of the mouth. In trephining the ramus, remendjer that the nerve enters the canal on a level with the upper border of the molar teeth, at a point rather nearer the posterior than the anterior edge of the ramus. In this operation two important points should be kept in mind—• (1) To make the external incision in sucli a way that the facial nerve will not be injured ; either make it parallel with the nerve at the point where you wish to trephine, or else go below the level of the nerve and make a curved incision over the angle of the jaw, and turn up the masseter. In this way the branches of the facial nerve are lifted up with tlie llap. (2) Tlie second important point IS not to open into the cavity of the mouth, for then it will beApplied Anatomy: 32 impossible to keep the wound aseptic. In making the incision, we must also avoid Avounding Stenson's duct. We may trephine— (1) So as to find the nerve before it enters the bone, or (2) so as to find it in the bone. It is probably better to take it just before or at its entrance into the bone, because at this point the lingual nerve may also be divided through the same opening. Both nerves in this situation lie on the internal pterygoid muscle, the lingual nerve being about half-an-inch anterior to the inferior dental. Between the cavity of the mouth and the nerves in question we have — (1) Part of the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, (2) the internal pterygoid muscle, (3) part of the sirperior constrictor of the pharynx, and (4) the mucous membrane of the mouth. In using an incision parallel with the branches of the facial nerve, over the point Avhere Ave Avish to trephine, the following Structures Avill probably be divided — (1) The skm and the superficial and deep fascia, (2) some outlying lobules of the parotid gland or socia, (3) the facial vein or some- of its large tributaries, (4) the masseter muscle, (5) the periosteum, and (6) bone. After having made the incision through the soft parts and the periosteum, this latter structure should be turned aside Avitli the elevator; the trephine is then applied, and the circle of bone remoAi-ed, the nerves hooked up, and as much as possible of their trunks excised. By the parallel incision the branches of the facial nerve, the transverse facial vessels, and the duct of tlie parotid gland will usually escape injury. The Auriculo-Temporal Nerve may be reached as it crosses the root of the zygoma, and hehind the temporal artery; exjDOse the nerve by an incision parallel to its course, and stretch it, taking care of the temporal vessels. Before, hoAvever, resorting to such extreme measures for the relief of neuralgia, etc., it is a good plan ahvays to examine the mouth, and direct the patient to get rid of all rotten teeth, AA'hich are perhaps the most common cause of neuralgia. Division of the Lingual Nerve Gudatonj").—This being the nerve of common sensation to the anterior tAvo thirds of the tongue, its division has been practised inside the moutli, Avith the view of relieving the paiu of cancerous ulcers of that organ, andSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 33 diniiuishing the ijrofuse salivation iu cases where operation is out of the question. It is a branch of the third division of the fifth, and opposite the second molar tooth it is simply covered by the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. 1. Hilton's Plan. — This is to divide the nerve oj^posite the second molar tooth, where it can be raised by a blunt hook, seen, and divided; here it is only covered by the umcous membrane. But in cases where the disease has involved the floor of the mouth this plan is inapplicable, and, further, the guides to the spot in question are not quite definite. 2. Mr Lucas gags the patient and then passes a strong silk ligature through the tip of the tongue, and pulls it forwards, and to the opposite side to that on which he is to divide the nerve. In this way the nerve is seen standing out as a firm cord, extending from the angle of the jaw along the side of the tongue. A sharp hook is next passed beneath it, the mucous membrane divided over it, and the nerve then cut, stretched, or a portion removed, as the Surgeon may think fit. 3. Moore's Plan. — He divides the nerve further back than Mr Hilton, and takes as his guide the last molar tooth. Guide.—A line drawn from the middle of the crown of the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw. The junction of the upper with the middle third of this line indicates the point where it should be divided. It lies about half-an-inch from the tooth, between it and the anterior pillar of the fauces, parallel with, but behind and below the prominent alveolar ridge on the inner side of the body, and ascending ramus of the lower jaw. Enter the knife about three-quarters of an inch behind and below the last molar tootli, and cut down to the bone, and the nerve is certain to be divided. It is doubtful if mere division of a nerve will cure neuralgia, as the nerve usually unites again with great rapidity; it would probably be better, therefore, to remove an inch or so of the nerve, as it has been found tliat anything under an inch will almost certainly unite, so great is the growth from the central end of the divided nerve. Tlie reason why the nerves unite so very readily and surely after division or excision for neuralgia, is because they are, as a rule, in bony canals, and the canal acts as guide to the central end, leading it to the proximal^4 Applied Anatomy: end; hence, the central end, instead of formmg a bulbous mass, unites with the ijroximal. The cause of neuralgia of the fifth nerve is very frequently bad teeth, but there are other causes besides the so-called "idiopathic." The nerves are enclosed in rigid canals lined with periosteum and are accompanied by venous and arterial plexuses; any slight swelling of the periosteum, therefore, may press on the nerve and give rise to paiu. Vasomotor changes also, by dilating the arteries, may produce the same effect, as well as passive venous congestion. It is a curious fact how an aching tooth seems to groAv better all at once when one sets out for the dentist's consulting room: the cause is probably due to contraction of the vessels, from the peculiar mental state stunulating the vaso-motor centre. THE TONSILS. The tonsils are glandular organs, consisting of much adenoid tissue and mucous glands. In the substance are a number of recesses (twelve to fifteen) from which numerous foUicles branch out into the gland; the recesses open by small orifices on the surface. Around the follicles are a number of closed capsules of adenoid tissue, resembling the solitary glands of the intestines. The follicles and recesses contain a thick greyish secretion; when inflamed, plugs of thickened mucus and softened epithelium fill the openings on the surface, causing great foetor of breath, from the decomposing epithelium, and give rise to an appearance often called "diphtheria"—from the whitish-yellow patches plugging the recesses. It is extremely difiicult to distinguish follicular tonsillitis from true diphtheria with certainty; if the redness and l^atches are also found upon the uvula, in all probability it is diphtheria, but if limited to the tonsils it is impossible to say with certainty. There can be little doubt but that unhealthy tonsils are a very frequent cause of tubercular disease of the glands of the neck, and even more widespread tubercular disease; it is a question also whether they are not the source of entrance into the blood of many of the organisms causing so-called idiopathic diseases, as acute necrosis, fevers, etc. Sewer gases seem to have a special tendency to affect chronically enlarged and inflamed tonsils, especially in cases where the gases gain admission to35 Surg'ical, Hfedkal, and Operative. sleeping rooms. The tonsils are situated between the anterior and the posterior pillars of the soft palate; on the outer side they rest against the superior constrictor, and just outside this again we find the ascending pharyngeal and the internal carotid arteries. On the surface, they correspond to the angle of the lower jaw. The tonsils are a long way from the mouths of the Eustachian tubes, and, even when they are enlarged, they could not cause deafness by pressing on these tubes; the deafness accompanying this con- dition is due to hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsils {"adenoid vegefation-s" of the naso-pharynx). When inflamed, the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw, just over the tonsil, enlarge, and hence give rise to the false impression that the enlarged tonsils themselves can be felt beneath the skin. The Arteries of the tonsils come from dorsalis lingure, facial in the neck (ascending palatine and tonsillar), and internal maxillary arteries (the descending palatine), and sometimes an aberrant large branch from the internal carotid, and which may cause serious haemorrhage in excision of the gland. The NerVBS are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, and the second division of the fifth through Meckel's ganglion. In malignant disease there is intense pain shooting up the side of the head along the temporal and auriculo-temporal nerves which the patient thinks is ear-ache, and hence puts a plug of wool in his ear. Lymphatics. — The lymj^hatics from the tonsil pass to the glands near the great horn of the hyoid bone and deep cervical set, also to the deep parotid, and through them to the group at tlie angle of the jaw. In cancerous tumours, therefore, these groups will enlarge. Removal of tlie Tonsils.—In health the tonsils do not project beyond the level of the palatine arches. If they are much enlarged they interfere with respiration, causing defective development, attacks of fever, sore tliroat, and predispose to diphtlieria, ami should therefore be removed; this may be done by a probe-pointed bistoury, with plaster round its heel, so that the lip and tongue may not be cut (see Fig. 121). Seize the tonsil by a vulsellum, pass the knife diredhj haclnmrds in the line of the second molar tooth, and cut downwards and inwards, and on no account turn tlie edge of tlie knife outwards, lest the internal carotid arteryApplied Anatomy: 36 or the ascending pharyngeal hranch of the external carotid, be injured, there being nothing covering these vessels at this point except the pharyngeal aponeurosis and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The adult should not require chloroform as the tonsils are not very sensitive, but children require it. The child is gagged and the tonsil removed either by the knife or guillotuie, only be very careful that blood does not pass into the larynx. The knife (Fig. 121) to use is a straight, probe-pointed bistoury, cutting to the point; it must be very sharp, so as not to necessi- tate sawing of the tonsil. The tonsil should not be " excised " when acutely inflamed— (1) Because it is more painful; (2) it may bleed pretty freely; (3) and most important, it is brittle, and crumbles away in the grip of the vulsellum. Leave it till it is chronic, when the tissue is sufficiently tough to hold by the vulsellum. Mr Spence directs that the tonsil should be cut/?'o??i heloiv upioanls and inwards. The recesses on the inner surface of the tonsil are shaped like Florence flasks; hence, the narrow necks are apt to become blocked up, and then the wide part below forms a very suitable receptacle for fermen- tative changes, and for the growth of se^jtic and other organisms. Some believe that to this condition we must attribute tlie hypertrophied tonsils and the enlarged glands in the neck, and therefore propose that, instead of "excising" the tonsil, we should pass a blunt liook into the orifices and tear up tlie brittle tonsil substance, so as to destroy the narrow neck and secure Fig. 121, Knife for Excision OF Tonsil. Plaster. Tlio kiiifo is a str.iigUt pi-obo- liointed bisto\u-y cutting to the point.37 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. free drainage. This, to the patient, seems a less fovniidablc operation, and could be best done when the tonsil is brittle—^just after an acute attack of tonsillitis; the question, hoAvever, is still suh jucUce. Abscess of the Tonsil.—To open an abscess of the tonsil, the bistoury must be passed directly backwards in the line of the second molar tooth, with the edge directed inwards and upwards; should the patient refuse to have it " opened," he must be told of the risk —viz., that it may burst during the night, when he is asleep, and choke him. The abscess usually tends to point at the upper part, about the junction of the anterior palatine arch with the palate, or almost in the palate itself. THE TEMPORO-MAXILLAEY ARTICULATION. This is described as an arthrodial, but it also partakes of the character of a hinge joint, and has in addition a rolling movement, resembling in these particulars the knee joint. Ligaments.—(1) The external lateral, from the tubercle of the zygoma downwards and backwards to tlie outer surface and the posterior border of the neck of the lower jaw. (2) The internal lateral, from the spine of the sphenoid to the inner margin of the dental foramen; between this ligament and the jaw we find the internal maxillary artery, and the inferior dental vessels and nerves. (3) The stylo-maxillary, from the apex of the styloid process to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw; this ligament separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. (4) The capsular, a thin, loose structure surrounding the joint. (5) The inter-articular cartilage, which consists of white fibro-cartilage, and is placed horizontally between the condyle and the glenoid cavity. It is connected by its circumference to the various ligaments surrounding the joint, and in front specially to the tendon of the external pterygoid muscle. There are usually two Kijnovial memljranes. The Nerves of the joint are derived from tlie auriculo-temporal and the nerve to the niassetcr muscle. There arc two sets of move- ments in this joint—(1) Side to side and forwards and backwards, which arc accomplished by a horizontal, gliding movement of the libro-cartilages and condyles upon tlie glenoid cavities. TheseApplied Anatomy: 38 movements are to a great extent caused by the external pterygoid muscle, and the importance, therefore, of its attachment to botli the bone and cartilage is evident; were it not so, " subluxation " or "internal derangement" would be much more frequent than it is. (2) Hinge-like movements, which take place between the condyle and the cartilage. Movements.—The mouth is opened by the anterior belly of the digastric, mylo-hyoid and geno-hyoid muscles, and gravity. It is closed by the masseter, the anterior part of the temporal, and the internal pterygoid. The chin is protruded by the simultaneous action of the external pterygoids, and retracted by the posterior fibres of the temporal. The grinding movement is caused by the alternate action of the two external pterygoids. The condition of the lower jaw at different periods of life is of considerable importance in medico-legal practice. At birth, the bone consists of two lateral halves, united by cartilage; the body is a mere shell containing the sockets of the milk teeth, and consists of the alveolar portion of the body only—the part ahove the oblique lines—and the angle is obtuse. Towards puberty the basilar part, or the part helow the oblique line, has grown to a considerable extent, and the angle is less obtuse. In the adult, the two parts of the body—the alveolar and basilar—are fully developed, the mental foramen is midway between the upper and the lower borders, the ramus is almost vertical, and joins the Ijody nearly at right angles. In old age, when the teeth fall out and their sockets are absorbed, the basilar part alone reniams, and hence the most of the body is below the oblique line; the dental canal and the mental foramen are close to the upper edge of the body, the rami are oblique, the angle is obtuse, and the cliin approaches the nose. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw.—This is perhaps the. most common muscular dislocation. It is usually caused by some sudden exertion on the part of the patient, or spasmodic action of the depressors of the jaw, as in gaping, fits of laughter, attempting to take too large a bite, etc. It may be—(1) unilateral or incomplete; (2) bilateral or complete, according as one or both of the condyles are displaced. When the mouth is opened the condyle, with the inter-articular fibro-cartilagc, glides forward on toSjirgz'cal, Medical, and Operative. 39 tlie emiuontia articularis; but if this be continued too far, and if, at the same time, tlie external pterygoid muscle contracts forcibly, the condyle slips forward into the zygomatic fossa. In this way a dislocation is produced. Considerable difficulty is sometimes experienced in reducing these dislocations; as to the exact cause of this there is some difference of opinion. Nelaton believes that it is caused by the coronoid process locking against the malar bone, and in one case at least this has been shown to be possible; Ijut Mr Heath simply attributes it to excessive muscular action, the bone being pulled upwards by the temporal, internal pterygoid, and masseter muscles. Probably during the wide gape some of the sensory twigs of the fifth are squeezed, and the stimulus thus communicated to the nerve may reflexly cause contraction of the muscles that pull forward and depress the jaw. It is most likely to be the auriculo-temjioral nerve that is irritated in the same way, for example, as in ear yawning. Tire capsular ligament is not ruptured, and reduction is, as a rule, easily accomplished by dis engaging the condyle, by pressing down with the thumbs, guarded by a towel, in the mouth behind the last molar tooth, while at the same time the chin is pushed upwards and backwards by the fingers. Fracture of the Lower Jaw.—It is caused by severe direct violence. The most common situation is near the canine tooth, on one or other side, as at this point the jaw is ■weakened by the deep fang of that tooth as well as the mental foramen; it is next most frequently fractured at the angle, and lastly close to the symphysis: occasionally the neck of the condyle, or the coronoid process may be broken. Very often the fracture is double, near the canine tooth on one side and at the angle on tlie other. The mucous membrane is nearly always lacerated, and the fracture is therefore compound; tlie mental branch of the fifth is very often injured, either by the fracture directly, or a week or two after, by the growth and ossification of the " callus;" this is indicated hj an ancesthetic patch on the chin and lips. The teeth are generally displaced, or may be split and fall down between the broken surfaces; all split portions and fangs must be carefully removed before the bones arc moulded into position. The fragments are usually displaced by the force that broke the bone. As regards muscular40 Applied Anatomy: action, at the angle the masseter and the internal pterygoid practically balance each other; when the fracture is near tlie canine tooth, the mylo-hyoid tends to pull the broken bone inwards; in a fracture on each side of the symphysis, the central portion would be pulled downwards and backwards by the naylo- hyoid, genio-hyoid, the genio-hyoglossus, and the other depressor muscles of the jaw. Great care must be exercised in the treat- ment of this form lest the tongue fall back, or be forced back by the splint or bandage, and choke the patient. Treatment.—Mould the jaw into proper shape, and then keep the lower jaw fixed against the upper one by a four-tailed bandage; in this way the upper jaw acts as a splint. Some wire the teeth together, but this is apt to spoil them; others use a poroplastic or gutta percha splint, moulded to the jaw, embracing it in front and below; this is of doubtful utility, as the displacement is not outwards but toAvards the mouth. Thomas drills and wires the broken fragments together. The patient will have to be fed through the gap behind the last molar tooth, or where other teeth have been lost, with jiuid food; all talking must be mterdicted. The Four-tailed Bandage.—Take a cotton bandage, three inches wide and four to four-and-a-half feet in length (a Httle more than twice the circumference of the head), and fold it on itself at its middle ; then make a slit large enough to. admit the patient's chin—but not in the centre of the breadth, but in such a way that two inches may be on one side and one on the other. Lastly, make it four-tailed by splitting it lengthwise, in the same manner as the chin slit, to within two inches of the slit on each side; in this way there are two broad and two narrow tails. To apply.—Insert the point of the patient's chin into the slit, in such a way that the broad part of the bandage is underneath the jaw, and take the two broad tails and bring them up and tic loosely over the vertex; then carry the narrow ends back to a point behind and below the occipital protuberance and tie them there ; or, better, cross them there, lead them forwards to the forehead, and tie in front. Eeadjust and tighten the broad half of the bandage, and put in safety pins at the points where the bandages cross cacli other; this will prevent them slipping. This bandage may be used alone, or outside the moulded gutta percha splint.Surgical^ Medical, and Operative. 4] "Subluxation" is jirobably caused Ly a Avant of harmony between tlio movenieuts of the condyle and the fibro-cartilage, from some faidt of the external pterygoid muscle ; hence, the bone slips for a moment in front of the cartilage—Avhich it can easily do as the capsule is so loose—where it is held fixed for a little, but can usually be put to rights by the patient himself, the reduction being accompanied by an audible snap. This corres- ponds to Hey's "internal derangement" of the knee joint, and should be treated in a similar manner. Bursse in the Neci<.—(1) There is one in front of the "pomum Adami; (2) another between the thyroid cartilage and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone; (3) and one between the genio-hyoid and the genio-hyoglossus muscles. The third may not be present; either of the bursai may occasionally be enlarged. The first is the one usually enlarged, and when it is so, it forms a tense rounded tumour, in front or at the side of the thyroid cartilage, and moves with the larijnx during deglutition. SAvelliugs that rise thus during deglutition are the bursal cysts above mentioned, swellings of the thyroid gland (bronchocele or goUre), and cysts in connection with the thyroid. By this sign, among others, one can distinguish these swellings from aneurism of the carotid, sebaceous and dermoid cysts. The one between the muscles of the tongue, when enlarged, may simulate a ranula, only it projects chiefly into the neck, in front of the larynx, and not so much into the floor of the mouth, and is in the middle line; it also forms one of the varieties of " hydrocele of the neck." Venesection from External Jugular.— This maybe useful in cases of croujJ in young children, apoplexy in adults, or in venous congestion of the head or chest. The course of the vein may be indicated by a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. The vein is ci'ossed obliquely by the fibres of the platysma, their relative positions being represented very nearly by the letter X. To secure a good flow, the cut in the vein must be oblique, because if longitudinal the edges Avoidd not gape. But the external jugular must not be opened by a single oblique thrust at once, because the cut would then be parallel with the fibres of the platysma, which by their contraction Avould prevent the free exit of the blood, and might give rise to extravasation and42 Applied Anatomy: thrombus. It slioulil be oldened about tkc middle of the neck while it lies on the sterno-mastoid, because at this point it is most superficial and more firmly fixed. (1) Compress the vein at the lower part of the neck {i.e., on the proximal side) with the thumb of the left hand to make it "rise," and also to prevent the entrance of air after the vessel is opened; some do this by means of a thick compress over the lower part of the vein, held in position by a bandage passed around the neck and under the opposite axilla instead of simply using the thumb (Fig. 122). (2) Make an incision in the sldn onlij, obliquely to the course of the vein. Fig. 122. Venesection from External Jugular. (3) Divide the fibres of the platysma transversely. (4) Open the vein by an oblique incision (exactly the same direction as that made in the skin, but rather smaller). To stop the bleeding place a pad of boracic lint over the wound and hold in position by a domett bandage and plenty of cottoar wool. Internal Jugular Vein.—This is the continuation of the lateral sinus, and just at the base of the skull it is dilated into a sinus or gulf. It lies to the outer side of the internal and common carotids, and joins with the subclavian to form the innominate vein. At first it lies on the rectus lateralis and to the outer side of the internal carotid and the eighth pair of nerves; lower down48 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. tlic glosso-pliaryiigeal and tlie ninth nerve pass forwards between the artery and the vein, while the spinal accessory passes obli(|uely outwards behind (sometimes in front of) the vein, and the vagus passes downwards behind and between the artery and vein. On the right side, at the root of the neck, the vein is a little way to the outer side of the common carotid, but on the left side it usually crosses the artery at this point. The right internal jugular crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. In the jugular foramen this vein lies in the posterior compartment, the end of the inferior petrosal sinus in the anterior, and the three divisions of the eiglith pair of nerves in the middle compartment. Arteriotomy from Anterior Branch of Temporal.—This may be necessary in affections of the eye, e.g., in iritis when there is great pain, although leeches are usually preferred. Its pulsations can be felt about one inch and a quarter behind the external angular process of the frontal bone. Compress on the didal side of the intended opening, to fill and distend the vessel (veins should be compressed on the proximal side). Expose it by cutting through the superficial structures and the dense fascia covering it, and then make an oblique opening into it, taking care not to cut it completely through. To stop the flow, cut the artery completely through, when its coats will, as a rule, contract and retract sufficiently to stop the bleeding; if not, secure by acupressure, or ligature the cut ends. A pad is then to be placed over the wound, and held in position by a "stella" bandage. BRANCHIAL CYSTS AND FISTULJE. About the beginning of the second month of foatal life the pharynx forms an open cavity bounded on each side by four branchial or visceral arches with their corresponding clefts. The. upper end of the cartilage of the first visceral arch (Meckel's cartilage) is ossified into the malleus, and in the membrane sur- rounding the rest of this cartilage the lower jaw-bone is formed; when the lower jaw is very small or altogether wanting, it is from some arrest of development of this arch. From the cartilage of the ■'iccond arch are developed the incus and stapes, the styloid process, and the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and possibly also tlie stylo- hyoid ligament. From the third arch is formed the great cornuApplied A natomy : and body of tlie liyoid bone. Tlie fourtli. arch assists in forming the soft tissues of the neck. Prom the first cleft the external auditory meatus, the tympanic cavity, and the Eustachian tube are developed; the other clefts should unite during early foetal life. The position of the second cleft is between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone; the internal orifice of this cleft corresponds to the fossa of RosENMULLER. The third cleft is sometimes met with passing from over the thyroid body towards the great cornu of Fig. 123. Lines of the Branchial Clefts. Frouto-orbital Fissure .J.'l'.. .r _^ Inter - maxil- f C I /'( n, - lary Cleft.. Vy.li^ Niiso- Cyl maxillary Fissure. ..First Cleft. .. Secoud Cleft. ..Thu-d Cleft. ..Fourth Cleft. P'ourtli Cleft (of other side). the hyoid bone; it may sometimes communicate with the trachea. The fourth cleft passes along the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and may communicate with the trachea or ccsophagus (Fig 123). Branchial Fistulae are formed in two ways—(1) "Where the entire tract remains open; and (2) where one end is closed, the other end opening on tlie skin, the trachea, or nesophagus. They form indurated tracts witli a thick, honey-like secretion, which thickens over the cutaneous orifice; should it coiumunicate withStirgical, Medical, ami Operative. 45 the trachea or ocisophagus, air or food will pass through. The only cure is to excise the whole tract; should it communicate with the air or food passages, then perform Mr Duncan's operation of separating the cutaneous from the mucous surface, and stitching each to each. Branchial Cysts are formed by closure of the cleft at both ends while the middle part is not obliterated. In this way a portion of the epiblast is included and embedded in the deeper tissues, forming the so-called dermoid cysts, and which most frequently develop into prominence from the tenth to the thirtieth year. It is doubtful, however, whether a dermoid cyst and a branchial cyst are the same; the germ of a branchial cyst is laid down Jjefore the appendages of the shin are developed, and, therefore, should only contain epithelium. But the wall of a dermoid cyst contains hair follicles, sweat and sebaceous glands, and occasionally teeth, nails, fingers, etc. Many names are applied to these congenital cysts. Koser calls them branchial cysts; Langenbeck, dermoid cysts of the sheath of the internal jugular vein ; Schede, deep-seated atheromatous tumours; A^irchow, tumours of the branchial clefts; Mannoir, hydrocele colli congenita; Luschka called them hygroma colli, and said that they were probably a cystic degeneration of the " carotid ganglion"; and Luecke, atheromatous cysts of lymphatic glands. A^ery often these tumours have a close connection with the sheath of the internal jugular vein, and hence they will be sliglitly movable from side to side, but perfectly immovable from above downwards. The serous hranchial cyst, or hydrocele, is found in children or in young adults; the walls are very thin and vascular, and the contents serous. They are often situated at the root of the neck, behind the sterno-mastoid, and may dip down to the first rib and pleura, and arc unilocular, and may be symmetrical. Many of the ranulas about the base of the tongue arc probably dermoid in nature; this variety is recognised by its deep position and fixity, and the absence of the usual opalescent or bluish appearance. The term hygroma is more properly applied to midtilocular fibro-cystic tumours, probably from the intra-ut(irine transformation of a suljcuiancous naivus of ordinary type, or it may be a lymphatic nsevus; sometimes one may find a l)it of nfevoid tissue in the neighbourhood, or a great growth of hair.Applied Anatomy: 46 It may be partly solid and partly cystic; it occurs in the sub- cutaneous tissue in the middle line of the neck, in front of the trachea; it also forms one variety of the congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. KANULA. This is a name applied to a cystic tumour in the sublingual region, pushing up the tip of the tongue, and carrying the body of the organ uj^wards and backwards. It interferes with the use of the tongue, and the voice is harsh and croaking, like the sound IDroduced by the croaking of frogs; hence the term ranula. It also interferes with deglutition, and may even affect respiration, threatening suffocation, especially in cases where the swelling forms or increases rapidly, as it does in the form known as "acute ranula." Varieties. — (1) The usual form, -with glairy mucous fluid. It forms a prominent swelling of a peculiar bluish tinge, from the contained fluid being seen through the mucous membrane, usually situated on one side of the middle line. The cyst wall is exceed- ingly thin, and seems to be formed by part of the natural structiires; it is almost impossible, and quite useless, to attempt to dissect out the cyst in the usual form of ranula. Its nature is disputed—(a) Some regard it as a true neoplasm —a cyst of new formation; {h) others as a " retention cyst" formed by obstruction of a mucous foUicle under the tongue { = a mucoiiji cyst); and (c) by others, again, it is regarded as a " retention cyst," due to obstruction of some of the acini (not the main ducts) of the sublingual or the submaxillary glands, as by a calculus. This view is supported by the uniformly constant position and the rela- tions of the tumour, and the slightly sacculated appearance of the cavity when opened, and the absence of a separate cyst wall. The objection is that the contents are not like saliva, and that we meet with similar swellings on the lips, whose contents are also exactly like the glairy mucous fluid of the ranula. {d) There is another possible origin in the sublingual hirsa mucosa, or space between the genio-hyoglossus and the mucous n^ombrane of the floor of the mouth, lined with squamous epithelium, (e) A ranula may also arise in connection with the glands of Blandin and Nuhn. These47 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. glands are found on the under surface of the tongue, near its tip, under the mucous membrane. The glands are of the racemose type of structure, and form two small oblong masses. This view of the possible origin of these tumours receives support from the fact that the tongue often seems to be hollowed out into one huge thin-walled cyst when the finger is introduced. Treatment.—Simple incision and drainage, as sometimes recom- mended, is absolutely useless, and a seton is painful, troublesome, and unnecessary. The plan to be adopted is to seize the upper wall of the swelling with a pair of the old artery forcej^s, and cut out a large oval portion with a pair of scissors, evacuate the contents, and keep this opening patent, by passing a probe into it every day, till it heals from the bottom iipwards; some paint the interior of the cavity with a strong solution of iodine or nitrate of silver, so as to make the obliteration quicker and more certain. The mucous labial cysts, and similar growths of the tongue, are treated in the same way. (2) Another variety of ranula is the dermoid cyst, with porridge- like contents, consisting of epithelial cells, hairs, etc. This form occurs in the situations of the embryonic visceral clefts—either in the middle line or at the side, between the mylo-hyoid muscle and the mucous membrane; it is deeper than the first variety of ranula, and has not the bluish opalescent appearance, but it has a distinct and separate cyst wall, so that it can be entirely removed, both cy.st and contents. This variety often projects under the angle of the jaw, and may be attached to the sheath of the carotid vessels. Tlie treatment is to expose and enucleate the cyst, with the handle of the scalpel, if possible without opening the cyst. (3) A third variety is of the nature of an enlarged bursa, either the suhllncjual hursa mucosa, or the bursa occasionally found above the hyoid bone, between the genio-hyoid and the genio-hyoglossus muscles; this variety may project very markedly into the neck, and, of course, is always in the middle line; it forms one variety of liydroccle colli." Cervical Auricles are often associated Avith branchial fistula?, and when so are usually placed along the anterior border of tlie stemo-mastoid, the fistula lying beneath and partly covered by the auricle.Applied Anatomy: 48 HARE LIP AND CLEFT PALATE. To understand these conditions it will be necessary to say a few words as to their development. Between the first visceral arch and the frontal protuberance of the embryo is situated the buccal depression, which in time becomes the mouth. The Fig. 124. Development of Mouth. Na.so-maxillary Fissure Froii to-nasal Process. Superior MaxiUiiry Process. Mouth. Inferior Slaxillary Process. Fig. 125. The Bones of a Typical Palate. Pre-maxillary Boue, with ' Incisor Teeth. Inter-maxillary Bono, with Tliiid Incisor. Palate Process of Upper Jaw. Palate Bone, with Posterior Palatine Canal. frontal jDrotuberance sends down the fronto-nasal process from which are developed the vomer, the triangular cartilage, and soft coverings of the nose, the pre-maxillary and, when present, the inter-maxillary bones, with their contained incisor teeth, and theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 49 central part of the upjier lip. The fii'st visceral arch divides at its anterior extremity into a superior and an inferior maxillary process. The inferior processes on each side unite at a very early period to form the lower jaw, and the superior maxillary Fig. 126. Completely Cleft Palate. Pre-maxillary Bones, with Anterior Pala- tine Canal. Palate Process of TJljper Jaw. Palate Bone, with Posterior Pal,a- tine Canal. - Soft Palate. Tlie dark line on each side indicates the position of the incisions in cases of operation for the cure of cleft hard palate. The incisions must not injure either the anterior or the posterior palatine vessels, and, therefore, must not go too far forwards or be prolonged too far backwards. processes and the frontal process should also unite together, probably between the sixth and twelfth weeks of fa'tal life, to form the upper lip and complete alveolar ridge (Fig. 124). Any arrest of development during this period will result in more or less complete hare lip, and as the frontal process forms the centreApplied Anatomy: 50 parts of the upper lip and jaw, it is easy to see that tlie gap must necessarily be at one or other side, or on both sides, as tlie case may be. There is a fissure between the fronto-nasal process and the parts that form the vipper jaw and cheek, passing from the inner canthus to the ala of the nose; occasionally there is complete non-closure of this fissure coupled with hare lip on the same side. In this rare condition the lachrymal sac with the canaliculi and the nasal duct are absent, or form an open gutter. In regard to the palate, at the sixth week of faital life the mouth, nose, and pharynx form one large undivided space. Soon, after this, how- ever, a process begins to groAV inwards from the alveolar ridge on each side, which ultimately form the hard and soft palates, except the part in front of the oblique sutures formed by the jDre-maxillary, and sometimes in addition by the inter-maxillary bones, which are developed from the frontal protuberance (Fig. 125). The palate should be comijleted about the ninth week. In the lips and palate, therefore, the line of union is Y-shaped, the upper diverging arms representing the pre-maxillary sutures, while the straight part represents the line of union between the two sides of the palate. Non-union may occur along the whole of this line, giving the most extreme degree of combined hare lip and cleft palate, in which case the part of the frontal process which should have formed the central j^art of the upper lip and alveolus is attached to, or rather has not separated from, the tip of the nose (Fig. 126). It may vary from this, the most extreme form, to a mere slit or dent in one lip, usually the left. The sides of the cleft are usually of unequal depth, a point that must be kej^t in mind in operating. Varieties of Hare Lip— 1. Single Hare-lip : from a mere nick in the free edge of the lip, to a complete cleft into the nostril. The bone may or may not project unduly at one or other side. 2. Double Hare-lip: (a) Without bony deformity (of pre-maxillary bone). {h) AVith marked bony deformity. Either form may be accompanied or not with a greater or less degree of cleft palate. In cases of single hare-lip with marked flattening of one nostril, Mr Anxandale separates the cleft halfSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 51 of the lip very freely from the jaw, but leaves the sound half attached, so as to give a fixed point to pull the other side towards the middle line, in order to lessen the flattening of the nostril. In cases of double hare-lip, the inter-maxillarj'^ bone and the tissues covering it, are, as a rule, only used to form the columna and to push up the point of the nose. In operating for hare-lip, the following Structures will be divided from without inwards:—(1) The skin; (2) the superficial fascia; (3) the orbicularis oris muscle; (-t) the coronary vessels; and (5) the mucous glands and mucous membrane. Note the position of the vessels between the muscle and the mucous membrane. In operating, the chief points to attend to are—(1) To pare the edges freely, so as to give a raw surface with sharp corners and not rounded edges; (2) to loosen the mucous membrane between the lip and the gum freely, to avoid tension on the sutures, and obviate the necessity of such things as trusses, etc.; and (3) to make the vertical depth of the lip too great at first, so as to prevent any nick or dent in the Up afterwards. For this purpose some are content to trust to free paring of the edges and loosening of the mucous membrane and neat apposition with sutures (Tigs. 127, 128); others (as the late Mr Spence) make the raw edges concave, from above downwards (Figs. 129, 130). Nelatox, in cases where the fissure does not extend up to the nose, does not pare off the parts from the sides of the cleft, but leaves them attached to the free edge of the lip, and brings them doAvn so as to make a diamond-shaped wound instead of the usual triangular cleft; a somewhat similar plan niaj^ be adopted in cases where a marked " nick " is left after a previous operation (Figs. 131, 132, 133). The sides are then brought together, and instead of a depression there is a distinct projection at the site of the former deficicmcy. In other cases oidy one of the tags is left, which is then brought across the cleft and stitched to the opposite side. In other cases parts of both tags may be left and turned down, so as to form a little projection at the free border of the lip (Figs. 134, 13.5). The best age for operating will depend on the strength and health of the patient, uidess the want of strength is due to the condition in question, but otherwise no time is too52 Applied Anatomy: Operation for Hare Lip—First Form. Fig. 127. Fig. 128. FIRST STAGE. SECOND STAGE. For Hare Lip Pin or Silver Wire Sii- tui'e. Operation for Hare Lip—Second Form. Fig. 129. Fig. 130. FIRST STAGE. SECOND STAGE. .For Deep Sutiue or Pin. Operation for Hare Lip—Third Form. Fig. 131. FIRST STAGE. Fig. 132. SECOND STAGE. Fig. 133. THIRD STAGE. Incision. .Sutures in Position. Operation for Hare Lip—Fourth For Sutures Tightened. M. Fig. 134. FIRST STAGE. Fig. 135. SECOND STAGE. ^«For Sutures. Part removed. Prolongation of Incision. Tags to be turned down. ..For Deep Sut>n-e or Pin. iSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 58 soon, as tlie amovmt of blood lost is next to notliing, and the operation enables the mother to feed the child better, and also tends to bring the sides of tlie cleft in the palate together. It may be done from a few weeks after birth up to the third or fifth niontli, usually always before the first dentition. If not done by that time, it must be left till after the completion of the lirst dentition—after the second year. Instruments required.—A well-worn and very sharp scalpel, several pairs of Wells's forceps, dissecting forceps, hare-lip pins, wire-cutting nippers, silk sutures for the mucous membrane, horse- hair sutures for the skin, silver wire for deep sutures, adhesive plaster, catgut ligatures, flexible collodion, scissors, sponges—large and small, some fastened on small sticks, or on special sponge holders, or else grasped by a pair of Pean's forceps,—bone pliers, and a large sheet in which to wrap and hold the child. To steady the parts after operation, a button suture is probably better than the old hare-lip pin and twisted suture. In cases of double hare-lip, where there is no deformify of tlie inter-maxillary hones, the edges of the central part are pared, and it is puished up to form the columna of the nose. Where there is bony deformity, the bone may be either pushed back or renioved altogether; to push back, one may use simple force, or partially divide its neck and then force it back; if large and strong, and very projecting, it should be removed, at the same time making use of the muco-periosteal and cutaneous tissues to form the columna of the nose. This should be done as a preliminary operation, some time before closing the cleft. Many years ago, l)x John Duncan first taught that the proper way to operate for fistula—e.g., faecal fistula—was, not to j^are the edges, but to split them. The advantages of so doing are— (1) No tissue is lost, so that the sides are more easily brought together; and (2) it affords a broad raw .surface, along which union may take place. The mucous surfaces are turned inwards and stitched, and then the skin surfaces turned outwards and also stitched. The principle of this excellent method has been ■gradually applied to other fistuhe, congenital or acr^uired ; it was further adapted by I'rofcs.sor Ciiiene to the cure of ruptured pcrina'um, and rccto-uretliral fistida; and (piitc recently, at hisApplied Anatomy: 54 Fig. 136. Operation for Hare Lip—Fifth Method. Skiu Surface Red Border of Cleft. Transverse lucision souic- tirnes necessary. lucision at junction of Skiu and Mucous Membrane. Prolongation of Incision to allow a little tag to be turned down. Tag to be turned down. To show Cleft with Incisions used when Dr Duncan's method is adojjtcd. Fig. 137. Duncan's Method—Lip in Section. Skin Surface. Mucous Surface. Incision at junction of Skin and Mucous Membrane. Aitows indicate how the flaps thus formed are to be turned. Fig. 138. Duncan's Method—Stitching. Arrows show how tlic Skin Fhips are drawn together. Fig. 139. Duncan's Operation—Finished.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. suggestion, it lias beeu extended by Dr Duncan to the treatment of liaro-lip, with the best possible resnlts. Nothing is pared aAvay at all, and instead of the thin scar-like union, ^vc have a broad thick lip (Figs. 136 to 139). The lip is split at the point where the red mucous membrane joins the white skin, and not in the centre, therefore, of its thickness; the mucous membrane is folded inwards towards the mouth, and the skin surface folded outwards, and then each stitched to each. It may be necessary to make short transverse incisions at one or both ends of the vertical cut, in order to allow the skin to fold outwards without wrinkling; and a further short transverse incision may be made at the lower end and a little jiiecc turned vlownwards, in order to have a slight projection at the free edge of the lip, to avoid any approach to a nick afterwards. In suturing the lip some Surgeons use three kinds of sutures— (1) A silk suture is passed through the mucous membrane of the inner side of the lip, and left untied; (2) a deep silver-wire suture is then passed through the tissues of the lip, to steady the parts and act as a splint, but is also left loose ; and (3) horse-hair sutures are used to bring the skin edges together. The sutures thus intro- duced are tied in the reverse order—viz., the horse-hair, silver-wire, and, lastly, the silk suture through the mucous membrane of the prolabiuni. The suture through the mucous membrane (silk) is introduced first, because when the others are tightened it would be almost impossible to introduce it; before tightening it, see that there is no blood clot between the edges of the mucous membrane, as it is important for the after result to secure neat apposition and early union. On account of the narrowing of the nostrils, and the altered condition of the child's mouth in general, for a short time after the operation, it is apt to become semi-asphyxiated, or may even choke altogether, from its tongue sticking against the roof of its mouth; the nurse should therefore be warned about this, and be prepared, with the handle of a teasitoon, to bring the tongue down to the floor of the mouth should signs of choking supervene. In cases Avhere silver sutures are u,s(;d, the mother must be warned about tliem, lest shawls or other articles of dress be caught by the end of the wire, and the sutures torn open ; for the same reason, the, ends of the wire .should be covered up as much as possible.Applied Anatomy: 56 If a hair-lip pin be used its point must also be carefully guarded; it should be removed in forty-eight hours, otherwise it will cause suppuration. Staphylorraphy, or operations for the cure of clefts in the soft palate. In this case it is of great importance to avoid tension on the stitches, as otherwise they are apt to cut their way out. In cases where hare lip and cleft palate co-exist then the lip must be cured first, and very often after this the palate improves •wonder- fully. The operation should be done, if possible, before the child begins to learn to speak. The best age is about the end of the second year, or sometime between the first and second dentitions, say between four and five. It should not be done before this, as there is a good deal of blood lost, and children bear loss of blood very badly. As a child with cleft palate cannot suck, it wiU be necessary to adopt some artificial means of feeding it. In cases where the cleft in the hard palate is very wide, cure by operation is out of the question, the case being one for the dentist; in fact, it is a question whether many of the so-called suitable cases should not be left to the dentist, as the subsequent cicatricial contraction often leads to great deformity of the palate from the approximation Fig. 140. To PASS THE Sutures in Cleft Palate. of the two alveolar processes, and great difficulty of articulation: it is not merely a question of ojjerative dexterity. In less marked cases Ave may adopt Langenbeck's plan of levering up the muco- periosteal tissue with an elevator and making the flaps from the two sides meet across the gap. Before doing so, however, it is necessary to make liberating incisions along the inner side of the alveolus, taking care that they do not go back beyond the last molar tooth or forward beyond the canine tooth, lest the anteriorSurgical, Medical, and Operative. and posterior palatine vessels, on Avliich the nutrition of the peri- osteal flap depends, be divided (see Fig. 126). The vessels are to be raised and carried with the flap; the mucous membrane of the hard palate and the periosteum form one layer, so that it is impossible to separate them. In very bad cases an attempt may be made to shift bones and all (Fergusson). In some cases where the cleft is ■wide and from end to end, a curved needle can be passed through one side, and then the other, by the aid of Hagadorn's needle- holder, or a doubly curved needle on a handle may be used. In other cases, to avoid the difliculty of passing the thread through the right side (the patient's) from behind forwards, pass a single thread through one side of the cleft and a looi^ through the other, both from before backwards; then pass the single thread into the loop and withdraw the loop, which will thus leave the thread in position (Fig. 140). If desired, a silver suture may also be attached to the silk thread,, which is in turn withdrawn, leaving the silver suture in position. Pass all the sutures before tying any of them, and in tying begin at the highest suture. In tying silk sutures pass one end through a running noose on the other, run it on till the edges are approximated, and then fix by tying a single common knot. The term Uranoplasty is sometimes applied to operations for the cure of fissures in the hard palate; the student must remember that the term has got nothing to do with the urine, or Avith plastic operations on the penis or urethra, as they sometimes seem to think, to the no small amusement of examiners. A narrow, highly-arched palate is one of the efi"ects of inherited sy^jhilis, and a somewhat similar condition is observed in cases of idiocy. For the Soft Palate—(1) Liberating lateral incisions may be simply made with the scissors, through the entire thickness of the velum, in the way recommended by Mr Bryant. (2) Fergusson's plan of dividing the perpendicular part of the levator palati midM'ay between the Eustachian tube and the hamular process, by means of a rectangular knife passed through the cleft in the palate. (3) Pollock's method of dividing both the tensor and the levator by means of a knife passed through the soft palate close to the inner side of tlie hamular process. It may also be necessary to divide the palato-glossus and the palato-pliaryngcus muscles (the anterior and posterior pillars of tlic fauces), which can easily be•58 Applied Anatomy: done by a touch of the knife. The point where the greatest difficulty in approximation is experienced is just -where the soft palate joins the hard. Here the soft palate is attached to the hard by dense autero - posterior bands of fibrous tissue, bet^ween the anterior and posterior mucous surfaces. In order to secure easy approximation it is necessary to divide everything bet^ween the two layers of mucous membrane, or even to divide everything except the mucous membrane in the mouth - aspect of the soft palate, for the most important part of the whole operation is to avoid tension on the stitches. Dr Duncan, after having approxi- mated the two sides, simply feels with his finger for any tense structure anywhere and divides it, until there is an entire absence of tension. In this operation the following Structures, composing the Soft Palate, are divided from before backwards:— 1. Mucous membrane. 2. Submucous tissue, glands, vessels, etc. 3. Palato-glossus muscle. 4. Aponeurosis of the tensor palati. 5. Palato-pharyngeus, anterior fasciculus. 6. Levator palati and azygos uvulse muscles. 7. Palato-pharyngeus, posterior fasciculus. 8. Submi;cous tissue, glands, vessels, etc. 9. Mucous membrane. To assist the memory notice that they run in pairs, the first and ninth, the second and eighth, and so on. Instruments required. — A long-handled weU-woni scalpel, Fergusson's rectangular knife, curved scissors, forceps to grasp the palate while paring it, special needles on handles for passing the sutures, Hagadorn's needle-holder, gag, periosteum elevators, chisel, silk sutures, catgut ligatures, dissecting forceps, silver-wire, sponges on sticks, or special sponge holders, or grasped by Peak's forceps, chloroform, etc. Dermoids of the Palate.—These arise from faulty closure of the cleft between the two sides of the palate. Tliey are of two kinds—Epithelial Pearls and Dermoids proper. (1) The Epithelial Pearls are small bodies, from the size of a millet seed to a pea, that hang do-\vn by short pedicles from the median raphe of tlie59 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. palate, and arc composed of epithelial cells. (2) Dermoids proper also occur liere, and at first sight may be mistaken for an additional tongue, being of the same colour and consistence as that organ. THE TEETH. In connection witli the inter-maxillary and pre-maxillary bones, and the occasional jiresence of three incisor teeth on each side instead of the usual number, in man, it is interesting to observe the presence and disappearance of a similar condition in the lower animals. In the Ungulata, or hoofed quadrupeds, including the Pachydermata {e.g., tapirs), the Solidungula {e.g., the horse, the ass, and the zebra), and the liuminantia {e.g., the ox, the sheep, and antelope), three incisors is the rule. In the typical ruminant, as the ox, we find three in the lower jaw, but none in the upper, only a callous pad of hardened gum against which the lower incisors impinge. In the Carnivora, also, as the lion and tiger, thi'ee incisors is the rule. Approaching the higher group of the animal kingdom, the Quadrumana, we find that the true lemurs, found in Madagascar, and which may be regarded as the lowest order of the group, have usually three incisors, though they may be very much modified, as when met with in man. In the Platyrhine group the dentition is almost the same as in man, only the premolars are more numerous; and in the highest or Catarhine group, Avhich includes the anthropoid apes, the dentition is exactly the same as in man. Eruption of the Teeth in Man.—The milk set are twenty in number, and appear during the following months:— Incisors. Canines. Molars.. 7-9 18 12-24 'I'hi.s only represents a half of one jaw, but the rest are just tlie same, only tlie lower teeth usually appear a little in advance of the upper. The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, and appear during the following years :— Incisors. Canines. IMcnspid.s. Alolars. 7-8 11-12 9-10 G, 12-13, 17-2.5 Or the years may bo arranged tlius':— "'. L i. b. h. c. VI. III. 0 7 8 9 10 11-12 12-13 17-25Applied Anatomy: 60 At six years of age the child possesses the greatest mnnbcr of teeth — viz., forty-eight — twenty deciduous and tAventy - eight permanent. There are a few important clinical and medico-legal points to be noticed in connection with the 'permanent teeth :— 1. In Hereditary Syphilis, the up2ier central permanent incisors are short, narrow, and peg-shaped, widely separated, and slant towards each other; they are " notched " from defective develop- ment of the middle lobe, giving them a screw-driver-like outline. The angles are rounded off, and their sides are convex in outline. In pure syphilitic teeth the enamel is smooth and regular, except at the part where the notch occurs; in the first instance, the place occupied by the notch is filled up by spines, but these wear off and leave the cresentic notch in the biting edge. This condition of the teeth is often accompanied with interstitial keratitis and choroiditis disseminata (Hutchinson). It is probably due to the action of the specific stomatitis upon them while they are yet soft and uncut. 2. In " IVIercurial" Teetll (Hutchinson), the result specially of mercurial stomatitis in childhood, the first molars of both jaws are the test teeth. In this case the deficiency chiefly concerns the enamel, and the exposed dentine is dirty, rugged, and pitted, and in some cases the enamel is cut off at one level all round, leaving a stump of exposed dentine; there is no characteristic notch, as in syphilis. The honeycomb excavations and the horizontal markings in the enamel distinguish them from syphilitic teeth. The first molars suffer most, as they are the first to develop; the origin of the mercurial stomatitis is that the child has jorobably suffered from fits in infancy, and been dosed with calomel. This condition of the teeth is often accompanied with lamellar, or zonular, cataract—a condition that also points to in- fantile convulsions at an earlier ijeriod. It is possible, of course, to find both these conditions of the teeth present in varying proportions: the notched and pegged condition of syphilis, and the pitted, discoloured appearance of mercurial stomatitis. 3. It is very important to remember the dates of eruption of the permanent teeth in the treatment of cases of irregularity or overcrowding; in some cases the teeth, as it were, cannot all find61 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. room, aud the first-comers may take more than their own sliare of space. This irreguhirity is usually among the teeth anterior to the bicuspids, and it may he necessary to remove some of the permanent teeth in order to make room for the others, and it becomes a question of the " survival of the fittest." Eemember that the canines are the most durable, and in this respect, there- fore, the most valuable; but they do not make their appearance till the eleventh or twelfth years, and, therefore, their temporary predecessors should not, if possible, be removed, as they, as it were, keep a place for the permanent ones. Note also that the first molars, the first of the permanent set to appear, are the least durable, and therefore, in this respect, of but little value, and may be sacrificed without any scruples, if necessary. 4. In Extracting Teeth with the forceps, remember two points —(a) That, like the stones of an arch, the fangs of the teeth are broadest on their outer aspect, and (&) that the outer wall of the socket—except in the case of the last molars of the lower jaw—is much thinner and weaker than the inner one; hence, therefore, in using the forceps, the force must be applied in an otUward direction, otherwise much difficvdty will be experienced. 5. In using the ElevatOP, to get rid of roots or stumps, remem- ber that the transverse partitions are less dense in structure and yield more readily than either the outer or the inner walls, and direct the force towards, or against the spongy partitions rather than against the lateral walls. 6. From a medico-legal point of view, the date of eruption of the second molar tooth should be noted in cases of supposed violation of the Factory Acts, as children are often sent to work in factories before the age of thirteen; of course, the presence or absence of the second molar tooth is not conclusive, but, along with other points, it is of considerable value. 7. I^ote, lastly, that bad teeth, or rotten stumps, are a fertile cause of various disorders—(«) They are an exceedingly common cause of neuralgia or headache, {h) they are also the cause of one form of acute ear-ache, (c) they may cause spasmodic closure of the jaws, and (rf) they are a very frc(pient source of enlarged glands in tlie neck.Applied Anatomy: 62 CHAPTER XXX. WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. These, however slight, should be watched very carefully, because of the close anatomical relations that exist between the internal and the external structures of the cranium, and the possibility, therefore, of the effects of the injury implicating the brain and its membranes; and all the more so when we bear in mind that, from the nature of the textures wounded, they are far more likely to be followed by erysipelas and diffuse septic cellulitis than wounds in other parts of the body. Sometimes, too, the external injury may seem very trifling, and yet the internal injury be very great; every case should be carefidly watched for at least a fortnight. In wounds into the scalp there is no gaping of the edges of the wound, but in incisions tltrotujli the scalp there is much gaping, opening up the " dangerous area " and exposing the pericranium at the bottom of the wound. AU cases of head injuries must be kept under observation for at least a fortnight, as inflammatory processes are often not developed for a considerable time after the accident. The chief anatomical peculiarities of the scalp are—(1) The great amount of dense fibrous tissue that enters into its formation. (2) Its great vas- cularity, and, consequently, (3) its great vital activity. (■4) Its vascular connections with the cranial bones and dura mater; this is especially the case with the cellular tissue on its deep surface, whicli is largely permeated by blood-vessels, which enter the bones and communicate in the diploii with branches from the dura mater. At several places, also, large vessels pass directly through from the scalp or face, and communicate with the various sinuses and arteries within the cranium—e.g., at the occiput, the meningeal branches of the occipital artery anastomose with those of theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. G3 vertebral: behind the ear, a large vein passes through the mastoitl foramen to the lateral sinus: on the vertex, another vein passes through the parietal foramen to the superior longitudinal sinus: on the face, at the inner angle of the orbit, the angular artery and vein anastomose with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery and ophthalmic vein, and other branches of the ophthalmic artery anastomose with the middle meningeal. There are other communications through the anterior and posterior condyloid foramina, foramen ovale, foramen lacerum posticum, and most other openings at the base. Leeches may be applied at many of these parts to relieve congestion of the brain. Another important communication exists between the facial vein and the cavernous sinus (besides the one through the orbit) through the pterygoid plexus, a plexus formed by the middle meningeal vein, deep temporals, pterygoids, masseteric, buccal and inferior dental, and which is situated between the external pterygoid and temporal muscles, and partly between the two pterygoids themselves, and is connected on the one hand with the facial vein and on the other with the cavernous sinus through the foramen Vesalii. The Veins of the diploc are four in number—the frontal, which opens into the supra-orbital veinj the anterior temjjoral, which opens into one of the deep temporal veins; the posterior teraporal, which ends in the lateral sinus; and the occipital, which is the largest of the four, and which opens either into the occipital vein or into the occipital sinus. The walls are formed only of epithelium resting upon a little elastic tissue, and have many c«/.s' de sac. These communications between the external vessels and those of the diploc, and also of the latter, with the sinuses of the dura mater, explain the great danger of erysipelas and other inflammatory conditions, such as carbuncle (especially " malignant facial carbuncle"), attacking the face and scalp, and all tlic more so in cases where there is, or has been, an open wound, and probably therefore septic matters have gained an entrance. The inflammation causes thrombosis in some of the venous trunks, usually the facial; these thrombi probably are, or soon become, septic, break down, and give origin to minute septic emboli, which spread widely and give rise to all the signs of pyiemia. Or the inflammation may pass directly backwards along the veins to tlie64 Applied Anatomy: cerebral sinuses. Malignant facial carbuncle usually commences in the lip, and has a special tendency to attack young adults. The facial vein is specially liable to be affected in simple septic or specific infective inflammations, as carbuncle, cancruni oris, and malignant pustule, and lead to serious or fatal results. The walls of this vein do not collapse so readily as those of most superficial veins; it is destitute of valves, and communicates with the cerebral sinuses on the one hand, and the internal jugular vein on the other, and thus every facility is afforded for the absorption and diffusion of septic products. A blow with a blunt weapon, at right angles to the bone, may produce a wound with apparently clean-cut edges, just like Fig. 141. The Scalp. 1. The Skin. 4. Layer of loose Cellular Tissue 2. Superficial Fascia, \vitli Vessels —" dangerous area." and Nerves. 5. Pericranium. 6. Tlie Bone. 3. Tendon of Occipito-frontalis. 7. Dura mater. 8. Brain. an ordinary incised wound ; the difference is, that Avith the blunt instrument, hair-bulbs are found projecting from the surface, and the wound wiU not heal by the first intention, as slight sloughing Avill be produced; Avhereas, with a sharp instrument the hair- bulbs are cut across, and with a magnifying-glass the edges are seen to be perfectly clean-cut, and the wound will jjrobably heal by the first intention. Between the grey matter on the surface of the brain and the outside, the following Structures intervene (Fig. 141):—1. The Scalp, consisting of—(a) The skin; (/>) the superficial fascia, with fatty tissue and the arteries and nerves of,the scalp; (c) theSuro/ctr/, Medical, and Operative. 65 ccutral tendon of the occipito-fron talis. The sul)cutancous tissue consists of fibrous bauds, for the most part directed ocrticalhj, being firmly fixed to the skin above and the fascia below; the liorizontal mesh work is very scanty; between the fibrous bands are lobules of dense fat. It will be seen, therefore, that it is just the reverse of the usual forms of subcutaneous tissue, where the vertical fibres are very scanty. The palm of the hand and the sole of the foot resemble the scalp in texture, and in all three places it is impossible to pinch up the skin between the finger and thumb. Then follows [d) a layer of loose cellular tissue, over which the above three layers, which arc really one, can be moved freely; this is often called the " dangerous area" of the scalp, from the ease with which suppurative processes arc set up in Avounds extending to this layer, and which then sjiread in all directions. Were it not for the presence of this layer, too, the time-honoured Indian custom of " scalping" could not be per- formed ; but all that is necessary is simply to make a circular incision at the proper place down to this layer, and then a sharp tug the included portion separates. 2. The Bone.—This may be regarded as consisting of—(a) The pericranial aponeurosis, Avhich is firmly attached to the " sutural ligaments" at the various sutures; (Ij) outer table of the skull; (c) the diploe, with its large venous trunks; and {d) the inner taljle, characterised by its great brittleness {lamina vitrea), and hence it may be fractured without any fracture of the external table, and is usually more extensively broken than the external—e.g., in punctured fracture 3 it is also tliinner than tlie outer table. 3. The Brain, including—(a) The dura mater; (h) the subdural space (the so-called " avaclinoid ravity"); (r) the curtain-like arachnoid; {d) the subarachnoid ^pace, containing the cercbro-spinal fluid, upon which the brain lloats, as upon a water bed, especially in the middle and posterior fossffi, but in the anterior fossa the brain rests directly on the bone; {tt) the pia mater; and (/) the brain substance proper. Attachment of the Pericranial Aponeurosis and Occipito- Frontalis.—It is firmiy attached to the fat and fascia superficial to it, Init only rery loosely connected with tlie parts beneath by means of fine cellular tissue. Posteriorly, it is attaclied to the superior curved lines of the occipital bone; at the sides, to the6G Applied Anatomy: mastoid process, attoUcns and attraheiis aurem muscles, and zygoma; in front, it is blended with the corrugator supercilii, orbicularis palpebrarum, and the pyraniidalis nasi. The two bellies of the occijjito-frontaUs arise in front and behind at the points indicated, and both are inserted into the broad tendinous aponeurosis which extends over the top of the head. The connection of the anterior belly witli the muscles round the orbit is taken advantage of in Pagenstecher's operation for ptosis; subcutaneous ligatures, one or more, are inserted from above the eyebrow to the ciliarj^ edge of the upper lid; this acts like a seton, and forms a band of subcutaneous cicatricial tissue by which the upper lid is rendered movable by means of the occipito-frontalis. In Bruises of the scalp, extravasation may take place either into or under the aponeurosis, or thirdly, under the pericranium; these swellings are known as cepliallicematomata. In siippuration beneath it, the pus gravitates to the most dejjendent parts, mitil arrested by its attachments; and, according to its position, may form a bag bulging over the orbits, the root of the nose, or above the zygoma, or passing down towards the neck behind : fluid blood would also behave in a similar manner. Sometimes it spreads over the whole extent of the head, and yet the scalp does not die because it carries its blood supply with it. (1) Extravasation into the scalp may simulate a depressed fracture. Owing to the density of the scalp texture, the extravasation is limited, and forms a circumscribed flattened swelling; the edges feel extremely hard from the coagulation of the blood in the interstitial textures of the scalp, while the centre, where the blood is not yet coagulated, is soft, and gives rise to the supposition that there is a depressed fracture. Further, inflammatory lymph is effused round the edge of the blood clot, and this, with the coagulated blood and granulation tissue, form the hard rim. By firm, downward pressure, however, the unbroken cranial bone may be detected beneath; and besides, the hard edge is not incompressible, sharp, and irregular, but rounded, and to a certain extent is compressible, and should be movable over the bone beneath. Further, the firm edge rises gradually, and is itself raised above the level of the bone outside it. In depressed fracture the hard edge is not raised above the bone beyond it, nor can it in the least be indented by the fiugcrStirgiccil, Medical, and Operative. 67 nail. (2) The blood may be ell'used under the occipito-frontalis, and may be either diffuse or circumscribed; as a rule it is diffTise, giving a crackling sensation to the finger, and easily moved from place to place. (3) The blood may be effused under the pericranium; this form is most frequently met with in children at birth, and is caused by the pressure of the pelvic bones or by the use of the forceps, and is usually seen over one of the parietal bones. It is firmly fixed to the bone, and is limited by the " sutural ligaments " to the bono over which it commenced; and, further, the scalp should be movable over it. This must also be distinguished from a depressed fracture by the rules already laid down. Abscesses also may form in the same three positions, and follow the same laws. In making incisions into the scalp in cases of septic cellulitis, in the dangerous area, the position of the various vessels must be kept in mind and carefully avoided: the vessels are — (1) The supra-orbitalj (2) the temporal, with its anterior and posterior divisions; (3) the posterior auricular; and (4) the occipital. The ordinary caput succedaneum, formed by tlie effusion of liquor sanguinis from the over-full vessels, is found between the occipital frontalis and the pericranium, in the loose cellular tissue. The pericranium stands in the place of periosteum to the bones of the skull; but even though it is removed over a considerable area the bone is not so likely to die as when an ordinary bone is stripped of its periosteum, since its nourishment is principally derived from the diploiJ and dura mater. Further, in cases of necrosis of the bones, it is doubtful whether the ^pericranium ever forms new bone, and in this way also it differs from the periosteum of other bones. The dura mater acts as periosteum on the other side; it is very firmly attached to the base of the skull, but much less firmly to the vault, and hence it is readily separated in this position by a blow or blood extravasation. Tlie bone is principally nourished by the dura mater (endosteum), and therefore difl'ers in this third respect from an ordinary bone, which is chiefly nourished by the periosteum. Necrosis of the skull is very oftru sypliililic beginning usually as gummatous periostitis: this is specially common about the forehead—corona veneris, or the " mark of the beast," as it is called. Necrosis of the outer table is more common68 Applied Anatomy: than the inner, hecause it is more exposed to injury, and its bloud supply is less. Meningeal Arteries.—(1) In the anterior fossa of the skull we have small branches from the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries. (2) In the middle fossa we have —(a) The middle meningeal entering through the foramen spinosum; (Z/) the small meningeal entering through the foramen ovale; (c) the meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal entering through the fora- men lacerum medius. (3) In the posterior fossa we have small branches from the occipital and vertebral arteries. The largest and most important of these is the middle meningeal. It is liable to be ruptured by blows on the temple, producing fracture of the parietal or temporal bones, or great wijig of the sphenoid—more especially in the case of the parietal and sphenoid, as it enters the skull through the foramen in the spmous process of the sphenoid, and frequently traverses for a short distance a bony canal in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and here it is very apt to be ruptured. But the various sinuses, especially the lateral, at the base of the cranium are also liable to be ruptured—e.g., liEemorrhage into the orbit and ej'^elid points to rupture of a cavernous sinus; bleeding from the ear, followed by the discharge of a clear fluid, may be due to fracture of the petrous part of the temporal bone, with laceration of some of the sinuses in that neighbourhood (inferior or superior petrosals and lateral). The position of the middle meningeal artery—about an inch and a quarter behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, and about the same distance above the zygoma—as well as the structures cut through to reach it, have been already given. (See "Ligature of the Middle Meningeal, vol. i., page 104.) THE BRAIN. Its Blood Supply (Fig. 142).—The Oivde uf WiNi.-< is formed by the union of the internal carotids and vertebral arteries. The vertebrals join at the upper part of the meduUa to form the basilar artery, and this again soon divides into the posterior cerebral arteries, from which the posterior communicating pass to join the internal carotids. The internal carotids divide into tlic anterior and middle cerebrals; the anterior are united by the anterior communicating,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. cn tlius completing Iho circle. From this circle two sets of vessels arise—the ha^al and cortical systems. The Basal supply the basal ganglia and interior of the brain, do not anastomose freely witli each other, and have no commnnication with the cortical system; they come oft' as six groups from various parts of the circle, and enter the brain directly at the various perforated sjiots. Among Fig. 142. Circle of Willis. the groups arising from the loft middle cerebral is one called l)y CiuncoT the " artery of cerebral hii^morrhage." It is larger tlian the rest, and enters the substance of the caudate nucleus by cross- ing the upper part of the posterior division of the internal capsule, and is the vessel usually nipturcd in apoplexy ; it is sometimes misnamed the " lenticular artery," or tlie " lenticulo-striate" branch.Applied Anatomy: 70 The Cortical supply consists of the terminal branches of the cere- bral arteries, which divide into a very fine plexns in tlie pia mater, and then enter the grey matter as long capillaries, each supplying a special area. It will be seen, therefore, that the cerebral arteries are " terminal," and when plugged an " infarct " is produced, just as in the kidney and spleen. Fig. 143. Cerebral Emboli. Extenial Carotid. Right Convnion Carotid- Bight Subclavian Innominate Internal Carotid Left Subclavian. Arch of Aorta. The arrow.s indicate how an Embolus more readily passes uji the left Common and Internal Carotids to the Brain. The anterior Cerebral supplies—of the interior, the frontal lobe and most of the caudate nucleus ; of the convohdinm, the first and second and the upper part of the ascending frontal. The middle Cerebral supplies—of the interior, the lenticular nucleus and the rest of the caudate, optic thalamus, internal capsule, and island of Reil ; of the convolutions, the third frontal, the lower part of the ascending frontal, the ascending parietal, the superior parietal, the .supra-marginal and angular gyri, and the first temporo-sphenoidalSiirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 71 convolution. It will be seen, therefore, that this vessel supplies the most important parts, both inside and on the surface of the brain, including the motor areas, and other parts concerned in apoplexy. The posterior cerebral supplies the parts not included in the above list. Emboli usually pass to the left side of the brain, except in those cases -where the clot comes from a right carotid aneurism, Fig. 144, The Internal Capsule. Aliddle Line. Nucleus Caudatus. Internal Capsule (anterior part). Genu. Optic Thalamus. .Intenial Capsule (posterior part). This has been explained by the fact that the left common and internal carotids are almost in a direct line with the first part of the arch of the aorta, and are thus in the direct main stream, and hence the embolus is washed into this vessel rather than the other large branches of the arch (Fig. 143). The arteries of the brain readily burst from disease, because they have no sheath, and the outer coat is thin; in other arteries (except the fir.4; part of the aorta), the sheath and outer coat adhere and resist rupture.72 Applied Anatomy: The brain is protected from the results of external violence in many ways—(1) The density and mobility of the scalp; (2) the arch-like arrangement of the bones, their nnmerous segments, with the interposed sutural ligaments, and the elasticity of the bones themselves; (3) the mobility of the head upon the spine; and (4) the water pillow on which the brain rests. The Internal Capsule (Fig. 144) is a narrow band of white matter close to the base of the brain, immediately above the crura. It is formed by the fibres of the corona radiata, coming from or going to the grey matter of the cortex; the fibres are collected into a compact baud which has a very intimate relation with the basal ganglia. It consists of a posterior part, an anterior part, and a genu. The posterior part lies between the optic thalamus and the lenticular nucleus ; its posterior third is sensory, its anterior two thirds motor and trophic. The anterior part lies between the nucleus lenticularis and the nucleus caudatus; its function is probably concerned with the psychological functions of the brain. The genu coimects the two parts of the capsule. THE CEREBRO - SPINAL FLUID. Its Uses.—It is—(1) Protective, protecting the brain and cord from the effects of violence. (2) It obviates the ill effects of changes in the cerebral circulation, the fluid being displaced when the blood- vessels are over-filled, and returning again M'hen the circulation has resumed its proper equilibrium. In this way the tension is kept equal throughout, for whenever the tension is unduly increased or diminished the effect is the same—viz., convulsions. This is well seen in cases of spina bifida, for when the tumour is pressed upon convulsive phenomena are produced, and in cases where the fluid is drained off either accidentally, by the bursting of the sac, or intentionally, the child dies in convulsions. (3) It has ijrobably a nutritive function. It is found within and around all parts of the cerebro-spinal system, and can readily pass in every direction ; thus it fills the subarachnoid space of both brain and cord, and from thence it can pass into the central cavity of the cord and into all the ventricles of the brain, except the fifth. The point of communication is the foramen of Magendie., an opening in the pia mater that closes in the roof of the fourth ventricle; the fluidSurgical, Medical, and Operative. thus gains the fourth ventricle, and from thciico, it passes (a) into tlie central canal of the sjainal cord through an opening at the point of the calamus scriptorins, (h) along the aqueduct of Sylvius (iter a tertio ad qnartum venirieulum, or simply the "iter"), into the third ventricle, and from thence to the lateral ventricles by means of the foramen of Manro. The central canal of the cord, and all the ventricles, except the fifth, are the permanent remains of the ectodermal canal, around which the spinal cord is developed. Hydrocephalus.—One form of hydrocephalus is believed to be due to the closure of the foramen of Macjendie, leading to an ex- cessive accumulation of fluid in the ventricles (Hilton) and their consequent expansion. In tapping the ventricles for this condition (jiaraeentesis cajntisJ, the needle is entered either through the coronal suture, or some part of the anterior fontanelle, far enough from the middle line to avoid the superior longitudinal sinus. THE SUTURES. The Lambda, or point of junction of the lambdoid and sagittal sutures, is between two and three inches above the external occipital protuberance; the Bregma, is the point of junction of the coronal and saggital sutures. In infants, these points indicate the positions of the anterior and posterior fontanelles. The anterior is the larger, and is diamond-shaped, having four sides; it should be closed by the second or third year, but remains open much longer in rickets. The posterior is small and triangular, and usually closes soon after birth. The Sagittal Suture is found in the middle line stretching between the lambda and the bregma. The position of the bregma is shown by a line drawn vertically upwards from the external auditory meatus to the vertex, when the head is in the ordinary position. The Lambdoid Suture is indicated by the upper two thirds of a line drawn from the lambda to tlie apex of the mastoid process. The Coronal Suture is indicated by a line drawn from the bregma to the point wliere the zygoma joins the malar bone. The Pterion is the point where the frontal, parietal, squamous portion of the temporal bone, and the great wing of the si)henoid meet; it is situated an inch and a quarter beliind the external angidar process of the frontal bone, and the same distance above tlie zygoma. Tlie Glabella is i\w depression atApplied Anatoviy: 7i the root of the nose, between the nasal eminences. Tlie Inion corresponds to the external occipital protuberance. The sutures are first obliterated at the part in which the ossifi- cation of the skull was last completed—i.e., in the neighbourhood of the fontanelles and the sagittal suture, and last in the squamous; tlie obliteration begins on the inner surface of the bones, between forty and fifty years of age; this union between the bones of the skull is known as synostosis. A knowledge of this will be of some vise in judging the age of a skeleton. Fractures of the skull may be divided into those of the vault and those of the base. Fractures of the Vault are usualty caused by direct violence. They may be divided into— The inner table is usually more splintered than the external; many reasons are advanced to explain this—(1) The inner table is thin and brittle (lamina viirea); (2) the force is more diffused by the time it reaches the inner table; (3) the bone bends as a whole, and this tends to make the force more diffuse; and (4) there is nothing firm beneath the inner table, and hence the greater splintering, as in driving a nail through a board when there is nothing solid below to oppose the blow. The outer table woidd be affected in a similar manner were it so placed in regard to the force, as the table furthest from the violence splinters most. In examining the state- of the bone, in open wounds of the head, always use a finger as the probe. A fissured fracture must be distinguished from svitures or abnormal fissures, as the " parietal fissure," and from the edge of the torn pericranium. A fissured fracture appears as a bleeding, more or less straight, red line, Avliich grates under the finger-nail. A suture is not a red, bleeding line, and is not straight, but very zig-zag and serrated. The edge of the pericranium is smooth, does not grate under the finger-nail, and shows a slight yielding to pressure. A blunt instrument causes a " gutter " fracture; a round one, like a hammer, a "saucer" or "pond" fracture. FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 1. Fissured... 2. Depressed 3. Pmictin-ed Always compound.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 75. Ill the young, tlic condition known as Craniotabes must not be mistaken for a depressed fracture; it is caused by hereditary syphilis or rickets, and usually aflects the occipital and parietal bones. The bones are thinned in patches, so that they readily yield under the finger. A Contusion of the bones of the head may produce a variety of lesions—(1) It may cause concussion; (2) internal haemorrhage, active or passive; (3) suppuration between the bone and the dura mater; and (4-) cario-necrosis of the injured bone, "with its risks, chronic hypertrophy, ostitis, causing thickening of the bone and nodulation on its internal surface, giving rise to epileptic or even maniacal attacks. Occasionally the sujaerior longitudinal sinus may be wounded by jiieces of depressed bone being driven into it, and when the bone is removed it is apt to be followed by profuse venous haemorrhage. To treat this condition a compress of boracic lint should be applied, and held in position Ijy a bandage, for forty- eight hours or so; this will usually permanently arrest the bleeding. An occasional result of simple fracture of the vault is a traumatic Cephalhydrocele. This is a tumour formed by an accumulation of cerebro-spinal fluid beneath the scalp. The fluid in this case is believed by Clement Lucas to come from the lateral ventricles, owing to laceration of the brain substance, rather than the sub- arachnoid space. Fractures of the Base.—These are more serious, because they ai'c nearer the vital ganglia and are nearly always compound, and hence the great risk of septic meningitis; for example, the fracture is compound when it passes through the membrana tympani ov mucous membrane of the pharynx, the sphenoidal sinuses, and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, into the nose. They are usually caused by Indirect violence, as—(1) A blow by a large, soft, heavy body, or a fall on the top of the head, and then a fracture is apt to extend from the part struck through the peti'ous portion of the temporal bono. (2) Sometimes by a fall on the feet or buttocks by the impact of the spine against the condyles of the occipital bone. (3) By direct violence, as a knife nr umbrella driven into the orbit or nose, or a pistol-shot inApplied Anatomy: 7G the mouth; in the latter case, tlie hall will also prohahly frac- ture the vault froni within outwards. (4) Genuine contre coiqi, where the skull is struck, say on the vertex or sides, fracturing the base, and yet there is no fissure radiating from the point struck. A blow about the root of tlie nose may fracture the cribrifoi'm plate of the ethmoid or the orbital plate of the frontal, and a fall on the chin may force the condyle of the jaw through the middle fossa of the skull (Chassaignac), or fracture the petrous portion of the temporal (Hutchinson). The general signs of fracture of the base are—(1) Long-continued haemorrhage, (2) escape of the cranial contents, and (3) injury to the cranial nerves. In cases where a severe blow is struck on the head without causing depression of the bone, the effects of contre coup are well shown. This is due to the propulsion of the brain against the bone at the opposite point, and contusion of the brain substance is greater at this point than just beneath the fracture, though it is contused at both places. Hence, in these cases, the paralysis is always greatest on the side of the injury—i.e., the side opposite to the contusion caused by contre coup (Hutchinson). In the Anterior Fossa there is extravasation of blood into the orbit, and under the conjunctiva and skin of the lid, or possibly bleeding from the nose, sometimes followed by the escajje of cerebro-spinal fluid; the blood may come from the meningeal vessels or from the mucous membrane of the nose. In this case the Structures severed are — (1) The arachnoid, (2) the dura mater, (3) the cribriform plate, and (4) the mucous membrane of the nose. Should the patient be lying on his back, the blood from the nose may trickle back into the pharynx and be swallowed and afterwards vomited, giving rise to a suspicion of internal uijury. When the blood passes under the conjunctiva, it shows that the periosteum lining the roof of the orbital cavity is torn; as, were it not so, then the blood would only pass into the skin of the lid. In a case of this kind, therefore, the following parts are ruptured —(1) The arachnoid, (2) the dura mater, (3) the bone, (4) the periosteum of the orbit. The first and second pairs of cranial nerves may also be damaged; a common condition is effusion of blood into the sheath of the optic nerve, causing blindness, which gradually passes off as tlie blood is absorbed. When the77 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. luuniorrhage is beneath the conjunctiva it is of a fan-sliaped form, increasing in extent as we pass backwards, and the blood retains its scarlet colour, as the oxygen readily reaches it through that membrane ; in these respects it diil'ers from a black eye, for in this condition there is bruising of the superficial textures, and the hicmorrhage is chiefly in the skin; whereas, in fracture of the skull, the elfusion is into the loose suhcutaneous cellular tissue, and the escaped blood is seen through the undamaged skin. In the Middle Fossa, the most characteristic sign is bleeding from the ear, followed by the discharge of a watery fluid, as the fracture is usually through the petrous portion of the temiDoral bone, involving the internal auditory meatus; further, tlie tympanic membrane is ruptured, as well as the sheath of arachnoid sur- rounding the facial and auditory nerves in the internal auditory meatus. The Tissues involved are—■(!) The petrous part of the temporal bone, the fracture involving the internal auditory meatus with the internal and middle ear; (2) the arachnoid; (3) the muc- ous membrane of the tympanum; and (4) the mcmbrana tympani. If the tympanic membrane is not torn, the blood will pass down the Eustachian tube into the pharynx and probably be swallowed; there will also be more or less deafness. So also in cases of fracture through the basi-spheuoid, the blood is swallowed; take care there- fore lest vomiting of this swallowed blood mislead the diagnosis. The fluid has the characters of cerebro-spinal fluid—very watery and limpid, and therefore of low specific gravity, containing much chloride of sodium, a trace of albumen, the faintest trace of sugar, and is not coagulated by heat or nitric acid. Other possible sources of this fluid have been suggested—a secretion from the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity, serum from a blood clot, but if so it ought to contain much albumen, the liquor Cotunnii (periliimpli), or the liquor Scarpa' (endolijmxjli). In fracture of this fossa the facial nerve is often implicated, causing facial palsy; other nerves in tliis region may also suffer—as the auditory, when there will be deafness on that side to the tuning fork applied to the bones of the head. In fracture ^)^ the Posterior Fossa the signs are very obscure. There may be deep-seated extravasation of blood, producing a ycllowisli discoloration of ilie skin some days idler the accident.78 Applied Anatomy: There Avill also probably be some teudemess, piiJiiness, or extra- vasation about the mastoid process. Motor Areas.—The motor areas are situated immediately in front of and behind the Fissure of Rolando. Thi.s fissure separates the frontal from the parietal lobe (Pig. 145), and niiis up not quite parallel with the coronal suture, being from one and a half to two inches behind it at the vertex, but only a little more than an inch at its lower end. According to Thane, the upper end of the fissure of Eolando is placed half an inch bcliind a jjoint mid-\vay between the root of the nose and the external occipital protuberance; its lower end, for all practical purposes, is situated about two and a quarter inches behind the external angular process of the frontal boire. The fissure passes dowuAvards and for^^•ards for about three inches and three - quarters, and, according to Professor Haee, at an angle of sixty-seven degrees to the sagittal suture. On the left side, at the lower and anterior part is Buoca's Fig. 145. Fissure of Rolando and Motor Areas. ^—^^1:^'%-—- B. Broca's Coiivohitious. F. Face Ccutn-. A. Arm Centre. L. Leg Centre.Surgical, Medical, ami Operative. 79 convolution (centro for speech), and whicli may be indicated on the surface by a point two inches behind, and about one incli above the level of the external angular process; close to this are found Fig. 146. t)R Reid's Method. A. Position of tlic Pii.s in a ca.sc of J[r Barker's. B. Reid's "]5asc Line." C. Position of the Pus in a ease of Mr Caird's. E. External Angular Process. P. Parieto-occipital Fissure. I!. Fissure of llolando. S. Sylvian Fissure. X. The most prominent part of the Parietal Eminenee. * Point to Trepliine for a Cerebellar Abscess. h. Posterior Boundary of tlie Tenipoi o-sphcnoidal Lobe. the centres for the tongue and lips. Higher up is the face centro, then the centres for the upper limb, and last and highest of all are found the centres for the lower liinli. So therefore, not only arcApplied Anatomy. 80 the centres for the two sides of the body reversed, those for the loft half of the body being on the right side of the brain, but they arc turned upside down as well. In cases demanding the trephine it is, of course, to be done on the side opposite to that on whicli the greatest paralysis exists. Dp Reid's Method forfinding the Fissure of Rolando (Fig. 14G). —First draw a "base line" from the lower border of the orbit, through the external auditory meatus, to the occiput. ]Srext draw a line from the depression in front of the ear, or the tubercle of the zygoma, to the toj) of the head, and at right angles to the "base line," and another similar line through the posterior border of the mastoid process; this second line rouglily indicates the posterior part of the hrst temporo-sphenoidal convolution, the others pass still further back. A line is now drawn from the ui)per end of the posterior line downwards and forwards to the point Avhere the anterior line cuts the Sylvian fissure. As nearly as I can make out, the posterior of the two vertical lines—corresponding to the " posterior border of the mastoid process "—is about an inch and a quarter behind the external auditory meatus. Lucas-Championniere's Plan.—Find the bregma by carrying a line from one external auditory meatus to the other straight across the vertex: the wpper and of the fissure of Eolando is 55 mm. behind this; its loioer end is 7 cm. behind the external angular process, and 3 cm. above it. JSToTE.—25 mm. = one inch, and 5 cm. = two inches, or 50 mm. The Fissure of Sylvius.—^As far as surface-marking is concerned this fissure begins at the jpterion—a jDoint about an inch and a (]^uarter behind the external angular process, and the same distance above the zygoma—runs obliquely backwards and upwards through the parietal bone to a little beyond, and three-quarters of an inch below, the parietal eminence, ending in the immediate neighbour hood of the supra-marginal and angular gyri. Tliis is the so-called horizontal limb of the fissure, and it separates the frontal and parietal lobes from the temporo-sphenoidal. The ascending limb of the same fissure begins two inches behind the external angular process, runs upwards obliquely towards the vertex, separating the superior, middle, and the inferior frontal convolutions from the81 S/ii'^ica/, Medical, and Operative. ascoudiiig frontal; this limb ia almost parallel witli tlic lissurc of Eolaudo, and is usually known as'tlie pre-central sulcm. The intra-pavietal jiasure is situated between the ascending parietal convolution and the angular gyrus. The Parieto-Occipital Fissure is from a half to three-quarters of an inch in front of the lambda; it partly se^jaratcs the imrietal from the occipital lobe. The Lobes of the Brain.—The frontal lobe is placed in front of the fissure of Eolando, and below is bounded by the anterior end of the fissure of Syr.vius; the parietal lobe is boirnded in front by the fissure of Eolaxuo, behind by the parieto-occipital fissure, Fig. 147. Lobes of the Brain. r'issui'u ul' Roliiiidu. and Ijclow l>y tlic fi.ssure of Sylvius. Behind this point is placed the occipital lobe, while below the fissure of Sylviu8 lies the temporo-sphenoidal lobe; and deep in the li.ssure of Sylviuh, hidilen by tlie oi)er(ndum, is the island of Reil. Tliat ])art of the brain in fmnt of the motor areas is believed to be the p.sycho- logical region, and is therefore beyond the reach of experimental research. The part behind the motor areas is, in a general way, the .sensory region. The sight centre is situated in the iimjnlar (/!/>'>'■" (Fkuiueh), or the contiguous occipital lobe (JMunk); the auditory centre is iu the superior lemporo-.sphenoidal convolution;82 Applied Anatomy: smell iu the middle temporo-splieiioidal, and taste in the inferior temporo-sphenoidal (Fig. 147). The centres for the trunk muscles are placed on the mesial surface of the marginal gyrus, the anterior part heing for the neck muscles, the middle for the shoulders, and the posterior part for the muscles helow this. The centre for touch is said to be placed in the posterior part of the mesial surface of the gyrus fornicatus. The anterior convolutions of the brain are the most tolerant of severe mechanical injury; they seem to be able to bear the greatest amount of injury -without being followed by any bad result. Teaspoonfuls of brain matter have been squeezed out in fractures of this region, pieces of iron driven in for inches, or even driven right through from side to side, and yet the patient recover with- out a single bad symptom, and with absolutely no change in his mental faculties. Extravasation of Blood within tjie Cranium may take place— (1) Within the brain itself, from the bursting of a vessel, or from laceration of the brain substance; (2) in the meshes of the pia mater on the surface of the brain; (3) iu the subarachnoid sjjace, where it spreads widely over the surface usually, but it may also remain circumscribed. In the above situations the blood is derived from the vessels of the pia mater or of the brain itself. (4) Between the skull and the dura mater, from wound of a meningeal artery— usually the middle; and sometimes from a sinus—usually the lateral. When the middle meningeal is the source of the bleeding, the clot extends deeply down to the base of the skull, as the blow that ruptured the artery possibly also separated the dura mater from tlie bone. In this way the effused blood may press on the cavernous sinus, leading to fulness of the vessels of the eye, protrusion of one eyeball, wide dilatation of the pupil, and probably paralysis of some of the ocular nerves; this occurs on the same side as the extravasation, and there may also be hemiplegia of the opiJOsite side, but the widely dilated and insensible pupil is on the same side as the injury (Hutchinson). MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN. In examining any swelling on the head to ascertain whether it communicates with the cavity of the cranium, fuid out the83 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. f'ollowiug points:—(1) Is '\i fixed to the bond (2) Is there an opening in the bone % (3) Is it reducible, wholly or in part % (4) Does it pulsate % (5) Are there any cerebral complications on gentle pressure, or otherwise, such as convulsions or paralysis'? (6) Does its tension and size increase when the child cries, or during strong expiratory efforts. The most important malformations of the brain visible externally are— 1. Meningocele, where the protrusion consists of a part of the membranes filled with cerebro-spinal lluid. It is, as a rule, of small size, globular, pedunculated or sessile, fluctuating, and translucent; its tension is increased by strong expiration, and it may be entirely reduced. It is often associated with hydrocephalus. 2. Encephalocele, where the protrusion consists of brain as well as membranes. It does not fluctuate, and is opaque, but pulsates along with the rest of the brain, and may be partly reducible. 3. Hydrencephalocele, where the protruded brain is distended by an accumulation of fluid within the ventricles; it is very often large, fluctuates, and may sometimes pulsate. These malformations are believed to be due to intra-uterine hydrocephalus, and not merely to want of development of the bones of the skull. The tumours are soft, rounded, bluish in colour, and covered by thin skin, increase in size Avhen the child cries, and have been mistaken for ntevi. Several interesting cases are recorded by Mr Hutchinson, in his " Illustrations of Clinical Surgery." They are usually found in the middle line, and most frcf[uently at the back of the head, through an o^iening in the occipital bone, at the junction of the four centres from Avhich the supra - occii)ital portion is developed; the lower extremities are often ill - developed, and talipes calcaneus is sometimes present. It is also seen at the root of the nose, between the two halves of the frontal bone, from defective ossification of the frontal, nasal, and ethmoid bones: at the anterior and posterior fontanelles, and occasionally at the sides of the skull. When at the anterior part of the skull, they always communicate with the lateral ventricles; those at the sides with tlie third or lateral, and tliose in the occipital region with the fourth. In tlie occipital region—tlic usual situation—the cavity in the tumour is but a part of the84 Applied Anatomy: fourth ventrical, and is lined by a tliiu membrane covered by nucleated epithelium, partly ciliated—the ventricular ependyma. The cerebellum in such cases is either rudimentary or absent; when any part is present it is the fluccidm or mhpediincidar lohc, also called the j^n-cuiiiogastric lobule, from being situated behind the pneumogastric nerve. It is also sometimes found at the inner angle of the eye, a little to one or other side, and not exactly central; in this position it is very much more likely to be mistaken for a nsevus. It has also been seen in the nose and mistaken for polypus. It may even project through the basi-sphenoid into the pharynx. The diagnosis depends iipon the follovriug points:—(1) That they are congenital and at the seat of some membranous part of the foetal skull; (2) that they fluctuate, as they are liquid in nature; (.3) that they increase in volume when the child cries; (4) that they are partly or wholly reducible; and (5) that they partake of llic movements of the brain, pulsate, etc. Such swellings must be distinguished from— 1. Wens, Avhich are usually multiple and arc fixed to the .skin, but may be freely moved over the deeper structure.s, arc not re- ducible, may not fluctuate, and the bone is unaltered below. 2. Dermoid Cysts, which difl"er from wcn.s, in that they arc under the occipito-frontalis, and fixed to the deeper structures (per/cranium), and there is usually a depression in the bone around its base ; the skin can be freely moved over the dermoid cyst. It would be impossible to distinguish between a dermoid cyst and a meningocele, the pedicle of which had become occluded, without using a hypodermic syringe. 3. A Fatty Tumour lies in the subcutaneous tissue, is freely movable over the deeper structures, and is not fixed to the skin, except by fragile tags of fibrous tissue; there is also the possible lobulation, and the Avay in whicli the rounded edge slips from under the finger, whicli is quite characteristic. 4. A Subcutaneous Nsevus is reducible on gentle in-essure, without cerebral symptoms, and A\'hen reduced the bone can be felt entire beneath it. In cases where it is situated in the tissues over a fontanclle, it is much more difficult to be quite sure of one's diagnosis. In cases of grave doubt one must use a hyimdcrmic syringe, when, ifSurgica/, UTedical, and Operntivc. 85 Meuingocclo — Clear cerebro-spinal (luid. Na'viis = Pure blood. Dermoid Cyst = Nothing, as the eontciits are too lliirk to pass tlirougli the needle. I have said nothing about the histories of the difl'erent cases, as the student shonld always try to arrive at a definite diagnosis from physical examination alone. A meningocele, of course, is alw ays congenital; and a na^vus, if not congenital, usually begins about a couple of M'eeks after birth. Whenever, therefore, there is a s'mrjle tumour on any part of the head, but especially in the middle line, exercise great caution in diagnosis and treatment. Dermoids of the Scalp. — Dermoids of the scalp are often attached to the dura mater. INIr Sutton explains this by stating that early in embryonic life the dura mater and the skin are in contact, and that the skull-bones are developed between these two layers at a later period, and should be looked upon, therefore, as secondary cranial elements. The usual situations for cranial dermoids are the anterior fontanelle, the root of the nose, and the external occipital protuberance, and they are apt to be confounded with sebaceous cysts, or with meningoceles. When over the anterior fontanelle, the tumour is exactly like a meningocele, rising and falling with regular pulsation, and apparently filling out when the child cries or coughs. The Head in Ricl<ets. — In this condition—(1) The anterior fontanelle remains open for a long time—to tlie third or fourth year; (2) the l)ones are thickened, especially near the sutures ; (3) the antero-posterior diameter is long; (4) the forehead is high, square, and projecting; (5) the bones of the face are ill-developed, hence the face is often small, while the head is large; and (G) the tocth are developed late, and are apt to fall out. In Congenital Syphilis, periosteal deposits of new bone are often found upon the four processes that bound the anterior fontanelle. Such deposits are known as Parrot's nodes, or Osteophytes, and they give to the anterior part of the skull a peculiar natiforni appearance. The new bone, is at first veiy spongy and vascular, but by-and-by becomes more compact. Tlieso osteophytes usually develop between tlie sixth and twelfth months. Sometimes also we find atrophic patclies—Craniotabes.Applied Anatomy: 8G TREPHINING. This operation should not be performed over the course of the sinuses, nor in situations likely to wound the middle meningeal artery. A line drawn over the head, from the root of the nose to the occijDital protuberance, indicates the course of the superior longitudinal sinus; and the posterior two thirds of another line, drawn from the same protuberance to the external auditory meatus, indicates the course of the horizontal portion of the lateral sinus ; and about the middle of this line the pulsations of the occipital artery may be felt (Holden). The position of the middle meningeal artery must also be avoided, unless trephining in this situation be indicated for special reasons (see vol. i., page 103). Fig. 148. Hey's Saw. Properly speaking, " trephining " should only be applied to cases where a complete circle of bone is removed from the skull by the trephine, though it is usual to speak of elevating depressed fragments, removing small angles of bone with Hey's saAV (Fig. 148), etc., as " trephining." " Trepanning " is an operation seldom, if ever, performed now. In this the bone was removed by a trephine head, worked in the same way as a carpenter's boring brace. Instruments required.—Scalpel, trephines, dissecting forceps, catch forceps, a brush to clear aAvay the sawdust, director, fine hypodermic syringe or Graefe's cataract knife, a (pill, IIev's saw, elevator, " lenticular," raspatory, sponges, ordinary and silver drainage tubes, etc.87 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Cautions.—The chief points to be attended to are—(1) To avoid the course of sinuses and arteries, and also sutures, because veins very often pass through at or near sutures. (2) To work the trephine very cautiously, as one can have no idea of the thickness of the skull—it may be very thin or very thick, or one side thick, the other thin; the rule Mr Chiene gives is, to trephine just as if the skull in question were the thinnest skull ever seen, and thinner in one half of the circle than the other. (3) The pericranium must be preserved. The old way was to make a crucial incision through everything right down to the bone at once, and then turn back the flaps. At the present time a V- or horse-shoe-shaped incision is usually employed; the flap must be made in such a way that the blood-vessels are cut where they are smallest—i.e., the convexity of the horse-shoe must be towards the saggital suture, so that the trunks of the arteries are in the base of the flap. (4) The circle of bone must be sawn com- pletely through before it is removed, or a sharp splinter is left on the inner edge, which is difficult to remove, and which if not removed will set up inflammation of the membranes. The centre pin of the trephine is made to project, and fixed by the screw at one side for that purpose; it is then applied to the denuded bone, into which the centre pin is at once pressed, so that it may fix the trephine head till it has made a groove for itself. It is rotated alternately from right to left, until the groove is sufficiently deep to hold the crown, when the centre pin must be withdrawn. The groove is to be cleared out from time to time by a small brush, and measured by a quill or probe to see if it is of the same depth all the way round. "When the diploc is reached the sawdust will he tinged with blood, and then the operator must be specially cautious. With the view of avoiding wound of the dura mater, some operators recommend a conical-crowned trephine. When to Trephine.—No exact rules can be laid down for all cases; each case must be judged on its own merits. The following rules (after Spenck) may be taken as fairly typical and trust- worthy:—{\) At once, in all cases of distinct punctured fracture. In these cases the fracture is, of course, always compound, and we know that the inner table is much broken up, probably into a number of loose, sharp-cornered fragments, which are sure toApplied Ajiatoiny: 88 set up ii^iscliief if left, wliicli will necessitate their removal at a later iDeriod under less favourable conditions. Very often, also, tlie dura mater is wounded by the instrument causing the fracture, or else a sharp specule of bone is driven into it. The trephining in this case is not to relieve compression. (2) At once, in cases of compound comminuted depressed fracture, in the adiilf—not in cases of mere fissure with wounded scalp. In the child, wait for symptoms. (3) In simple depressed fracture, try other means first, and only trephine when the symptoms of comjoression are urgent and persistent. By following this plan we avoid unneces- sarily transforming the simple into a compound fracture. (4) In compression due to extra-meningeal hicmorrhage, when its position can be diagnosed—by the existence of a fissured fracture over the course of the middle meningeal, for example. (5) In comin-es.sion Fig. 149. Pott's Puffy Tumour. (After Spence.) " Puffy Tumoiiv." Abscess. Scalp. Boue. Hiu-.i -Mater. Bmin. due to sujipuration, if the seat can be diagnosed, as from the previous existence of suppuration of the middle ear, or from the presence of Pott's " puffy tumour," or unhealthy state of a scalp woimd, the edges of which become everted and retracted, leaving the bone discoloured at the bottom of the wound, and the discharge becomes thin and gleety. Pott's tumour is merely a boggy infiltra- tion or flattened swelling under or in the scalp tissues, but there is no well-marked "tumour;" if present, it will be of assistance in cases where the scalp is not wounded (Fig. 149). It indicates suppuration between the bone and the dura mater. (6) In cases of epilepsy or local paralysis, due to some local injury, such as a contusion; in these cases the existence of an old scar may guide. In trephining in cases of epilepsy of non-traumatic origin, it probably matters but little what part of the vault of the skull be removed, as any opening thus nwdc will act as a safety valve.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 89 or fontaiiello, in times of extra pressure in the contents of tlie cranium. In connection witli tliis, it is interesting to observe that for some time after birtli the anterior fontanelle actually increases in size; this is no donbt due to the very rapid groM'tli of the brain during this period of life, and probably acts as a safety valve, preventing convulsions. (7) In tumours of the brain, if their seat can be diagnosed. Compression differs from Concussion, in that there must always be a palpable lesion in the former; whereas, in concussion there is no palpable lesion—the changes being probably circulatory. The symptoms come on at once, and are much more evanescent than in compression. If compression is produced at once, it is due to depressed bone; if it comes on in a few hours, it is due to h.-emorrhage; if later—ten to twelve days—it is due to the effects and products of inflammation. Hamiorrhage may either be—(«) acfire, coming from the arteries; or (h) jicissive, from venous sinuses; in the latter case, it is very much slo'wer and more insidious in its onset than when it comes from an artery. Tumours of the Brain.—The usual signs of brain tumour are—(1) Fixed, persistent, and often intense-psim (cej^JialaJgia), especially when near the surface of the brain; (2) sometimes severe giddiness; (3) irritation of motor or sensory functions, or of the special senses; (4) optic neuritis ('■'■ cliol-ed d/.^c"): (5) vomiting is a common .symptom; and (6) alteration in the size of the pupils. The evil results arise—(a) From displacement of parts, (h) hum interference with the functions of the neighbouring parts of the brain, (c) from irritation of parts, followed by inflammation and degeneration, as a direct result; or (J) from interference with the cranial contents, generally from the increased intra-cranial pressure. Should the tuiuour be seated in or near the medulla, we may expect polyuria and diabetes mellitus, or interference with the heart and respiration ; if it is in the cerebellum, affections of co-ordination and eipiilibrium, with a staggering, drunken-like gait. "When a tumour, r.;/., a glioma, affects the cortical centres, epileptiform seizures are common, and tlie fit begins by .'^;^vrt.s•^// of the part in conne(!tion with the centre implicated. These spa.sms, or occasionally paresis or paralysis of certain p.arts, indicate the j)art f)f the crtrtex affected and the point at which the trephine90 Applied Anatomy. should iDe applied, e.g., a tumour about the centre of the right fissure of Eolando will probably cause spasm, paresis, or paralysis, of the left upper extremity ; when the posterior part of the lower half of the pons is affected, we meet with alternate liemiplegia or crossed paralysis—i.e., the facial is paralysed on the same side as the brain lesion, while the body is paralysed on the opposite side; in lesions of the upper lateral half of the pons, the facial is on the same side as the body paralysis, and both are on the side opposite to the bram lesion. When the crura cerebri are affected, we find simultaneous paralysis of half of the face and body, on the side opposite to the brain lesion, but paralysis of the third nerve (motor oculi) on the same side as the brain lesion. THE THYROID GLAND. In man, this is a ductless gland, situated at the upper part of the trachea, and consists of two lateral lobes and the connecting isthmus; the isthmus joins the lower third of the lateral lobes, and usually covers the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. Each lobe extends from the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea to the side of the thyroid cartilage ; the right lobe is a little longer and wider than the left. There is sometimes a conical third lobe, called the pyramid, arising from the left side of the isthmus, or from the left lobe, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. The whole gland is rather larger in females than in males, and is slightly increased during menstruation; the right lobe is slightly larger than the left. Some muscular bands are said, by Sommerring, to pass from the body of the hyoid bone to the upper part of the isthmus, forming a muscle called the levator glomdidm thyroidece. In all the vertebrata the thyroid body arises, as one or more diverticula, from the ventral wall of the pharynx, or floor of the mouth ; in a few of the lowest forms it retains its connection with the pharynx, but in the higher forms this communication becomes shut off, and the duct rendered obsolete. In man and other higher mammals this communication is represented in the embryo, and the passage—first detected by His—is known as the thyreo-hyoid, or the thyreo - lingual duct. On the appearance of the hyoid bone, the duct becomes divided; the segment in relation with tlie tongue is the lingual duct, whilst that which retains its connectionSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 91 with tlie thyroid is tlio tliyroid duct, more commonly Icnown as the " processus pyramidalis," and as it is often surrounded by muscular tissue, is frequently described in anatomical text-books as the "levator glandulaj thyroideaj." The lingual duct is sometimes present in the adult, and extends from tlie foramen cajcum on the dorsum linguse to the hollow of the hyoid bone. Should both ends become closed, it will give rise to a lingual dermoid; it may also give rise to tumours structurally resembling the thyroid gland— thyroid dermoids, or the congenital adenomata (Bland Sutton). Relations.^—Anteriorly—The integumentary structures and deep fascia, and the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles. Laterally—The sheath of the carotid vessels. Posteriorly—The trachea and larynx and the lower part of the pharynx, and on the left side the oesophagus also. Structure.—It consists of a capsule of connective tissue, from which, as usual, septa pass off into the interior of the organ, dividing it up into lobes and lobules; numerous blood-vessels and lymphatics ramify in the septa. Each lobule consists of a number of closed vesicles closely surrounded by a kind of vascular connec- tive capsule, derived from the septa; each vesicle is lined by a single layer of epithelial cells, and contains a viscid, homogenous, semi- fluid, slightly yellowish, or bloody material, in which are found red blood corpuscles in all stages of disorganisation and discoloration. Vessels.—The thyroid gland is a very vascular structure. Its Arteries are the superior and inferior thyroids, and sometimes tlie tliyroidea media or ima, which arises from the innominate, or the arch of the aorta, and passes up in front of the trachea. The arteries are very large, and anastomose with great frequency. The Veins form a plexiis round the gland and on the front of the trachea, from which plexus the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins arise; tlie superior and middle end in the internal jugular, the inferior in the innominate vein. The superior crosses in front of the upper part of the common and the lower part of the external carotid, the middle in front of the lower part of the common carotid, and the inferior in front of the trachea; they must, therefore, be carefully looked for and secured, in ligature of these arteries, and in the low operation of tracheotomy. The Nerves are derived from the pneumogastric, and from the middleApplied Anatomy: 92 and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Tlie various forms of enlargements to which this gland is subject, commonly go hy the name of— Bronchocele or Goitre. — Varieties — All forms begin as a simple hypertrophy of the gland substance, but during its progress one or other constituent increases out of proportion to the others. (1) Simple Broncliocelc, where all the j^ai'ts of the gland remain equally affected ; (2) Oijsfk Broncliocele, where the vesicles are principally affected; (3) Fibrous Bronchocele, the interlobular fibrous tissue undergoes great increase; (4) Pulsating Bronchocele, where the arteries are very much enlarged and pulsate; this variety, when associated with protrusion of the eyeballs (proptosis oeuli), is known as Exoyhtlialmic Goitre (Graves's or Basedow's disease). The above forms are associated with the usual signs of anosmia, as pallor, palpitation, bruits of debilitj^, both cardiac and vascular, dyspepsia, and menstrual troubles. There are, however, other two forms of enlargement—(«) From malignant disease or Alalignant Bronchocele, which always folloM's one or other of the chronic forms of bronchocele already mentioned; carcinoma occurs more frequently than sarcoma. (Z;) There is an AcMte Bronchocele which may cause death from asphyxia in a few days or weeks; it is usually found in adolescents. In this country goitre is most common in Derbyshire, and has, therefore, been called the " Derhijsh.ire nech." When goitre is associated with idiocy it constitutes the condition known as " Cretinism." Diagnosis.—The cystic and pidsating varieties mirst be diagnosed from carotid aneurism or other swellings of the neck ; the position, shape, and attachments will help, but the most characteristic diagnostic point is to ask the patient to swallow when the thjToid body will move with the larynx and trachea during that act. In pulsating bronchocele too, the isthmus is always affected more or less, and the swelling is, furtlier, more fixed towards the trachea or middle line, whereas a carotid aneurism is most firmly fixed under the sterno-mastoid. For the different varieties, diagnose on general principles : the fibrous form is most likely to give rise to pressure eU'ects—e.g., on the trachea and botli superior laryngeal nerves : if the bronchocele be one-sided, it is practically always the cystii' variety; the vascular form affects both sides more or less.93 Si/roica/, Medical, at/d Operative. Treatment.—JJi.auu'.s pills for tlic aiui'iniii; chiiiigc Lu higlicr, drier, ;iud more airy dwellings; iodine or the iodides, both in- ternally, and externally, in the form of ointments, Avell niLbed in, in front of a good fire, or in the sun's rays. Tor the Simple form, try medical treatment lirst; only excise tlie gland if there be great dyspnoea and dysphagia. For the Cystic—tap and draw oh' the fluid, and inject iodine; the iiuid is usually like coft'ee-grounds. The Fibrous treat as the simple variety. For the Vascular forms, try medical treatment hrst; and if this fail, then use electrolysis (Duncan). Ergot and ligature of the thyroid arteries hiwc also been tried for this form. Excision of the Thyroid (Watsox). — Make a free mesial incision down to and through the deep fascia of the neck. It will be safer to divide the deep fascia on a Hat director. ]3o not divide the areolar tissue surrounding the gland, which is a prolongation of the cellular tissue sheaths of tlio arteries supplying it, and if this be torn through it will be impossible to secure the vessels, as they are so brittle; the capsule of the gland itself must also be left luidisturbcd, otherwise, if it be opened, there will be excessive haemorrhage. After the deep fascia of the neck is divided the muscles arc drawn aside and the gland exposed well all round. The vessels must now be secured. The four arteries enter at the four corners, but the veins leave on every side, except the upper edge; all vessels must be secured ■within their sheaths with double ligatures, passed l)y means of an aneurism needle. Pass all round the gland, taking up the tissue in bundles, and tying it en masse; after this divide the tissue between the two ligatures, open the areolar tissue surrounding the capsule of the gland, carefully snip through all other attachments with blunt-pointed scissors, securing any vessel as you proceed, and remove the gland entire in its capsule, taking special care lest there be adhesions to the internal jugular vein. Other methods are—Excision of one-half of the gland, and excision of the isthmus, with the hope that the gland will then atrophy. Li«tmr also scoops out a part of the gland by means of a large, sharp spoon, through an inci.sion near the edge of the stenio-nuistoid; the gland is opened by rAquni.i.v's cautery, and tlie spoon introduced. The bleeding is restrained by pressure.Applied Anatomy: 94 When Acute Bronchocele gives rise to serious symptoms, three courses are open to the Surgeon—(1) To perform the low operation of tracheotomy; (2) division of the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles, as they bind the gland down and press it against the trachea (Bonnet); (3) division of the isthmus for the same purpose, to remove the pressure from the windpipe (Gibb). Clinical Relationships.—^The relation of the thyroid gland to— (1) Cretinism, (2) Myxoedema, (3) Acromegaly, and (4) to certain bone diseases, is well worthy of the student's attention. 1. Cretinism has been observed as a sequel to excision of the gland. 2. Myxoedema (Ord) has also been frequently observed, by KocHER and others, as a sequel to the same operation. In this disease the connective tissue, especially of the hands, feet, and face, become swollen, waxy-like, and rounded in outhne; it seems that the constituent gelatine and chondrine revert to the embryonic type, and become transformed into mucin or mucous tissue. There is a gradually increasing debility, harsh dry skin, large baggy swellings in the supra-clavicular regions; the intellect becomes dulled, the circulation sluggish, thought and speech, and all the mental faculties become slow; the eyelids become thick, heavy, swollen, and transparent; the hands spade-like, and the expression of the countenance idiotic ; and the patient may even become insane. To avoid this unfortunate result, it has been advised that the isthmus alone be removed, and in many cases its removal has been followed by atrophy of the lateral lobes. The a^dema in this aifection differs from ordinary dropsy, in the fact that it is not necessarily found in the most dependent parts, and that the swollen parts do not pit on pressure. It is most frequently found in women of middle age; the usual change in the thyroid consists in the substitution of delicate fibrous tissue for the proper glandular substance. The ]Myxoedema Committee believe that it is the same disease as that named Sjwradic Cretinism affecting children, and probably identical with Cachexia StrumipHva of KocHBR, and also closely allied to the " cretinoid condition" of Gull. It is quite probable that the gland has a tropliic function; in its clinical relationships it seems to resemble the supra-renal capsules.95 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 3. Acromegaly (acromegalin) seems to have some obscure relation to tiftcctions of this gland. At first sight this aflection seems to resemble myxoodema, but is widely different. 1'he lower jaw becomes very much enlarged, so that the face becomes egg- shaped, with the large end doAvn'wards; the cartilages and bones of the nose, the cartilages of the eyelids and ears, are much enlarged, the lower lip thick and everted, but the long bones are rarely affected. Tlie disease has received its name from the char- acteristic and gigantic enlargement of the head, hands, and feet, but there is no swelling or cedema of the soft parts. In women, menstruation usuafl}'' ceases early in the course of the disease. The cause of the enlargement is found in an overgrowth of the hones themselves, and thus differs from myxcfidema, where the soft parts alone are affected; the lower jaw and cheek bones are specially affected. In acromegaly we may, however, find other curious changes besides alterations in the thyroid—viz., enlarge- ment of the hypophysis cerebri (pituitary body), and persistence and hyperplasia of the thymus. The eidargement of the pituitary body may cause pressure upon, or even destruction of the optic commissure. It will also be remembered that this little body has a very curious developmental history, and that it is constant and luiiform through all the vertel^rata; it is formed by two outgrowths, one from the brain, the other from the epiblast of the back and upper part of the future mouth. 4. It has been noticed that in many cases of Malignant Disease of the Thyroid, secondary growtlis are specially apt to occur in the bones, these growths having the same general style of structure as the thyroid gland itself; indeed, it would seem that a simple en- largement of the thyroid, when associated with other growths of a malignant nature, in the bones and viscera, is able to stamp them with its own peculiarity of structure (IIutchinson). THE PAROTID GLAND. This gland fills up the hollow between the mastoid process and the sterno-mastoid muscle behind, and the ascending ramus of the lower jaw in front. Boundaries.—Above, it extends as high us the zygomatic process; below, it is bounded by a line passing from the angle of the lower jaw to the anterior border of the stcrno-nuistoidApplied Anatomy: 06 nuiscle; behind, by the external auUitoiy mciitus, pinna, mastoid process, and sterno-mastoid muscle; anteriorly, it stretches over the masseter muscle, and from this part the duct emerges. The deep surface of the gland extends to the styloid process, passes beueatli the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle; it also fills up the hollow behind and below the articulation of the lower jaw, and further, passes to the great vessels in this region. The gland is invested by a dense fibrous sheath, derived from the deep cervical fascia; it is very dense on the outer and lower aspects of the gland, but on the irpper and deep aspects it is very thin, and between the styloid process and the external pterygoid muscle it is absent altogether. Abscesses therefore tend to pass upwards towards the temporal or zygomatic fossa3, or inwards towards the pharynx, rarely passing outwards or downwards. Pus may also make its ^vay from the pharynx outwards to the jjarotid region, or down from the temporal fossa. The deep surface of the gland has a very close relation to the cartilaginous part of the external audi- tory meatus, the ramus of the lower jaw, and the tempore-maxillary articulation, as ^\"ell as the great vessels and nerves of the neck— the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the vagus, the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, and the hypoglossal nerves. It has a close relation also to the foramen ovale and the exit of the third division of the fifth nerve, so that pus has been known to pass from the parotid region into the skuU along this nerve (ViRCHOW). Tumours and Abscesses of tliis gland give rise to much pain because of the dense unyielding fibrous capsule of the gland, and, therefore, should be relieved early by incision (in the case of abscess), or excision (in the case of tumours). The relation of the gland to various important vessels and nerves must be kept in mind :—(1) The external carotid enters the deep .surface of the gland, and gives off in it the following branches :—(a) Occipital, {})) posterior auricular, («) temporal, and {d) internal maxillary. (2) Passing from the gland is the external jugular vein, formed in the gland by the union of—{a) Tlie temporal, (i) internal maxillary, (c) posterior auricular, and {d) transverse lacial veins. (3) The aurieulo-temporal nerve enters the gland at its lower and posterior part, and tlie facial nerve passes through the gland andS/irgiml, Medical, and Operative. 97 leaves it by its upper, anterior, and lower borders, The order from the surface is—nerves, veins, arteries. Paralysis of the facial nerve is a not uncommon result of tumours in this region; it is specially common in malignant tumours, but not in innocent; some even use this as a diagnostic difference between simple and malignant tumours. The difference is probably due to the rate of growth in the two cases. But, further, the deep surface of the gland is in relation with the internal carotid artery, and internal jugular vein. Parotitis and abscess have frequently been found after injuries of the abdomen and pelvis; the cause is not known, though some have suggested that it is jirobably jDyajmic in nature. In operations about the gland for the excision of tumours or the opening of an abscess, the knife should not be entered behind a line drawn from the condyle to the angle of the jaw, lest the external carotid artery should be injured; and, to avoid wound- ing the trunk of the facial nerve or the chief branches of the pes anserinus," the incisions should be made as far as possible parallel with the main trunks—i.e., the knife must be held hori- zontally, and the gland at the same time be drawn well forwards. The facial is the motor nerve of the muscles of expression, and its division gives rise to paralysis of these muscles; hence the importance of preserving it from injury. Abscesses, however, in this region are best opened in the way introduced by the late Mr Hilton—an incision is made through the skin and deep fascia only, near the angle of the jaw, and then a director is pushed on into the cavity of the abscess; that the director has reached the abscess is indicated by the fact that the point is free, or else by the escape of pus along the groove. Then a pair of dressing forceps are passed along the director, closed, and when they have entered the cavity the director is taken out and the blades of the forceps are tlien opened, and the instrument withdrawn. As elsewhere, the opening must be dependent for the purposes of drainage. In connection with abscesses in this region, it should be noted that there are a few lymphatic glands deeply placed in the substance of the parotid, and which receive lymphatics from the nasal, temporal, and orbital foss;c, and from the mucous membrane of tlie pharynx and mouth. Irritation in these parts, therefore, may readily be the starting point of a parotid abscess.Applied Anatomy: 98 DERMOID GEOWTHS. Definition.—Dermoids* are cysts or tumours, furnished with, skin or mucous membrane (which may or may not be accompanied with the apjjendages peculiar to these structures), occurring in situations where skin and mucous membrane are not normally found (J. Bland Sutton). The simple cystic forms contain a porridge-like material composed of sebum, cholesterine, and shed hairs, and are lined with skin, e.g., at the outer angle of the eyebrow. Complex forms may contain, in addition to hair and skin, luuscular fibres, teeth, nails, and masses resembling mammas. Dermoids are apt to arise in situations where, during embryonic life, coalescence takes place between two surfaces covered by epiblast—as in the middle line, where the two halves of the body join. Such a line may be indicated by starting at the root of the nose and drawing a line to the external occipital protuberance, then along the mid line of the back to the coccyx, then through the perineum, scrotum, and penis, upwards through the umbUicus, thorax, and neck to the symphysis menti; also along the median raphe of the palate. They also occur in the lines of the various secondary fissures of the face and neck (see vol. ii., page 44); in such cases the dermoids will not be situated in the middle line. They may also be produced on any other part of the body liy implantation of epithelium under the skin, as in punctured wounds —e.g., on the limbs, fingers, iris, etc.—" implantation dermoids." Another group of dermoids has its origin in connection with obliterated embryonic canals and ducts-—usually in, or in con- nection with, some part of the jirimitive alimentary canal, and are most commonly found near the coccyx, the tongue, and the neck. They may be found in the pharynx, hanging from the soft palate or roof of pharynx, and also in the rectum. Of such a nature, in aU jjrobability, are the congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. " It is an interesting fact that the six obsolete canals existing in the embryo of a mammal—viz., the infundibulum (of the brain), the neuro-enteric passage; the post-anal gut, the crauio-pharyngeal canal, the thyreo-lingual duct (duct of the thyroid body), and the * For a full account of Dermoids, see an exceedingly able and interest ing series of lectures by J. Bland >Sutton, iMt.c.t!.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 99 duct of the yolk sac, should all have direct relation with the alimentary canal, and each be directly associated with dermoids often of considerable complexity, and with a peculiar form of tumour identical in structure with the thyroid body " (Sutton). Tor this reason such tumours are sometimes known as " congenital adenomata," or "thyroid dermoids"—e.g., congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. EXCISION OF THE TONGUE. This operation may be performed in several ways— (1) From the inside of the mouth, without any external incisions. (2) By incisions below the jaw (submental, or Eegnoli's method). (3) By section of the lower lip and jaw (Sedillot's method). Instruments required.—Scalpel, a broad-pointed pair of dis- secting forceps, an extensive stock of Wells's or Pean's forceps, a gag, a bone drill, copper retractors, blunt hooks for ligature of the lingual; tooth forceps for incisor teeth, in cases where the jaw is to be divided; a narrow-bladed, movable-backed saw; stout silk thread to pass through tip of tongue; copper or silver wire to suture the jaw, "key" to tighten the same ; wire-cutting pliers, scissors of various kinds (one pair curved and blunt-pointed); ligatures of catgut and silk; solution of chloride of zinc, collodion to close incision after ligature of lingual; small sponges on sticks, special sponge holders, or on Pean's forceps; Trendelenburg's trachea " tampoon," or some other means to prevent blood passing down to the lungs; instruments for tracheotomy; IIigginson's syringe, lint, bandages, needles, chloroform; two strips of bandage to fasten round and separate the divided jaw. Haiin's trachea tube may be used instead of Trendelenburg's. It resembles an ordinary tracheotomy tube, but round the outer tube is a sheatli of compressed sponge. When it is introduced the natural moisture in the trachea causes the sponge to swell, which thus completely blocks up that tube. The sponge requires ten or fifteen minutes to swell sufficiently. It is better, at the same time, to plug the pharynx with a sponge, lest blood should soak past the tube. The inner part of Haiin's tube is prolonged and bent downwards, in order that the chloroformist may be out of the operator's way.100 Applied Aiintfliiiy: 1. From the inside of tfie IVIouth—The ijatient is gagged and the tongue is secured with a piece of whip cord, and drawn well forwards and upwards. Then, liy means of a strong curved pair of scissors, cut through—(a) the frsenum lingu£e; (i) insertions of genio-hyoids; (c) insertions of genio-hyoglossi muscles, and cut well back so as to set free the base of the tongue, dividing (r/) the palato-glossus; then cut (e) the reflexion of the mucous membrane on the floor of the mouth from the lower jaw. Free the base of the tongue with the fingers and dra^w it well forwards, and apply the wire t'craseur and gradually remove the organ. If the anterior pillar of the fauces be in the way it may be cut across. If one half of the tongue is to be removed then two ecraseurs must be used; or, better, after the base of the tongue is freed, then by means of a sharp-pointed bistoury transfix the tongue at the posterior part, from below ujjwards; and then cut accurately along the middle line to the tip, and apply the ocraseur at the base of the half to be removed. i Wilitehead, of ]\[anchester, removes the tongue through the mouth with the scissors alone. The patient is gagged as before, and the gag committed to the care of an assistant. Then a double ligature is passed through the tongue one inch from its tip, and given in charge to a second assistant who has to make steady traction upwards and outwards during the whole of the operation. Another assistant must be prepared to keep the mouth and throat free from blood by means of sponges. Instruments required.—Sponges and holders, scissors, "Wells's forceps, a handled needle threaded with stout silk, and carbolised silk ligatures. The operator then divides all the attachments of the tongue to the jaw and pillars of the fauces with a pair of ordinary straight scissors. Tlie muscles forming the base of the tongue are next to be cut across by a series of short snips, with blunt-pointed scissors, as far back as the safetj"- of the epiglottis Avill permit. Bleeding vessels are seized and twisted or tied as soon as exposed, and lastly, a loop of silk is passed through the glosso-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane as a means of draAving forward the floor of the mouth in the event of secondary haemorrhage: this ligature may be removed on the second day. By the combination of short snips with the scissors, the tongue being pulled forward all the101 Surgical, Rlcdical, mid Operative. time, the small vessels eaii Ijo seen and secured at tmee, and the large raiiine exposed and secured before it is divided \ further, hy this method the rauinc artery is only divided at tlic cud of the operation. A\'hcre the whole tongue is to be removed, it is better to split it, pass two ligatures througli the tip, and pull forw ard and excise one half at a time. The Structures divided are — (1) The mucous membrane; (2) genio-liyoids; (3) genio-liyoglossi muscles; (4) part of the submaxillary gland with vessels and duct, though the gland nuiy he pushed aside; (5) the palato-glossus muscle; (G) liyoglossus; (7) styloglossus; (8) intrinsic muscles of the tongue; (9) glosso- ojnglottidean folds of mucous membrane; (10) lingual vessels; (11) lingual and chorda tympani nerves; (12) hypoglossal nerve, and, perliajis, part of the glosso-pharyngeal. One-half of the tongue may be removed in the same way, after having first split it in the middle line with a bistoury. IsVx Whitehead, however, does not split the tongue nor does he perform a preliminary laryngotomy. The advantages of a preliminary laryngotomy are two-fold—(1) It idfectually prevents blood entering the trachea, and (2) the patient may be allowed to breath through the opening for some days till the wound has begiin to granulate or is well on the way towards healing. In this way the usual cause of death—septic pneumonia —is to a great extent prevented. The causes of septic pneumonia are two-fold—blood entering the air vesicles, and the inhalation of optic organisms from the floor of the mouth; but with a prelimimiry laryngotomy both these may to a great extent be prevented. The patient must be fed for a time by nutrient enemata, and the mouth washed out very frequently by a warm solution of boro-glyceride or boracic acid, and the floor of the mouth covered with a layer of impalpable boracic powder—a method introduced by IMr Duncan,—the patient in the Jiieantime breathing through Hie tracheotomy tube. l>y this means the wound is kept aseptic, ;Mid the risk of ijduding septic oi'ganisms is lessened, ami the great l ause of death avoided—sejjtic pneumonia. Later, he may be fed Ihrough a tube. In operations on the tongue the only serious immediate danger is hicmorrhage from tlic divided Unguals. The vessel may be compressed from the mouth by passing the forefinger "ver the dorsum of the tongue till it touches the epiglottis; it is102 Applied Anatomy: then turned tow.ards the side on which the artery is to be com- pressed and hooked forcibly up against the jaw. The lingual artery may also be ligatured at the beginning of the operation. The incision thus made may be utilised to remove suspicious sub- maxillary glands. t p RESUME of Whitehead's operation (slightly modified):— 1. Perform a preliminary laryngotomy if thought necessary. 2. Introduce the gag at side of mouth ojDposite disease. 3. Transfix the diseased half with the stout silk ligature; loop and knot the ligature, and pull the tongue well forwards. It is probably better also to pass a ligature through the other half of the tongue as well. 4. Split the tongue with a sharp-pointed bistoury along the raphe to a point well behind the disease. 5. Pull the diseased half well forwards and divide the mucous membrane close to the jaw, to be well away from the disease. 6. IS'ext divide the anterior pillar of the fauces, and free the half of the tongue all round. 7. Divide the muscles fixing the tongue to the floor of the mouth. 8. Divide it transversely behind the disease with short snij^s, or by combined snipping and tearing, till the lingual artery is exposed. 9 Secure the artery with a pair of Wells's forceps, remove the tongue, and then tie the artery; or the artery may be tied before the tongue is removed. 2. By incisions below the Jaw.—Eegnoli's incisions were the following:—An incision of semi-lunar shape made along the line of the lower jaw, if possible confined within the space between the two facial arteries; another, a perpendicular incision, carried from the centre of the semi-lunar one, under the chin down as far as the hyoid bone, and then the flaps dissected back. Care must be taken not to injure the facial arteries. Then (o) the integuments are cut through, and after this the structures forming the floor of the mouth—viz., (/>) the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles; (c) the mylo-hyoids, transversely at their anterior part; {d) the103 Stirgical^ Medical, and Operative. insertions of genio-hyoids and of the genio-hyoglossi; and (e) the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. A piece of strong whip cord is then passed through the tip of the tongue, or it is seized with a strong hook-forceps, and drawn through the opening betAveen the lower jaw and the hyoid bone, and removed by the knife, or ccraseur, by dividing its attachments—(1) to the epiglottis, viz., the three epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane (a central and two lateral)- and (2) to the hyoid bone, viz., the hyoglossus and genio-hyoglossus muscles, and the hyoglossal membrane. The lingual ends of the palato-glossus and stylo-glossus will also be divided. The lingual arteries may now be secured, or they may be exposed and tied before removing the tongue; they Avill be found to pass forwards on the outer side of the genio-hyoglossi muscles between them and the hyoglossi. The wound is then stitched up and drained from the lower end of the vertical cut. The great objection to this operation is, that all the muscles that elevate the hyoid bone and larynx are divided, and it consequently interferes with the movements of deglutition and respiration to a certain extent. Kocher's Method (Fig. 150).—By this method not only the tongue, but the infra-maxillary glands are also removed. He performs a preliminary tracheotomj^, and introduces a Trendelen- burg's canula, or a Hahn's tube, and the facial and lingual arteries are ligatured at an early stage of the operation. The incision he uses is the following:—It begins a little below the lobule of the car, and is carried down along the anterior edge of the sterno- mastoid to the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. From this point the incision is carried forwards nearly to the body of the hyoid bone, and then upwards along the line of the anterior belly of the digastric to the jaw. The lingual artery and the facial vessels are secured and divided, and the flap is then turned up over the face, and by a careful dissection the submaxillary lymphatic glands and tongue are removed. Not only may the sub- maxillary glands be removed, but the glands near the angle of the jaw and those about the bifurcation of the common carotid, as well as those on the hyoglossus, may also be taken away by this incision. The advantages claimed for this method are that the dangers from hemorrhage, septic absorption, and pneumonia are done away Avith.104. Applied Anaioniy: The patient sliould be fed by a stomach tube, or per rectum, for the first few days, otherwise particles of food He about the wouud and decompose. The stomach tube should be passed during the operation, and left in situ, the end being brought out under the jaw, through tlic wound at the side of the neck. Fig. 150. Kocher's Excision of the Tongue. 3. By Section of the Lower Lip and Jaw.—Tliis operation was first performed in this country by SyjME. By it the disadvantages of Eengoli's method are done away Avith, but there is an additional risk incurred from the section of the lower jaw, and that is the great disadvantage of tliis operation, as its severity, it is said, is materially increased by division of that boue; and, further, it isSurgical, Medical, ai/d Operative. 105 inii)Ossiblc to keep the lloor of the moiitli aseptic. It is tlic method to be adopted when very free access is required—c.r/., Avhen the disease has extended back to the tonsils. A piece of strong Avhip- cord is passed through the tip of the tongue, so as to enable it to be draAvn forwards when necessary, and the two central incisor teeth are extracted. Then an incision is made through the central line of the lower lip, across the chin, and down as far as the liyoid bone; the operator next divides the soft parts in the middle line, detaches the genio-hyoglossi muscles, and saws the lower jaAv through at the symphysis. It is recommended to make the section of the bone >•-shaped, so that the two halves may lock after the operation; or two holes may be drilled in the bone before the section is made, by which the two parts may be sutured afterwards. The sawn ends of the jaw are next firmly tied with a piece of narrow cotton bandage, and the two halves of the bone forcibly separated by assistants, and the mucous membrane and hyoglossi muscles cut through, first on the one side and then on the other. The tongue is next drawn forwards, and the lingual arteries divided and secured on both sides, and it is then removed from the hyoid bone by a stroke of the knife, or gradually removed by the wire ccraseur; all bleeding vessels are now to be tied, as twigs from the ascending pharyngeal, and tonsillar branch of the facial. In this, as in other methods, either or both lingual arteries may be tied before beginning the operation, or else a preliminary laryngotomy may be performed. Not only does this latter plan obviate the dangers arising from the passage of blood down the respiratory passages, but is believed also to be a safeguard against septic pneumonia, as the patient breathes through the tube, and does not, therefore, inhale septic organisms from the wound in the mouth or jaw, or from the stump of the tongue; tlie method of continuous irrigation with some warm antiseptic solution, hoAvever, should greatly lessen the risk of inhaling septic organisms. RESUME of the operations for excision:— 1. As a rule, use Whitehead's method. 2. In some cases, where the glands bcloAV the jaAv are much enlarged, and if the patient presses the operation, use IvEGNom'« method, or tlie plan iulopted liy KociiKii;106 Applied Anatomy: in many cases neither of these will give free enough access, though the wound can more easily be kept aseptic, and the jaw is not divided. 3. In cases where very free access is required, as when the the disease has spread back to the tonsil, use Syme's method; though perhaps the least safe, it gives the freest possible access. It is also to be used in cases where both sides of the anterior part of the floor of the mouth are involved, with enlarged glands under the jaw. This method will probably always require a j)relimiuary laryngotomy. Lymphatics of the Tongue. — The lymphatics of the tongue accompany the ranine veins, and pass through some small glands lying on the hyoglossus, and thereafter folloAV the course of the lingual vein, and enter the deep cervical glands near the bifurcation of the common carotid and the great cornu of the hyoid bone; it is here, therefore, that one must look for secondary glandular enlargement in epithelioma of that organ. The anterior part of the tongue may also affect the submaxillary glands, while the posterior part may affect the glands at the angle of the jaw before entering the deep cervical set. In Epithelioma of the Tongue, pain in the ear is regarded as a specially grave symptom; it may indicate either that the disease has passed deeply into the floor of the mouth and involved the trunk of the lingual nerve, or that it has passed so far back as to involve the tonsil. In the former case the pain is conducted to the ear and temporal region along the lingual nerve, and from it to the other branches of the third division of the fifth, especially the auriculo-temporal nerve; in the latter the pain passes along the branches of Meckel's ganglion to the second division of the fifth, and from that to the temple, along the temporal branch of the orbital nerve. There is, however, still another explanation—viz., that the disease has passed so far back as to involve the posterior tliird of the tongue, which is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. This nerve, besides supplying the tongue, is also the source of the chief supply to the tonsil. It is probable, therefore, that the tympanic branch of this nerve (Jacobson's nerve), carries the irritation to tlie tympanic plexus; hence the pain in the ear, andSurgical, Medical, at id Operative. 107 licncc also the gravity of the syniptoiii wheii present. Another symptom present is profuse salivation, ■which exhausts the patient; this is reflex, the afferent nerves being the lingual or the glosso- pharyngeal, and the efferent the chorda tympaui and Jacobson's nerve, or the small superficial petrosal. The growth of the cancer irritates the lingual or the glosso-pharyngeal, and hence the profuse flow of saliva. Tlie cancer thus kills—(1) By the pain, that wears the patient out; and further, he is afraid to eat, and is thus starved; (2) the profuse salivation ; and (3) hemorrhage. The Arteries of the Tongue are on each side the ranine and the dorsalis lingute from the lingual, branches from the ascending pharyngeal, and tonsillar branch of the facial, towards the root of the orran. The Nerves consist of three sets in each half—(1) Motor, the Hijpo-glossal; (2) Common Sensation, the Lhujual for the anterior two thirds, the GJosso-pliaryngeal for the posterior third, and towards the root, the lingual filament of the Siiperior Lartjngeal; (3) Special Sense of Taste, the Chorda Tympani, for the anterior two thirds; and the Glosso-pliarij7igeal, for the posterior third. THE NOSE. Boundaries of tlie Fossas.—The roof is formed by («) the nasal bones, (h) the nasal spine of the frontal, (c) the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and {d) the body of the sphenoid. The floor is formed by (a) the palate process of the superior maxillarj'^, and {h) the palate process of the palate bone. It is concave from before backwards, and the posterior part is on a slightly lower level than the anterior. The outer wall is formed by (a) the nasal process of the superior maxillary, (h) the lachrymal bone, (c) the ethmoid, with its two turbinate bones, {d) the vertical plate of the palate bone, (e) the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid, and (/) the inferior turbinate bone. This wall presents three passages or meatuses formed between the turbinate bones. The inner wall or septum is formed by («) the rostrum of the sphenoid, {h) the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, {<•) the vomer, {d) the crest formed by the meeting of the two palate bones, (e) the crest formed by the meeting of the two superior maxilla), (/) the nasal spine of the frontal, (cf) the crest of the nasal bones, and {h) the triangularlOS Applied Anatomy: cartilage. The septum is sometimes perforated, ami is very usually deflected to oue or other side. The nasal foss;e couimunicatc— in front, with tlie fticc, by the two anterior nares; and behind, with the pharynx, by the two posterior nares. Each fossa com- municates Avith four cavities — (1) The orbit, by the lachrymal canal; (2) the mouth, by the anterior palatine canal; (3) the cranium, by the olfactory formina; and (4) the splieno-maxillary fossa, by the spheno-palatine foramen. Each fossa also communi- cates with four sinuses—(1) The frontal above, (2) the sphenoidal behind, (3) the autrum on the outer side, and (4) the ethmoidal on the inner side. Along these various patlis simple inflammatory affections, or specific septic inflammations — e.g., erysipelas or diphtheria—of the nose readily spread, as their mucous lining is continuous with that of the nasal cavities. Openings. — (1) Into the superior meatus—(a) The si^heno- palatine, and (&) the posterior ethmoidal cells. The opening of the .sphenoidal sinuses is usually behind the superior turbinate bone. (2) Into the middle meatus — («) The infundibulum, by which the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through these the frontal sinuses, conununicate with this meatus; and {U) the autrum—the oj^ening of the antrum is close to that of the frontal sinus. (3) Into the inferior meatus—the nasal duct. Regions of the Nose (Fig. 151).—(1) Region of the External Nostrils, the part that appears on the face. It is roughly triangular in shape, and is lined by squamous, stratified epithelium. (2) The Olfactory Region, whicli includes the roof of the nose, the upper and middle turbinate bones, and the superior and middle meatus, and the upper two thirds of the septum. In this region the olfactory nerve is distributed, terminating in the olfactory cells of Max Schultze, -which are situated between tlie columnar cells covering the mucous membrane of this part. (3) The Respiratory Region—which includes all below the inferior turbinate bone— the inferior meatus, the floor of the nose, and the lower third of the septum. In this region the epithelium is columnar ami ciliated. In all parts of the Schneiderian membrane there are numerous glands which secrete partly a mucous and partly a watery secretion; and in many parts it is also extremely vasc\dar, almost forming an erectile tissue, especially over the inferior turbinateSurgical, Uledical, and Operative. 109 Loues. This froo vascular supply is very important, as it enables the mucous membrane to play the part of a system of hot-water pipes, ami warm the air before it reaches the lungs; hence the Creator intended man to breathe through his nose, not his mouth, as most peojile seem to think. The chief Blood - vessels arc the spheno - palatine and the descending branches of the internal maxillary artery, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal from the oijlithalmic, and the artery to the septum from the superior coronary of the facial. Some of the Veins enter the superior longitudinal sinus through the foramen ctccum. Fig. 151. Regions of the Nose. In this way spreading septic inflammation and septic venous tlirombosis may readily extend to the cerebral sinuses. The Nerves are the Olfactory, or nerve of the sense of smell; the nerves of Common Sensation are the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, twigs from the superior maxillary, the Vidian, naso- palatine, and the anterior palatine. The Lymphatics of the Nose pass—(1) To the deep parotid glands; (2) to the deep cervical glands, in front of and beneath the sterno-mastoid, and possibly to the .submaxillary group; and (3) to a gland lying in front of the rectus capitis anticus major,110 Applied Anatomy: and axis, beliiud the phamyx; hence, it is possible to have a retro- pharyngeal abscess from disease of the nose (Frankel). This, of course, would not communicate with the vertebrse, and the patient would therefore be able to move his head freely in all directions. The Nasal Bones are frequently broken by direct violence, and the "bridge" of the nose driven in; if the mucous membrane be torn, there will probably be subcutaneous emiihysema. The bones must be moulded into position by a pair of forceps jiushed up th(3 nostrils and the fingers without; when once in a position there is no tendency to a redisplacement, as no muscles act upon them. The fracture unites with great rapidity, being usually quite solid in two weeks. A blow at tbe root of the nose, however, is less likely to produce a fracture of the nasal bones, as at that point they are thick and strong; a fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, or the orbital plate of the frontal, is far more likely to occur, with or without injury to the first and second pairs of cranial nerves (olfactory and optic). It may also j^roduce a depressed fracture into the frontal sinus, but without injuring the inner table, or the contents of the cranial cavity. It should be remembered that a crack into the frontal sinus, or the nose, or the antrum, will produce subcutaneous emphysema. Epistaxis, or bleeding from the nose, may either be traumatic or idiopathic. Traumatic, usually from a direct blow, or from fractiu'e of the base of the skull. Idiopathic, as from local congestions of the mucous membrane, disease of the blood-vessels, altered blood states, as purpura htemorrhagica, hasmophilia, and scurvy; from an impoverished state of the blood in the cachetic and ansemic, also associated with kidney, liver, and heart diseases; and, lastly, from vascular malignant growths. It might also be classified according to the age of the patient. (1) In the young—From local congestion, as frequently seen in children, and in young persons about puberty, especially in girls; in the young, also, epistaxis from falls and blows is common. (2) In middle life— As an accompaniment of kidney, liver, and heart disease, especially the granular contracted kidney and cirrhosis of the liver; in some of these cases, especially in general plethora, the bleeding instead of doing harm may do good, as it may be the means of preventing a cerebral hremorrhage. In the antemic and cachectic, however, itStirgicnl, Medical, and Ope^'ative. Ill is a very serious matter. The state of the pulse will be some guide as to what to do; if the pulse be hard and incompressible do not be in too great a hurry to stop it. (3) In the old—It may arise from disease of the vessels, or from weak and ansemic states of the system, and also from the various conditions causing epistaxis in middle life as well. In the old and weak it is a very serious matter if profuse, but in the young and plethoric it rarely does inuch harm. Treatment.—(1) Inject ergot hypodermically, as it acts much more quickly this way. (2) In the interval between its injection and the time it takes effect, use general means, as mental and bodily rest with the head elevated; the head must not be held down over a basin. That in itself is quite sufficient in many cases to cause epistaxis, and is a very important agent in keeping up an attack. Cold to the back of the head and neck to stimulate the vaso-motor centre—hence the popular, old-fashioned, cold door key; the modern " Chubb " is of little use. A very important point, I believe, is to keep the mouth open and breathe freely and deeply for a short time, as this in a very marked manner lessens the congestion of the vessels of the head and neck by the aspiration of the thorax, and if persisted in will even cause fainting from antemia of the brain; this is the only method I adopt in my own case, and I have always found it speedily effectual. It may also be supplemented by elevation of the arms, as this expands the thorax. (3) By means of a soft camel's hair brush swab out the interior of the nose freely with a mixture of equal parts of perchloride of iron and glycerine, especially in the region of the anterior nares and the inferior turbinated bone—parts, on account of their great natural vascularity, from which the bleeding is most likely to come. In most cases, I believe, this will be quite sufficient without plugging of any kind. (4) Plug the anterior nares; for this purpose use a long, narrow strip of lint, and a narrow-bladed dressing forceps, and pack the lint firmly into the anterior nares in all directions, leaving one end of the strip projecting a little way from the nostril. (5) As a last resort plug the posterior nares as well. For this purpose we require a plug of folded lint one inch long by half- an-inch wide, or the size of the last phalanx of the thumb, fixed by its centre to the middle of a long piece of strong cord, and aApplied Anatomy: 112 IjEllocq's sound or an ordinary gum elastic catheter. AVithdraw the stilette of the catheter, and then pass the catheter along the floor of the nose and hook it out through the mouth; tie the string firmly to the end of the catheter and then withdraw it, when the string will be brought out at the anterior nares. The catheter is then cut free and the plug drawn into and firmly impacted in the posterior nares; both ends of the cord are then tied together loosely at the angle of the mouth. If both nares require to be plugged, of course we will require two plugs. The plug is left in for forty-eight hours or so, and when it is to be removed it must be pulled back through the mouth; the string, however, should not be taken away till all the risk of recurrence seems past. Rhinoplasty.—Plastic operations for the complete restoration of lost or for the repair of mutilated noses. The flaps may be taken from—(a) The cheeks, (6) the forehead, or (c) from a distant part, as the inside of the arm. (1) From the Cheeks (Stme)—Either by gliding, or partial rotation leaving the flaps attached above. (2) From the Forehead (the Indian operation) — Here a properly-shaped flap is twisted down from the forehead, being left attached by a narrow pedicle; the incision on the right side is made lower than on the left to give it an easy twist, the flap being then turned to this side. The flap is supplied by the frontal artery and the supra-trochlear nerve, and it is important to make the pedicle of sufficient length to allow of its being twisted round without affecting the circulation through it. (3) From a distant part (the Italian or the Tagliacotian operation) —Tlie flap is taken usually from the left upper arm over the biceps muscle; the arm is bandaged up over the forehead, and the flap left attached by its base to the arm for a few da3'S till it has become organically connected with the nose. Other methods might be used as—(a) Superimposed, or double flaps, one flap being turned douui from tlie forehead M'ith its epithelial surface next the nasal fossae., and then two-quadrilateral door-like flaps slid over it from the cheeks, {h) Transplantation of a piece of skin from one part of the body to the other, the transplanted part being completely separated at the time of the operation; in this case, however, the flap runs a great risk of dyuig before it becomes adherent to the nose.Sitrgiail, Medical, and Operative. luHanuuatiou or ubscess iu the Frontal Sinuses causes much siiircring, from the uuyiekling walls of this cavity; it forms one variety of "headache," as seeu iu an ordinary cold. Discharges, as pus or lluid, from the frontal sinuses arc not iufluenced by position as arc the discharges from the antrum. Occasionally the frontal sinuses arc the seat of large mucous polypi-—mucocele of the frontal sinus. The polypi jnay give rise to considerable pro- minence of the bone in this situation, and may also bulge into the orbits, displacing the eyeballs, and causing double vision. In such a case, the sinus should be trephined, and the polypi removed, ^[ucous polypi from the nose may also make their way into the frontal sinuses. In examining the nose, for growths or obstructions of any kind, always pass a probe to sec whether the growth is luovable ; by this means one may distinguish hypertrophy of the mucous membrane of the inferior turbinate bone from polypi—the hypertrophy is not movable, while polypi are. It is necessary to use a speculum and I'ellected light to examine the nasal cavities, the head being thrown backwards and the tip of the nose elevated. One must not mistake lateral deviation of the septum for a tumour; its true nature will be recognised by observing that there is a hollow in one fossa corresponding to the projection iu the other. But if this is not the case, then it is a tumour of the septum. Polypi may be—(1) Mucous.—These usually grow from the mucous membrane of the outer Avail, especially over the inferior and middle turbinate bones: are yellowish grey in colour: are usually found in middle-aged persons, and are multiple: give rise to fits of sneezing and a nasal tone of voice and snoring at night, and are worse in damp weather; they do not, as a rule, cause deformity, nor do they give rise to liannorrhage. Occasionally, however, when numerous, they may cause marked deformity. They may make their Avay into the frontal sinus or orbit, and displace the eyeball considerably, giving rise to double vision. Under such circumstances, it will be necessary to open the orbital cavity at the inner side and remove the polypi. Structure.—Mucous polypi arc covered by a layer of beautifully ciliated, columnar epithelium. Below this there is a web of mucous connective tissue, and in the meshes of this welj there is a layer of branched mucous glands, * 11Applied Anatomy: 114 often of cousidcrable thickness. For this reason many prefer to call tliein adenomalom polypi, instead of mucous. The polypi also contain blood-vessels and lymphatics. The mucous tissue may become more highly developed, being transformed either into fat or fibrous tissue, or partly both. (2) Fibrous.—These usually grow from the periosteum of the naso-pharynx, Ijasi-s^jhenoid, or nasal roof, and are probably sarcomatous in nature; they occur earlier in life, are deep red in colour, single, with a broad base: they cause deformity, widely separating the eyes, and giving rise to "frog-face:" and, lastly, are frequently attended with severe epistaxis. (3) Malignant, usually begin from the antrimi (see "Diseases of the Antrum"). The chief clinical features of the case, besides the deformity produced, are obstruction of one or both of the fossae and bleeding. Polypi are also apt to press upon and obstruct the nasal duct, giving rise to one form of " watery eye." Bulging of the cheeks, ■widening of the eyes, broadening of the nose, are usually charac- teristic of malignant polypi. These signs are also more or less present in fibrous, and sometimes, though rarely, in the mucous forms — which, through repeated attempts at removal, tend to become fibrous in structure. It should be remembered that, by snuffing up 23owdered tannin or rectified spirit, mucous polyj)i may be made to disappear. Annandale's Operation for Naso - Pharyngeal Tumours.— Professor Annandale uses this operation for the removal of large naso-pharyngeal tumoiu's. The steps of the operation are the followmg:—(1) Preely expose the anterior uares by the separation of the upper lip from its attachments and by division of the nasal septum, as in Eouge's operation. (2) Next, saw through the hard palate, and if necessary divide the soft palate as well. (3) Forcibly separate the two superior maxillaj. (4) Eemove the growth by finger, forceps, etc. (5) Then plug antiseptically, and bring the hard and soft palates together again. The advantages of this operation are—(1) It produces no deformity ; (2) it forms the preliminary stage of a further operation, should it be deemed necessary to remove the whole or part of the upper jaw; and (3) the section being central, there is less bleeding.Surgicdl, Medical, a)id Operative. 115 Maligiuuit tumours of the iuitruui and U])pcr jaw graduiilly creep through the various t'oramiiui aud fissures of tlio haso of tlie skull, and encroach upon the nasal cavity, mouth, and orbit. Polypi must be diagnosed from—(1) TJiickeued mucous membrane over the inferior spongy bone; this is red, and cannot be moved with a probe. (\L) Abscess of the septum. (3) Deviation of the septum to one or other side; in this case there will be a hollow on the opposite side. (4) A meningocele, protruding through the roof of the nose. Ozasna is a term applied to cases where there is a purulent discharge from the nose, frontal, ethmoidal, or sphenoidal sinuses, and which has a specially offensive and penetrating odour. It is said to arise froin chronic atrophic rliinitis, with purulent secre- tion ; this dries and forms crusts witli a very offensive odour. It is usually bilateral; and if unilateral, is regarded as characteristic of empyema of the antrum. The crusts must be got rid of by sniffing up into the nostril, or spraying it with solutions of the alkaline carbonates or bicarbonates; and after this, local tonic, antiseptic, and soothing applications used. Ozieua may also be due to a foreign body introduced from without; in this case it will be unilateral, and the patient will smell the disagreeable odour with the sound nostril. It may also be due to injury, syphilis, and struma, or to the so-called " atrophic catarrh." Syphilitic ozjena is the only form that causes rapid destruction of the bones of the nose, although strumous inflammation may also cause destruction of the bones, but mnch more rarely. In cases of obstinate oztena, due to necrosis, in which the seijuestra cannot be removed through the nose. Rouge's operation may be adopted. In this operation the upper lip is everted, a transverse incision is made between the second bicuspid teeth of each side, and the soft tissues connecting the upper lip with the jaw divided; the cartilages are next separated, and the septum of the nose divided, with strong scissors, .sufficiently to allow the upper lip and nose to be pulled upwards far enough to expose the nasal cavity. vVfter this operation no scar is visible, as the skin is not divided. Perforation of the Septum of the nose may occur under four conditions—(1) In the scrofulous; (2) in syphilis, hereditary _or116 Applied Anatomy: acquired; (3) it may also exist as a congenital nialformatiou; and (4) is often found in tliose exposed to the vapour of chromic acid, in the manufacture of bichromate of potash—the " bichromate disease." In ordinary cases it begins as a simple pimple or pustule, which is picked and irritated so that an idcer is formed that gradually cats through the septum. Tumours and Swellings of the Septum.—(1) Ha-matomata are occasionally found, after an injury; (2) abscesses also occur, though rarely; (3) gummata are sometimes found beneath the perichondrium; (4) an osteoma may be met with; (5) adenomata are sometimes seen; and (6) also a curious tumour, composed of cartilage—ecchondrosis of the septal cartilage. The cartilages and septum are also aifected in Acromegaly and Leontiasis ossea. A Dermoid Cyst is sometimes met with at the side of the ]iose, in the position of the naso-maxillary iissure of the embryo. Chronic nasal catarrh, with hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, and polypi, are said to give rise to many reJlex nervous phenomena ■—as asthma, .spasmodic fits of sneezing and coughing, megrim, supra-orbital neuralgia, vaso-motor disturbances causing redness of the ti]) of the nose and cheeks, herpes labialis, vertigo, and epilepsy. On the anterior end of the inferior tm'binate bone, there is a layer of erectile tissue, and it has been supposed that turgescence of this tissue is sutlicient to account for many of tlie above phenomena. If this be so, then the cure is to be found in painting the part with a solution of cocaine, or else destroying the hypertrophicd, congested, and sensitive mucous membrane witli the galvano-cautery. Cases have also been observed in which intra- nasal operations, undertaken for the relief of uasal obstruction, have led, very rmexpectedly, to the diminution, or even disappearance, of the symptoms of Graves's disease. THE ANTRUM. The antrum of IIighmoke, or the maxillary sinus, is a large triangular-shaped cavity, hollowed out in the body of the superior maxilla. Its apex is directed outwards, aud its base is formed by the outer wall of the nose. Its roof is very thin, and is formed by the orbital plate of the maxilla; its floor is formed by the alveolar process, its ;intcrior wall by the facial, and its posteriorSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 117 by the zygomatic surface. Its aperture is near the u]-)per level of the cavity, and communicates with the middle meatus of tlie nose, the position of the opening being about the centre of the middle meatus, and one inch above the floor of the nasal cavity; the opening here is sufficiently large to admit the end of a small probe, and in some cases is much larger. Projections into the floor are made by the fangs of the first and second molar teeth usually, but others may also project into it, from the canine to the wisdom, inclusive. The fangs of the first molar may lie free in the cavity, being simply covered by the mucous membrane. A growth in the cavity may, therefore, readily encroach upon the orbit above, displacing the eyeball and giving rise to double yision unilateral optic neuritis, and severe neuralgia, from pressure on the infra-orbital nerve; the nose, on the inner side, closing up that cavity and also obstructing the nasal duct of the same side, causing " stillicidium lachrymarum ;" in front, causing a projection on the cheek; behind, into the zygomatic fossa ; and downwards, into the floor of the mouth. The antrum should always be first examined in any supposed tumour of the upper jaw. Diseases of this Cavity.—1. Tumours—(a) Malignant often begin in the antrum, such as sarcomata, and a very rapidly-growing form of epithelioma—the "boring epithelioma;" the Surgeon must be on his guard, as a sarcoma of the upper jaw may at first cause symptoms resembling toothache, the patient thinks, or neuralgia. Epithelioma may also simulate caries or necrosis. (&) Simple, such as enchondroma, fibroma, osteoma, etc. 2. Suppuration and Abscess—This may arise from—(a) In- flammation spreading from the nose and blocking up the opening of the antrum, leading to tension and abscess; (6) from disease of the teeth, as suppuration of the fangs of the bicuspids or first molars; (c) in weak debilitated strumous children, after fevers, etc., and in such cases there is often disease of the bone as well; and {(1) it may arise from injury. If the opening is not blocked up, then tlie pus may overflow into the nostril, especially, when tlie patient lays the sound side of tlie head flat on a pillow; but if llu! opening be blocked up, it will most probably point at the upper part, under the orbit, or through tlie thin canine fossa, lower down.Applied A natomy: 118 3. Dropsy. — The cavity eitliRv becomes slowly filled with a glairy fliiiil like that found in rannla, or it may he thin-and serous. It is not duo to the blocking up of the orifice into the nose, but from a cystic degeneration of the mucous membrane, resembling somewhat the ordinary mucous polyijus of the nose, the cavity being filled by several small cysts, or by one large growth. When it was believed to be an accumulation of fl.uid resulting from a closed orifice, then the operation of " catheterisation " of the antrum "was advised; this, as might be expected, from the erroneous pathology, was not followed by any benefit to the patient. A not unfrequent sign of this condition is a constant or intermittent trickling of watery fluid from one nostril, increased when the head lies on the opposite side; on examination it is found that the nasal fossa itself is quite clear. 4. " Dentigerous " Cysts. — These arise in connection with a misplaced, a too-deeply placed, or an inverted permanent tooth, usually an upper permanent canine. They may be recognised by the absence of a tooth from its proper place in the jaw, the globular or ovoid outline of the tumour and the gradual, painless growth; the cyst contains a thick, mucilaginous, or serous fluid containing cholesterine plates. In some cases, however, the corresponding milk tooth may not be shed, so that the Surgeon must be on liis guard not to be misled by the mere number of teeth. The fang of the tooth is usually in its socket, but the crown lies in a cavity filled with the enamel pulp and covered by a layer of epithelium which secretes the fluid. This arrest of development will, so far, be understood by a reference to the development of the enamel from the enamel organ and dental sac. This organ consists of— (1) A layer of epithelium next'the wall of the sac; (2) the enamal pulp, consisting of jelly-like mucous tissue; (3) a layer of undif- ferentiated cells; and (4) the internal epithelium, Avhich ultimately develops into the enamel prisms. The proper Treatment for these cysts is to remove a part of the wall, turn out the contents, and stufl" the cavity, in order to make it heal from the bottom upwards. In tapping fluid collections in the antrum—(1) The upper lip may be everted and an opening made through the thin canine fossa just above the second bicuspid tootli. (2) By extracting the first molar, as this tooth is very often carious; but the bicupsids,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 119 if diseased, may Ije taken instead. Tlio first molar is a specially perishable tooth, and, therefore, likely to be less missed than the others j but remove any cariotis tooth. Do not try to perforate in the site of an old extracted tooth, as the walls of the socket will have come together, or the cavity be filled up with dense bone. (3) The antrum may be perforated through the outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose; this was John Hunter's plan (1771), and has recently been revived by Mickulicz and others. CRANIAL NERVES. The Facial Nerve (portio dura of seventh).—This is tlie motor nerve of the face. Its deep origin is from the formatio reticularis on the dorsal aspect of the pons at the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and from the lenticular nucleus of the opposite side; the fibres of the portio intermedia can be traced into the glosso-pharyngeal nucleus. It enters the internal auditory meatus to the inner side of and above the auditory (portio mollis). At the bottom of the meatus it enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, traverses that canal, and makes its exit at the stylo-mastoid foramen (Fig. 152). In the bone it first passes outwards then hackivards, forming the knee-shaped bend, where there is a gangliform enlarge- ment (the genicidate ganglion), and after this it passes straight down to the stylo-mastoid foramen. It then divides in the parotid gland into temporo-faeial and cervico-facial divisions; these, by a series of divisions and anastomoses, form the p>es anserinus, from which branches pass to supply the muscles of expression. Branches.—In the meatus it communicates with the auditory nerve. In the actueduct—(a) The great superficial petrosal nerve from the ganglion, passing out at the hiatus Fallopii, grooving the anterior surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, then running underneath the fifth nerve and Gasserian ganglion, it is joined by a twig from the sympathetic (carotid plexus), and after this is known as the Vidian nerve, which partly passes through the foramen lacerum medius into the Vidian canal, and enters Meckei/h ganglion, of which it forms the motor root, and is dis- trilnited to the azygos uviilre and levator palati muscles, (b) The small superficial petrosal, also from the ganglion. It takes a course similar to the last, but passes out at the foramen ovale and entersSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 121. the otic (lancilion, to which it conducts the secretory fibres for the parotid gland, {c) Next in order is the external snperficial petrosal, which joins the facial, from the sympathetic plexus on the middle meningeal artery, {d) Next comes the tympanic branch to supply the stapedius muscle and the laxator tympani; and lastly, (e) the chorda tympani, which is given oif just before the nerve makes its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. This nerve has already been seen in the middle ear, after Avhich it passes through the canal of HuGUiER and joins the lingual branch of the fifth at an acute angle between the two pterygoid muscles, and passes with that nerve to the tongue, forming the nerve of taste to the anterior two thirds; it is also secretory to the sublingual and the submaxillary glands. After the nerve has left the bone, it gives off—(a) The posterior auricular branch, which supplies the skin and posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle; (6) a branch supplying the stylo- hyoid and posterior belly of the digastric; and (c) branches from the pes, six in number, supplying the muscles of expression from the brow to the chin—including the buccinator. These muscles are situated around the cavities of the orbit, nose, and mouth. The six branches are—(1) The temporal, to the anterior belly of the occipito frontalis; (2) the malar, to the muscles round eye; (3) the ivfra-orhital, to the muscles about the nose; (4) the buccal, to the orbicularis oris and buccinator; (5) the supra-mctxillari/, to lower lip and chin; and (6) the infra-w.axillarij, to platysma, etc. The buccinator ("truvipeter's muscle") may receive twigs from the buccal branch of the third division of the fifth, although many anatomists regard this as a purely sensory nerve; it is a muscle of mastication as well as of expression; its expressive powers are fully brought out in playing the French horn, and other instruments of a similar nature, and in saying "Pooh/" It will be noticed therefore that the muscle that opens the eye is supplied by the third nerve (levator palpebrce), while the muscle that shuts the eye (orbicu- laris palpebrarum) is supplied by the facial. In superficial ulcerations of the cornea, as i^hlycteuular ophthalmia (strumous) where photophobia is so prominent a symptom, the orbicularis is spasmodically contracted (blepharospasm) by the reflex irrita- tion sot up ])y stimulation of the teruiina] filaments of the first122 Applied Anatomy: division of the fifth in iho, inflamed area, or of the optic nerve, bj' the light. Paralysis of this nerve may he caused by parotitis, rapidly growing tumours and abscesses of the parotid, or of the cervical glands, herpes zoster, wounds of the cheek, operative or otherwise, forceps in child birth; it may also be caused quite suddenly by exposure to cold ("Bell's paralysis") rheumatic inflammation of the nerve or its sheath, disease of the middle ear, and periostitis from various causes. It may be paralysed at its root by a blood clot in the pons; it is also usually affected in hemiplegia. Syphilitic and other tumours may also affect its origin, and it is one of the nerves involved in " Bulbar paralysis." Occasionally it may be the earliest symptom of tubercular meningitis (Eagge). It may be paralysed— 1. At OP after its Exit from the Stylo-Mastoid Foramen.— This is, properly speaking, " Bell's paralysis." The signs are— («) The wrinkles disappear from the brow, giving it a smoother appearance than the other side. (Z^) The eyelids cannot be closed (larjojplitliahnos or Hare's eye). {c) The lower lid falls down, and the punctum is drawn away from the globe; hence, the tears run over the cheek, {d) The nostrils cannot be dilated, (e) The mouth and face are drawn, towards the sound side. (/) The buccinator is paralysed, and the food passes between the teeth and the cheek; further, the cheek is flabby and falls in and may be caught by the teeth, (r/) The patient cannot Avhistle or laugh properly, and the angle of the mouth is depressed and drawn to the sound side, {h) The posterior belly of the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles are paralysed. 2. It may be paralysed in the Petrous Bone, as in disease of the middle ear, fracture of the base, etc. A case is mentioned by Mr Hutchinson, where paralysis of this nerve was caused by a blow from a cricket ball on the chin, probably from fracture of the petrous bone. In this case the signs will vary with the height at which the nerve is affected; they will be given here, from below upwards. In addition to the previous symptoms, Ave will there- fore have—(a) Loss of taste in the anterior two thirds of the tongue, because the chorda tympani is paralysed. Tlie food tastes salt, or a sour or metallic taste may be felt, and the person is128 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. unal)le to detect sweet or saline tastes. Taste Ncems to he aflected when the olfactory norve is paralysed ; this is not becanse it is actually affected, but because the power of distinguishing flavours is lost, so that one is unable to tell an apple from an onion. (/*) The sense of hearing will be aflected, us the stapedius muscle is paralysed. There is usually increased sensibility for all musical notes or sounds, and the patient can detect sounds of a very low pitch; or may seem subjectively to hear acute sounds (oxyakoia), because the stapedius is paralysed, and hence the tensor tympani keeps the membrane too much on the stretch. (c) The mouth will be dry, because the salivary glands are not secreting (the lower two by the chorda, the parotid through the small superficial petrosal). This is known as " dry mouth," or xorodomia. (d) The palate falls down on the paralysed side, because the levator and azygos uvulse muscles are paralysed (through the great superficial petrosal), and the uvula points towards the healthy side. 3. The Paralysis may be Central, that is, in the brain. In this case, curiously enough, the uiiper part of the face usually escapes— the brow and the muscles collected round the orifice of the orbit. This is probably because of the fasciculus of fibres that arise from the opposite side. Another important difference is, that in central or cerebral lesions the electrical reactions are the same as in health; whereas, when the paralysing lesions are in the course of the nerve, we very quickly get the " reaction of degeneration." It is often stated, in cases where this nerve is paralysed, that the tongue is also affected. This I believe to be a time-honoured misunder- standing. It certainly seems to go to one side, but this is becanse the mouth is not in the middle line in facial paralysis, and hence the tongue, even when put out quite straight, is nearer the paralysed than the healthy side. The Facial Nerve is at fault in cases of "histrionic spasm," or actor's paralysis, which consists of an almost constant twitching of the muscles of the face. To cure this condition the nerve has })een stretched. Operation.—i\Iakc an incision from the root of the mastoid process d(jwnwards and forwards to near the angle of the lower jaw, and expose the anterior border of the process and tlie anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and turn the parotid gland forwards.124 Applied Anatomy: Next define the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric; the nerve runs parallel to this, and will be found emerging from under the mastoid process. Meckel's, or the Spheno-Palatine Ganglion—This structure is deeply placed in the spheuo-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- palatine foramen, on a level with the root of the pterygoid processes, and immediately below the superior maxillary nerve. Roots.—1. The Sensory, from the second division of the fifth, as it lies immediately above it, crossing the spheno-maxillary fossa. 2. The Sympathetic, from the carotid plexus through the Vidian. 3. The Motor, from the facial (great superficial petrosal J, through the Vidian also. The ganglion may be most readily exposed by removing the upper jaAv, and it is probably always exposed in that operation. It will be found in the spheno-maxillary fossa, imme- diately in front of the Vidian canal, and connected with the Vidian nerve. It may also be reached by Carnochan's operation: The anterior wall of the antrum is exposed, and a large, trephine hole made; next expose the infra-orbital nerve by cutting away the lower Avail of the infra-orbital canal, and follow it up to the posterior wall of the antrum. Then just under this make a small trephine hole in the posterior wall, isolate the nerve, and follow its descending branches to Meckel's ganglion. Lastly, divide the main nerve close to the foramen rotundum, and remove it along with the ganglion. After this, of course, the levator palati and the azygos uvula? of that side are permanently paralysed. Its Branches are motor to the levator palati and the azygos uvula* muscles, and also to the muscle of Muller ; for the rest, it is sensory to the nose, pharynx, and palate. Cases of intractable epileptiform neuralgia have been greatly benefited, or even cured, by excision of this ganglion. The Second Division of the Fifth (s/qjerior maxillary nervej.— It arises from the Gasserian ganglion, leaves the skull by passing through the foramen rotundum into the spheno-maxillarj^ fossa, crosses that fossa and enters the orbit through a fissure of the same name, and then enters a canal on the floor of the orbit, appearing on the face at the infra-orbital foramen, where it divides, beneath the levator labii superioris, into palpeljral, nasal, and labial brandies. It is purely a sensory nerve. Its branches in the fossa are—Surgical, l)fedical, and Operative. 125 ((/) orbital or loiiiporo-malar, {li) spheuo-palatiuc to j\[KCKnr/iS ganglion, ami (r;) posterior dental to tlic teeth of tlic upper jaw. In the infra-orbital canal it gives oil' the anterior dental brauchcH. In deep-seated affections of the cornea and iris the pain is sometimes retlected along this nerve, allccting the upper jaw through its dental branches, and the temporal region along its orbital l)ranch. A blister in the temporal region sometimes benefits eye atlections, probaljly by acting through this nerve as a connter-irritant. This nerve may be affected with neuralgia from unknown causes, or from diseases of the teeth in the upper jaw; and from malignant tumours of the antrum, or the spheno-maxillary fossa. It appears on the face three times—(1) as tlie infm-orhifal; (2) as the temj>oral, in the temporal fossa; and (3) over the malar bone, as the ruiaus snb- cntancoKS mahp. The Third Division of the Fifth fhi/eriur maxillanj).—'\W>i is the largest division, and, like the last, it arises from the Gasseriau ganglion, leaves the skull through the foramen ovale, and is tlicn joined by the motor root of the fifth, and thereafter divides into a small or anterior division, chiefly motor in function, and a large or pusterior division, chiefly sensor}". From the anterior division proceed—(a) the masseteric nerve to the masseter muscle, and some- times a twig to the temporo-maxillary articulation.; [h) two deep temporals to the temporal muscle; (c) branches to the two pterygoids; and, lastly {il) the long buccal nerve. The nerve to the internal pterygoid furnishes the motor root to the otic ganglion, and througli that to the two tensors—tensor j^alati and tensor tympani. The hiic'-td nerve is sensory to the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane and skin of the cheek, and man liossihlij contain motor filaments; it also communicates with the facial nerve. This divi.sion, it will be noted, supplies the muscles of mastication. From tlie posterior division come—(n) the auriculo-temporal—this nei"ve also supplies the joint of the lower jaw and the external auditory meatus; {h) tlie inferior dental; and (c) the gustatory, or lingual, nerve. From the lingual comes the mylo-hyoid nerve, which supplies the mylo-hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of tlie digastric. When this division of the fifth is paralysed the following muscles are alfecteil—the massctei', the temporal, external and internal pterygoids, the mylo-hyoid, and the anterior belly ofApplied Anatomy: 12G the digastric, and Lastly, the teusor tympani and the tensor palati. This third division appears on tlie face three times—(1) as the mental hranch, over the chin; (2) as the auriculo-temporal; and (3) as the lung huccal, on the cheek. The Otic Ganglion (Arnold's).—This ganglion lies immediately below the foramen ovale, on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and round the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, and in front of the middle meningeal artery. Its roots are—(a) Motor, from the internal pterygoid nerve (third division of fifth), -which is the guide to the ganglion, and through Mdiich it supplies the tensor palati and tensor tympani muscles; {h) Sensory, from the auriculo-temporal; {<■) Siimpatlietlc, frojn the plexus on the middle meningeal artery; and {d) it also com- municates with the facial and glosso-pharyngeal through the small supei'ficial petrosal. Its secretory fibres probably come from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve), rda the small superficial petrosal and auriculo-temporal nerves, and the otic ganglion. This nerve may be affected with " idiopathic " neuralgia, in disease of the teeth of the lower jaw, in ulcers of the tongue, in epithehoma of the tongue, and in the eruption of the lower wisdom teeth, and in tetanus; in irritable sores about the tongue, and in the eruption of the wisdom teeth, the muscles that close the jaws may be thrown into spasm reflexly, and simulate "lock-jaw." Spasm of the muscles of the jaw is often an early symj^tom in true tetanus, and is known as " trismus," or " locked jaw." The mental branch is often affected m fractures of the lower jaw. To Expose this Ganglion necessitates the dissection of the Pterygo-Maxillary Region.—(1) Clear out the parotid gland and the structures in it (see vol. ii., p. 95). (2) Eemove structures on the masseter—(«) Part of the parotid gland and socia, {h) Stbxson's duct, (c) the transverse facial artery and veins, (d) the facial vein, (e) branches of facial nerve and great auricular, and (/) the risorius muscle and some lymphatic glands. (3) Eemove the two layers of temporal fascia above the zygoma, and saw through that bone in front and behind, and throw it doAvu with the masseter muscle. (4) Snip off the coronoid process and throw it up along with the temporal muscle, and then saw through the ascending ramus, firstSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 127 iit the ucck of the contlyh;, aud again at ilic levtil of tlic molar toeth. This now exposes the Jirst aud second parts of the internal maxillary artery, the two pterygoid muscles, and the chief branches of the third division of the fifth. (5) Xow disarticulate the condyle of the jaw and throw it forwards with the external pterygoid muscle, when the foramen ovale, the trunk of the third division of the fifth, and the chorda tympani nerves are all exposed. Lastly, secure the nerve to the internal i^terygoid muscle, and trace it up to the ganglion. The Eighth Pair consists of three divisions, and which all come from nuclei in the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. 1. The Glosso-Pharyngeal.—This nerve supplies the posterior third of the tongue with ordinary sensation and Avitli the sense of taste. It also supplies the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and helps to supply the constrictors of the pharynx; it further supjjlies the tonsil, and gives oft" Jacouson's nerve.to the tympanum. Its relations to diseases of the tongue aud tonsil have been already seen. 2. The Vagus, or Pneumogastric, is principally distributed to the lungs and respiratory j^iissages, the heart, and the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach. Its branches are— {a) Arnold's nerve, which is the nerve of common sensa- tion to the back of the auricle and external auditory meatus—the " .llderman's nerve." {I)) The jDharyngeal branch helps to form the pliarnygeal l^lexus and supply the constrictors. ((;) The superior laryngeal, sensory to the larynx and root of the tongue at the base of the epiglottis, aud motor to the crico - thyroid muscle, and probably half the arytenoid; it can also inhibit inspiration and excite expiration, and reflexly cause spasm of the glottis. ('/) The cervical cardiac branches, sensory nerves of tlie heart (^'deprestsur nerve"), also vaso-inhibitory to the blood-vessels of the abdomen—this nerve is probably much aftected in "shock." {e) The recurrent laryjigeal, motor to all the muscles of the larnyx not supplied by the superior. (/) The inferior cardiac, inhibitory of the heart.128 Applied Anatomy {(j) The pulmonary brandies, motor to the Lroncliial muscles, and excito-motor for respiration. {h) Oesophageal branches (plexus gulic). {!) The gastric branches—motor, sensory, secretory, and vaso-iuhibitory. In severe liead injuries, a not uncommon complication is pneu- monia, probably because the vagus is in some way interfered Avith, and hence also the vomiting, thirst, and sleeplessness. In shock this is the nerve first aflected, and then, through this, to the heart and abdominal bldod-vessels; the heart quickly recovers, but the paresis of the abdominal and other vessels may last some time, and keep i;p tlic condition of collapse. The vagus has extensive communications Avith the great sympathetic Jierve plexuses of the abdomen, and it is in this Avay that vomiting is caused in strangulated hernia. This nerve is the most remarkable nerve in the Avhole body. It supplies the liver, spleen, and kidney, probably the ovaries, uterus, and testicles; the right nerve ending, I believe, at the point of the penis, supplying the glans. It is probably in this Avay that crushes of the kidney and testicle arc so often followed by A^omiting; the connection of the nerve Avith the ovaries and uterus may explain to a certain extent the vomiting of pregnancy, the globus hystericus, etc. Certain it is that the vagus is the nerve most intimately connected Avith emotions, whether of joy or sorroAv, and very probably, from its effect on the heart, some have been said to die of a " broken heart," and others from excess of joy, from the too great efiect on the inhibitory centre. In concussion of the upper part of the cord, the vagus is often affected, producing a sense of suffocation, irregular action of the heart, and vomiting. Strong counter ii'ritation applied over the course of the vagi, between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaAV, has been found of great service in cholera, and has also acted like magic in cases of Avhooping-cough (Tnglott). 3. The Spinal Accessory.—This is purely a motor nerve, and supplies the trapezius and sterno-mastoid; it also giA^es motor fibres to the vagus for the pharynx and larynx. The inlribitory nerve of the heart also comes from this nerve, and enters the vagus through the upper ganglion. This nerve is also affected in certain forms of " Torticollis."Surgical, Medico/, and Operaiive. 120 Hypoglossal Nerve (ninth, Motor LiiKjua;).—It arises from tlio fourth vciitriele, near the point of the calamus scriptorius, Iseueath the fascicuhis teres. It leaves the skull, often in two bundles, through the anterior condyloid foramen, and then lies at first behind the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, next it passes between the artery and the vein, hooks round the occipital, and crosses the- external carotid artery, and passes beneath the digastric and mylo-hyoid muscles to the tongue. Its Branches are—{a) Descenclens noni, which forms a loop (ansa hypoglossi) with the commimicans noni, and supplies both bellies of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid muscles; (5) a special branch to the thyro-hyoid; (c) branches to the genio- hyoid, genio-hyoglossus, the hyoglossus, and the styloglossus; and lastly, it su])plies the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. In Paralysis of this nerve the tongue is pushed to the paralysed side. In long standing cases the paralysed half of the tongue atrophies; and this will take place, not only when the root of the nerve is affected, but also in pressure on its trunk—e.g., in the anterior condyloid foramen. In the disease known as Glosso-labio-laryngeal Paralysis (Bulbar paralysis) the deep origins of the hypoglossal, facial, spinal accessory, and the pneumogastric nerves — and probably also the glosso-pliaryngeal—are affected; hence the progressive loss of power of the muscles of the tongue, soft palate, pharynx, larynx, and in the orbicularis oris. The disease consists in de- generation and atrophy of the large nerve cells in the anterior horns of the upper part of the cord, and the cells in series with these in the medulla, forming the deep origin of the above- mentioned nerves. The nerves specially affected in Hydrophobia appear to be the deep origins of the hypoglossal, glosso-pharyngeal and vagus, and neighbouring parts of the medulla. In Tetanus the spinal cord is specially affected, together with the motor part of the fifth, the facial and spinal accessory. The hypoglossal may also be paralysed by sudden and forcible bending forwards of the head, as in leaping, when the nerve is probably crushed at the anterior condyloid foramen. It may also be affected by fractures through the foramen, or by disease involving it, e.rj., caries or necrosis.130 Applied Anatomy: LYMPHATICS. Of the Head.—The student must remember that, in a general way, the course of the lympliatics is very similar to that of the veins, both superficial and deep, and when thinking therefore of the probable source of any given glandular enlargement, he has only to think where the veins near the glands come from, in order to reach the irritating focus; or conversely, when a malignant tumour is discovered in a given situation, he has only to think of the course of the veins, which will, as a rule, lead him to the enlarged glands. I do not think that, the spread through the lymphatics is merely a mechanical washing along the stream, of "juices" or cells, for there can be little doubt that the spread is sometimes against the stream; and this fact seems to lend support to the theory that malignant tumours have a microbic origin, for only life can go against the stream. The Glands of the head consist of two groups—{a) The occipital at the back of the head, along the attachment of the occipito- frontalis; {h) the auricular, near the upper end of the sterno- mastoid. They receive the lymphatics from the posterior and middle vertical zones of the head; the vessels follow the course of these occipital and posterior auricular veins. These glands will be enlarged in cases of disease affecting the scalp in these zones— as pediculi, impetigo contagiosum, favus, and eczema. The Face.—The glands of the face, in front of the ear, are— Tlie parotid, placed on the surface of that gland, and a few deeply in its substance; one or two, just under the zygoma; the buccal, on the buccinator muscle; and the submaxillary, set just beloM' the body of the lower jaw, underneath the cervical fascia. The parotid receive the lymphatics from the anterior vertical zone of the head, the vessels following the course of the temporal veins to the front of the ear, and after passing througli the superficial parotid glands, join the submaxillary group. These glands will therefore be enlarged in conditions like those already enumerated, and by boils about the upper eyelid, epitheliomatous sores in this region, septic scalp wounds, and erysij)elas. There are also a few glands along the middle line of the neck, from the chin to the sternum, l.)ut especially toAvards the upper part.Siirg-uai, Medical, and Operative. 131 The superficial lymphatics of the fixce accompany the cor- responding veins, especially the facial, pass through the glands on the surface of the buccinator (buccal), and thence to the large submaxillary group. The submaxillary group receives the lymphatics of the rest of the face directly, including the lips, and are therefore affected in inflammatory and malignant diseases of the lips—as boils, epithelioma, hard chancre, herpes, malignant carbuncle, antlu-ax, cancrum oris, and actinomycosis. The deep lymphatics of the face come from the mucous membrane of the nose, mouth, and pharynx and orbital fossa, accompanying the internal maxillary vein, and end in the deep parotid set of glands, and thence to the submaxillary and deep cervical groups. These glands will therefore be affected in malignant disease, simple inflammation, and septic and specific conditions of these parts—as malignant tumours of the nose, jaws, and tonsils, strumous inflammation of the nasal cavities, cancerous ulcers of the inside of the cheek, chronic inflamma- tion of the faucial, pharyngeal, or lingual tonsils, coupled, no doubt, with the entrance of specific organisms, and in caries of the teeth. The Neck.—The superficial glands are placed along the course of the external jugular vein, between the platysma and the sterno- mastoid; they are, however, most numerous at the lower part of the posterior triangle, and from thence they are connected with the axillary glands, and also receive communications from the occipital and posterior auricular gimips of the head. The deep glands form a chain along the inner side of the carotid sheath, between it and the pharynx, cesophagus, and trachea, and extend from the base of the skull to the thorax. Above, they receive the intra-cranial lymphatics, and below, they communicate with the glands in the thorax; the vessels finally converge and empty into the right lymphatic ducts on the right side, and the thoracic duct on the left. It will be noted, therefore, that there are two possible ways in which the glands at the root of the neck may be affected in cancer of the mamma—from the axillary glands, or from those in the posterior mediastinum. The lymphatics from the larynx enter the deep cervical glands, as well as those of the cesophagus and pharynx.Applied A natoviy: 132 It will Toe seen, therefore, that the glands of the neck may be enlarged from a variety of causes, of which the following are a few:— 1. Epithelioma and chancre of the lips and tongue, 2. Cancrum oris, charbon, and carbuncle of lips and face. 3. Diseases of the nose, orbit, mouth, and pharynx— inflammatory and malignant. 4. Diseases of the scalp—as pediculi, eczema, impetigo contagiosum, epithelioma, etc. .5. Carbuncle in the occipital region. 6. Secondary syphilis. 7. Chronic inflammatory affections of the tonsils. 8. Caries of the teeth. 9. Strumous inflammation. 10. Simple lymphoma, lympho-sarcoma, and lymphadenoma, and probably leueocythaimia. 11. Otorrhcea. 12. Malignant disease of the larynx, pharynx, and ccsophagus. Wry Neck—Torticollis, or Caput Obstipum.—Causes—(1) It may be congenital, or it may follow measles or scarlatina. In the congenital form, the face on the same side develops less rapidly than on the other side, the eye becomes oblique, and the cervical spine curved. (2) Long-continued irritation, as from inflamed cervical glands under the sterno-mastoid; in this case the position is taken up no doubt to lessen direct pressure on the glands, but also from reflex contraction due to the irritation of the branches of the cervical plexus. (3) Disease of the cervical vertebrae (caries) and their ligaments. (4) Traction from the cicatrix of a burn. (5) Clonic or tonic contraction of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius of the same side, from irritation of the spinal accessory, or it may even be due to contraction of the platysma. (6) Paralysis of the opposite sterno-mastoid. In wry neck there is a threefold displacement of the head—(1) It is drawn downwards towards the sternum; (2) it is rotated from the affected side, so that the chin points over the opposite shoulder; and (3) it is inclined laterally to the affected side. As a cure for some forms of wry neck, it has been proposed to stretch the spinal accessory nerve; but this operation is hardly ever followed by any permanentSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 133 bcucfit, and if it is to be interfered witli at all, it is better to cut it right tlirougli, or even to remove an inch or so out of the trunlc of the nerve. Division of the sterno-mastoid is also practised for tlie relief of this deformity. To Stretch the Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve leaves the cranium, in the same sheath of dura mater as the vagus, by the jugular foramen, and after having jiassed through, is found lying, Avith the otlier divisions of the eighth pair, between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery. It then passes downwards and backwards either in front of or behind the internal jugidar vein, and appears below the posterior belly of the digastric, and close to, but beloAV, the transverse process of the atlas, and enters the deej) surface of the sterno-mastoid. The great land-mark for this operation is the prominent transverse jirocess of the first cervical vertebra. In this region it may be exposed, and stretched or cut, by an incision along the upper ]3art of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, commencing an inch below the mastoid process, and carried downwards for two or three inches. By dividing the superficial structures, and defining the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and then defining the transverse jjrocess of the first cervical vertebra, the nerve will be found emerging from below the posterior belly of the digastric, curving round the process above indicated, from before backwards and downwards, and entering the deep surface of the former muscle. The incision must not be carried too far up, lest the external jugular vein (which lies midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process) or the parotid gland be injured. The nerve is also crossed by the occipital artery, probably also by the sterno-mastoid artery. Division of the Sterno-Mastoid.—The nervous supply of this muscle is in great part the spinal accessory nerve, but it also receives branches from the second cervical nerve through the cervical plexus; the second cervical communicates with the spinal accessory, and also with the superficial cervical and great auricular branches of the third cervical nerve. Any irritation therefore in the region of distribution of these nerves, as infiamed glands, will readily throw the sterno-mastoid into contraction refloxly; the same thing will also occur in disease of the upper three cervicalApplied Anatomy: 134 vertebrae. The part whicli most frequently requires divLsiou is the sternal head, but both heads may be divided. In doing so it is well to bear in mind the proxiniity of important structures, e.g., the internal jugular vein, and several veins passing to join it, lie behind the muscle, opposite the interval between its two heads, and if care be not taken the operation may be followed by a fatal result; further, the external jugular vein is often close to its onto.r border, and the anterior jugular at its inner. The incision should be made from behind forwards, close to the sternum, and along the clavicle, and if this be done, there is little risk of doing any damage; the tension of the muscle tends to make it project forwards, and away from the carotid sheath. The following method is that recommended by Erichsen :—Por the sternal head make a puncture on the inner side of the tendon Avith a sharp scalpel, and then push a narrow director behind the muscle, and after that pass an ordinary tenotome between the director and the tendon flatwise, turn it and then cut forwards. In dividing the clavicular insertion make a puncture with a scalpel upon and down to the clavicle in the space between the two heads of the muscle, and then push a blunt-pointed, narrow- bladed tenotome between that bone and the insertion of the muscle, and cut forwards, or a director may be used as in the last case. In children the muscle may also be divided about its centre by passing a tenotome behind the muscle, from Avithout inwards, putting it on the stretch and then cutting forwards. The Deep Fascia of the Neck.—This is attached behind to the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrte It splits to enclose the trapezius muscle, and then the two layers join to form the roof of the posterior triangle of the neck; it again splits to enclose the sterno-mastoid and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and then unites across the middle line with the fascia of the opposite side. This layer is attached — above, to the base of the lower jaw, the zygoma, mastoid process, the sui^erior curved line and the protuberance of the occipital bone; below, to the upper and posterior part of the manubrium sterni, clavicle, acromion process, and spine of scapula. If pus forms beneath this layer, it will in all probability find its way into the anterior mediastinum, or else bag oyer the sternum.135 Surgical, Medica/, and Operative. From the deep surface of this hiyer, as it cusheaths the sterno- inastoid, a strong process passes inwards across the neck, and forms the carotid sheath, and then passes in front of the pre-vertebral muscles, but behind the pharynx and oesophagus, to unite with the layer of the opposite side. This part is attached above to various points at the base of the skull, and specially to the angle of the lower jaw and the styloid process, and the part intervening between these two points is known as the sti/lo-maxillary ligament, which separates the parotid from tlie submaxillary gland. As this layer passes down, it divides into two parts. One is placed beneath the depressors of the hyoid bone, invests the thyroid body and at the sides is attached to the first rib and binds down the central tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle to that bone, Avhile the central part passes down in front of the trachea and large vessels and becomes con- tinuous with the fibrous pericardium. The other layer passes into the thorax in front of the pre-vertebral muscles but behind the cesophagus. If pus form in front of the former it will most likely find its way into the axilla at the side, or anterior mediastinum in front; if behind it, it will gravitate towards the apex of the pleura and lung at the sides, or middle mediastinum in front; if it form beneath the latter division, it will tend to pass into the posterior mediastinum.130 Applied Anatoiny: CHAPTER XXXI. THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The more important points aloout the surface Anatomy have already been indicated when speaking about fractures and dis- locations. I would only point out the groove on each side of the biceps in the upper arm: the outer one corresponds pretty closely to the course of the cephalic vein, and the inner to the brachial artery and the basilic vein. On tlie outer side the groove is continued upwards between the pectoralis major and the deltoid; in this part of the groove we find (1) the cephalic vein, (2) the humeral branch of the thoracic axis, and (3) at its upper end one or two lymphatic glands which communicate both over and under the clavicle with glands in the base of the posterior triangle. THE AXILLA. In describing this space, note—(a) Position.—It is a space between the upper part of the arm and the upper part of the side of the chest. (&) Shape.—In shape it resembles a four-sided pyramid, but the sides are not equal — the inner side is much larger than the outer, and the posterior wall extends further down than the anterior, (c) Boundaries.—The liase is formed by the integuments and the strong axillary fascia: the aiKx is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, and corresponds to an interval between the first rib, clavicle, and upper border of the scapula, and is triangular in shape. The anterior wall is formed by the pectoralis major and minor: behind are the sub- scapularis, latissimus dorsi and teres major: to the inner side, the upper five or six ribs with their intercostal muscles, and the ujiper part of serratus maguus: the outer wall is formed by the coraco-Surgical, Medical, and Operative. In'acliitilis, short licad of l)iceps, aud head and uuck ol' liuincius. ((/) The Contents:— 1. The axiUary artery and its branches. 2. The axillary vein and its tributaries. 3. The brachial plexus of nerves and its infra-clavicular branches. 4. Lymphatic glands, fat, and areolar tissue. 5. Lateral cutaneous branches of the upper three or four intercostal nerves. G. x^erve of Bell. 1. Glands of the Axilla.—The lympliatic glands of the axilla are arranged in three sets—(1) One group lies along the sub- scapular artery in the jjosterior fold of the axilla. (2) Another group accompanies the long thoracic artery in the anterior fold of the axilla. One or more of the glands of this set ■vvill often be found, and should always be looked for, between the two pectorals. (3) A third set is jilaced along the axillary artery, extending up into the neck beneath the clavicle to join the cervical glands. The posterior group receives lymphatics from the side of the chest and back; the anterior group, from the front of the chest and mamma; while those placed along the axillary vessels receive the lymphatics from the fore-arm and hand, and upper limb generally. A knoAvledge of these facts is of practical value, because disease in the parts from Avhich the lymphatic vessels come wiU point to the group of glands likely to be affected; thus, in disease of the mamma {cjj., cancer) the anterior group will be enlarged, and in a poisoned wound of the hand the group along the axillary artery -will be affected, and so on. The rest of the lymphatic glands of the upper extremity are few and small, but there are usually one or two a little above the internal condyle, near the basilic vein, which are enlarged in syphilis and septic wounds of the fingers and hand. A few glands are also placed immediately beneath the clavicle, forming a connecting link between the cervical and the axillary glands. Mr Bell used to teach us that, clinically, the glands about the axilla should be classified into those (a) above the deep fascia, and (l>) those below it. In tlie former case the patient, ■when the glands are138 Applied Anatomy: inflamed, can readily abduct his arm, but in the latter he is unable either to abduct it actively or allow it to be abducted by the Surgeon. According to Dr Creighton there is a special series of sweat glands, more or less developed below the skin of the axilla, which corresponds to a conglobate form of gland found in one of the lowest mammalians; the glands have a basement membrane of non-striped muscular tissue, upon which the cells are seated. They lie between the skin and the axillary fascia, sometimes extending to the lateral and anterior part of the chest wall; they may be regarded as belated survivals, and are subject to all the risks, as regards malignant disease, of such survivals or rudiments. Somewhat similar glands are also found in the areola round the nipple. ]\Ialignant disease ma}'^ arise in these glands and have no connection, in the first instance, either with the breast or the axillary lymphatic glands; it is possible that the cases known as " alveolar sarcoma, or " duct cancer of the breast," may be malig- nant disease of these glands. So also the eczema of the nipple that often precedes malignant disease of the breast. When such growths ulcerate they resemble rodent ulcer (Sir Spencer Wells). 2. Abscess in the Axilla.—If pus forms in the axilla, it will be unable to make its way to the surface through the base of the space on account of the strong axillary fascia which is found in this region; it cannot pass back because of the serratus magnus and the fascia covering it, nor forwards because of the strong clavi- pectoral fascia and pectoral muscles, nor inwards because of the chest wall; it will therefore rather burrow up towards its apex, as there is least resistance in this direction, and point in the neck, or may sometimes open into the pleura and apex of lung or pass into the medastina. The necessity, therefore, of making an early and free incision for its evacuation is evident. Abscess between the pectoral muscles is shut out from the axilla by the costo- coracoid membrane and fascia enclosing the lesser pectoral, and wUl, therefore, tend to point at the anterior edge of the axilhi, where it should be opened by " Hilton's method." 3. The Relation of the Contents of the Axilla to its Walls.— In the outer wall are the large axillary vessels and nerves; in the anterior wall there is a large vessel—the long thoracic artery;139 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. in the posterior wall there is also a large vessel—the subscapular artery; and in the inner wall we llnd the nerve of IjKLl and the superior tlioracic artery, but the artery is small and placed high up. In making incisions, therefore, into the axilla, as for the evacuation of pus, the operator must cut toirards the inner irall in order to avoid the important structures in relation to the other walls of the space, or else use Hilton's method. 4. Pressure on the Nerves and Vessels of the Axilla.—Pressure on the brachial plexus, as from a tumour in the axilla, or in sub- glenoid dislocation of the humerus, will cause a severe numb pain to be felt in the hand and arm. The pressure on the artery may arrest the radial pulse, and pressure on the main vein will cause (i^ideraa of the hand and arm. When the group of glands along tlie axillary vessels are enlarged, as in poisoned Avouuds of tlie hand, or in cancerous tumours of the breast, the vein suffers most, as the glands are nearer it and its walls are thin; oedema of the hand and arm, therefore, in cancerous tumours of the breast is a grave symptom, as it shows that the disease has passed through the anterior set of glands and involved the deejjer set along the main vessels, passing up towards the supra-clavicular glands. As cancer always grows towards the best blood supply, in the case of the breast, it stretches along the lymphatics and vessels in the anterior fold of the axilla forming a tail-lilie growth. The pressure of a crutch, the pressure of an axillary pad in fracture of the clavicle, and the pressure caused by the arm hanging over the back of a chair (as in drunk persons), may also partially paralyse one or more bivanches uf the axillary plexus. THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The Brachial Plexus is formed by the anterior primary divi- sions of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and half of the first dorsal; it also receives a branch from the fourth cei-vical nerve. They lie in grooves on the upper surface of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebraj, and appear in the neck between the scalenus anticus and tlie scalenus medius muscles; here they lie in the posterior triangle of the neck (clavicular part), and they then pass between the clavicle and the first rib into the axilla as far as the coracoid process, or the//pplicd A natoiiiy: 14,0 insertion of the pectoralis niinoi-, wlicre it forms its three cords. The three cords are formed thus:—The fifth and sixth unite to form a single trunk; the seventh passes down alone; the eighth cervical and the first dorsal unite to form another trunk. The three cords formed in this manner then divide each into an anterior and posterior branch; the anterior branches of the upper and middle join to form the outer cord; the anterior branch of the lower forms the in7ier cord, while the posterior branches all unite to form the jiosterior cord. Its branches are divided into (a) supra-clavicular, and (h) infra-clavicular. The Supra-Clavicular branches are:—(1) Communicating to the phrenic (from the fifth); it joins the phrenic on the scalenus anticus. (2) JSTerve to rhomboids (from fifth). (3) Xerve of Bet,!., by two heads (from the fifth and sixth). (4) The supra-scapular, from the posterior part of the cord formed by the fifth and sixth. (5) Iserve to the subclavius, from the anterior jiart of the cord formed by the fifth and sixth, and which passes down, in front of the third part of the subclavian, to the muscle. The Infra-Clavicular branches are:— From the outer cord— (1) External anterior thoracic. (2) Outer head of median. (3) Musculo-cutaneous (perfomns Gasserii). From the inner cord— (1) Internal anterior thoracic. (2) Inner head of median (3) Ulnar. (4) Internal cutaneous, (5) Lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg). The nerve of Wrisberg is joined by the intercosto-humeral nerve—which is the undivided lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal, usually; occasionally, however, there is some- times an intercosto-humeral nerve from the third intercostal. Prom the posterior cord— (1) Musculo-spiral. (2) Circumflex. (3) The three subscapular nerves.141 Surg-ica/, Medical, ciiid Operative. The Costo-Coracoid Membrane.—This is a process of tlie deep cervical fascia situated under the clavicular head of the great l^ectoral; externally it is attached to the coracoid process of the scapula, internally to the first rib, and between these two points to the under surface of the clavicle, in a double fold, one in front and one behind, forming the sheath of the subclavius muscle. Immediately below tlie subclavius it thins considerably, forming a Fig. 153. Fascia about Axilla- crescentic margin, which is sometimes called the " costo-coracoid ligament." The fascia is continuous—above, with the deep cervi- cal fascia; on the under surface, with the sheath of the axillary vessels; and below, it joins the sheath of the pectoralis minor (Fig. 153). It encloses the subclavius muscle, and the following structures pierce it:—(1) The cephahc vein; (2) the external anterior thoracic nerve; (3) the thoracic axis, or the acroraio- thoracic artery; (4) the superior thoracic artery (if present); and (5) corresponding veins.Applied Anatomy: 142 The Axillary Fascia.—This is a dense sheet of fascia forming the floor or base of the axilla. It becomes continuous on the inner side "with the fascia over the serratus magnus; at the outer side it is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm, and receives fibres from the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major; it also becomes continuous "with the deep fascia ensheathing the muscles forming the anterior and posterior walls of the axilla. In this way a strong fascial chamber is formed, open only at the upper part of the root of the neck. In operations in the axilla care must be taken to prevent the entrance of air into the large axillary vein. This is apt to take place—first, because of its posi- tion so close to the chest, and therefore subject to the aspirating power of that cavity during inspiration; and, secondly, because it is surrounded and held open by the dense fascia of this region. THE BEND OF THE ELBOW. The Triangle in Front of the Elbow Joint (anticuUtal fossa). —This space is bounded—on the outer side, by the supinator longus; on the inner side, by the pronator radii teres; the base is an imaginary line drawn across the arm at the level of the condyles; the apex is the meeting of the supinator longus and the pronator radii teres. The roof is formed by the skin, the superficial and deep fascia, cutaneous nerves, median cephalic and median basilic veins; the floor is formed by the supinator brevis and the tendon of insertion of the bracliialis anticus. The Contents, from within outwards, are:—(1) The median nerve. (2) The brachial artery, with its venee comites; the artery in tliis space divides into its radial and ulnar branches. (3) .The tendon of the biceps. (4) By pulling the supinator longus outwards a little, the musculo-spiral nerve will be seen dividing into radial and posterior interosseous, and also the anastomoses between the radial recurrent and superior profunda; and by displacing the pronator radii teres a little inwards, the anastomoses between the anterior ulnar recurrent, inferior profunda, and auastomotica. The bursa over the olecranon process is very apt to be injured by falls or blows, in workmen especially, and very frequently the little sac is opened; in this way septic matter gets in through the small opening, gives rise to a septic spreading inflammation and143 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. pus formation, but tlio pus and otlier matters cannot escape, as tlio opening is too small, and it also tends to become sealed up. In this way an appearance, very like that of erysipelas, is produced, the entire region about tlie elbow being of a bright red colour and very tender to pressure; the edge of the redness is rarely, however, so sharply defined as in erysipelas. The Treatment is to lay the bursa completely open and apply an antiseptic fomentation and keep the arm at rest. Veins at the Bend of the Elbow (Fig. 154).—Passing up the centre of the fore-arm is the median vein, which, when it reaches the hollow in front of the elbow joint, divides into the median basilic and the median cephalic veins. The median cephalic is joined by the radial vein, then passes up the arm as the cephalic vein, and empties itself into the axillary vein. The median basilic is joined by the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, then passes upwards as the basilic vein, and about the middle of the arm pierces the deep fascia, and is joined by the vense comites of the brachial artery, and is then known as the axillary vein. The posterior ulnar begins at the inner border of the hand and vein of the little finger—"wejza salvutella." Ai the bend of the elbow the median basilic vein overlies the brachial artery, but is separated from it by the semi-lunar or bicipital fascia, and the internal cutaneous nerve passes over or under it, while the external cutaneous passes under the median cephalic. Venesection at the Bend of the Elbow.—Either of these (median cephalic or median basilic) may be opened. The median basilic is the larger, and more easily compressed and fixed, because it has the firm bicipital fascia behind it, and it is also more superficial than the median cephalic; its great disadvantage is that it lies just over the brachial artery, so that if the operation be performed carelessly, or if the patient start during tlie entering of the lancet, it may pass through the vein and fascia into the artery beyond. The median cephalic is not quite so large, although it is large enough to afibrd a good stream of blood, but it is separated by a considerable interval from the brachial artery. Instruments required.—A yard of broad tape, a lancet, a cylindrical piece of wood for the patient to grasp in his hand, a vessel to catch the blood, and dressings.Applied Anatomy:145 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Operation.—Whichover voiu be chosen, tlie steps of tlie opera- tion are practically the same—(1) A bandage is tied round the arm above the point where the vein is to be opened, to make it " rise," but must not be drawn too tightly lest the flow through the brachial artery also be checked (Fig. 155). (2) The thumb of the Surgeon's left hand is then drawn upwards over the course of the vein for a little way, and firmly pressed upon it, just below the point Fig. 155. Venesection. Jlcdian C'ci)lialic m I Median I'illot. -Incision. .Median Basilic. - Prufunda. where it is to be opened, in order to steady it, and also to fill the vein tightly between the bandage and the tliumb. (.3) The point of the lancet is then pushed into the vein and made to cut an aUiiiiie opening—because if longitudinal the flow is too meagre, and if transverse the vein miglit be completely divided—taking care that the opening in the skin is larger than that in the vein, lest blood escape into the cellular tissue and give rise toU6 Applicd A natoiiiy: " tliromljus." If tlie flow be sluggish, tho patient sliould move his fingers while he grasps something firm in his hand, so as to compress the deep veins and cause the blood to flow into the superficial set through the profunda communication. AVlien enough, blood has been extracted, place the thumb over the wound, and remove tlie bandage or " fillet," bend the arm and apply a comjiress of lint, and fix it by a figure-of-eight bandage and sling the arm. If the artery be punctured during the operation, this injury will be manifested by (1) the blood being redder than it should be, (2) that it escapes in jerks, and (3) pressure on the vein below the opening does not stop the bleeding. The results of such an accident are various: it may lead to—(1) A False Anewism, that is, the blood poured from the artery may be enclosed in a sac, not formed by the coats of the vessels as in true aneurisms, but hy the surrounding tissues. (2) It may lead to an A7ieu7'ismal Varix, that is, when the wounded artery and vein adhere at the wounded point, and jets of blood are driven into the vein from the artery, dilating it, and causing incompetency of its vah^es, and leading to a varicose state of the veins in the neighbourhood. (3) It may lead to a Varicose Aneurism, that is, an aneurism the sac of which communicates with both artery and vein, and blood from the artery is projected into the vein tliroiigli the sac of the aneurism. Other risks of this operation are (4) septic lymphangitis from the use of a dirty lancet; (5) sometimes a very painful neuralgic condition results, probably from the cutaneous nerve of the corresponding side being involved; and, (6) less frequently, "bent arm" results, probably from some injury to the cutaneous filaments of the musculo - cutaneous, setting up irritation and causing reflex con- traction of the biceps and brachialis anticus (Hilton). The Lowest Lymphatic Gland of the upper extremity is placed a little above the internal condjde, towards the anterior aspect of the arm. It very frequently inflames and suppurates as a result of poisoned wounds of the inner jiart of the hand and the inner fingers, as it arrests the poison (^ptomaine) before it reaches the axillary glands. It is also very constantly enlarged during tlie secondary stage of acquired sypliilis, and forms a readily accessible aid to diagnosis.Surg^ical, Medical, and Operative. 147 Synovial Membranes of the Wrist.—These avefwe in number —(1) The niembvaua aacciformis, which lines the lower end of the uhia, the sigmoid cavity of tlic radius, and the upper surface of tlio triangular fibro-cartilage. (2) The second lines the wrist joint proper—i.e., the end of the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semi-lunar, and cuneiform bones below. (.3) The third is the most extensive; it covers the contiguous surfaces of the two rows of carpal bones, and, passing between the bones of the second row, lines the carpal ends of the four inner metacarpal bones. (4) The fourth lies between the trapezium and metacarpal bone of the thumb. (5) Tlie fifth is between the pisiform and the cuneiform bones. We see, tlierefore, that one synovial membrane (the third) does for all the carpal bones except tlie pisiform, and also for all the metacarpal bones except the first (tliat of the thumb). The Muscuio-Spiral Nerve.—This nerve arises from tlie posterior cord of the brachial plexus, lying at first behind the third part of tlie axillary and upper part of tlie brachial artery, passing in front of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major; it then winds round the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove with the superior profunda artery, passing from the inner to the outer side of the bone, between the internal and external heads of the triceps. It pierces the external inter-muscular septum, and descends betAveen the brachialis anticus and the supinator longus to the front of the external condyle, where it divides into posterior interosseous and radial nerves. The Muscles supplied by this nerve are—(1) TJie triceps—the twig to the inner head is a long, slender filament, which lies close to the ulnar nerve as far as the lower third of the arm; (2) the anconeus—a long, slender filament wliicli tunnels the substance of the triceps to reach the anconeus; (3) a brancli to tlie brachialis anticus; (4) the supinator longus; and (5) the extensor carpi radialis longior. To Expose this Nerve, for tlie purposes of stretching, the edge of the supinator longus is used as the guide, and the nerve reached as it lies between that muscle and the bracliialis anticus. We simply cut through the skin, superficial fascia, and fatty tissue; define the edge of the supinator longus, cut through the deep fascia, and find the nerve lying on the brachialis anticus.148 Applied Anatomy: The Median Nerve.—This nerve arises by two roots, one from the outer and the other from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, ■which join either in front or to the outer side of the axillary artery. It then lies to the outer side of the third part of the axillary and the upper joart of the brachial; it then crosses the brachial very obliquely, and lies on its inner side, at the bend of the elbow, beneath the bicipital fascia. It enters the fore-arm by passing between the two heads of the pronator radii teres, lies on the iiexor profundus, covered by the flexor sublimis, to within two inches of the wrist joint, where it becomes more superficial, lying between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and the flexor carpi radialis, beneath, or rather to the ulnar side of, the tendon of the palmaris longus. This nerve supplies directly four muscles in the fore-arm—the pronator radii teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor sublimis digitorum : by its anterior interosseus branch it supplies the flexor longus pollicis, the pi'onator quadratus, and part of the flexor profundus. In the hand it supplies the abductor pollicis, the opponens pollicis, half of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the two outer lumbricales— the first and second. To Expose this Nerve, for the purposes of stretching, make a short median incision just to the idnar side of the palmaris longus, the tendon of this muscle being used as tlie guide to the nerve. The only structures divided are the skin and superficial and deep fascia. Results of Paralysis.—(1) Loss of the power of flexion in the second phalanges of all the fingers, and in the third phalanges of the index and middle fingers; (2) the thumb is extended and adducted, and can neither be flexed nor opposed; and (3) pronation is lost entirely. On account, however, of the activity of the idnar nerve, we find—(1) The power of partial flexion of the ring and little fingers at the third phalanges, through the ulnar half of the flexor profundus; (2) the power of flexing of the first phalanges, and extending the other two through the interossei; and (3) the power of flexing the wrist at the ulnar side by the flexor carpi ulnaris, best seen when the hand is adducted. The Ulnar Nerve.—It arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and lies to the inner side of the axillary and brachial149 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. artcvios; about tlio niickllc of the arm it leaves the braehial artery, and runs obliquely across the internal head of the triceps, pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and descends to the ffroovc between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna, accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. It enters the fore-arm by passing between the two heads of the flexor carpi uluaris, passes straight down, lying upon tbe flexor profundus digitorum, and covered by the flexor carpi uluaris; for the lower two thirds of its course it lies to the inner side of the ulnar artery, and between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and tlic flexor carpi uluaris, and at the Avrist crosses the annular ligament, and enters the palm. The guide for this nerve is the pisiform l)oue and the tendon of the flexor carpi uluaris; it lies immediately to the outer or radial side of these structures. This nerve supplies the elbow and Avrist joints, and the following muscles—in the fore-arm, the flexor carpi uluaris and tlie inner half of the flexor profundus; in the hand, the palmaris brevis, all the intrinsic muscles of the little finger, all the dorsal and palmar interossei, the third and fourth lumbricales muscles, the adductor pollicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Results of Paralysis. — (1) Impaired flexion of the ring and little fingers; (2) impaired ulnar flexion of the wrist; (3) the action of the interossei and of the two inner lumbricales lost; and (4) the tliumb cannot be adducted, and the action of the flexor brevis is imi)aired. The Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons.—AVhen erysipelatous inflammation attacks the sheaths of the flexor tendons in the fingers (whitlow), or more frequently in the case of septic wounds, there is great pain, owing to the resistant nature of the structures attacked, and consequent tension, and it is at the same time fraught Avith danger to the utility of the finger or hand. Pus forms very rapidly, and finds its way up the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons to the hand and common synovial sheatli under tlie anterior annular ligament; and, if the disease be not checked by timely interference, the sheaths and tendons are rapidly de- stroyed, the joiuts of the fingers injured, and the phalanges may even necrose or the finger become gangrenous, and the ei'ysipelatous inflammation extend up the fore-arm. 8u]>puratiuii occurring in150 Applied Anatomy: the slicatlis of the tendons of the little finger, or thumb, is far more likely to involve the common sheath under the anterior annidar ligament than when it occurs in any of the other fingers; this is because the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons of the thumb and the little finger communicate directly ■vvith the common sheath, while those of the three other fingers do not; but in no case, however, is the distance between the common sheath and the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons great—usually about a (quarter of an inch. To check the spread of the inflammation and relieve the tension, it is advisable either to foment the finger with warm water, or make an early and free longitudinal incision into the finger, and if the pus has formed loitldn the sheaths, make an incision down to the bone at once, or, in the case of septic wounds, immerse the whole hand in a warm boracic acid bath. If pus form or accumulate in the common synovial membrane under the anterior annular ligament, the appearance presented is peculiar— there is a swelling in the palm and another in the lower part of the fore-arm, with a constriction between, caused by the annular ligament. In opening a palmar abscess, always cut on a meta- carpal bone parallel with its long axis, and towards its head, to avoid the digital nerves and vessels. Also avoid going too near the root of tlie thumb lest the superficial palmar arch be injured. The Anterior Annular Ligament. — Passing beneath this structure, and enveloped by a common synovial sheath, we find— (1) The tendons of the flexor sublimis; (2) the tendons of the flexor profundus; (3) the tendon of the flexor lougus polhcis; and (4) the median nerve. The tendon of the poUicis, however, has usually a synovial sheath to itself. Passing over the ligament, we fijid—(1) The tendon of the palmaris longus, (2) ulnar vessels, (3) ulnar nerve, and (4) cutaneous twigs of the ulnar and median nerves to the palm. Passing through its substance is the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis (Fig. 156). The Posterior Annular Ligament has six compartments, cor- responding with grooves on the bones. The first, on the outer side of the styloid process of the radius, transmits the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis and extensor primi internodii poUicis; the second transmits the tendons of the exteusores carpiSiifoica/, Ulediail, and Operative. ir,i liuUalis loiigior et brcvior; llic tliinl is oliliquc, timl Iransmits the, tendon of the extensor secundi iiitoruodii poUicis; tlie fourth, the tendons of the extensor communis dicjitorum and tlie extensor indicis; the lifth is jiLaced between the bones, and transmits the tendon of tlie extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth, on the back of the styloid ^jroeess of the ulna, transmits the tendon of the extensor carjii ulnaris (Fig. 15G). Kx tensor Jliuiuii Digili Extensor Carpi Ubiaris U. Ulna. 1!. HaUiu: The Tendons of Flexor .Siiblirnis and Pro- fundus and Median Xen-e , The Ulnar Vessels ani l Xerve Fig. 156. Section of the Wrist. Extensor Communis and hidicis. Extensor Secundi. , ExtensorCarpiRadialis Longior ot Brcvior. . Radial Vessels. raln\aris Longus . Flexor Longus PoUicis. ^.Extensor Ossis and Priuii Intenindii. I'^lexov Caiiii Radialis. Whitlow is usually detiued as an erysipelatous inflammation of the finger; it is no doubt usually septic in its character. The Varieties usually enumerated are :—■ 1. Mere inflammation of the cutaneous structures about the root of nail, with usually a drop of pus beneath the cutis. 2. In the flbrous tissue of the pulp, which is apt to spread to tlie i)eriosteum and cause necrosis of the terminal phalanx, from interference with the blood sup^jly, and the absence of the tendon sheath. 3. In the .sheath of tlie tendon or " true thecal abscess." Mr Duncan, however, teaches that tliis variety is, in all probability, non-existent as a primary afl'ection, though it may spread from the soft tissues or from the bone, and involve the sheath secondarily.Applied Anatomy: 152 A slight variation of this classification would probably be more correct, thus:— 1. The superficial form, between the tAvo layers of skin or round the root of the nail. 2. In the cellular tissue, from a poisoned wound, and in some cases idiopathically. 3. Under the periosteum, usually only of the terminal phalanx, and leading to necrosis of part of phalanx, (a) As a primary " acute necrosis." (h) Secondary to the cellular tissue whitlow. 4. In the sheath of the tendon— (rt) As a result of tension and burrowing, because not opened sufficiently early. (h) Caused by the Surgeon opening the sheath of the tendon Avhen incising a cellular tissue whitlow. This infects the synovial sheath Avith septic material, and the usual results are—spread of the inflammation, sloughing of the tendons, and a useless finger. It is unnecessary, and even harmful in such cases, to " cut doAvn to the bone." In opening a WhitloAV, tAvo things must be attended to— (1) To have something firm (wood or stone) behind the patient's hand; in this way the hand cannot descend from the knife, it can only be drawn back. (2) Cut with the edge of the knife directed toAvards the tip of the finger, so that, as the hand can only be pulled back and not depressed, the incision Avill be enlarged in the proper direction, and no injury done to patient or Surgeon. As in all probability, AvhitloAV never hegim in the sheath of the tendon, it is unnecessary to open into the sheath—in fact, such an incision Avill do more harm than good; in cases where it is iuA'^olved secondarily, it must be opened, but such a case Avill probably come to amputation. WhitloAV is most often seen in the terminal phalanges, or else in the first phalanges, close to the j^alm. Tlic cedema on the hack of the finger or hand must not mislead the student as to the true seat of the suppuration; tlie tissues on the palm arc too dense to become ccdematous.Siij'gical, Medical, and Operative. Tlio term Paronychia (-n-apa, beside, ami uw^, the nail), ia properly applied to iuflammation or suppuration round the root of the nail; it is sometimes used as if it were synonymous with " whitlow," but it had better be restricted to the above meaning. GANGLION. The synovial sheaths of the tendons round the Avrist are fre- quently the seat of Ganglia. Chronic ganglia are usually divided into two kinds—simple and compound. Simple Ganglion is supposed to have four possible modes of origin—(1) as a cystic enlargement of a cell in one of the fringes of the sheath; (2) a partial hernia of the sheath that has become cut off from the main tube; (3) from the dilatation of sub-synovial follicles; and (4) it may possibly originate as a hernia from the synovial membrane of some of the joints in the neighbourhood. The simple form is the ganglion proper. It is most common on the extensor tendons of the fingers, thumb, or wrist—especially towards the radial side of the hand, but it is also found on the corresponding part of the foot; it usually contains a clear, jelly-like substance, resembling in consistence and appearance the eye of a cod-fish, or semi-solid glycerine. It should be ruptured subcutaneously by squeezing it with both thumbs against the bone beneath, or by giving it a heavy blow Avith a book of some size; after this, apply pressure Avith pad and bandage. Blisters and iocTiue are sometimes iised. Should these plans fail, then puncture it subcutaneously Avith a clean tenotomy knife, and squeeze out the thick, jelly-like fluid, and afterwards apply firm pressure. Compound Ganglion is the dilatation of a tendon sheath itself, or of several tendon sheaths; it is not, properly speaking, a ganglion at all, being more of the nature of chronic synovitis, or hydrops of the sheath. It is usually found in the fe.ror sheaths, under the annular ligament and the loAver part of the fore-arm. There are two varieties—(a) consisting of simple serous fluid alone, and {h) that Avith melon seed bodies as Avell; the latter form may be made to crackle and gurgle as the "seeds" are squeezed from one part of the .«hcath to the other, or through tlie narroAv part of the hbur-glass-shapcd sheath beloAV the anterior annular ligament. For tlic first variety, simple puncture or tap[)ing, Avitii jiressurc154 Applied A luxtoiiiy : and rest u2)on a spliut afterwards, may be enough. If uot, and should it pass under the annular ligament, make a small incision above, and another below, the annidar ligament, and drain with an ordinary tube, catgut, or horse-hair for a few days, with strict antiseptic precautions. Should it be septic or suppurating in the first instance, or unfortunately become so during treatment, then wo may use Syjce's plan of completely dividing the anterior annular ligament; but first patiently try the effect of a continu- ous warm boracic lotion bath. Tor the form with melon seed bodies, a puncture must always be made in the first instance, to let them out, then treat with pressure, and rest on a splint; otherwise, the treatment is the same as in the serous variety. Ec very careful and particular about antiseptic precautions in these operations, as an error in this respect may cost the patient his hand or even his life. In cases where the large sheath under the anterior annular ligament is very full or much enlarged, fluctuation can readily be felt between the hollow in the palm, and the lower part of the fore-arm, above the annular ligament. In order to make an opening into this collection for the purposes of drainage, make an incision a little to the ulnar side of the palmaris longus, just sufticiently fixr to avoid the median nerve, squeeze out the melon seed bodies, and then insert a catgut or liorse-hair drain. In order to make drainage free, it may be necessary to divide the anterior annular ligament subcutaneously with a probe-pointed bistourj'. In cases where the sheath does not project mucli, j^ress a thumb on the hollow between the thenar and hypo-thenar eminences, when a prolongation of the sheath will be made to project above the ligament, to the ulnar side of the palmaris longus, at the exact place Avhere the upper opening should be made. " Dupuytren's Contraction."—This is a chronic, inflammatory thickening and contraction of the palmar fascia, especially of its digital prolongations; the contracted bands begin at the line of transverse flexion of the palm, and the flexion is most marked opposite the second j^halanx. The disease begins as a hard knot in the palm, about the level of the transverse line of flexion, and opposite the root of the ring finger; this finger is then gradually bent into the palm; the little finger is next afi'ected, and it is often more bent than the ring finger; the other fingers are not muchSiirgicdl, Medical, ai/d Operative. 155 aftectod, ;iiul the tbiuiib never, as it lias uo prolougatiuii from the pahnar fascia. The fascia contracts very dense adhesions to the skin, and perhaps a little to the tendon sheath. The tendons are not alfected, because the carpo-metacarpal joints arc most contracted ; if it were the tendons, it would be the other two. The condition is often symmetrical, and occasionally the feet are affected as well. Cause. — It is most frequently found in the well-to-do, and, therefore, cannot be due to any special position of the hand at work, as with round-headed tools, etc. It is probably associated with some special constitutional diathesis, as the gouty and the rheumatic, shice the small joints are often enlarged in this affec- tion, just as they are in chronic rheumatic arthritis. Alcohol lias l)robably a good deal to answer for as a cause. Treatment.—When the disease is beginning, as the hard palmar knot, tr}' what an anti-goirty regimen will effect—Carlsbad waters, and cut off starch, sugar, and alcohol. Operative.— (1) MultljiJe JSubcHfaiieous Dirision, flip Oontrwted Band.<—Introduce the knife at all points where the skin is not densely attached to the fascia, and divide the bands, and try to straighten the finger; do this in many places, till the finger can be In-ought straight; when straight enough, keep the hand in a straight splint for four weeks, then leave oJf the splint during the day, and finally leave it off altogether. (2) Busch's Operation—Make a V-shaped incision, with its base opposite the root of the finger; dissect up the fiap and straighten the finger, so that the V now becomes a Y ; finish by suturing the flap to the limbs of the Y. This is exactly Jonks's oj^eration for cctropioji. (3) Dissect up flaps of skin from the palm, and cut out the contracted fascia altogether. A curious accident occasionally happens from a blow, or by giving a forcible tlick with the finger—viz., rupture of that part of the common extensor tendon attached to the last phalanx of one of the fingers. The ruptured tendon is ajtt to adhere to the second phalanx, leaving the terminal phalanx entirely useless. Cutaneous Nerves of the Fingers.—In Front (Fig. 157), the median nei-ve sui)plics tlie thumb, index and middle fingers, and the radial half of the ring finger; the ulnar supplying the ulnar side of the ring, and the whole of the little linger. Behind (Fig. 158), the radial nerve .supplies the lingers supplied by the16G Applied Anatomy: Fig. 157. Palmar Cutaneous Nerves. Ulnar Nerve. Ulnar Ncr Cuiiuuuuiciitiiig Parts sHiii'licil by tlic Mcdiiui,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 157 median in front, except the ungual phalanges of the index and middle fingers, and the radial half of the ungual phalanx of the ring finger, which are supplied by the median; the ulnar supplies the remaining one and a half, just as on the anterior aspect. The Middle Line of the Hand is a line drawn through the centre of the middle finger, and when Ave speak of abduction or adduction of the fingers or thumb it is in reference to this line, and not to the middle line of the body ; the same remark applies to the foot, Eemember also, that the palmar interossei draw the fingers to this line, or adduct; and that the dorsal di'awthem away from this line, or abduct. The interossei also aid the lumbricales in flexing the first phalanges and extending the other two. Tlie Palmar Furrow of the hand, formed by the flexion of the fingers at the carpo-metacarpal articulation, very nearly indicates the position (1) of the carpo - metacarjjal articulations, (2) the bifurcation of the digital arteries, and (3) the upper end of the synovial sheaths of the fingers; it also indicates the point beyond which the anterior splint in Colles's fracture should not come.Applied A natomy: 158 CHAPTER XXXIL THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Poupart's Ligament.—This is a strong fibrous band, stretching between the anterior superior iliac spine and the spine of the pnbes; it is part of the insertion of the external oblicpie muscle of the alxlonien, and separates tlie thigh from the belly, and the external abdominal ring from the saphenous opening, and is Fig. 159. Structures between Poupart's Ligament and the Bone. Gimbeni.it's Li| ment iSpiue of Tubes .. • Fouioral Artei'v Ci uial Ring • Femoral Vein ' rectineus Jliise.le. Femoral Sheath. Crural Bi-anch of Gonito-crmiil Xervo. .Poupart's Ligament. _Anterior Superior Spine. -External Cutaneous Nerve. Tliacus Siuscle. Anterior Cnn-.il Nerve. Psoas Jiusclc. an important diagnostic landmark between inguinal and femoral hernia. It is often known as the Cmml ArcJi. Filling up the gap between this ligament and the bone, we find the following Structures (Fig. 159):—(1) External cutaneous nerve; (2) iliacus muscle; (3) the psoas muscle; (4) the anterior crural nerve, lying in the "roove between these two muscles, and separated from the159 Surgical, Medical, ami Operative. femoral slioath by a small part of the psoas—at this part of its courso the nervo is not round, but may be triangular or (piadri- latcral in shape; (">) the crural branch of the geuito-crural iierve lying on the femoral sheath; (G) the femoral sheath with its component parts, compartments, and contents—the artery most external, the vein in the middle, and the beginning of the crural canal most internal (see "Femoral Hernia"); (7) below the sheath, the origin of the pectineus; (8) Guibernat's ligament— a coutinuation of Poupart's—along the pectineal line, and part therefore of the insertion of the external oblique; and (9) the accessory obturator nerve, in cases where this nerve exists, lying beneath the pectineus muscle. Superficial Glands of the Groin.—These glands are arranged in tAvo rows—one disposed irregularly along Poupart's ligament, the other disposed vertically along the inner side of the thigh, or groui:)ed irregularly around the saphenous opening. The first of these receives the lymphatic vessels from the integument of the penis, scrotum, or vulva, parietes of the lower half of the abdomen, the perineal and gluteal regions; the vertical group receives the lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. These glands frequently become enlarged in diseases implicating the parts from which their lymphatics spring (bubo). Thus, iu malignant disease, when it involves the integument, syphilitic or otlier venereal affections of the genital organs, abscess of the perinanini, cancer of the scrotum, etc., the glands along Poupart's ligament Avill be implicated, while the vertical set will be enlarged iu affections of tlie lower limb and foot, e.g., melanotic sarcoma about the toes. SCARPA'S TRIANGLE. This is a triangular space situated at the upper third of the anterior surface of the thigh; from base to apex it is about a hand's-breadtli in extent—about four inches. Boundaries.—On the outer side, the inner border of the sartorius; on the inner side, the inner prominent half of the adductor longus; its base is formed by Poupart's ligament, and its apex is formed by the crossing of the sartorius over tlio adductor longus. Its roof is formed by tiie skin, superficial and deep fascia, and the cribriform fascia.160 Applied Anatomy: The Cribriform Fascia closes up the saphenous "opening," and is pierced by a large number of lymphatic A'essels (hence its cribriform appearance); it is also pierced by the long saphenous vein. This is the longest vein in the body; it passes tlirougli the cribriform fascia, at the lower end of the saphenous opening, just above the inferior cornu. Just before it passes through, it is joined, usually as a common trunk, by the veins corresponding to the three superficial branches of the femoral artery. At this point the vein is frequently the subject of the diseased condition known as Varix ; some believe that this is due to the vein being semi- strangulated by turning too sharply over the dense fascia forming the inferior cornn of the saphenous opening, and to relieve the condition and cure the disease, suggest that the fascia should be divided. The floor of the triangle is formed by (beginning at the outer side) the iliacus, psoas, pectineus, sometimes part of adductor brevis, and adductor longas muscles. Contents.—(1) The femoral sheath; (2) the femoral artery, giving off the cutaneous branches and the profunda \ (3) the femoral vein ■with its tributaries, the long saphena and profunda veins; (4) the anterior crural nerve and its branches; (5) the external cutaneous nerve; (6) the crural branch of genito-crural and ilio-inguinal nerves j (7) the superficial division of the obturator nerve; and (8) fat, with deep lymjahatic glands and vessels. Fluctuating Swellings in this region of the groin are numerous, as—(1) Localised chronic abscess; (2) it may come from a peri- nephritic abscess; (3) on the right side, from a pericecal abscess; (4) iliac abscess under the fascia, from disease of the bones, or above it; (5) pelvic abscess, in hip disease or from cellulitis; (G) glandular abscesses ; (7) from an empyema; (8) serous or hydatid cysts; (9) a hernia with fluid in the sac; and (10) cj'sts or bursal collections in connection with the hip joint, e.g.^ in Charcot's disease, and sometimes in chronic rheumatic arthritis. Structures beneath the Gluteus Maximus Muscle.—(1) Part of gluteus medius; (2) superficial branch of the gluteal artery and superior gluteal nerve; (3) pyriformis muscle; (4) lower border of gluteus minimus; (5) sciatic vessels; (G) great and small sciatic nerves; (7) pudic vessels and nerve; (8) nerve to the obturator internus, which also supplies the gemellus superior; (9) nerve to161 Snrgi'ca/, Medical, and Operative. tlio ([lunlniLus fcmoiis, wliicL. also supplies tlic gemellus inferior; (10) the gemellus superior muscle; (11) tendon of the obturator intcrnus; (12) gemellus inferior; (13) tendon of the obturator externus; (11) c^uadratus femoris; (15) termination of the internal circumllex: artery; (16) part of adductor magnus; (17) the first perforating artery; (18) great trochanter, with part origin of the vastus externus; (19) the tuber ischii Avith the origin of the ham- strings—biceps, semi-membranosus, and semi-tendinosus; (20) great sacro-sciatic ligament, pierced by the coccygeal branch of the sciatic artery; (21) three burste—(«) one over the trochanter major, (6) one over the vastus externus, and (c) another over the tuberosity of the ischium. When this last one is enlarged, as by excessive [)ressure, it gives rise to the condition known as " weaver's, OP lighterman's bottom," corresponding to the "miner''s elhoio" and the ^' houxeinaitV^ knee" of other situations. The bursa over the trochanter major may be enlarged in the case of soldiers on the march, convicts and others who are condemned to the use of the "plank bed;" it might be called the "coercion bursa." The lower edge of this large muscle forms tlic " fold of the buttock," but the " fold" and the lower edge of the muscle do not corre- spond in direction, the "fold" being nearly transverse, while the lower edge of the muscle passes upwards and inwards toAvards tlie coccyx. The Great Sciatic Nerve.—This nerve is the continuation of the lower part of the sacral ])lexus, and leaves the pelvis Ijy the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis muscle, and a little external to the sciatic aiiery. Tlic nerve will, therefore, be found beneath a point a little external to the \mnt that indi- cates the situation of the sciatic artery on the surface of the body (see vol. i., page 141). Its course is indicated by a line drawn from the point where it emerges from the pelvis to the middle of the upper part of the popliteal space. The nerve, however, is not straight, but is curved with the convexity outwards, and at its upper part is found almost midway between the great trochanter and the tuber ischii, but a little nearer the ischium. The nerve is covered by the gluteus maximus and the long liead of the biceps, and .slightly by the pyriformis, and it lies upon all the muscles found l)encath the gluteus maximus, beluw the pyriformis—viz., tendon * L162 Applied Anatomy: of the obturator interuus aud the two gciiielli, obturator cxtoruuH, quadi-atus fenioris, and adductor magnus. The nerve may bifur- cate into its two divisions at any point between the sacral plexus and the usual point of bifurcation; a not uncommon arrangement is to find it leaving the pelvis in tAvo divisions, one of -which pierces the pyriformis, and the other in the usual position. This fact must be borne in mind in the operation of " stretclung" this nerve. It is important to remember its course in connection with the operation of acupuncture for sciatica; further, it is important to bear in mind, in the oj)eratiou of stretching this nerve, that it can be exposed Avithout cutting through any muscular structure, at the lower border of the gluteus maximus (indicated by the fold of the nates), in the interval between that muscle and the long head of the biceps. To Stretch the Great Sciatic.—The instruments required are—A knife to shave the parts, carbolic oil, a scalpel, dissect- ing forceps, retractors, sponges, needles and horse-hair sutures, collodion, pads of cotton avooI and bandages, chloroform, etc. The Surgeon should, if he has a choice, stand at the o-pfosite side from the nerve about to be stretched. 1. At the Fold of the Buttock.—The part must first be rendered thoroughly aseptic. It is then shaved, if necessary, and an incision made, about two inches in length, in the line of the ]ierve; this incision divides the skin, superficial fascia, fatty tissue, and deep fascia. The finger is then introduced to hook out the nerve, which is found in the angle formed by the gluteus maximus on the inner side, and the hamstrings, as they arise from the ischial tuberosity, on the outer side; the finger first touches the vastus externus, and when drawn across this muscle towards the operator, the first tiling caught is the great sciatic nerve (Ciiiene). The nerve is then to be stretched as much as the Surgeon deems necessary, being first pulled Avell out, aud then up the limb and down the limb, in a number of short jerlcs rather than a long, steady pull. Some Surgeons lift the limb from the table by the nerve. Dr Syjiingtox advises care, lest the sacral plexus be torn aAvay from the cord. A caution is usually given not to stretch the tendon of the semi- membranosus by mistake; but by tlie above plan this is not likely to hapi)en, for it would bo impossible to liook that tendon out atSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 163 llic wouud so luiai' its urigin, iuid ospcciuUy wliuii Uic palieut's kucc joint is oxtcudcd. Tlic Avound is then to be washed ont bj' some antiseptic, three sntures inserted, and the "whole sealed up by flexible collodion and cotton wool. In cases of high division of this nerve, the finger may not recognise the nerve trunk, from its divided ami flattened form; in tliese circumstances enlarge the wound and hii)h for the nerve. Strctcliiug the vvjhi sciatic is more successful than the left, it is said, because tlie sigmoid Hcxurc is on the left side, and is a great cause of sciatica, as the full gut presses upon the nerve; it will be, therefore, very much worse in con- stipation. Occasionally the first perforating artery may be injured, a troublesome circumstance, as it l)leeds much, and is diliicult to secure, as it retracts beneath its fibrous arch. 2. It may also be stretched at the Middle of the Thigh, by an incision two or three inclies long, dividing the same structures as in the last case. Here the nerve lies between the bice[is on the outer side, and tlu; semi-tendinosus on the inner side. Tlie wound may be dressed as in the last case, or it may l)e drained, dressed antiscptically, and conJined in a splint for a week or ten daj's. 3. Tlie "Dry" Plan (Trojijjett.v and ISillroth).—The patient is laid on his back, the knee joint is flexed, and the ankle joint extended, and then tlie thigh is forcibly flexed on the abVlomen imtil the knee joint almost touches the chin; the thigh is then held firmly in this position Avhile the knee joint is fully extended and the ankle joint as fully flexed. Before any oj)eration for supposed sciatica, the Surgeon must make sure that the pain is not due to malignant disease of the bones or pelvic viscera, involving the sacral plexus, or to irritation caused by disease of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, engorged rectum, varicose condition of the ])clvic veins, aneurism of the internal iliac, or its branches, or to sciatic hernia. The spine should also be examined for caries; the diseases most apt to involve the plexus ai'c sarcoma of the sacrum or os innominatuiu, and malignant disease of the rectum, and sarcoma of the soft parts in the pelvis. The Great Sciatic Nerve supplies the hip joint, entering pos teriorly, and the flexors of the leg, viz., the bicc])s, semi-tendinosus, and scmi-mendn'anosus, as well as a branch to the adductor magnus; about the lower third of the thigh it divides into the external andApplied Anatomy: 1G4 internal popliteal iicvvcs, which supply the wliolc of the muscles lJelo^v the kuce. In paralysis of this nerve, therefore, the patient would be tinahle to flex the knee, and there would also be some weakness of the adductor magnus; it is evident, however, that the trunk of this nerve could not be paralysed -without also paralysing,' the internal and external popliteal nerves, witli their branches. The Anterior Crural Nerve.—This is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus, and arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, with a fasciculus from the second. While yet inside the Abdomen it supi^lics the U'lacuts muscle, and gives a twig to the femoral artery. In the Leg, it supplies—(1) The sartorius, usually from the middle or internal cutaneous branches; (2) the pecUneus—this muscle usually receives two branches, wliich reach it by passing behind the femoral vessels; (3) the rectm femoris; (4) the two vasti — the nerves to the vasti also supply the knee joint; and (5) the crureus. When this nerve is paralysed the patient will be unable to flex the hip properly, as the iliac us is paralysed, though the psoas is not; he will be unable to extend the knee joint; the sartorius will be paralysed, and the pectineus ])artially. The Obturator Nerve.—This nerve is a branch of the lumbar plexus, and arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It supplies—(1) Two joints, the hip and knee; (2) four muscles coniijletely, the adductors longus and brevis, the gracilis, and the obturator extcrnus; and (3) two muscles partially, tlic pectineus and the adductor niagnus. Should this nerve be paralysed, the patient would be unable to press the knees together or cross the paralysed leg over the other one. The left obturator lies beneath the sigmoid flexure; consequently, when this part of the gut is distended with fiuces, or the seat of malignant disease, the nerve may bo irritated, causing a " pain in the knee," just as in hip joint disease. Both nerves lie in front of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and arc often early afi"ected in disease of that articulation. HIP JOINT DISEASE. It is a fact worthy of notice in connection with tlie conduction of nervous impulses in sensory nerves, that when a stimulus is applied to any part in the course of a sensory nerve—as to tlie nerve trunk, or to sensory filaments supplying parts nearer theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 105 central nervous system tlian tli(i final distril)ution of the nerve,— that the impulses appear to be conveyed to, or to spring from, its terminal filameiUs (in fact, a sensory nerve appeart; to l)e able to conduct impulses Jmlli ways). 'J'luus, if we compress the ulnar nerve at the elbow joint, we feel the painful impression conveyed to the terminal filaments of the nerve supplying the little finger and the idnar side of the ring finger. We also find an example of the same pheuomenoir in connection Avith hip joint disease in its earlier stages; for at first the jsatient does not feel pain in the hip joint, but on the inner side of the knee or in the knee joint itself So also in spinal caries, pain is felt at the hip, and this may put the incautious Surgeon off the scent; also in kidney diseases, pain is often felt in the bladder or testicle. Pain at the inner side of the knee is also felt in disease of the sigmoid fiexiu-e, from irritation of the Obturator Nerve, or in any other condition in- volving this nerve in any part of its course, as caries of the lower lumbar vertebrae, psoas abscess, sarcoma of the bones or soft parts, and obturator hernia, and, in cases where there is an accessory obturator, femoral hernia as well. This is no doubt due to the fact that the obturator nerve supplies sensory filaments to both the hip and knee joints; and also because there is frec|uently found on the inner side of the lower third of the thigh, a plexus of nerves known as the "obturator plexus," which is formed by filaments from the internal cutaneous, long saphenous, and obturator nerves. The pain at this spot is most marked when the disease begins in the head of the hone, as the obturator nerve enters the round ligament, and is in this case, therefore, early affected. Besides the obturator nerve, the great sciatic (through its branches) also supplies both the hip and knee joints. By Morbus Coxae is meant strumous arthritis of the hip joint, whether it begins in the bones or the synovial membrane. When it begins in the soft parts, it is called the arthritic form; in the acetabulum, the acetalmlar; and in the head of the femur, the femoral. It 1ms been divided for convenience into various stages. 1. The Inflammatory Stage, probably accompanied Avith some synovitis and softening of the structures round the joint, and the limb a.ssumcs that jiositiou where the cavity can liold most with the least tension. The signs of this stage are—{<() FJiwitm, as in166 Applied Anatomy: this position there is greatest general relaxation, and the cavity holds most. (Jl) Ahdudion, which relaxes tlie outer limb of the ilio- femoral ligament and upper part of tlie capsule, {c) Krersinn, which relaxes the inner head of the same ligament, and the horizontal posterior fibres of the capsule, (r?) Apparent lengthening, from the tilting down of the pelvis on tliat side; the anterior superior spine moves dowmvards, forwards, and inwards. Tliis is because the flexion and the abduction raise the foot ofl" the ground and destroys the parallelism of the two limbs; hence, when the patient walks, to enable the foot to reach the ground and also to restore that parallelism which is necessary for walking, the pelvis tilts. Fig. 160, Hip Joint Disease. Axis of Pelvis. Pcsitiou of Knee, as patient lies witli liis Back ilat on the table. Fig. 161. Hip Joint Disease. Psoas. Axis of Pelvis. 'I'o slinw the Lumhar Curve, when the Knee, lies flat on the tnlile. To detect the tilting of the pelvis draw one line from the xiphoid cartilage through the umbilicus to the symphysis pubis, and another between the two anterior superior spines. In health these lines should cross each other at rigid angle>^. (e) Lordosit^—this is because the hip joint is fixed by muscles in the flexed position, and to overcome this disadvantage the lumbar vertebra? move instead, and are also curved forwards. This is well seen when the patient is laid on a firm table on his back ; as he lies in this position his knee is bout upwards (Fig. 160), and on attcraptmg to bring the knee down level with the table the lumbar spine becomes hollow, because the pelvis moves Avith the femur (Fig. 101). Besides these symptoms J107 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. there are others, such as the limitation of abduction, wasting of tlio hiiih, flattening of the buttock, and obliteration of the gluteal fold; the flattening of the buttock and the obliteration of the gluteal fold are partly due to the flexed jDosition of the limb, as well as to atrophy of the glutei. The fold in the groin will also bo partially obliterated, on account of the swelling. The muscles round the joint, especially the adductors, are firmly contracted, to steady the diseased part: the muscles know that the joint is diseased even before the patient is aware of it. In the very early stage of the disease the symptoms are often ill-marked, the child scarcely complains, and probably has only a slight limp when walking. 2. Second Stage.—This corresponds to yielding of the capsule, probably abscess formation, but no destruction of the bone. The signs are—{a) Adduction—some say, because the posterior part of the capsule gives way; others, that it is because the adductors are reflexly thrown into spasm. (I!) Inversion—this is not very easily explained; if the head of the bone were dislocated back- wards through the softened posterior part of the capsule, one could understand it. It may be that the external rotators are inhibited, and the internal, supplied by the superior gluteal nerve (tensor fasciai femoris, gluteus minimus, and anterior half of the gluteus medius), reflexly thrown into spasm, (c) Apparent Shortening— this is from tilting of the pelvis, so as to bring the diseased limb parallel with its fellow as the patient lies in bed. The anterior superior spine moves upwards, backwards, and outwards. The Jtexion of the first stage is increased, and, if the disease be left untreated, wiU go on increasing till the knee touches the umbilicus, or even the opposite anterior superior spine. This, of course, cannot be the position in which the joint "holds most," nor can it be due to reflex contraction of the muscles. 3. Th i rd Stage—In this stage the limb is pretty much in the same position as in the second stage, but there is now reed shortening; this results fronr the gradual destruction of the head and neck of the femur, or dislocation of the bone backwards, and tliis may occur even though a light weight is applied to the limb. The top (if the great trochanter ascends above jSTklaton'.s line; this test is very easily applied in these cases, because the cliild naturally turns over towards the soiind side, so that one can readily drawApplied Anatomy: 168 a line between the two bony points. The natural cure of this condition is by ankylosis, and care must be taken lest this occur, as it is apt to do, in the flexed and abducted position. Should it occur the effects are minimised by the production of a lumbar curve (lordosis). Hip joint disease must be diagnosed in the early stage from the diseases and injuries that cause abduction and eversion of the thigh (see vol. ii., page 170), and in the later stages from conditions that cause adduction and inversion, as the backward dislocation of the femur at the hip joint, which, indeed, may be but a result of the hip disease. It must also be distinguished from suppuration of the bursa under the gluteus maximus over the great trochanter; in this condition there is great pain, on pressure, over the great trochanter, as the diseased area is between the surface and the bone, but not, as a rule, Avhen pressure is made on the knee or heel, nor by direct pressure on the head of the bone just below Poupart's ligament. In actual hip disease there will be pain, on pressure, in all the three situations. Pus, in the arthritic and femoral forms of hip disease, usually passes behind, as the posterior part of the capsule is thinnest; it then comes forwards beneath the gluteus medius and minimus, tensor fasciaj femoris, and upper part of the sartorius, and forms a collection below the anterior superior spine. It may then pass down, if unchecked, and open behind the ilio-tibial band, a little above the middle of the thigh. In the acetabular form of the disease the pus collects between the bone and pelvic fascia and sheath of the obturator internus; the fascia thickens and prevents its passage downwards, hence it makes its way up to the pelvic brim, perforates the attachment of the pelvic fascia to that part, and points above or under Poupart's ligament. It may sometimes pass along the tendon of the obturator internus and point behind, or even pass into the rectum. When a "psoas" abscess forms from hip disease, it is probably due to a connnunica- tion between the bursa under the psoas tendon and the cavity of the hip joint. While the Surgeon must be on his guard, in cases where the knee joint is complained.of, rather than the hip where the actual disease is situated, not to be misled in his diagnosis and treatment, yet he must bear in mind that hofh knee and hip may be diseased; the rule is, tliat if, in examining the169 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. joint tlio paticut coniiilains of, suflicient ohjedive signs of disease are not found there to account for tlie subjective sensations, then loolc higlier up; the same remark applies to spinal caries simulating hip joint disease—our motto in both cases being " Excelsior." Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis.—This is the articulation between the cartilage-coated surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. It is an amphiarthroidal joint, and there is sometimes a delicate synovial membrane. The Ligaments are—(1) The anterior sacro-iliac, which is very thin and passes between the two bones; (2) the 2^osterior sacro-iliac, wliich is a very strong ligament, the fibres being partly oblique and partly horizontal—the oblique part is attached to the posterior superior iliac spine. The joint is supplied by the superior gluteal, from the lumbo-sacral cord, and branches from the sacral nerves. The lumbo-sacral cord and the obturator nerve pass over the front of the joint, and are early affected in disease of the articulation. Sacro-iliac Disease.—In disease of this joint, unlike hip joint disease, the limb is not flexed (unless the psoas muscle is involved as well); it, very constantly, seems longer than its fellow, due to tilting forwards and rotation downwards of the whole side of the jjelvis. There is pain when the iliac crests are grasped and attempts made to force them asunder or together, and also when the pelvis is compressed laterally. There will also probably be pain along the branches of the anterior crural, obturator, and great sciatic nerves; there is further marked pain when direct pressure is made on the joint, just internal to the posterior superior iliac spine. The joint is painful luJiether the jpatient stands or sits, in this respect differing from hip disease, where the patient can sit with comfort. The fact that the hip can be fully extended, and when flexed there is neither rigidity nor pain in moving the hip joint, provided the sacro-iliac be kept still, will exclude hip joint disease. Pus from this joint comes forward through the anterior sacral ligaments, and very usually presents as an iliac abscess somewhere between the femoral vessels and the the anterior superior iliac spine. It may, however, pass into the sheath of the psoas when the limb will assume a flexed position, or it may pass along the vessels and nerves passing through the great sacro-sciatic foi 'amen and point in the buttoclc, or through tlie tliyroid Ibramen,Applied Anatomy: 170 along the obturator vessels and nerves, to tlie inner side of the thigh, sometinies also into the ischio-rectal fossa, and niaj^ even open into the gut itself. The following are the more important diseased conditions that may cause flexion of the thigh—Psoas abscess and primarj^ psoitis, typhlitis and peri-typhlitis, peri-nephritis and peri-nephritic abscess, inflammation of the bursa under the ilio-psoas tendon, acute inflam- mation of the deep lymphatic glands of the groin, and adhesions of the prepuce to the glans penis in boys. In cases of supposed hip disease these various conditions must be first excluded. In the case of adhesions of the prepuce to glans simulating hip disease the irritation is probably conveyed through the prostatic plexus of the sympathetic—twigs from which just terminate at the corona glandis—to the hypogastric plexus, and thence to the third and fourth lumbar nerves, and from that to the muscles concerned. The conditions that specially cause flexion and abduction of the thigh are—(1) Early stage of hip joint disease; (2) backward dislocations at the hip, and dislocation into the foramen ovale; (3) diseased conditions of the psoas muscle or fascia; and (4) the enlargement of the glands of the groin from diseases of foot or genitals (Chiene). In the female, during pregnancy, the cartilaginous coverings of the sacro-iliac and the pubic articulations become softer and laxer, and a delicate synovial membrane appears, or, if already present, enlarges. DEEP FASCIA OF THE THIGH. The deep fascia of the thigh, from its great extent, is known as the fascia lata. It is attached above to the body of the pubes and pubic arch, Poupart's ligament, the crest of the ilium, and margin of the sacrum and coccyx; it passes downwards, forming a complete sheath for the whole of the thigh, which varies in thickness at different parts, and is firmlij attached below to all the prominent points around tlie knee joint, such as the tuberosities of the femur and tibia, and head of the fibula. After this, it forms the deep fascia of the leg, but there is no direct communication between the sheath of the muscles of the thigh and tliat of tlic muscles of the leg; and, on account of this firm connection of tlieSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 171 fas!cia to the bony prominences aronncl the knee joint, fluid matter, siieli as jius, gatliering about the joint will necessarily tend to pass upwards. At the outer side of the limb there is a specially strong band known as the ilio-tihial hand whicli stretches from the ilium above, to the head of the tibia below, and into which are inserted the greater part of the gluteus maximus and the whole of the tensor fascia! feinoris, and through it these two muscles act indirectly on the knee joint, and are believed to be specially brought into use in maintaining the erect posture. From the deep surface of the fascia, ensheathing processes are given off to every muscle, blood vessel, and nerve in the limb; two of the processes given off are specially strong, and are known as the inter-muscular septa. The external septum is the stronger, and extends from the insertion of the gluteus maximus along the outer side of linea aspera to the outer condyle of the femur, along tlie outer edge of the popliteal surface of that bone. It separates the vastus externus in front, from the biceps behind. The internal septum is thinner, and extends from the lesser trochanter, along the inner side of the linea aspera and popliteal surface of the femur, to the inner condyle; it separates the vastus internus from the adductor muscles, and is incomplete at one point to allow the passage of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space, where they become the popliteal vessels. It is possible, therefore, that matter forming around or in the joint, and escaping on account of destruction of its ligaments, and collecting in the upper part of the popliteal space behind, between those layers, and beneath the general sheath of the limb, would find its way up the limb towards the troclianters, by passing along the fibrous tunnel formed by the vessels in their passage through the septum. But there is another M'ay in which pus may pass from the knee joint up to the trochanter minor. There is a considerable portion of the inner siu-face of the shaft of the femur, extending from thf^ small trochanter above, to tlie condyles below, and from half-an-inch to tliree-fourths of an inch in breadth, from which no muscular fd)res arise. This interval lies between the origins of the crureus and the vastus internus, and is bridged over l)y tlie conjoined fibres of these muscles. In suppuration, there- fore, witliiu th() joint, where the suppurative action destroys or perforates the ligaments, or the large synovial membrane of theApplied Anatomy: 172 articulation, the escaped pus easily finds its way up the thigh in the direction named. There is also a third septum interposed between the adductor muscles and the flexor group. In this way the thigh is divided into three fascial compartments, each containing its own group of muscles, and each group of muscles with its special nerve : thus we have the extensor group in front, supplied loy the anterior crural nerve; the adductor group, on the inner side, supplied by the obturator nerve; the flexor group behind, supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Fig. 162. Section of Thigh.—(From Cunninqham.) c Diagram to show how the Tliigh is subdivided into three compartments by its general aponeurotic investment and the three Inter-muscular Septa, which pass inwards from it to tlie Linea Aspera of the Femur. a. Internal Inter-muscular Septum. c. External luter-muscular Septum. h. The third Septum, which is interposed between the Adductor Muscles and the Flexor Muscles. Each compartment contains its own group of muscles, and with each group a particular nerve is associated. The Internal or Long Saphenous Vein.—This vein lies in the subcutaneous tissue, above the deep fascia; it commences on the inner side of the dorsum of the foot, ascends in front of the inner malleolus, and along the inner side of the leg, behind the inner edge of the tibia, and at tlie knee passes hehind the inner condyle of the femur; it then jjasses up the inner side of the thigh, at first following the course of the sartoiius muscle, I)asses through the saphenous opening, and empties itself into theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. ^r.^ femoral vein, ubuut an iiiuh aud a lialf below PourAirr's ligament. TJelow the knee it is accomiiauiod by the internal saphenous nerve, and a good deal of the pain and discomfort felt in varix of this vein is believed to be due to pressure on this nerve. Varix is due to a want of balance between the internal and external pressure, aud takes place more especially in cases Avhere tlie backward pressure is increased, and the power of resistance lessened from any cause. Treatment.—Always treat them, in the first instance, as a Physician, not as a Surgeon, by removing all causes of backward pressure, as loaded bowels; and give external support by elastic Avebbing, put on hefovc the iMticnt (jets out of lied in the morning—i.e., Avhile his legs are still in the horizontal position. Operative Measures.—(1) By Open Incisions, and through this cut out a part of the vein; this may be done in cases Avhere a single vein only is involved, but Avith strict antiseptic precautions. (2) By Subcutaneous Methods—{a) Multiple Suh- i-utaneous Ligature (Duncan), Avith prepared catgut or carbolised silk ; this can only be done in cases Avhere the vein is mobile and the tissues soft; {b) Injection of Coagulants, Avhere the tissues are hard and brawny, and the vein fixed and sunk as in a mould uf plaster of Paris. Many inject ferric chloride or carbolic acid, or use electrolysis; in the treatment by injection or electrolysis, nlwaij!^ cat off the vein, by a bandage, from the general circulation for at least half-an-iiour. Varicose veins occasionally " burst." 'When this happens, the patient Avill soon bleed to death unless prompt measures are adopted. In tliis case the blood iloM's chiefly from the cardiac side, not from the arterial side ; this is because the valves above the rupture arc all incompetent, so that the blood gushes doAvn directly from the abdominal veins. The first thing to be done is to place a finger on the bleeding point aud then make the patient lie doAvn flat on his back, and after that elevate the leg; for if the leg be elevated ever so little above the patient's body, the bleeding stops at once, as blood cannot run up-hill. To stop it permanently, WG may then apply a pad of dry lint or avooI Avith a bandage; or, if in tlie country and nothing else at hand, roll a piece of fiat slate-stone, or a penny, into a handkerchief, and bind it firmly over the ruijtured spot.ylpplied Anatomy: CHAPTER XXXIII. THE LOWER EXTREMITY ( Coidiuned ). POPLITEAL SPACE. Tuis i.s ;i diaiuoiul-sliajDecl cavity situated at tiic Ijack of the knee joint. Boundaries. — (1) The external superior — the biceps; {'!) tlic internal superior — tlie semi - tendinosus, semi - mem- branosus, and, furtlier back, the gracilis and sartorius; (3) the external inferior—tlic outer head of the gastrocnemius and tlie plantaris; and (4) the internal inferior — the inner head of the gastrocnemius. Tire roof is formed by the dense popliteal fascia; and the floor is formed by the popliteal surface (trigone) of the femui', the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and the popliteus, covered by its fascia. Contents.—(1) The small sciatic nerve; (2) the internal and external popliteal nerves, and their branches; (3) the popliteal artery, with its branches; (4) the popliteal vein, with its tributaries, especially the external or short saphena vein; (5) the articular braucli of the obturator nerve; (6) fat and areolar tissue; and (7) four or five lymphatic glands, deeply placed beside the great vessels. It is important to note that there is a layer of fatty tissue, of some thickness, interi)osed between the artery and the trigone of the femur, but that the vessel lies close to the tibia. This is probably the reason Avliy trigone-iiecrosis so rarely causes ulceration of the pojiliteal artery. Abscess in the Popliteal Space may arise as a result of inflammation of the lymphatic glands, due to poisoned sores on the outer aspect of the foot; the pus iu this case cannot reach the surface through the dense fascia forming the roof of the sjjace, and it therefore tends to burrow in other directions. It may pass upSiirgiol/, Medical, and Of^crntivc. 175 tho thigh, tiloug tlic shoath of the great sciatic ucrvc, or along tlic vessels through the opening in the adductor magmis; it may also ulcerate into the popliteal vessels or open into the joint; it may also pass down the leg, along the course of the great vessels and nerves. The popliteal space is the second most common seat of Aneurism, and the internal popliteal nerve being pressed upon, gives rise to " rheumatic painsthe aneurism may open into the knee joint. The Trigone of tlie Femur is very frequently the seat of " acute necrosis;" the process of separation in tliis case is cccecdiiujlij prolonged, as we are apt to have caries, necrosis, hypertrophic ostitis and periostitis and sclerosis all together; it may go on for ten or twelve years, and art can do little, as there is very rarely a distinct necrosis to remove. The ulcerative process occasionally opens into the popliteal artery. In opening abscesses in the popliteal S2)ace, as in "acute necrosis," the incision is made on the outer side, to avoid the popliteal artery, and parallel witli the anterior border of the biceps, so as to avoid the synovial pouch and yet open into the space. In the young, the periosteum, except at the points where muscles are inserted, is but very loosely attached to the bone. It is probably for this reason, together witli the fact that the posterior ligament of the knee joint is firmly attached to the lower end of the femur, that trigone-necrosis is so frequent; any hyper-extension of the knee joint, as when a person falls forwards, puts a great and sudden strain on the l)Ostcrior ligament, and this is apt to tear away the 2>criosteum, to a greater or less extent, from tlie trigone. Synovial Cysts (Baker) are common in the popliteal space, and they may or may not communicate with tlic cavity of tlic joint, and for this reason they must not bo interfered -with rashly, and always Avith strict antiseptic precautions; such cysts often occur in cases of osteo-arthritis, Cuarcot's disease, and ordinary rheumatic affections, and may sinudate an aneurism, as they may lie over the popliteal artery, and be alfected liy its pulsations. Tlie cyst may reach as low as tlie middle of tlie calf. Similar cysts also occur in connection with the shoulder joint, and may pass along tho long head of the l)iceps as far as the middle of the arm. Chronic abscesses often fullow an exactly similar course.Applied Anatomy: 170 The External or Short Saphenous Vein.—This vein begins on tlie outer side of tlie doi'sum of the foot, ascends hehind the outer malleolus, along the outer border of the tendo achillis, and reaches the middle of the posterior aspect of the leg, perforates the deep fascia at the lower part of the popliteal space, and empties itself into the popliteal vein; from the middle of the calf downwards, it is acconipanied by the external saphenous nerve. This nerve is formed by tlie union of the ramus communicam tibialis, from the internal popliteal, with the ramus communicans fihularis, from the external. (The branch from the internal popliteal is called by some the external or short saphenous nerve, and the branch from the external—merely a communicating branch—the communicans jjcronei.) The lymphatics accompanying the short saphenous vein, for the most part, enter the glands in the popliteal space, but some pass to the vertical set of the inguinal glands. Division of Contracted Tendons at the Knee Joint. — Tu remedy the deformity of contraction of the knee joint, division of tlie hamstring tendons is sometimes necessary. When tlie knee is diseased, and if left alone, it tends to become flexed more and more till the heel actually touches the buttock; this fact alone makes all the theories, about the contraction being due to reflex spasm of the muscles, untenable. Not only, however, is it Jfexed, but it tends to become partially luxated backwards, and at the same time rotated otitwards by the biceps. The biceps is inserted into the head of the fibula; the other two are towards the inner side of the joint—the semi-tendinosus being inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of tlie tibia, the scnu-menibranosus into a groove in the back of the internal tuberosity of the tibia. It is the biceps tendon, however, that most frequently requires division ; and it is in the division of this tendon that the greatest care is necessary. In division of the biceps tendon, the structures tiiat must be avoided are—(1) The external popliteal or peroneal nerve: and (2) the inferior external articular arterj^ In connection with the other two tendons Ave have merely to avoid the articular arteries, which, however, are not in very close relation to the tendons in question. The external popliteal nerve passes obliciuely dowuAvards and outwards, lying close to the tendon of the biceps, and passes between it and the outer head of the gastrocnemius, to a pointSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 177 l)elo\v the head of the tibula, whore it divides iuto its tenniiuil brauclies. Iii dividing the biceps, it is better to make a small external incision and cut down Tipon it directly, ratber than to risk division of the external popliteal nerve. Should this nerve be divided, the muscles in front and on the outer side of the leg arc paralysed—muscles supplied by the anterior tibial and musculo- cutaneous nerves. In such a case, there will be "foot drop," as well as inversion—the toes being pointed and drooping, the heel and the inner border of the foot raised. The Articular Arteries are arranged as follows: — (1) The superior internal passes round the femur, and above the inner condyle, under the tendons of the adductor magnus, semi-mem- branosus, and semi-tendinosus muscles; (2) the superior external passes round just above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the bicej)s; (3) the inferior internal passes down below the internal tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the lateral ligament and the tendons of the sartorius, semi - tendinosus, and the gracilis ; and (4) the inferior external passes above the head of tlie Jibula (and, therefore, higher up than the internal) beneath the external lateral ligament and tendon of the biceps. The biceps tendon is divided near its insertion into the head of the fibula ; the other tendons are then put upoii the stretch and also divided near their insertions. The knife must in all cases be entered Avith its point directed from the middle line of the leg and close to the tendon to be divided. Bursse In the Region of the Knee Joint.—There are eight altogether—two in front and six behind. In front—(a) The bursa patelhc, situated in front of the patella, being the structure afiected in "housemaid's knee." (Jne or both may be affected in a house- maid, the exciting cause being kneeling. When both bursic arc enlarged and thickened, Avithout a history of kneeling, the cause is probably syphilitic. {!>) Another bursa, placed between the ligamentum patella3 and the upper part of the tubercle of the tibia. In acute infiamraation of this bursa active extension of the knee joint is painful, the ligamentum patellae is slightly too prominent, and there is a swelling on each side of it, Avith iluctuation from side to side. Behind there arc six—four on the outer side and tAvo on the inner. Outer side—(a) One betM'een the popliteus tendon178 Applied Anatomy: and the tibia, a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the knee joint; (6) one between the jDopliteus tendon and the external lateral ligament; (c) one between the biceps tendon and tlie external ligament, over which the external popliteal nerve passes on its way round the head of the fibula j and (cZ) one between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the femur. Inner side— (a) A large bursa between the femur and the inner head of the gastrocnemius and tendon of . semi-membranosus—the "^;oj?jZiYe«Z bursa;" this one very often communicates with the joint. lu effusion into this bursa when the knee joint is extended, it becomes full and tense and projects into the popliteal space, but is much less prominent and tense when the joint is flexed. If it com- municates with the joint, it may be reduced by steady pressure, the fluid being squeezed out of it into the cavity of the articulation. {h) One between tlie semi-membranosus and tibia. The bursii; on the inner side are more frequently enlarged than those on the outer side. Note, that synovial cysts arc common near joints the seat of osteo-arthritis, or of " Chahcot's disease," as the knee and shoulder. Diseases of Bursas, e.g., the bursa patelhe.—The usual aflcctions are inflammatory in nature, and are known as acute and chronic bursitis. Acute Bursitis may be—(a) Serous, or {h) Supimratkc. For Acute Serous, rest, fomentations, and, later, elastic pressure or tapping is required; for Acute Suppuratice, the only treat- ment is free incision, and drainage with an ordinary india-rubber tube—in this case catgut or horse-hair drains should not be used. Chronic Bursitis may be—(a) Serous, with or without "melon seed" bodies; or (&) Lijmphy, where layer after layer of fibrin is laid down on the interior of the bursa; this varies from slight thickening of the wall to almost complete solidity tumour). The less marked forms usually contain serous fluid, Avith or without "melon seed" bodies; sometimes it contains blood in its interior. Tor Chronic Serous Bursitis pure and simple, elastic pressure alone, or applied after tapping, may cure; if not, make a free incision and drain with horse-hair, catgut, or the ordinary rubber tube; a leash of catgut is an excellent plan, provided the ends of the strands are Irpt moist (CniENE). For the chronic serous form, with thickened walls and " melon seed " bodies, incision and drainage is the only179 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. troutment, as the sccd-likc bodies must be got rid of first; for tlio solid lyuipby form (biirml tumour), tlie only treatment is excision. " Loose bodies " in bursa)—e.(j., in the pre-patellar bursa—are very often not " loose" at all, but hang from the walls of the sac by pedicles of varying length. They do not develop from synovial fringes, us a bursa has no fringes, but are outgrowths of granula- tion tissue, that gradually become more and more fibrous ami pedunculated. After excision of the bursa patellro, patients often complain very bitterly of a severe dragging pain in the part; this is due to the unavoidable injury to the rich pre-patellar plexus of nerves, which is formed by branches from the long saphenous, internal, and middle cutaneous nerves. As the Avound cicatrises, these nerves are dragged upon, and hence the jjain. The Internal Popliteal Nerve suj^plies directly the gastroc- nemius (both heads), the plantaris, soleus, and poplitcus; through its continuation (the posterior tibial) it supplies the tibialis pos- ticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus liallucis. The posterior tibial divides into the plantar nerves, which sujiply the muscles of the sole of the foot. "When the internal pojilitcal nerve is paralysed, therefore, all these muscles are also paralysed; it is impossible to extend the ankle (pointing the toes), or to flex the toes, or raise one's self on tiptoe, and impossible, therefore, to walk or dance properly; inversion of the foot is also impaired, as the posterior tibial muscle is paralysed. Internal Condyle of Femur. — In strumous arthritis of the knee this condyle seems unduly prominent, so much so as almost to suggest the presence of malignant disease of the bone. This l>i'oiuincnce is due to—(I) Atrophy of the vastus internus chiefly; (i') tlic possible sliglit enlargement of the, Ijonc itself, from ostitis; (3) tliickening of the synovial membrane and other tissues over it; and (-1) a tendency to knock-knee, due to relaxation of the ligaments. GENU VALGUM. Genu Valgum, Knock, or X-Knee, is a condition brought about by altered pressure relations at the two sides of the knee joint; it is low ut tlic inner side and high at the outer, and hence the increased growth at the inner side, wliich is an attempt to restoreApplied Anatomy: ISO Ibo i)ropcr relations, fur, like water, tension tends to find its own level. Three steps are usually recognised in this process (I) Tension and elongation of the tissues at the inner side of tlie joint; (2) relaxation and contracture of the tissues at the outer side; and (3) bony deformity — the increased growth being due to elongation of the shaft, not the epiphysis (Mickulicz). There is no antero-posterior thickening of the femur, for when the knee is bent the limb appears quite straight. Clinically, Professor Chiene divides cases of knock-knee into two classes—(1) Those that are growing worse; and (2) those where no change is going on, and the parts have become solidified permanently in the deformed position. For the first of these classes the conditions must be reversed; the pressure or tension at the inner side of the joint must be increased, while that at the outer side must be diminished. This is to be accomplished by some form of external splint, and then an clastic bandage to draw the knee towards the splint; the most important point in putting up tliis apparatus is to avoid rotation of the limb. In the second class of cases some operative form of treatment is indicated. 1. Ogston's Operation.— Flex the knee as fully as possible and enter a long tenotomy kuife, flatwise, two or three inches aboA'e the inner condyle, and pass it forwards and outAvards till its point is felt in the inter-condyloid notch; next turn the edge of the knife towards the bone, and divide the soft jmrts as the knife is withdrawn. Now introduce an Adams's saw, and divide the condyle for about three-quarters of its thickness; then remove the saw and forcibly straighten the limb, when the condyle is broken ofl" and slips iqjwards over the sawn surface. The great objection to this operation is that it opens into the knee joint, and is espe- cially apt, therefore, to lead later to chronic rheumatic arthritis. This is avoided by 2. Professor Chiene's Operation. — He removes a Avedge, by means of a chisel and mallet, from the base of the inner condyle, but in such a way that the knee joint is not opened into. The instruments required for this operation are the same as in the next operation, and the part of the femur operated upon is also the same as in Macewen's operation. It is a small, triangular- shaped, muscular interval, the bone forming its floor (Fig. 163).Surgical, Medical, and Operative. LSI Anteriorly, it is bounded by the fibres of tlie vastus intern us; posteriorly, by the tendon of the adductor niagnns and a branch of the anastomotica magna; and below, by the superior internal articular artery. The lower and posterior walls especially must be avoided during the operation, lest these vessels be wounded. He removes the wedge by Macewen's mallet and "chisel." He makes an incision of sufficient length in front of and above the " adductor tubercle," through Avhich he removes the Avedge; the long axis of the wedge runs downwards and outwards towards the iutercondyloid notch. After its removal the limb is bent straight, as in Ogston's operation. Fig. 163. Genu Valgum Triangle—Right Side. V.istus Interims.... Floor of Tri,ingle, formed by the Femur Br,aiich of the An.is- tiiiuotic.a M.agiia. ..Adductor Magnus. I Superior Intenial Articular Artery. 3. Macewen's Operation.—Instruments required—(1) Along, straight bistoury; (2) means to command the circulation through the limb, as Esmarch's elastic bandage and Petit's tourniquet, for the operation should be bloodless; (3) a set of osteotomes, or bone chisels; (4) wooden mallet, about a pound and a half in weight; (5) a bag of moi.st sand; also (0) .sponges, needles, horse-hair sutures, carbolic spray, etc. The limb is first rendered bloodless by Ksm.\rch's elastic bandage and Petit'.s tourniquet applied above tlio knee. The part is then soaked witli 1 to 20, .shaved if neces- sary, and the spray directed on the seat of the operation.182 Applied Anatomy. Place of Incision.— On the inner side of the limb at the point where the two following lines intersect:—(a) A line drawn a finger's-breadth above the level of the upper border of the external condyle round the limb to the inner side; and a line drawn parallel with, and half-an-inch in front of, the tendon of the Fig. 164. Fig. 165. Macewen's Osteotome. A Chisel. Observe how tlie point of a "chisel" differs from that of an "osteotome.'' adductor magnu.s. At this point a longitudinal incision is made of sufficient size to readily admit the osteotome, the knife cutting at once to the bone, the knee joint being previously bent, and its outer side laid on the sand bag. One assistant steadies the thigh, while another steadies tlie leg. Before withdrawing the luiife, the183 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. largest " osteotome " is introduced Jongihullnalhj by its side, till it reaches the bone (Fig. 1G4); tlie knife is then withdrawn, and the osteotome turned transversely to the long axis of the femur, but in doing so do not press too heavily upon it, lest the periosteum be stripped off the bone. Ly means of the mallet and osteotome the bone is then divided, the operator bearing in mind that the outer side of the femur, in this situation, is much broader in the antero- posterior diameter than the inner, and directing the osteotomes ac- cordingly, and always working away from the popliteal artery—i.e., from behind forwards, and towards the outer side. As the incision is carried through the bone, finer-pointed osteotomes may be used till about two-thirds of the bone is divided. After each blow with the mallet the osteotome must be moved a little from side to side in the longitudinal axis of the limb, to prevent its point becoming fixed. After the bone is divided sufficiently, a sponge saturated with 1 to 40 is jslaced over the wound, the Surgeon holding this in one hand, which he at the same time employs as a fulcrum, while the other hand grasps the limb lower down and, using it as a lever, bends the bone in an inward direction till it is brought into a straight line, or even slightly past it, so as to make it a little bow-legged (genu varum). Another very good plan is, I think, to first bend the bone doiunioards over the sand-bag on Avhich it is resting till it cracks, when it can readily be brought into proper position by bending it in an opposite direction. It is always better to slightly overdo the straightening, making the patient rather bow-legged; in this way it is quite possible, and even likely, that a slight gap is left on the outer side of the femur, but covered by periosteum. The Structures divided in this operation are the skin, super- ficial fascia, cellular tissue and fat, deep fascia, and a part of the vastus internus, periosteum, and bone. No bone is removed, the bony tissue being simply condensed at each side of the incision made by the osteotome. The incision is above the epiphysis, so tliat it is not injured—the epiphysis being on a level with the "adductor tiibercle." The flexing of the kuee carries the synovial pouch down out of the way, and besides, the mode of entering the osteotome wouhl push it aside. The femoral artery is well out of the way; the superior internal articidar runs below the line of theApplied Anatomy: 184 incision, and the anaf?toniotLca magna runs parallel with and close to the tendon of the adductor magnus, and is, therefore, hehind the incision. Dr Duncan perforins this operation on the outer side, and when the limb is straightened there is a cuneiform gap left, which will fill up with new hone. By this means tlie bone is more easily broken, and the straightening more easily overdone; the wound also is on the outer side, and well out of the way, there- fore, of any subsequent pressure by splints or bandages. Whatever method be adopted, it is of the greatest importance to do it with the strictest antiseptic precautions, as all jJi'oduce a compound fracture of the femur, close to the knee joint. After Treatment.—A single or double long splint is applied, according as one or both knees have been operated upon; it may also be necessary to apply extension by means of the weight and pulley. There is a short shelf attached to the lower edge of the long splint opposite the knee, passing inwards, and on this the back of the joint rests. The leg must be securely bandaged to the splint, and, as usual, in knoclc-knee cases, care taken to avoid all rotation of the limb. CLUB FOOT. There are four primary varieties of this deformity—(1) Talipes varus (or, more usually, talipes equino-varus; the sole of the foot looking inwards, and the heel being usually a little raised); (2) talipes equinus (in this form the heel alone is raised); (3) talipes valgus; and (4) talipes calcaneus. It may either be congenital or acquired, and is said to be more common in boys. It is very often a result of infantile paralysis, a disease attacking children usually about a year and nine months old, and due to destruction of the cells in the anterior horn of the spinal cord. When congenital, one ought always to look for spina bifida, evident or occult. 1. Talipes Varus.^—This is the most common form of congenital club foot—or rather talipes equino-varus, as it is rarely pure. When it is congenital, usually both feet are affected, and it is frequently associated with spina bifida. In some cases, however, it is ac- quired, and, when this is the case, usually only one foot is alfected. In early foital life the back of the loAvcr extremity lies in contactSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 185 with tbo belly wall, but as dovelopiuent proceeds it rotates so that the calf comes to look backwards and the sole of the foot downwards. Talipes e(iuino-varus may be regarded as due to an imperfect rotation, and so also the fact that all children seem to be born with the first stage of club foot, and also of bandy leg. The natural position of the foot is talipes equino-varus. In congenital cases of one foot, it is twice as often found in the right foot, and most frequently in boys; further, it is hereditary, beius transmitted through the male side. Causes—Contraction of (rt) tibialis anticus and posticus, (5) the muscles of the calf, and (f) the plantar fascia. It may be caused by paralysis or spasm; it is usually from paralysis of certain groups of muscles; and the constantly acting tonus of the opposing group, together Avith the natural position of the limb, carry the foot round. The great cause is infantde paralysis. Changes produced—(1) The heel is raised and the toes pointed; (2) there is inversion and adduction of the foot; (3) contraction of all tissues, soft and hard, on the inner side of the sole, from constant pressure preventing groAvth; and (4) lengthening of all the tissues on the outer side, because there is too little pressure. Treatment. — The treatment is division of the contracted structures; as to the order in Avhich they should be divided there is considerable variety of opinion. Mr Ciiiene's excellent rule is to divide the tensest structure first, and then the next, and so on till all the resisting structures are divided, and do it at the place where they are most easily reached. A very sharp Icnife must be used as there must be no sawing movement, as this might pump in air, and, if cutting towards the skin, one is more apt to go through it. There must be some mark also on the handle of the knife to let the operator know where the cutting edge lies after it is intro- duced; it is better always to pass the knife between the skin and the tendon and cut from the skin. The assistant has three things to do—(1) He must first make the tendons tense, if they are not already so, in order to assure the o[)erator of their exact position; (2) he next relaxes the tendon while the tenotome is being introduced; and (3) makes the tendon again tense as tlic operator presses the edge of the knife against it. Tlic tendons of the til)ialis anticus and posticus require great care in tlicir division,Applied Anatomy: 186 on account of tlie close relation of the posterior tibial vessels, and the long saijhenous vein. The tendon of the tibialis anticus passes downwards and forwards to be inserted into the anterior part of the internal cuneiform bone and the base of the first metatarsal; the tendon of the tibialis posticus grooves the inner side of the posterior surface of the tibia just above the malleolus, and then passes downwards and forwards to be inserted into the tubercle of the scaphoid, and the posterior part of the internal cuneiform bone. The position of the tendons may be ascertained by trying to evert the foot, and thus making them tense, if not already rendered tense and evident by the deformity. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is divided an incli or more above the internal malleolus, in order to be well aAvay from the synovial sheath of the tendon and the dense tube of fascia, as otherwise, it is said, the divided ends might unite with the fascial sheath and so cripple the action of the muscle afterwards. In doing so be careful to avoid wounding the posterior tibial artery which lies about a finger's-breadth behind it; to save the artery, a blunt-pointed tenotomy knife should be used after the sheath lias been opened by a sharp-pointed tenotome. If the division is made higher up there is more danger of dividing the flexor longus digitorum than when it is done at the point named. In this situation the tendon lies midway between the anterior and posterior borders of the leg—a point of some importance to know when dealing with the fat legs of cliildren. Another guide in such cases is to carry the thumb or finger nail over the surface of the tibia till it just sinks over its inner border; this wiU indicate the j)osition of the tendon and the point where it should be divided. The assistant flexes and abducts to make the tendon tense, and the ojDerator then places his left thumb on the place where he is to divide it, and keeps it there till the tendon is divided; after which a dossil of corrosive wool is placed on the iiimcturc. Sometimes the posterior tibial artery is divided; this is known by the sudden blanching of the sole of the foot, and increase of bleeding from the wound; this accident is of no consequence in an infant. In older cases, however, it may be the origm of a traumatic false aneurism. To cure this perform the " old oiieration " (see vol. i., page 11). The tendon may also be divided below the internal malleolus. The tibialis anticus is divided on a level witli187 Sitrgical, Medical, and Operative, the internal malleolus; the knife is passed from the outer side of the tendon to avoid the risk of wounding the dorsal artery of the loot; but, on the other hand, equal care must be taken not to divide the trunk of the internal or long saphena vein, which lies the inner side of the tendon in question. The assistant first ibducts and extends the foot to make the tendon tense. The plantar fascia is divided, if necessary, an inch in front of its attachment to the os calcis, as at this point it is narrowest. Ey leaving the division of the tendo achillis to tlie last we have a lulcrum or fixed point, by which we can twist the foot into a })roper position. If the division of the other structures is not sufficient, then the tendo achillis must also be divided. It is divided about an inch above the os calcis, as at this point the tendon is contracted, and, further, it is above the large bursa which hes between it and the upper part of the posterior surface of the OS calcis. The knife is entered from the inner .side to avoid the posterior tibial vessels. IJesides section of ligaments and tendons, in some cases other means are necessary. We may, for example—(1) Remove the cuboid bone (Little), or take a wedge out of it. (2) "We may remove the astragalus (Lund); or (3) remove a wedge-shaped mass of bone from the tarsus (Davies-Colley). In cases where a wedge is removed, whether from the cuboid or tarsus, the piece removed must Ije wedge-shaped in two directions, wider on tlie outer than the inner side, and wider above than below. It cannot, however, ! be too strongly insisted ui^on that all operative measures are merely IweUminarii to treatment; the real treatment is to persistently keep the foot in good position for a leugtliened period by proper ijiparatus and dressings. Strictly speaking, Davies - Colley's operation .should be performed by means of an incision on the outer side of the foot only, but the operation is rendered much easier wlien a free incision is made on the inner side of the foot as well. 2. Talipes Equinus. — This form has hardly ever been known to occur as a congenital deformity, although it is the commonest acquired form. Causes—(a) Contraction of the gastrocnemius and soleus; (A) paralysis of the anterior group of muscles from infantile diseases; (/•) irritation, caused by worms; (it) nervous disturbances during teetliing; (r) abscess in the calf of leg, cripjiling theApplied Anatomy: 188 muscles of the calf; and (/) flexion of the knee and extension of the ankle during the natural cure of ankle joint disease—from not keeping the knee straight and the foot at right angles to the leg. The first phalanges are subluxated on the heads of the metatarsal bones, these latter being flexed and depressed into the sole of the foot, increasing very markedly the plantar arch: in fact, it is a reversion of the foot and mode of walking to the Digitigrade section of the Carnivora—walking on the ends of the metatarsals. In the acquired form the hollow on the sole of the foot is much greater than in the congenital form, the drop of the anterior part of the foot being also much greater. Treatment.—Division of the tendo achillis. It should be observed that both in talipes equinus and in talipes equino-varus it may be impossible to ]5ut the foot into good position at once, after the division of the tendons, etc., as the narrow posterior part of the astragalus, being persistently kept in the wider anterior part of the tibio-fibular mortise, naturally grows faster and fills np that part, and consequently it will be imjiossible, for some time, to force it back into its own narrower part of the mortise. 3. Talipes Valgus (or more usually calcaneo-valgus).—In this case the foot is everted, the outer side of the foot being raised, and sometimes the anterior part of the foot also (caJcmieo-valgtis). In this deformity the tendency, in the first instance, is to obliteration of the arches of the foot, giving rise to flat or splay foot (talijycs planus), and afterwards the outer side of the foot is raised by contraction of the peronei muscles. Causes—(«) Relaxation of the ligaments supporting the plantar arches (see vol. i., page 407), with contraction of the peronei; {h) over-fatigue in standing (and, therefore, likely to occur in young women in shops where the harharoiis custom is enforced of standing from morning till night behind tlie counter, with but little intermission), carrying heavy weights on the head, etc.; (c) sliding the foot in walking, or twisting it so as to press on its inner side; and {d) it may be liysterical. Treatment.—(a) Constitutional, aided by rubbing, galvanism, etc.; {h) if not very pronounced, it may be cured by adapting the sole of the boot so as to restore and support the arch of the foot; and (c) it may be necessary to divide the peronei tendons.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 189 Tlio peroneus tertius passes beucatli tlic anterior anuular liga- ment of tlie ankle joint, aud is inserted into the iuni'V side ol' tlic iiase of the fifth metatarsal bone; the peroneus longus lies in the groove behind the external malleolus, curves forwards and down- wards on the outer side of the os calcis below the peroneal tubercle, rurves inwards, lying in the groove of the cuboid, and passes to be inserted into the outer side of the base of the first metatarsal and internal cuneiform bones (it is inserted into the same two bones as the tibialis anticus); the peroneus brevis also lies in the groove on the back of the lower end of the fibula, but passes along the side i)f the OS calcis above the peroneal tubercle, and is inserted into the prominent tip of the fifth metatarsal bone. It is rarely neces- sary to divide these tendons; it will generally be found sufficient to forcibly draw the foot inwards so as to overcome the tension of I he pcronei, and then fixing the foot by a properly-constructed splint. If, however, it be found necessary to divide them, the li'iidons of the peroneus longus and brevis may be divided, as they lie one above the other in the groove on the back of the fibula— i.e., beliind and above the external malleolus; the tendon of the tertius may be divided near its insertion, on the outer side of the dorsum of the foot by rendering it tense and inserting a tenotomy knife between it and the skin, and dividing it in the usual manner, lu bad cases, it may be necessary also to remove a Avedge from the inner border of the foot; probably the astragalus had better be attacked, as this does not interfere with the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which would probably be cut were the wedge removed from the scaphoid. 1. Talipes Calcaneus.—In tliis form the toes are raised by I the extensors, and the patient wallvs upon his heel. It is very rare to find this form congenital (Spence), although some Surgeons say tliat it is usually congenital, and very frequently associated M'itli xpina Injida. In tlie coiu/ciiitnl foim, the anterior part of the foot points npwards and for\vards; but in tlic ao/iiired form tlic anterior part of the font droops till it almost touches tlie ^'ronnd; licnce, there is a largo hollow between the heel and llie toes. Causes—(a) Clontraction of cicatrices, following burns on the anterior aspect of the leg; (Ji) contraction of tlie flexor tendons of the ankle joint and the; extensors of tlie toes (indirect190 Applied Anatomy: flexors of the ankle joint; and (c) paralysis or crippling of the muscles of the calf. Treatment—Division (if other means fail) of the tendons that pass through the anterior annular ligament—the tibialis atiticus on the inner side of the foot, and the peroneus tertius on tlie outer side (these two are direct flexors of the ankle joint); the extensor longus digitorum and the extensor proprius hallucis (these two are indirect flexors of the ankle joint). They arc divided as they pass over the dorsum of the foot, and their position may be readily ascertained by rendering them tense. Care must be taken not to wound the dorsal artery of the foot, which will be found between the tendon of the extensor projirius hallucis on the tibial side, and the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum on its hbular side; neither of tliesc, howevei', lie close to the vessel. The anterior tibial nerve lies to the outer side of the artery. External Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve.—This is the smaller of the two divisions of the great sciatic. It descends obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space, close to the tendon of the biceps. About an inch below the head of the fibula it pierces the peroneiTs longus, and divides into the anterior tibial, musculo- cutaneous, and recurrent articular. The nerve can be most easily and safely exposed behind the head of the fibula, by using the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps as the guide. The anterior tibial gains the interosseous space by passing through the extensor longus digitorum. The Anterior Tibial Nerve supplies the tibialis auticus, extensor longus digitorum, peroneus tertius, and extensor proprius hallucis; when it is paralysed, therefore, the foot hangs down, and the toes catch the ground in walking (" foot drop"); the ankle cannot be flexed, and only partially inverted (by the tiljialis posticus); the toes can only be extended by the interossei, which, as in the hand, flex the first phalanges, and extend the other two. In the foot, this nerve supplies the extensor brevis digitorum. The Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve supplies the peroneus longus and brevis, and if paralysed, the foot cannot be everted, except to the slight extent effected by the peroneus tertius. If the external popliteal nerve be paralysed, the results will be the same as in paralysis of both, the above nerves; it is a frequent result ofSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 191 infantile paralysis, and I liave seen one case of it in an adult after typhoid fever. It may also follow accidental division of the external popliteal, while dividing the biceps tendon. Hollow Claw-foot (pes cams) is due to paralysis of the interossei, together with the short flexor and adductor of the great toe; hence, the extensors of the first phalanges have it all their own Avay. Structures at the Ankle Joint (Fig. 166).—For convenience wc begin at the internal malleolus and pass outwards over the front of the ankle joint, and thus round the ankle—(1) The tibialis an tic us Fig. 166. Left Ankle from above. Anterior Tibiixl Nerve. Extensor Proprius HuUucis. ; Anterior Tibial Vessels. : ■ Pu.-itcrior Tibial Xcrvc. Tondo Aehillis I'loxor Longus Ilalluci.s. luu.sclc; (2) extensor i^roprius hallucis; (3) anterior tibial vessels; (4) anterior tibial nerve j (5) extensor longus digitorum and the peroncus tcrtius; (G) iibula; (7) peroneus longus, with the brcvis beneath it; (8) tcndo aehillis and the tendon of the plantaris; (9) flexor longus hallucis; (10) posterior tibial nerve; (11) posterior tibial artery, with its venae comites ; (12) flexor longus digitorum ; (13) tibialis posticus j and (14) the tibia. Of course, it is only the tendons of the above muscles that we find in tliis situation. Observe, also, that the anterior crural nerve supplies all tlie mu.scles passing under the anterior annular ligament: the musculo-192 Applied Anatomy: cutaneous, those passiug under the external; the posterior tibial, those passing under the internal; and tlie muscles forming the tendo achillis, by tlie internal popliteal (Fig. 167). Fig. 167. Section of Leg.—(From Cukninuham.) a Diagram to sliow Ike osteo-fascjial coiupartiueiits of the leg. I. Tibia, /. Pibula; both of wliicli arc seen in transverse section. The general aponeurotic covering of the leg is represented fusing with the periosteum over tlie subcutaneous or inner surface of the tibia. ffi. Interosseous Membrane. h. The Inter-muscular Septum which intervenes between the Peroneal Muscles and the Extensor Longus Digitorum. c. Tlic Septum between the Peroneal Muscles and the Flexor Longus ITallucis and Soleus. Tlie three ostco-fascial compartments are mapped out and their contents indicated. The posterior compartment is subdivided into two parts by the deep laj'er of fascia (rf). As is usual in the case of muscles contained within such com- partments, each group lias its own distinctive nerve-supply. Synovial Membranes of the Foot and Ankle Joint. — They are seven in number—(1) One at the ankle joint proper; (2) one in the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; (3) o}ie in the calcaneo-talo-scaphoid articulation \ (4) one between the os calcisStirgicnl, Medical, and Operative. 193 aiul the cuboid bone; (5) one between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, and also between the cuneiform bones themselves Fig. 168. Plantar Cutaneous Nerves. External Plantar I / f...1 Internal Plantar. Communicating Bi-anch (C). Fig. 169. Dorsal Cutaneous Nerves. Musculo-Cutaneous External, or Short yaplicnoiiH— —Long Saphenous. Anterior Tibial. and the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones \ (6) one between the cuboid and the bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal ■ N194 Applied Anatomy: bones ; and (7) one between tlie internal cuneiform bone and the first metatarsal bone. The Nerves of the Toes—On the plantar aspect (Fig. 168) the ext&)'nal j)icmtar supplies one and a half toes (= the ulnar of hand); the internal plantar supplies three and a half toes (= the median nerve of the hand). On the dorsal aspect (Fig. 169), the musculo - cutaneous nerve supplies three and a half toes—all except the cleft between the first and second toes, and the outer side of the little toe. The anterior tibial supplies the cleft between the first and second toes, while the external or short saphenous nerve supplies the outer side of the little toe. The internal or long saphenous nerve may sometimes supply the inner side of the big toe, but it usually ends at the "ball" of that toe. Can this have anything to do with the " perforating ulcer" so frequently found in this situation—e.g., in locomotor ataxia? Perforating ulcer is also occasionally found in cases of spina bifida, and in diabetes. I have noticed a curious circumstance in reference to the big toe: in cases of apparently complete paraplegia from pressure on the spinal cord, the patient can often just move the big toe, but no more. I have also seen the same thing in a middle-aged man in a case of otherwise complete paralysis of one leg, the result of infantile paralysis. Bunion.—This is the formation of a false bursa over the inner aspect of the enlarged and projecting head of the first metatarsal bone; the bursa is apt to inflame and suppurate from the irritation of the boot, and may even open into the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and in old people is specially dangerous, as it may be the starting point of senile gangrene. It is caused by badly- shaped and narrow-toed boots, whereby the great toe is pressed outwards over the second (hallu.i: valgus), the pressure of the boot producing the bursa in the first instance, and afterwards causing it to inflame. When this has lasted some time the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis is displaced outwards, and acts as an adductor of the great toe (to the middle line of the foot), and so keeps up the condition. In severe cases I have seen the proximal phalanx completely dislocated from the head of the metatarsal bone,Surgical, Hfedica/, and Operative. 195 The Treatment is to get properly-shaped boots, having the inner border straight, the toe broad, and with a separate compartment for the big toe; the stocking will also require to have a separate compartment for the toe. In aggravated cases it may be necessary to perform osteotomy of the metatarsal bone near its head, an operation resembling Macewen's for genu valgum, and so bring it straiglit. When the joint is opened by suppuration it may be necessary to amputate. Hammer Toe.—In this condition the proximal phalanx is on its normal level, or but sUghtly bent up; the two distal phalanges are bent down at an acute angle, the apex of which is formed by the articulation between the first and second. It usually occurs in the second toe, as this toe is frequently longer than the others, and the boot presses it back, so that it becomes bent in the way described; when this condition lasts for any length of time it is impossible to straighten it without operative measures, on account of the contraction of the digital prolongations of the plantar fascia. In course of time, too, the flexor tendons shorten. Over the angle on the upper surface, a bunion is apt to form, inflame, and sup- purate, and may even open into the joint. In the young it may be possible to put the toe right by dividing the fascia subcutaneously opposite the first phalanx, then straighten the toe, and use projier boots afterwards. In the adult, either get proper boots with special accommodation for the bunion, or else amputate the entire toe. Some recommend excision of the head of the first phalanx, but the game is hardly worth the candle. Hallux RIgidus, or Stiff Big Toe, is a condition very frequently associated with flat foot; the toe cannot be dorsiflexed at the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and all attempts to do so are painful. For the same reason walking is painful, as at every step the big toe in the normal foot is dorsiflexed, and the jiatient therefore tends to walk on the outer border of the foot to take all movement and pressure off tlie great toe. The cause of this condition has been the subject of a good deal of discussion, but Jio definite conclusion has been arrived at; in flat-foot the head of the astragalus passes downwards, forwards, and inwards, and no doubt displaces and stretches the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, somewhat after the manner of the string of a violin over the196 Applied Atiatomy: "bridge." In treating this condition, if the flat-foot cannot he improved, or the rigidity is causing much pain, then the best treatment is to adopt Professor Chikne's plan of letting in a rigid, slightly curved steel plate into the sole of the boot, along the inner side of the foot, so as to protect the big toe from forces that tend to dorsiflex it, with, if necessary, a gutta-percha sole, to protect the whole foot, as the sole seems in many cases hyperaesthetic. But stiff big toe is not by any means ahvays a result of flat-foot, for in many cases of very aggravated forms of flat-foot the toe can be dorsiflexed to a right angle with the greatest of ease; it is quite possible that the flat-foot is a result of the stiff big toe, the patient constantly walking on the outer border of the foot, so that in this way the arch may be brought down. The second and third toes, curiously enough, appear as if they sprang from a common stalk; the cleft between them is not quite so deep, either, as in the case of the other toes. In the condition of " webbed toes," the web is most frequently found between these toes. The longest toe is the second one, and this is the predisposing cause of "hammer toe," the exciting cause being badly-fitting boots. " Dupuytren's Exostosis."—The last phalanx of the great toe is a favourite seat for the growth of an exostosis (osteoma). It is called the subungual exostosis, as it grows under the nail, pushing up that structure and making its way out below its tip. It is probably due to pressure and inflammation caused by the hritation of a badly-fitting boot, and is a good example of the sliare that a " local irritation " takes in the origin of tumours. It is sometimes known as " Dupuytren's exostosis," as ho was the first to direct special attention to it. Lymphatics of tlie Lower Extremity.—As elsewhere, the glauds may be divided into superficial and deep sets. The Superficial Inguinal are placed immediately under the integument, and are divided into two sets—a vertical and a hori- zontal. The liorizontal set are placed along Poupart's ligament, and receive the lymphatics from the integumentary coverings of the scrotum and penis, the lower half of the abdominal wall, and from the perineal and gluteal regions. In diseases, tlierefore, of these regions the glands will enlarge, as malignant, syphilitic197 Surgi'ca/, Medical, and Operative. or other venereal disease of tlie penis in the male, or the labia in Iho female, chiiuiiey-sweei^'s cancer of the scrotum, abscess in the ])crinjeum, and boils about the anus and buttocks. The vertical xet receive the superficial vessels of the lower limb from the toes upwards. The Deep Glands arc the Anterior Tibial, one or two small glands sometimes found near the upper part of the anterior tibial artery; the Po^ilifeal, four or five glands deeply placed round the popliteal artery—these receive the vessels chiefly from the otifcr border of the foot, the rest going direct to the femoral set in the groin; the Dcejy Inguiiial, round the femoral vessels, and which receive the deep lymphatics of the lower limb. The gluteal, sciatic, and obturator lymphatics, and the deep vessels of the penis, accompany the veins of the same name and enter the Pelvic glands. There is a gland in the femoral canal, in front of the septum crurale, and through this the deej) lymphatics of the lower extremity communicate with the glands of the abdomen; they then pass through the external iliac glands and end in the lumbar. The gland in the femoral canal, when in- flamed, causes great pain when the thigh is moved, and may even sinnilate femoral hernia, strangulated and otherwise.198 Applied Anatomy: CHAPTEE XXXIV. THE CHEST. Relation of the Heart to the Chest Wall.—(Fig. 170).—The base of the heart lies a little below the level of the second costal cartilages; a line representing it, therefore, would be drawn at this level, a little obliquely from right to left, and extending half- an-inch to the right side of the sternum, but an inch and a half to the left of the same bone. The highest j^ortion of the heart is formed by the appendix of tlie left auricle, which reaches as high as the lower border of the second costal cartilages, or the upper part of the second space. The next point to mark is the " apex beat"; this is situated between the fifth and the sixth ribs, about three and a half inches to the left of the mid-sternal line, or fully two inches from the left margin of the sternum: it is close to the upper margin of the sixth rib (the usual stereotyped and rather loose descrijjtion is—an inch and a half below, and one inch internal to the nipple). It is well to note that in the normal condition the "apex beat" should be weU wUhin the left "nipple line." The right border is almost entirely formed by the right auricle; to indicate it, a line must be drawn from the right end of the base line in the second space, and gently curved with tlie convexity to the right side, to about the junction of the fifth costal cartilage with the sternum. The lower border (margo acidus) is formed for the most part by the right ventricle, and is indicated by a line drawn from the junction of the fifth right costal cartilage with the sternum, through the xipbi-sternal articulation, to half- an-inch beyond the apex beat. The left border (margo ohtiisus) is formed by the left ventricle, and may be indicated by a line drawn from half-an-inch outside the apex beat to the left extremity of the base line in the second space. The greater part of the anterior199 Sut'gica/, Medical, ai/d Operative. 8urfaco of tlie heart is formed by the right ventricle. Unless the heart be bound by adhesions, the apex beat shifts as the patient lies on one or other side, or on his back or face. In Hypertrophy of the left ventricle it is displaced downwards and to the left; it also varies with the height of the diaphragm. The most projecting Fig. 170. To SHOW THE Relation of the Heart and Great Vessels TO Chest Wall. 1. ilitral Valve. 2. Aortic Valve. 3. Tncuspid Valve. 4. Pnliiionai-y A'alvc. r. v. Riffht Ventricle. A. Scat of tlie ]\Iitral Murmurs. C. Seat of Tricuspid Murmurs. B. Seat of Aortic Murmui s. D. Scat of Pulmonary Murmurs. I. V. Left Ventricle. part of the heart is tire conns arteriosus of the right ventricle, which is also the part uncovered by lung. " The part of the heart uncovered by lung corresponds to a circle two inches in diameter, made round a point midway between the nip])lc and tlic end of the sternum." In order to map out the relative, or deep cardiacApplied A iiatoniy: ^00 dullness, it is sufficient for all practical purposes to percuss in two directions—(a) vertically, an inch to the left of the sternum, in order to avoid the aorta; and {h) transversely, at the level of the fourth rib, to escape the liver dullness. It is obtained heavy percussion, and hence called the deex) dullness, as the greater portion of the heart is separated from the chest wall by the over- lapping lung; it corresponds in shape to the measurements already given. The size of the normal adult heart is five inches in length, three and a half in breadth in the broadest part, and two and a half in thickness. Its weight in the adidt male varies from ten to twelve ounces; in the adult female, from eight to ten ounces. Compare the shape and extent of the normal cardiac dullness Avith that found in (1) pericarditis with effusion, (2) hypertrophy of the heart, and (3) dilatation of the heart. In Pericarditis with effusion, the sac of the serous pericardium is distended, and forms a triangular or pear-shaped dullness, passing beyond the apex beat, when that is present, with the base to the diaphragm and ^he obtuse apex above, and extending upwards to the second rib, or even higlrer; the apex beat also seems to be raised. In Hypertrophy, the dullness resembles, so far as shape is concerned, pretty much the normal cardiac dullness, but is increased especially downwards and to the left; the apex beat is disjilaced in the same direction, and is very much more poAverful than the normal, some- times making the whole chest heave. In Dilatation, the duUness is more square-shaped, increasing more to the right side of the sternum; the apex beat is indistinct and diffused, and there may be epigastric pulsation. Very constantly the two conditions are associated in causing enlargement of the heart. The absolute or superficial cardiac dullness corresponds to the part of the heart uncovered by the lung, Avhich consists of the right ventricle. It is of triangular shajje, and is thus mapped out on the chest wall in the normal condition. The rigid harder extends along a little to the right of the mid-sternal line, from about the level of the fourtli to that of the sixth costal cartilage (some give the right border of the sternum); the left harder is an irregular line, passing obhquely downwards and to the left from the upper end of the right border, until it reaches the outer limit of the apex beat. The hase caunot be percussed out, because at this point the cardiac merges into tlic201 Suri^ical, lilcdical, and Operative. hepatic dullness, but it corresponds to a line drawn from the upper limit of the absolute hepatic dullness on the right side, to the outer and inferior part of the apex beat. This base line, in liealtli, should bo about three or four inches in length. Sounds of the Heart.—There are two sounds—the first and second: the first is longer, louder, and duller than the second, and marks the beginning of the systole. It is caused by—(a) Closure and tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves jDriucipally, (h) the muscular sound of the contracting ventricles, and [c) cardiac inqndse against the chest wall. The second sound is short and sharp, and marks the beginning of the diastole; it is caused by the closure and tension of the aortic and pulmonary semi-lunar valves. It Avill thus be seen that iwo sets of A^alves give rise to the first sound, and other two sets to the second; if, tlierefore, there be any want of synchronism between the sets producing a particular sound, tlic sound in question mil appear to be doubled. This is known as reduplication. Further, if one set of valves be closed more quickly or powerfully than the other, as from increased blood-pressure behind it, on listening over the area where the valve in question is best heard, the sound will appear accentuated. The second sound is tJie one usually accentuated—in the Aortic Area, in cases of aneui'ism of the aorta, and in hypertrophy of the heart; in the Fidmonarij Area, in mitral regurgitation or obstruction. Adven- titious or abnormal sounds, accompanying or replacing the normal heart sounds, are called Murmurs. Course of the Blood through the Heart.—It is poured into the right auricle from the systemic veins, and from thence it passes into the right ventricle througli the tricuspid valve (right aurirulo- ventrievlar), tlien into the pulmonary artery and lungs, through the pulmonary semilunar valves; from tire lungs it passes along the pulmonary veins to the left auricle, and from thence passes into the left ventricle through the mitral valve (left aurimlo-ventriciilar), and from the left ventricle is sent into the aorta through the aortic semilunar valves. Now, in cases where, for example, the Mitral Valve is Diseased, tlic blood pressure acts back in exactly the opposite direction, or the blood itself is actually forced back: thug, in Mitral Stenoxix, the blood is liept bade, and in Mitral Rp(jur(jituli(m, or incompetence, the blood is sent Ijaclc. It is sentApplied Anatomy: 202 back from the left ventricle to the left auricle, from the left auricle to the lungs, from the lungs through the pulmonary artery to the right ventricle, and from this, through the tricuspid opening, to the right auricle, and from thence to the systemic veins, especially the inferior vena cava. The Secondary Results of this condition are numerous. The Cavities of the Heart will, if the patient have sufficient vitality, become hypertrophied, and " compensation " will thus be produced; but if his vitality be low, they will dilate, " compensation" will not be produced, or, if present, will fail. The Lujigs suffer from congestion, oedema, bronchitis, and, finally, "brown induration": the pressure in the Pulmonary Artery is increased, and hence there is accentuation of the second sound in the pulmonary area: the Right Ventricle dilates, the tricuspid valve becomes incompetent, and hence we have pulsation in the external jugular vein in the neck. This Venous Pulse is peculiar; it is not the compact-like throb of an arterial jjulse, but is undulating and wavy in character, and though very easUy seen, yet, when the finger is placed upon it, cannot be felt. When the vein is emptied, by drawing the thumb upwards over its course, it will be observed to fill from below upwards at each beat of the heart. This is the characteristic diagnostic point of tricuspid regurgitation. The Systemic Veins next suffer, espe- cially the inferior vena cava; the veins are over-filled, and the various organs and tissues passively congested: the Liver undergoes "cyanotic atrophy"—a mechanical atrophy of the liver cells, from pressure of the over-full capillaries—the change begins in the centre of the lobule, in the region of the hepatic vein: the Stomach and the Intestines are passively congested, and are unable, there- fore, to do their work properly—hence the indigestion; the Sjileen and Kidney are passively congested, and become indurated, or cirrhosed: the Blood deteriorates: the Vessels in the subcutaneous cellular tissue at the most dependent parts, as the feet and anldes, are over - distended, fluid exudes beyond the capacity of tlae lymphatics to remove—hence, the dropsy of the cellular tissue, or anasarca, Avhich is shoAvn by the part " pitting on pressure." This dropsy is always worst in the evening, and disappears when the patient lies in bed. Compare this with Renal Dropsy, which first shows itself as a puffiness under the lower eyelid, and is worst in the morning; and Avith Hepatic Dropsy, from pressure on the203 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. portal vein, wliicli usually hegins in the belly—Ascites. Lastly, in heart disease, especially towards the end, the Peritoneal Vessels transude in excess, and hence we have ascites. Observe carefully that mitral stenosis is a frequent cause of " spitting of blood;" this condition is, of course, suggestive of phthisis, and might mis- lead the student, uidess he examines the heart. The back pressure in the lungs is much more continuous and severe in mitral stenosis than it is in mitral regurgitation, hence the haemoptysis. On the Arterial Side, in cases of heart disease, we find the arteries are not sufficiently filled, especially those going to tlie brain; but, in addition to this, there is the risk of " vegetations " being swept oft" the valves, forming emboli. The emboli usually make for the brain, kidney, or spleen. In the brain they cause hemiplegia, with ajjhasia—often, however, more or less transient iu character; in the kidney and spleen they cause hcemoi-rhagic infarcts, as the vessels affected are " terminal." A very curious phenomenon is sometimes observed in aortic regurgitation, with hypertrophy of the heart, viz. : — Capillary Pulsation. This may be observed on the cheeks, beneath the nails, or on the brow, especially if the finger-nail be drawn across it, so as to form a congested line; at each systole the part flushes, and during the diastole it becomes pale. Cardiac "Areas."—The four valves of the heart, in relation to the chest wall, are situated very close to one another, round about the junction of the third left costal cartilage Avith the sternum and the space below it, so close that, according to "Walshe, an area of half-an-inch square will include a part of all four. Position of the Valves.—The Mitral Valve is close to the left border of the sternum, just below the third costal cartilage. The Aortic Valve is found on a level with the third left costal cartilage behind the left half of the sternum. The Pulmonary Valve cor- responds to its "area," and is higher up and more superficial than the aortic, and behind the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum. The Tricuspid Valve is behind the middle of the sternum, on a level with the foiu'th costal cartilage. It will, therefore, be at once evident to any one that it woidd be imiiossible, in diseased conditions of the valves, by listening over them, to detect with certainty wliich of the four is at fault.204 Applied Analoiny: But the miirmurs arc conducted («) principally by tlie blood stream, but also (i) by the bones of the chest wall, and advantage is taken of this fact to differentiate the sounds produced by the several valves. The points on the cliest wall, where the sounds are best heard, are known as the "areas," and do not necessarily correspond to the position of the valves producing the sounds. 1. The Mitral Area corresponds to the apex beat, and it is here that we listen for murmurs produced by the mitral valve— the left auriculo-ventricular. 2. The Aortic Area is at the junction of the second right costal cartilage with the sternum; here Ave listen for murmurs produced by the semi-lunar valves of the aortic opening, as at this point the aorta comes nearest the surface of the chest wall. 3. The Pulmonary Area corresponds to the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum, or the space imme- diately above it; the pvdmonary oj^euing is, of all the openings at the base of the heart, the one nearest the surface, and its " area" therefore corresponds pretty closely with the actual position of its valve. 4. The Tricuspid Area.—This is a large area, almost the whole of the anterior surface of the right ventricle of the heart, though systolic murmurs especially arc best heard at the left border of the lower part of the sternum, at the level of the foiu-th, fifth, and sixth left costal cartilages, as the jet of blood is directed towards this point. But even Avhen we have found out tlie seat of the maximum intensity of any murmur (endo-cardial), in the cardiac region, that alone is not by any means sufficient to enable us to give an exact diagnosis; for this purpose we require, in addition to find out other two points—(a) the time of the murmur, Avhich is done by placing a finger on the apex beat itself, or else on the common carotid (the radial pulse is too far away), when we know that the impulse in the vessels corresponds to the cardiac systole; and {h) its propagation. Given a murmur, therefore, find out— first, its seat of maximum intensity; second, its time; and third, its propagation. If this be done in an intelligent and systematic manner, the student ynW in most cases readily arrive at a correct diagnosis.Surgical, Medical, a/id Operative. 205 Murmurs may be— 1. Exo-cardial {i.e., murmurs produced outside the heart), e.ij., friction sounds. Murmurs of this nature are known by three features — (a) By the double to-aud-fro rub; (&) it seems very superficial and near the ear; and (c) it is modified by pressure, or by stopping the respirations. Pressure of the stethoscope will intensify it. 2. Endo-cardial {i.e., murmurs produced inside the heart). They may be : — (a) Functional — associated with the various forms of anaemia and blood diseases. This is " curable heart disease," as it is not associated with any organic change, but is a " bruit of disparity of size," simply because, from the relaxed condition of the heart muscle, the openings are rather large for the valves. Fig. 171. Cause .OF Bruit de Diable. Internal Jugular Vein. Fascia. Cardiac tonics, as digitalis and strophantlius, will brace up the heart, make the valves fit, and make the murmurs Jess distinct. Murmurs of this kind are known by their widely-diffused character—at all the orifices—and also because they are always systolic in time. Like ordinary murihurs, they are propagated—thus the aortic one is heard over the great vessels of the neck. Accompanying this condition we also find the venous 1mm—the hummincc- top bruit, or the " hruit de Diahle." This is best heard on the right side, by listening over the sinus, or bulb, of the internal jugular vein, in the interval between tlie two heads of the sterno-clcido-mastoid, just above the sterno- clavicular articulation. It is a nmiinuniis nnirraur, but206 Applied Anatomy: with, rytlimical variations in intensity. It is chiefly due to an alteration in the calibre of the vein at this point. Tlie vein partakes of the general relaxation of tissue, but at the root of the neck it passes through the deep cer- vical fascia, and at this spot, therefore, it cannot enlarge, though it does so above and below, and this alteration in calibre causes the murmur (Fig. 171). It is heard best on the ricjlit side, because on this side the innominate vein has a straight course into the thorax, and it empties with greater rapidity than the left, which is longer and more oblique. A similar venous hum may also be heard over the ophthalmic veins and the cerebral sinuses. (Z») Organic— due to actual structural changes in the valves (chronic endocarditis).—This form of disease is incurable, and cardiac tonics make the murmurs more distinct. For the purpose of finding the cardiac areas, and many other important points about the chest, it is, of course, very important that the student should be able to count the ribs easily and with certainty. It is sometimes a little difficult to be quite sure of the position of the first rib, especially in stout persons; but if the student will bear in mind that there is always a fairly well marked ridge on the front of the sternum at the junction of the first and second pieces, and that this corresponds with the level of the second rib, he will find no difficulty whatever. Development and Malformations of tlie Heart.—The heart is at first represented by two tubes, placed side by side, wliich very soon fuse into a single tube. Soon after this two transverse con- strictions appear in the tube, dividing it into three chambers— a posterior, or primitive auricle; an anterior, the arterial bulb or fruncus communis arteriosus; and a middle chamber, or primitive ventricle. About the third Aveek of development the heart becomes doubled upon itself, and represents tlie permanent condition found in the fish. In a few rare cases this has been found in the child at birth—the development of the heart being arrested about the third week, so that the child has only a single auricle and a single ventricle. A septum appears about the sixth week, Avhich grows upwards from the ap)ex of the ventricle, dividing the single cavity into207 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. two; this septum should be complete about the eighth week. Occasionally it is not completed at all, but a permanent opening remains between the two ventricles, towards the base of the heart. This form is also sometimes met with in the human heart, and corresponds to the normal form of the heart in the clielonia and scaly reptiles. After the ventricular septum is completed, a septum appears at the upper part of the single auricle, and grows downwards, dividing it into two auricles; an opening, however, exists in this septum during the whole of intra-uterine life, called the foramen ovale. This foramen slioidd close up a few days after the birth of the child, though occasionally it exists throughout life, so that the blood in the two auricles is more or less mixed. A partition also grows in the truncus communis arteriosus dividing it into the ascending aorta and the trunk of the pul- monary artery. This septum grows from above downwards, and the part last formed, therefore, is the part next to the ventricles. Occasionally the lower part of the septum is deficient, so that the aorta and the pulmonary artery communicate directly with each other. The leading signs of such malformations are—(1) The presence of marked cyanosis, deep livid or abnost black, affecting the surface generally; (2) difficult or gasping respiration; (3) the Hippocratic finger, the nails being dark blue and the tips bulbous; (4) low external temperature; (5) sometimes epileptiform seizures; (G) a bruit at the base or mid sternum with no definite propagation; and (7) increase of the cardiac dullness to the left. It is difficult or impossible to say which of the various malformations are present. Relation of the Lungs and Pleurae to the Chest Wall.— The Pleurae.—Except at the lower border, the relation of the pleuraj to the chest wall is the same as that of tlie lungs. In front, the right pleura extends to the seventh rib; in the mid-axillanj line, to the ninth; and hehind, to the eleventh. The left is a little lower all round, probably from the lower level of the diaphragm, reaching as low as the tenth rib in the mid-axillarij line. It should be noted that the pleurae may sometimes extend a little below the level of tlie last ril), iind may tlierefore be opened inApplied A natomy: 208 operations on tlie kidney, especially where the last rib is removed to give more room. As a rule, however, they do not go beyond the eleventh rib, so that the anterior end of the twelfth could be safely excised without injury to the pleuraj. In other parts the relation of the pleurte to the chest walls is the same as that of the lungs. The lungs do not, as a rule, go below the tenth rib. The Lungs.—The anterior margins of the lungs he behind the sterno-clavicular articulation; from this point the apices extend up into the neck for about an inch and a half above the clavicle. To mark out the apex, therefore, draw a line somewhat obliquely upwards and outwards from the sterno-clavicular articulation, the highest part of the arch being an inch and a half above the clavicle, and then curve it gently down to the anterior edge of the trapezius, on the same level as the sterno-clavicular articulation. From the posterior end of this arch the posterior margins of the lungs approach the vertebral column, and then pass down about an inch external to the spinous processes. Starting from the sterno-clavicular articulation the anterior margins of the lungs pass down, approaching each other obliquely so as to meet a little to the left of the middle line at the level of the junction of the manubrium sterni with the body of that bone [i.e., at the level of the second costal cartilage)—the first piece of the sternum, there- fore, being almost destitute of any pleural lining, and having hardly any lung behind it. The right lung extends a little across the mid-sternal line, and maintains this position all the way down. Between the two lungs and pleural sacs in this position is a narrow space—or almost rather a potential cavity—the anterior medias- tinum. From the level of the second costal cartilage the anterior margins pass downwards, parallel with each other, as far as the level of the fourth costal cartilage, at which point the margin of the left lung curves outwards to leave room for the heart, a part of the anterior surface of which is in this way left uncovered (the absolute cardiac dullness). The anterior edge of the right lung continues straight downwards as far as the sixth costal cartilage, where it joins the inferior margin. Under ordinary conditions the lower margin of the right lung reaches to the sixth rib at the sternal border: to the upper border of the seventh in the mam- millary line: to the eighth in the mid-axillary line: the ninth inSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 209 the scapular lino: and to the tenth at the vertebral column, some say the eleventh—roughly, therefore, the levels at front, sides, and back may be taken as the sixth, the eighth, and the tenth ribs. Owing to the gap for the heart, the lower margin of the lnjt lung would begin about the seventh or eighth rib, and then follow the same course as the right. The right lung is shorter than the left as the diajjliragm rises higher on the right side, to accommodate the liver. The left lung is the narrower, owing to the heart and pericardium encroaching on the left half of the thorax. Tlie right lung is the heavier of the two, and has three lobes, Avhile the left has only two. Special Forms of Chest.—(1) The Phthisical Chest. — In persons predisposed to phthisis the chest is long and narrow, often flattened from before backwards, with great obliquity of the ribs; the scapulaj project in a wing-like manner; hence, this form of chest is often called the " aiar," or " pterygoid." (2) The Rickety Chest.—In this form the sides of the chest are flattened and the sternum is thrown forwards, so that a transverse section of the chest would almost be triangular. The transverse diameter of the chest is less than it should be, whereas the antero-jjosterior is greater than it should be; hence, the name of " pigeon breast" is applied to this form of chest. It is caused chiefly by the atmospheric pressure, from the difference between the opening of the glottis and the rate of descent of the diaphragm; the diaphragm descends too quickly, the air enters the glottis too slowly: hence, the ribs are forced in, because they are softened, especially at the junction of the cartilages with the bones. As a result of this, we find a groove on each side, where the cartilage and bone join; the left is shallower tlian the right, because of the support from the heart; the right is deeper, but not so long as the left, because of the support of the liver. There is, how- ever, another constriction a little above the costal arch; this is not due to the diapliragm, but is duo to the fact that the lower costal arch is prevented from falling in from the presence of the liver, stomach, and spleen. It is exceedingly doubtful if direct muscular action has anything to do with these peculiar deformities. (3) The Barrel-Shaped Chest.—This form of chest is generally the result of pulmonary emphysema. It is enlarged in all its diameters,Applied Anatomy: 510 rounded, and the intercostal spaces are wide; on transverse section, it is almost circular. The lower edges of the lungs vary much with the respiratory movements; there may be a difference in the level of three inches between fidl expiration and full inspiration. The lungs are tlio commonest seat of pya3mic abscesses, and of secondary deposits in sarcoma; this is because these conditions spread by the agency of the blood-vessels, and it is in the lungs that the veins break up into capillaries. The Frequency of Respiration in the adult male varies from 15 to 20 per minute; in the female it is slightly more rapid, and in the child the average is from 30 to 40 per minute. The ratio between respiration and the joulse is about one respiration to every four and a half beats of the heart—say, respirations 17, and the jiulse 76 jDcr minute; it is very important to remember this relation, as either the one or the other may be disturbed, according as the fault lies in the respiratory or the circulatory systems. "When any new case is seen for the first time, three things should always he done—(1) Take the temperature, (2) count the respirations, and (3) count the pulse : if all three preserve their normal relation- ships, it is unlikely that there is much wrong with the patient; but when this relationship is disturbed in any way, then search must be made for the cause. It is of far more importance to do this than to look very wise and shake the head over the patient's tongue, Avhich, in the great majority of cases, is a sealed book; look at it by all means if you like, it will please the patient, but I doubt if it will help the Surgeon much, except in a few cases, as confirmatory evidence—e.g., in scarlet fever. The Rhythm of Respiration. — In health, inspiration begins suddenly, and advances rapidly to its completion; cqyiration im- mediately follows this, and at first advances rapidly, but towards the end much more slowly: the slo"\v part is knoAvn as the p^iU'^e. As regards the relative length of the different parts of the act, opinions vary. Taking, then, the whole act as 10, some divide it thus: — Inspiration = 5, expiration = 4, pause = 1; others, as inspiration = 3, expiration = 4, pause = 3. Be that as it may, it will be observed that expiration (including the so-called " pause") is at least as long as, and probably longer than, inspiration.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 211 Types of Respiratory Movement.—The types are chiefly two— (1) AVhero it is most marked in the abdomen, the diaphrarimatic type—this is best seen in ordinary respiration in the male; and (2) where it is most marked in the chest, the codal type; this is best seen in women during ordinary breathing. But, of conrsc, the chest also moves in the male to a certain extent, and the abdomen in the female—if it can ; in deep breathing both parts move, whether in male or female. If the hand be placed over a healthy chest wliile the patient speaks, a peculiar vibration is felt; it is even better felt in a cat, whilst purring: this is known as the vocal fremitus. This vibration is rendered evident by anything that blocks up the bronchi, or where there is effusion of Huid or gas into the pleural cavity —e.;/., pleurisy with effusion ; it is increased by anything that renders the lung more solid, as blocking up of the vesicles, in lobar pneumonia especially, or in the consolidation of phthisis. Note especially the very marked difference in this respect between pleurisy with effusion, and lobar pneumonia of the lower lobe behind—where it usually begins. Breath Sounds.—These are produced by the friction of the air on the respiratory passages and the lung tissue. There are two great types, the A^esicular and the Bronchial. 1. The Vesicular is a gentle, breezy, rushing noise, and may be likened to the sighing of a gentle breeze among the tree-tops on a summer's evening, in a coiintry churchyard; it is due to the entrance and exit of air from the air vesicles, and is heard at most parts of the chest in health, as the air vesicles are close to the chest wall. It consists of two j^arts—an inspiratory and an crpiratory, iritli, no panse h'twccn; the lns])iratory is about tliree times as long as the expiratory, and is also much better marked: the expiratory i.s very short and ill-marked in health, and is very often inaudible, and hence tliis sometimes gives the irajircssion that there is a pause between the two parts of the murmur. In Disease, tlierc are various modifications of this type: thus we have—(«) The harsh or puerile, a condition normal in boys, and found in the adult when one lung, or a part of both, is in- capacitated—as, for example, in pleurisy with effusion ; {h) it may be jerky or cog-wheel-like; {<:) it may be extremely faint, Avhere a212 Applied Anatomy: bronchus is nearly plugged; {d) it may be entirely absent wliere the air cannot reach the vesicles, as in pneumonia; and (e) it iiTay be combined with prolonged expiration, in cases where the lung tissue has lost its elasticity—e.,7., commencing phthsis. 2. The Bronchial Type.—This is a soft, blowing, to-and-fro sound, and can be heard in perfection on listening over the trachea; it can also be heard behind in the inter-scapular region, and at the bifurcation of the trachea, opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra. It cannot be lieard in health over the chest generally, as the vesicular murmur entirely overpowers it, and thus prevents it reaching the ear. Like the other, it consists of two parts, an inspiratory and ari exjnratory, hut tuitli a distinct pause bettoeen, and the expiratory part is as long as, or even longer than, the inspiratory. In Disease, when the vesicles are consolidated, and therefore the vesicular murmur absent, as in phthisis, or more characteris- tically in croupous or lobar pneumonia, bronchial breathing is heard, where, in health, only the vesicular could be distinguished, e.g., at the apex in phthisis, and over the base posteriorly in lobar pneumonia; and, just as in organ pipes, the sound will be high pitched (tuhidar), medium, or low pitched (cavernous), according as we listen over a small, medium-sized, or large bronchus. As the sur- face of the lung is more especially affected in pneumonia, the tubes we listen over are chiefly small in size, and therefore we usually hear the high-pitched or tuhidar variety. Not only may the normal lung sounds be altered in character or heard where they should not be heard, but we may also hear superadded or adventitious sounds, and these may be outside or inside the lung; the extra- pulmonary sounds are friction sounds, the result of pleurisy, and are distinguished from endo-pulmonary sounds in the same way that exo-cardial are distinguished from endo-cardial sounds (see vol. ii., page 205); further, friction is usually best heard in the a.xiUary Tegion. The intra-pulmonary sounds are either moist or dry: the moist rales are caused by undue moisture of the walls of the vesicles, or by fluid in their interior. Those from moisture are exceedingly fine, and are known as fine crepitations; the Avails of the vesicles come together and then stick to each other, from the capillary attraction of the fine layer of fluid on their surfaces, as the vesicle is being emptied of air, and they are forcibly separated213 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. again as fresh air is inhaled : consequently, this form of crepita- tion is heard almost invariably at the end of inspiration—e.g., in the first stage of lobar pneumonia. Those due to the bubbling of air through fluid contained in the vesicles, as in oedema of the lungs, are known as fine and course bubbling riiles, and are usually heard over the base of the lung, as the fluid of course tends to seek the lowest point. When " moist sounds " are heard at the ape.i-, it is strongly suggestive of phthisis, the sounds being caused by the presence of pus produced by ulceration. The dry rales, or rJioncld, are caused by anything that narrows the lumen of the bronchi, as swelUng of the mucous membrane, or the adhesion of viscid secretion, foreign bodies, etc. In the large tubes, the sound is low-pitched {sonorous), and in the small tubes it is high-j)itched and whisthng (sibilant). The dry rales are most characteristically heard in bronchitis. When we listen over the trachea while the patient speaks, it is possible to distinguish what he says; but if we listen over any part of the cliest, provided the lung is healthy, it is impossible to distinguish the words, all we hear being a confused murmur. This is known as the vocal resonance, or the auscultation of the voice. The reason we cannot distinguish the spoken words is because the sound-waves are so broken up by the air vesicles, being reflected and re-reflected, echoing and re-echoing, that it is impossible for the sound-waves to convey to the ear any meaning; but, let the vesicles be filled up, as in lobar pneumonia, then the sound-waves come straight along the bronchi, so that we can distinguish the spoken words, just as we do over the trachea normally. In this case the words seem spoken into the end of the stethoscope next the patient; this is called hronclioplwny. When this is still further intensified, and the patient's mouth seems to be close to the listening ear, it is called pectoriloquy; this may be heard over the very large bronchi, and over cavities. A more characteristic sign of a cavity, however, is v-hisperin(j pectorilo<pnj; the patient whispers in liis tliroat, witliout making any audible noise with the lips or tongue, and to one listening over a cavity, it seems as if his mouth were actually close to the listening ear. Over a cavity, too, the breath sounds resemble those produced by bloM'ing into an empty jar or bottle; this is known as the amphoric type of breathing,214 Applied Anatomy: and, like the bronchial, may be high, medium, or low pitched, ac- cording to the size of the cavity; amphoric breathing is also heard in pneumo-thorax. In cases of effusion of fluid into the pleural cavity, the vocal resonance is peculiarly altered if one listens near the upper margin of the fluid, usually near the inferior angle of the scapula; it resembles tlie bleating of a goat, or Punch's voice, having a peculiar nasal character: it is called mgophony, or the iijgophonic resonance. In effusion of air into the pleural cavity, when one coin is laid against the front of the chest and tapped with another coin, a peculiar tinkle, like the sound of a silver bell, is heard over the posterior aspect of the chest; this is known as the " bell sound." To sum up the points mentioned in the foregoing pages in regard to Auscultation of the Chest, four things are to be done:— 1. To determine at each point during natural and deep respiration, the relative duration of the expiratory and the inspiratory murmurs. 2. The quality or type of the breath sounds—whether vesicular or bronchial. 3. Tlie presence or absence of accompaniments or super- added sounds, as dry or moist nlles, or friction sounds. 4. Tlie character of the vocal resonance. BRONCHOTOMY. This is an operation sometimes performed for hroncMectasi.i. This condition consists in a dilatation of the lumen of the bronchial tubes at certain parts, and is most frequently met with in the mammary region or base; it is characterised by fits of violent coughing and expulsion of a great amount of secretion after long intervals. The sputa thus expelled has a very putrid odour, but does not contain lung tissue; the patient's breath is also very foetid. In addition to these signs we also find the physical signs of vomicEE, viz. :—dulness in the neighbourhood but resonance over the cavity, amphoric breathing, pectoriloquy, whispering and otherwise, gurgling moist sounds, and sometimes the " cracked pot" sound. The contents of the cavity decompose and slowly poison the system, and in some cases the patient may be unable to expel the collection, or only after severe and exhaustive cough-Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 215 ill"; under such circumstances, these cavities have been cut down upon, emptied, drained, and washed out, with tlie best results. In a case of this hind, oj^erated on by Mr Caiiid, he introduced an aspirator needle, so as to tap the cavity, then made a free external incision, and after this forced a pair of sinus forceps alongside the needle into the cavity. The needle was then with- drawn, about two inches of a rib excised, the finger passed in, and the opening dilated; a dependent counter opening was next made, large-sized rubber drainage tubes were inserted, and the cavity washed out with warm boracic. The only untoward symptoms that occurred during the progress of this case were three smart hfemorrhages which took place from the interior of the cavity about a fortnight after the operation—possibly from pressure of the drainage tube, causing ulceration into one of the branches of the pulmonary artery. The diseased conditions that may require the operation of Bronchotomy are — (1) Abscess of the liuigj (2) gangrene of the lung; (3) bronchiectasis; (4) tubercular cavities; (5) hydatids; and (6) foreign bodies. In operating for gangrene, make sure that the gangrene is not caused hy an aneurism pressing upon the root of the lung. If due to this cause, and should an operation be performed, one would be very apt to open into the sac of the aneurism, leading to a fatal issue from sudden and severe haemorrhage. FRACTURE OF THE RIBS. The two upper and the two lower ribs are rarely fractured— tlie upper two being protected by the clavicle, wliile the mobility of the lower two renders their fracture less likely. The ribs may be fractured—(1) by direct violence; (2) by indirect violence, as from pressure in a crowd, etc.; or (3) from muscular action during parturition. Season has also a most marked effect, fractured ribs being specially common about Christmas and the New Year. In indirect violence, they usually give way at the angle or near it, or close to their junction with the cartilages; in direct violence, at the part struck. The great danger in fracture of the ribs is injury to the pleura and lungs, from sharp fragments projecting hiwards, and this is far more likely to occur in fracture due to direct violence than in fracture due to indirect yiolcncc, In simple fracture there216 Applied Anatomy: will be difficulty in respiration wliicli soon becomes abdominal, and crepitus may be detected, eitber by placing tbe band over tbe fractured part and directing tbe patient to take a deep breatli, or by applying the stethoscope. A valuable means of diagnosis is by indirect pressure : tbe Surgeon places one hand on tbe sterniun and the other on the spine, and, on pressing gently, the patient complains of pain at the seat of the fracture; or tbe rib which is believed to be broken may be followed towards tbe spine or sternum as tbe case may be, and when at some distance from the fractured point, pressure is made upon the rib, when the patient will feel pain at the seat of the fracture. This Avill serve to distinguish it from a bruise—which, after all, is of little 'practical importance, as tbe treatment is tbe same in both cases. The signs of lung injury are—(1) Subcutaneous emphysema, and (2) htemoptysis. If the lung tissue be much injured there will be expectoration of frothy, bright red blood, and a constant liacldng cough from irritation of tbe pulmonary branches of the vagus nerve, as the most prominent symptoms. The following are the chief complications likely to arise from wounds of the lung, viz.—(1) Bleeding, especially internal, giving rise to luemotlwrax, and leading to compression of the lung and dyspnosa; (2) emphysevia, an infiltration of air into the cellular tissue, indicated by puffy swelling and crackling when pressed upon; (3) pneumothorax, an accumulation of air in the pleural cavity; (4) htjdrotho7'ax,' an accumulation of serous fluid in the pleural cavity; (5) suppuration and accumulation of pus in the pleural cavity (empyema); (6) there is always a risk of pleurisy and pneumonia; (7) tbe intercostal artery is sometimes ruptured, so that there is hsemorrhage into the cellular tissue. Treatment.—When only one or two ribs are broken, tbe side of the chest should be strapped with plaster. Each strip should be about an inch and a half wide, and long enough to reach about two inches beyond the middle line in front and behind. They may eitber be applied parallel with each other, and partially over- lapping, or they may be crossed in an x -like fashion over the seat of the fracture; they should be applied during expiration, as the object is not so much to steady the fractured ends, but to rest that half of tbe chest and relieve the patient of pain. Tliere is no danger217 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. of non-union. Over all is placed a broad flannel bandage, tight enough just to be easy for the patient. During the process of healing of a rib, on account of the almost coiiKtimt movement, there is a good deal of eusheatliing callus thrown out. It unites in about three weeks. PARACENTESIS THORACIS. This is an operation for the removal of serous or purulent fluid from the chest. It is best performed with a pneumatic aspirator, and the point chosen for the introduction of the needle is either in the fifth or sixth intercostal spaces, at the line of the inser- tion of the serratus magnus, about midway between the sternum and the angles of the ribs, i.e., the mid-axillary line, or in tlie seventh or eighth spaces in a line with the inferior angle of the scapula; at a lower level than this, the diaphragm might be wounded. The needle is pushed into the chest, close to the edge of the lower rib of the space in which it is performed, to avoid wounding the intercostal artery, which lies near the lower border of the iqjper rib. Thus, suppose the operation is performed in the sixth intercostal space, the needle, or trochar, is pushed over the upper edge of the seventh rib. But from the mid-axillary line onwards there is an artery at each border of the space; and, therefore, it should be entered through the middle of the space, and during inspiration, as the space during this act is widened. It is necessary to thrust in the needle with considerable force, so as to make sure of its piercing the pleura, which is usually thickened; otherwise it might simply drive the thickened pleura before it. The usual order of structures in the si^ace is vein, artery, nerve; but in the upper three or four spaces the artery is below the nerve. When tapping the pleural cavities, the lungs should be in a condition to expand freely and fully: otherwise, as when bound down by adhesions, the rajjid removal of fluid may lead to rupture of the lung tissue and ha3mothorax. In hydrops pericardii the pericardium may be tapped in the fourth or filth intercostal spaces, in the cardiac region, and close to the sternum, in the same manner; the point of tlie greatest accumulation of fluid being determined by percussion. A very fine needle must lie employed, and the fluid drawn oil' very slowly.Applied Anatomy: 218 THE MEDIASTINUM. Tlie mediastinum, or inter-pleural space, is the space left in the middle line of the chest, between the two pleural sacs. It may be divided into four parts—the anterior, middle, posterior, and superior parts. 1. The Anterior Mediastinum.—This space is bounded va. front by the sternum, hehind by the pericardium, and laterally by the pleurae. It contains some loose areolar tissue, lymphatic vessels, and glands; the lymphatic vessels come from the convex surface of the liver, the chest wall in front, and mammae. 2. The Middle Mediastinum.—This space is bounded in front by the anterior mediastinum, hehind by the posterior mediastinum, and laterally by the pleura. It contains the heart and peri- cardium, the ascending part of the aorta, part of the superior vena cava, bifurcation of the trachea, pulmonary artery and veins, and the phrenic nerves, with their accomijanying vessels. 3. The Superior Mediastinum (Struthers).-^—This is the part of the inter-pleural space that lies above the pericardium, and is bounded below by a plane passing from the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum in front, and the lower part of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra behind. It is bounded in front by the manubrium sterni, behind by the vertebras, and laterally by the laleurse. It contains the remains of the thymus body, the two innominate veins, the commencement of the superior vena cava, the superior intercostal veins, the ter- miuation of the vena azygos major; the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, with its three large branches; the vagi, and phrenics; the cardiac and left recurrent laryngeal nerves, for a part of their course; and, lastly, portions of the trachea, oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. 4. The Posterior Mediastinum.—This space is bounded in front by the pericardium and root of the lungs, hehind by the vertebral column, and laterally by the pleura?. It contains the descending thoracic aorta, the oesophagus, the two vagi, the thoraci(; * Professor Stiiutiiers marks off the lower boundary beliiiul, a vertebra higher than in the subjoined description.219 Snroical, Lledical, ami Opcrntlve. duct, the vcMia azygos iiiajor, the vena azygos luiuor, superior and inferior, the great splanchnic nerves, and the lyiupliatic glands and vessels. The gangliated cords of the sympathetic are not in the mediastinum. The Roots of the Lung. — Each root consists of a bronchus, pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins, bronchial vessels anil glands, anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses of nerves, and the connective tissue through and over all. The relations of the bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins are really the same on both sides, only that there is an extra bronchus (the epiurterkd) on the right side. From above downwards, therefore, the order is— Ilvjhl Side— Lrft Side— Bronchus. Arter)'. Artery. JSronclnis. Bionchns. Veius. Ychis. From before backwards the order on the two sides has always been regarded as the same-—viz., veins, artery, bronchus. Relations of the Roots of the Lungs.—The relations Avill best be .shown by a small table. In the table it will be observed that five are the same on both sides, and that three are different:— Right Root. 1. Anterior j'almoiiiuy plexus in front. 2. TMvreuio nerve, with its accom- panying vessels, in frunl. 3. Posterior pulmonary plexus 4. I'neuumgastric nerve behind. ■>. Ligamentnm latum pulmonis beliiir. 6. Vena azygos nuijor arelies over the right root. 7. SuiKtrior vena cava in front of the riglit root. 8. No eorrespomling structure on this side. Left Root. 1. Anterior pulmonary plexus in front. 2. J'hrenic nerve, with its accom- jianying vessels, in front. 3. Posterior pulmonary plexus&r'7( /;i(Z. 4. Pneumogastric nerve behind. i5. Ligamentum latum pulmonis be/o7C. G. The aoi'ta urelies over the left root. 7. No corresponding structure on this side. 8. Descending thoracic aorta beliind the left root,220 Applied Anatomy: MEDIASTINAL SWELLINGS AND TUMOURS. The pressure symptoms produced by aneurism of the various large arteries of the thorax have been already given (see vol. i., page 34), and, in addition to what is there stated, I would only add that an aneurism pressing on the bronclii may cause collapse of a portion of the lung, or, by pressing on the vessels at its root, may cause gangrene. Enlarged Glands in the medias- tinum—e.r/., as in Hodgkin's disease (adenia)—may press on the trachea or bronchial tubes, causing difficulty of breathing; on the large thoracic veins, causing jDassive congestion of the upper extremities or head; directly affect the voice, from pressure on the windpipe, or indirectly, from pressure on tlie recurrent laryngeal nerve, especially the left. In the child, enlargement and con- gestion of the thymus and other glands may cause laryngismus stridulus (s]jasmocUc croup or child-crowing) from pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerves. Enlarged Scrofulous Glands may also press on the same nerve. Primary Cancer of the lung, \isually starting in and spreading from the bronchial glands at the root, will press upon and involve the various structures forming the root (see vol. ii., page 219), and also press on neighbouring parts, as the superior vena cava and right vagus on the right side, the aorta and left vagus on the left side. Cancer of the (Esophagus is very apt to involve or press on the trachea, on one or both recurrent laryngeal nerves, depending on the part affected, though the left is the most common, causing cough and alteration in the voice. Eetro-oesophageal Abscess, Disease and Tumours of the bodies of the vertebrae, are also likely to press on and otherwise involve the oesophagus. In Pericarditis with effusion the vessels of the arms and head are distended, from pres- sure of the effusion on the thoracic veins. It is also apt to ijress on the lungs and trachea, causing dyspna?a; on the oesophagus, causing dysphagia; and on the cardiac nerves, giving rise to shooting pains down the left arm and up the left side of the head. The hypertrophied heart of aortic regurgitation ("Cor bovinum"), also gives rise to shooting pains in the same directions—" anginous pains." Dermoid Cysts may also occur in this region, and may make their way into a bronchus. This will be known by theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 221 expectorated material containing liair. Tliej'^ may also give rise to symptoms suggestive of an empyema. The superior vena cava may be occluded, from the pressure of cidarged glands, tumours, and gummata; and this being the case, the blood must reach the heart in a roundabout way through the inferior vena cava; the veins of the abdominal wall often enlarge to a very great extent, and become varicose; and if the superior vena cava is at fault, when a portion of one of the enlarged veins on the surface is emptied by pressure, it is seen to fill from above downwards. The azygos veins, too, Avill take a very large share of the work when the cavte are blocked. The vena azijgos major communicates below with the lumbar veins, tributaries of the inferior vena cava, and above it opens into the lower part of the superior vena cava. The vena azygos minor su2')erior communicates above with the vein that carries the blood from the upper two intercostal spaces to the left innominate vein, while below, at the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra, it joins the vena azygos major. The vena azygos minor inferior begins below, from one of the lumbar veins, and at the level of the ninth dorsal vertebra it also joins the vena azygos major. For the effects of aneurism on the contents of the cliest, refer to " Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta" (vol. i., page 34), "Aneurism of the Descending Thoracic Aorta" (vol. i., page 40), "Aneurism of the Innominate" (voh i., page 53), and " Carotids." See also, "Paralyses of the Larynx" (vol. ii., page 18). Abscesses may spread down from the neck, or develop in situ, from suppurating glands or caries of the vertebra?. Dermoid cysts are also occasionally found in the mediastinum, and the bronchial and mediastinal glands are enlarged in "Wool-sorters' disease." The mediastinal glands may also be enlarged in malignant disease of the ovary, e.g., alveolar sarcoma, and the tumour thus formed may cause death, by pressure upon the bronchus. The leading signs, tlierefore, of Mediastinal Tumours arc— (I'^dcma of tlie arm and hand, a swollen and livid condition of the neck and face, due to the blocking of the large thoracic veins. When the superior vena cava is blocked, the azygos veins carry on the circulation ; when both innominate veins are blocked, the superficial veins of the cliest and back carry the blood past theApplied Anatomy: 222 blocked point. AVlien these veins are examined, tliey are seen to be varicose, enlarged, and zig-zagged, and Avhen emptied by pressnre are seen to fill more rapidly from above downwards. AVhen the inferior vena cava is blocked, the reverse obtains: the superficial veins at the lower part of the belly wall are enlarged, varicose, and zig-zagged, and fill most rapidly from below upwards. Besides pressure on the veins, we also have pressure on the lungs or air- passages, pressure on the 03sophagus, or it may extend back to the spinal canal, causing compression paraplegia; the sympathetic may also be pressed upon. There will be dullness on percussion over the sternum, extending to each side; it is very often accompanied by pleurisy, and in such cases the fluid is usually bloody. Aneurism is the most common mediastinal swelling in the adult worlung'-'man; in women and children some of the other tumours are more common. EMPYEMA. An empyema is a collection of pus in one or other pleural cavity; in fact, it is an abscess, and must be treated like any other suppurating cavity. The diagnosis of such a condition is said to belong rather to Medicine than Surgery; but it is probably better in every case to place the diagnosis beyond doubt hu using a hypodermic syringe. Whenever the presence of pus is established it ought to be evacuated Avithout delay, for it is very dangerous to allow such an abscess to burst of its own accord; and even though it may not burst, the chances of its absorjDtion are so small, and the certainty of more pus being jn'oduced by the tension so caused, so very great, that the Surgeon ought to interfere. Further, by leaving it for a lengthened period in the cavity, the lung is pushed aside and hopelessly bound down, and the pus may burst into the air-passages or through the chest wall, or even escape through the diaphragm, and produce fatal peritonitis. It has been pointed out that an cmpyeuia usually tends to " point" towards the anterior aspect of the chest, under the cartilage of the fifth rib, or even as high as the second or third intercostal space. Just outside and below the junction of the fifth rib with its cartilage, is a part of the chest wall where the pleura is but slightly supported by superjacent muscles, and through thisSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 223 Ihin spot the abscess may come to the surface. This poiut is above the origin of the external obhquc, external to the insertion of the rectus, and internal to the origin of the serratns maguns. Dermoid cysts of the chest, or actino-mycosis of the hmg, may simulate an cmjjyema. Surgical Treatment. — 1. Aspiration. — This may sometimes cure the condition—as, for example, Avhen the abscess is limited by adhesions, or when the cause of the pus formation has ceased; sometimes, howevoi", the pus is too curdy to flow through the aspirator. By aspiration we avoid the effects of tension, the fever falls, the lung expands, and adhesions form around the collection of pus, Avhich niay thus cut it ofl' from the general cavity. If there is a large quantity iDresent, do not remove it all at one sitting, as the risk of hamorrhage, lung irritation, and rupture of some large vessel, is too great. To avoid these untoward effects of negative pressure, we may siibstitute a corresponding amount of some bland fluid for the pus removed, e.g., a one per cent solution of phosjihate of sodium. If the pus re-collects slowly, and tends to become more serous, then aspiration should be persisted with; but if it collects rapidly, and of the same quality as before, then asjDiration will not cure. For the position of puncture, see vol. ii., page 217. 2. Incision and Drainage.—When aspiration fails, an iiicisiun should be made. In abscesses, usually the opening is made at the most dependent point, in order to favour drainage. Now, in empyema, this would be as far back and as low down as possible ; but, as a matter of fact, this is not the best jjlace. If it is too low down behind, as the chest falls in, the liver rises and stops up the hole; tlie opening must at least be two or three inches from the lowest point of the pleural cavity. It should not be made too far back either, because (1) the patient usually lies partly upon the affected side, so as to allow fi'ee play to the other lung; (2) the I'ibs are closer togctlier posteriorly; and (.3) as the lung expands it fills up the posterior part of the chest, and -would close up tlir opcnhig and intorfci'e with drainage. Points usually chosen.—(1) The space between the iiftli and the sixth ribs, an inch to an inch and a half in front of tlie mid- axillary line. (2) In the eighth or ninth intercostal space, just anterior to the angle of the scajjula (f Jodlki;) ; this incision willApplied Anatomy: 224 pass through the latissimus dorsi. Each of these points have their respective advocates—some Surgeons preferring the one, some the other. The patient is placed under tlie influence of chloroform, and during the operation must be laid on the affected side and partly over the edge of the table, so that the sound lung may have free play. An incision is made through skin and muscles, and then a director is thrust into the pleural cavity, and along this a dressing forceps is passed, by Avhich the opening is dilated. Rib resection.—If the intercostal spaces are wide, it is unneces- sary ; but if there is any reasonable doubt on this point, then a part of a rib should be removed, in order to give sufficient room for the drainage tube. An incision is made directly on the rib and one and a half to two inches removed, leaving the periosteum in the adult; but, in the case of children and young persons, it is probably better to remove the periosteum as well, as new bone is formed so rapidly as to seriously endanger dramage. In order to turn back the periosteum, use an incision of this form— and then, by means of a curved elevator, turn aside the two doors of the periosteum, then free the inner surface of the rib without opening the pleural cavity, and remove the piece of rib with the bone forceps. If the transverse incisions are not used, then the periosteum is apt to be stripped off the rib to an indefinite extent. In connection with incisions in the mid-axillary line, it should be noted, that when a string is passed round the chest at the level of the nipples, it will cut the seventh space in the mid-axillary line. In opening the cavity of the chest, the need of strict anti- septic precautions cannot be too strongly insisted upon; once allow the pus to become septic, and, in the adult at any rate, the chances of the patient's recovery are very small. The patient should be directed to hold his breath while the dressings are being changed. 3. " Thoracoplasty"—Estlander's operation.—This operation is used in cases Avhere the lung is bound doAvn and the chest wall is prevented, by the rigidity and close apposition of the ribs, from falling in any further and obliterating the cavity. In such225 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. circumstances healing is impossible, as the granulations are unable to shoot out far enough. Three means are left open to us—(1) To force out the soft parts by increasing the pressure within the lungs, e.g., by playing the bagpipes or French horn;- (2) to "suck" out the soft parts (Duncan); and (3) allow the chest to fall in by cutting out parts of several ribs (Estlander). As regards the number to be excised, Dr Duncan advocates the removal of as many as eight ribs—from the third to the tenth inclusive. Eemove about three inches of the ribs in the centre of the space, but not quite so much at the upper and lower ends; the part removed should be something of this shape— After this operation the side falls in, the spine curves, and the cavity closes. THE MAMMA. The mammae extend from the third to the sixth or seventh ribs; they are enveloped in the superficial fascia of this region, which splits to enclose them, so that they are separated from the pectoral muscles by a thin layer of superficial fascia and loose con- nective tissue. In structure each inamma is a compound racemose gland, which is made up of from fifteen to twenty separate glands, the separate ducts from which all converge towards the nipple; beneath the areola each duct is dilated into an ampulla, which serves as a temporary reservoir for the milk; after this the ducts perforate the nipple at separate orifices. In position, the nipple corresponds to the fourth rib or the space below it; around the base of the nipple there are concentric circles of non-striped muscle, with other fibres, that radiate from the base to the apex. The fibrous capsule of the gland sends down septa between its separate lobules. The Arteries of the gland are derived from the long tlioracic, the external mammary, with branches from the inter- costal arteries over which the gland is placed, and corresponding branches from the internal mammary. The Nerves are exceedingly226 Applied Anatomy: numerous and important. AVe have—(1) Twigs from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves; (2) twigs from the anterior cutaneous branches of the second, third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves, and of the lateral cutaneous of the third, fourth, and fifth. Xow, from the second is given off the intercosto-humeral, suppljdng the skin of the inside of the arm and axilla; from the third, a branch to the same parts, and also the skin about the shoulder; and from the fourth and fifth, the skin near the scapula. These communi- cations explain the widely diffused pain in cases of inflammatory affections, especially of the breast. In abscess of the breast, the pus may be—(1) Above the enveloping fascia, just under the skin; (2) in the breast, usually associated with lactation ; or (3) behind the breast, between it and the great pectoral, usually in the strumous and cachectic, or from caries or necrosis of a rib. These forms are usually known as supra- mammary, iiitra-mammary, and sub-mammary. Clinical Points.—1. In opening abscesses in the breast, the incision should be made in a line radiating from the nipple, so as to avoid unnecessary mutilation of the galactophorous ducts; and, after being opened, the finger must be introduced, and all septa carefully broken down; to do this, it is necessary that the patient be under the influence of chloroform. 2. In treating inflammatory affections of the breast, and after all operations on it, the whole arm must be firmly bound to the side, just as in fracture of the clavicle, otherwise, every time the arm moves the part will be disturbed by the great pectoral. 3. In testing for adhesion between the gland and the great pectoral, e.g., in cancer of the breast, do not try to move the gland across the fibres of the pectoral, as both muscle and breast would move then, but try for mobility along the fibres of the muscle. 4. Spence's Test, — In examining a breast for a suspected neoplasm, place the whole hand flatly over the breast, and gently try to flatten it out against the chest wall; if there is a new growth present, this will almost certainly detect it; but if the swelling is only a chronic inflammatory induration of some one of tlie lobules, the hand will recognise nothing but the characteristic wormy and knotty feel of the slightly enlarged ducts and acini of the normal gland.Snrg-iail, Medical, and Operative. 227 5. Lymphatics.—These may he affected in diseases of the breast, in the axilla, in the lower part of the posterior triangle of the neck, and in the anterior mediastinum. Note that the glands are enlarged in inflammatory affections, as well as in scirrhus. In inflammatory affections, however, they are usually painful, and tender to pressure; whereas in scirrhus they are densely hard and not tender to pressure. They are not, as a rule, enlarged in sarcoma of the breast. EXCISION OF THE MAMMA. This is most frequently required for the removal of malignant tumours—cancer or sarcoma. In performing this operation for malignant disease, the Surgeon must cut wide of the disease so as to give a good wide atmosphere of healthy skin; the whole of the gland tissue, together with the nipple, must also be removed, and at the present day most Surgeons believe that the axilla should be cleared out at the same time, whether the glands are visibly affected or not—a procedure advocated and practised by Lister many years ago. The instruments required are—A large straight broad-bladed bistoury, a scalpel, dissecting forceps, a large number of Wells's or Pean's forceps, blunt hooks, retractors, horse-hair sutures, catgut ligatures, two or three silver-wire button sutures, sponges, scissors, drainage tubes, needles, dressing forceps or sinus forceps, bandage to secure the arms, tenaculum, chloroform, and the usual dressings. The patient is laid upon her back, her head and shoulders resting on a pillow, the arm of the affected side hanging over the side of the table, tied down or held by an assistant, so as to put the pectoralis major on the stretch; when the axilla is being cleared out, the assistant must draw the arm vertically upwards, parallel with the side of the patient's head. The operator must stand on the same side as the breast to be removed. The Operation.—The whole breast, side, and axilla should be well washed with carbolic lotion, 1 in 20. Two elliptical incisions are then carried round, above and below the nipple, parallel with the fibres of the pectoralis major, as otherwise the edges of the wound might gape. The whole gland and the nipple must be removed in malignant disease. The incisions must at once pass228 Applied Anatomy: fhrough. the skin and fascia, and many Surgeons advise tliat the lower incision sliould be made first, so that the parts may not be obscured by blood, as they are apt to be when the upper is made first. All bleeding vessels must be tied or twisted as the operation proceeds, or else secured by catch forceps. In cases, however, where the Surgeon has determined beforehand to clear out the axilla, the incisions are often made transversely to the trunk, and from their point of union below, an incision is prolonged to the posterior border of the axilla; in addition, another incision is prolonged upwards along the anterior border of the axUla as far as may be deemed necessary, in order to thoroughly explore that space. The transverse incision drains better than the oblique one. By means of these incisions the glands and fat of the axilla may be completely cleared outj the position of the different sets of glands must be kept in mind (see vol. ii., page 137), especially those glands along the lower border of the pectoralis major. Great care is necessary in performing this jDart of the operation, especially when working towards the outer and posterior walls of the axilla, chiefly because of the presence of the large subscapular vessels— the vein, from the risk of air being sucked in, and also because the vessel is kept open by the dense fascia surrounding it \ the artery, because of its large size and the difficulty of securing it. When injured near the parent trunk the vessels retract, so that it practically becomes a wound of the parent trunk. This is specially the case should they happen to be cut near the main trunks, for then by their retraction and contraction the accident becomes equivalent to a wound of the axillary artery or vein; a similar accident may happen from the injudicious use of the fingers, whereby some small vein is torn close to the main trunk. If the opening in the axillary vein is small, simply pinch it up and apply a ligature without including the whole circumference (parietal ligature); but, if large, the entire vessel must be sur- rounded on each side of the opening. The Arteries divided in this operation are chiefly the perforating arteries from the internal mammary, the long thoracic or external mammary, as well as the short and alar thoracics, and branches of the subscapular. The arm is now to be brought to the side, and the wound closed. Drainage tubes should be introduced at the lower angleSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 229 of the incision, and if this is not the lowest part of the wound, tlieu anotlicr special opening must be made at the very lowest part by the dressing forceps and scalpel, after Hilton's method of opening abscesses, and a tube introduced there also. To bring the edges of the wound together it will in all probability be necessary to introduce two or three silver-wire " button sutures," then several deep horse-hair (double hairs) sutures (^^ sutures of support," or of relaxation), to bring the deep parts together, and also to relax the edges of the skin Avound; and lastly, a number of finer horse-hair (single hair), sutures to bring the skin edges accurately into apposition (" t^utures of apposition," or of co-aptation). In tying horse-hair sutures it is better to put the first knot twice through to prevent it slipping; in introducing the superficial sutures carefully avoid any in turning of the lips of the ■wound or protrusion of fat. Protective is then jilaced over the wound, and over the buttons, and then a large amount of antiseptic wool, the arm being brought close to the side, and the fore-arm laid across the chest, with the hand pointing to the opposite shoulder; it is then to be firmly bandaged to the side, somewhat after the manner of treating fractured clavicle. The dressings will require to be changed within the first four-and- twenty hours. After excision of the breast, especially in cases where the axilla has been cleared out, there may bo a good deal of stiffness of the arm, pain and swelling of the hand; this is due to the cicatricial tissue pressing on the nerves and veins and binding the arm down. Thomas's Operation for Simple iVIammary Tumours.—The operation consists in making the incision along the curved groove formed below the breast, where it hangs against the thorax. The gland is then turned up from the muscle, and the tumour removed from its lower surface by a radial incision. The chief advantage of this operation is the avoidance of obvious mutilation. The Lymphatics of the breast pass to the glands in the anterior fold of the axilla, and a few into the anterior mediastinal glands. In both cases the infection may reach the root of the neck—in the one case, to the glands at the base of the posterior triangle; in the other, to those near the origin of the stcruo-niastoid.Applied Anatomy: 230 CHAPTER XXXV. THE SPINE. At the upper part of the spine we find the Suboccipital triangle. It is situated just below the occipital bone, and has the following boundaries — Above, the superior oblique; 'below, the inferior oblique; internally, the rectus capitis posticus niajor; the roof is formed by the complexus; and the floor is formed by the posterior occipito-atloid ligament and posterior arch of the atlas. The Contents are—(1) The vertebral artery; (2) the sub-occipital nerve; and (3) anastomoses between the profunda cervicis, the princeps cervicis, and the vertebral. To expose this triangle the following muscles must be reflected—(1) The trapezius, (2) the sterno-cleido-mastoid, (3) the splenius capitis, (4) the complexus, and (5) the trachelo-mastoid. The sub-occipital nerve is the undivided posterior primary division of the first cervical nerve, and lies in the groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas, beneath and behind the A'ertebral artery. It is chiefly a muscular branch supplying the recti and obliqui muscles and the complexus. The great occipital nerve is the enlarged internal branch of the posterior j^rimary division of the second cervical nerve; it passes from the canal bet'\\'een the atlas and the axis, and turns round the lower border of the inferior oblique, covered by the complexus, and pierces the latter muscle and the trapezius near their insertion into the cranium. MUSCLES BETWEEN THE FIRST AND SECOND VERTEBRAE AND THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 1. Between the Atlas and the Occipital Bone.—(1) The rectus capitis posticus minor; this muscle arises from the pos- terior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the occipital bone. (2) The superior oblictue; it arises from the transverse process ofSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 231 tlio atlas, and is inserted into tlic occii^ital bone. (3) Tlie rectus capitis lateralis; it arucs from the ujjper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. (4) The rectus capitis anticus minor; it arises from the front of the lateral mass of tlie atlas, and is inserted into the occipital bone. 2. Between the Axis and the Occipital Bone.—The rectus capitis posticus major; this muscle arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the occipital bone. 3. Between the Atlas and the Axis.—The inferior oblictue; this muscle arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. It is this muscle that is cliiefly concerned in the rotatory movements of the head on the top of the spinal column. The nodding movements of the head take place at the joint between the atlas and occipital bone; the rotatory at the joint between the atlas and the axis. In a patient, therefore, with sujiposed disease of the cervical vertebrae, if he can nod and rotate his head freely, this at least excludes disease of the ujij^er two or three vertebrae,; and if flexion of the cervical portion of the spine be quite free it shows that the lower part of that region is not affected. THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The Natural Curves of the vertebral column arc four—two forwards and two backAvards, and are dependent on the shape of the inter-vertebral discs, and not on the bones themselves; the for- ward ones are in the neck and lumbar regions, the backward in the dorsal and sacral. Tliere is often also a slight lateral curve towards the right side, as the right hand is used more than the left. The length of the movable part of the spine is about twenty-eight inches, and of this seven inches, or one quarter, is taken up by the discs between the bodies; a person is taller in the morning, because the discs, being relieved from pressure, expand during the night from their elasticity. The size of the bodies, as a Avhole, increase down to the fifth lumbar; looking at it in segments, however, it is seen to consist of four pyramids; the bases of the upper two meet between the first dorsal and last cervical vertebra, Avhile the bases of the lower two meet between the fifth lumbarApplied Anatomy: 232 and the first sacral vertebra. The apices of the two middle pyramids meet at the fourth dorsal vertebra; at this spot there- fore the spine is smaller, and this gives more room for the play of the lungs. In a general way, the movements of the individual vertebrse upon each other are very limited, and this affords additional securitj' to the column; as a whole, however, it is pretty movable. Flexion, or bending forwards, is most free in the cervical and lumbar regions, especially in the latter, between the fourth and fifth vertebrte; it is very slight in the dorsal region, on account of the shape and direction of the articular facets; this is fortunate, as it prevents compression of the thoracic viscera. Extension, or bending backwards, is also most free in the cervical and lumbar regions, especially in the former; it is limited in the dorsal region, from the du-ection of the spinous processes and the imbricated laminte. Lateral movement is also most free in the cervical and lumbar regions. Rotation or twisting is most marked in the dorsal region, as the articiilar facets and spinous processes allow of this movement. In the neck, except between the atlas and the axis, it is exceedingly limited; this is important, as other- wise dislocation would be apt to occur. In the lumbar region, the locking of the articular process almost entirely prevents this movement. Occasionally we find half a vertebra too many, sometimes as many as two or three halves too many. In such a case tlie half vertebra forms a wedge-like mass, consisting of half the body, half the spinous process, one lamina, and a transverse process. This forms one of the causes of " lateral curvature " of the spine. The junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions is the part of the spine most moved, and this probably accounts for the frequency with which we meet with spinal caries (Pott's disease) in this situation. THE SPINAL CORD. Coverings.—(1) The spinal dura mater is a tough fibro-serous membrane, and is attached to the edges of the foramen magnum ; from this point it passes downwards to the apex of the sacrum or the base of the coccyx; its cavity, hoAvever, stops about the second or third sacral vertebra. It difi'ers from the cranial dura mater, in that—(rt) it does not form the periosteum of the bones, as between233 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. it and tho lamiiife there is mucli loose fat and cellular tissue, and a venous mesliwork; {h) it does not split to form venous sinuses; and (f) it does not send processes into the substance of the cord. Divide the dura mater, and Ave come to (2) the subdural space (araclmokl cavitij), with very little fluid; (3) next comes the spinal arachnoid mater; and below this (4) the subarachnoid space, containing the cerebro-spinal fluid, and also traversed by a deli- cate mesh work of fine connective tissue (the subarachnoid tissue); and (5) the pia mater, which is more fibrous, less vascular, and more adherent to the cord than the corresponding membrane of the brain. The Cord itself.—It extends from the foramen magnum to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra—passing above into the medulla oblongata, and below into the filum terminale; its length is from fifteen to eighteen inches. Eelow the first lumbar vertebra the bundle of nerve-roots jjrolonged downwards form the " cauda equina." At the third month of intra-uterine life, the cord i^asses along the entire canal; but after this period the nerve roots and the bones grow faster than the cord, so that it is apparently drawn up into the canal. At birth the spine is quite straight, and the cord reaches the lower border of the third lumbar vertebra. Occasionally, however, it extends along the whole canal at birth. There are two enlargements of the cord—the cervical and lumbar. The Cervical is the larger, and extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra; it corresponds to the origin of the nerves for the bracliial plexus and the upper extremity. The Lumbar is opposite the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebra?, and from it spring the nerves for tlie lower extremity. The cord consists of white matter externally, and grey matter in the centre. The white matter consists of fibres, and is the part that conducts impulses to and from the sensorium; it is roughly divided into anterior, lateral, and posterior columns on each side by the two median fissures, and by the point of emergence of the anterior and posterior roots. The anterior root is motor, and leaves the cord by a number of fasciculi; the posterior is sensory, and has a ganglion on it, and leaves tlie cord as one bundle. More particularly, however, the white columns arc seen to be functionally divided into a number of strands.234 Applied Anatomy: The Motor Strands are the direct or uncrossed pyramidal tract, aud the crossed pyramidal tract (Fig. 172). The direct trad (columu of Tueck) is situated in the anterior column, close to the anterior median fissure; it is called uncrossed, because the fibres forming it, coming from the motor centres of the cortex, have not crossed with the rest of the motor fibres in the medulla. The crossed tract is situated in the lateral column, close to the posterior cornu, but does not quite reach the surface of the cord; the fibres of this tract have crossed in the medulla, so that they belong to the opposite side of the brain. The motor fibres, therefore, from one side of the Fig. 172. Section of Cord. Jfusclo , Jfotor Fibi o I I.iddcn and Gower's Tract (Sensory) Slultiiiolar Nerve Cell Crossed PjTiimidal Tract (Motor)... Direct Cerebellar Tract Postero - External Cohnun (Buidach .s) Direct PyramidiJ Tract (TUrck's). Anterior Root of Spinal Nerve. Anterior Primary Division. Posterior Priuiiuy Dirision. Ganglion. Posterior Root oj Spinal Nerve. Postero-Intonial Column (Goll's). 'brain, go partly down the same side of the cord, though the greater number cross in the medulla aud go down the opposite side; both these tracts are pyramidal in shape, with the base at the medulla, as the fibres are constantly leaving the original bundle. The Sensory Strands are the postero-internal column (column of Goll), the direct cerebellar, and tlie antero-lateral ascending tract of Hadden and Gowers ; the p)ostero-intcrnal tract is situated in the j)Osterior column, close to the postero-median " fissure;" the direct cerebellar tract separates the crossed pyramidal tract from the surface of the cord; Avhile IIadden and Goaver's tract is situated235 Surgical, ilfedical, and Operative. at the auterior part of the lateral column, just iu front of the crossed pyramidal tract. There is still another tract that should be noted—viz., the postero-external column (column of Burdach), situated in the posterior column, close to the posterior cornu; this is the tract where the changes are first seen in locomotor ataxia (Fig. 172). These tracts cannot he distinguished in the healthy cord, it is only when they are cut off from their trophic centres and undergo degeneration that they are rendered visible; the motor tracts are the seat of descending degeneration, while the sensory are the seat of ascending. The troi^hic centres for the motor strands are in the third layer of the grey matter of the cerebrum; those for the sensory strands are in the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. In addition, however, to the motor fibres in crossed pyramidal tract, we also fiud other two sets of fibres—{a) The vaso-motor, and (Z;) fibres that convey impulses for the inhibition of spinal reflex action; the latter fibres probably come from the corpora quadrigemina, and pass to the large cells of the anterior horn; hence, when the crossed tract degenerates, these fibres are also destroyed, the results being dilatation of blood-vessels and exag- geration of the normal reflexes. MOTOR AND SENSORY PATHS. Motor Path:— 1. Motor centres on the surface of the brain, iu the region of the fissure of Eolando. 2. The fibres of the corona radiata. 3. The anterior part of the posterior division of the internal capsule. 4. The corpus striatum, partly. 5. The superficial longitudinal fibres of the crura and pons (= the crusta). G. The anterior pyramids of the medulla, where most of the fibres cross to the opposite side, to form the crossed pyramidal tract; a few fibres do not cross, but pass down the same side as the direct pyramidal tract. 7. The crossed pyramidal tract of the opposite side of the cord, and the direct pyramidal of the same side.^36 Applied Anatomy: 8. The anterior nerve-roots of the spinal nerves. 9. The motor nerves. 10. The muscles. Sensory Path:— 1. The end organs in the sldn. 2. The sensory nerves. 3. The posterior nerve-roots and ganglia of the spinal nerves, some entering the grey matter at once, others only entering it after they have passed through the postero-external column (Burdach's). 4. The postero-internal column of the opposite side, pro- bably the direct cerebellar, and Hadden and Gower's tract; the sensory fibres decussate almost as soon as they have entered; those for pain and temperature decussate at once, those for touch a little after they have entered, and the fibres for the muscular sense decussate in the medulla. 5. The fasciculus cuneatus (restiform hotly), the fasciculus gracilis (posterior pyramid), and probably the fasci- culus teres of the medulla. 6. The formatio reticularis or deep longitudinal fibres of the pons, and the corresponding part of the crura (= the tegmentum). 7. The optic thalamus, partly. 8. The posterior third of the posterior division of the internal capsule. 9. The fibres of the corona radiata. 10. Sensory centres on the surface of the brain. Effects of Lesions.—Now, suppose there is a lesion involving both motor and sensory paths, anywhere above the medulla—say, at the internal capsule, the usual seat,—^the result will be loss of both motion and sensation, and hoth on the opposite side of the body to the brain lesion; this is because both motor and sensory fibres cross to the opposite side between their point of origin and termination, the motor in the medulla, the sensory in the cord. In a lesion below the medulla—say, of one-half of the spinalSjirgical, Medical, and Operative. 237 cord,—the case is different; there is loss of motion, but increase of sensibility, on the same side beloAV the injury; and loss of Fig. 173. Conduction of Motor and Sensory Impulses. .lliddle Line of Cord. t, Motor Areas. Brain Medulla Lesion in Cord, -Lesion above Medulla at Internal Capsule. .Sensoiy Areas. Direct Pyramidal Tract (Motor). Crossed Pyramidal Tract (Motor). Sensory Fibres, from opposite Side. Cord Skin with Sensoiy Nerve '^__Skin with Sensory Nerve. I Crossed Pyramidal Tract (Motor) from opposite side. Direct Pyramidal Tract (Motor) from .same side. Middle Line of Cord. The arrows indicate the direction of the impulses. sensation, but motion not affected, on the opposite side. This is because the sensory fibres cross in the cord (Fig. 173). There is238 Applied A natomy: also a band of hypersesthesia on tlie injured side, corresponding to the upper level of th« lesion, where the nerve elements are only irritated, not destroyed, and below that there is a zone of ana3sthesia corresponding to the part of the cord actually destroyed. Fig. 174. Reflexes of Cord. (After Br.^jiweli,.) ;Mu.scle. •Efferent Nerve Fibre. Postero-Internal Column, Postero - External Column. Afferent Fibre for Tendon Reflex ^ Deep, or Tendon, Reflex __.4nterlor Comu. !v(SV—•/ -\ Nei-ve Cell or Centre. luhibitoiy Fibre. Cro.ssed Pyramidal Tract. Afferent Fibre for Skin Reflex. ■ Suiierficiil, or Skin, Reflex. Observe liow tlie Afferent Fibre for the Deep Reflex eiitei's the Postero-External Column. THE GREY MATTER OF THE CORD. The grey matter of the cord consists of two crescentic masses, the concavity being directed outwards, and the convexities meeting in the middle line, and being connected by the grey commissure, in the centre of which is the central canal of the cord—the per- manent remains of the ectodermal canal, from Avliich the spinal cord was originally developed. It consists principally of nerveSurgical, Rhdical, and Operative. 239 cells, the best known of which are the large multipolar cells of the anterior cornu : the functions of these cells are threefold— 1. They are Motor, passing on and intensifying the motor impulses from the brain. 2. They are Centres for Reflex Action. Reflexes are of two kinds—superficial, or skin, and deei), or tendon reflexes; the paths in the two cases are nearly the same, except that the afl^erent fibres for the deep reflexes do not enter the posterior horn directly, but traverse for a short distance the postero - external column (column of Burdach), and then enter the grey matter and pass to the anterior cells; this fact probably explains the early loss of the knee jerk (reflex of the ligamentum patellse) in locomotor ataxia, since this disease hecjins in the column in question (Fig. 174). The machinery necessary for a reflex act—(1) A sensory surface, (2) an afferent nerve, (3) a nerve centre, (4) an efferent nerve, and (5) a muscle. Injury to any one of the five parts mentioned will necessarily abolish the reflex. 3. The cells are further Trophic Centres to the various volun- tary muscles, and when destroyed the muscles waste with extreme rapidity, and give what is termed the "reaction of degeneration;" this reaction consists of both quantitative and qualitative changes, and to a great extent depends on the fact that when the nerves going to or those formed in the muscles are destroyed, then the (jalvanic current only will cause contraction of the muscle; the faradic has no power over muscles when the nerves are destroyed. The quantitative change consists in the fact that, after the first week, the muscle shows increased sensitiveness to galvanic elec- tricity ; the qualitative, in the fact that what occurs at the cathode (or negative pole) in health, takes place at the a7iode (or positive pole) in all cases where these multipolar cells are destroyed—i.e., the cathodal closing contraction, instead of being the stronger, is now feebler than the anodal closing contraction. Thus the order of contractions at the two poles in health is— C. C. C. : A. C. 0. : A. 0. C. : C. 0. C. But in the " reaction of degeneration " the anode and cathode are reversed, and we have— A. C. C. : C. C. C. : C. 0. C. : A. 0. C.Applied Anatomy: 240 But this reaction occurs not only when the cells arc destroyed, but also in all cases where the fibres conveying the influence from the cells to the muscles are divided—e.cj., in division of the ulnar or musculo-spiral nerves; it does not occur in cerebral lesions, and for this reason electricity is of great imjDortance as a means of diagnosis between a lesion of the grey matter of the cord and a lesion of the grey matter of the brain. The Special Reflex Centres of the cord are:—Centres to the organs of generation, the bladder, and rectum, situated in the lower part of the cord; vaso-motor centres, and centres for the secretion of sweat all through the cord. For the cilio-spinal centre, see vol. i., page 546. TROPHIC SYSTEM OF NERVES. This system of nerves presides over the nutrition of the tissues and of the spinal cord. It seems, so far as is at present known, to consist of three divisions. The First Division, or system, of trophic cells, is situated in the grey matter of tlie cerebrum, and presides over the nutrition of the motor tracts of the cord. The Second Division, or system, of trophic cells, is found in the cells of the anterior horn of the cord, and presides over the nutrition of the voluntary muscles. The Third Division, or system, of trophic cells, is found in the ganglia of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and presides over the sensory tracts of the cord. Of the third but little is known clinically; it may be that this is at the root of locomotor ataxia. When any part is cut off from its trophic supply, that part very speedily degenerates; thus, destroy the ganglia on the posterior root, and we find an ascending degeneration of the sensory tracts; in apoplexy, where the motor tracts are severed from their trophic cells, we find a descending degeneration of these tracts; and in infantile paralysis, where the cells in the anterior horn are destroyed, the muscles nourished from the destroyed area undergo rapid atrophy, and give the "reaction of degeneration" with the galvanic current. In order to fix the previous anatomical and physiological facts in the student's memory, I will apply them, as far as possible, to two common diseases—ordinary apoplexy, and infantile paralysis.241 Snygica/, Medical, and Operative. Apoplexy, a lesion in the First Division of the Trophic System ;— 1. There is a loss of motion and sensation on the opposite side of the body, as most of the fibres involved in the brain cross in the medulla, or cord, to tire other side. 2. There may be slight weakness of the same side from the presence of the direct or uncrossed pyramidal tract. 3. The paralysed muscles do not waste, as they are still con- nected with their trophic centres, and therefore their nutrition is unaffected. -1. At first the paralysed limb may bo warmer than its fellow, from the paralysis of the vaso-motor fibres Avhich are found in the crossed pyramidal tract, and are destroyed with its degeneration. 5. The crossed pyramidal, or tract of the opposite side of the cord, and the uncrossed, or direct, of the same side, degenerate, usually in about two months after the attack; this is evidenced by— G. Exaggerated tendon reflexes, as the inhibitory fibres for spinal reflex action descend in the degenerated tract, and are therefore destroyed; also by— 7. The rigidity (= the '■'■late, rigidity") of the paralysed limbs, the arm being held in the flexed position and the leg in the extended; also by the— S. Resistance to passive movement; the arm resists very power- fully all sudden attempts to straighten it, and the leg, to flex it. 9. The electrical reactions of the paralysed muscles are (|uite normal, as their trophic cells are unharmed. Ill some cases there is great pain and spasm of the muscles immediately after the attack (= tlic " earlij rigidity"); this shows that the nerve elements arc not destroyed, as they can still react to stimuli, and the prognosis is therefore good; late rigidity is a consequence and proof of destruction of the nerve elements, and tlie prognosis is therefore hopeless as regards cure of the condition.Applied Anatomy: 242 Infantile Paralysis, a lesion in the Second Division of the Trophic System—the large cells in the anterior cormi. 1. There is immediate paralysis of one muscle, a group or groups of muscles. 2. There is great and rapid wasting of the affected muscles, as they are cut off from their trophic centres. 3. The reflexes in the affected area are abolished since the lai'ge cells are destroyed. 4. The muscles do not become rigid but remain preternaturally flaccid. This is perhaps the great cause of club foot. 5. The electrical reaction is altered, the muscles giving the " reaction of degeneration." In Apoplexy, the primary lesion, pathologically speaking, is comparatively insignificant, the secondary changes induced being far more serious than the original injury. In Infantile Paralysis, one of the special features is that it reaches its maximum extent and intensity at once, and any further change is towards improve- ment. It does not induce .secondary changes in the cord. Many years ago, Mr Hutchinson pointed out a possible connection between infantile paralysis, herpes zoster, and localised sclero- derma (morpha'a). Neither of these affections tend to spread, and they are all developed to their full extent at once; in all there is a tendency to reparation, to a certain extent; in none, as a rule, do second attacks occur; and in each case we are alike ignorant of the predisposing influences, and of the means of cure. In infantile jDaralysis, a motor nerve is affected; in herpes zoster, a sensory nerve; while in scleroderma, a vaso-motm- nerve is pro- bably at fault. Note also that in lesions affecting the surface of the cord— e.g., acute meningitis,—the symptoms are tliose of irritation of the motor and sensory functions of the cord, such as the intense pain in the back and shooting along the spinal nerves, spasms and rigidity of the muscles, e.(j., as often seen in spinal caries. In lesions of the substance of the cord,—aj., acute myelitis,—the symptoms are rather those of paralysis of muscles, and anesthesia, coming on rapidly, while the pain in the back and along the spinal nerves is not well marked ; l;ut there !i.re wcll-inarked trophic243 Surgical, Illedical, and Operative. changes, -witli acute bed-sores, and trouble with the bowel and bladder—iiicoutinence of fjeces and retention of urine. The corresponding affections of the brain very closely resemble those of the cord: note the intense headache, the excited faculties, and the motor spasm in meningitis; the comparative absence of pain sluggish pupils, and soporose condition of the patient in cerebritis, analogous to myelitis of the cord. Tumours within the Vertebral Canal.—The general symptoms are due to slow compression, and its results. There is at first l>aresis, passing into complete paralysis of motion and sensation, below the seat of the lesion; the deep reflexes are exaggerated, and there may be some alteration in the functions of micturition and defecation. There is usually well-marked " girdle pain," cor- responding to the nerves given off at the upper limit of the lesion ; there is also localised pain in the back. If aneurism, spinal caries, sypliilis, and malignant disease can be excluded, the indication for treatment is to trephine the spine and remove the tumour; tlie lioint for trephining is the upper limit of the lesion as indicated })y the "girdle pain." The sensory phenomena are not, as a rule, so marked as the motor, except in cases of malignant disease, when the pain is very intense—"paraplegia dolorom." The symptoms are at first limited to one side of the body, but go on slowly increasing till both sides are involved; at first there is mere weakness of one side, but this advances to complete paraplegia. It maybe mistaken for neuralgia, or even hypochondriacal insanity, as the patient's mind almost gives way under the continued suffering. Tumours and Swellings of Spinal Canal.—(1) Inflammatory, as gummata, tubercular deposits, abscess from spinal caries, and fungous granulations from the same cause, becoming transformed into fibrous tissue afterwards, and gi-adually compressing the cord. (2) Simple Tumours, as psanunoma, myxoma, fibroma, exostosis, i-habdo-myoma, dermoid and hydatid cysts. The cord may also be compressed from lu'emorrhage. (.3) Malignant Tumours, usually sarcomata, beginning on or in the bones surroujiding the canal. ^V'■(; may also find secondary cancerous deposits. In tumours beginning in the cord itself, as glionui, the paralytic symptoms wuuld be better marked, and developed at an earlier date in the cuursc of the disease than in tumours outside the cord.Applied Aiuitoiiiy: The Spinal Cord is protected from injury by—(1) The ctuvcs of the spine, which deaden the shock and hreak up the force; (2) the chistic inter-vertebral discs, -which act like bnfl'ers; (3) tlie general flexibility of tlie spine, so that it can give to a certain extent without breaking; {\) the small amount of movement at any one point; (6) the wide size of the canal, and the small size of the cord, together with its central position; (G) the gap left between the membranes and the bone; and (7) the fluid in the membranes and the mooring of the cord in the centre of this canal of fluid by the ligamentum denticulatum, so that it is but little affected by the movements of the spine. The cord, as such, stops at the lower border of the lirst lumbar vertebra; its lower part is protected by the tough "cauda equina." The membranes, however, pass as far down as the second sacral vertebra, and inflammation therefore might easily spread up from this point. The parts most apt to be injured are—(1) The atlo-axoid region, because it is so near the skull, and because at the foramen magnum the cord with its membranes fill tlie canal; (2) the cei-vico-dorsal region, because here the flexible cervical joins the inflexible dorsal part; and (3) the dorso-lumbar region, for the same reason, and also because it is near the centre of the column, and hence there is great leverage above and below this point. FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. It is wise in all cases of supposed fi'acture of the spine not lu make too sure of the diagnosis, lest during manipulation we displace tlic bones and crush the cord. In dislocation of the first vertebra from the second, or in fracture of the odontoid process, the patient will necessarily die at once, or, at the latest, in but a fcAv minutes, ;is the odontoid process, or else the arch of the axis, presses on the medulla destroying the respiratory and cardiac centres. So also in any fracture-dislocation above the origin of the phrenic nerves (chiefly from the fourth and fifth) the patient usually dies in a few minutes. Below this point, say between the fifth and the sixth, or the sixth and the seventh, the patient may live a few days, but with everything below the injured point paralysed—arm, log, abdominal muscles, bladder and bowel, etc.,—though at tlie same time the intellect remains clear. The breathing is entirely245 Surgical^ Medical, and Operative diapliragmatic, and is rapid; but this is not sufficient to maintain life, and tlie patient gradual!}' dies comatose, the lungs after death being found congested and markedly oedematous; this is because the patient is unable to cough, since the abdominal muscles are paralysed. In fracture-dislocation of the lower dorsal region, the prognosis is fairly good, provided the patient can be kept alive; there is usually a considerable improvement in from six months to two years. The chief points to be attended to are careful nursing to avoid bed-sores (often acute or tropldc), and special attention to the bladder and bowels, drawing off the urine at least twice a daj'. Tor the first fortnight there is usually retention of urine, from paralysis of the detrusor centre, or else from some Avant of co- ordination between the higher and lower centres, so that it must be drawn off, and this constitutes the dangerous period; for if the catheter be not thoroughly purified, or if, during the emptying of the bladder, while applying pressure over the pubes, the hand is raised before the catheter is withdrawn, the abdominal wall springs back and air is sucked into the bladder, fermentation is started, and this leads to severe septic cystitis, suppurative pyelo-nephritis, and death. This condition of retention, in the course of two or three weeks, however, gradually passes into complete incontinence, probably from the destruction of the centre for the sphincter. The centre is in the lumbar enlargement of the cord, and the connections pass along the third and fourth sacral nerves. In the case of the rectum, there is at first involuntary passage of its contents, but by-and-by the centre regains itself. It is a curious fact that in cases of complete or partial recovery the centre for the bowel seems to regain its function sooner than the bladder centres; it is common enough for the bowel to recover itself, even though the urinary centres are still deranged, and may remain so till the end of life. It is probably because the process is a less complex one, and comes to be performed in a purely reflex manner, Avith little or no help from the brain centre; the diflference may also depend to a certain extent on the koUcI nature of the contents. If the centre be actually destroyed there will be incontinence of fa?ces from the very first; but with urination it is different—this, apparent.ly, can rarely, if ever, come to l)e perfectly performed ruflexly, prolmbly because of the li(|uid nature of the excretion.246 Applied Anntoviy: As regards the causes of I'ractiire-tlislocation, it may be due to— (1) Indirect violence, as from extreme bending of the spine, usually- bending forwards, especially in the cervical region; (2) direct vio- lence, as from a blow with something heavy; or (3) a mixture of the two, as when a person in falling from a height strikes a bar and is then doubled over it—this is perhaps the worst of all. The cord may be entirely destroyed, while the tough dura mater remains untorn. The cord is beUeved to be injured at the moment the violence is applied, the displaced or fractured vertebraj crushing it to a pulp, as if between the two blades of a blunt and badly set shears, and after this partially springing back again to their places. "Girdle sensation" is usually present in fracture, but not so con- stantly in dislocation. In fractiu'e, also, of any extent, there will probably be some movable spinous processes—a circumstance that rather points to severe injury and smashing of the bodies. The cord, however, may be very seriously damaged, while there is but very little or almost no apparent deformity. A curious fact has been noted by Professor Chiene—viz., that if, when a person falls from a height on his feet, the os calcis, or the bones of the leg are broken, the spine is saved; but if the bones of the leg resist the shock, the s]3ine suffers. Just as when a watch falls, if the glass be smashed the Avorks escape; but if not, the works will probably be irreparably damaged. Girdle Sensation.—Girdle pain is often found in cord lesions, and usually corresponds to the upper limit of the lesion. It is due to the fact that at this point the cord is not yet completely destroyed, but is being irritated, as a zone of inflammation precedes the destructive change. It may be due also to the irritation of the nerve roots, as in spinal caries. There is a feeling as if a belt was tightly bound round the thorax or abdomen; the line of the belt is oblique, following the course of the intercostal or other nerves. It is often an early s;yTOptom in locomotor ataxia; it is also very niarlcod in spinal meningitis, but less so in myelitis. In connection with injuries of the spine, it should be noted that the spinal nerves do not arise from the cord opi)Osite the vertebnv after which they are named. The cervical nerves escape alove. tlie vcrtebrte after which they are named, the eighth being above the fii-st dorsal vertebra; the rest of the nerves escape Uloxo the vertebrae after247 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. which they are named. As regards their origin from the cord, the upper three cervical arise opposite the first two vertebrae; the other five cervical arise about one vertebra higher ujd than their points of exit from the canal. The dorsal nerves at the upper part are also about a vertebra higher up, but as we pass down the distance increases to one and a half and then to two, so that the eleventh dorsal spine corresjjonds to the first lumbar nerve; all the others are crowded opposite the twelfth dorsal and the first lumbar vertebroe. To put it shortly, it may be stated generally that— 1. The eight cervical nerves are found between the occiput and the sixth cervical spine. 2. The six upper dorsal are found between the seventh cervical and the fourth dorsal spine. 3. The six lower dorsal are found between the fifth and the tenth dorsal spines. 4. The five lumbar nerves arise opposite the eleventh and twelfth dorsal spines. 5. The five sacral arise opposite the first lumbar spine. According to Thorburn, the arrangement of the muscular nuclei of the cervical, or brachial, enlargement of the spinal cord is the following:— Supra-spinatu.s ami infra-spinatus, Teres minor ('!), jRicnps, t Bracliialis anticus, Deltoid, jSupinator lougus, ISufiinator brevis (?), Subscapularis, Pronators, Teres majoi', Latissinnis dorsi, Poctoralis major, 1 Triceps, ISemitus magmis, Extensors nf the wrist Flexors of the wrist, Interossei, Otlior intrinsic muscles of the hand, 4th Cervical Nerve. 5th Cervical Nerve. ycth Cervical Nerve. 7th Cervical Nerve. 8th Cervical Nerve. 11 st Dorsal Nerve,Applied Anatomy: In support of this view he states that in eases of complete crush of the spinal cord below the fifth cervical nerve, the upper extremities are abducted and elevated, and with rotation outwards of the humerus, together with flexion of the elbow and supination of the Avrist. These positions are due to tonic contraction of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles, together with the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinators, with paralysis of the other muscles of the limb. As regards sensation, Dr Ross has pointed out that the outer parts of the limb are supplied by the higher roots, and the inner by the lower, in continuous order. Erb's Paralysis.—This is a partial paralysis of the arm, the result of some injury to the neck, though it may come on apart from injury. The muscles affected are the deltoid, the biceps, brachialis anticus, and the supinators. It is believed to be due to disease or injury of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve roots— probably rupture of the fifth root. Thorburn maintains that the suf)ra-spinatus and the infra-spinatus escape in Erb's paralysis. Duchenne's Obstetrical Paralysis.—The distribution is some- what similar to the above, only the supra-spinatus and the infra- spinatus muscles are paralysed. It is produced in infants at birth, either by pressure from the position of the arm, or by traction on the neck with the finger or hook. Most of the cases slowly recover. It is believed to be due to rupture or bruising of certain of the cervical nerve roots, including the fourth root. The Cord itself may suffer in a variety of ways—(1) It may simjDly suffer from the primary " shock " or concussion, the effects of which pass off in a little, although the prognosis should be guarded; if there be sudden and complete paralysis at once it must either be from concussion or crushing. In concussion of the upper cervical region, the vagus, spinal accessory, and phrenic are likely to be irritated, causing a sense of suffocation, irregular action of the heart, and vomiting (vagus); spasm of the sterno-raastoid and trapezius (spinal accessory J, hiccup and girdle pain in the region of tlie diaphragm (2')hrenic). In the lower cervical regioii the ner^'cs of the brachial plexus arc apt to be disturbed. (2) There may be reactionary hfeniorrhage from a few hours after the accident to the end of the first two days, causing high temperature, paiji.249 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. and paralysis from pressure; tlie special feature here is that the paral3'sis is not at once but some hours after the injury. (3) At the end of ten days or a fortnight the symptoms of meningitis, or inflammation, may show themselves—fever, severe shooting pains along the course of the intercostal nerves, rigidity, and muscular spasm,—from irritation of the motor and sensory nerves, with hypertesthesia and excessive reflex irritability. This must be dis- tinguished from myelitis: meningitis is an irritative but myelitis is a destroying lesion, and, therefore, in myelitis the signs of ii'ritation are not so well marked, but the signs of paralysis are very well seen. There is a short irritative stage passing into motor and sensory paralysis, with probably trophic lesions, since the grey matter is affected, as severe cystitis, involuntary passage of fteces, bed sores, and the " reaction of degeneration " in the muscles affected. (4) The .symptoms of the immediate shock may pass off, leaving but little apparent ill effects, but slow ascending and descending degenerative changes may follow—chronic meningo-myelitis, even more to be dreaded than anything else—Avhich will ultimately carry off tlie patient. This condition is often seen after severe railway accidents—" railway spine." A fall on the lower end of the spine may produce injury to the cord or coccyx. In cord injury, the signs are as already described, with pain in the lower extremities. When the coccyx is injured, we may either get coccyodyuia or injury of the sacro-coccygeal joint: in this case, there is great pain caused by the muscles attached to the bone—the gluteus maximus, coccygeus, levator ani, and sphincter,—especially during defecation, and in women. The Reflexes.—The principal reflexes are—(1) The Epigastric, got by scratching the skin over the fourth, fifth, and sixth inter- costal spaces: this shows that the fourth to seventh pairs of dorsal nerves are uninjured. (-2) The Abdominal, got by stroking the side of the abdomen from the edge of the ribs downwards: this shows that the eighth to twelfth pairs of dorsal nerves are safe. (.3) The Cremasteric, by stroking the skin on the inner .side of the thigh when the testicle i.s draAvn up: tliis shoAvs tliat the first and second lumbar nerves are all right. This reflex is best marked in boys. The reflex centre for the knee jerk is said to be opposite the third and fourth lumbar nerves: the gluteal at the fourth andApplied Anatomy: 250 fifth: ankle clonus at the first and second sacral: and the plantar reflex at the fourth and fifth sacral. The cord may be compressed from other causes than traumatism; it may be compressed during the course of caries, from the bodies falling together, also from malignant disease of the bones or parts near, from aneurism, from hydatid cysts, and from meningeal tumours. When both the lower limbs are paralysed, and sensation lost as high as the navel, it indicates a lesion as high as the ninth dorsal nerve. If, in addition to this, the muscles of the belly wall and intercostals are paralysed, and sensation lost as high as the second rib and a portion of the inner side of the arm, it indicates a lesion as high as the first dorsal nerve. If still higher, say up to the fifth cervical, the upper limbs will be paralysed and the respiration Avill be entirely diaphragmatic. The seventh dorsal nerve supplies the skin over the pit of the stomach, and it has been said that " belly-ache " has been diagnosed instead of disease of the spine, the jDain being referred to the peripheral termination of the nerve. In like manner also, in atlo-axoid disease, the great occipital nerve is implicated, causing intense headache, which may lead the Surgeon off the scent, especially in the case of children, who persistently complain of a " sore head." Trephining tiie Spine.—The object of this operation is to cut down on the vertebral column, remove a few of the spinous pro- cesses and laminae, in order to relieve the cord from the pressure of displaced or broken vertebra?, or from the pressure of eff"used blood; tlie cord is often crushed against the laminas, and their removal allows it to curve round the projection without undue pressure. The great risk of such an operation is septic meningitis, as it converts the simple wound into a compound; but if tlie Surgeon has sufiicient faith in antiseptic principles, and in his own ability to carry them out, it matters but little, as the wound will readily heal, and the patient is in no worse a condition than before. The operation will only be of use where the paralysis is due to pressure of bone or blood effusion, but will do no good should the case be one of rupture of the cord, or wliere the cord is crushed to a pulp inside the untorn dura mater. A septic wound in this region is specially dangerous from the large number of venous plexuses in connection with Mie vertebne.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 251 The dorsi-spinal veins, which return the blood from the skin and muscles of the back, surround the various processes of the vertebra?, and then perforate the ligamenta subflava and join the posterior longitudinal set of veins in the spinal canal; these in turn com- municate with the anterior longitudinal set, and this set again witli the vena' basis veiiehrarum. For these reasons a septic wound is specially apt to be followed by pyaemia and death. Dr Macewen, of Glasgow, has also operated with complete success for the relief of paraplegia, due to angular curvature; in such cases pressure may be exerted on the cord by new growths of connective tissue, or else by direct displacement of the bodies of the vertebrae The paraplegia is often accompanied Avith incontinence of urine and fa3ces, placing the patient in a most dei^lorable condition. An incision is made along the tips of the spinous process, the tendinous connections are divided, and then the soft parts are shelled aside from the bone by means of a periosteal elevator, the haimorrhage being arrested by sponge pressure. The laminae are then divided and removed over the affected jDart, the cord exposed, and the new connective tissue growth removed. It may be neces- sary to open the dura mater, and in such a case it must be carefully stitched up again at the conclusion of the operation, otherwise the cerebro-spinal fluid will drain away. Dr Macewen has a special set of instruments for this operation. SPINA BIFIDA. This has been defined as a congenital hernia of the spinal membranes through a fissure in the walls of the canal; it is most frequently situated at the lower part of tlie vertebral column, Avhere it forms a rounded tumour lying in tlie middle line of the back, ttuctuating, and may be transparent, and adhering to the l.'ones of the column. It may be possible to feel the liole in the canal and the absence of tlic spinous processes of the vertebnii in that situation; it may be partially reducible with the production of nervous symptoms. It is often associated with paralysis of tlie limbs, sphincters, or with convulsions; also witli clul) foot (especially talipes equiuo-varus) and hydrncephalus. To understand its mode of origin it will be necessary to refei' to the development of a typical vertebra. There are threeprhnarij252 Applied Anatomy: centres—one for the bodj^, which appears about the eighth week of fojtal hfe, and one for each himina which appear about the sixth Aveek; the secondarii centres for the processes and upper and lower surfaces of the body do not concern \is at present. The laminiB should unite behind during the first year of extra-uterine life, and the ossification begins above and passes downwards, so that naturally the lower dorsal and sacral laminae are the last to close, and it is exactly in this situation that spina bifida is most frequently found. Varieties of Spina Bifida, —(1) Spinal Meningocele, where the membranes of the cord alone protrude, forming a sac filled with cerebro-spinal fluid. In this case the unaffected cord lies in the middle of the canal as usual. The spinal nerves come off from the sides of the cord, and pass outwards and forwards to make their exit at the inter-vertebral foramina. (2) Meningo-Myelocele, where the sac is formed, not only by the membranes, but by the nerve roots, and even part of the cord itself. The unaltered cord is usually attached to the posterior wall of the sac. The spinal nerves spring from their usual point of origin, and pass across the cavity of the sac to make their exit at the inter-vertebral foramina. This is the most common form. (3) Syringo-Myelocele.—In this form the membranes also form part of the sac wall, but the cliief feature is that the central canal of the cord itself is dilated to form the sac—the inner lining of the sac being formed by the expanded and atroplaied substance of the cord. The spinal nerves arise from tlieir usual situation, and then curve round the expanded cord, pass- ing forwards to reach the inter-vertebral foramina. (4) Myelocele.— In myelocele there is no marked tumour, the spread out halves of the cord being almost on a level with the skin. It forms a triangular rosy-pink surface, with the apex above, and in the angle we find a small opening—the central canal of the cord. The surface is very vascular, being covered with a closely set plexus of enlarged and tortuous capillaries (Sutton). The spinal nerves emerge from the anterior surface of the spread out and flattened halves of the cord, and pass forwards to gain the intcr-vertebral foramina. In this case, therefore, not only are the laminae of the vertebrEB deficient, but, in addition to this, the primitive dorsal larainaj of the blastoderm, which bound the original neural or253 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. cerebi'O-spiual groove, luivc not united at tlic point in question. In the case of lueningo-niyeloccle (the common form) it is often possible to trace a median furroAV on the sac wall, or detect an "umbilicus"; this indicates the point at -wliich the cord joins the wall of the sac. (5) Spina bifida occulta is merely a deficiency in the lamin;e, but without any visible external tumour; it is common to lind a hairy mole over the part, and, as in the other forms, it is often accompanied by talipes equino-varus, and sometimes by " perforating ulcer" of the foot. The skin over the ordinary forms is often thin and translucent and bluish, from dilated capillaries, closely resembling a nan-us. The same principles of diagnosis must be adopted as in the corresponding conditions of the cranial vault. We have—(1) A tumour iu the middle line; (2) on deej) pressure, the spinous pro- cesses are found to be absent and the laminae defective, and hence a hole is made out, with a bony rim round it; (-3) it is reducible, wholly or in part, with the production of nervous symptoms and increased fullness in the anterior foutanello; and (4) it becomes fuller and tenser when the child cries, or durhig strong expiratory efforts, and is probably associated- with hydrocephalus, club foot, or paralysis of the lower extremities. From fatty tumours, dermoid and other cysts, and a spina bifida whose communication with the spinal canal has been cut off (false i^pina bifida), the diagnosis is made as in the corresponding affections of the head. The greatest difficulty, in some cases, is to distinguish it from a na.ivus, and in very doubtful cases a hypodermic syringe must be used; sometimes, too, there is a large mass of fat coveriug a small spina bifida, and hi I'i'moving the supposed fatty tumoui' the cyst has been opened and death residted from septic meningitis. In such cases the mass of fat is deeply placed, often extending into the canal, and fixed to the spine. It may be associated with paralysis of the lower extremities. ()cca.':'ionally, too, a sebaceous or dermoid cyst may be found under the hairy patch in cases of ftpina bifida ocmlfa. Again, a small meningocele may be found in the centre of congenital sacral tumours; this, however, is very rare. A s])ina bifida must not be confounded with a congenital sacro-cnccygeal tumour, nor with an attached fwtus, or with a tumour containing the remains of a ujjpresscd fcctus, or, as it is callcil, a Teratoma. A congenitalApplied Anatomy: 254 sacro-coccygcal tumour usually lies iu frout of tlic coccyx and lower part of the sacrum, Leliind the rectum and below the levator ani. An attached, or suppressed, foetus is placed higher up than a sacro- coccygeal tumour, aud a spina bifida higher up still, being usually found in the lumbar region. Acqiuired Tumours in this region are—Sebaceous cysts, lipoma, fibroma, and sarcoma. Occasionally a large abscess may be found in this situation iu connection with spinal caries. Treatment.—As in other forms of congenital hernia, the cure is sometimes spontaneous, and therefore it is advisable to wait a few months before doing anything. The natural tendency is usually towards death, either from bursting of the sac leading to convulsions, or from hemiplegia and its effects on the bladder and bowel; at times, again, it may cure by becoming blocked off from the canal. In cases where the tumour is large and threatening to burst, tapping, followed by pressure, has occasionally cured tlie condition. Ligature and excision of the sac has been tried, but usually Avith a fatal result, from meningitis; drainage has also been tried, but has always been fatal Ijy convulsions, from the too rapid escape of fluid. A very common cause of death is meningitis, set up by inflammation of the sac and the tissues over it. Morton's Method.—This seems to be the most successful and safest mode of treatnient yet discovered. About half the fluid iu the sac is withdrawn by a small trochar, introduced obliquely at the upper part, and through the sound textures, to avoid leakage afterwards, and in such a way as to avoid large veins and nerves, Avhich can best be doue by examining the swelling in a dark room by transmitted light; it will also be better to make the trochar traverse sound tissue for some little distance before its point enters the sac. A syringe is then filled with Morton's solution and emptied into the sac through the canula. The quantity injected M'ill necessarily vary according to the size of the tumour, but half a drachm may be taken as the average. As the cannula is removed, the edges of the wound must be grasped to prevent the entraiice of air, and the opening then sealed up with flexible collodion and cotton wool, and supported by a pad and bandage. Morton's Solution.—Iodine ten grains, and potasii iodidi thirty grains, to an ounce of glycerine. The glyccrijie prevents diffusionSiirg^ical, Medical, and Operative. 255 upwards through the cerehro-spinal fluid, and thus keeps tlie iodine iu contact with the wall of the sac. In those who habitually carry heavy weights on their Lack— as sacks of coal, flour, etc., a bursa is often developed over the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebne (the vertehra pwminens) which is liable to all the diseases that attack burste elsewhere. Syringomyelia.—A name applied by Ollivier to cases in which cavities of different kinds are met with Avithin the substance of the spinal cord, either connected with the central canal or not. This must not, however, be confounded with congenital and wide- spread distension of the central canal of the cord—Hydromyelia. Hydrorrachis is a generic term applied to any distension of the sjjinal canal, or its membranes, by cerebro-spiual fluid. Syringo- myelia is not congenital but acquired, and may possibly result from traumatism. Various symptoms are said to accompany this condition—(1) Progressive muscular atrophy and paralysis of one limb, but often extending to the opposite limb of the body. (2) A'asomotor and trophic disturbances in the affected limb, Avith lessened excretion of sweat. (3) Loss of the sensations of pain and temperature in the atrophied part, while the senses of touch and location may be preserved. Costal Arches. — There are usually seven costal cai'tilages attached to the sternum, corresponding to the seven true ribs. Occasionally, however, there are eight costal cartilages attached to the sternum, this peculiarity occurring most frequently in negroes. Again, there may be eight on one side—usually the right—and seven on the other. Curiously enough, the Chimpanzee and the Gorilla have eight true rilis, with eight costal cartilages attached to the sternum ; in the Ourang the arrangement is the same as in man, Avhile in tlic Gibbon the eighth costal cartilage almost touclies the sternum. Costo-Sterna! Articulations.—Tlic cartilage of the first rib is directly continuous with the sternum, without any synovial nu3ni- brane; the second and third have each two synovial membranes, \vhilc the other four cartilages have only one each. Cleft Sternum. — The foui' pieces forming the body of the slcrniini arc usually (levelo]iod fr(un a single median centre forApplied Anatomy: 256 each piece; occasionally, however, the lower two or three pieces of the body are developed from two centres, each placed laterally. Sometimes the lateral centres fail to unite, giving rise to a con- dition known as sternal fissure, where there is a narrow slit left, or denial foramen, where there is a larger hole left between the pieces. The upper border of the sternum, at the end of expiration, is on a level with the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebra. Lymphatics of the Thorax.—The glands of this cavity are divided into—(1) Tntcrcodal, placed between the two sets of intercostal muscles. (2) The Internal Mammary, in close relation with the internal mammary vessels. (3) The Anterior Mediastinal placed in the loose tissue of that space. (4) The Posterior Medias- tinal, round the aorta and the cesophagus, communicating on each side with the intercostal, below with the lumbar, and above with the deep cervical glands; they also receive communications from the bronchial glands, Avhich return the lymph from the lungs. The bronchial glands are situated around the bifurcation of the trachea and root of the lung; these glands, as well as the anterior mediastinal group, are enlarged in the various forms of lymphadenoma, and in cancerous affections, and may give rise to difficulty of breathing from pressure on the air passages. TABLE OF PARTS OPPOSITE THE SPINES OF THE VERTEBRAE (slightly modified from Holden). Cervical Region,—5th. Cricoid cartilage: the pharynx ends: the a3sophagus begins. 6th. 7th. Apex of the lung: slightly higher in the female than the male. Dorsal Region. — 1st. 2nd. 3rd. Aorta reaches the spine (left side of the body of the fourth vertebra): apex of lower lobe of lung: angle of bifurcation of the trachea. 4th. Aortic arch ends (left side ot the body of tlie fifth vertebra): upper level of heart.257 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Dorsal Region. — 5th. 6th. Level of aortic semilunar valves, towards left side, and beginning of the aorta. 7th. 8th. Lower level of the heart: central tendon of the diaphragm. 9th. CEsophagus and inferior vena cava pass through the diaphragm: upper level of the spleen: cardiac orifice of the stomach. 10th. Lower edge of lung: liver comes to the sur- face posteriorly. 11th. Lower border of spleen: supra-renal cap- sules: upper end of left kidney, right a little lower. 12th. Lowest part of pleura: the aorta passes through the diaphragm: pyloric opening of stomach, and level of pylorus: origin of coeliac axis. Lumbar Region.—1st. Eenal arteries: ujiper and widest part of the pelvis of the kidney: hilus of kidney: pancreas. 2nd. End of spinal cord: level of duodenum and receptaculum chyli. 3rd. Umbilicus: lower border of kidney: point at which the pelvis joins the ureter on tlie left side. 4th. Bifurcation of abdominal aorta: highest point of iliac crests: point at which the pelvis joins the ureter on the right side. 5th. Formation of inferior vena cava. IMPORTANT LANDMARKS near the Middle Line in Trent, together with the corresponding levels behind. Ist Cervical.—Hard palate on a level with the anterior arch of the atlas: position also of a gland that receives lymphatics from the nose.258 Applied Anatoniy : 2ncl Cervical.—Transverse process of the atlas just below and in front of tlie mastoid i^rocess, and is the deep guide to tlie position of the spinal accessory nerve at the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle: the lower edge of the teeth of the upper jaw on a level with the body of the axis. 3rd Cervical. 4th Cervical.—Level of the hyoid bone. 5th Cervical.—Between the fourth and sixth vertebrte we find the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyroid cartilage, and the crico- thyroid membrane; the middle of the thyroid cartilage corresponds to the level of the true vocal cords. 6th Cervical.—Level of the cricoid cartilage: "carotid tubercle" (anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra). Just above or at this j)oint the common carotid is usually tied in the high operation: it coiTesponds also to the point at which the omo-hyoid crosses the common carotid: just below this level the vertebral artery is tied, using the " carotid tubercle " as deep guide. It also cor- responds to the end of the pharynx; the beginning of the oesophagus; the beginning of the rings of the trachea; and just below it, the trachea is opened in the liigh operation of tracheotomy. Sterno-Claviciilar Articulation corresponds to the formation of the innominate veins, the bifurcation of the innominate artery, the common carotid on the left side, and still fm-ther back, the anterior edge of the lungs. Upper Edge of Sternum is on a level with the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebrfB, at the end of expiration. Anterior End of First Rib, on a level with the posterior end of the fourth, and so on for the others: the anterior end of second on a level with the posterior end of the sixth: the third with tlie seventh, etc. Ridge on Sternum at Junction of Manubrium and Gladiolus.— This corresponds to the level of the second rib, and is, therefore, a useful landmark when counting the ribs: it also corresponds to the highest point of the arch of the259 Surg'ical, Aledical, and Operative. aorta, the bifurcation of the trachea, the origin of the innominate artery (over the middle of the sternum), also the origin of the left common cai'otid and left subclavian arteries: at its right side is the "aortic area"—^junction of second right costal cartilage with the sternum. Space below Second Rib corresponds to the level of the base of the heart. Third Left Costal Cartilage: at its junction with the sternum is the " pulmonary area " and position of pulmonary valves, and behind this, aortic valves and beginning of the aorta. Tliird Intercostal Space: opposite this point, about one incli to the left of the sternum, we find the mitral valves, but not the " mitral area:" the mitral valves are the deepest (furthest back) of all the valves of the heart. Fourth Costal Cartilages: near this level we find the "tricuspid area" and the tricuspid valves: at this point the anterior edge of the left lung leaves the sternum, exposing the anterior wall of the heart. Over or just below the fourth costal cartilages we find the nipple in the male. Fifth Left Space, apex of heart about three and a half inches to tlie left of the middle line. Sixth Costal Cartilage, lower level of the anterior edge of the right lung. Seventh Left Cartilage, cardiac orifice of the stomach is just behind this, about one inch to the left of the sternum. Xiphi-Sternal Articulation, on a level with the ninth dorsal vertebra; it corresponds also to the lower border of the heart (margo acutus), the central tendon of the diaphragm, and the upper border of the liver in the middle line. Ninth Right Costal Cartilage; at this point the fundus of the gall bladder comes nearest the surface, close to the edge of the right rectus (right liuea semilunaris). Tip of Xiphoid Cartilage is on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra. Lower Edge of Liver, midway between the xiphoid cartilage and the umbilicus : just below this is the stomach, and the260 Applied Anatomy: pylorus is just to the right of the middle line, near the end of tlie eighth rib, or between two and three inches below the xiphi-sternal articulation: this point also, of course, corresponds to the beginning of the duodenum. Caeliac Axis, between four and five inches above the umbilicus: the superior mesenteric and supra-renal are just below this. Renal Arteries are fully three inches above the umbilicus. Pancreas, about three inches above the umbilicus, and opposite the body of the first lumbar vertebra. Duodenum, crosses the middle line on a level with the third lumbar vertebra, and ascends to the left side of the body of the second liunbar vertebra. Inferior Mesenteric Artery comes off about one inch above the umbilicus. Transverse Colon, lowest part of the arch, is found just above the umbilicus. Umbilicus, corresponds to the level of the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebra?, or the third spine behind, or about one inch above the highest points of the iliac crests. Aorta, bifurcates about one inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus, or on a level with the highest point of the iliac crests. Highest Point of Crests corresponds to the level of the fourtli lumbar vertebra. Promontory of Sacrum, a little below the level of the anterior superior Uiac sjjines. The Small Intestines fill up most of the space below the umbilicus. The Bladder.—Just above the pubes we find the bladder when distended with urine, and the pregnant uterus, after the fourth month. External Abdominal Ring, corresponds to the crest of the pubes— that part between the spine of the pubes and tlie angle or symphysis.261 Surgical, Jlfedica/, niid Openxtive. CHAPTER XXXVI. THE ABDOMEN. Regions.—It is subdivided iuto nine regions by means of two vertical and two horizontal lines (Fig. 175). The two horiwntaJ lines are drawn, one at the level of the ninth costal cartilages, the other at the level of the highest points of the iliac crests—some say the anterior superior iliac spines. The two vertical lines are drawn, one on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre of Poupart's ligament, so that they shall be parallel with the middle line of the body. The upper thi'ee regions are called—(a) The right hypochondriac, (&) the epigastric, and (c) the left hypochondriac: the middle three are called—(a) the right lumbar, (h) the umbilical, and (c) the left lumbar: and the lower three are called—(«) The right iliac, (h) the hypogastric, and (c) the left iliac. This will be more easily remembered by a simple arrangement like the following :— Riglit Hypochondriac. ]*',pigastiic. Left Hypoclioiidriac. Right Lumljar. Umbilical. Left l>iii)iliar. Riglit Iliac. Hypogastric. Left Iliac. The following is a fairly complete list of the Structures found in each region :— 1. Right Hypochondriac.—The right lobe of tlie liver M-ith the gall-bladder, duodenum, head of pancreas (very sliglitly), hepaticApplied Anatomy : 2C2 flexure of tlie colon, upper part of the right kidney, and ilie right supra-renal capsule. 2. Left Hypochondriac. — Part of the stomach, the spleen, the tail of the pancreas, splenic flexure of the colon, upper part of the left kidney, and left supra-renal capsule. 3. Right Lumhar.—Ascending colon, part of the right kidney, duodenum and head of pancreas, and some convolutions of the small intestines. Fig. 175. Anterior Abdominal Wall. V V 1. Anterior Superior Spine. 2. Spine of the Pubes. 3. Symphysis Tubis. 4. External Iliacs. K. Kidney. U. Umbilicus. A. Abdominal Aorta. T. C. Transverse Colon. V. V. Vertical Linos. H. H. Horizontal Lines.263 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. t. Left Lumbar. — Descending colon, part of omentum, part of left kiilney, and some convolutions of the small intestines. 5. Eight Inguinal (Iliac).—The csecum with its appendix. 6. Left Inguinal (Iliac).—Sigmoid flexure of colon. 7. Epigastric.—The pyloric end of the stomach, left lobe of the liver and lobulus SiDigelii, and body of pancreas C?) 8. Umbilical.—Transverse colon, part of the great omentum and mesentery, transverse part of duodenum, body of pancreas, and some convolutions of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum). 9. Hypogastric.—Convolutions of the small intestines, bladder in the child, and in adults if distended, the pregnant uterus after the fourth month. It sliould be noted that the kidneys are much nearer the middle line than generally supposed and extend weU into the umbilical region. Rectus Muscle.—This is a broad, flat muscle which stretches between the chest and the piibes on each side of the linea alba. It arises by two heads, the larger from the crest of the pubes, the other from the ligaments in front of the symphysis pubis. It is inserted into the anterior surface of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. Lineae Transversse.—These are irregular tendinous intersec- tions which divide up the rectus into several segments. They are usually three in number, and are situated—one at the level of the umbilicus, a second opposite the ensiform cartilage, and a third midway between these two; a fourth is sometimes found midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis (Fig. 176, a). These intersections are closely adherent to and blend with the anterior part of the sheath, but have no attachment behind. Many cases of so-called Phantom Tumours are due to partial contraction of the recti, a particular segment of the muscle being in a state of long-continued tonic spasm, and forming a rounded mass under the hand. To diagnose, divert the i)atient's attention during examination, or change her position, but the crucial test is chloro- form ; when the patient is under chloroform the tumour completely disappears.Applied Anatomy: 264 Sheath of the Rectus.—The rectus is entirely enveloped in a fibrous slieatli, except at the very upper part, Avliere the posterior surface of the luusclc rests on the costal cartilages, and at the lower part, from a point midway between the umbilicus and the Fig. 176. Anterior Abdominal Wall. 1. lucision for Opeiimg into the Stomacli, 2. Incision for Operations on tlie Spleen. 3. Incision for Ligature of the External Iliac. 4. Incision for Ligature of the Common Iliac. 5. Incision to reach the Kidney from the Front. 6. Anterior Superior Iliac Spine. 7. Spine of Tubes. 8. Symphysis Pubis. a. a. a. a. Linea; Transvers.e. 1). Position of the "Semilunar Fold of Douglas." c. Linea Alba. d. Eight Linea Semilunaris, c. Situation of the Pylorus. cj. Situation of the Fundus of the Giili-Bladder. u. Umbilicus.2G5 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. sympliysis pubis, wlicre tlie same surface rests on the transversalis fascia. The sheath is formed by tlie splitting of the ajjoneurosis of the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen, one half passing in front, the other behind the muscle. From the ensiform cartilage to a point midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis, the anterior half is joined by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the posterior half by the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle; hence, at this part of its course, the sheath consists of a layer and a half in front of the muscle, and a layer and a half behind it (see Fig. 178). But from the point above indicated to the symphysis pubis, all the three layers pass in front of the rectus, and the muscle rests behind on the fascia transversalis (Fig. 177). The lower free margin of the posterior lamella usually presents a Fig. 177. Sheath of Rectus. (From Ciinninoham's " Abdunion.") lixteriiid (.)bliquc. liitenial Oblique. 'J'niiisvcr.siUis. J-'ascia Transversalis. Tlic formation of the lower part of the Sheath of the Rectus is here exhibited. The dotted line represents the Peritoneum. sharp, semilunar edge, with the concavity towards the pubes; this corresponds to the point where all the layers pass to the front of the muscle, and is known as the semilunar fold of Dowjlas. It is at this point that the deep epigastric artery enters the sheath of the rectus. Contents of the Sheath.—(1) The rectus muscle; (2) the pyramidalis muscle; (3) the terminal twigs of the six lower inter- costal nerves and the last dorsal nerve; (4) the superior epigastric artery (one of the terminal branches of the internal mammary); and (.5) the deep epigastric artery. The Linea Semilunaris (Fig. 17G, r/).—This is a curved line' at the outer edge of each rectus muscle, and corresponds therefore to the line along which the aponeurosis of the internal obliqueApplied Anatomy: 266 muscle splits to enclose them. It may be defined as a slightly curved line drawn from the tip of the ninth costal cartilage to the pubic spine; it is about three inches distant from the umbiUcus. The Linea Alba (Fig. 176, c).—This is marked on the surface by a slight depression in the middle line of the abdomen. It is a dense fibrous cord, passing downwards from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis, and is regarded as the continuation down- wards of the sternum; it is formed by the union and interlacing of the aponeuroses of the two oblique and transversalis muscles of the opposite sides. Above the umbilicus it is a little broader than it is below that point, as the recti do not come quite so close together; piercing it are several small round openings for the passage of blood-vessels, and through some of them little pellets of fat proceed. The fatty masses may enlarge and form "fatty hernia," or the openings may act as "local weaknesses," and be the starting point of a ventral hernia in the adult. At this point, therefore, the wall of the abdomen is thin and devoid of muscular tissue and blood-vessels; it is chosen for this reason, in many operations, as the best place at which to enter the abdomen, as ovariotomy, laparotomy, supra-pubic lithotomy, and paracentesis abdominis. At the upper part, the Superficial Fascia of the abdomen is thin and weak; but at the lower part it is much thicker, and contains numerous elastic fibres on its deep surface: this is the representative, in man, of a continuous layer of elastic tissue found in many animals—e.g., the horse, where it is known as the " abdominal tunic" or belt. At the lower part, the fascia is con- tinued over Podpakt's ligament, and enters the thigh; towards the middle line it is carried over the spermatic cords and penis, to tire scrotum and perinfeuni. In the thigh it is attached by its deep surface to the fascia lata, coinciding internally with Poupart's ligament, but externally some distance from that structure; over the spermatic cord there is a gap, it having no attachment at this point (see "Extravasation of Urine"). The Cutaneous Nerves of the abdomen are derived from the lower four or five intercostal nerves, the last dorsal, and the ilio- hypogastric; the sixth and seventh supply the skin over the pit of the stomach; the eighth, ninth, and tenth, the skin betM-eeuSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 267 tliis and the umbilicus; the others, with the ilio-hypogastric (from the first hinibar nerve), below this point—the latter nerve being just above the external abdominal ring. The ilio-inguinal, also iVom the first lumbar, passes through the external abdominal ring and is distributed to the scrotum and the inner aspect of the thigh. The iliac hranch of the last darsal {= the undivided lateral cutaneous brancli) crosses the iliac crest about two inches behind the anterior superior spine, and supplies the skin over the gluteal region; the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric also supplies the skin over the gluteal region, crossing the iliac crest a little behind its centre. It is important to remember the origin and course of these nerves, in order to ex])lain the referred pains so frequently present in disease of the spine, whether of bones or cord; such disease may be mistaken for disease of the stomach, " belly-ache," disease of the kidneys, bladder, or testicle, and also for sciatica, according to the segment of the cord affected: the nerves in con- nection with the respective parts being irritated and the pain referred to their peripheral terminations. The Lateral Muscles of the abdominal wall are—the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis; the different layers can move over each other to a certain extent, as between each there is a layer of cellular tissue. This fact explains the great difficulty that sinuses and fistuU\3 in the abdominal wall have in healing, as the muscles are moved at each respiration. Beneath the muscles comes a layer of fascia, and beneath this the extra- peritoneal fat, and then the peritoneum. The same general type of structure is observed at what we might call the roof of the abdomen (the diaphragm), and also in its floor (the pelvic dia- phragm) where the levator ani, visceral pelvic fascia, and extra- peritoneal fat and peritoneum constitute the diiferent layers. The Umbilicus and Umbilical Cord. — In the Adult, the umbilicus corresponds to the disc betAveen the third and fourth lumbar vertebra), and is about three-quarters of an inch above the bifurcation of the aorta, and the same distance above the highest point of the iliac crests. In the Foetus, it is close to the pidjes, but gradually rises, so that at birth it is midway between the ensiform cartilage and the pubes. The abdominal wall in front is formed of the combined cpiblast and the somatopleure layer ofAppHed A natomy: 2G8 the mesoljlast, and is at first an ojjen cleft witli the intestines protruding through it; this gradually closes, and the intestines are pulled into the abdomen, the last place to close being the region of the umbilicus. The Cord at birth consists of—(1) Two umbilical arteries, (2) one umbilical vein, (3) Whakton's jelly (mucous tissue), and (4) a serous covering derived from the amnion. At an earlier stage, in addition to the above we find— (1) The omphalo-mesenteric vessels, the seat of the first circulation; (2) the vitelline duct (vitello-intestinal), the duct of commimi- cation between the umbilical vesicle and the alimentary canal; (3) the stalk of the allantois; and (4) a fold of intestine. The last three structures are occasionally met with in the child at birth. ^ The Viteline duct, when jicrsistent to any extent, is known as Meckel's diverticulum; occasionally it is so long as to reach the umbilicus and may be pervious, when it forms an umbilical fiecal fistula. The Allantois.—The intra-abdominal part of this sac becomes the urinary bladder, and probably also the first part of the urethra; as the umbilicus rises and the abdominal wall closes, part of it is drawn out into an attenuated peduncle called the urachus: the urachus is occasionally patent, and discharges urine through the umbilicus. The Fold of Intestine is sometimes found and is apt to be injured, either during ligature of the cord or when the cord separates, forming another variety of fiecal fistula; its possible presence is one reason why the cord should be | tied at some little distance from the belly wall; if present, it forms a truly congenital hernia. In the interior of the abdomen of the child at birth, the umbilical vein courses upwards to the liver, the urachus passes down to the apex of the bladder, and the two umbilical arteries (now called the hypogastric arteries, and in the • adult the internal iliacs,) run down into the pelvis. In the adult, the umbilical vein becomes the round ligament of the liver; the urachus is the same as in the foetus, and the hypogastric arteries are represented by fibrous cords. AVhen the abdominal wall is . not completely closed around the umbilicus, and when the gut is not entirely withdrawn into the abdomen, we have the condition of true Exomphalos. Another defect in development is where ' the anterior part of the pelvic girdle and the lower part of the abdominal wall liave been arrested at an early part of theirSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 269 existence; this constitutes Extroversion of the Bladder. In this condition, the bodies of the puhic bones are imperfect, the symphysis is wanting, the recti muscles separate at the lower part, and pass obliquely outwards into what remains of the pubic bones. The lower part of the anterior abdominal wall and the anterior wall of the bladder are also wanting. The penis is cleft along its dorsal aspect, exposing the floor of the urethra, and constituting the condition known as epispadias; the cleft in the abdominal wall extends to the point where the cord enters, so that there is no umbilicus. The posterior wall of the bladder is pushed outwards by the intra-abdominal pressure and forms a red vascular tumour, about the size of a small orange, just above the pubes. It is also usually possible to see the openings of the ureters, and the iirine trickling from them. The Lymphatics of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus pass to the axillary and mediastinal glands; those below the umbilicus to the horizontal set of the superficial inguinal glands. The large belly met with in children is due to the flatter diaphragm, the large liver, the smaU pelvis, and the fact that the muscles of the abdominal wall, and the walls of the intestines are weak, and therefore flatus readily collects. In rickets all these conditions are intensified, and the liver and spleen are also abnor- mally large ; this condition is often known as " pot-belly." THE STOMACH. Three-fourths of this organ are placed in the left hypochondriac region, the remaining fourth in the epigastric region. The long axis of the hypochondriac part is almost vertical, the great fundus being the highest part of the organ, and not the oesophageal opening, as sometimes stated; the epigastric part is transverse in direction, and is placed about two or three inches below the ensiform cartilage. When the stomach is empty the pylorus lies just to the right of the middle line, and directed towards the right side (Fig. 176, e); but, when distended, the pylorus moves considerably to the right of this line, and the great curvature tilts forwards and upwards, and the pylorus points backwards. The cardiac orifice is placed behind the seventh costal cartilage, aljout an inch from the left border of the sternum; the fundus reaches a little aboveApplied Anatomy: 270 and behind the " apex beat," and it is easily understood, therefore, how an over-full stomach may interfere with the motions of the heart, and also cause dyspnoea, by forcing up the diaphragm and impeding the respiratory movements. The fundus is absent in newly-born children. Relations.—In front, we find the anterior abdominal wall, the diaphragm, and the under surface of the liver; behind, the crura of the diaphragm, the aorta, the pancreas, the splenic artery and vein, the superior mesenteric artery, the third part of the duodenum, the left kidney, the left supra-renal capsule, and the spleen, with the gastro-splenic omentum. JSTote the relation between the thii-d part of the duodenum and the posterior surface of the stomach. In Wolfler's operation, in cases of cancer of the pylorus too bad for excision, a fistulous communication is formed between the two viscera at this point. The operation is termed Gastro-Enterostomy. The upper end of the jejunum may also be attached to the stomach in preference to the third part of the duodenum. Above, we find the lesser omentum, with its contents, and the coeliac axis; below, the great omentum and the transverse colon. Peritoneal Connections. — («) The gastro - phrenic ligament, passing from the diaphragm to the angle between the oesophagus and the cardiac end; (h) the gastro-hepatic, or lesser omentum; (c) the gastro-colic or great omentum; and ((^) the gastro-splenic omentum. The Arteries of the stomach are—(1) The gastric or coronary, from the cceliac axis; (2) the f)yloric, from the hepatic; (3) the gastro-epiploica dextra, a division of the gastro-duodenalis; (4) the gastric (vasa hreviaJ, from the splenic; and (5) the gastro-epiploica sinistra, from the same source. The gastro-duodenal branch of the hejDatic divides into the gastro-epiploica dextra and the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery; the latter vessel, as the name imjjlies, supplies both the duodenum and the pancreas. In ulceration of the duodenum, occurring in connection Avith severe Burns, this artery may be perforated by the ulcer, resultmg in death from haemorrhage; the jperforation is most common from, the tenth to the fourteenth day of the burn, and is usually situated a little way from the pylorus. A Gastric Ulcer n\ay perforate one of the vessels of the stomach, and lead to sudden death from haemorrhage; it271 Sjirgical, Medical, and Operative. may also give rise to abscess between the liver and the diaphragm, just as duodenal nicer sometimes does. An abscess here presses down the liver and pushes np the diaphragm, and the pus may- even pass through it into the base of the lung, and be expectorated through the bronchi. The ulcer may also open into the peritoneal cavity, leading to fatal peritonitis. Gastrotomy.—An opening of a temporary character made into the stomach for the pnrpose of removing a foreign body. Gastrostomy. — An opening made into the stomach for the purpose of feeding the patient, and to establish a permanent gastric fistula. Operations of this nature may be rendered necessary in con- sequence of impermeable stricture of the oesophagus, to prevent the patient dying of starvation. There are four varieties of Stricture described—(1) The nervous or spasmodic—this form is usually intermittent, and if the patient can be induced to forget about it for the time being, the food passes quite easily. (2) Fibrous stricture, the result of -swallowing corrosive fluids and boiling water —this form may be dilated by passing bougies. (3) Cancerous —this is the most common form, and is apt to follow the fibrous variety. The bougie seems to pass over a rougliened surface, and its introduction is followed by the coughing up of blood, or blood and pus; the cervical glands will also probably be enlarged, and other signs of the " cancerous cachexia " present. By these means it may be diagnosed from fibrous stricture, and this will also be assisted by the history of the case. (4) There is also a peculiar form of stricture, met with in drunkards, probably from general cirrhosis of the mucous and submucous coats. Malignant disease is usually of the nature of squamous - celled epithelioma (the so-called "scirrhus"), and is mo.st frequently found opposite the cricoid cartilage (at the beginning of the oesophagus), next at the cardiac orifice, and, lastly, opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. As long as possible the patient may be fed with slops, or through a catheter, or by the use of artificially-digested foods per rectum; and, if these are not sufficient, the stomach may be opened. Another possible condition must always present itself to the student's mind, in connection with the diagnosis of stricture of the oesophagus— viz., aneurism of the aorta. This condition must alwai/s t)e e.rcluded he/ore cdfempting to imss a bougie. On account of the close relation272 Applied Anatomy: that exists between the aorta and the oesophagus, malignant disease of the (Esophagus is very apt to ulcerate into the aorta, and suddenly produce fatal haemorrhage. The patient is laid on his back, and, according to Sedillot, a crucial incision—each limb of which is about one inch and a half in length—should be made on the left side, two finger's-breadth to the inner side of the costal cartilages, and one-third nearer the ensiform cartilage than the umbilicus. This form of incision is rarely used at the present time. The space, in some part of which the opening should be made, is bounded on the left side by the eighth, ninth, and tenth costal cartilages—above and internally by the liver, aud below by a line drawn at the level of the tenth costal cartilages. This space is known as the " triangle of Tillaux." An oblique incision, made parallel with, and one or two finger's-breadth from, the costal margin—beginning at the sternal extremity of the seventh intercostal space, and carrying it down- wards and outwards from two to four inches,—is a form frequently used (Fig. 176, 1). Labbe contents himself with an incision in this position about an inch and a quarter, or an inch and a half in length, Howse prefers a vertical incision, nearly at the same level, passing through the outer fibres of the rectus muscle, which will, it is hoped, afterAvards act as a sphincter to the opening. The opening may also be made through the left linea semilunaris, or beyond this, passing through the three flat muscles of the abdomen. The instruments required are — Scalpel, dissecting forceps, probe-pointed bistoury, directors, plenty of Wells's forceps, broad copper retractors, blunt hooks, needles and silk, sponges, scissors, chloroform, a silver tube, etc. By some one of the foregoing incisions the abdominal wall is cut through, and when all the bleeding vessels are secured, the peritoneal cavity is opened and the stomach grasped and drawn out into the opening by ring - forceps, or a stitch. Care must be taken not to mistake the transverse colon for the stomach; but the colon is distin- guished by (a) its sacculi, (5) its longitudinal bands of muscular fibres, and (c) by the appendices epiploic;e, and {d) its thinner walls. If the colon presents it must be pushed downwards273 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. till the stomach comes iuto view. Having found the proper viscus, the second step is to sociire it to the edges of the opening. This is best done by carbolised silk sutures passed through the serous and muscular coats only; the loosely attached mucous coat can readily be shaken away by grasping the other coats between the finger and thumb. The sutures are passed through the wall of the stomach, then through the divided peritoneum, and, lastly, through the skin and fat; the muscular tissue of the abdominal wall is not included. Some prefer to use a double circle of closely set silk sutures, the outer row passing through the whole thickness of the abdominal wall, in order to secure a wide peritoneal attach- ment, and then tie the sutures over pieces of india-rubber tubing, or a lead button; the inner circle simply passes through the serous coat of the stomach and the cut edge of the skin wound. All the sutures are passed before any are tied; they are about one-sixth of an inch apart, and should enclose a circular area of the stomach wall about the size of a shilling. Thus secured, the wound is dressed antiseptically in the usual manner, and the patient fed per rectum for a period of from three to five days; by this time the stomach will have adhered to the Avound. The third step of the operation is to make a sraall opening in the stomach, which is done by passing a narrow sharp-pointed bistoury throi:gh the middle of the adherent area; the opening should only be large enough to admit a iSTo. 10 catheter. Into this ojaening an india-rubber, or silver, tracheotomy tube can be fitted. The sutures should not be removed for ten days. The great risk of this operation is peritonitis; but by the proper use of antiseptics and the adoption of the method of doing the operation in two stages—introduced, we believe, by Mr Howse—the risk is reduced to a minimum. Instead of using sutures, in connecting the wall ol the stomach with the abdominal wall, Mr Howse uses a pair of loose torsion forceps, the blades being shielded with rubber, to grasp the outer coats of the stomach, and then lays the forceps on the surface of the abdomen, beneath antiseptic dressing. In this way the stomach is retained in position till adhesions have formed. The Structures divided will necessarily vary with the incision used. In tliis situation, speaking generally, the abdominal Avail is composed of the foUoAving structures: — (1) Skin and fascia;Applied Anatomy: (2) the external oblique, (3) the internal oblique, and (4) trans- versalis muscles; (5) the fascia transversalis; (6) extra-peritoneal fat; (7) the peritoneum; then comes (8) the stomach wall itself. More internally, we simply find the rectus in its sheath, fascia transversalis, extra-peritoneal fat, and peritoneum. Difficulty in swallowing {dysphagia) may arise from other causes than stricture, viz.—(1) Tumours in the pharynx, such as polypi or abscess; (2) oedema about the back of the eijiglottis; (3) tumours in the neck outside the oesophagus; (4) aneurism of the innominate artery; (5) aneurism of the arota; (6) dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle backwards; (7) impaction of a foreign body in the gullet; (8) intra-thoracic tumours, such as enlarged bronchial glands, cancerous masses, etc. These tumours must be carefully distinguished from aneurisms. In aneurism there is dullness on percussion, dyspnoea, dysphagia, a fixed gnawing pain between the shoulders, shooting pains down the arms or side of head, and distension of the superficial veins of the chest. This operation may also be performed for stricture at the cardiac end of the stomach. RESUME of Gastrostomy :— 1. Make an incision, parallel with the costal margin, as already explained, or use the vertical one if preferred. 2. Cut through the various structui-es forming the abdo- minal wall till the peritoneum is exposed. 3. Then tie all bleeding points very carefully, and sponge the ■wound dry. 4. Open the peritoneum, introduce a carefully-cleaned finger, and hook forward the stomach; make sure that it is the stomach by feeling for the pyloric and cardiac ends. The transverse colon may present first, but its walls are much thinner; it must be pushed downwards. 5. Introduce a loop of silk into the stomach Avail, by whicli to keej) it in the wound during stitching ojieratious; this loop should go down to, but not through, the mucous membrane, and should be left to act as a guide to the subsequent operation of opening the stomach, after it has adhered to tlic anterior abdominal wall.275 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. G. Insert the outer row of longitudinal sutures by handled needles, enclosing a four-sided or six-sided area of the stomach wall, and ap^Droximating it to the abdominal wall; these are introduced at some distance—say an inch—from the edge of the wound and go through the whole thickness of the abdominal wall, but, if possible, not through the mucous coat of the stomach. If necessary, these are tied over lead buttons or india- rubber tubes; all the sutures of this row must be inserted before any are tied. These sutures may first be passed through the abdominal wall, then into the stomach wall, and again passed through the abdominal wall; or sutures may be taken, eighteen inches long, with a needle at each end — the suture then being first passed through the stomach wall, and afterwards each end through the abdominal Avail, from within outwards. 7. Insert the inner row of radiating sutures attaching the peritoneal surface of the stomach and the divided edge of the parietal peritoneum to the cut edge of the skin wound; these are fastened as they are inserted, and enclose an area of the stomach wall about the size of a shilling. 8. Dust the wound with powdered boracic acid, and dress, y. Open the stomach by a very .'<mull incLsion in the course of a few hours, or leave it for four or five days, according to the state of the patient, and remove the silk loop (if it has not been already done), inserted in the first instance to hold the viscus forward. If left till now, it will form a good guide by which to open into the stomach. PYLORUS. i. Simple or Fibrous Stricture.—This is usually a result of the chronic gastric ulcer. 'J'lic ulcer is, as a rule, situated in or near tlic pylorus or posterior wall, close to the lesser curvature. Wheu the ulcer heals, the cicatricial contraction may cause stricture in two ways—(1) r.y directly implicating the pylorus, or (2) fromApplied Anatomy: 27G the results of traction as the ulcer heals. In ulcer, the pain is localised, worse on pressure and on taking food, and persists till the stomach is emptied by vomiting. Operative Treatment (Loreta's operation).—An incision, three or four inches in length, is made in the median line, between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus, as the stomach is usually displaced downwards and to the right. After all the bleeding is stopped, the peritoneum is opened, and the stomach exposed. After this it is to be gently held forwards into the wound by means of forceps, the blades of which are protected by india-rubber. An opening is next to be made into the stomach, midway between the two curvatures, and about two inches or so from the pylorus— if the pylorus is the opening to be dilated. Should the cardiac orifice require to be dilated, the incision must be made nearer that end. Care must be taken not to allow blood, etc., to pass into the peritoneal cavity, by introducing sponges between the stomach and the abdominal wall. In order to avoid bleeding, the incision in the stomach wall should be vertical, as the vessels pass round the stomach transversely, not too near the pyloras, and large enough only to admit the index finger, with which it is at once plugged (Treves). A couple of fingers are next to be slowly introduced into the stomach and then through the pylorus, first the one and then the other. The opening in the stomach must then be closed by stitching, first the mucous and muscular coats, and after that the peritoneal coat, by means of Lembert's suture. The patient must be fed for a week or ten days by means of nutrient enemata, and kept under the influence of morphine; he may be allowed to suck ice to relieve thirst. After this he may take milk and soda water by the mouth. LoreTxV has successfully dilated both orifices of the stomach at one sitting. In bad cases the operations recommended for malignant stricture might also be tried (see next page). 2. IVIalignant Stricture.—This form is also most frequent at the pyloric end of the stomach, or at the pylorus itself. The form of cancer met Avith most frequently is "scirrhus;" but other forms are found, as columnar-celled epithelioma {cylindroma), and colloid cancer. It is to be diagnosed by the presence of a tumour, the gradual emaciation, pain, and vomiting, and by the signs of a dilated stomach—viz., distended abdomen, percussion showing277 Sicrgical, Medical, and Operative, the enlarged stomach, with succussion splashing, and the peculiar vomit—the contents being expelled in lanje quantity every two or three days, -with a barmy or frothy appearance, and yellowish matter floating on the top (= sarcina3 ventriculi). The cancerous mass is very apt to form adhesions to neighbouring organs— as the colon, liver, vena portse, and vena cava. The operative procedures adopted for this condition are three in number— (1) Pylorectomy (excision of the pylorus), (2) Gastro-Enterostomy, and (3) Jejunostomy, or Duodenostomy. (1) Pylorectomy (Billroth's operation).—Preliminary—All the usual precautions adopted when about to open into the peritoneum elsewhere. The patient must be carefully fed for some time before the operation, and the stomach washed out daily with some weak tepid antiseptic, such as Condy's fluid, to get rid of the torulai and sarcinffi ventriculi; it should be also well washed out about two hours before the operation. The patient is then chloroformed and some one of the following incisions adopted, according to the taste of the operator—(a) Parallel with the right costal margin, and two finger's-breadth from it; (h) a vertical incision, a little to the right of the linea alba; but the usual one is (c) transverse in direction, across the middle line, four or five inches in length, over the tumour or a little above the umbilicus. The structures composing the abdominal wall are then divided as far as the peritoneum, and all bleeding points carefully secured ; after this, open the peritoneum and expose the tumour, and define its extent and adhesions. Divide the adhesions between double ligatures, or two pairs of Wells's forceps; make sure of its relations to the portal vein and inferior vena cava. After this, separate the great omentum from the greater curvature of the stomach, securing tlie rirjld gasfro-ejnjyloic vessels, and at the same time remove all enlarged glands. In tlie same way, tear through tlie attachment of the lesser omentum to the pylorus and duodenum, securing the pi/loric arterij and removing eidarged glands; the heimtic artery, the portal vein, the gastro-duodenal, and tiie superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries, must be carefully pushed aside, as well as the bile duct. The anterior and posterior walls of the stomach, beyond the disease, are then divided with scissors for two-thirds of tlicir vertical extent, leaving the lower tliird in the278 Applied Anatomy: mecantime with the pylorus still attached; tliis cut surface is then closed by Lembeut's suture, with carholised silk, so that the peritoneal surfaces of the two walls are brought into contact. Tliis is necessary, because the stomach opening is much too large to fit the duodenum, or the duodenum might be cut ohliquehj, so as to obtain a larger border to meet the cut surface of the stomach. The remaining third of the circumference of the stomach is then divided, the duodenum cut through beyond the cancerous tumour, and Lembert's sutures introduced, so as to bring the duodenum and stomach into apposition—first at the posterior and then at the anterior surfaces. On the posterior aspect, the edges of the mucous membrane, which are apt to fall away or retract, may be attached to each other by special sutures. The parts are then replaced, the peritoneal cavity carefidly cleaned out, making sure that all bleeding points are secured, and the opening in the abdominal wall closed. For the first few days the patient must be fed per rectum, gradually leading up to fluid and then solid food by the mouth. (2) Gastro-Enterostomy.^—This operation may be performed in cases of cancer of the pylorus too bad for excision, or the cancerous mass may be excised, the ends of the stomach and the duodenum completely stitclied up, and then a food passage made by means of gastro-enterostomy. It consists, as I have alreadj^ said, in the establishment of a communication between tlie third part of the duodenum, or the ujiper part of the jejunum, and the stomach. (3) Jejunostomy.—An operation performed in cases of pyloric cancer, where the adhesions are too extensive to admit of removal, in order to prevent the patient dying of starvation. The incision is the same as in pylorectomy. The jejunum is then attached to the edges of the abdominal incision by a double row of sutures, and the rest of the incision closed; in three or four days an opening is made into the bowel, through which the patient ^ is fed. The operation, therefore, closely resembles the operation | of gastrostomy. A similar operation may al«o be performed on the duodenum, and is called Duodenostomy. Tlie objection is that the duodenuin \h too deeply placed and too firmly fixed to the posterior abdomina"Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 279 wall to readily admit of its being brought forwards and stitched to the anterior wall, without undue strain on the various structures. An Abscess beneath the Diaphragm may simulate pneumo- thorax, especially on the right side. Such abscesses often become partly hlled with air, and so may raise the diaphragm and com- press the lung, the pleura remaining normal; the liver may also be pushed down. The abscess may result from perforation of the stomach, or perforation of the appendix or other parts of the intestine. The diagnosis between such a subphrenic abscess and a pyo-pneumothorax is difficult: in the subphrenic form, there will be (1) probably some previous signs of abdominal disease; (2) an absence of cough and expectoration, at least during the early days of the condition; (3) the heart is not displaced, nor do the intercostal spaces bulge; (4) the respiratory murmur below the clavicle is normal over the retracted lung, and there is an abrupt transition to an amphoric hum lower doAvn; (5) the displaced liver, its usual position being occupied by a tympanitic percussion note ; and (6) metallic tinkling on combined ausculta- tion and percussion, and also on succussion, together with the absence of vocal fremitus. THE PANCREAS. The Pancreas.—This is an elongated gland that passes in a slightly oblique manner across the posterior wall of the abdomen at the level of the first lumbar vertebra, or about three inches above the umbilicus. It consists of a head, body, and tail,— the head is chiefly in the right lumbar region, the body in the epigastric, and the tail in the left hypochondrium. Its length varies from six to eight inches, and its weight from two to three and a half ounces. Relations.—The head is grasped by the horse-shoe-like curve formed by the duodenum; the tail is in contact with the lower part of the concave surface of the spleen. In front, we find the stomach, the lesser bag of the peritoneum, and the ascending layer of tlu! transverse meso-colon. The posterior surface lies upon, from right to left, the bile duct, the infericn' vena cava, the vena portie, right crus of the diaphragm, the aorta, the root of the superior mesenteric artery, loft cnis of the diaphragm, left kidney, and left280 Applied Anatomy: supra-renal capsule; the feeders of the portal vein are also behind it—the splenic vein running along behind the gland, while the inferior and superior mesenteries pass under its lower border to join the splenic. The upper border is in relation with the coeliac axis and the splenic arterJ^ At its lower border Ave find the transverse part of the duodenum. Tlie duct of the pancreas is called the canal of Wirsung; close to the duodenum it comes in contact with the common bile duct, when both bend downwards, and together pierce the lower and back part of the second portion of the duodenum, and open into the gut by a common orifice. They pierce the gut wall very obliquely, and this renders a valve in the interior of the gut unnecessary; in this respect it resembles the openings of the ureters into the bladder. For this reason the secretions can readily pass in, but all regurgitation from the gut is rendered impossible; this contrivance is evidently more effectual and surer than any valve could be, for a valve might become incompetent, but this never does. Diseases of the Pancreas.—Cancer usually affects the duodenal end or head, and as it increases presses upon the neighbouring structures, but does not, as a rule, give rise to secondary deposits in other organs. The common bile duct is apt to be speedily involved, giving rise to very deep and persistent jaundice, and these facts help to distinguish it from other forms of jaundice. Thus, in cirrhosis of the liver, the jaundice is not usually deep: in gall stones it is usually intermittent: while in catarrh of the ducts it is transitory. Further, the liver is not greatly enlarged, as in cases of cancer; nor is it atrophied, as in cases of cirrhosis. In cancer of the pancreas the liver, in the early stage, is slightly swollen and tender, but later it begins to shrink, and may even be smaller than natural. The gall bladder is always dilated, and this, together with the continued jaundice, show that both the cystic and the hepatic ducts are free, and that it is the common duct that is at fault. When this is the case, the obstruction is most likely due either to cancer of pancreas or impacted gall stones. As the growth proceeds there is pain or "back-ache," probably a tumour can be felt in tlie epigastrium, and there is marked and rapid anajmia and emaciation, on account of the great importance of the pancreatic digestion, which can no longer beSurgical, Medical, atid Operative. 281 carried on. For this reason, loo, we frequently find undigested fat in the stools, often visible to the naked eye, or ether may be used to dissolve it out, and when the ether evaporates we can produce a translucent greasy stain on blotting paper. Fatty vomit has also been observed, and very frequently sugar appears in the urine; this latter symptom is very frequent in other pan- creatic diseases, e.g., pancreatic calculus. Cancer usually runs its course within six months from the first appearance of the symptoms. Cancer of the pancreas may simulate cancer of the pylorus, as it presses upon that end of the stomach, and gives rise to dilatation of that organ; but in cancer of the intestine the liver is very apt to be the seat of secondary dejDosits, which cause considerable enlargement and burapiness on its surface; probably also the glands at the transverse fissure would be enlarged and compress the common hepatic duct, so that the gall bladder would not be enlarged. In cancer of the pancreas the liver is not usually affected, is never bossy on the surface, and before death is often smaller than natural. Tixe cancer may also involve, by direct continuity, the walls of the colon, duodenum, or stomach. One would also expect portal congestion, or even thrombosis, Avith gradual or sudden onset of ascites, enlargement of the spleen, and blood in the stools, from damming back of the blood in the feeders of the portal vein. The vena cava may also be pressed upon, giving rise to dropsy of the feet and ankles. The most characteristic signs of the disease are—(1) The deep, persistent jaundice, accomjjanied with distension of the gall bladder, wUhout syviptoim of gall stones; (2) the absence of any enlargement of the liver; (3) the presence of sugar in the urine; (4) the marked and rapid anasmia and emaciation, and the rapid course of the disease, death usually occurring within five or six months from the onset of the "back-ache;" and (5) the presence of a tumour, together with the age of the patient. Cysts of the Pancreas are occasionally found; the swelling is situated in the epigastric region, displaces the stomach upwards, the transverse colon downwards, and presents just above, and to the right side of, the umbilicus. It is covered in front by the great omentum. Some curious .symptoms are observed in cases of cysts of the pancreas, probably from pressure on the solar plexus—Applied Aiiatouiy. 282 (1) There is usually a pin-liole pupil; (2) there uiay be patches of brownish pigment on the forehead and face; and (3) the patient is always asleep. The Treatment is to cut down and expose the cyst wall, and stitch it to the abdominal wound; after this it is opened and drained. The fluid usually only consists of water, but sometimes it contains the elements of the pancreatic secretion, when it is apt to digest the skin and cause intractable eczema. The fistula usually closes spontaneously. Some observers have thought that atrophy of the pancreas is the cause of some forms of Diabetes. Lancereaux describes it as the "lean form;" its progress is very rapid. The pancreas must be very carefully avoided in excision of the pylorus, so as to avoid the necessity for ligature of any part of that gland, and, further, to lessen the risk of the cicatrix of the stomach being dissolved by the escape of pancreatic juice. THE INTESTINES. The Small Intestine begins, in the epigastric region, at the pylorus, and ends in the right iliac fossa by joining the large intestine. It is about twenty feet in length, and as Ave pass from the pylorus downwards, not only does its calibre diminish slightly, but also the thickness of its walls. It is divided into three parts —(1) The duodenum, which equals in length the breadth of twelve fingers, and extends from the pylorus to the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, or at the point where the small gut is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery. Of the remamder, the upper two-fifths is called (2) the jejunum, and the lower three- fifths (3) the ileum. The coils of the jejunum and the ileum are connected to the posterior abdominal wall by tlie mesenterij, which extends in an oblique line from the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra into the right iliac fossa. It is a double fold of peritoneum, and between its two layers we find the superior mesenteric vessels, the corresponding plexus of nerves from the sympathetic, and a large number of lymphatic glaiuls, and lacteals from the gut. The coils lie in the umbilical, hypogastric, and slightly in the right and left iliac regions, and a few coils of the ileum may pass downwards into the pelvis, into the recto-vesical pouch in the male, and the pouch of Douglas in the female.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 283 The Duodenum.—Tliis part is -wider, more fixed, and its walls are thicker than any other part of the small intestine. It is found in the epigastric, the right hypochondriac, tlie right lumbar, and the umbilical regions. Except its first part, the whole of the tube is deeply jDlaced. 1. Its ascending part begins at the pylorus, in the epigastric region, then passes to the right, ending in the riglit hypochon- drium, at the neck of the gall bladder. It is completely enveloped by peritoneum, like the pyloric end of the stomach, and is freely movable, in order not to interfere with the movements of the stomach. Relations. — Above and in front, the liver and gall bladder; heliind, the portal vein, the gastro-duodenal artery, and the common bile duct. 2. The descending part descends vertically into the riglit lumbar region, as far as the level of the fhinl himhar verfebra: this part is fixed by cellular tissue, the peritoneum only touching its anterior surface slightly. This fixation is all the more necessary since the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct pierce its posterior surface, a little below its middle. Relations.—• In front, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the ascending colon. Behind, the right kidney, only a little areolar tissue intervening. T(i tlie left, the head of the pancreas. •J. The transverse part extends from the termination of the descending part, passes across the spine, through the umbilical region, to the left side of the second lumbar vertebra; this part is firmly fixed by the musculas susxjensorius dtiodeni—a band of non-striated muscular fibres, mixed with fibrous tissue, taking its origin from the left crus of the diaphragm and tissue about the ca;liac axis. This portion is partly covered by the peritoneum —the transverse meso-colon. Relations.—Beliind, the vena cava, the left renal vein, the aorta, and the two crura of the diaphragm. It is crossed near its termination by the superior mesenteric vessels, and above is tlie lower Ijorder of the pancreas. 4. A second ascending part is sometimes described; tliis part is about one incli long, witli the Jront and sides covered by the peritoneum. It extends to a jioint wluire tlie small intestine receives a cdrnptele investment of peritoneum and a tlistiuct mesentery. Ai the point where the duodenum and jcjumim meet284 Applied A natomy: is a small fold or poucli, triangular in shape, witli its broad, crescentic edge upwards, the peritoneum at this point being free from fat and blood-vessels; it is said to exist in about fifty per cent, of the bodies examined, and is the seat occasionally of retro --peritoneal or mesenteric liernia. It is known as the fossa duodeno-jejun alis. Another possible point, where an Internal Hernia may occur, is through the mesenteric hole—a perforation sometimes found at the lower end of the mesentery, between the iho-colic and the last branch of the rami intestini tenuis. At this point there is an area free from fat, glands, and blood-vessels, which is very thm, and sometimes perforated. When such hernia become strangulated, the symptoms are those of acute intestinal obstruction. Mesenteric Hernia (Sir Astley Cooper) is a condition where, from the presence of a hole in one of the layers of the mesentery, the small gut passes between or behind the layers of that structure. In the " l\1eso-Colic Hernia" of the same authority, the gut passes between or behind the layers of the transverse meso-colon. An internal hernia may also occur into the foramen of Winslow. Thus there are five forms of Internal Hernia—(1) Into the fossa duodeno-jejunalis, (2) entirely through the mesentery, (3) between the two layers of the mesentery, (4) between the two layers of the meso-colon, and (5) through the foramen of Winslow. There are yet a few other important Clinical facts about the Duodenum that ought to be kept in mind—(1) The first, already mentioned, is the relation of its termination to the posterior surface of the stomach for the operation of Gastro-Enterostomy. (2) The close relation of its descending part to the right kidney: so close is this relation, that duodenal or pancreatic disease may closely simulate disease of the right kidney, and vice versa. (3) As it lies between the ascending colon and the right kidney, and may extend lower down than the kidney, it may be opened by mistake in the operation of right lumbar colotomy. (4) In cases of injury, the small gut is more often ruptured than the stomacli: the parts usually torn are the third part of the duodenum and the jejunum. The duodenum is torn because it is fixed, and, therefore, cannot slip away; and the jejunum, because it is fixed to the duodenum.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 285 This part of the duodenum is about one inch above the umbili- cus, and, from its relation to the peritoneum, it may be ruptured cither info or behind that membrane. In cases of rupture be- hind the peritoneum, there may be emphysema of the abdominal wall. (5) Ulceration of Brunner's glands, in cases of burns. The nicer may perforate a vessel and cansc death from internal luBmorrhage; the special signs of perforation are sudden collapse, Avith abdominal pain, pallor, and tossing of the extremities. It may also go directly into the peritoneum and set up speedily fatal acute peritonitis; or it may give rise to abscess between the liver and the diaphragm. This ulcer is found in twelve per cent, of fatal cases of burns. (6) Catarrhal inflammation of the duodenum readily spreads back along the bile duct, and causes catarrhal jaundice. (7) The duodenum may be pressed on and obstructed in cancer of the liver, cancer of the head of the pancreas, or malignant disease of the lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood. Primary cancer is very rare; when it does occur it is usually colloid. (8) When the Small Intestine is distended it assumes a peculiar spiral or cork-screw-like arrangement, closely resembling the " worm " of a still. In obstruction, towards its lower end, the swelling is most marked in the umbilical and the hypogastric regions, and less so in the epigastric, the flanks and iliac fosstc remaining flat; the abdomen is equally resonant all over, and in those rare cases where the intestinal coils can be seen moving through the abdominal wall, from the anatomical arrange- ment of the gut, they appear moving more or less in transverse lines. In typical cases, the abdomen presents the appearance of a six-months' pregnancy, but a very much distended sigmoid flexure may produce the same appearance. The Large Intestine.—The Cgecum is the blind commencement of the large intestine, and lies in the right iliac fossa; it is usually covered anteriorly and at the sides by peritoneum. In the foetus it has a well-marked mesentery, and this condition is occasionally found in the adult. The ileum joins it on its inner aspect, about two and a half inches above its blind end, and at this point the ascending colon begins. The Ascending Colon passes straight up- wards through the right lumbar region. It is covered anteriorly and laterally with peritoneum, and its bare part rests on the fasciaApplied Anatomy: 28G covering the quadratus lumborum muscle, the right kidney, and the second part of the duodenum. The Transverse Colon begins in the right hypochondrium, passes dowanvards into the upper part of the umbilical region, and then ascends into the left hypochond- rium; the central part is almost transverse, and crosses the abdomen, so that its lower edge (the convexity of the arch) is a little above the level of the umbilicus (see Fig. 175). Sometimes it is found as low as the umbilicus, or even lower. It is comi^letely covered by peritoneum, and has a wide meso-colon. On the right side it is continuous with the hepatic, and on the left with the splenic flexure. The splenic flexure is a little higher than the hepatic, and is fixed to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs by a fold of peritoneum — tlie pjltrenico-colic or costo-colic ligament. The Descending Colon lies in the left lumbar region and is attached by loose areolar tissue to the outer border of the left kidney, and then to the fascia covering the quadratus lum- borum—at first lying to the outer edge of that muscle, but as it passes downwards it inclines inwards, and lies more to the front of the muscle. It is only covered at the front and at the sides by peritoneum. The Sigmoid Flexure lies in the left iliac fossa, and is continuous above with the descending colon, and at the left sacro-iliac articulation becomes continuous witli the rectum. Special Clinical Points.—(1) The Vermiform Appendix.— This structure is about four inches in length, situated at the mnor, lower, and back part of the csecum, and usually points towards tlie spleen; its diameter is rather greater than that of a goose quill. It is said that foreign bodies such as cherry-stones, fish-bones, etc., are apt to lodge here and set up infiammation; it may also inflame from constitutional causes, as struma. The inflammation thus caused may go on to stipimration, causing perityphlitic abscess; it may also set up septic peritonitis, or the aj^pendix may become adherent to the neighbouring peritoneum, forming a band or arch beneath which a loop of gut may be strangulated, or over whidi it may kink. (2) The Ileo-Csecal Valve normally 2)revents regur- gitation of the contents of the large gut into the small, but allows the contents of the small to pass into the large. In typhoid fever there is gurgling on pressure in the right iliac fossa, probably from incompetence of this valve. I merely mention this fact in order287 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. to caution the student not to attempt to get this gurgling by pressure, lest, by so doing, the pressure cause an ulcerated patch to burst into the peritoneum. (3) At the point where the colon (right or left) is opened in colotomy, the quadratus lumboruni is just behind it, so that this muscle must be divided or pushed to the inner side, in order to reach the gut. Further, the outer edge of the erector spin;e usually corresponds with the part of the colon uncovered by peritoneum. On this bare part is the posterior longitudinal band, which is more easily seen if the gut is looked at obliquely, so as to let the light glint off it. (4) Tlie Sigmoid Flexure forms a loop like a cajiital C, the narrow open part of the C corresponding to the root of the mesentery; and when this is narrow the gut is very apt, when loaded with fasces in chronic constipation, to twist, the upper part of the loop toppling down over the lo^\•er half, giving rise to the condition of Volvulus— a condition which, when once produced, will never right itself Avitliout an operation. (5) Cases of Intussusception occur most frequently in the ileo-ceecal region, at the point where the ileum joins the large gut, probably due to the difference in calibre of the two tubes, aided by the fixity of the Cii'cum and the mobile lower end of the ileum, and probably also by the sphincter-like action of the ileo-cajcal valve. Remember it is usually the ileum and c;ecum that pass into the colon, preceded by the ileo-ca'cal valve, wliich in the usual variety always forms the apex of the intussusception, even though it should protinde at the anus. (6) Malignant Disease of the large intestine (columnar-ceUed f^yithel/oma or cijliiidrovia) is usually found in the rectum, or at the point where it joins the sigmoid flexure, and then after that at the various Jh.atrc-'-: (7) Foreign Bodies, as pins, fi.sh-bones, etc., if they pass the stomach, may stick at the ilco-ctecal valve, or appendix, but most frequently are caught in the rectum, and may there give rise to ischio-rectal abscess. (8) Large masses of foreign materials in the rectum naturally lead to attempts at expulsion, but if the mass be fixed, as in cases of cancer, an intussusception, the attenqits, of course, fail, though tliey are frequently repeated, causing tlic very painful condition known as /enesiiius. (9) In cases of obstruc- tion of the large gut any wliere, the ctecum seems to be always more severely distended than any other part of the gut. (10) In cases ofApplied Anatomy. 288 chronic constipation the ciBcum is very ai^t to ulcerate and be per- forated, causing fetal peritonitis. (11) An abscess of the liver may open into the hepatic flexure or transverse colon. (12) In cases of gall stone, the gall bladder may become adherent to the transverse colon, and the gall stones ulcerate through into the gut and be discharged per anum. (13) In cases of obstruction, say about the sigmoid flexure, the distension is most marked in the lateral regions of the abdomen, especially in the region of the caecum (right iliac fossa). The same appearances are produced in cases where the gut is loaded in bad cases of chronic constipation, so that it may be possible to trace the gut, both by sight and palpation, right round to the ciecum. In cases of obstruction, however, as from cancer, fibrous strictiire, etc., the walls of the gut become hyper- trophied, there is a good deal of rumbling, and the peristaltic action may be visible through the abdominal wall. But in cases where the gut is loaded with fasces, from chronic constipation, its walls are in a state of atony, there is no rumbling, nor can peristalsis be observed through the abdominal wall. When the condition lasts any length of time the small gut will show signs of obstruction, too, so that the whole abdomen, both in the lateral and anterior regions, will become tensely distended. Perityphilic Abscess may arise—(1) Outside the peritoneum, and (2) inside the peritoneum. 1. The Extra-Peritoneal form arises from disease of the Cfficum or root of appendix, as catarrhal inflammation, ulcerations of various kinds, as from tubercle, dysentery, chronic constipation, or malignant disease. The pus in this form lies in the cellular tissue between the gut and the iliac fascia; it tends to pass upwards to the kidney, inwards to the pelvis, and downwards to Poupart's ligament, but cannot reach the thigh because of the union between the fascia and the ligament. It points usually towards the outer end of Poupart'.s ligament, near the anterior superior spine; it may also open into the crecum. Abscesses beneath the iliac fascia, as from disease of the bone, readily pass into the thigh. 2. The Intra-Peritoneal form usually arises from ulceration and perforation of the appendix, from foreign bodies, tubercular disease, etc. It differs from the last as it usually occurs in young adult males, while the extra-peritoneal form is more likely to occur289 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. in middle-aged females. As the appemlix is usually blocked before- hand, extravasation of f;«ces is rare, so that the inflammation may remain localised, though it occasionally gives rise to slowly spreading diffuse peritonitis. Removal of the Appendix.—In opening the abdomen for the relief of a perityphlitic abscess, it is better, at the same time, to remove the appendix as well. The general details of the opera- tion are the same as in any other case of abdominal section. The incision—Various forms may be used, but the great point is to secure free access. (1) An incision just above, and parallel with, Poupaut's ligament has been used: this form is too low down to reach the appendix easily. (2) One nearer the iliac crest, resem- bling Abernethy's modified incision for ligature of the external iliac artery. This form may be used, either when we wish to open the peritoneal cavity, or where we wish to reach an abscess and the appendix outside the peritoneal cavity, more especially the latter. The objection to this form is that one cannot wash out the peritoneal cavity properly. (3) An incision may be made in the middle line, between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis; but this form is too far away, and it is impossible to manipulate the parts easily. (4) An incision may also be made in the right linea semilunaris, beginning one or two inches above Poupaet's ligament. The chief objection to this form is that the deep epigastric artery is in the way, and will probablj'' be divided; if this is the case, then it must be secured by a double ligature before division. (5) Bull (jSTeAV York) makes an incision from the middle of Poupart's ligament, vertically upwards, or even a little outwards. Treatment of the Appendix.—There are two chief methods— (1) Simply to ligature the appendix near the caecum, and cut off the part beyond the ligature. This plan often does very well, but there is considerable risk, on account of the septic matters in the gut and stump of the appendix, that a process of septic ulceration be set up, which will open up the ligatui'ed appendix and cause septic peritonitis. (2) A much better and safer plan is, when the appendix is removed, to invaginate the cut edges of the stump, and stitch them in that position. First turn in the mucous and muscular coats, and introduce a few stitches, and after this tuck in the peritoneal coat, all the way round, like a hem, and keep290 Applied Anatojiiy : it in this position by introducing half-a-dozen or so of Lembert's sutures. Should the stump he long, it will be advisable to fasten it to some neighbouring part, lest, if left free, it may contract adhesions elsewhere, and form a loop under which the gut may be strangulated at a later date. Development of the Alimentary Canal.—The mouth is formed by an involution of parts of the face, and at first forms no part of the alimentary canal; this part, therefore, is of epiblastic formation, and is known as the stomodseum. It is usually stated that this involution joins the fore-gut about the region of the pillars of the fauces, but Mr Sutton states that the point of junction is on a level with the cricoid cartilage. From the fore-gut are developed the gullet, stomach, and part of the duodenum ; and in connection with different parts of these the rudiments of the lungs, liver, and pancreas. The fore-gut and the stomodffium ought to meet and join at the cricoid cartilage. In some cases, however, they do not do so, and then the gullet communicates with—or rather, has not separated from—the windpipe. In other cases, a thin membranous partition may only intervene, or this partition may be perforated in the centre, and form a congenital stricture of the oesophagus, at the level of the cricoid cartilage. From the mid-gut, the greater part of the small and large intestines are developed. Accordmg to Mr Sutton, the fore-gut and mid-gut should join just above the entrance of the bile duct. Here, again, the two parts may be separated by some distance, or the partition between them may be only partially absorbed, or not absorbed at all, thus forming either a comj)lete or perforated septum in the gut at this point. The jejunum and ileum project as a looj) through the as yet cleft abdominal wall, with the aUantois and vessels of the umbilical cord. The portion of the loop Avhich becomes the ileum is originally continuous with the umbilical vesicle through the omjshalo-mesenteric, or vitello- intestinal duct, through which the contents of that vesicle are absorbed as nourishment to the foetus tiU the placenta is in working order. This duct should entirely disapjjear, but sometimes it persists as a tube of greater or less length, passing between the lower part of the ileum and the umbilicus, when it is known as Meckel's diverticulum. Occasionally it remains patent, and then fcecal matter is discharged at the umbilicus; usually, however, itSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 291 forms a blind tube two or three inches in length, from one to three feet above the ilio-ca^cal valve. Clinical Relationships of Meckel's Diverticulum—(1) It may produce intestinal obstruction by forming adhesions to neighbouring parts, compressing the gut below it, or may form nooses or knots or kinks, and thus obstruct the lumen of the tube, or it may, by traction, entirely obliterate the lumen of the gut. Its free end may be club-shaped, hammer-shaped, pointed, etc. (2) It is the probable source of many of those cases of umbilical ffecal fistuhe met with in children. (3) The possibility of its presence is one reason why the umbilical cord of the newly-born child is tied three finger's-breadth from the child's belly, as already pointed out. (4) As the duct, when present, is sometimes adherent to the umbilicus, in all cases where the abdomen is opened for the relief of internal strangulation, the finger should be introduced and swept over the internal surface of the umbilicus to at once make sure of its presence or absence. From the hind-gut, only a very small part of the alimentary canal is developed—-viz., the lower end of the colon and the rectum. It should be particularly noted that the caecum and colon lie, in their early stage, to the left of the mesial plane, on a level with the umbilicus. After this the CEecum mounts up into the left hypochondrium, passes in front of the duodenal Ioojd, through the epigastric region, into the right hypochondrium, and then descends through the right lumbar region into the right iliac fossa. In some cases the descent does not take place, and it then remains in the right lumbar region, or even in tlie right hypochondrium. Jn other cases it may pass too far, descending into the pelvis. In short, the ca;cuni may be arrested finally in any part of its journey from the left side of the umbilicus to the right iliac fossa. In the child the sigmoid flexure is very long, but tlie rest of the large gut is very short. The anus is formed in a precisely similar way to the mouth— viz., by an invagination of the epiblast, which at length opens into the hind-gut; this invagination is known as the proctodseum. Malformations of the Lower End of the Large Intestine.— (1) The anus may be congenitally narrow. (2) The anus may Ije completely closed by a thin membranous septum, while the rectumApplied Anatomy: 292 is normal. In this case the distended rectum may cause it to bulge, and the dark colour of the contained meconium can be seen through the thin septum. (3) The anus may be normal, but be separated from the hind-gut by an inch or more of intervening cellular tissue, or merely by a membranous septum, due to the imperfect coalescence of the hind-gut and proctodseum. (4) The anus may be absent and also a considerable part of the rectum, the lower part being merely represented by a fibrous cord. The rectum may even end in the iliac fossa. (5) It may open into the urethra, or more rarely the bladder, of the male. (6) It may open into the vagina of the female—(a) the gut opening directly into the vagina, while the lower part and anus are wanting; or (5) in the form of a recto-vaginal fistula, while the lower part of the gut is present, the anus being closed merely by a thin septum. In order to explain the occurrence of these malformations, one has to bear in mind how the lower part of the gut is developed. Up to the seventh or eightli week of foetal life, in both sexes, the genital, urinary, and intestinal tubes open into a common cavity or cloaca, a condition which is permanent in reptiles and birds. About this time a transverse partition forms, dividing this cloacal aperture into an anal or posterior division, and an anterior division, called the uro-genital sinus. In this Avay the rectal and urinary parts become permanently separated from each other. In cases, however, where the rectum opens into the urethra in the male, or the vagina in the female, this separation has not taken place, but the original communication between the Wolffian duct in the male, and the Mlillerian duct in the female, is maintained. In other cases, where the rectal is completely shut off from the urinary j^art of the sinus, the malformations are explained by the absence of the proctodasum, or, if it be present, by the fact that it does not join the hind-gut. The kidneys are often imperfectly developed, or even absent, in cases of congenital rectal malformations. Treatment.—Where the anus is too narrow it must be dilated by tents. Where the anus is closed by a thin sej^tum, open by crucial incision, and dilate with the tip of the little finger; some stitch the four corners of the divided septum to the edge of the anus. "Wliere the rectum is closed by a thin septum, the anus being normal, pass an ear speculum up to the septum, and tlien293 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. open it by a tenotomy knife, or trocliar and cannula. All incisions must be made in the axis of the pelvis, i.e., with an indination towards the sacrum. In cases where a part of the rectum is absent it is often difficult to know what to do. If the rectum ends in the jKlris the ischial tuberosities will be much further apart than when it ends 171 the iliac fossa. If, then, we have reason to believe that the lower end of the gut is in the pelvis an effort may be made to find it from the perineum. The chief points to be attended to are—{a) The small size of the pelvis and the relations of the bladder and the internal iliac vessels; {h) the bladder must be emptied lest it be mistaken for the distended rectum; (c) a sound should be passed into the bladder, in the male, and the vagina in the female, to act as guides to the operator; [d) & crucial incision will give most room for the finger, and it should be made in the position of the anus; (c) all the deeper incisions must be made exactly in the middle line, and in the axis of the pelvis. Very often the bowel can be felt bulging when the child cries, or when the abdomen is pressed ujjon by an assistant. (/) Try, if possible, to bring the mucous membrane down to the external wound, otherwise the risk of extravasation of fteces and consequent pelvic cellulitis is very great. In cases where the gut opens into the urethra in the male, or the vagina in the female, plastic operations Avill be required. In cases where the gut cannot be found by the perineal route, or in cases where plastic operations are out of the question, we may—(1) Perform left inguinal colotomy (Littre). (2) Perform right inguinal colotomy (Huguier), as the colon, it is said, frequently bends to tlie right, when there is no rectum. One very serious objection to opening the caicum, or any part of the ascending colon, is that the faeces in this p»art of the gut are very fluid, and cause great irritation around the artificial anus, in spite of the greatest possible care. (.3) Left lumbar colotomy may bo performed (Amussat). The objections to this operation are that the colon is often loose and takes an irregular course in the child, malpositions are very common, and there may be a long meso-colon. (4) Lastly, we may perform abdominal section, search for the end of the gut, and do the best under the circumstances. Lymphatics of the Intestines.—The glands of the small gut are very numerous, and lie between the two layers of the mesentery,Applied Anatomy: 204 with tlie mesenteric vessels. The glands of the large grit are much less nnuierous. The lymphatic vessels of the small gut are called lacteals; they pass through the mesenteric glands and terminate in the thoracic duct. The glands at the lower end of the small gut are enlarged in tyjihoid fever. The lymphatics of the descending colon and rectum pass to the lumJ>ar glands. In tabes mesenterica, which consists of tuliercular inflammation of the mesenteric glands, with subsequent caseation, suppni'ation, or calcification, the func- tions of the glands are destroyed, and, therefore, the substances which the lacteals should absorb (the fatty matters) are lost to nutrition. Hence the emaciation, the enlarged and tender abdomen, the drawing up of the legs, the voracious appetite, as the child always feels hungry, and the diarrhcoa, from the fatty matters passed per rectum, as well as the tubercular inflammation of the mucous membrane of the gut.295 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. CHAPTER XXXYIL THE ABDOMEN —(Continued). COLOTOMY. The Posterior Abdominal Wall (Fig. 178).—The posterior abdominal wall (between the last rib and the iliac crest) is formed Fig. 178. Abdominal Walls. (From Cunningham's "Abdomen.'') Fascia Tiaus- versalis. Extei-nal Oblique. Internal Oblique. Traiisversalis. Psoas Quadratns Lumborum. . Erector Spiiiic. TIic dotted line veprescnts tlic I'ciitoueuiii. Jii front llic mode of formation of the upper part of the Sheath of the Rectus is sliowii. by two large muscles and the fascia lumborum, or the posterior abdominal aponeurosis. The fascia lumborum is formed thus—Applied Anatomy: 296 The aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle splits into three layers, one is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumhar vertehrte, a second is attached to the tips of the transverse processes (between these two layers the quadratus lumhorum is situated), a third passes to the tips of the spinous processes of the vertebrte, and between this and the second layer, the erector spinPB is placed. These three layers are likewise known as the anterior, middle, and posterior layers of the lumbar aponeurosis; in addition, however, to these structures, tliere is attached to the posterior layer of this aponeurosis the tendons of origin of other three muscles, and through it these muscles may be said to arise from the tips of the transverse processes. The muscles are— (1) The latissimus dorsi; (2) the serratus posticus inferior; and (3) the internal oblique. By this means the strong fascia lumborum is formed, which protects the part below the ribs, a part which, in the skeleton, seems very weak. In this region we find the "triangle of Petit" (Fig. 179, 10). It is bounded in front by the posterior edge of the external oblique; heliind, by the anterior edge of the latissimus dorsi. The hase is formed by the crest of the ilium (about its middle third), while the apex is formed by the crossing of the above two muscles. In Lumbar Colotomy, or Amussat's operation, the descend- ing colon is opened in the left lumbar region. This operation was first suggested by Callisen in 1796, for rectal obstruction. Amussat opened the colon in the right loin, revived Callisen's plan, and gave the operation a wider application, in 1839. Calli- sen used the vertical incision, while Amussat used the transverse. The colon lies, according to Allingham, half-an-inch behind a point midway between the anterior and the posterior superior iliac spines. Mr Heath takes the midpoint between the two spines, while Professor Chiene uses the outer edge of the erector spinas as the guide. At the seat of the operation the gut lies in the angle between the psoas and the quadratus lumborum (see Fig. 178). The descending colon (left) is chosen because— (1) It is nearer the anus, and the gut will therefore be emptied more perfectly after the new anus is formed, and there is less risk of irritation of the cancerous mass in the rectum. (2) It is more fixed than the right colon, (3) It has a larger non-peritonealSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 297 surface. (4) A meso-colon is less frequently found on this side. (5) The contents of the gut care less fluid than on the right side. In a child, the danger of wounding the peritoneum would be much greater, because a descending meso-colon is often present. The patient is placed somewhat on the right side, and the loin of the side to be operated upon made prominent by placing a pillow beneath the opposite side. The instruments required are the same as for gastrostomy, except that we will require some special apparatus for inflating the gut if it is empty, as the peritoneum is in great danger if the gut is not distended—such as Lund's apparatus—and some tube and evacuator for emptying it if it be full, and if the operation is to be done in one stage. The Surgeon stands behind the patient, and with a tape measures the direct distance between the anterior and the posterior superior iliac spines, and makes a mark at the mid-point, or half-an-inch behind it, and draws a line from this vertically upwards to the costal margin—usually near the tip of the last rib. Various forms of incision may be used; the oblique is very frequently adopted (Fig. 179, 2), and is the one Mr Bryant prefers, as there is less risk of prolapse of the bowel afterwards. It is four or five inches in length, and is made parallel with the intercostal nerves and the last rib, and midway between that bone and the iliac crest; its centre is placed opposite the ink line made in the ilio-costal space. (1) The skin and superficial fascia are divided, with fatty tissue, cutaneous vessels, and nerves. (2) The deep fascia is next divided, and then parts of (3) the latissimus dorsi, at the posterior end of the incision, and (4) the external oblique at the anterior part, are exposed and divided; these muscles, as well as those that follow, must be divided to the full extent of the superficial wound. Next (6) the internal oblique is divided in the same manner, and probably a small piece of (6) the serratus posticus inferior muscle. In the wound, part of the transversalis muscle with its undivided aponeurosis, and the posterior lamella of the fascia lumborum is exposed; further, at this stage we will find the last dorsal nerve aiid artery. They run outwards in front of the quadratus lumborum along the lower border of tlic last rib, and at the outer border of the muscle pierce the undivided aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle and pass forwards between298 Applied Anatomy: it and the internal oblique. Open (7) this aponeurosis in the same way as the sheaths of arteries are opened, and enlarge the incision upon a director; in so doing it will probably be found that the compartment containing the quadratus lumboium is opened up, as well as the undivided aponeurosis, and if the muscle it contains is in the way, its edge may be freely notched. This care is necessary in opening the aponeurosis, lest by the too free use of the knife the peritoneum should be punctured. The edges of the incision are now to be held aside with broad copper spatulte, and the fatty tissue often found teased aside, when (8) the fascia transversalis is exposed and must be carefully torn through with the fingers or a blunt director, at the posterior angle of the incision, as it lies in front of the (j^uadratus lumbonim muscle. The extra- peritoneal fat, against which the colon rests and in which the kidney is embedded, at the upi^er part of the wound, is then displaced by the finger, ■\^'hich is passed in at the woiuid to hook the colon forward. The gut may be recognised by its relation to the kidney, which can easily be felt at the upper part of the wound, the gut passing downwards off its anterior surface. In cases where there is great difficulty m finding the gut, the patient may be turned on his back, when the gut will probably fall against the finger; or the gut may be inflated with air by the plan intro- duced by Lund, or by carbonic acid gas, generated by introducing solutions of bicarbonate of sodium and tartaric acid, separately, into the rectum. The remaining steps of the operation will vary according to the nature of the case. In all cases, ■where possible, the operation should be done in two stages, just as gastrostomy— an outer row of sutures being used to fix the gut to the fascia at the bottom of the woiind, and an inner row, to attach it to the skin. If this is not possible from the nature of the case, the non-peritoneal surface of the gut is brought to the wound, and a large curved needle with a stout silk ligature is passed, at the upper and lower parts of the wound, through the skin, then across the bowel, and then through the skin at the opposite side. The threads are then to be given to two assistants, who thus hold the bowel steady and pulled well forward into the wound, Tlie gut is then opened by a longitudinal incision between the two tlircads, and the finger is next passed into the bowel and the loops drawnSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 299 out and divided, and the four ligatures thus formed tied; or the iluid faeces may first be drawn off tlirougli a large tube, as in Fig. 179. Posterior Abdominal Wall, from behind. 1. Incision for Operations on the K itlney. 2. Obli(jue Incision for C'olotoniy. 3. TransverseIncisionforColotoiuy. 4. Right Kidney. 5. The point at wliicli to tap tlie Left Kidney. 6. Tlie point at wliicli to tap tlic Kiglit Kidney. 7. Vortical Incision for Colotoniy. 8. Erector Spin;e. 9. The point at wliicli to open a I'soas Abscess posteriorly (Chiexe, 1878). 10. Triangle of Petit. 11. 12. Last two Eibs. 13. Iliac Crest. 14. Sacrum. ovariotomy, to lessen the risk of extravasation into tlic cellular tissue behind the peritoneum. The extremities of the Avound are300 ylpplied A natomy: then to be partially closed, and every means taken, by additional stitches, to prevent the escape of ftecal matters into the cellular tissue. The opening thus made in the colon is close to its junction with the splenic flexure. It is recommended that the gut be brought well out into the wound, so as to form a good large "spur," Avhich will prevent the faeces, as far as possible, from passing down into the rectum to irritate the cancerous surface. On the right side, the steps of the operation are exactly alike. To avoid the inconvenience experienced by the accumula- tion of fajcal matters between the opening in the colon and the seat of the obstruction, Madelung cuts the bowel entirely across and stitches the upper end of the divided gut to the edges of the abdominal wound. He then empties the lower segment, washes it out, invaginates, and stitches up its divided end, and drops it into the wound and closes the skin incision over it. This lessens the irritation of the cancerous surface by the presence of fiecal matters, and probably also will lessen the tendency to prolapse of the mucous membrane of the gut. He originally proposed this method for cancer of the rectum and sigmoid flexure. In the transverse form, the incision (Fig. 179, 3) is made two finger's-breadth above and parallel with the middle third of the crest of the left ilium, making the middle of the incision over the colon. By this incision the structures divided are practically the same as those cut in the oblique form, and the gut is reached through the triangle of Petit. The vertical Incision (Fig. 179, 7) is the one used by Pro- fessor Chiene, and is made along the outer edge of the erector spina'., between the last rib and the iliac crest, and in this case the structures divided are —(1) The integumentary coverings; (2) the posterior layer of tlie fascia lumborum—and in doing so the compartment containing the erector spina3 is opened into, and this muscle is then drawn inwards; (3) the middle layer is next divided, and with its division the compartment containing the quadratus lumborum is opened, and this muscle in turn is drawn well inwards; (4) the anterior layer of the fascia lumborum; (5) the fascia transversalis; and (G) the loose areolar tissue and fat in which the gut is embedded. The gut may be recognised at the bottom of the wound by its greenish and distended appearance.301 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. By using tins incision we have well-marked anatomical guides, both in the superficial and deep parts of the wound—the edge of the erector spin* in the one, and the edge of the quadratus lumborum in the other. It is the centre of this latter muscle that we first reach; but by working a little forwards, its edge is reached and can readily be drawn inwards, or if it is specially well developed, it may be partially divided. The objections to lumbar colotomy are—(1) The space is small; (2) it is often difficidt to identify the bowel, and this has led, in some cases, to opening the duodenum (on ■ the right side), other parts of the small intestine, and even the stomach; (3) the wound is often deep, so that it is impossible to stitch the bowel to the skin without undue tension; (4) occasional, or even frequent abnor- malities of the colon, and failure to find it at all; and (5) the patient is unable to attend to the artificial anus himself. In performing the operation of colotomy, it is necessary to avoid—(1) Wounding the peritoneum; (2) allowing the contents of the gut to become effused into the areolar tissue of the wound; and for this purpose, in cases where the gut must be opened at once, a wide india-rubber tube should be introduced into the opening, to allow the contents to escape gradually through it. After this, the sides of the opening in the gut are stitched to the sides of the incision, as already described under the first form of incision. The operation may be rendered necessary on account of—(1) Malignant stricture of the rectum with tenesmus, such as from cancer; (2) other strictures, such as from pressure of a pelvic tumour; (3) imperforate anus or other congenital defects; (4) volvulus of the sigmoid flexure, as the incision in laparotomy is too small to allow of the large coil being dealt with properly; (5) in all forms of vesico-intestinal fistula; (6) sometimes in cases of very painful non-malignant stricture of the rectum, to rest the part for a time and allow it to heal; and (7) in cases of cancer of the neck of the uterus opening into the rectum. By performing this operation in the same way on the opposite side, the caput ctecum, or ascending colon, may be reached. As already stated, however, an artificial anus should not, if possible, be made in this situation, on account of the fluid nature of the faeces at this part of the gut.Applied Anatomy: 302 r r BESUME of left lumbar colotomy (oblique incision):— 1. Place the patient on the right side, with a pillow beneatli the flank, to increase the space between the last rib and the iliac crest. 2. Measure straight from the anterior to the posterior s\iperior iliac spine, and draw a vertical line up to the costal margin a little behind the mid point of this measurement: or the outer edge of the erector spinae may be taken as the guide to the position of the gut. 3. Make an oblif^ue incision, of which this line, or edge of the muscle, is the centre, through skin and deep fascia. 4. Then divide the external oblique at the anterior part, and the latissinius dorsi at the posterior part of the incision, and after this, the external oblique. This now exposes— 5. The posterior surface of the fascia lumborum, which is then opened like the sheath of an artery, and divided by a probe-pointed bistoluy to the full extent of the external incision. In so doing, the last dorsal nerve and artery are divided—secure the artery at once. 6. Divide the middle layer of the tendon of origin of the transversalis muscle, exposing the quadratus lumborum which should be turned aside or notched if in the way. After that open the anterior lamella of the tendon of origin of the transversalis muscle. 7. Hold the edges of the wound apart by two copper spatulse, tease through some fatty tissue often met with at this stage, thus exposing— 8. The fascia transversalis, which should be opened at the posterior part of the wound, the extra-peritoneal fat teased through, when the gut should now be reached. 9. The gut, if distended, will usually project into the wound, if not, inject air or fluid, or take the loAver end of the kidney as the guide to its position, or turn303 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the patient ou his back while your index finger is in the wound, when the gut will usually fall against it. 10. EoU the patient back on his side again, and prepare the gut for being opened either at once, or stitch it unopened to the edges of the Avound, and open it after three or four days. XoTE.—"When the gut is distended the non-peritoneal surface is very much increased in extent (Bond) (Figs. 180, 181). Fig. 180. Fig. 181. Colon and Peritoneum. EiiPTV. Distended. Ob.serve the effect of Distension of the Ckit upon tlie amount of surface uncovered by Peritoneiun. In the vertical form of incision:— 1. Use the outer border of the erector spinae as the guide, and make a vertical incision along it. 2. Divide the integumentary coverings. .3. Expose the edge of the erector spinae. 4. Expose the outer border of the quadratus lumborum, which will be found a little more external, and pass- ing from below upwards in an oblique direction; if necessary the muscle may be notched. 5. Cut through the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia, and, if necessary, notch it transversely; clear aside a little fatty and cellular tissue usually found at this point. G. Open the fascia transversalis, and tease through the extra- peritoneal fat; the gut shoiild now be exposed. 7. After this, proceed as in the last form of incision. Littre's Operation, or Inguinal Colotomy.—In this operation the descendinri colon, or the si{/moid jle.mre, is reached in the iliac region by opening into the peritoneal cavity, and into the gutApplied Anatomy: 304 through its peritoneum-covered surface. The incision resembles that for ligature of the external iliac artery. Littr^: operated on the left side. The incision is carried from a little above the level of the anterior superior iliac spine downwards and inwards, about an inch and a half above, and nearly parallel with, Poupart's ligament, for two and a half or three inches. The incision must be external to the deej) epigastric artery, and above the level of the deep circumflex iliac, with one-third above, and the other two- thirds below, the level of the anterior superior iliac spine. The Structures divided are—(1) The skin and superficial fascia, fatty tissue and deep fascia, Avith the cutaneous nerves and the superficial external circumflex vessels; (2) the external oblique; (3) the internal oblique; (4) the transversalis muscle, with branches of the deep circumflex iliac artery; (5) the transversalis fascia and extra-peritoneal fat; and (G) the peritoneum. The operation should be done, if possible, in two stages, as gastrostomy. The large gut is distinguished from the small gut by the longitudinal muscular bands, and by the appendices epiploicae. LiTTRiii's operation in the left groin was originally proposed for cases of congenital absence, or deficiency, of the rectum; in children, however, it is well to bear in mind that the sigmoid flexure is often misplaced, especially in cases of congenital deformity, and may be on the right side, or in the pelvis. For this reason it has been advised that the operation should always be performed on the right side, as one is almost certain to find either the sigmoid flexure or the ca3cum in this region. It is also used in cases of stricture of the rectum and loicer part of the sigmoid flexure. The operation is said to be less severe, and it places the anus in a more convenient situation, so that the patient can attend to it himself; for this reason also it should be preferred in the labouring poor, who are unable to afford a special attendant to attend to and keep the parts clean, wlien it is placed behind. Statistics, up to 1884, seem to show that it is somewhat more fatal than Amussat's operation; since that period, however, the mortality has fallen considerably. Malignant and other stricture is very frequently situated in the flexures, and in the case of the sigmoid flexure, Amussat's operation must be performed.Surgica/, 3fedic<i/, a/id Operative. 305 This operation meets all the objections urged against lumbar colotomy, and also affords a means of exploring the abdomen, in obscure cases, before completing the operation. The objections urged against it are—(1) The greater tendency' to prolapse of the gut, and (2) that it is not suitable for urgent cases, as the peritoneum is opened, and, therefore, faeculent material might reach that cavity. Still, by careful stitching, and the adoption of suitable precautions, the gut may be opened at once, though, no doubt, the operation is best performed in two stages. r r RESUME of the chief steps of the operation of inguinal colotomy:— 1. Take the same precautions, with regard to antiseptics, as in other operations opening into the jjeritoneal cavity —especially with respect to the clothes, hands, and instruments. 2. ^fake the incision. In making the incision, Mr Cripps pulls the skin a little inwards, so that when it is again relaxed the opening through the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum is on a different level; this makes the opening valvular, and it is more easily closed after- wards with a pad. 3. Secure all the bleeding vessels, and then open the peritoneum to nearly the full extent of the external wound. 4. Push the small intestine aside, recognise the large gut by the usual signs, or else pass a finger into the pelvis, find the rectum, and follow it upwards, f). Pull a loop of the gut into the wound, and insert U\o provisional carbolised silk ligatures, two inches apart; they must do little more than go through the peri- toneal coat. These sutures are to steady the bowel during the stitching operations, and afterwards to serve as guides when the bowel is to be opened. G. Now return the loop of bowel, and stitch the parietal peritoneum to the skin at four or five points with fme carbolised silk. *UApplied Anatomy: 306 7. Again pull out the bowel, and fix it to the skin and parietal peritoneum by half-a-dozen sutures or so on each side. They must only go through the peritoneal and muscular coats of the bowel, but must not pene- trate the mucous membrane, otherwise it will be impossible to keep the wound aseptic, on account of the leakage along the sutures. The gut should be so stitched that two-thirds of its circumference is external to the wound. The sutures pass through the skin one-eighth of an inch from the edge of the wound, then through the parietal peritoneum, and, lastly, through the bowel. The last suture at each angle should go across from one side to the other: it is better to pass all the sutures before tying any of them. 8. Stitch vip the extremities of the skin incision as far as may be thought necessary. 9. In dressing the wound, place a piece of green protective over the exposed part of the bowel, otherwise granula- tions will shoot uato the dressing and fix it firmly to the gut. 10. Open the gut in five or six days, using the provisional sutures as the guide, the bowel being opened to the full length between them, paring off the cut margins of the bowel with scissors to the level of its attachment to the skin (Cripps). All sutures may be removed by the ninth day, or earlier. In order to obviate the tendency to prolapse of the gut, Mr Cripps, before inserting the jDrovisional ligatures, draws out as much of the loose bowel as will readily come, passing it in again at the lower angle of the wound; this gets rid of all loose folds of the sigmoid flexure above the opening. Some Surgeons bring the loop of bowel co7npletely outside the abdomen, in order to secure a good spur, and entirely prevent fasces passing by the rectum. The loop is held forwards by means of a kangaroo tendon suture, entered about an inch" from the edge of the wound, then passed through tlie mesentery in the concavity of tlie loop of gut, and brought out about an inch from the edge of the other .side of theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 307 incision; both ends of the tendon are then knotted. The occasional tendency to contraction of the new anus must be overcome by means of special dilators. LiTTR^'s operation may also be performed on the right side, in this case opening the caecum; this side is also to be preferred in cases of long standing intestinal obstruction. The fluidity of the fiiices, however, must ever be a serious objection to all right colotomies. This subject is ably discussed by Mr F. Treves, in his work on " Intestinal Obstruction." LAPAROTOMY. This may be defined as the making of an opening into the abdomen, either for the purposes of diagnosis (exploratory) or treatment, or both. It is used in cases of acute strangulation of the gut, of all kinds and from all causes, such as constricting bands, cords, diverticula, strangulation through slits and apertures, etc. It is also used in treating all kinds of internal hernia, and of reduc- tion en rnasae after external hernia, provided the condition cannot be relieved by cutting down at the seat of the hernia first; also for some cases of volvulus, and in intussusception. The incision is the same as in ovariotomy; it is used as a preliminary operation in cases where enterotomy, enterectomy, etc., is to be performed. I will not describe the operation in detail, but merely indicate the more important points; the whole operation must be conducted on the same principles, and with the same care, as ovariotomy. The patient is placed on a high tal)le, with his legs hanging over the end of it, and an incision, sufficiently large to admit the hand, is made between tlie pubes and the umbilicus through the liiiea alha; by making the incision in the linea alba no vessel of any size is divided, no inter-muscular cellular planes opened up, the wound is not deep, and its edges can be readily approximated witliout any tendency afterwards to hernial protrusion of the bowel. The instruments required are the same as in gastrostomy, and the instrument clerk should have all the instruments, especially the sponges and "VVeij^s's forceps, carefully counted and noted, so that he may call the roll before the wound is stitclied up, lest any of thorn be left in the abdominal cavity. Tlie temperature of the room must bo carefully regulated and the bladder emptied beforeApplied Anntoiny: 308 the operation, lest it be cut into. When the outer surface of the peritoneum is exposed all bleeding vessels must be secured before it is opened; it should be opened like the sheath of an artery, and the opening enlarged with a probe-pointed bistoury, guided by the forefinger of the left hand; and after it is opened, care must be taken to prevent protrusion of the intestines. If the operation be performed for obstruction, the hand should first be swept under the umbilicus, to make sure of the absence, or otherwise, of Meckel's diverticulum, and then passed on at once to the crecum; for if this be foimd distended, the obstruction is in some part of the colon; while, if empty, it is in some part of the smaU intestine. At the completion of the operation the " peritoneal toilet" must be jjerformed with the greatest care and completeness. In closing the wound the deep sutures of carbolised silk must include the peritoneum, so that the divided sides of that membrane shall be brought into close contact and unite by the first intention, and so lessen the tendency to hernia afterwards. ENTEROTOMY. Nelaton's Operation for Intestinal Obstruction—Enterotomy. —The abdomen is opened in the iliac region, preference being given to the right side, by an incision the same as that used in Littre's operation — parallel with and a little above Poitpart's ligament, and external to the deep epigastric artery. The first distended coil of bowel that presents itself is then drawn into the wound; on the right side it is almost always the lower end of the ileum that presents. The operation is comjileted in one or two stages, according to the nature of the case; if possible it should be done in two stages, in the manner ah'eady explained under " gastrostomy." Mr Treves objects to 2'>i'i')nary enterotomy on the following grounds—(a) It is only a palliative measure at the best; (h) it is not foimded upon sound surgical principles; (c) it is carried out more or less independently of diagnosis; and {d) it is done in the dark, and leaves the cause of the disorder untouched. It may often, however, be performed with adA'autage as a secondary operation—e.g., after lumbar colotomy, where the colon is exposed below the obstruction; sometimes, after an exploratory laparotomy, it may be found that nothing else can be done. In favour of theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 309 operation (prlmarij) is its low inoi'tality, easo of [)erfoniiance, and the almost absolute certainty of securing snmetldng, and of making an opening in tlie gut somewhere above the obstruction. RESECTION OF THE INTESTINE. In this operation a diseased portion, of varying size, is cut away and removed from the body. It may be performed for stricture, simple and cancerous, occlusion of the gut liy hopeless matting, and for gangrene. It is called Enterectomy, when performed on the small intestine; Colectomy, when performed on the large. Colectomy was first performed by Mr Bryant. In many cases it is the only operation which cures the disease, and, therefore, possesses this great advantage over enterotomy; and it, further, does away with the necessity for a .permanent artificial anus. As regards the amount that may be removed, it is difficult to state definitely, but a couple of yards have been removed without any apparent damage to the intestinal tract, so far as function was concerned. There are two modes of performing the operation — (1) The part of the gut is removed, and the two divided ends are reunited, thus restoring the lumen of tlie tube; the gut is then put back into the abdomen, and the external wound closed. The objections to this plan are—{a) Although the obstructing part is removed, yet the distension of the gut above, remains for some time after the (Operation, as the segment of the bowel involved in th(( operation is paralysed for a time, and prevents a free passage along the tube, {h) operation is very diflicult, long, and tedious, and tliis is Ijad for the patient, who probably before the operation was already in a low condition, and the long exposure may cause fatal {)aralysis of the gut. {r) It may be impossible to sutui-e the gangrenous bowel, oi- the suture line may slough and lead to extravasation and death. For these reasons the next method should always be preferred —(2) Instead of stitching the divided ends together, an artificial anus is formed by the ends of the divided gut being stitched to tlic skin incision, first the distal and then tlie proximal. At a later period another operation is performed for the cure of the artificial anus.Applied Anatomy: 310 In tlie first method, a median laparotomy is first performed, and the diseased segment of tlio gut is pulled out at the wound; the woimd is then plugged with clean flat sponges, to prevent the entrance of fseees into the abdomen from the segment to be excised, and also to prevent the protrusion of more bowel. The bowel must now be occluded on each side of the part to be excised by some form of clamp; the one invented and nsed by Fig. 182. Lembert's Suture—Surface View. Two Siitiu-es are passed througk tlie Gut at the wounded point. Fig. 183. Lembert's Suture—Side View. .Suture. Peri ton eal Coat, Shiscnlar Coat.. Jtncuus Coat.... Tbe Suture must uot tLrouc'h the jMucous Coat. Fig. 184. Lembert's Suture Tightened. S<itnro reritnueal Coat. Jliiscular Coat Mucous Coat Observe how the Peritoneal Surfaces are tucked in wlioii tlic Suture is tightened. Mr Treves has its compressing surfaces covered with iiulia- rubber, and it is so made that the two ends can slide along iron rods, so as to approximate the ends of the divided gut before the introduction of the sutures. The necessary amount of gut is then removed with the scissors, and a V- shaped piece of the mesentery removed, and all the bleeding vessels ligatured. Tlie two partsSiirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 311 of the clamp are next approximated and two rows of sutures introduced—the inner to bring the edges of the mucous membrane together (C/erny), and an outer iwr to inchide the muscular and serous surfaces (Lembert). Gussenbauer brings both the mucous and serous layers into contact by a single suture. The Lembert suture is to be preferred, and is quite sufficient alone (Figs. 182 to 184. When tlie mucous membrane is pierced, leakage takes place along the thread, and is apt to set up septic peritonitis, and it should not therefore penetrate the mucous coat. When the gut is divided the longitudinal muscular fibres retract and carry the serous covering with them, so that the mucous coat can be readily reached and sutured. Various plans have been tried in order to make the gut rigid during the introduction of the sutures—such as plugs of gelatine or dough, decalcified bone, a saiisage-shaped india-rubber bag that can be inflated, etc. According to Mr Treves, about fifteen sutures are required for the inner row, and ' twenty-fivo for the outer. The clamps are now removed, the gut dropped into the abdomen, and the abdominal Avound closed. In the second method, when the diseased part is removed, the clamp is removed from the distal end of the gut, and its margin stitched to the skin incision; the proximal end is then treated in the same way, taking care not to allow the contents to escape into the peritoneal cavity. After a time the cavity of the gut is rendered continuous by a second operation. This method is much better, more easily performed, and safer than the other. THE LIVER. Th is organ fills up the greater part of the right hypochondriac region, extends through the epigastric, and passes slightly into the left hypochondrium, being about an inch and a half beyond the left margin of the sternum. It measures, in its transverse diameter, from ten to twelve inches; from six to seven in its antei'o-posterior, and is about three inches vertically, at the back part of the right lobe. It weighs from fifty to sixty ounces. The lower border, at the left side, is close to the apex beat; in the epigastric region it is midway between tlie ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus; and on tlie right side, from the mammary lino, it follows pretty closely the costal margin ; in the erect312 Applied Anatomy: posture it is a little beloAv the costal luargiu, but when the patient is recumbent it ascends about an inch. In ■women and children it is normally a little below the costal margin. On the extreme right the lower border of the liver descends below the last rib to the level of the first or second lumbar spine—a fact of some importance when operating on the right kidney. Being attached to the diaphragm, the liver is depressed during inspira- tion and rises during expiration; at the end of expiration its upper border corresponds to the fourth intercostal space, or upper border of the fifth rib. Fig. 185. Stab through Base of Lung. .Chest WaU. Pleiu-al Cavity. Diaphragm. .Peritoiiouiii. To show liow a Stalj may involve the Lung and Liver, togetlier with tlie Pleural and Peritoneal Cavities. In the mammillary line, the highest part of the convexity of the right lobe of the liver extends to about the fourth intercostal space or fifth rib. If a line be drawn from this point to the apexSurgical, Medical, and Operative. Ijcat, it indicates tlie ujjper level of the liver, as well as the loAver iiiargiu of the heart {margo ucutns). A penetrating wound of the; chest wall—say about the fifth, sixth, or seventh intercostal spaces —would go through both liver and lung, and open up both the pleural and peritoneal cavities (Fig. 185). The "upper" surface of the liver is in contact with the diaphragm; the under surface is in relation with the stomach on the left side, and on the right side with the gall bladder, the duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, the right kidney, and right supra-renal capsule. The posterior border is in relation with the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the crura of the diaphragm. That jDortion of the liver that is in contact with the anterior abdominal wall gives an almost absolutely dull note on percussion, and is known as the area of absolute hepatic dullness; the upper border of this area corresponds roughly to the lower edge of the lungs (except on the left side, where it merges into the cardiac dullness), about the level of the sixth rib in front, the eighth in the mid-axillary line, and the tenth behind. Above this, a layer of lung tissue, gradually increasing in thickness, intervenes between tlie liver and the chest wall; this area is known as the area of the relative hepatic dullness. It lies about three inches above the absolute; extending up to the fourth right space or the fifth rib. The liver dullness may extend further down than normal, without great alteration in its absolute size or shape—as from (1) an abscess between the liver and the diaphragm, (2) right imeumo-thorax, (3) pleurisy with effusion on the right side, and (4) emphysema of the lungs. It is distorted as well as depressed in " tight lacing." The hepatic lilexus of the sympathetic is the largest offset of the creliac plexus, and receives filaments from the left pneuniogastric and the right phrenic nerves. Tumours connected with the Liver necessarily partake of the respiratory movements, and in this way may be distinguished from tumours of the right kidney. Further, tumours of the liver have no intestine in front, and it is impossible to insert the fiingcrs between the costal margin and the upper border of the tumour, as in tumours of the kidney; tlic dullness is continuous with the normal liver dullness, and the tumour enlargement begins above In cases of cancer, the liver will be nodulated.314 Applied Anatomy: The Enlargements of the Liver may be— (a) Uniform—As fatty liver, waxy liver, congestion, obstruc- tion of the bile duct either from catarrh or gall stones, and in the early stage of cirrhosis. (A) Irregular—In syjjhilitic aflectious usually, " gin-drinker's liver," cirrhosis, hydatid cysts, cancer, abscess, and distended gall bladder. The liver is the second most common seat for the secondary deposits in sarcoma, spread by the systemic veins: it is the most common in sarcoma, spread by the portal vein. Secondary deposits of cancer are by no means uncommon, especially of the softer varieties. Abscess of the Liver may arise from affections of the bowel, dyseutry, typhoid fever, etc., probably from minute venous or lymphatic emboli—as the portal vein, that drains the intestines, passes to the liver, and there breaks uj) into cajjiUaries. The abscess may open into the duodenum, colon, pleural cavity, or the hmgs, and the pus be coughed out—or the stomach, and be vomited up. Sometimes it makes its way into the pericardium, or bursts into the general peritoneal cavity. The usual causes of these abscesses are injuries of the head, pyaemia, and dysentery; also wounds and contusion of the liver itself, irritation of the veins about the rectum as in fistida in ano, and after operations for hsemorrhoids; and, lastly, inflammation and ulceration of the stomach, gall bladder, or bile ducts. The diagnosis between abscess and hydatid cyst may be made certain by tlie use of the hypodermic needle, or a line aspirator; there will also be a history of fever and rigors in the one case, but not in the other, and with hydatids the fluctuation is often accompanied by the peculiar " hydatid fremitus." If the abscess have adhered to the abdominal wall under the ribs, it may be tapped or opened by direct incision, cleaned out, and a drainage tube inserted; if it is not adherent, the case requires greater caution, lest the pus and discharges escape into the peritoneum. Attempts may be made to open it in two stages, as in gastrostomy. Hydatid cysts should first be tapped ; and if this does not cure, then open in two stages, and drain.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Rupture of the Liver is very serious, from the great litemorrliage and subsequent peritonitis. Extra-Hepatic Bile Channels—The bile leaves the liver by the rigid and left hepatic duds; these join to form the common hepatic i/tict, which is in turn joined by the duct from the gall bladder (the cystic diui), and the duct thus formed is calletl the common bile duct—the ductus communis clioledochus. It is about the size of a goose-quill, and about three inches long, and is placed, with the hepatic artery and portal vein, in the lesser omentum, the duct being to the right, the artery to the left, and the vein behind and between. Along witli the duct of the pancreas, it pierces the duodenal wall verij ohliqnehj, near the end, and to the inner side of the posterior aspect of its descending part. In stones, passing from the gall bladder, as long as they are confined to the cystic duct, there will be no jaundice, as the bile, from the liver, can easily pass into the gut; it is only when they enter the common bile duct that jaundice becomes marked, but even then a little may pass into the intestine, as the stones are usually facetted. The secretion pressure is extremely low, and, therefore, a very feeble obstniction is sufficient to cause its re-absorption — ohstruciive jaundice. Other causes of obstruction, leading to the re-absorption of bile, are—catarrh of the ducts, often due to duodenal catarrh (duodenal dyspepsia); parasites, as a round Avorm (ascaris lumbricoides); and tumours, as cancer of the head of the pancreas or pylorus, as the duct passes behind the first part of the duodenum and is covered by, or included in, the head of the pancreas. The first inch or so of the common duct runs in the lesser fimentum, and is here liable to be compressed from enlarged glands and other tumours; for the rest of its course it runs under cover of, and between, the duodenum and pancreas, and may be com- pre.ssed by growths springing from these organs. When the ducts are blocked between the transverse fissure and the entrance of the cystic duct, there will be persistent jaundice, witliout distension of the gall bladder. When there is persistent jaundice, with continued dilatation of the gall bladder, it points to blocking of the common duct, as from stricture, calculus, or disease of the duodenum or pancreas. It is of importance to note tliat theApplied AiiatoDiy: gall-stone colic may closely simulate obstruction of tlie bowel. Vomiting ami constipation may be well marked, and there may be a total absence of jaundice. Slighter cases of pain, due to the passage of gall stones, are probably often merely called " spasm of the stomach " (Hutchinson). Dr Symington describes the liver as a right-angled triangular prism with the right angles rounded off; he speaks of live surfaces —anterior, posterior, superior, and right and left inferior: the left inferior corresponds to the so-called inferior surface. He further regards it as a soft, plastic, sponge-like mass, easily changed in shape from pressure of neighbouring orgaiis, especially by the stomach; when this organ was distended he found that the trans- verse diameter was considerably diminished, while the vertical extent on the right side was considerably increased, this change in shape being due chiefly to a movement of its left inferior surface. This plasticity and sponge-like character may account, to a certain extent, for the beneficial effects of physical exercise. Professor Rutherford used to teach us that the liver was like a sponge, and that the compression of the walls of the abdomen and chest around it squeezed out the bile. But physical exercise has another beneficial effect, as it quickens the venous return, by tlie aspiration of the thorax, through the inferior vena cava— so that at eacli inspiration the blood is drawn rapidly througli it: it thus acts in two ways—by squeezing and by aspirating. It is no doubt for this reason that the hepatic veins have been made non-collapsable. This is seen to the best advantage in ]uountain climbing. Herein also, no doubt, lies the special value of laughter as a therapeutical agent. " A merry heart doetli good hke medicine," said the wisest of men in ancient times; and "Laugh and grow fat," says the profane man of our own time. In this way melan diole is got rid of—by which is meant, I suppose, the stagnated products of the liver. The same may also be said for the jolting exercise on horseback, and also the great good derived from taking a few full and deep respira- tions occasionally. Here, also, I would point out one of the great evils of corsets, as worn by ladies at the present day; not only do they keep the liver constantly compressed, distorted, and semi-asphyxiated, but also render it impossible to take full andSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 817 deep respirations, or perform th at physical exercise whicli would do it a world of good. For the same reason also they play an important part in the production of phthisis. It is impossible to take full and deep inspirations, and many parts of the lungs are thus thrown out of use, and as a result of this the tissues tend to degenerate, and fall an easy prey to the invading hosts of micro- organisms. Full and free respirations are the gymnastics of the lungs. Hence the value of th.e frequent practice of vocal music. The waist of the Venus do Medici in the Uffizi Gallery, at Florence, forms a graceful oval of nearly twenty-seven inches, l3ut the waists of her modern representatives are reduced, by means of corsets, to an ungraceful circle of from eighteen to twenty-two inches. But not only do corsets distort the body and keep the liver semi- asphyxiated and inactive, because it is surcharged with stagnated blood, but, I believe, they also play a very important part—pro- bably the chief exciting cause—in the production of cancer of the breast. At every step the woman takes the breast partakes of a quivering or trembling movement, and the nipple is irritated against the upper edge of the rigid corsets. This constant irrita- tion of the nipple, over a long period of time, may play a more important part in cancer production than many are inclmed to suppose; at any rate, in the cases of cancer of the male breast 1 have seen, there has always been a sufficient exciting cause, in the shape of local irritation, comparable to that which might be produced by corsets. "With a fair amount of attention to the more obvious laws of health, no one should be conscious that he has got such an organ; but, curiously enough, whether rightly or wrongly I do not say, it seems to be looked upon as the prime cause of half the diseases that afflict human male flesh—in short, it stands in the same relation to diseases of tlie male sex, that "utero-gestation," or more correctly, constipation, seems to stand in relation to female diseases. There can be but little doubt, I think, that in most cases it is more sinned against than sinning. In cases of disordered liver, pain is often felt in the right clavicle and tip of the shoulder; the exact cause is doubtful. It may either be due to conduction along the phrenic to the third and fourth cervical nerves, and then along the acromial branches to the318 Applied Anatomy: shoulder tip, or else to irritation of the vagus, transmitted along the spinal accessory, which communicates with the cervical nerves in the posterior triangle. Similar referred pains are also noticed in disorders of the stomacli; thus in dyspepsia we find pain under the left scapula and in the loins and limbs, and in gastric ulcer pain is felt over the lower dorsal vertebrae, as Avell as locally. THE GALL BLADDER. The Gall Bladder lies in a depression on the under surface of the liver; its fundus is directed towards the abdominal Avail, being directed downwards and forwards and to the right, and projects slightly beyond the anterior edge of the liver. It is about four inches in length, one inch in breadth at its widest part, and holds from eight to ten drachms. It is situated behind the ninth costal cartilage (opposite the tip of the tenth costal cartilage—Quain), close to the right linea semilunaris (see Tig. 176, rj). It rests below, on the commencement of the transverse colon, and further back is in contact with the duodenum, and sometimes with the pyloric end of the stomach. In cases where the common bile duct is obstructed, as by gall stones, the gall bladder is distended with bile, often forming a large tumour. The swelling moves with respiration, since it is attached to the liver, and may be seen moving under the abdominal parietes as the patient breathes; further, it is egg-shaped, with the large end forwards. The patient may or may not be jaundiced. It will often be difficult to be (juite sure what is the cause of tlie obstruction before actually cutting down upon it—whether from gall stone-s, catarrh of the duct or duodenum, or tumours, simple and malignant, pressing on the duct from without. Cholecystotomy.—To relieve this condition the gall bladder has been opened by Lawson Tait and others, and the obstruction removed. This operation is known as "cholecystotomy." Tlie incision is made over the most prominent part of the tiunour parallel with the linea alba, in the linea alba, in the Hnea semi- lunaris, or, perhaps best of all, obliquely, parallel with the costal margin. The operation may be done in one or two stages, as in gastrostomy. Care must be taken, in dislodging the stones, lest perforation take place.319 Surgical, Medical, and Operative, RESUME of the chief steps of this operation:— 1. Make an oblique incision over the most prominent part of the tumour, parallel with, and a little below, the costal margin. '1. Dissect carefully through the abdominal wall till the peritoneum is exposed, and then carefully arrest all bleeding vessels. After this— 3. Open the peritoneum and expose the fundus of the gall bladder, introduce a finger along the bladder and its duct, to make sure of the diagnosis. \. Grasp the bladder by forceps, and pull it well into the wound; so arrange that the contents will flow out of, and not into, the peritoneal cavity, and then tap to draw off the collected fluid. 5. Holding the bladder still well up in the wound, Ijy means of a large curved needle, insert four or six carbolised silk stitches, at a little distance from the edge of the incision, into the wall of the gall bladder, but, if possible, not entering its cavity, so as to avoid leakage along the stitches. This outer row of sutures is to secure a broad attachment of the peritoneal sur- faces round the edges of the wound. After this the incision in the abdominal wall may be narroM'ed dowa as far as necessary. 6. Open the gall bladder by scissors in the middle of the exposed portion, and stitch the edges of the opening thus made to the skiji margin of the abdominal wound by a close row of radiating stitches; these stitches protect the external wound. 7. Put in a finger and gently clear out the stones as far as possible; in cases where they are impacted near the cystic duct, rather leave alone than use force, lest you cause perforation. H. Drain if necessary, dust with line boracic powder, wwA dress in the usual niaiiiuM'.Applied Anatomy: 320 The gall bladder may be entirely removed, after closing the cystic duct, by ligature, close to its entry into the common duct. This operation is called Cholecystectomy, and has been performed by Knowsley Thornton. In cases of complete obliteration of the common bile duct, the gall bladder may be stitched to the jejunum, and, after adhesions have formed, an opening may be made from the gall bladder into the gut. Tliis operation is known as Cholecystenterostomy. Gall stones.—The chief ingredients of gall stones are cliolesterine and inspissated mucus; other matters present are colouring matter ((■liolochrome), phosphate and carbonate of lime and magnesia, biliary and fatty acids. They are distinguished from urinary calculi—(1) By being much lighter, when dry, they float in water; though when first taken out they are slightly heavier than water, and just sink. (2) Tliey have a greasy or fatty feel. (3) The colour differs from the usual urinary calculi. (4) Their shape is more markedly facetted and triangular than urinary calcidi. (5) Glistening fracture.321 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. CHAPTER XXXVIII. THE ABDOMEN — fOontinued). THE SPLEEN. The spleen lies far back in tlie left liypochontlrinm behind the stomacli. Its average size, in tlie adult, is about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch and a half in thickness. It weighs about seven ounces. It is not placed vertically, as is often described, but lies very obli(|uely ; "it is oblique in two directions—viz., from above downwards and outwards, and also from above downwards and forwards" (CuxNiNGHAJi). It lies parallel Avith, and follows the obliquity of, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs ; its " upper" extremity tlierefore points towards, and is not very far removed from, the spinal column. The upper end is attached to the diaphragm by the phrenico-.splenic ligament; by this means, therefore, the organ partakes of the respiratory movements of that muscle— siiddng during inspiration and rising during expiration. This is one valuable aid in the diagnosis of splenic tumours. Its lower end rests on the phrenico-colic (costo - colic) ligament, which, coupled Avitli the natural obliquity of the organ, guides an eidarged spleen in a direction downwards and forwards towards tlie unibiHcus. Tlie outer surface rests against the diaphragm, whicli lies between it and the ribs before mentioned; between tliis surface, therefore, and the skin, we find the peritoneum, diaphragm, jileura covering the upper .surface of the diaphragm, a wedge - sha])ed mass of lung tissue encased by pleura, tlus jileural " cavity," the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs covered witli pleura on their inner surfaces, and, lastly, the soft ])arts of the chest widl. It will be evident, therefoni, lliat the spleen cannot *x322 Applied Anatomy: he excised from its external aspect. The inner surface is concave, and is connected with the stomach hy the gastro-splenic omentum —the structure which causes the most anxiety during excision of the organ, as it contains the large arteries and veins—the splenic and the vasa brevia. The anterior border is usually notched; this fact is useful in diagnosing enlargements of the spleen from other tumours. The lower or outer end of the spleen, in health, usually reaches midway between the posterior and mid-axillary lines, over the ribs already named. At this point it most nearly reaches the surface, and a small portion may be made out by percussion; as it passes upwards and backwards, however, from this point it is separated, as already mentioned, from the surface by the left lung and the thick layer of muscles of the back, and is beyond the reach of percussion. The si^lenic dullness is more evident when the iDatient lies on his right side, for then the spleen gravitates forwards; the normal spleen is best percussed when the patient is standing Avith the left arm removed from the side. In conse- quence, however, of the near presence of the stomach and the splenic flexure of the colon, it is necessary to percuss very lightly, in order to obtain its true position. The splenic plexus of the sympathetic is formed by branches from the right semilunar ganglion and from the right pneumogastric nerve. Occasionally, a communication is formed between the splenic artery and vein, giving rise to aneurismal varix. The recorded symptoms are obscure—profuse hgematemesis, very tender abdomen, diarrhoea, Iruit over the region of the spleen, resembhng a " venous hum," bleeding from the bowels, and ascites. Splenic Tumours and Enlargements are to be distinguished by the following points — (1) They move with the diaphragm during inspiration and expiration; (2) the position shifts by turning the patient over to the right side, when it gravitates forwards; (3) tlie mode of origin and course—they begin above in the left hypochondrium, and grow downwards and forwards towards the umbilicus, curving round in front of tlie fundus of the stomach and colon, and therefore have no bowel in front, as is the case with renal tumours; (4) the dullness is continuous with that of the normal splenic dullness; (5) they are usually paiidess; (6) the tumour has a milrh in the anterior border, wliich is also sharp323 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. and M'oU ilofinecl; (7) by passing one Land into the ilio-costal space, outside the mass of the erector spinas, while the other rests Hat on the front of the abdominal wall, it may be possible to tilt lip the tumour against tlie hand; (8) there is a line of resonance between the tumour and the vertebral spines, and tlic fingers can be readily dipped between the tumour and the spinal groove; and (9) its angle witli the costal margin is greater than a right angle. Causes of Splenic Enlargement.—It is enlarged tramientJij after every meal; more or less permanently in leucocyth;emia, adenia or Hodgkix'« disease, waxy disease, recent syphilis, and in rickets, intermittent and remittent fever, typhus, typhoid, and scarlet fever, and in congestion, from over-filling of the portal system of veins, as from valvular disease of the heart and cirrhosis of the liver. The fibrous capsule of the spleen contains mnch non-striped ninscuiar fibre, and therefore alters its shape easily. Rupture of the spleen is always a very serious accident, from the great iuemorrhage, and especially so in cases of enlarged spleen, as found m India. The free h;cniorrliage is not to be wondered at when one remembers the large size of tlie sjjlenic artery, and the absence of a proper system of capillaries. Excision of the Spleen.—This operation has been performed for—(1) Wounds or injuries of the spleen, (2) lloating spleen, (3) simple liypertrophy, and (4) malarial spleen. It must nut be performed for the enlarged spleen of leucocythtvmia; in sixteen cases Avhcre it was performed for tliis condition, ccerij patient died. As regards the Inclsion, it may be either made from tlie eightli costal cartilage along the left Unea semilunaris to the required extent (see Fig. 170, 2), or in the linea alba, Avith its centre opposite the umbilicus. The details of the operation closely resemble those of ovariotomy—the spleen being isolated from its surroundings, and its pedicle clamped and finally secured by ligature ; as already pointed out, the management of the gaslro- uplenic omentum, attached to the sides of the hilus, and cuiitaining the large vessels, forms the most diflicult part of the operation. All traction on the pedicle must be avoided, lest the si)lenic vein be ruptured; the best rcsidts have been obtained in those cases where there has been naturally a long gastro-splenic omentum. In lining out the organ, take care and not rupture its capsule.Applied Anatomy: 324 Some trouble is also occasionally caused by adhesions between the spleen and the jjancreas or even with the left kidney. The special dangers of the operation are (1) hemorrhage from the omental vessels, (2) injury to the pancreas, and (3) injury to the dense plexus of sympathetic nerves in this region, in relation to the left supra-renal capsule: it is probably from this cause that persistent vomiting sometimes follo"\vs the operation. THE KIDNEYS. The Kidneys are situated in the right and left lumbar regions, opposite three and a half vertebras—from the last dorsal vertebra to the middle of the third lumbar vertebra; the hilus of the kidney is opposite the first lumbar vertebra, and about tM'o inclies from the middle line. They lie entirely hehind the peritoneum, embedded in loose areolar tissue, and are placed somewhat obliquely, the iipper ends of the kidneys inclining toAvards tlic vertebra\ This obli(|ue position is important, as in cases ■where, the spine is bent much forwards, the kidney for this reason iits into the bend better, and with less chance of being cr\ishcd up. The size of each kidney is about four inches in length, two in breadth, and one in thickness—the left is somewhat larger, though thinner, than the right. The weight of the kidney in the adult male varies from four and a half to six ounces; in the adult female, from four to five and a half ounces, the left being nearly ahvays heavier than the right by about two drachms. Relations.—Each kidney rests on the corresponding crus of the diaphragm, quadratus lumborum, and psoas; or, rather, on the fascia covering these muscles. In front is the colon; at the upper end is the supra-renal capsidc; the lower end is about two inclies above the crest of the ilium. The above relations arc common to the two kidjieys ; but there are certain special relations —in front of the right kidney is the second part of the duodenum; in front of the left, the pancreas; at the upper end of the right kidney is the right lobe of the liver; at the upper end of thi' left, the spleen. The right kidney is a little lower than the left, probably because the liver presses it down somewhat; the left kidney reaches to the upper border of the eleventh rib, but theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 325 right only readies to the middle of the coi'responding rib on the opposite side; the left kidney is also longer and narrower than the right. The ureters arise at the hilus of the kidney, from the dilated pelvis, and also pass down behind the peritoneum. Each ureter is about fifteen inches in length, and is about the size of a goose quill. At the upper part they rest on the psoas muscle, the genito-crural nerve, the common iliac vessels on the left side, but the external iliac vessels on the ricjlit, and then enter the posterior false ligaments of the bladder, pass across the recto- vesical pouch of peritoneum, and run forwards by the side and base of the bladder, below the level of the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and enter the bladder wall about two inches distant from eacli other. They traverse the bladder wall very obliquely for about three-quarters of an inch, and then open internally about an inch distant from each other and fully one inch behind the urethra, so that the three openings almost form ah equilateral triangle. This oblique perforation of the bladder does aAvay with any necessity for a valve to guard the orifice, just as is the case with the bile duct. In cases of the so-called " double ureter," the extra ureter opens into the uterus masculinus, being, in fact, a persistent Muller's duct. Both ureters are crossed by the spermatic vessels, and the right ureter lies a little external to the inferior vena cava, while the left is a short distance from the aorta. The Relation of the Kidneys to the Surface of the Body. —Anteriorly (see Fig. 175).—According to Mr Morris, their position may be defined thus—(1) A horizontal line through the umbilicus is below the lower edge of each kidney, but the left is a little higher up than the right; and (2) a vertical line carried up from the middle of PourART's ligament, parallel with the middle line of the body, has one-third of the Icidney to its outer side, and two-thirds to its inner side. Posteriorly (see Fig. 179).— (1) A line parallel witli, and one inch from, the spinous processes of the vertebne, extending from the lower edge of the eleventh dorsal spine to the corresponding part of the third lumbar vertebra; and (2) a line parallel witli the first, and of the same length, but two inches and three-(|uarters to its outer side, will326 Applied Anatomy; mark the outer border of the kidney. By joining the upper and lower ends of these Unes, a little box is marked out which con-e- sponds to the position of the kidney. In carrying the dissection through this box the following structures are found covering the kidney-—(1) Skin, with the cutaneous branches of the lower dorsal and lumbar nerves, and cutaneous twigs of the intercostal and lumbar arteries; (2) deep fascia; (3) aponeurosis, and part of the muscular fibres of the latissimus dorsi; (4) serratus posticus inferior; (5) posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis; (6) the internal oblique— the external oblique muscle is also seen, as well as the last rib, and the lowest external intercostal muscle; (7) the erector spinas muscle; and (8) then the middle layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle. The quadratus lumborum muscle is now ex- posed, and resting on its anterior surface are the anterior branches of the four lumbar arteries. (9) The quadratus and vessels are now removed, and after that (10) the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis. (11) A quantity of loose adipose tissue is next to be removed, when the posterior surface of the kidney is exposed. Crossing the posterior surface of the kidney from above downward, we find («) the anterior branches of the last dorsal vessels and nerve, {h) the ilio-hypogastric nerve, and (c) the iho-inguinal nerve. To the inner side of the kidney is the psoas. Tumours of tlie Kidney (1) usually first show themseh'es a little above and external to the umbilicus, filling up the hollow in the loin, and, further, it is usually fi.ced in the loin: (2) the resonant large intestine passes in front of the tumour; (3) thej^ do not partake of the respiratory movements, as they are not attached to the diaphragm, altliough they may adhere to the liver and spleen, and when tliis is the case they mil move more or less with the diaphragm; (4) there is no resonant line between the tumour and the spine; (5) it has no sliarp-notclied edge like the spleen, but is rounded on i^cery side; ((3) there is a peculiar fainting or sickening sensation when the tumour is handled; (7) it may some- times cause varicocele; and (8) its angle with the costal margin is less than a right angle. In examining the kidney one liand is placed in the flank, with the fingers outside the mass of tlie erector spina?, tlie other in front, outside the rectus abdominis.i Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 327 Rupture of the Kidney is not necessarily so serious as rupture of the liver and spleen, and is often recovered from; the bleeding need not be great; and, further, it lies behind the peritoneum. Hydronephrosis is apt to follow should the pelvis be involved, as blood clots plug the ureter, and may subsequently undergo organisation and block up the orifice. The kidney is apt to be displaced in the game of lawn tennis during the period of menstruation, especially if, at the same time, tight-lacing be indulged in; during menstruation the kidney is enlarged and heavier than at other times. Primary Malignant Disease (sarcoma) of the kidney is very apt to occur in children. It may reach an enormous size, filling up the entire abdomen, and obliterating the inferior vena cava; hence, the whole of the blood from the lower extremities and abdomen must be conveyed through the superficial veins of the abdominal wall, and reach the superior vena cava through the internal mammary and intercostal veins. Fortunately, the pain caused by these growths is often very slight; there may be blood in the urine. The relation between the right kidney and the duodenum should be specially noted, as many diseased conditions of this part of the gut may simulate kidney disease, as calculous pyelitis and the paui accompanying that condition, or attacks of renal colic. But in duodenal disease the pain, vomiting, etc., has a close relation to food, being most severe about three hours after food, as about that time the contents of the stomach pass into the duodenum; in ulcer and inflammation of the duodenum there is usually also a rapid loss of flesh. Further, note the relation of the kidney to the colon: in tubercular disease of tlie kidney the abscesses may open into the colon, or point in the loin. The left kidney may be reached by the finger, when the hand is introduced into the rectum; this fact has also been taken advantage of for the purpose of securing the kidneys after death without any visible mutilation. Another point of importance is that the transverse processes of tlie lumbar vertebrae jut out some little distance over the posterior surface of the kidney—probably about half-an-inch.—and hence in puncturing the kidney with a needle from the surface to ascertain the presence of a calculus, without making a diagnostic incision328 Applied Anatomy : down to the kidney, the needle may strike a transverse process and lead to a mistaken diagnosis. Hydronephrosis.—Tliis is a chronic affection, and may occur at any period of life, and may even be congenital, causing obstruc- tion during the second stage of laboiir; this seems to show that the kidneys secrete actively for some time before birth. It is a mechanical dilatation of the pelvis of the kidney, with atrophy, first of the mali^ighian pyramids, and finally of the whole interior of the organ, forming a large, often lobulated, smooth-wcdled cyst with a few ill-developed septa in its interior. Causes.—It is caused by obstruction anywhere between the upper end of the ureter and the meatus urinarius. If single it must be from obstruction somewhere in the ureter of that side, as an impacted calculus, stricture from iilceration and inflammation of the ureter itself, or of the pelvis of the kidney, tumours of the pelvis of the kidney, as papilloma or sarcoma, tiunours of bladder obstructing one ureter, compression by a tumour external to the ureter, unilateral pelvic cellulitis, e.specially in women, tumours and cysts of the ovary, or broad ligament, on one side, injury to, and subsequent organisation of a blood clot in, the ureter. In bad cases of single hydronephrosis the obstruction is usually either at the upper or lower end of the ureter. Double Hydronephrosis— where the obstruction is in, or in front of, the bladder, as stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, paralysis of the bladder following spinal injuries, widespread villous or other tumour of the bladder. Hydronephrosis is almost twice as frequent in females as in males, I^robably due to the frequency of pelvic cellulitis (utero-sacral) and cancer of the neck of the uterus, as the ureter in the female passes along the sides of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina. Congenital Hydronephrosis is usually due to twists of the iu:eter, arteries or bands passing in front of the ureter and compressing it, an abnormally narrow opening into the bladder, or a very narrow opening in the point of the penis. This condition is often associated with other deformities, as club-foot, hydrocephalus, and spina bifida. ITrom this relation of the ureter to the upper part of the vagina it occasionally happens that a uretero - vaginal fistula forms, from accidents during parturition, pelvic cellulitis, abscess, andSurgicaly Medical, and Operative. 329 ulcerations. lu this condition the "water from one ureter comes away constantly, while the water from the other one collects in the bladder, which the woman herself can empty from time to time. This constant dribbling of nrine, together with the occasional emptying of the bladder as in health, distinguishes uretero-vaginal from vesico-vaginal fistula, where the water all comes away in a continuous dribble when the patient is in the erect posture. A constant dribbling of urine is also a very early sign of retroflexion of the gravid uterus; this dribbling, however, is the overflow of an over-distended bladder, resembling the condition met with in the opposite sex from enlarged prostate, being really due to retention. Pyelitis is an acute or chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the pelvis of the kidney. It is usually caused by calculi, or tubercle, either primary, or spreading from some other part of the genito-urinary tract. JSTote how the pain radiates in renal affections—along the line of the rrreters to the bladder or testicle, causing retraction of that organ; it may also shoot down the thigh: there is also local pain in the lumbar region. In Abscess round the Kidney, the thigh of that side is flexed to prevent the psoas pressing upon the inflamed tissue; hence, the patient is lame, and often Avalks with the body bent forwards and leaning to one side, and also sits on one tuber ischii, and is unable to extend the thigh. The knee joint is often complained of, and it is then apt to be mistaken for morbus coxae; but when the thigh is flexed the pain is less, and the joint can be moved freely in all directions. Perinephritic abscesses are very apt to involve the pleura and lung, causing empyema, pneumonia, and abscess, or may open into the colon or bladder. It very frequently forms a " lumbar abscess." Pyonephrosis. —This diff"ers from hydronephrosis in that tlio tluid distending the pelvis is not water but pus: it is hydro- ncplirosis, plus pyelitis. "Surgical Kidney." — This may be defined as suppurative nephritis, pyelitis, or both togethei', forming ^uppnrailw pijclo- iif'/iliritix, and is usually secondary to obstruction to the outflow of urine, to reflex irritation, or to decomposition of the urine in the bladder, the micro-organisms then spreading up to the kidn(>.y. It is tlie worst form of " urinary fever." It is tlie constant rifikApplied Anatomy: 330 of " catheter life," where the i^rostate is enlarged, and there is a constant partial retention, or "residual urine;" it is probably in many cases begun by the use of an imperfectly-purified catheter. The residual urine is thus infected, the organisms thrive there, aiid then spread to the kidney; this is the beginning of the end, the signing of the patient's death-warrant. Tlie moral of this is evident —always purify catheters very thoroughly lefore drawiny off the urine from a patient ivith obstruction in any part of the urethra, hut especially in old men with enlarged prostates. It is one of the great risks, too, in cases where the spinal cord is destroyed above the lumbar enlargement, as by crushes, myelitis, etc.; the risk is during the first fortnight, when there is usually retention, and the urine has to be drawn off; after this period there is incontinence. Supra-Renal Capsules.—The supra-renal capsules are situated behind the peritoneum, just in front of the upper part of each kidney. Relations.—The anterior surface is in relation, on the right side, with the inner surface of the liver; and on the left Avith the pancreas and spleen. The posterior surface rests upon the corresponding cms of the diaphragm, opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra: the lower border rests upon the upper end of the kidney: the inner border is in relation with the great splanchnic nerves and semilunar ganglia, touching the inferior vena cava on the right side, and the aorta on the left. The Nerves are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves; the branches of the jilexus are very large, and have numerous ganglia developed on them. The function of these bodies is ill-understood—or rather, not understood at all. They are supposed to have some connection with Addison's disease, as in about half the cases the capsules are tubercular, with caseated masses in their interior; this disease is accompanied by a bronzed tint of the skin, especially on the exposed parts, or parts naturally pigmented, vomiting, progressive emaciation, extreme debility, and profound auiemia. The symptoms are probably due to implication of the solar plexus. Sarcoma of the supra-renal capsules may simulate Addisox's disease. Their usual size is from one to two inches in length, rather less in width, and from tM'o to three lines in thickness. Their weight, from one to two drachms.331 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. OPERATIONS PERFOEMED ON THE KIDNEY. Diagnostic Incisions.—A diagnostic incision is one that is used, in cases of doiilit, to clear up the diagnosis, and also, if necessary, for treatment as well. Various forms are used — (1) Professor Chiene always uses a vertical incision, as for colotomy, only well up into the angle between the last rib and the erector spina-; by this incision the anatomical guides are more definite—first the edge of the erector spina?, and then the edge of the quadratus lumboruni. Should the kidney require removal, the space may be increased a more or less transverse cut at the upper end of the vertical incision. (2) Another way is to make the oblique cut first, and tlien, if necessary, add tlie vertical. An incision is made from below the free end of the last rib backwards to the edge of the erector spinte; tlie posterior end of this incision must be at least three - quarters of an inch below the rib, lest the jileura be wounded. Then, should the kidney require excision, a vertical incision is made downwards, along the outer border of the ijuadratus lumborum. Tapping the Kidney.—This operation is performed for («) hydro- nephrosis, (/>) pyonephrosis, and {(•) large isolated cysts, whether s(>rous, bloody, or from hydatids, when there is danger of the cyst ^\■all giving way, or the pressure symptoms are serious. Seat of Puncture.—Over a fiuctuating point, if there is one; if not, then on the left side, about an inch in front of the last intercostal space (see Fig. 179, 5) : on the right side, midway between the last rib and the iliac crest, about two inches and a half behind the anterior superior iliac spine (see Fig. 179, 6'). The puncture is made in this position on the right side, to avoid the liver. Risks of the Operation.—(a) Ell'usion of tlie contents into the peritoneal cavity—the peritoneum is usually adherent and prevents this accident; (/;) puncture of gut; (c) puncture of some of the largo a1)dominal vessels; {d) puncture of tlie liver; and (*') puncture of tlie pleura, if too near the last rib. Nephrotomy. — P.y this is meant an incision into the kidney for puri.oses otlier tlian tlie I'cmoval of a calculus, it is used for— (") llydro-nephrosis, when the cyst refills quickly, after repeatedApplied Anatomy: 332 tappings. In cases of this nature, Dr Duncan Tecommends the injection of iodine into the cyst, after evacuation of its contents, before resorting to nephrotomy; the only disadvantage of this plan is the severe pain to which it gives rise, (i) In cases of hydatid cysts where it is impossible to empty the cyst thoroughly; (c) pyonephrosis ; and {d) for calculus, or tubercular abscess. The incision resembles that for lumbar colotomy, only being a little nearer the median line and higher up (Fig. 179, 1). The incision Mr Morris recommends is slightly oblique, in the ilio-costal space, beginning over the outer edge of the erector spinas and continued forwards for three inches and a half. The kidney is then exposed, the cyst opened and the contents evacuated, the edges stitched to the sides of the incision, and a drainage tube inserted—the inten- tion being to make the wound heal from the bottom upwards. In cutting down upon the right kidney the operator may first reach the liver: it forms at this jioint a narrow resisting edge, ■v^dth a shallow groove between it and the kidney. Dr Syjiingtox first pointed out to me that this was the case, especially if the stomacli Avas at all distended, and I was able to confirm this observation when operating upon the dead body. Of course, to actually expose the liver the peritoneal cavity must be opened, an accident tliat must be carefully avoided. Nephiro-Litliotomy.—This operation Avas first performed by Mr Henry Morris in the year 1880. It is an incision into the secreting tissue, or the pelvis of the kidney, for the express pur- pose of removing a calculus. The cases in Avhich he recommends this operation are, when the syuijDtoms of renal calculus are not influenced by medicinal treatment and interfere Avith the comfort and usefiUness of the patient's life, "^^'here there is almost con- stant pain in one loin, passing along the ureter probably to tlio testicle of the same side; Avliere there are recurring attacks of renal colic, with blood, pus, or albumen in tlie urine, probably Avith the passage of gravel jier urethram. An incision four inches and a half long is made parallel Avith the last rib, and three- quarters of an inch beloAV it (Fig. 179, 1). AVhen the kidney is exposed, then feel its posterior surface Avith the finger for the presence of hardness or irregularity; and if this fail to detect stogie .tlvJjii jjass a fine Jiecdlc into tlie secreting substance. luSurgical^ Medical, and Operative. removing a stone it is better to cut into the secreting substance, as there is less risk of urinary fistula than when the incision is made into the pelvis. A dramage tube is then introduced and tlie wound stitched up, dressings applied, and a pad of German peat moss placed below to absorb the urine. The dangers are hemorrhage from the divided renal substance, cellulitis, renal abscess, renal fistula, and lumbar hernia. As regards palliative and preventive treatment, the patient should avoid excess of animal diet, and live chiefly on milk, use alkaline drinks to dissolve the stone, especially salts of the alkalies (potassium and lithium) with the organic acids, or the waters of Vichy or Eras. Composition of Renal Calculi.—In infancy the nucleus is urate of ammonium, recognised by its fawn colour; in childhood, other urates; in the j'oung adult it is uric or oxalic acid; and after forty years of ago it is oxalic acid or phosphates. Nephrorraphy.—This operation consists in cutting down ui)un iuid exposing tlic kidney, and stitching it to the edges of the wound. It is employed for floating, movable, or wandering kidney, which is the seat of frequent severe and spasmodic attacks of pain, or continuous suffering. An incision is used similar to that for nephrotomy. A floating kidney is one that has a meso-nephron and for this reason is able to move about; a movable kidney is one that moves about behind the peritoneum, but which lias not a meso-nephron. Nephrectomy is the complete removal of a Icidney from the living body. It is used for the removal of a diseased kidney in Avhich all less radical measures have failed; in some cases where nephro-lithotomy is not practicable; in ureteral urinary fistula; ini badly M'ouuded or ruptured kidney; tumours, xmaV and vicdiuin 4::pd, of various kinds; and sometimes in Avandering kidney. It was first performed by Simon, of Heidelberg, who lai<l down the law that it is only to be done when the patient's life is in danger and all other means have failed. It may be performed through a lumbar incision; the advantages of this form of incision arc (I) the poritonoum is not opened, and (2) the wound drains well.. An incision is made four and a liall: inches in length, slightly oblir|uc, at least half-an-inch below the last rib, lest the pleura be Avouiidcd (Fig. 170, /). Except tlud, it is on a higher lev(>l, the334 Applied Anatomy: incision resembles that for colotouiy. When tlie kidney is readied a second incision is made by dividing the tissues fi'om within outwards by a probe-pointed bistoury; this second cut is vertical, along the outer border of the quadratus lumborum, and joins the previous incision about an inch from its posterior end. By means of the second incision the pedicle is ligatured more easily; in cases where the space is small, some Surgeons advise excision of a part of the last rib, although Mr Morris strongly condemns this practice, preferring, if more room be reqiiired during ligature of the pedicle, to drag the lower ribs forcibly upwards, with the fingers of the left hand dipped into the wound. In the pedicle the vessels and the lu'eter are usually ligatured separately; the ligature is passed by means of an aneurism needle. If the vessels are ligatured separately the arterij must be ligatured before the vein. The lower ribs are then pulled upwards and the kidney dragged into tlie wound, another ligature applied to the pedicle, which is then divided and the kidney removed; in many cases it will be advisable to incise the capsule and enucleate the Ividney, leaving the capsule behind wvtli the jiedicle^—-especially in cases where there has been much peri-renal inflammation. All bleeding vessels are then tied, the sutures cut oH' short and dropped into the wound ; a tube, like that used in lithotomy, Avithout lateral perforations, is then inserted and the wound closed. This tube is to carry ofi" the urine alone; if the wound requires draiuagi' a sej^arate tube must be used, as the urine is not to be allowed to flow over the surfaces of the wound. If tlie wound is in the substance of the kidney, the tube is left in two or three daj's; if in the pelvis, it must be left in a Aveek or ten days. Tlie dangers of this operation are—tearing open the peritoneum or colon, injury to the vessels from too great strain, giving rise to luvuiorrhagc later, unemia, haemorrhage from the broken up kidney-substance, and shock. The Abdominal Incision.— This form is used in tlie case of large tumours, and for the excision of wandenng kidney. An incision is made, opposite the kidney lo be removed, in the coiTC- sponding linea semilunaris, its length varying mth the size of the tumour to be removed. Tiiis incision is the more fatal of the two, and for tliis reason the other is lo be used -wliere possible. Its chiefSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 335 dangers are—Septic peritonitis, pvilmonaiy embolism, and py;emiii. An advantage of the abdominal method is that both kidneys can be examined, especially if the incision be made in the linea alba, so that there is less risk of removing the healthy kidney and leaving the diseased one. Of course a median laparotomy might be i^erformed, the kidneys examined, and then the diseased one removed by the lumbar operation. PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. A small incision is made with a scalpel in the middle line, a little below the umbilicus (about two inches), and through this opening the trocar is thrust; if the aspirator is used, a preliminary incision is unnecessary. It is better, however, to keep up pressure on the abdomen as the fluid escapes, lest the abdominal vessels burst on account of being thus suddenly relieved from the pressure of the fluid. The instruments required are—Scalpel, trocar or aspirator, split sheet, sponges, needle and silk sutures, scissors, avooI and collodion, bucket, adhesive plaster, brandy, etc. Pressure is best kept up by means of a broad flannel roller, split at each end to within six inches of the middle, and applied in such a way that the untorn part covers the front of the abdomen, while the ends are crossed behind and given to an assistant on each side to keep up the pressure as the fluid escapes. A small hole must be made in the anterior part of the flannel roller through which to introduce the trocar or aspirator. The Surgeon must be ready to close the cannula with his finger should the flow threaten to become inter- mittent, lest air be admitted. Another precaution is to make sure that the bladder is empty before the operation. In tai)ping the abdomen in other situations, the course of the epigastric vessels must be kept in mind. The possible dangers of the operation are latal syncope, peritonitis, csi)ccially in cases of Bukiut's tliscasc, lucmorrhage, wound oC the bladder, wound of the bowel I'rom not selecting a dull area, or from plungijig the instrument too deeply. SouTHKY uses a small " drainage - trocar," which is left in till the distension is relieved. The fluid is drawn ofl' xluwh/, and this avoids the risk of syncope, and the necessity of bandaging. It has no tendency to set \\\\ ])critonitis, and is almost painless.Applied Anatomy: 33a Ovarian Dropsy and Ascites in the Female :- Ovarian Dropsy. 1. The tumour gradually develops from one iliac fossa, and is in front of tlie intestines, and is attached by pedicle to pelvis. 2. Tumour is more or less central in position and ovoid, and causes the centre of the abdomen to project when the patient lies on her back, or may be more at one side than the other, o. On percussion, the dullness is round about the umbilicus, the intestines giving a clear note at the sides. The upper limit is convex. •i. The fluid is confined in a cyst, and, therefore, change of position does not alter the shape of the dullness, though the whole cyst may fall to one side. o. Swelling of the feet and ankles only occurs in the last stages. 0. No particular change in the veins of the abdominal wall. 1. Flnctuatinn, nr (luctualiou wave, often indistinct, and if the cyst be multilocular is unequal at different parts. 8. No bulging into tlie posterior wall of the vagina, in uncomplicated cases. Ascites. 1. There is no history of latcial development, and the intestines lloat up upon the fluid. 2. The bulging is at the flanks when the patient lies on her back, and the front of the abdomen is flattened, but when well marked may be of a uniform globular outline. 3. The dullness is at the flanks, as the fluid gravitates there; the, centre is clear as the intestines arc floated up. The upper limit is'concave in the ei'ect posture. 4. Tlic fluid is free, and change of position alters the line of dull- ness, as it gravitates to the lowest part. 5. Swelling of the feet and ankles an early symptom. 6. The veins are very well marked, and fill most quickly from below upwards, as the pressure of the free fluid presses on the inferior vena cava. 7. Fhu'tuntion, or fluctuation ware, well marked, always, equally, and in every direction. S. Bulging into the posterior wall of the vagina, from the pressure of the fluid in Douglas's pouch. Note the differeucc between "Fluctuation" and "Fluctuatiiui AVave." In Fluctuation, when the halls of the fingers of one hand are placed gently and firmly on one side of the Auid swelling, and the other hand presses the opposite side of the tumour gently, the tumour is felt to rise under the fingers nf the first hand. It is not alone the sinJn'inf of the fingers nf the second hand that con.slitutcsS'lirgical, Medical, and Opcradzv. 337 lluctnati'on, but tlie raising of tlio otlier hand as well. Elasticity is merely the sinking of tlie fingers of one hand, but without raising the fingers of the other. Botli hands must be used, and the swelling must be firmly fixed, so that it cannot move en masse. Fluctuation Wave can only be obtained where there is a fairly large collection of fiuid, as in ascites and large unilocular ovarian cysts. The palm of one hand is placed fiatly over one side of the abdomen, Avhile the opposite side is tapped sharply with the fingers of the other, when a distinct wave will be found to strike the palm of the first hand. It is necessary, however, to exclude the vibrations of the aT)dominal walls, which is done b^- placing a book in the front of the abdomen, or by getting an assistant to place the edge of one hand gently on the centre of the abdomen. This will check the vibrations of the abdominal wall, .just as a violinist checks the vibration of the strings of -his fiddle at any given point, but will not stop the fluid wave. It is also necessary to diagnose ascites from colloid cancer of the peritoneum. In this case there is great enlargement and dullness over the whole of the abdomen, but an absence of fluc- tuation. It must also be diagnosed from distended bladder, large elastic tumours, renal cysts, and from a pregnant litems. It is often very difficult to diagnose an. ovarian cyst from an encysted dropsy of the peritoneum. In encysted dropsy, however, the tumour is more likely to occupy a central position, and the umbilicus is usually markedly everted. Nature of Different Fluids.—Parovarian fluid.—The paro- varium, or organ of Rosenmuller, corresponds to the epididymis in the male. The fluid is clear, transparent, and limpid, and consists of nothing but water and salts. It is slightly opalescent, and the specific gravity is about 1005 ; it is not coagulated by heat or nitric acid, and therefore docs not contain albumen. Hydatid fluid closely resembles parovarian fiuid, but it contains booklets. It is watery and limpid, of specific gravity 1008 to 101.3; it contains no albumen; there is a certain quantity of extractives and salts, especially chloride of sodium; and, floating in the fluid, are a number of booklets and scolices or echinococci heads. Ovarian fluid is very often markedly viscid, of a dark greenish- brown colour, and may be so thick as almost to be gelatinous,338 Applied Anatomy: often containing scales of cliolesterine. The specific gravity varies from 1010 to 1040, or even more. The viscidity is said to be due to the paralbumen of Scheuer ; this substance differs from ordinary albumen, in that it does not coagulate when boded witli a small quantity of acetic acid. It is stated that this form of albumen is never present in ascitic fluid. Ascitic fluid, on the other hand, often deposits fibrin, but fibrm is not a constituent of ovarian fluid. Should a fluid, therefoi'e, contain paralbumen and deposit fibrin, it is probably due to an ovarian cyst bursting into the jDeritoneal cavity. In some cases it is impossible to distiuguish between ovarian and ascitic fluid. It is stated that special cells are found in ovarian fluid. The cell is about the size of a pus cell, generally round, delicate and transparent, full of granules, hut has no nucleus. Acetic acid increases the transparency of the cell and makes its granules more evident. In cases of malignant disease, large pear-shajjed, round or oval cells are found. Tliese cells contain granular material, with one or several large clear nuclei, with nucleoli and a number of transj^areut globules or vacuoles. Ascitic fluid is a yellowish serous liquid, closely resembling slightly diluted liquor sanguinis, from Avhich, indeed, it is dii'ectly derived. It is a clear yellow, or greenish-yellow, alkaline fluid, with a specific gravity varying from 1020 to 1035. It consists of water, salts, albumen, and the elements of fibrin, and hence, on standing, may coagulate, depositing fibrin; indeed, in some cases it may be so thick and viscid, from coagulated matter, as to be incapable of flowing through the cannula.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 339 CHAPTER XXXIX. THE ABDOMEN — rGonHnmd). HERNIA. Br this term is meant a protrusion of a part of the viscera through some weak point in the abdominal wall; it is generally through some natural canal or opening, either actual or potential, which has become dilated: it may also take place through adventitious apertures, due to the separation of aponeixrotic fibres from dis- tension of the abdomen. A Hernia consists of a sac (tliat is the prolongation of the peritoneum which envelops the hernia), contents, and coverings. The coverings of any hernia consist of skin, fascia, muscles, and fat. Hernia is said to be inguinal when it comes through the opening or canal situated in the inguinal region of the groin; and Jtmoral when it comes through the opening or canal situated in the femoral region of the groin. The sac has its necU or narrow 2)art situated in the ring. The life history of the neck consists of three stages—(1) Its formation, when it is simply a corrugated oi' folded membrane; (2) its adhesion, where the folds adhere, and it becomes, more or less, a round hole; and (3) its contraction, where the adherent tissue contracts like ordinary fibrous adhesions. In all herniic there is a swelling in communication with the abdominal cavity, and which has been suddenly or gradually produced; if it has appeared mdditnlij the sac must have been pre-l'ornied, as in the different forms of "congenital" hernia. Patliological Varieties.—A hernia is said to be reducible when all tlie contents can be pushed back into the abdominal cavity. It is called irreducible when all the contents cannot be returned witliout tlie sac, and yet is neither strangulated nor obstructed; it may be wholly or partially irreducible. An obstructed herniaApplied Anatomy: 340 is where the contents of tlie boicel are checked in their passage at the sccat of the hernia—a local constipation; the term incarcerated hernia is sometimes applied to the same condition occurring in an irreducible hernia. An inflamed hernia is one in which the peritoneal envelope, or sac, is inflamed — a local peritonitis. A strangulated hernia is one where the venous blood return is checked by some constricting structure; this is followed by swell- ing, cedema, and then the arterial supply is also checked, and unless relieved the condition quickly passes on to gangrene of thu bowel; in addition to this, it is also irreducible and obstructed. Congenital herni;c are most liable to strangulation. INGUINAL HERNIA. This form is much more common in males, because in them the inguinal canal is larger, while the crural ring is smaller, than in females, on account of the less expanded iliac crests. The sjjace concerned in inguinal hernia is triangular, corresjaonding to the inguinal region of the groin, and has the following boundaries— Below, by Po up art's ligament; internally, by the linea alba; and above, by a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the linea alba. In connection with the subject of hernia, it Avill be well to consider the structure of the abdominal Avail at this point; the two longitudinal muscles (the rectus and pyramidalis) may be left out of account for the time being. If we were to examine the triangular space, mentioned above, from the inside of the abdomen, we would find that it is subdivided into two trian- gular parts by the deep epigastric artery (Fig. 186, e)—the arterj', in fact, almost bisecting the triangle in C[uestion—an outer triangular part, and an inner triangular part known as Hesselbach's triangle (Fig. 186, C, A, D). In dissecting the abdominal wall in the region of the outer triangular part, we find—(1) Skin; (2) super- ficial fascia; (3) tendon of the external oblique; (4) the internal oblique ; (5) the transversalis muscle; (6) fascia transversalis; (7) extra-peritoneal fat; and (8) the peritoneum. In the inner triangular space (that is, Hesselhach's triangle) the structures met with are similar, except that the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are inseparably imited, forming the "conjoined tendon," which is altarlicd to the crest of the pubesSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 341 and the pectineal line, and whicli, therefore, takes the place of the above muscles in this space. The conjoined tendon, however, does not entirely cover in the whole of Hesselbach's triangle. Tlie obliterated hypogastric artery (Fig. 186, Ix) passes across the triangle in question, internal to and almost parallel with the deep epigastric artery, and the space between these two structures is not covered by the conjoined tendon. For tliis reason, we shall see later that there may be two forms of direct Inguinal Hernia. Fig. 186, Space concerned in Inguinal Hernia, from the Inside. T». Anterior Supoi ior Spini'. ('. Crest of Pulifs. 1). Coiitre of Poupart's Liganieiit. !'. I'oupart's Ligament. U. Rectus Abdominis. '■. Deep Epigastrii'. Ii. Obliterated Ifypogastric. Internal Abdominal Ring. External Abdominal " Ring." 1. 2. C. A. D. Hesselbach's Triangle. C. A. E. Part covered by tlie "Conjoined Tendon." 1'). A. D. Part not covered by tliat Tendon. The Inguinal Canal.—'J'his is an oblique opening through the anterior abdominal wall, and is directed downwards and inwards, lying parallel with and a little aliove the inner half of Puupakt'h ligament. It commences at the internal abdominal ring, and ends at the external ring, and is about an inch and a half to two inches in length. Thn external abdominal ring is oval or triangular in shape, directed upwards and outwards; the base is formed by the crest of the pubis, and the lateral boundaries are known as the842 Applied Anatomy: 'pillarp. of the ring (Fig. 186, 2). The upper, or internal, pillar or columu consists of a flattened part of the tendon of the external ohlique, passing downwards to he fixed to the front of the symphysis jxihis; the lower, or external, pillar is chiefly formed hy the inner end of Poupart's ligament, and is thicker and more rounded than the other pillar, and is attached to the spine of the puhes. At the upper part of the ring there are some fibres seen passing in a transverse direction, and these are called the inter-columnar fibres. Poupart's ligament is attached internally to the spine of the puhes, and also into the pectineal line forming Gimbernat's ligament, and is to he regarded as part of the insertion of the external ohlique; a part, however, of its tendon of insertion, springing from the pectineal line and pubic crest, passes behind the internal pillar of the ring, and decussates in the linea alba with the tendon of the opposite side, forming the " triangular fascia." The ring transmits the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female. The internal ring is an opening in the fascia transversalis, and is situated about half an inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament (a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine.—Cunningham.) (Fig. 186, 1). Boundaries of the Canal.—In Front—(1) The external oblique (throughout its Avhole length); (2) the internal obhque (for its outer third); (3) the cremaster muscle. Behind—(1) The fascia transversalis (throughout its whole length); (2) the con- joined tendon (for its inner third); (3) the triangular fascia; and (4) the deep epigastric artery. The floor is formed by Poupart's ligament, and the roof by the free arched lower border of the transversalis muscle. The Descent of the Testicles.—The testicles are originally situated in the abdominal cavity, below the kidneys and behind the peritoneum; but before birth they pass down into the scrotum. Up to about the end of the sixth month of ftntal life they are found below the kidney, at the posterior part of the abdominal wall; but as the process of development becomes more and more complete, they gradually descend, so that, by the seventli niontli, they are situated behind the internal abdominal ring. During the eic^hth month they pass through the canal, and by the end of the343 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. ninth month they have reached the bottom of the scrotnm. The means Ly which this descent is effected is rather obscure, and was formerly believed to be due to the contraction of certain muscular bands—the " gubernaculum testis"—which piloted the testicles into their proper haven, but is now commonly believed to be the result of a general process of development. In some mammals— e. (J., the elephant—the testes remain permanently Avithin the abdomen, and in the rodentia they only descend at each " rutting " season. Sometimes the testicles in the human subject are retained in the abdomen, and then they are very frequently imperfectly developed; this condition is known as cryptorchismiis. A process of peritoneum — the processus vaginalis — passes down into the scrotum, and precedes the testicle by some time in its descent; and as the testicle originally lies behind the peritoneum, and still retains this position in its descent, both layers of this pouch of peritoneum necessarily lie in front of the testicle. But, as the te.sticle passes down it receives certain coverings from the layers of muscle and fascia forming the anterior abdominal wall: thus it receives—(1) The inter-columnar or external spermatic fascia (sometimes called the "fascia propria" of Camper) from the external oblique, as it passes between the pillars of the ring; (2) the cremasteric muscle or fascia, continuous with the internal oblique; (3) the infundihuliform or funnel-shaped fascia, from the fascia transversalis (also called the internal spermatic fascia). The transversalis muscle gives no covering to it, as the free arched border of the muscle is too high, the testicle passing through below it. All these coverings are continued over the testicle as it lies in the scrotum. The pouch of peritoneum, preceding the testicle, at first communicates with the peritoneal cavity; but a little time before birth its narrow neck becomes closed, while the nnobliterated lower end forms the tunica vaginalis, which is in this way entirely .shut off from the abdominal cavity (Fig. 187). This complete obliteration of the tunica vaginalis is peculiar to the human species, probably on account of the erect attitude. In the female foetus an analogous pouch of peritoneum descends for a .short distance along the round ligament of the uterus, and is known as the canal of Nuck. Occasionally the ovaries are prolapsed into this canal, being an attempt, apparently, to imitate344 Applied Anatomy: the " descent of the testicles" in tlie male subject. We liave described the descent of tlie testicle at this point, because one form of inguinal hernia takes exactly the same course, and receives similar coverings. In some cases the descent is incomplete, or the testicle is misplaced. It must first be sought for in the inguinal canal, then in the iliac fossa close to Poupart's ligament, and, lastly, in the permasum or crural canal. A misplaced testicle is more apt to become inflamed, or the seat of malignant disease, than a testicle in its proper place. Fig. 187. Normal Condition of the Processus Vaginalis in the Adult. Peritoneal Cavity. Oblitemted Vnghial Process. Cavity of Tuuicri Vaginalis. Testicle DIRECT AND OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. The Oblique.—This form is named oblique, or indirect, from the direction it takes, i:)assing through the oblique inguinal canal; it is also called external from its relation to the deep epigastric artery, which lies to its inner side. It is most common in young males. It takes the same course as the testicle did—that is, it enters at the internal abdominal ring, passes through the whole length of the canal, and escapes by the external ring into the scrotum; it passes through that part of the triangular space concerned in inguinal hernia that lies to the outer side of the epigastric artery, and whose structure has already been described (see Fig. 18G). The hernia visually passes down in front of the cord, between the cord and its coverings; its neck lies above Poupart's ligament, and internal to the spine of the pubes. The spine of the pubes and the external abdominal "ring" can be best felt in the male by iuvaginating tlie scrotum with the pohit .of the fingey &nd then passing it up in front of the cord. TheSurgical, Medical, and Operative 345 oblique variety of inguinal hernia often attains a large size, as, wlien once begun, there is but little resistance to its groAvth. The coverings of this form of hernia are—(1) The skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) inter-columnar fascia; (4) cremasteric fascia or muscle; (o) infundibuliform fascia; (6) the extra-peritoneal fat; and (7) the peritoneal sac. The "fascia propria" of the hernia is the united extra-peritoneal fat and the fascia transversalis, and immediately invests the sac. The sac, as here seen from the outside, may be recognised by its rough, and bluish appearance; it is not smooth and glistening. Direct Hernia.—It is called direct, from the direction it takes; it is also called internal, from its relation to the deep epigastric artery, Avhich lies to its outer side. This form does not pass through the Avhole length of the inguinal canal, but escapes from the abdomen through that part of the triangular space concerned in inguinal hernia, known as Hesselbach's triangle (the boundaries of Avhich, and a description of the structures forming the abdominal Avail at that point, have already—see Fig. 186—been described), enters the inguinal canal, pushing the conjoined tendon before it (unless, as is sometimes the case, the conjoined tendon is small, and does not fill up all the triangle in question), passes through the loAver part of the canal, and escapes by the external abdominal ring. The testicle is placed behind the hernia. It is probably oftenest met AA'ith in elderly men, and rarely attains a large size, but usually forms a small globular tumour, just above the crest of tlie pubes, as the resistance to its groAvth is considerable. The coverings in this form of hernia are almost the same as in the oblique form; the only difference being that, instead of reading " cremasteric fascia or muscle," as in the oblique variety, read " conjoined tendon." This tendon, as Ave have said, is the tendon of the conjoined internal obliijuo and the transversalis muscles; but, as the transversalis muscle gives no covering to any form of inguinal hernia, it may simply be read in place of the cremasteric muscle, Avhich is continuous Avith the internal oblique: in other respects the coverings of the two forms are exactly the same. Rut as already indicated tliere are two forms of direct Hernia. Tlie obliterated hypogastric artery passes across IIes.skUiAcii's triangle, dividing it into two parts (see Fig. 186, h)—(«) In theApplied Anatomy: 346 most common form of direct hernia, the gut leaves the abdomen internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, and therefore passes through the conjoined tendon. (6) In the second, the hernia passes between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the deep epigastric (see Pig. 186), but altogether external to the former structure, and therefore has no covering from the conjoined tendon, the coverings in this case being practically the same as in the ordinary oblique form. On the inner surface of the abdominal wall in this situation certain ridges are found—in the middle line is the uraclms, and then on each side of this we find ridges formed by the obliterated hypogastric and the deep ej)igastric artery. By means of these ridges little peritoneal fossfe are formed, called " digital fosste," because they look like indentations caused by the tips of the fingers—one external to the deep epigastric artery, another between that vessel and the obliterated hypogastric, and a third internal to this latter structure. These fossaa indicate a local ivealmess in the abdominal wall, and this, combined with some exciting cause, explains the frequency of hernia in these situations. Were the walls of the abdominal cavity equally strong in all situations there could be no reason why it should occur in one situation more than in another. In practice, it is extremely difiicult, and often impos- sible, to distinguish between the oblique and the direct forms; because in the oblique form the internal abdominal ring is apt to be drawn towards the middle line, more especially if the hernia be of long standing. The diagnosis would not be important were it not for the different relations of the two forms to the deep epi- gastric artery—the oblique being external and the direct internal to that vessel; and this might have an influence in determining the direction of the incision in the operation for strangulated hernia, it being necessary to cut from the artery—or, at least, not to cut towards it. But, from the difficulty in diagnosis above indi- cated, the best rule is, in every case, to cut upwards and sliglitly inwards, parallel with the deep epigastric artery; by this moans the artery escapes injury. When recent and of small size, it may be possible to distinguish between the oblique and the direct forms by reducing the hernia and then asking the patient to cough, when, in the oblictue form, the protrusion of the gut will be felt at the internal abdominal ring, and in the direct immediatelySurgical, Medical, and Operative. 347 behind the external ahdominal ring. It may be possible also, at first, to observe the oblique neck of the tumour in the one case, but not in the other. The great causes of hernia in old men are chronic constipation, bronchitis, and dysuria. The deep epigastric artery in the normal condition, as we have already stated, almost bisects the triangular space concerned in inguinal hernia—passing from near the middle of the base (Poupaut's ligament) to its apex, which is formed by the meeting of the horizontal line with the linea alba (see Fig. 186). The Seat of Strangulation may either be—(1) Due to the neck of the sac becoming thickened and constricted by plastic deposit, and its subsequent organisation and contraction—this is the most common cause; (2) by the inter-columnar fascia; or (3) by the transversalis fascia; (4) by the ravelling of the contents among each other—e.g., a kink of bowel through a hole in the omentum ; (5) during some strain, a fresh loof) may pass into the neck of an already full sac, or past a partially descended testicle; and (6) occasionally by the body of the sac. STRANGULATION. Operation for Strangulated Inguinal Hernia. — The operation for the relief of this condition in hernia of any kind is often called Kelotomy or Herniotomy. The objects of the operation, as in all cases of a similar nature, are—(1) To divide the constricting struc- ture, and (2) to perform the radical cure at tlie same time—viz., to tie the neck of the sac flush with the interior of the abdomen, and mat the rest of it together by several catgut sutures, or else cut it off altogether, and then bring the walls of the canal together by catgut sutures, leaving enough room below the lowest suture for the passage of the spermatic cord. In all cases of hernia, the usual rule is, when in doubt, operate, and never let the patient vomit three times before operating. Of course, one must never operate, against the patient's will, for tins condition or any other; as otliei'wise, slinuld tlie patient recover, he or she may liring an action for assault against the burgeon, and claim heavy damages. Such is the ingratitude of human nature ! Tliere are two forms of operation—{a) Tlie extra-peritoneal, where the sac of the hernia is not opened, the constricting cause being divided outside the neck.Applied Anatomy: 348 and the bowel afterwards reduced. This form, as a rule, is to be aovided, for the usual constricting cause is the thickened and contracted neck of the sac itself; and besides, the contents might be ravelled amongst each other, or the bowel gangrenous. It may be used in cases where the symptoms of strangulation are not very marked, and where the hernia has only been doAvn for say less than thirty hours. "Where the state of the bowel is doubtful, where there has been much vomiting, and where the parts are tender on pressure, the sac should be opened. {IS) The peritoneal method, where the sac is opened. This is the best method, and no bad results are likely to follow the opening of the sac, with the present improved methods of ojDcrating and treating wounds; and, further, the true condition of the hernia can be thus readily seen, and the contents examined. In the former method, a feeling of doubt and insecurity must always exist as to the condition of the hernia. The instruments required are—A sharp scalpel, a probe-pointed bistoury, dissecting forceps, directors straight and curved, Spence's hernia director (Fig. 188), a hernia knife (Fig. 189), catch forceps, retractors, scissors, ligatures and needles, silver wire, razor, sponges, chloroform, a half grain morphia suppository, antisej)tic dressings, etc. The patient's bladder is to be emptied, and the parts must be previously shaved and soaked with some antiseptic solution. He is laid on his back, with his shoulders somewhat raised, and the knee of the affected side slightly bent over a pillow; no more of his body should be uncovered than is absolutely necessary. The spray being turned on, an incision of suflicient length is made over the neck of the sac, obliquely downwards and inwards, the centre of the incision corresponding to the external abdominal ring. To make the incision, the skin is pinched up at right angles to the line of incision, at each side of the proposed site, between the fingers and thumbs of an assistant, or the Surgeon may take one side, and the assistant the other; the Surgeon then transfixes this fold, the back of tlie knife being towards the hernia, the knife being then made to cut its way out. When the parts recover their normal position, a linear incision is left, and the divided superficial external pudic seen and secured at once by a pair of forceps. The dissection is then carried carefully down through tlic various layers of tissue, allSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 349 bleeding vessels being at once tied ov twisted. As the Surgeon approaches the sac, the different layers must, in all cases of doubt, Fig. 188. Fig. 189. Spence's Hernia Director. Hernia Knife. be opened in the same way as the sheath uf an artery is opened ; Spuxce's liernia director is then slipped in, and the layer slit open350 Applied Anatomy: by a probe-pointed bistoury. The sac is known by its rounded tense appearance, filamentous character, and by the arborescent arrangement of vessels on its surface; it is bluish in appearance, and it may be possible to see fluid and the intestines through it. It may be difficult to distinguish the fascia propria from the sac, but in all cases of doubt, open as if it were the sac. The gut wall is smooth and polished, probably congested, but has no arborescent vascular network; but should the sac be opened inadvertently, as a rule, a sudden jet of fluid will escape, and the doughy, granular omentum protrude. To distinguish the fascia propria from the sac—The fascia jaropria is prolonged indefinitely upwards on the sweUing, heiiKj continuous with the margins of the aperture through which the hernia protrudes; whereas, when the sac is fairly exposed, the sharp defined margins of the aperture can readily be felt. The greatest difficulty is most likely to be met with in femoral hernia. When the fascia propria is not divided, the tip of the finger cannot be made to enter the abdomen; when it is divided, the nail can be inserted under the sharp margin of the ring. The sac in femoral and in. all small hernia; should be opened at its loLver part, because in this position there is usually some fluid which protects the bowel from injury; in large herniie the neclc of the sac must be oj^ened. If the sac is not very tense, take it between the finger and thumb and displace the contents, and then pinch a small part up by the forceps, and divide it with the edge of the scalpel, held horizontally; a director is then introduced, and the opening enlarged by a probe-pointed bistoury, and then each side of the opened sac seized by a pair of Wells's forceps. If the fluid is clear and transparent, or slightly yellowish, like serum, and communicates no Ijad odour to the finger, the prognosis is good, as it indicates that the inflammation has not been of very long standing or severe; the gut will probably be found deep red and glistening. >Some hours later the fluid is dark-bro^vn in colour, the gut purple, but still glistening. Still later the fluid resembles a strong infusion of cofl'ee, the gut is purple or black, and the glisteji lost; it has a sodden appearance, like wet parchment, or is ash-grey in colour. When the fluid has a very bad odour, it probably indicates gangrene, and the prognosis is bad; should351 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. bubbles of gas escape, it indicates perforation or putrefaction. In dividing tlie constriction, the director may be used to divide tlie tight margin, but for the deeper parts of the stricture the finger is the best and safest director; it is passed up into the sac (the left index finger) and the nail slipped under the tight edge of the constricting band; the hernia knife is then passed along its jjalmar surface, lying flat upon it, till it is passed through the constriction, and has the cutting edge opposite that point. The blade is then turned for about a quarter of a circle, with its edge pointing in the proper direction, and the sharp edge of the constriction is in this way notched, and the finger is then passed into the abdomen to feel that all is clear. The contents must now be examined. The gut is pulled down a little way, and the part where the compression was applied, and the gut immediately above it, carefully examined; it may either be at once returned or left in the wound. After reducing the gut, put the finger up the canal, to make sure that the gut is in the abdominal cao'dij. The colour is of little conse- quence, provided the natural gloss of the gut is not lost, and as long as this glisten remains the gut may be put back into the abdomen; if in doubt, relieve the constriction, and let the gut lie in the wound. If it has an ashy-grey, softened look, and the glistening appearance gone, then it must not be put back, but must be left in the wound; and in doubtful cases return it just within the ring, keeping the doubtful part opposite the wound, ami leave the wound open. Recent adhesions may be torn through, old ones ligatured, if necessary, and cut. The Omentum may be either returned, or left in the sac, to plug up the orifice, or ligatured, and a part cut ofi', according to its condition and size. The neck of the sac is then to be separated well up into the internal ring, and tied flush Avith the interior of the abdomen, and the walls of tlie canal draAvn together by catgut sutures. The wound is then closed, and a catgut drain or small tube iiitruduced at its lower angle, and a guod broad antiseptic dressing applied, with plenty of wool, and the Avhole steadied by a domett spica. Tlie patient is then put to bed and kept warm, and a dose of opium administered, cither by the mouth, hypo- dermically, or per rectum (one-half grain morphia suppository).352 Applied Anatomy: Tor thirst and vomitiug, give liim ice to suck: the food most consist of milk, arrowroot, and beef-tea. He must not be purged, but the bowels left to act of themselves, or at the most a castor oil and gruel enema given; even though many days pass one must not be anxious. "When the bowels have acted spontaneously, then the patient may be regarded as convalescent. Accidents of the operation are—Wound of the gut, or wound of some of the vessels near the openings. The operation is some- times followed by peritonitis. Reduction en masse or en bloc.—By this is meant the return of the hernia, sac and all, bodily behind the abdominal parietes, within the internal ring, still in a state of strangulation, or, in any case, the external protrusion made to disappear somewhere, whether into the abdomen or not. Properly speaking, it is said to be pushed into the extra-peritoneal tissue, or between the fascia transversalis and the muscles. But it probably also includes other conditions, as cases where the bowel bursts through a hole in the neck of the sac, but the hernia is still strangulated by the mouth of the sac. Mr Bryant says it can only occur in a femoral hernia. Reduction en bissac. — In some cases an intra - parietal sac exists as a diverticulum from the ordinary sac, and the hernia is displaced into it instead of into the abdomen; this only occurs in congenital forms of hernia. After the gut has been apparently reduced, the Symptoms of Strangulation may still persist. Causes—(1) It may have been reduced en masse, but in this case there will have been no gurgle on reduction, the canal is open, and neither sac nor tumour to be felt. (2) A strangulation may have existed within the sac while taxis only overcame the external strangulating cause—e.g., a kink of bowel through a hole in the omentum. (3) The nipped segment of gut remains in a state of j^aralysis from acute inflammation— " laming of the bowel." (4) Reduction en hissac, or the sac may have been hour-glass-shaped, one part in and the other outside the abdomen, and the gut is simply displaced from the one to the other. (5) A second strangulated hernia may exist at some other aperture. (6) The gut may have ruptiu-ed and set up acute peritonitis; or (7) acute peritonitis may have been set up without upture of the sac. (8) Other forms of displaced hernia—(a) Wliero353 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the neck of the sac is detached from the internal ring, and the hernia thus pushed up beneath the abdominal wall, the gut being still strangulated by the narrow mouth of the sac; and (i) where the sac and the gut escape into the subserous fatty tissue, but still strangulated. Two courses are open to the Surgeon—either to cut down upon the canal, and see what has gone wrong, or else perform laparotomy, having made sure of the absence of a second hernia and peritonitis. It is probably better to open the canal in the inguinal region, as the Surgeon can then perform the radical cure, as well as relieve existing constrictions and adhesions. In cases of reduction en hloc, the late Professor Spence taught that if the hernia could be brought down again by coughing, it could not be an example of that condition. Mr Bryant states that of the four forms of displaced hernia—(1) reduction en masse, (2) detachment of the sac and peritoneum from the internal ring, (3) cases Avhere the sac bursts, and (4) reduction eri bissac,—the first two may be reduced, forced down again by coughing, and re-reduced frequently. It is most difficult to be c[uite sure, but absence of the sudden jerk as the hernia is reduced, and the return of the symptoms of strangulation after the effect of the chloroform has passed off, should put the Surgeon on his guard, and will warrant him in cutting down on the hernial canal and exploring. This is better than opening the abdomen, because (1) Ave can with more certainty and greater ease find the constricted hernia, (2) judge of its fitness for reduction or otherwise, and (3) when actually gangrenous, or doubtful, it can be dealt with more satis- factorily than when the abdomen is opened in the middle line. The late Professor Spence, however, distingnished two varieties of reduction en hloc or en masse. The true reduction " en hloc" where it is reduced completely within the abdominal parietes, and no effort, such as coughing or sneezing, can make it re-appear, because the sac, with its contents, no longer corresponds to the opening or axis of the canal, as it is pressed aside and the body flexed on the neck, altogether out of the line of the canal. The other kind, to which, I think, he rather applied the term reduction "en masse" is where the hernia is partially jiushed back, with the constriction unrelieved, but where the liernial sac and contents still lie in the line of the canal—the fundus still occupying the354 Applied Anatomy: upper opening of the canal, and the body still corresponding to its axis. In this case a cough or sneeze may easily cause the hernia to come " down with a bolt en masse." This is most apt to happen in small recent femoral, whether reducing by taxis, or by the extra-peritoneal method of operation, unless care be taken to first empty the sac of its contents, and not push both back together. This test of Spence's is also diagnostic in cases where an internal strangulation exists, coincident Avith a reducible hernia; the hernia can easily be made to reappear in this case, and shows that the jDersistence of the symptoms must be due to something else than the hernia. Taxis in Inguinal Hernia.—In the operation of taxis—that is, reducing the hernia by manipulation—the jjarts shoidd be relaxed as much as possible; and for this purpose the shoulders should be raised and the lower extremities flexed at the hip and knee and adducted. By this means the fascia lata, which is attached to Poupart's ligament, is slackened, and, of course, Poupart's liga- ment itself, and in this way also the walls of the canal are relaxed. The bladder should be emptied to increase the capacity of the abdominal cavity, and the patient should be made to keep his mouth open and breathe freely, to relax the diaphragm and lessen intra-abdominal pressure; furtlier, the pelvis should be a little higher than the abdomen, so that the weight of the intestines may help to pull in the protruded gut. The neck of the hernia should be steadied with one hand, while pressure is made in the direction of the canal with the other, with gentle lateral motion, if need be. By gentle compression for a long time the venous and serous contents are emptied out, which will also be aided by raising the sac. Taxis must not be carried out too vigorously or for too long a period, if the constriction does not yield. In children, it is important to remember that the canal is not oblique. The principal Adjuvants to Taxis are—(1) A large enema, (2) cold, and (3) chloroform. An enema is useful by exciting peristalsis, as well as probably lessening the total contents of the abdomen. Cold must only be used for a short time in recent hernite, but never if there is any suspicion of gangrene; it calms and relieves the local irritation and congestion, causes the vessels to contract, and coirdenses gases, thereby lessoning the bulk of theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 355 protruded part. The greatest adjuvant of all, however, is chloroform, but before giving it, gain the patient's consent to an operation, if necessary; this -will save much valuable time, as otherwise it will be necessary to allow him to recover consciousness. RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA. 1. A Truss.—Professor Chiene strongly insists that a properly- fitting and properly-worn truss ought to be a racUeal cure, instead of a palliative measure, as it is usually called. If the bowel is prevented from ever again passing down, by pressure of sufficient amount and at the same time properly directed, nature will do the rest. The canal has a natural tendency to contract and close, and it is only the occasional passage of the gut that prevents it, just as the occasional passage of a bougie prevents the closure of a urethral stricture. A properly applied and properly fitting truss constantly worn, most nearly approaches Nature's method of cure. The pressure must be applied directly to the canal and the internal abdominal ring, and must be just of sufficient amount to keep up the hernia; if it be too powerful, it will induce atrophy of the walls of the canal. Pressure over the external ring merely prevents tlie hernia passing into the scrotum. All that is wanted is to allow the neck of the sac to close; this is specially the case in children, where the natural tendency to close is very marked. The pressure must not be nipple-shaped, but fat, or rather, corresponding to the curve of the abdominal wall, so as to keep the walls in contact throughout their whole extent. The pad must be as large as possible, provided it does not press upon the spine of the pubes, for then the hernia would slip out beneath it, nor must it interfere with the flexion of the hip joint, lest the thigh, when flexed, push up the pad. It should be light, firm, and elastic, and well fitted; reachj-made trusses are an unmixed evil. It must pass round tlie boni/ pelvis, and yet be out of reach of the effects of contraction of the glutei. It must be worn night and day, or, at night, a properly applied clastic spica, with cotton wool below it, may be used if the truss is uncomfortable, but the truss must be put on before the patient gets out of bed in the morning, or even before ho assumes tlie sitting posture; a special gum-elastic truss must be worn when taking a bath. The objection to the constant use of356 Applicd A natomy: a truss is that tlie continuous pressure causes atrophy of the walls of the canal; some, therefore, advise that it should be taken off during tlie evening or night, to make the pressure intermittent. In almost every case, and certainly always in children, a double- headed truss should be used. Femoral hernia is the worst to manage, as it is very difhcult, or almost impossible, to press on the neck of the sac; in these cases an " opposite-sided" truss (Salmon & Ody), or Spence's triangular pad, must be used. In fitting a truss on a cliUd, remember that the canal is not oblique, but straight in above the crest of the pubes. If the truss allows the hernia to slip through beneath it, instead of being a safeguard, it is an additional source of danger. Unless the truss fits well and keeps up the hernia, the patient is far safer without it. Measurements and Directions to be sent to the Instrument Maker in regard to a Truss.—It is better always to send the patient, if possible, both to be measured and to get it " fitted on" afterwards. If this be inconvenient, or impossible, then (1) take the circumference of the body one inch below the iliac crests, or midway between the great trochanter and the anterior superior iliac spine, the tape being carried from the lower lumbar spines, and then sloping down to the symphysis pubis. Instrument makers state that this is sufficient for single or double-headed spiral trusses, and for the double-headed Salmon & Ody truss. For the single-headed spiral truss, however, it is probably also as well to send (2) the dis- tance between the anterior superior spine and the hernial orifice. (3) State whether the hernia is single or double, and if single, whether it is on the right or left side. (4) State the nature of the hernia, whether inguinal or femoral, and give some idea of its size. (5) Take a rigid cast of one or both sides of the pelvis by means of a strip of lead, or a flattened gas-pipe; and if this cast cannot be sent as it is, then take a full-sized outline of it on a sheet of paper and send that. This is of great value, because it shows the shape of the pelvis, whether it is flattened or rounded; and if the cast can be sent it will also show the requisite amount of spiral or bevel to give the spring. (6) Lastly, send a rough sketch, showing the hernial orifices, pubic spine, Poupart's ligament, and the anterior superior iliac spine, and mark upon it the exact place where the pad should press.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 357 In the single-headed Salmon & Ody ("opposite-sided truss"), in addition to the total circumference of the body, send also the distance between the spines of the vertebraj and the hernial orifice, tlie tape being carried round the o^jposite side of the pelvis. The patient should be told (1) that the truss must be ■worn constantly; (2) that it must always be adjusted while he is in the recumbent position; (3) that he should have a duplicate truss, in case of accident, or for repairs; and (4) that he should have a special bathing truss. In infants, one of the best and most effective of trusses for inguinal hernia is an ordinary skein of worsted, twenty-two inches long, and consisting of twenty threads. The end passing round the side opposite from the hernia is held at the seat of the hernia, while the other end is passed through the loop at this point, is then made to encircle the thigh, from before backwards, upwards, and outwards, and is then fastened to the Avaist part. To Test the Truss.—The patient should sit on the edge of a chair, with his legs widely apart, his body bent forwards, and then cough forcibly. 2. Wood's Operation for Inguinal Hernia (188.5).—Mr Wood thus describes the operation:—The instruments required are— (1) A tenotomy knife; (2) a semi-circular needle, mounted on a stout handle, flattened at the eye, with a sharp point and blunt shoulders, formed so as to slip along the front of the curved forefinger; with (.3) about a foot of tendon, or wire, as thick as stout twine. The patient is laid on his back Avitli his shoulders raised. The scrotum and pubes are shaved and cleaned with carbolic lotion, and all other ordinary antiseptic precautions are taken. The hernia being reduced, a small incision, about three- quarters of an inch long, is made with the tenotomy knife over the cord, and parallel with it, just below the pubic crest. This is carried down to tlie sac, any bleeding vessel being secured as it is cut. Tlie finger is then passed into the canal, as far as the internal ring, carrying the sac invaginated before it. At the inner side the conjoined tendon can be felt and the finger passed behind it. The needle is then carried along the finger until its point can be felt behind the conjoined tendon, through whicli it is pushed so as to project beneath the skin. The integuments are then drawn wellApplied Anatomy: 358 over to the inner side and the needle pushed through the skiu. The needle is then threaded with the tendon suture, or, if wire be used, a bend at the end of it is hooked on. The needle is then witlidrawn at the scrotal wound and the suture detached, leaving about six inches projecting from the puncture in the abdominal wall. The finger is then passed behind Poupart's ligament, the spermatic cord felt for and pushed aside. The point of the finger is then carried close to the ligament, along the groove of the outer pillar of the external ring, to a point oj^posite the internal ring; the needle is then passed through the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and, by drawing the skin well outwards, is made to appear at the puncture already made. The end of the suture which is projecting from the puncture is then attached to the needle, which is drawn out at the scrotal wound. There is thus a loop left projecting at the puncture on the abdominal wall, and two free ends from the scrotal wound. The needle is then carried from the scrotal wound across, behind the sac, between it and the cord, the latter being isolated and dra\Tn backwards with the finger and thumb of the left hand while the needle is being passed, as in the operation for varicocele. The end of the suture, which passes through the conjoined tendon, is then attached to the eye of the needle, and drawn through between the cord and the sac. If the hernia be large and the ring wide, the needle is now to be passed agam from the scrotal wound through the end of Poupabt's ligament, just above the pubic spine, and then carried through the inner pillar of the ring and the triangidar fascia close to the os pubis, at the edge of the rectus muscle. The outer edge of the suture, that passing through the outer pillar of the ring, is then connected with the needle and drawn across, so as to lace up the canal like a boot. If a tendon suture is used, the ends are now drawn firmly downwards at the scrotal wound, by which the loop projecting at tlie puncture in the abdominal wall will be drawn in beneath the slviu. The free ends are then secured firmly by a reef-knot, cut short, and buried in the wound. A short drainage tube is then inserted, reaching to the external ring, and an antiseptic dressing applied. If all goes well the wound heals by first intention, and the tendon suture is gradually absorbed.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 369 If a wire is used a loop is loft at tlie puncture in the abdominal wall; the lower ends are twisted down into the scrotal aperture, the upper loop drawn upon so as to tighten the wire, and held firm by two or three twists down into the puncture, The bight of the upper loop is then bent downwards to meet the ends bent upwards; these are curved into the form of a hook to fasten on the loop. A firm pad of lint is placed on the sliin under the arch thus formed, and a broad spica bandage secures the whole. No drainage is required. The wire is removed in a week or ten days. The lower end is first untwisted and the ends stretched to take out the spiral twist, and then cut short. Traction on the loop will then usually bring the wire out in one piece, but if there is any difficulty, the loop must be untwisted and the two pieces removed separately. This operation is said to be best fitted for cases of recent hernia in young healthy subjects. 3. Spanton's Method.—He closes the canal by screwing in, from above downwards, an instrument closely resembling an ordinary corkscrew, after invaginating a portion of the sub- cutaneous tissue of the scrotum and sac, as in "Wood's method, the finger in the canal protecting the cord. It is left in from seven to ten days. The weak point of this method is that the sac is not removed. 4. At the present time, however, the operations for the radical cm-e usually include Ligature of the Neck of the Sac, flush with the interior of the abdomen, as the principal part of the operation. The sac may then be cut oti', and the ligatured opening allowed to slip back into the abdomen; the walls of the canal and the external ring are then drawn together by silver wire, silk, or catgut sutures, taking care to leave snfficient room at the lower part for the cord to pass without compression. The above should always form part of any operation for the relief of strangulated or irreducible hernia. The hernia is exposed, the sac opened, the contents reduced, the neck of the sac freed and tied up as high as possible, and then the sides of the ring and inguinal canal stitched together. Should the sac be left, and the wound be kept aseptic, a drainage tube will not be required, as the serous membrane will absorb all that is necessary to be got rid of; but even when it is cut off, the proximity of the tunica vaginalis of the testicle will also perform the function ofApplied Anatomy: 3G0 a drainage tube, always provided, of course, that the wound be aseptic. Professor Annandale passes a drainage tube tbrougb the bottora of the scrotal tissues. This operation was first performed by Professor Annandale, in the beginning of 1872, in a case of strangulated femoral hernia. The method he then used was to expose the sac, open it, reduce the hernia, separate the sac as high up as the internal opening, and tie it with strong catgut as close to the general peritoneal cavity as possible. The ligatured sac was then fixed by catgut sutures at the abdominal orifice of the canal, to act as a plug. The rest of the sac below this was removed. ^Nearly every Surgeon performs this operation in a slightly different way. Professor Chiene transfixes the neck of the sac as high up as possible, with a long double ligature of strong catgut, and then ties it in two halves. The two halves are then tied together, and Avlien this is done there are four free ends—two on the inner, and two on the outer side; these ends are then used as stitches for drawing the walls of the canal together — thus matting canal, sac, and all into one mass, which effectually plugs up the aperture in question. Two of the ends are used to fix the ligatured sac in position, the other two are used to bring the walls of the canal together, and after this the two pairs of ends are tied together. In this way there is a triple obstacle to a future hernia—(1) The ligatured sac, (2) the ligatured end plugging the upper opening of the canal, and (3) the matting of the walls of the canal together. Mr Ball isolates the sac, grasps its neck with a broad pair of catch forceps, and twists it by four or five revolutions of the forceps, and then ties it as high up as possible. ]\rr Barker, after freeing the neck of the sac, passes a double ligature round it, and ties it in two places, and then divides it between tlie ligatures. The upper part is then pulled up, by means of sutures, to plug the internal opening; the lower part of the sac is not removed. By this means the risk of sloughing or other injury of the testicle is avoided. The operation, in one of its many forms, where the neck of tlie sac is tied, is to be preferred to the older and more complicated operations, for various reasons :—(1) Its ease of performance;Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 301 (2) the greater permanency of the cure; (3) it gets rid of the sac, which is the chief cause of tlie persistency of any hernia; (4) it resembles more closely Nature's method of cure, by closing the sac aud canal, not corking them; (5) it restores the abdomen to its natural condition, merely leaving a dimple or scar, which tends to disappear, at the site of the internal ring^—so that if hernia is reproduced, the new hernia has all the work of sac formation to do over again. Dr Macewen, instead of leaving a dimple, aims at making a projection over the internal ring. It is doubtful if any form of " radical" cure will be constantly and always " radical;" it is always better and safer to wear a liglit well-fitting truss. The advantage of an operation is, that it will make the truss certain of keeping up the hernia. The radical cure may be required for—(1) Irreducible hernia, because the patient is in constant danger, for (a) it may become inflamed, (6) it may become obstructed, and (c) it may become strangiilated; the operation is performed therefore to save the patient from these risks. (2) In reducible hernia that cannot be kept up by a truss. The operation in this case is easier, because the hernia is first reduced and kept in the abdomen, while the sac is exposed and opened, without the risk of wounding the contents of the hernia. (3) For strangulated hernia, because the same incision does for both operations—relief of strangulation and the performance of the radical cure. For the first two conditions, the time of operation may be chosen; and one should therefore see that the health of the patient is good, esjiecially that there is no acute cough, from any cause. Antiseptic precautions are specially important in this operation. RESUME of tlie operation for .sti-mgulated hernia, with the radical cure :— 1. The patient is laid on his back, his shoulders raised somewhat, and the knee of the affected side bent over a pillow. Empty the bladder, shave and wash the seat of the operation. 2. An incision of sufficient length is made over the neck of the sac, by pinching up the skin and subcutaneous362 Applied Anatomy: tissue at riglit angles to the line of incision, and trans- fixing it, with the back of the knife towards the sac; secure the superficial external pudic artery. In cases of gangrene, or where the parts are much matted by inflammatory action, this method cannot be followed, and one must dissect carefully downwards in the usual manner. 3. Now divide the aponeurosis of the external oblique by opening it at the lower part, and then extending the incision to the full extent of the skin Avound, by a probe- pointed bistoury, througli the inter-columnar fascia. ■4. Next open the cremasteric fascia, by raising it mth a pair of dissecting forceps, making a small opening in it, as if it were the sheath of an artery; then introduce a flat director, and slit it and the edge of the internal oblique open. 5. The "fascia jpropria^' is now exposed and must be treated in the same way, but very carefully, as it immediately overlies and envelops the sac, and has almost the same shape as the sac, more especially in femoral hernia. 6. The sac must now be isolated; if small, the entire sac may be freed; but if large, the neck only may be cleared; and, in any case, any extra-peritoneal con- striction should be divided if possible; if not, the sac should be opened and the constriction divided from within. 7. To open the sac, pinch up a part of its wall between the finger and thumb, when it will be possible to rub the opposed surfaces together, or feel if there is anything gliding under the supposed sac; then raise a small point between the finger and thumb or by the dissect- ing forceps, and cut a small part of it horizontally, and then enlarge upwards and downwards on a flat director. When the hernia is small, the sac should be opened at the lower part, as there is usually a small collection of fluid there which protects the gut; in large hernia, open over the neck of the sac. In reducible herniaSnrg^ical, Medical, and Operative. 363 and incarcerated non-strangulated hernia there is no Huid in the sac. When the sac is opened some fluid usually escapes, and it is customary to smell this fluid, as it will indicate to some extent the state of the gut. The gut will be recognised by its smooth glistening appearance and transverse ramifying arteries. 8. Introduce the director and notch the tight margin with the bistoury, its edge being directed upwards; with- draw the director, introduce tlie finger and divide the deeper part of the constriction, with the finger as guide, keeping the edge of the knife in the same direction as before. 9. Disengage the gut, draw it gently down, so that the constricted point, and especially the part immediately above it, can be examined and its fitness for reduction judged of. The principal points to note are, the colour, gloss, and smell; the most important is the gloss; if this is lost, the prognosis is grave. If in doubt, having divided the constriction, leave the gut opposite the wound; if not, reduce it, following it with the finger right mto the abdominal cavity, so as to make sure that it is properly reduced. 10. After this, separate the neck of the sac, as high in the canal as possible; shoidd the hernia be congenital, this will be difficult, as it practically forms part of the spermatic cord. 11. Tie the neck of the sac, with "fascia 2jroj)ria" round it, high up, flush with the interior of the abdomen, with strong catgut ligature. The part belo'sv the ligature may or may not be removed. 12. Lastly, stitch the walls of the canal together with catgut, but leaving enough room for the cord to pass below without being compressed; stitch the external wound, introduce a drainage tube, and dress. It will be observed, therefore, that, from a Surgeon's point of view, there are but five structures to divide, viz. — (1) Skin and fascia, (2) external oblique, (3) cremasteric fascia, (4) "fascia propria," and (5) sac.364 Applied A natomy: MACEWEN'S OPERATION. Preparation of the Parts prior to tlie Operation. — Before operating, the hair of the pi;bes and neighbouring parts is closely Fig. 190. Macewen's Needles. IS'eeJles, Ki'^lit and Left, used in operation for Kadical Cure of Heruia. Tlie handle and blade are continuous, being made from one piece of steel.365 Surgical, Medical, and Operative, shaved; tlie skin is washed with soap and water, a nail brush being emj^loyed for this purpose. After drying, turpentine is smeared over the parts to remove any grease which may remain, a little methylated spirit clearing away the turpentine, and leaving the skin in a good condition for operating. The parts are then Fig. 191. Site of Incision. The Dark Line shows Site of Incision, exposing External Opening of Inguinal Canal. covered with a portion of lint, saturated with an antiseptic solution, until the patient is placed under the influence of an anajsthetic. When the patient has been anaesthetised, the limb on the side of the hernia is flexed at the knee by a pillow, which is placed under the latter. An assistant, whose duty it is to retract the parts, stands at the opposite side of the Surgeon.Applied Anatomy: 366 Hernia Needles (Fig. 190).—The needles found to be most use- ful for the insertion of the stitch into the inguinal canal are figured here, one being used for passing the thread from right to left, the other from left to right. They are serviceable for many other pur- poses, sucii as for inserting sutures through broad ovarian pedicles, Fig. 192. Separating the Peritoneum. or through masses of omentum which are about to be removed. Wood's needle might, however, be employed for all the sutures, except the double one introduced into the conjoint tendon. Operation.—After having reduced tlie bowel, make an incision sufficient to expose the external abdominal ring (Fig. 191).867 Surgical, Medical, and Operative, An exploration of tlie sac and its contents is then made, and the finser introduced tlirougli the canal examines the abdominal asi^ects of the internal ring and the relative position of the epigastric artery. The operation may then he divided into two parts, the one relating to the establishment of a pad on the abdominal aspects of the internal ring, the other to the closure of the incruinal canal. The steps of the operation are as follows :— 1. The Formation of a Pad on the Abdominal Surface of the Circumference of the Internal Ring.—(a) Free and elevate the distal extremity of the sac, preserving along with it any adipose tissue that may be adherent to it; when this is done pull down Fig. 193. Treatment of Sac. The Sac transfixed and drawn into a Series of Folds. the sac, and, while maintaining tension upon it, introduce the index finger into the inguinal canal, separating the sac from the cord and from the parietes of the canal. (&) Insert the index finger outside the sac till it reaches the internal ring; there separate with its tip the peritoneum for about half-an-iucli round the whole abdominal aspects of the circumference of the ring (Fig. 192). (r) A stitch is secured firmly to the distal extremity of the sac. The end of the thread is then passed in a proximal direction several times through the sac, so that when jjulled ujion, the sac becomes folded upon itself like a curtain (Fig. 193). The free end of this stitch, threaded on a hernia needle, is introduced through the canal to the abdominal aspeft of the fascia368 Applied Anatomy: transversalis, and tliere penetrates the anterior abdominal wall, about an incb above the upper border of the internal ring. The wound in the skin is pulled upwards, so as to allow the point of the needle to project through the abdominal muscles without penetrating the skin (Fig. 194). Fig. 194. Thread introduced to pull up Sac. The Hernia Needle carrying tlie Thread from the upper portion of the Sac through the Abdominal j\Iascles from behind forward, about an inch above the Internal King. The thread is relieved from the extremity of the needle, when the latter is withdrawn. Tlie thread is pulled through the abdominal wall, and when traction is made upon it, the sac, wrinkling upon itself, is thrown into a series of folds, its distal (extremity being drawn furthest backwards and upwards. AnSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 369 assistant maintains traction upon the stitcli nntil the introduction of the sntures into the inguinal canal, and when this is completed, the end of the stitch is secured by introducing its free extremity several times through the superficial layers of the external oblique muscles. A pad of peritoneum is thus placed upon the abdominal side of the internal opening, where, owing to the abdominal aspect of the circumference of the internal ring having been refreshed, new adhesions may form (Fig. 195). 2. Closure of the Inguinal Canal.—The sac having been returned into the abdomen and secured to the abdominal circum- ference of the ring, this aperture is closed in front of it in the following manner:—The finger is introduced into the canal, and lies Fig. 195. Sac in New Position. Pad covering Abdominal Aspect of Internal Ring. between the inner and lower borders of the internal ring, in front of and above the cord. It makes out the position of the epigastric artery, so as to avoid it. The threaded hernia needle is then introduced, and, guided by the index finger, is made to penetrate the conjoint tendon in two places; first, from without inwards, near the lower border of the conjoint tendon; second, from within outwards, as high up as possible on the inner aspects of the canal. This double penetration of the conjoint tendon is accomplished by a single .screw-like turn of the instrument (Fig. 196). One single thread is then withdrawn from the point of the needle by the index finger, and when this is accomplished, the needle, along with the other extremity of the thread, is removed. The conjoint tendon 2 AApplied A natomy: 370 is tlierefore penetrated twice by this thread, and a loop left on its abdominal aspect (Fig. 197). Secondly, the other hernia needle, threaded with that portion of the stitch which comes from the loAver border of the conjoint Fig. 196. Conjoint Tendon. The threaded Hernia Needle making douljle penetration of Conjoint Tendon. tendon, guided by the index finger in the inguinal canal, is introduced from within outwards, through Poupart's ligament, which it penetrates at a point on a level with the lower stitch in the conjoint tendon (Fig. 198). Tlie needle is then completely freed from the thread and withdrawn.371 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Thirdly, the needle is now threaded with tliut j^ortion of the catgnt which protrudes from the upper border of the conjoint tendon, and is introduced from within outwards through the transversalis and internal oblique muscles, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, at a level corresponding with that of the Fig. 197. Loop in Conjoint Tendon. upper stitch in the conjoint tendon. It is then quite freed from the thread and withdrawn (Fig. 199). There are now two free ends of the suture on the outer surface of the external oblitpio, and these are continuous with the loop on the alidoTuinal aspect of the conjoint tendon. To comploto372 Applied Anatomy: the suture, the two free ends are drawn tightly together and tied in a reef-knot. This unites firmly the internal ring. In order to avoid compression of the cord, Avhich might lead to serious embarrassment and sloughing or ultimate atrophy of Fig. 198. External Pillar. Thread from Lower Border of Conjoint Tendon being carried through Outer PilUu' of Internal Eing. tlie testicle, it ought to be examined before tightening each stitch. The cord ought to lie behind and below the sutures, and be freely movable in the canal. It is advisable to introduce all the necessary sutures before tightening any of them. AVlien this373 Surgical, Medical, ami Operative. is done, they iniglit all Lc cxpcrimeutally dmwii tight, and maiutiiinod so, whilcj the oi^crator's Hnger is introduced into the canal to ascertain the result. If satisfactory, they are then tied, beginning with the one at the internal ring, and taking up in Fig. 199. Thread Ready for Tying. Ill Figures 192, 194, 196, 197, 198, nnd 199, tlic Skin ami Ci'lluliU' Ti.s.suc is reflected in a flap, and tlie K.\teniitl Oliliinic is opened up in such a way as to expose the interior of the Canal and the Internal Ring. order any others which may have been introduced. In the great majority of cases the stitcli in the internal ring is all that is rccjuired. During the operation the skin is retracted I'roni side to siilo, to bring the parts into view, and to enable the stitches to be li.xcd374 Applied Anatomy: subeutaueously. When the retraction is relieved, the skin falls into its normal position, the wound being opposite the external ring. The operation is therefore partly subcutaneous. When the canal has been brought together, a decalcified chicken-bone drainage tube is placed with its one extremity next the external ring, the other projecting just beyond the lower border of the external wound. A few chromic gut sutures are then introduced along the line of skin incision. Dressing the Wound.—Iodoform is dusted over the wound, tlie interstices of the scrotum, and its junction with the thigh. A sublimated wood-Avool pad is applied, held in position by an aseptic bandage. As a rule, a portion of elastic webbing is placed over the margins of the j)ad to secure it firmly. As the patient is laid in bed, a pillow is placed under his knees, while his shoulders are slightly raised, so as to relax the tissues about the canal. After Treatment.—The rectal temperature is taken night and morning, and at the same time the dressings are inspected. The dressings are left undisturbed from fourteen to twenty-one days, unless they are previously stained or the temperature is abnormally high. On their removal at the end of that period, the wound is found healed, the extremity of the decalcified drainage tube which l^rojected beyond the margin of the skin is seen to lie loose on the dressings along with the external portion of the majority of the superficial stitches. A fresh pad is applied to maintain pressure over the part. From four to six weeks after the operation the patient is allowed to rise from bed, but he is not permitted to work until the end of the eighth week. He is further advised not to lift heavy weights until the end of the third month at the verj' earliest. Adults engaged in laborious occupations are advised to wear a bandage and pad as a precautionary measure. Those who are not so engaged are not required to wear a belt except when of very lax habit. All are recommended not to over-strain themselves. In the majority of cliildren (six to fourteen years) the closure is so complete and firm that further treatment by pad or belt is (juite unnecessary. In Congenital Inguinal Hernia the sac is first isolated from the cord. As this structure is generally intimately connected with the posterior surface of the sac, often by close organicSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 375 adhesion, the sac should be divided lougitudinally by two parallel iiicisiuus, one on each side of the cord, and the latter permitted to lie behind clear of the sac. The isolated sac should then be divided transversely about an inch above the testicle. The lower part is formed into a tunica vaginalis. The upper is pulled down as far as possible, and dealt with quite as the sac of an acij^uired hernia, additional precautions being necessary to clear the cord at the internal abdominal ring. It is freed of its connections, and placed as a pad on the abdominal aspect of the circumference of the internal ring (Fig. 200). On one occasion a separate tube was formed for the cord out of tlie sac, but this has not been repeated. In congenital inguinal hernia it has been advised that the testicle should be ablated. On two occasions this has been done —once Avhen the testicle was injured by a blow received prior to admission, and once when that organ was aM'ectcd by cystic degeneration. In both instances the absolute firmness and rigidity of the abdominal wall which resulted, taken along Avith tlie ease of the procedure, explains the desire for ablation of the testicle in congenital hernia evidenced by the advocates of this method. Fig. 200. Congenital Inguinal Herina. Manuur of trciitiiig tlie Sac in Congenital Inguinal Hernia.876 Applied Anatomy: OTHER VARIETIES OF INGUINAL HERNIA. 1. Congenital, or hernia in the sac of the tunica vaginalis; the tcndencij is congenital, not the disease. The hernia in this case lies inside the tunica vaginalis, and therefore in contact with, and completely enveloping, the testicle, so that that organ cannot ho distinctly felt, separate from the tumour; it is always ohliquc, and takes the same course as the testicle. It is always suddenly produced as the sac is pre-formed, extending into the scrotum at once; and further, the neck is very long and narrow, passing up into the abdomen obliquely. This form of hernia is often found along with congenital j^himosis, preputial adhesions, or a very narrow meatus; it is therefore necessary to attend to these points Fig. 201. Condition of the Processus Vaginalis In Congenital Hernia, first, and it is a good plan alwai/s to examine tlic child's penis in cases of hernia, and for many other diseased conditions, such as apparent hip disease. Always examine the scrotum also, to liiul out whether both testicles are down. The possibility of its occur- ence is due to the fact that the process of peritoneum (2)rorc>isns LXKjinalis), which passes down before the testicle into the scrotum, has not become obliterated, as in the normal condition, but remains open (Fig. 201) and thus serves as a medium of communication between the general cavity of the peritoneum and the tunica vaginalis, through Avhich the congenital hernia descends. It is very apt to be strangulated, as the neck is long and narrow, Avith a tendency to become longer and narroAver, and when it isSurgical, Medical, and Operative. slmiigulatod, the prognosis is serious; tlie operalion licre admits of no delay. In operating on this variety, two things must be kept in mind—(1) that there is no sac apart from the tunica vagiuaHs, and (2) the close relation of the constituents of the cord to the tunica and its narrow neck; these two j^oiuts make it very difhcult to obliterate the ueck of the sac. In relieving sti'angidation, which is so common and so serious in this variety, Fig. 202. Condition of the Processus Vaginalis Predisposing to the Infantile and Encysted Forms of Hernia. Peritoneal Cavity. .Unoblitcratod Part of the Vaginal Process. .Testicle. Abdominal Cavitj-. Xew Sac. Tunica \'.igiiialis. Testicle. the ichole hmgtli of the canal, from its scrotal to its abdominal end, must be divided, as the strangulation here is due to a process of condensation, elongation, and increasing obliquity, which this canal naturally undergoes (Spenck). 2. Infantile Hernia (Hey).—The hernia in tliis case, with its new sac, passes down behind the unobliterated tunica vaginalis, and is due to the fact that the iirdcessus rwiinalis is only obliterated Fig. 203. Infantile Hernia.Applied Anatomy: 878 at the internal abdominal rin^f (Fig. 202), and the gut passes down behind the large tunica vaginalis (Fig. 203). Should strangulation occiir in this form, in the operation for its relief, the Surgeon Avill have to pass through hotli layers of the tunica vaginalis before he reaches the neck of the sac, and the layer forming the anterior wall of the sac before he reaches the hernia, or three layers in all. Fig. 204. Encysted Hernia. -•Abdouiiiial Cavity. .New .Sac. uTuiiica Vaginalis. .Testicle. Fig. 205. Condition of the Processus Vaginalis In Funicular Hernia. )^ KbdiOmmaX Cavity. Uuoblitei-ated Part of the Vaginal Process. Cavity uf the Tunica Vaginalis, x-i Testicle. 3. Encysted Hernia (Sir Astley Cooper).—This is where the sac is invaginated into the unobliterated vaginal process, and not behind it, as in infantile (Fig. 204). Note.—Hernia in infants, especiuUi/ 'when the gut is empty, is said to he occasionally translucent, Just like hydrocele. 4. Hernia into the Funicular Process.—In this case the •processus vaginalis is only obliterated close to the testicle, leavingSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 379 the whole upper part open (Fig. 205), into which the gut descends. The hernia only extends to the Uyi) of the testicle and does not envelop it; it is always oblique and suddenly produced. There is another congenital malformation of the processus vaginalis—viz., where the entire canal remains open, but an annular constriction of its walls takes place somewhere between the external abdominal ring and the testicle. In this condition we may get what is called an " Hour-glass Hernia." In the female there is a jDrocess of peritoneum that passes down along the round ligament, corresponding to the processus vaginalis of the male, and is known as the Canal of Nuck; from the presence of this structure, the female child is very frequently the subject of congenital inguinal hernia. It may also occur in the adult female as well; the inguinal canal in the female is slightly longer than in the male. The contents of the hernial sac vary. If it consist of the intestine alone, it is called an Enterocele; it is resonant on per- cussion, smooth and elastic, and gurgles on manipulation, from tlie mixture of air and fluid. It is usually some part of the small intestine, most frequently the ileum; sometimes the caput ctecum of the large. Hernia of the omentiim is called Epiplocele; it is didl on percussion, firm, lobulated, and doughy, and there is no gurgle on manipidation; and the impulse on coughing may be very slight or absent. Hernia of both intestine and omentum together, is called an Entero - Epiplocele; the symptoms are a mixture of the two previous forms.Applied Anatomy: 380 CHAPTER XJ. THE ABDOMEN—f(7on^«me(0- FEMORAL HERNIA. IL will be well at this point to say a word or two about the anterior j^art of the fascia lata of the thigh and the saphenous opening. The fascia consists of (1) an iliac part, lying external to the saphenous opening, and (2) a puhic part, lying internal to the same opening. The iliac part is attached to the crest of the ilium, anterior superior spine, Poupart'.s ligament, and tlie pectineal line, and becomes continuous below with the pubic part. From tlie pectineal line and spine of the pubes it is reflected down, forming the superior cornu and the falciform process of the saphenous opeiiing. The i:)uhic part is attached above to the i:)cctineal line, and internally to the margin of the pubic arch; it passes beneath the sheath of the femoral vessels, binding do^vn the psoas and iliacus muscles, and is then lost on the capsule of the hip joint. At the lower part it becomes continuous with the iliac part, and at the point where tlie two meet they form the inferior cornu of the saphenous opening. The iliac part thus passes in front of the femoral vessels, w-hile the pubic part passes heliind them, and between the two is the saphenous opening. This is an oval ojiening at tlie upper and inner part of the thigh, just below the inner end of Poupakt's ligament, and internal to the line of the femoral vessels, and is produced by the above splitting and folding of the fascia lata of the thigh. It is directed obliquely downwards, forwards, and iuAvards; its length is an inch and a half, and its width about half an inch. Its lower margin is M-ell defined, and is called the inferior cornu; its upper margin, the (superior cornu/ its outer edge, the falciform process of Bunxs; its inner edge, ho\vever, is ill defined, and lies, as we have seen,881 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. on a plane posterior to the outer edge, passing behind the femoral vessels. The mjtcrior cortm touches Poupart's ligament and is situated about midway between the spine of the pubes and the femoral vessels. There is a strong band of fibres passing between the superior cornu of the falciform border of the saphenous opening, and Guibernat's ligament; it arches over the femoral artery, and is known as the femoral ligament of Hey. This so called opening, however, in the recent state, is covered by the cribriform or sieve-like fascia—this fascia being perforated by a large number of lymphatic vessels, and the long saphenous vein, hence the name. If the fascia lata and the cribriform fascia be reflected, Wx^ femoral sheath is exjjosed (see Fig. 159); the anterior part of this sheath is a continuation of the fascia transversalis Fig. 206. Formation of the Femoral Sheath. F;isoia Trausvorsalis i lining the abdominal wall, and passing down beneath Poupart's ligament; the posterior part of the sheath is a continuation of the fascia iliaca, also from the abdomen (Fig. 206). On the anterior part of this sheath there are a few thickened transverse bands of fascia just below Poupart's ligament, which are called the "cZefip miral arch" (the "stqjerfcial crural arch" being Poupart's ligament). The femoral or crural sheath is funnel-shaped, being too wide just beneath Poupart's ligament, but closely adherent to the vessels about one inch below the saphenous opening; it is divided into three compartments, by septa passing from the anterior to the posterior wall—the external contains the femoral artery, the midflle the femoral vein, while the inner contains and is closed by condensed areolar tissue, a lymphatic gland, and some lymphatic ,•<_..Fascia Iliaca. Fouioral Sheatli.Applied Anatomy: 382 vessels and fat,—the whole mass being called the septum crurale, and the compartment containing them the crural canal. This canal is, therefore, situated between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the crural sheath. It extends from the crural ring to the upper part of the saphenous opening, and is about half-an-inch in length. Boundaries of the Canal.— Anterior wall, the fascia trans- versalis, Poupart's ligament, and the falciform process of the fascia lata; posterior wall, the iliac fascia and the pubic part of the fascia lata; outer wall, the fibrous septum covering the inner side of the vein; the inner wall, the inner side of the femoral sheath. Boundaries of the Crurai Ring.—In front, Poupart's ligament, and deep crural arch; behind, the body of the pubes, covered by the pectineus and the fascia iliaca; on the inner side, the sharp border of Gimbernat's ligament, conjoined tendon, and fascia transversalis; on the outer side, the femoral vein, covered by its sheath. Femoral hernia is more common in women—(1) Because the distance between the iliac and pubic spines is greater, and Gimbernat's ligament is smaller, and for these reasons the femoral ring is larger; and (2) from changes in the abdominal viscera during pregnancy. The long diameter of the hernia is transverse, not vertical, as in inguinal. The coverings of this form of hernia are—(1) The skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) cribriform fascia; (4) the femoral sheath; (5) crural septum, which is equivalent to the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue and fat; and (6) the peritoneum (Fig. 207). The fascia propria is the anterior part of the crural sheath fused with the septum crurale, and therefore immediately invests the sac; to distinguish between the sac and fascia propria (see vol. ii., page 350). In reducing femoral hernia by taxis, it is necessary (1) to bear in mind the course of the hernia, and (2) to put the limb in such a position that the falciform process of the saphenous opening will be relaxed. The hernia enters the crural ring, passes down the crural canal, till it is checked by the adhesion of the sheath to the femoral vessels, and then passes forwards and escapes by the saphenous opening—at first passing downwards and forwards, andStirgical, Medical, and Operative. Fig, 207. Course and Coverings of Femoral Hernia. (After Heath.) Extra-peritoneal Fat Femoral Sheath Fascia Transversali Peritoneum. '--..Fascia Iliaca. Symphysis Pubis. Cribrifona Fascia. Subcutaneous Tissue.. Skin ^ The aiTow indicates the course of the Hernia. Fig. 208. An Ordinary Fatty Tumour. Skin and Fascia . Septum Crurale , Femoral Sheath ... Cribriform Fascia.. / Fatty Turnour -.Peritoneum. . .Extra-peritoneal Fat. —-Symphysis Pubis. T.iniour not fixed below, but fr.dy movabh; i„ tlie Subcutanoous Tissuo.Applied Anato7ny: 884 then upwards; and, therefore, in applying pressure, it must be directed downwards, backwards, and upwards; and to relax the falciform margin of the saphenous opening, the thigh must be flexed on the abdomen, adducted, and rotated inwards. The hernia is directed upwards on account of the close attachment of the superficial fascia to the lower margin of the saphenous opening, which thus prevents its further descent. The fact that there is greater friction and pressure on the upper surface, from Poupart's ligament, will also direct it upwards, and perhaps also the flexing of the thigh will press in the same direction. The seat of stricture in femoral hernia is usually the sharp edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Femoral enterocele must be distinguished from three forms of fatty swelling in this region—(a) a subcutaneous lipoma (Fig. 208), (&) hernia of septum crurale ("fatty hernia") (Fig. 209), and (c) epiplocele (Fig. 210). The two latter are tethered on their deep surface, an ordinary fatty tumour is freely movable in the tissues. Occasionally, however, a "fatty hernia" may become detached from the extra-peritoneal fat and be engrafted on to the tissues in its new position, and grow there, closely resembling an ordinary fatty tumour. It must also be diagnosed from an enlarged gland with inflammation around it; here the fixing on the deep surface is not at one point, but is more general and all round the gland, with prohahly thickening and adhesion of the skin over it. The gland in the femoral canal may thus enlarge and come forwards; of com-se, an inflamed gland might be phis a hernia at the same time. If the bowels move with castor oil, and there is no vomiting, it is not likely to be a strangulated hernia. Operation for Strangulated Femoral Hernia.—The superficial structures are divided by a vertical or a T-shaped incision. Tlie vertical limb of the incision is made over the neck of the tumour; it may be two or three inches long, and its centre must correspond to the upper part of the saphenous opening. The horizontal limb is made parallel with Poupart's ligament, and immediately below it. Whether the T-shaped or a vertical incision be used, it is better to make it as far as 2)ossiUe from the genital organs, compatible with the object in view; it will thus be more easily kept aseptic. The various coverings are carefully divided till the sac is reached; and the finger is then passed along the canal till the stricture is found,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 385 Fig. 209. " Fatty Hernia." Hkiu and Fa.scia .. Fascia Lata. ^ Peritoneum. ..Extra-peiitoneal Fat. fiynipliysis Pubis. Cribrilbrni Fascia... The " Fatty Ileniia" Femoral Sheath .... This mass is tctlieiod ou its deep surfauc. The "Sac" of this Ueriiia is the Feiuoral Sliuatli. Fig. 210. Femoral Epiplocele. Skill and Fascia Fascia Lata Cribrifonn Fascia, Oincntuin Fcinnral .Sheath Pciituiiouni. Kxtra-peritoueal Fat. liyunihy.sis Pvibis. Tills mass is also tethered uu its deep siiifacc.^^86 Applied Anatomy'. which is relieved by cutting cautiously upwards and inwards,* so as to notch or divide both Gimbisrnat's and Hey's ligaments; if this cannot be accomplished by the extra-peritoneal method, the sac must be opened at the lomar part and the stricture divided from within it. The section is made in this direction not only for the reason given above, but for other reasons : thus, if the section were made outwards, the femoral vein is in danger; if upwards and out- wards, the epigastric artery; and if directly upwards, the spermatic Fig. 211. Vessels near Crural Ring—Normal. Deep Epigastric Pubic Branch of the Deep Epigastric.. Symjihysis Pubis ... Pubic Branch uf Obtm-ator External Iliac Ai-tery. Extemal lliiic Vein. G. Ginibcrnat's Ligament. C. Crural King. U. Obturalur Artery. cord might be cut. The great danger is in the possible abnormal origin of the obturator artery, which may come in the Avay of the inward incision; try if possible to feel the pulsation before cutting, and if the pulsation be felt, blunt the edge of the knife, which will even then easily cut the tense fascia, but wUl displace the artery before it. The blood-vessels near the crural ring (Fig. 211) luider normal conditions are—(1) The femoral vein, to its outer side; (2) the deep epigastric artery, to the front and outer side of the * It be noticed that I have said to cut upwanls and inwards in both femoral and inguinal hernia; this simplifies matters, and is really the proper direction in both eases; but, of course, upwards \n inguinal, and inwards h\ femoral does perfectly well.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 3S7 • opeuiug; and (3) the pubic brauuL of the deep epigastric, also in front, and passing inwards over it. Tlie obturator artery usually arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac artery, and escapes froiu the pelvis by the uppei- part of the obturator foramen; but this artery sometimes arises from the deep epigastric, and when it does so, it is usually the pubic branch very much enlarged. In order to reach the obturator foramen, it may pass in either of two ilirections—(1) It may pass down close to the vein, and external to the crural ring (Fig. 212), in one out of every four cases (Woou); or (2) it may arch over the crural ruig, and descend internal to it Fig. 212. Aberrant Obturator—Non-dangerous Variety. .^Puupart's Ligament. ,Exteni:il Iliuc Artery. Extenuil lliau Vein. G. Giiiiborimt s Liguiiieiit. C. t'rural Ring. (Fig. 213), in about one out of every eighty cases. It is in this latter variety that the danger exists, because in cutting inwards on Gimueknat's ligament, the vessel is also apt to be divided or wounded; but, fortunately, this variety of abnormal distribution of the artery is not very common, and this is all the more fortunate because it is impossible to foresee or avoid the accident. In the diagnosis between this form of hernia and the inguinal form, it is well to remember that the neck of the sac in femoral hernia is situated below Poupaut's ligament, and external to the spine of the pubes; whereas in inguinal hernia the neck of the sac is above Poupaut's ligament, and internal to the pubic spine.Applied Anatomy, 3SS To find the spine of the pubes, in the female, aLduct the tliigh, make the adductor longus tense, and mn the linger along the tense edge oi' the muscle, ^vhicll Avill guide to the projection in question, as the muscle is inserted just below it; in males, the wamc plan may be adopted, but it is usiuxUy found by pushing the Ibretinger into the bottom of the scrotum and up along tlie cord to the external abdominal ring, when it can easily be made out whether the SAVclling occupies that opening or not. Fig. 213. Aberrant Obturator—Dangerous Variety. Doci) Kiiiguslni--.., Pubis .. Obtuv;it..r l'ouii;ii-t's Ligixuiuut. Kxtonial Iliac Artery. External Iliac Vein. Ci. Giuiboriiat's Ligament. C. Cnu-al lUiig. In perfornung the radical cure in a case of femoral hernia, one must remember the presence of the femoral vein on the outer side of the crural ring and canal; indeed this constitutes the difhculty of the operation. ?*Ir Wow, after tying the neck of the sac, removuig the protruding part, and allowing the stump to slip into the abdomen, relaxes the parts by position, puslies the femoral vein out of the way (protecting it with the fluger), and stitches the pubic portion of the fascia lata to Poupart's ligament by tM'o or three sutures. Other operators also tic the neck of theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 389 sac flusli with the iuterior of the abdomen, and out off the pro- truding part, leaving the stump to plug up the opening, or stitch it to Gimbernat's hgament; or it may be entirely reduced into tlie abdomen, and the various fascial structures about the open- in" stitched together. Tlius tlie inferior cornu of Gi.mbernat's ligament, or the fascia covering the pidiic bone may be stitched obliquely to Poupart's ligament, or the pubic part of the fascia lata may be stitched to the same structure. The chief points of the operation are (1) to get rid of the sac, and (2) take care of the femoral vein. Tiie obliteration of the canal is brought about by—(1) Leaving an omental stump to plug up the crural ring, (2) tying the neck of the sac, and (3) stitching the resistant tissues together outside, over the canal—e.g., the pubic part of the fascia lata to Poupart's ligament. Table contrasting the equivalent Coverings of the three chief forms of Hernia:— OblicLue Inguinal. Direct Inguinal. Femoral. 1. Extra-ppritonealfiit. 1. Extra-peritoneal fat. 1. Septum crurale. 2. Fascia tvansversalis, 2. Fascia transversalis. 2. Femoral slieatli. or infinidiliulifonn fascia. 3. Cremaster muscle, ill 3. Conjoint tendon of 3.' series with internal trausvcrsalis and oblique. internal olilirpie. -Cribriform fascia. 4. Inter - columnar, or 4. Inter - columnar, or 4. .spermatic fascia. spermatic fa.scia. .'i. Superficial fascia. 5. Superficial fascia. 5. Superficial fascia. G. Skin. 6. Skin. 6. Skin. Littre's Strangulated Hernia.—In this case only a of the circumference of the bowel is involved. It is usually femoral, sometimes obturator, and, as a rule, occurs in women. Cloquet's Hernia.—When the hernia passes beliind tlie femoral vessels and rests in tlie i)ectineus muscle. Laugier's Hernia.—AVhen the hernia passes through Gimbernat's ligament.Applied Anatomy: 390 Obturator Hernia.—This is a rare form, and very often is not detected during life: it usually occurs in women. It may be possible to feel it per vaginam, or per rectum, and it causes a slight fullness, or actual tumour, or it may be only an increased sense of resistance and tenderness on pressure, at the inner and upper part of Scarpa's triangle, deep among the adductors and to the inner side of the femoral vessels. When strangulated, the obturator nerve is pressed on, and there is pain down the inner side of the tliigh and at the knee joint, especially on eversion of the thigh, and it may therefore simulate hip-joint disease. In likely cases it will be justifiable to incise and explore; the incision should be parallel with the femoral artery, and on the adductor longus muscle. The fascia lata and pectineus muscle must be divided. The coverings of an obturator hernia are—skin, superficial fascia, fascia lata, pectineus, fascia covering the obturator externus, the obturator externus itself, extra-peritoneal fat, and then comes the sac of the hernia. The pelvic fascia does not give it a covering, as the opening through which the hernia comes is above the upper edge of the parietal pelvic fascia. In dividing the constriction, the edge of the knife must be directed downicards, because the artery is usually above. Umbilical Hernia (Omphalocele or Exomphalos).—This form •—"starting of the navel"—is not uncommon in children; in the adult, it is more usually ventral, and not exactly at the umbilicus. It occurs in stout-bellied people usually, and comes through some of the fibrous septa, such as the linea semilunaris, or lineas trans- versfe, but very rarely at the umbilicus. It is supposed that the apertures through which the vessels or pellets of fat pass, cause the local weakness, necessary for the production of any form of hernia. It usually forms a large tumour, which rapidly becomes irreducible from omental adhesions. In the child, the coverings are often very thin, consisting of little else than the integument of the umbilical cord—the contents consist for the most part of bowel; in the adult the coverings are thicker, consisting of in- tegument and deep fascia, tranversalis fascia, and sac. UmbiHcal hernia (or ventral), in the adult, has a great tendency to become incarcerated, but very little tendency to strangulation, as the open- ing is usually large, and there is practically no neck to the sar. In the child the opening readily closes, if the bowel be kept in391 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. tho abdomen for a few months by a broad flat pad; in the child, tliis form of hernia never strangulates, and never canses death. Should it become strangulated in the adult, it is always at the lower part of the hernia, Avhere it is sharply bent over the fascial apertm-e from its own weight; as the contents are usually omentum and jejunum, the effects of strangulation are very serious, as it is so high up and so near the great solar plexus. Operations are not very successful or safe in this form of hernia, probably from the proximity to the great nervous plexuses, and the peritoneal sac, the adhesion of the bowel to the sac; and the fact that the bowels are apt to protrude during the operation, from the great intra- abdominal pressure, considerably embarrass the operator. It is only to be imdertaken when no other means can give relief. Formerly the patients often succumbed to septic peritonitis; now-a-days this risk is gi-eatly diminished. Hence, if reducible and a pad can keep it in, do not operate; and, even though irreducible, do not operate iinless there is pain and well-marked signs of strangulation. For the radical cure, the " neck " of the sac is tied, and the projecting part cut off; after this, the stump may be left to plug up the opening, as Mr Banks does; or the most resisting tendinous structures at the sides of the opening, as the fascia transversalis, may be freshened and stitched closely together, as after an ordinary laparotomy. When a hernia in this region consists of omentum, it may be necessary, just as in the femoral region, to distinguish it from a fatty tumour, and an outgrowth of the extra-peritoneal fat. In Lipoma, the mass is perfectly movable in the belly-wall; is not, and never has been reducible, and has no impulse on coughing. The extra-peritoneal fat is fixed on its deep aspect to the belly- wall, is not reducible, and has no impulse on coughing. Epiplocele is also fixed to the belly-wall, but is or has once been reducible, and has an expansile impulse on coughing. One must, in all cases of hernia, distinguish between a true impulse, which fills out and expands the tumour on all sides and indicates its communication with the abdominal cavity, and a mere thrust forwards—^just as in the case of a true aneurism and a tumour over an artery. In hernia of the csecum and bladder (Cystnceln), the sac is absent or only partial, as the normal peritoneal covering is only partial; for this reason these hernije are practically alM'ays irreducible.Applied Anatomy: 392 Ventral Hernia.—By tliis is meant a hernia tliroiigli any part of the abdominal wall, except the inguinal, the femoral, or the i;mbilical apertures. The treatment and the radical cure are the same as in umbilical hernia. Lumbar Hernia.—Here the gut escapes through the "triangle of Petit," either by piercing the structures forming the floor, or by pushing them before it. This triangle is bounded by the latissimus dorsi behind, the external oblique in front, and the highest point (about the middle third) of the iliac crest below; the floor is formed by the internal oblique and the fascia lumborum. A lunrbar hernia may follow in the track of an old lumbar abscess, and may be mistaken for an abscess, especially if there be traces of a jDrevious abscess at the part, and at the same time the spine is stiff and rigid; under such circumstances one is very apt to think that it is a recrudescence of the old disease, and that the swelling is a collection of pus, and plunge a knife into it. If the swelling be a hernia, this of course is a serious mistake; and before opening any abscess in this region it is well to percuss the swelling—if intestine, it will be resonant; but if an abscess, dull on percussion. In operating on a case of lumbar hernia, after getting rid of the sac, stitch the contiguous margins of the latissimus dorsi and the external oblique with strong catgut. Diapligramatic Hernia.—Varieties—(1) Congenital, the left leaflet of the central tendon being absent; this is the most com- mon variety, and is due to an arrest of development whereby tlie original j^iewo-peritoiteal cavihj has not been completely divided into thorax and abdomen. (2) Where the abdominal viscera pass through one of the naturally deficient parts of the diaphragm, usually just behind the ensiform cartilage, or in front of the vertebrse., occasionally through the oesojihageal opening. (3) Cases where the diaphragm is ruptured by external violence; it is said that rupture of the diaphragm is usually followed by excessive and insatiable thirst. From the presence of the liver, protrusions of abdominal viscera into the thoracic cavity will only occur on the left side. The displaced thoracic viscera may be recognised by percussion and auscultation; the stomach, transverse colon, and oroentuni; are the viscera usually herniated393 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. THE PERINEUM. Dissection of the Perineum. — The Anatomical perineum corresponds to the inferior outlet of the pelvis, and in shape resembles an heraldic lozenge, and has the following boundaries— In front, the symphysis pubis and sub-pubic ligament; laterally, in front, the divergent rami of the pubic arch, and tuberosities of the ischia—behind, the convergent great sacro-sciatic ligaments, overlapped by the glutei maximi muscles ; and behind by the tip of the coccyx. The space is divided into two jDarts by a line passing from the anterior border of one tuberosity of the ischium to the other; tlie posterior division is called the rectal part, and the anterior division the urethral. The Surgical perineum does not extend so far back; it must be regarded as ending at the "central point of the perineum"—the point where the terminal prolongation of the triangular ligament is attached, and where the superficial perineal fascia turns round the transversus perinei muscle to be attached to the base of the triangular ligament; the two transversus perinei muscles, accelerator urinas, and siDhincter ani all meet at this point: it is midway between the anus and the root of the scrotum. All beyond this point is to be regarded as ischio-rectal fossa, or the rectal part of the anatomical perineum. The female perineum is the angular interval left between the rectum (third part) as it passes downwards and backwards, and the vagina as it passes downwards and forwards. The Posterior or Rectal Part.—This part is the same in both sexes, and contains the lower end of tlie rectum and tip of the coccyx ; and on either side there is a space known as the " ischio- rectal fossa." Each space is pyramidal in shape, and has the following boundaries—Its base is formed by the skin and fascia covering it; its apex by the meeting of the outer and inner Avails; the outer wall is the obturator fascia covering the obturator internus muscle, and giving a sheath to the internal pudic artery; the inner wall is the fascia covering the levator ani and external .sphincter niusclcs; the anterior wall is formed by the base of the triangular ligament and transverse perineal muscle; the posterior wall i.s formed by the gluteus maximus, great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the coccygeus muscle.394 Applied Anatomy: The Contents of the space are—(1) Twigs of the small sciatic nerve; (2) the inferior haemorrhoidal nerve; (3) the fourth sacral nerve—to the external sphincter; (4) the superficial perineal nerves; (5) inferior haemorrhoidal vessels; and (G) much loose granular fat, AA'hich forms a movable elastic packing for the rectum. Abscesses may form in this space; and unless they are early and freely opened, they will either burst into the interior of the gut, or spread Avidely upon the nates, being unable to " point" readily at the base of the space on account of the strong fascia covering it. They should also be opened early, because they cause great suffering, both from tension and pressure on the nerves of the space. In opening abscesses of any kind in this region, the knife should be directed so as to cut towards the anus, parallel with the radii of a circle of which the anus is the centre, to avoid, as far as jjossible, division of the vessels and nerves of the space, which radiate towards the anus. Another reason why it should radiate towards the anus is that when the finger is introduced, if it be found to have almost entered the gut, the incision should be extended and the operation for the radical cure of fistula in ano performed. This space is also concerned in the various forms of Fistula in Ano, which frequently arise from abscess in this region; and in tlie complete form of fistula the structures between it and the rectum must be divided, so as to lay the two cavities into one, before a cure can be effected. In this operation the Structures divided are—(1) The integu- mentary coverings, (2) the sphincter ani and wall of the rectimi, (3) fatty tissue, and (4) small blood-vessels and nerves. As the great cause of persistence of this fistula is the constant movement of the parts, the section of the sphincter paralyses this movement, and gives the parts rest. Abscesses in the anal region may also begin just under the skin over the base of the space, or beneath the mucous membrane of the bowel: fistula in ano is sometimes caused by malignant disease of the rectum and tertiary syphilitic ulceration. It is worthy of notice, too, that fistula in ano is very frequently associated with phthisis — perhaps due, in the first instance, to the excessive coughing. In rapidly advancing phthisis, where tlie fistula has a large, ragged orifice and undermined edges,Surgical, Medical, arid Operative. 895 and the local condition is only of secondary consequence, it is probably better not to operate for the cure of the fistula, but rather simply to treat the constitutional cause; but otherwise, phthisis is no objection, as exj)erience shows that getting rid of a suppurating tract has a beneficial effect on the person suffering from phthisis. But, of course, we must make sure that we have got rid of it— that it is soitndhj healed—as otherwise the tubercular matter under pressure will be absorbed and make matters worse; it is possible, therefore, that an open sore is a safeguard, only there is the additional risk from the entrance of septic organisms. These fistulte usually open into the l)0wel from half-an-inch to an inch Fig. 214. Ischio-Rectal Fossa. and a half above the anus, or just above the sphincter, no matter in what part of the fossa the abscess arises. This is because of the anal fascia which coats the levator ani, and which resists the passage of the abscess towards the rectal wall, so that the pus passes down by the side of the fascia, and perforates the rectal wall just above the point where the anal fascia joins it (Fig. 214). An ischio - rectal abscess tends to open both ways—into the gut, and externally. ^Vhen this takes place it is called a complete fistula; when it has only an internal opening, it is called a Uind inlerivd fistula; and when it has an external opening only, it is called a Uind external fistula. The treatment for the incomplete396 Applied Anatomy: forms is to make tliem complete, and then lay the anal and abscess cavities into one. In cases of hsemophilia, the alastic ligature is vised for this purpose. Tlie abscess sometimes burrows round the rectum, in a horse-shoe fashion, before it opens into it. The com- plete form is the most common, and is usually from some irritation in the bowel; the incomplete forms are usually from constitutional causes. Mr Bell says that ischio-rectal abscess and fistula are most common just after the 12th of August, from swallowing grouse bones, which then stick about the rectum, and cause abscess and complete fistiUa. Two early and troublesome signs of fishila are the involuntary passage of flatus at awkward times, and soiling of the linen. The ischio-rectal fossa is also opened into in the operation of lateral lithotomy. Abscesses near the Rectum.—The various forms of abscesses met with in this neighbourhood are:— 1. INIarginal, in the cutaneous folds surrounding the anus, and therefore quite superficial, and probably due to some local cause—e.g., piles. 2. True ischio-rectal abscess, tubercular in nature usually, depending for its origin on the constitutional dyscrasia. A^ery often incomplete, opening into the gut only. It is more difficult to treat, and the prognosis mucli worse than in the purely local forms of abscess and fistida. 3. Abscess internal to tlie sphincters, lying between the muscular and mucous coats of the bowel, and opening into the rectum above the internal sphincter; this usually arises, in healthy men, from some local cause, and is very amenable to treatment when tlie local cause is removed. This form is not in the ischio-rectal fossa at all. tt. Peri-rectal abscess in the cellular tissue surrounding the gut (iieri-^mirAitis). Should it arise above the level of the visceral pelvic fascia, we got a condition corre- sponding to pelvic cellulitis in the female. In the male, such abscesses often spread up along the vas deferens to the inguinal .canal, and there form what is usually known as " Absce.ss of the Cord." Tlioy are397 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. known by the history of the case—signs of inflam- matory feA'cr, with rigorand Avhen the abscess is opened, by the very fetid odour and brownish colour of the pus. The Anterior or Urethral Part.—It will bo well here to say a few words about the triatujular Uijament of the urethra, or deep l)criueal fascia; it is sometimes called the " im>>pcns(irii ligament of the urethra" (IMacleod), or the "urethral ligament" (Chiene). This is a ligament which fills up the pubic arch, and is, therefore, triangular in shape—hence its name; it divides the urethral triangle into superficial and deep parts. The urethra pierces it, but the penis is entirely in front of it, and the bulb lies in contact Avith its anterior surface. The so-called " posterior layer " of the triangular ligament is simply a part of the jjarictal layer of the pelvic fascia attached to tlie posterior lips of the margin of the j^ubic arch, and below to the base of the true triangular ligament. By this means there is a small space enclosed, which is spoken of as the "space between the two layers of the triangidar ligament." In tlie dissection of this part of the perineum, after having reflected the skin, we come to the superficial fascia—in this region it has been divided into a superficial and a deep layer; but these tAvo layers are practically one, only the layer has two distinct surfaces. This fascia is sometimes called the Fascia of Colles. Extravasation of Urine.—This may be caused by a rupture or A\ ound of the urctlira, as falling on a rail with the legs aj^art, a kick in the perineum, retention from a tight stricture, or perineal abscess behind a tight stricture. It may also complicate fracture of the pelvis. In cases of retention from a tight stricture, the mucous membrane ulcerates, ami when the patie:it is straiiung •with great force the urethra suddenly gives way, and the urine is rapidly extravasated; if it ru[)tures in front of the bulb, urine is eiliised into the erectile tissue, and may cause gangrene of tlie penis, bcginjiing in tlic glans. In cases of abscess the pus opens into the urethra, and urine passes into the abscess cavity, and if not o])encd externally will tend to diil'use itself widely in the tissues of the perineum. Tlie fascia concerned in this accident is thus attached—Laterally, it is attached to the margins of the pubic arch, as far back as tlie tuberosities of the ischia—beyondApplied Anatomy: 898 tliis it is firmly blended with the i^iscia lata of the thigh; behind, it Lends round the transverse perineal muscle, and is attached tu the base of the triangular ligament of the urethra; in front, it is i;nattached, and is continuous with the fascia of the scrotum and penis; and in this way a pouch is formed, which is open above,, in the interval between the symphysis pubis and the pubic sjune. From the median line an incomplete septum projects downwards towards the urethra and into the scrotum. From the above attachments, it is evident that the extravasated urine cannot pass backwards into the posterior half of the perineum—that is, the posterior half of the anatomical perineum, or ischio-rectal fossa— because of its attachment to the base of the triangular ligament; nor down the thighs, because of its attachments to the pubic arch and fascia lata of the thigh; but it -will fill the pouch and pass into both sides of the scrotum, and then pass up the front of the abdomen, along the spermatic cord: and even when it has reached the abdomen it is still unable to pass down the thighs, because the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen is firmly attaclied to Poupart's ligament, nor can it pass the linea alba for a like reason. In cases also of " perineal abscess" the pus spreads in this same fascial compartment, and during the acute stage causes great suffering, both because of the dense fascia, and also pi-essure upon the three long scrotal nerves which lie in this " pouch." To treat this condition a free and deep incision should be made in the middle line of the perineum, from the lowest part of the perineal swelling forwards to the root of the scrotum ; some, instead of making a single median incision, make two lateral incisions. Similar incisions must also be made into the scrotum, in the middle line of the abdomen, and along Poui'art's ligament, if necessary, and, in fact, wherever the urine has infiltrated; the fijiger also should be introduced into the incisions and septa broken down, so as to ensure free drainage. Over all place a large charcoal poultice. Thus far in the dissection we have simply removed—(1) The skin; (2) the superficial fascia; and wheii the pouch above men- tioned is opened into, we come to (3) the long scrotal nerves— (c() anterior superficial perineal, {h) posterior superficial perineal,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 2. Superficial perineal viusdes. ((•) the long pudcudcil; (-t) the blood-vessels—{a) the superficial perineal artery, {h) the transverse perineal artery. These structures being reflected, we then expose (5) the superficial muscles of the space, three in number, which form a small triangle (the perineal triangle), the floor of which is formed by the triangular ligament. The muscles are—(«) The accelerator uriuee, lying on the penis; {b) the erector penis, lying on the crus penis; and (c) the traus- versus perinei. When these are removed, (6) the bulb (the dilated posterior part of the corpus spongiosum) and root of the penis are exposed; and if they in turn be removed, (7) the anterior surface of the triangular ligament is exposed. (8) Remove the anterior layer of this ligament, and the structures between its two layers are exposed, viz.—(«) the membranous part of the urethra, surrounded by {h) the compressores urethne (Guthrie's muscle), (c) the artery to the bulb, {d) the internal pudic artery, («) Coavpeu's glands, (/) the pudic nerves, [g) the dorsal vein of the j)enis, and much compact cellular tissue. Reflect these structures and cut through (0) the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, and (10) reflect the levator ani, and the prostate gland is exposed, surrounded by its capsule and the prostatic plexus of veins; and if the rectum be turned aside, (11) the base of the bladder, with the vesicuhe seminales and the vasa deforentia are exposed. There are various structures which pierce the anterior layer (that is, the true trian- gidar ligament) of the triangular ligament, viz.—(1) the urethra, in the median line, one inch below the pubes; (2) the dorsal vein of the penis, also in the median line, half-an-iuch below the pubes; (3) the internal pudic artery; (4) the doi'sal nerve of the penis; and (5) the artery to the bulb—this vessel lies about half-an-inch above the base of the ligament, and an inch and a half in front of tlie anus. Cowpeu'« glands are a little to one side of the nuddle line, and therefore, when they are inflamed, as during an attack of gonorrhcBa, the swelling, and probably suppuration later, will not be median, but to one side of the middle line. Professor CuniMNGHam points out an interestijig thing about this dissection, viz.:—that, I'rom the surface to prostate, we meet witli an alteration of muscular and fascial strata, thvrs— 1. Superficial fascia.400 Applied Anntouty. 3. Tmugiilar ligaiuoiit. 4. Comj^regsor urethnii muscle. 5. Parietal pelvic fascia, or posterior layer of triangular ligament. G. Levator ani muscle. 7. Capsule of prostate and pubo-prostatic ligament. Ill relation to the subject of extravasation of the urine from rupture of tlie membranous part of the urethra (which is said to be the usual seat of tramatic rupture), it is difficult to see how the urine can sj)read as it does, because the space between the two layers of the triangidar ligament, where the membranous urethra is situated, is practically a closed membranous box. But when a patient falls, and is caught by a beam in. the " fork," it is anatomi- cally impossible that the memhranoiis urethra could be ruptured. This portion of the urethra stops at the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and this ligament is not at right angles to the surface of the earth, but almost parallel with it, and therefore, in falling, its whole anterior surface, and not its edge, -woiUd strike the beam, and the part jammed between the beam and the jmbes is the bulbous portion of the urethra, and hence there is no difficulty at all in ixnderstanding the course of the extravasated urine. In fractures of the pelvis, however, it is the memhranous urethra that is torn, and hence the extravasated urine is confined in the space between the two layers, and between the pubes and the bladder, and does not present the usual well-marked and characteristically- shaped swelling.'^ I saw a beautiful example of "this fact in a case of Dr Cairo's. The case Avas one of rupture of the urethra, due to lateral compression of the pelvis, and the catheter could only draw off a limited amount of fluid from the space between the two layers of the triangular ligament and behind the pubes, and which was evidently being lilled from time to time from the bladder. Dr Caird cut down in the middle line in order to find the divided ends of the urethra, and when it was reached the finger could be passed into a cavity behind tlie pubes in front of the bladder, and which had evidently no connection with the " pouch " in the perineum. * III relation to tliis suliject, sec a Paper liy Ur Axkl Iviiiif^EX.401 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The case could not be verified by dissection further than during the progress of tlie operation, as tlie young lad is now perfectly well except for a slight traumatic stricture. In cases where a patient receives an injury to his perineum, and this is followed by a discharge of blood from the urethra, independently of micturition, there is every reason to suspect a complete or partial rupture of the urethra. An exception to this rule will be found in cases of rupture of the vas deferens. From a fall in the " fork," therefore, the nretlira usually ruptures a little in front of the triangular ligament, through the spongy part of the urethra; very frequently the rupture is only partial. The signs are rapid swelling in the perineum from blood and urine, should the patient attempt to pass water, difficulty in passing urine, or complete retention," and the passage of blood from the meatus. Rupture of the membranous urethra is usually secondary to fracture of the pelvis, blood rarely flows from the meatus, rather pa.ssing backwards into the bladder, and there is no primary swelling in the perineum. The urine passes behind the pubis and through the weak anterior part of the pelvic fascia into the sub- peritoneal cellular tissue, giving rise to abscess that may perforate the peritoneum, or descend by the side of the rectum, and point at the anus (Iversen). If the attachment of the pelvic fascia to the rami of the pubes and ischium be split, the urine may fiutl its way into the adductor region, and there give rise to abscess. Various plans of tpeatment are open to the Surgeon—(1) He may be able, by keeping its point against the roof of the urethra, to pass a catheter into the bladder, as the rupture is very often only partial; the catheter is then left in the bladder. (2) In cases where he cannot pass a catheter, he may cut down in the middle line of the perineum, find the rent, and then pass a soft catheter into the bladder, and leave it in for eight or ten days. (3) If it even then be impossible to find the proximal end of the torn urethra, a supra-pubic cystotomy should be performed, and then, by the aid of posterior catheterisation, an instrument can be passed along the urethra into the bladder. (4) In case of rupture complicated with fracture, Vm.h gives the following advice:— *2cApplied Anatomy: 402 Do not cathetei'ise, but tap the bladder above the pubes with the fine needle of the aspirator, and repeat the procedure every eight or twelve hours for at least ten days. The Anterior Space in the Female.—In the female there is situated in this space the orifice of the vagina, and the parts connected with it—the true perineum in the female being that part between the posterior commissure of the labia and the orifice of the anus, and is from an inch to an inch and a half in length. A work of this kind is not quite the place to take up the subject of development; still, a few words on it will not be amiss, in order to trace out the homologous parts in the two sexes. Up to the seventh or eighth week of foetal life, in both sexes, the genital, urinary, and intestinal tubes open into a common opening, or cloaca, a condition Avhich is permanent in reptiles and birds. About this time a transverse partition forms, dividing this cloacal aperture into an anal or posterior division, and an anterior division, called the uro-genital sinus. From the part of this sinus lying above the opening of the Wolffian duct in the male, and the MUllerian duct in the female, the prostatic portion of the male urethra, and the ivlwh of the female urethra, is developed; the part below this, forms the vestibule in the female, and the mem- branous part of the urethra in the male. The uro-genital sinus is, however, further sub-divided by a fold forming in the antero- posterior direction, called the genital eminence, and which ultimately forms the penis in the male and the clitoris in the female. The under surface of this body is cleft, and is further bounded by tM'o folds, which in the male grow down and close in the furrow, forming the corjius spongiosum of the penis; but in the female they remain open, and, diverging from each other, form the ]iympha3 or labia minora. At the sides of the sinus other integu- mentary folds arise, which in the male join to form the scrotum ; but in the female they remain open, and form the labia niajora. In the male, the small prostatic pouch or sinus pomlaris, seen in the prostatic portion of the urethra, is the homologue of the vagina and uterus in the female. This space further differs from the corresponding space in the male—(1) Because the superficial fascia, owing to the position of tlie vulva, is divided in the middle line, and becomes continuoiis with the sheath of the vagina;Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 403 (2) situated between the orifices of the vagina and the anus, is a structure Icuown as the "perineal body," which corresponds in position to the central point of the perineum, but contains much elastic tissue; (3) the two halves of the muscle, corresponding to the accelerator urina? in the male, are separated by the vulva, forming the bulbo-cavernosus muscle or sphincter vaginae; and (i) the vagina pierces the triangular ligament of the urethra. From the above it is evident that we cannot get " extravasation of urine," as in the male. Nerves of the Perineum.—The Pudic Nerve supplies, by its inferior haamorrhoidal branch, the skin around the anus, and com- municates with the long pudendal nerve; the anterior and posterior divisions of the perineal branch supply the skin of the ischio-rectal fossa, the scrotum, and under part of the penis, and sends filaments to the levator and sphincter ani. The Dorsal Nerve of the penis supphes the integument of the ujJiDer part and sides of the penis and prepuce. The Muscles supplied by the pudic nerve are— (a) Transversus perinei, (6) accelerator urinte, (c) erector penis, and (r7) compressor urethras. The pudic nerve also supplies the mucous membrane of the urethra. These communications of the pudic nerve explain the painful erections (eliordee), and the spasm of the urethral wall in cases of acute inflammation of the urethra. The fourth sacral nerve is distributed to the viscera of the pelvis, notably the neck of the bladder, and joins the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic; it also supplies the levator ani, coccygeus, sphincter ani, and skin between the anus and the coccyx. This nerve is the one chiefly affected in cases of " fissure of the anus," more especially its branch to the sphincter ani, which also gives twigs to the skin about the anus. The Inferior or Long Pudendal Branch of the small sciatic curves forwards below the tuber ischii, pierces the fascia lata, supplies the skin of the scrotum, and communicates with the superficial perineal and the inferior hpemorr- hoidal nerves; other branches of the small sciatic supply the skin at the upper and inner sides of tlie thigh, towards its posterior aspect. It will be observed, therefore, that the anus and uretlira, with their muscles, are practically supplied by the same nerve, and this explains why they are so frequently involved together, and why disease of the one reacts on the other—e.g., operations on theApplied Anatomy: 404 rectum causing retention of urine. Mr Hutchinson relates a case wliere permanent incontinence, botli of f;eces and urine, with entire loss of sensation in the passages concerned, followed the crushing operation for piles. The depth of the perineum varies with the amount of fat present. It is deeper towards the posterior part, and more shalloM' towards the front. Posteriorly it varies from two to three inches, while in front it may he less than an inch.405 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. CHAPTER XLI. THE PELVIS. LITHOTOMY. The Lateral Operation.—The instruments required are as follows :— 1. Sounds of various kinds. The usual sound is a solid steel instruiuent, shaped like a catheter, but with a shorter curve, so that it may readily examine all parts of the bladder, esiDscially the part behind the prostate; the handle is flattened, and the point slightly bulbous. Sir Henry Thomson's sound is hollow^ and has a round handle; it is thus more easily managed during rotation, and may be used either to inject or draw off the contents of the bladder. In some cases the sound is so constructed that a " souudiug-board " can be attached to its end, in order to intensify tlie sound when a stone is struck. 2. An eight-ounce, or Higginson's, Syringe, with a catheter I'or injecting the bladder (unless the hollow sound be used), and a tube for washing out the bladder through the wound, after the operation, by a reversed current. 3. Staffs, as large as the urethra will admit, with as deep and wide grooves as possible on the left hand side ; the groove must stop half-an-inch from the point, and must not extend too far u]i the handle, lest urine escape during the operation. It may b(! straight (Key), or curved (Cjie.seI;UEn), or rectangular with a sliarp angle (Buchanan), or a rounded angle (Chiene). In cases of enlarged prostate, Chesef.den's staff is better than P.uchanan's, because, when the angle is in the membranous urethra, the point jnay not be in the bladder, and if the horizontal limb bo too long, it is very difficult to introduce. Professor Chienk's staff, with a specially long horizontal limb, however, can readily be introduced406 Applied A natoniy: and used, as the angle is rounded. The hroad part of the handle should be roughened, especially the side towards the concavity of the stall". 4. Knife, with a large handle—for the adult, say about four and a half inches. The blade is about tlu'ee inches long, and does not cut to the heel, the cutting edge only extending about an inch and a quarter from the point. The blunt part is to allow the finger to be placed below the blade, to press and keep the knife in the groove of the stalf during the second part of the incision. It should be bevelled off at the back near the point, so as to enable it to glide easily along the groove of the staff. A probe-pointed knife, with blunt heel, is sometimes used to enlarge the deeper part of the wound before the stone is extracted. Aston Key uses a straight staff at the latter part of the operation. Buchanan uses a rectangular staff; the angle is felt in the perineum, and the knife cuts straight down upon it, and then along the straujlit groove into the bladder. In Professor Chiene's staff (Fig. 215), the two parts are almost at right angles to each other; but the angle is not sharp but rounded, so that it possesses the advantages of both the ordinary and the rectangular staff—ease of introduction and less risk of the knife slipping out of the groove. For the ordinary Cheselden staff, probably Fergusson's knife is the best; but for Professor Chiene's or Buchanan's staff, Liston's knife is better. For the first part of the operation, the knife is held under the hand; in the second part, Liston held it above his hand. 5. Blunt Gorget, probe-pointed, with blade about four or five inches long. This is sometimes useful as a director and safe guide for the forceps, and for dilating the already cut wound, and may be used in cases where the finger cannot reach the bladder, as in enlarged prostate, and in a fat person with a very deep perineum. Sharp gorgets, formerly much used for cutting the deeper part of the wound, are now discarded. 6. Forceps of various sizes, straight or curved, to suit the axis of the pelvis; the blades, when closed, shoidd be about an eighth of an inch from each other. The curved pair may be required in cases where the prostate is enlarged, and the stone in the pouch behind it. The handles have a ring on one side, and a hook on the other; the ring is for the thumb, the hook for the fingers.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Fig. 215, Fig. 216. Professor Chiene's Staff. Lithotomy Tu408 Applied A iiatomy: 7. Scoops. 8. Searcher, specially made for such, or else use au ordinary sound. 9. It may be sometimes necessary to liave some means i^resent for crushing the stone. 10. A pair of Lithotomy Tapes, of -worsted or coarse flannel, three yards long^ and three inches broad; or leather anldets and wrist-bands may be used. 11. A silver or gum elastic Rigid Tube, Avell rounded at the end, and provided Avith rings, ■whereby it can be tied into the bladder, with or without " petticoats." There are also specially made " air tampoon" tubes for the same purpose. Tlie tube with the petticoat or air-bag is specially adapted for plugging the M'ound in cases of deep venous ha-morrhage; and being rigid, the walls of the tube are not scj^ueezed togetlier, so that the urine and discharges can still pass freely through. This tube is not to drain the Avound, and must therefore only have holes at its ends; and besides, lateral holes Avould allow the urine to flow out and soak the raw surface of the wound (Fig. 21G). 12. Catch forceps, tenacula, ligatures, sponges, lint, morphia sujjpository (half-grain), towels, etc. In all forms of perineal lithotomy, the object in view is to make an opening into the bladder, large enough to admit of ea^y extraction of the stone without opening up the visceral pelvic lascia, with the least risk to the pudic artery or its branches, and witliout injury to the rectum. Assistants.—Three special assistants are required—one to steady and abduct each knee, and a third to hold the staff and pull the scrotum uji out of the way. This assistant stands on the left side of the patient, close behind the assistant holding the left knee; he is also to grasp both scrotum and penis with his left hand, and pull them up, for by so doing he not only holds the scrotum out of the operator's way, but by stretching the penis, lie also draws up the bulb, Avhich is thus less likely to be Avounded, and increases the space betAveen the urethra and rectum. The Surgeon is seated on a loAv stool facing the patient's buttocks, so that Avheu operating his fore-arms are almost on a level Avith the patient's perineum, Avhich should be jierpendicular. The instruments are arranged inSiirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 400 ;i couvouient manner on a tray witliin easy roach, or else coniiiiiLiud to the cliarge of an assistant. Ijefore operating, the patient sliould be kept quiet for a week or ten clays, and his general health and secretions carefxdly attended to. The bowels must be opened the previous day by means of an aperient. The left side of the perineum may also be shaved, as this will save trouble on the morning oT the operation, or this can 1)6 done with less unpleasantness to the patient after he is under cliloroform and tied up. On the morning of the oj^eration, the rectum must be emptied by an enema of warm Avater, administered two hours or so before the operation; it is necessary to see that it acts ju'operly before the operation, lest it act when the patient is on the table, and besides, a distended rectum adds greatly to the risk of the operation. A loose circle of bandage may also be fastened round the pelvis, to which the tapes of the tube are fastened after the operation is finished. The urine is allowed to collect for an hour or so before the operation, or else five or six ounces of tepid carbolised water must be injected after the urine is drawn ofl", as one can then know exactly how much fluid is in the bladder. The patient being now placed on the table, an anfesthetic is administered, the sound passed, and the stone struclc, the " click" being heard both by the operator and his assistants. If the stone is detected, he proceeds with the operation, but if he cannot detect it, the operation must be abandoned for that day at least; for the law is, that this operation must never be performed unless tlie stone can be felt when the patient is on the table, and lliis law, like the laM's of the Medes and Persians, altereth not. In sounding, the patient lies on his back upon a hard mattress or table, with his buttocks raised by means of a pillow, so as to displace the stone from the pouch behind the prostate, and the bladder moderately distended with urine, or, better, draw off all the urine and inject a measured quantity of warm boracic lotion. The Surgeon at first stands on the patient's left side till the sound has entered the bladder; after this he may change to the right side, as he can then Jiiore easily work the sound with the right hand, while the left hand is free for the rectum. A full-sized sound, Avoll warmed and oiled, is then allowed to enter the bladder by its own weight. In sounding, the bladder sliould at lirst bo moderately full, iind then.Applied Anatomy: 410 if no stoiiG be found, the water should be drawn off and the viscus examined empty 3 for this reason a hollow sound should be used in preference to a solid one. When it has entered the bladder, the point is first directed to the deepest part of the bladder where the stone usually lies, and made to move gently from side to side, then from before backwards; it is next rotated slightly with the beak downwards, and the handle gently depressed between the patient's thighs, so as to examine the floor and sides of the bladder and the part immediately behind the prostate; the sound is moved slowly along the floor and sides, and gently twirled from side to side in the meantime, so as to examine every part in a regular methodical manner. The handle may be depressed stUl further, and the beak turned upwards, so as to examine the pubic portion of the bladder wall. The usual positions of the stone are—(a) At the right side of the neck of the bladder; (h) at the fundus, near one or otber ureter; (c) in the pouch behind the prostate, especially in oUl men; and (d) more rarely, in a pouch under the pubes, or in the posterior and upper wall: in the child, as the bladder is an abdominal organ, it may be caught above the pubes. If the sound alone cannot detect the stone, then try with the finger in the rectum; and if still unsuccessful, draw oft" the water and try the empty bladder. The stone may be missed if it hes in the pouch behind the prostate or above the pubes in the child, or if it lies in one of the recesses of a sacculated bladder. A lithotrite makes an excellent sound, as one is better able to measure the stone or judge of its hardness by the bite of the lithotrite, and also of the number present. Other points to be noted in sounding are—the expulsive power of the bladder as the water is drawn oti", and the capacity of the bladder Avhen the boracic acid is injected; and the state of the prostate, by the direction and distance the sound travels, aided by the finger in the rectum ; and also, of course, the presence or absence of stricture of the urethra. I ouglat to mention that some Surgeons use a flat piece of wood, stuck on to the end of the sound, to act as a sounding-board and intensify the " click" of the stone. A stone may be thought to be present when it is not, by the sound clicking against a ring on the operator's finger, or its point rubbing against a projecting third lobe, or projecting rugce, coated with phosphatic deposit.411 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The stone liaviug been felt by tbe staff, the patient most then lie tirmly tied np in the usnal Hthotomy position, and during the manipulations necessary for this purpose, the staff must not be allowed to slip out of the bladder. He is tied up by making a clove hitch in the tape and passing it round the wrist with the knot in front, so that the arteries of the fore-arm are not pressed upon, after which the palm of the hand is laid against the under and outer surface of the patient's foot, and fastened there by the ends of the tape being passed in a figure-of-eight round the ankle, instep, and hand, and firmly tied. The patient is then moved downwards to the end of the table, so that his buttocks project slightly over its edge, and a sheet of Mackintosh placed under his buttocks, and at the upper end pushed between Ms skin and shirt. Each leg is firmly held by an assistant, who faces the operator, placing one hand on the inner side of the patient's knee, which is placed under his arm, while -ndth the other the foot is grasped and drawn backwards and outwards, the sole of the foot resting on the palm, and the fingers passing round its inner side. The staff assistant stands on the left side, behind the other assistant; the staff must be held very steadily, exactly in the middle line, and at right angles to the long axis of the patient's trunk, and hooked vertically upwards against the under surface of the pnbes, for reasons already stated. This steadies the staff; the surface of the staff nearest the operator rests against the palmar surface of the assistant's fingers, while the palmar surface of his thumb presses against the broad roughened part of the handle. It will further contribute to greater steadiness if the elboAv of that arm be allowed to rest lightly on the patient's thorax; this must not be done to such an extent as to impede the respiratory movements of the patient. The staff' must on no account be allowed to tilt either towards or from the abdomen. If it is tilted towards the abdomen, then its point leaves the bladder, and, of course, the knife cannot enter it; especially is this the case in children, and in old men with enlarged prostates. It should always be kept in contact with the stone, if possible. If it be tilted towards tlie perineum, it enters the bladder too far, and there is a risk of the knife entering the posterior wall, and dividing the prostate too extensively.Applied Aiuxtomy: 412 The Surgeon now passes liis finger into tlie rectum to ascertain the depth of the perineum, by feeling the apex of the prostate and membranous portion of the urethra, to see that the rectum is empty, and also to make it contract to its fullest possible extent, "which will keep it out of the way. The fingers of the left hand are then laid on the left side of the perineum, to steady it while the first incision is being made. The knife is entered one-third of an inch to the left of the median raphe, an inch and a quarter in front of the anus, so as not to cut the artery to the bulb, and is carried downwards and outwards for about three inches to a point between the anus and the tuberosity of the ischium, but rather nearer to the tuberosity than it is to the anus. The deepest part of this incision should be towards the upper part, near tlie base of the triangular ligament, just between the erector penis covering the crus, and the accelerator urina) covering the bulb, or fully a quarter of an inch from the upper end of the incision, and must become shallower and shallower as it passes dowmvards into the ischio-rectal fossa. The point of the knife should strike the staff as it lies between the "two layers" of the triangular ligament, in the membranous portion of the urethra. In making this incision, Professor Chiene keeps his finger in the rectum, all the time resting on the apex of the prostate, while he steadies the tissues outside Avith his thumb; there is no doubt but that by this means the depth of the perineum and the situation of the stafi^ in the membranous urethra can be more easily kept in the mind's eye, and that, therefore, the first incision is more safely and correctly made. 13y the first incision we divide —(1) The skin: (2) superficial fascia, opening into the pouch formed by the fascia of Colles j (3) the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves; (4) probably some of the branches of the long scrotal nerves; (5) the transversus perinei muscle; (6) the lower border of tlie anterior layer of the triangular ligament; and (7) the membranous urethra surrounded by the compressores uretlnw muscles. The left forefinger is then to bo passed into the wound, to see that the staff is reached, and to protect the rectum if it is found necessary to enlarge or clear the incision to reach the staff; then the nail of that finger is placed in the "roove in such a Avny that the dorsal surface of the finger413 Surgical, Medical, and Opera live. is turned towards the ojaerator's right liaiid. The knife is then sli|iped along the upper surface rather of the finger, and its point pushed through the memhranous urethra into the groove of the staff, wliile the finger protects and pushes aside the rectum. The hlade of the knife is then inclined till it lies parallel with the rami of the pubes and ischium, the point being slightly above the level of the handle, and is then pushed steadily along the groove into the bladder, taking care not to depress the handle too much, lest the opening in the jirostate may be made too large, nor elevating it, lest it slip from the groove altogether, till if.i iwint is arrested hi/ tlie termination of the groove; when the ordinary staff is used, the angle between the knife and staff should be about forty-five degrees all through this second incision. The knife must be kept firmly pressed against the side and upper jiart of the groove, lest it slip out. Just as in ligature of arteries, the jprinciple here is to make a free superficial incision, but a limited deep incision. The opening in tlie prostate may be enlarged as far as necessary when withdrawing the knii^, by depressing the handle, only be careful to keep the back of the knife against the staff all the time. In the enlarged and indurated prostates of old men, a larger incision will be necessary than in young adults, as it will not dilate so easily. As the knife is withdrawn, the operator pushes his finger along the groove in the staff into the bladder—(a) to plug up the wound, and prevent the escape of fluid; (Ji) to feel the stone and judge its size, and turn it in the proper axis for the forceps; (c) to dilate the prostatic incision; and (d) to judge what si/.e of forceps is most suital)le. The Structures divided in the second incision are—(1) The rest of the membranous urethra and the compressores urethrai muscles; (2) a few fibres of the levator ani (leocdor prostatce) ; (3) the left lobe of the prostate, and the prostatic portion of tiie urethra; (4) a dense ring wliich surrounds the prostatic urethra; and (5) the internal sphincter of the urethra (sphincter vesica;). As siion as the finger feels the stone, the Surgeon asks the assistant to withdraw the stalf. IMie forceps arc then introduced, the finger already in the bladder acting as a guide; the Idades are separated a little, so as to embrace the finger, upon the dorsal surface of wliich they arc pushed through the prostate into tlic bladder asApplied Anatomy: 414 the finger is withdrawn. Sir Henry Thomson directs that they should be passed along the palmar aspect of the finger, till they are fairly in the bladder. The blades are then opened, and the stone is usually caught, being carried between the blades by the first gush of urine. The method adopted by Mr Chiene is extremely simple and effective:—The forceps being introduced, open the blades widely in the horizontal direction, turn them one-quarter of a circle, so that the handles now lie in the vertical direction, then close the forceps by lifting the lower handle, as this corresponds to the upper blade; by this means, if there be a stone present, it will be caught. The lower blade must not be moved. If the stone be faceted, there will almost certainly be others present. Lastly, the searcher must be used to explore the whole cavity, and make sure that they are all removed. Small ones may be removed by the scoop, being grasped between the blade of the scoojD and the point of the operator's finger. All bleeding arteries are then secured, the venous hasmorrhage usually soon stops of itself, but if not, the wound must be plugged. The wound is then washed out, the rigid gum-elastic tube tied in, the patient loosened and carried to bed. He is placed on a firm mattress, guarded by waterproof cloth, with the body so inclined as to favour the flow of urine from the wound; a warm draw-sheet is jilaced Ijeneath his buttocks, which are to be smeared with vaseline, to prevent excoriation. Each knee, slightly flexed and abducted, should lie on a pillow. A special attendant must watch the wound and the discharges, and see that the tube does not become blocked up by blood clots. A dose of opium may be given if necessary. When the patient makes plenty of urine, this is always to be regarded as a very good sign. The diet should at first be non- stimulating, consisting chiefly of milk, with plenty of barley-water to drink. The urine passes, in the first instance, entirely through the Avound, but after the first day it may pass several times by the urethra, because the inflammatory swelling closes up the hole in the prostate. After forty-eight hours it again passes entirely through the wound; about this time in the adult, and sooner in the child, the rigid tube is to be removed, as the sides of the wound will be glazed, so that there is no danger of urinary in- filtration, and besides, if left longer, it is likely to become coatedSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 415 with phosphatic deposit. The great use of the tube is to allow the wound to be plugged in cases of hiemorrhage; ]\Ir Bryant does not think a tube necessary, and does not use it at all. After eight or ten days it again begins to pass by the urethra, and in about three weeks after the operation it ceases to pass by the wound altogetlier. There is no risk of stricture following this wound of the urethra, because the incision is longitudinal, or in the long axis of the tube, and not transverse (Duncan). In Boys, the operation differs somewhat from the same operation in adults. In the adult the bladder is easily opened into, but the difficidty is the removal of the stone; in boys, on the other hand, the stone is easily extracted, but the difficulty is to open into the bladder (Chiene). It is rarely fatal in children, except from violence on the Surgeon's part, tearing through the membranous portion of the urethra. An objection urged against this method in boys is that it means emasculation. This is very doubtful; in any case. Nature provides him with two seminal duets and vesicles, as well as two testicles. This difference depends upon the relative position of the bladder, and the size of the prostate gland in the child and in the adult. In th.e child the bladder is chiefly an abdominal organ, and is more movable than in the adult, and the prostate gland is not yet developed. See that the groove does not pass too far up the staff, or else the contents of the bladder escape along the groove, leaving the Surgeon to cut down upon an empty bladder, which is very dangerous, as one may readily pass between the bladder and the rectum. The staff, further, should be strongly curved. In making the second part of the incision, direct the knife a little upwards; and in introducing the finger carry it along the concave side of the staff, against the roof of the urethra, which is fixed and rigid. Mr Heath introduces a strong director before the staff is removed, and then passes his finger along the director. It is not necessary to tie up a child in the usual manner, as the limbs can easily be held in position by the assistants. The staff must be Jcejit in contact with, the stone from first to last, till the Surgeon feels it with his finger. The cutting operation is usually preferred in boys under ten or fifteen years of age, though it has been shown that the crushing operation may be performed safely at a much earlier ago.41G Applied Anatoi/iy : AVhen the patient is on tiie table, the order of events is the following:— 1. Administer chloroform. 2. Draw off all the urine in the bladder. 3. Inject four to six ounces of a warm boracic solution. 4. Introduce the staff, and strike the stone; and if felt— 5. Tie up the patient. (). Shave the left side of the perineum. 7. Cut— (a) Fird incision, down to the staff in the membranous urethra. (h) Second 'incision, from this point into the bladder. 8. Eemove the stone or stones. 9. Fix a lithotomy tube into the bladder. The following Facts are worthy of Special Note:—In making the deeper incisions, the side of the knife should be kept parallel with the ramus of the ischium, because, if the edge be turned too much towards the mesial line, (1) the rectum may be wounded; and if the edge be turned too much outwards, (2) tlie internal pudic artery may be cut, which is bound down in a strong sheath of obturator fascia, under cover of the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium. It lies about three-quarters of an inch above the margin of the tuberosity. (3) The artery to the bulb, instead of coming off from the internal pudic, between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and running transversely inwards to the bulb, sometimes arises further back, and sometimes even in the ischio-rectal fossa. In this case it is almost certain to be wounded, and the accident is attended with considerable danger to life, from hitmorrliage, for three reasons—(a) From its size, and from the fact that it is cut (usually) near its origin from the parent trunk; (b) it is so deeply placed tliat it is almost impossible to apply a ligature; and (c) the fibrous nature of the tissues in which it lies at this point tends to prevent its contraction, and the consequent natural arrest of the hemorrhage. The proper course is to enlarge the wound, and tie both ends of the bleeding vessel. (4) The incision into the prostate should be as limited as possible, lest the knife pass beyond it and cut through the reflection of the pelvic fascia from its sides and front (the point of reflection, however, is closeSurgical, Medical, and Operative. to the upper part of tlio prostate), forming the hxteral and anterior true ligaments of the bhulder, and thus open into the pelvic cavity, which accident is almost certain to be followed by infiltration of urine and ditfuse cellulitis. (5) The bulb must be avoided. (0) If the knife be thrust too deeply in the last stage of the incision, the posterior wall of the bladder might be wounded. In performing lithotomy in children, there are certain diiierences in the size and position of the parts concerned—(1) The urethra is proportionately larger; (2) the perineum is more vascular usually ; (3) the rudimentary state of the prostate gland; (-l) the bladder in children is situated much higher, being rather an abdominal than a pelvic viscus; and (5) if the point of the knife is not raised sutticieutly in making the deep part of the incision, the bladder may not be entered at all, but the knife may pass between the bladder and the rectum, and in attempting to dilate the supposed wound, the neck of the bladder may be torn from the urethra. ^\'"ith these ditferences in. minel, the operation is performed in the same Avay as in the adult. In Stone in the bladder, pain is felt at the end of micturition, because the bladder contracts on tlie stone and forces it against the sensitive trigone; hence, when some urine collects again, the pain is relieved, because the bladder is raised off the stone. In Cystitis, the pain is produced in a different manner—viz., by the contact of the urine with the inflamed mucous membrane, and is therefore relieved immediately after the act, as the irritant is removed, but begins again as soon as the urine begins to collect. The pain felt at the end of the penis in stone, is because the prostatic plexus of nerves end just behind the glaus penis. Many kidney affections simulate stone in the bladder, notably scrofulous kidney; but other conditions—either in the pelvis of the kidney, in its substance, or in the tissue around it—may give rise to similar symptoms. The pain in stone is increased by movement, showing that it is most likely due to a movable body. The student sliould remember that, in boys, all the signs of stone may be due to adherent prepuce. When tlie urethra is inflamed, the pain is worst dariw/ micturition. Simple inflammation of the neck of the bladder and prostate, abscess of the prostate, and tubercular disease of the prostate, may all closely simulate stone in the bladder, as *2u418 Applied Anatomy: the neck of the bladder is inflaiued; so also iii liyportropliy of the prostate in old men, especially of the "middle" lobe. As the lirst part of the nrethra lies in the prostate, it is very often inflamed in affections of that gland, so that there will also be pain during micturition to a certain extent. THE MEDIAN OPERATION. (The Old " Marian," ok Tiui " Oi'euation of the Apparatus Major.") In this case the incision is made in the middle line, in the space between the rectum behind and the bulb in front. A staii' with a median groove is passed into the bladder, and the left index finger passed into the rectum, and made to touch and rest on the apex of the prostate gland. The knife is then entered with its edge directed upiuai'ds, half-an-ineh in front of the anus, and its point so directed that it cuts a small part of the apex of the prostate and the membranous urethra; it is next made to cut upwards for a little way, opening the membranous urethra a little more fully. A ball-pointed probe is then passed along the staff into the bladder and the staff withdrawn. The finger is now introduced and the prostate gland dilated sulUciently, if this be possible. This operation has been characterised as, " small incision, much dilatation ;" but it is doubtful whether it is altogether " dilatation." After dilatation is completed, the stone is extracted by the forceps. The Structures divided arc—(1) Skin and superficial fascia ; (2) sphincter ani; (3) the central poiiit of the perineum and the structiues meeting there; (4) the lower edge of the triangular ligament; (5) apex of the prostate; and (6) membranous urethra, surrounded by (7) the compressores urethrre muscles. Advantages — (1) It is said to be more easily performeil. (2) There is less bleeding, as it is in the median raphe, and tliere is no risk of cutting the artery to the bulb. (3) It is said to be iinpo8sihle to open up the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, as it is dilatation, not cutting; there is less injury to the lateral ligaments of the bladder. Disadvantages.—(1) Danger of wounding the bulb, and (2) dan- ger of M-ounding the rcctuin—both greater than in lateral. (3) The410 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. space is small, and it cannot Lc used for large stones; tlio dense ring- -which surrounds the urethra prevents great dilatation, hoth in the prostate and at the ucclv of the bladder, and laceration of this ring is very dangerous. (4) It cannot he used in the child, as probably tlie neck of the bladder would be torn from the urethra during the " dilatation;" and besides, there is practically no jjrostate in the child. (5) The incision is not made in the longest diameter of the prostate (Fig. 217). It is recommended—(l) In cases of foreign bodies in the bladder; (2) in cases of small stone, less than one inch in diameter, where "crushing" cannot be used—ejj., as for cy.stitis; (3) in cases of numerous small stones, or after lithotrity, where fragments are left; and (4) in cases where loss of blood is a Fig. 217, The Prostate in Lithotomy. serious matter to the patient. An almost similar operation ma\" be used for prostatic calculi or prostatic abscess. The Bilateral Operation (Dlh-liytrex).—In this operation a curved transverse incision is made half-an-inch above the anus, towards which its concavity looks, tlie extremities of the incision extending for about two-thirds of the distance bet-ween the anus and tuber ischii on each side, lly this incision there are diA'ided —(I) Skin, (2) superficial fascia, (.''i) superficial nerves of the perineum, (4) superficial vessels of tlie perineum, (5) the superficial mu.scles of the perineum (see " I)iss(!ction of tlie reriueum"), ami ((i) membranous [lortioJi of the urethra and the comiircssor urethra', muscle, luto this opening the double Ulholiime raclu'c is introduced and passed into the bladder along a grooved median stall', with its concavity upwards; but when once in tin; bladder, the concavity is turned downwards, the spring in thr. liaiidle is pressed, and theApplied Anatomy: 420 blades, previously " set," are made to cut their way out in with- drawing the instrument. Through the opening tlius made in the prostate the stone is extracted. irregularities of the Vessels met with in Lateral Lithotomy.'^ I. Internal Pudic.—(1) It may come directly from the internal iliac, pierce the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, run along the lateral lobe of the prostate, and there divide into three branches —(a) the dorsal artery of the penis, (h) one to the crus, and (c) one to the bulb, which runs along the memhranous ])art of the urethra, and is j^retty certain therefore to be divided in the operation, if it is found on the left side.f (2) A case somewhat similar is described by Dr Allen Thomson. The vessel at first lies between the bladder and the rectum, then on the side of the prostate, and crosses the membranous portion of the urethra obliquely, below the visceral fascia, to gain the sub-pubic arch; were this present on the left side, it would be cut in the lateral operation. (3) Mr Spence also describes a case where a vessel arose from the mternal iliac in common with the obturator, and reached the sub-pubic arch by passing along the upper surface of the prostate; this variety would be in no danger of injury during the oiJeratiou. A similar course is sometimes pursued by the dorsal artery of the penis; it passes along the lower and lateral wall of the bladder, then across its neck, above the visceral layer of fascia, over the upjper surface of the prostate, and leaves the pelvis by passing between the anterior true ligaments of the bladder; this vessel would also be quite safe, as it is above the visceral layer of fascia, unless the incision divides this layer and opens up the ujiper surface of the capsule of the prostate, which it should never do. II. The Inferior Hsemorrhoidal.^—This vessel leaves the pudic opposite the tuber ischii, and divides into several branches, which pass across the base of the ischio-rectal fossa; sometimes it does not divide thus, and then the trunk is cut in making the hrst incision, and bleeds profusely, both from its size and also because * See article by tlie kte Prolessor SrENCE, iu Uie " Edinburgh Monthly j\Ieclical Journal," for March 1841. + This specimen is preserved iu the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh.421 Sin'gical, Medical, and Operative. it is divided near the parent trunk and may retract witliin the fascia; in old jDeople, too, the coats are often so diseased tliat they will not hold a ligature. Mr Ltston mentions a fatal case due to this cause. III. The Superficial Perineal Artery.—This vessel arises from the pudic, a little anterior to the last, and, after giving off the transversus perinei, passes to the scrotum along the erector penis. Sometimes the vessel lies directly in the line of the incision and is necessarily divided ; it is not likely to give rise to trouble, however, unless it is divided close to the parent trunk. lA^. Artery to the Bulb.—This artery usually arises from the pudic, about fourteen lines * in front of the anus, passes across the perineum between the two layers of the triangular ligament to the bulb. The incision is begun as far forward as this {cm inch and a quarter, or an inch and a half in front of the anus), and one would think, therefore, that it should be cut during the ordinary operation. Mr Spence believed that it was frequently cut, but that it did not give rise to trouble because it was divided so far from its origin—provided that it was really cid, not merely luounded. (1) The vessel has been known to arise as iisual from the pudic, pass directly backwards to near the anus, and then curve up to gain the bulb (Spence). (2) It may also come off from the pudic, posterior to its usual origin, and pass across the triangular liga- ment to the bulb. (3) It may also arise from an irregular pudic, and run along the membranous part of the urethra to the bulb (see previous page). Should such irregularities exist on the left side, the vessel will probably be divided, but from no fault on the part of the Surgeon. (4) Mr Spence mentions another case, where the pudic gave off no artery to the bulb, and where this vessel came from the anterior division of the internal iliac, passed along the side of the bladder, and upon the upper surface of the prostate, pierced the left true ligament of the bladder, crossed the membranous part of the urethra obliquely, and then entered the bulb. V. Prostatic Artery.—This artery may come directly from the interna] iliac, arise in common Avitli the vesical, or come from the * 12 lines = one inch.Applied Anatomy: 422 pelvic portion of the pudic; it usually pierces the visceral layer of fascia, and lies on the side of the prostate, there dividing into liranches whicli supply this gland and the neighbouring part of the rectum; in this case, it is not likelj' to cause trouble. Some- times, however, the vessel gains the perineal aspect of the prostate icifJiont dlriilivri into hranclics, and may be fully as large as the artei'y to the bulb, and would give rise to great trouble if divided. Tiiis irregularity is nearly throe times as common as the dangerous forms of irregular artery to the bull). It would lie well, in all cases of perineal lithotomy, to make a careful examination of the prostate and membranous part of the urethra from the rectum, especially on the left side, as it might be possible to detect the pulsation of the dangerous forms of irregular arteries to the prostate and bulb. VI. Serious bleeding occasionally occurs from the plexus of veins (or rather venous sinuses) on the perineal aspect of the prostate gland in old men (SrENCE). THE HIGH OR SUPRA-PUBIC OPERATION. It may be necessary to perform this operation—(1) On account of the large size of the stone, (2) rigid hip joint, and (3) contracted pelvic outlet. It is also advocated for boys, as it avoids the risk of a large wound in the perineum, rupture of the membranous urethra, and injury to the vesicular seminales and ducts. Tlie bladder must be distended with twelve or sixteen ounces of some warm antiseptic, so that it can be felt above the pubes; if it cannot hold water, then this operation cannot be performed. An elastic ring may be passed round the penis to prevent the escape of the iluid. The injection may be accomplished through a silver catheter, the opening of which is securely plugged, and the instrument left in the bladder to serve as a guide during the latter part of the operation; or it may be taken out, and a stafl' introduced for the same purpose. This operation should only be used in cases where the urine is healthy; it is not likely to suit in cases of long- standing stricture, or enlarged prostate. In septic cases, a free drain is essential for the patient's safety. The patient rests flat on his back on a table, with his shoulders slightly raised. His legs are not allowed to hang over the endSuf'£'2ca/, Medical, and Opej-ative. 423 of tho table, as this would make the recti tense. The preliminaiy preparations are the same as in the lateral operation, hut a dis- tensible basr should be introduced into the rectum to push the bladder forwards and upwards, and also to steady it. The Surgeon stands on the side he deems most convenient, and makes an incision two and a half or three inches long in the median line, immediately above, and partly over the pubes, so as to reach that part of the bladder which is uncovered by peritoneum. Tn cutting down to the bladder at this point, the Stcucturea divided are—(1) Tlie skin; (2) the superficial fascia; (3) the sheath of the recti. Next, the adjoining edges of the recti and pyra- midales are separated; and then, with the finger or the handle of the knife, separate the loose cellular and fatty tissue, and divide (4) the transversalis fascia, and the anterior surface of the bladder is exposed. Make out, if possible, the reflection of the peritoneum, and then depress the handle of the staff which is in the bladder so as to project its point above the pubes, and open the bladder by cutting down upon this as guide. The opening is then enlarged downwards, the forceps introduced, and the stone extracted. The wound may then be closed, both in the abdomen and in the bladder, provided the urine be healthy, and the urine drained oft' by a siphon, per urethram ; but both must be left open if the urine be septic, and a drainage tube passed into the fundus of the bladder, and left there for a week or ten days; the patient mean- while resting as much as possible on his side, to favour drainage, and he should change from side to side every six hours. When the bladder wound is stitched up, the Lembert suture should be employed, taking care to go beyond the angles of the incision at each eiid, in order to prevent leakage. In the case of male children, Professor Annandale introduces a lithotrite to grasp the stone and project it against the anterior abdomiual wall. A small incision is then made over it, and the blades forced through the wound, and the stone removed. A Xo. 7 india-rubber catheter is next seized by the lithotrite and drawn into the bladder, along the urethra, and left there. The abdominal wound is then stitched up, and a drainage tube intro- duced. In forty-eight hours botli drainage tube and catheter are removed. Before beginning the operation, four ounces of a warm424 Applied Anatomy. solution of mercuric chloride—1 in 4000—is injected into the bladder, and during the operation the wound is irrigated with a solution of 1 in 2000. The advantages of this method are— (1) Tlie urethra, prostate, and neck of bladder are left uninjured; and (2) its simplicity does away with the risks of lateral lithotomy in children. This plan is best adapted for children, Avhere the bladder is an abdominal organ. The great trouble of this operation is the difficulty about easy and free drainage. Many plans are adopted—(1) An ordinary tube, aided by the position of the patient. (2) Drainage has been attempted, by adopting the principle of Sprengel's air-pump. (3) Professor Chienb uses a glass tube, Avith a bundle of worsted threads inside, so as to suck the urine up, in the same Avay as the wick of a lamp sucks up the oil. A dry antiseptic sponge is placed over the upper end of the tube and worsted threads, and this in turn absorbs the urine, and is then squeezed dry from time to time, either by the patient liimself or his attendant. The threads might be elongated, encased in an india-rubber tube, and allowed to hang over the side of the bed, and drijj into a vessel placed there. (4) A tube may be passed by the urethra, and the urine drawn off by siphon action. The chief dangers of this operation are—(1) The risk of in- filtration of urine into the cellular tissue of the wound; (2) the risk of wounding the peritoneum; and (3) the chance of setting up kidney mischief, such as suppurative pyelonephritis. RESUME of this operation:— ' 1. The patient is placed on his back on the table, his shoulders slightly raised, the pubes shaved, and the parts carefully washed with 1 in 20. 2. A catheter is then passed, the urine drawn off, the bladder washed out with warm boracic, if thought necessary, and then fully distended with the same fluid; the penis is then secured by an india-rubber band, or tape, to prevent the escape of the fluid. If a silver catheter be used, it may be plugged and left in to act as a guide. When the rectal bag is used, teji or twelve ounces will probably be enough.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 425 3. Oil and introduce the rectal elastic bag, and fill it with warm horacic lotion; do not use too great force, lest the wall of the rectum be ruptured; eight to twelve ounces in the adult, and three to four ounces in the child, is the quantity usually required. This bag raises the floor of the bladder almost to the level of the upper edge of the pubes, so that it comes well within the reach of the operator. ■i. Make an incision two and a half or three inclies long in the linea alba, and partly over the pubes ; this divides skin and fat, and exposes the linea alba. 5. Open the linea alba near the pubes, between the pyra- midales, and, if thought necessary, divide the rest of the linea on Spence's hernia director; next divide the fascia transversalis in a similar manner. 6. Hold the sides of the wound apart by broad cojjper spatuliG, and then, wdth the handle of the knife and finger, tease through the loose connective tissue and fat, and define the posterior surface of the pubes, the wall of the bladder, and the peritoneal reflection, which should be pushed up. 7. Having recognised tlie bladder by its muscular fibres, pass two silk stitches, one on each side of the middle line, through its muscular coat only, so as to hold it forwards and prevent its collapse and retraction behind the pubes Avhen opened : two sharp hooks may be used instead of stitches. 8. Having thus secured the bladder, plunge a scalpel into it, with its edge towards the pubic bone, about an inch and a half above the pubes, quickly withdraw the knife, and insert a finger to plug the opening and ascertain the size of the stone. 9. The opening is then to be dilated sufficiently with the finger, the forcep.s introduced, and the atone withdrawn. LITHOTRITY. In this operation the stone is crushed in the bladder, and the pulverised fragments expelled or extracted through the urethrix.42G Applied A iia/oiiiy : The instinimeut used for this purpose is called a Tifhafriie. The operation was formerly performed at several sittings, and the shorter these sittings were the better, because the long continued contact of instruments with the mucous membrane of the bladder is apt to produce cystitis, leading to pyasmia, or even death. At tlie first sitting the stone was simply crushed and the fragments were left to be pulverised and extracted at subsequent sittings. ]!ut the crushed stone thus left is apt to produce great irritation in the mucous membrane of the bladder, and, unless care be taken in the treatment of the patient between the sittings, small fragments of the stone are apt to be driven into the neck of the bladder, or even into the urethra, causing great pain and injury to the tissues; and, even with the greatest care in the fiwd explnmtion, small fragments were apt to be left, which formed the nuclei of subsequent calculi. About the year 1882 a new operation was introduced, called Litholapaxy, by Bigelow, who was the first to plan and carry out the operation. For its performance the following special instruments are required—(1) A lithotrite, (2) a large evacuation catheter, and (3) an aspirating siiDhou. The following advantages were claimed by Bigelow for this operation—(1) The stone is crushed and removed at a single sitting, so that the bladder is thus freed from the irritation caused by small fragments of stone retained in its interior for a lengthened period, and the urethra is also freed from the irritation of their possible f)assage between the sittings (as in lithotrity); and further, the fragments are completely removed, so that none are left to form the nuclei of subsequent calculi; (2) the lock of the Utliotrite whicb he used was more easily closed than in the ordinary lithotrite, being shut by a simple turn of the wrist M'ithout dis- placing the hands, and the blades are so formed that they allow of the easy escape of detritus, so that laceration of the neck of the bladder is prevented in the withdrawal of the instrument; and (3) the stone need not be pnlrerised, because (4) the catheter used is very large, its inventor taking advantage of the fact that the urethra admits of great dilatation. Tliis is the operation that is always performed now, under the name of Lithotrity'at a single sitting—the old lithotrity427 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. is a thing of tlio past. In the groat majority of cases of stnne, lithotrity is tho operation performed for thoir cure; according to Sir Henry Thomson, it is operation for nine-tenths of adult cases of stone, and may even bo used for chiklren as well. Tiie special instruments rerpiired are—(1) A set of large evacuating catheters, (2) an exhausting syringe, and (3) a lithotrite. Conditions Necessary for Crushing—(1) A bladder not too irritable; it must be able to retain at least three or four ounces of urine. (2) The kidneys, prostate, and urethra healthy; there nnist be no stricture of the urethra present. (3) The patient must not be too young; under ten or fifteen years, lithotomy is usually to be preferred. (4) The stone must not be too large or too hard; the si/e, however, is not of so much moment, but a very hard stone is a serious objection. (5) Several calculi are rather against crushing, especially if they are hard. The patient is placed on his back on a firm mattress or table, with Ins pelvis raised above the level of the shoulders by a ftrm pad, three or four inches thick, so that the stone may roll to the posterior surface of the bladder from its i^oucli behind the prostate; a pillow is placed under his head, and his thighs are separated so that his knees are about a foot apart. In children, and in cases of enlarged prostate, it may be necessary to raise the pelvis a couple of inches more. The Surgeon stands on the right side of the patient, as he holds the lithotrite with his left hand and works the screw with the right. An anaesthetic should be ailministered. The urine is first drawn off by a hollow sound or catheter, and then four or five ounces of tepid carbolised water is slowly injected; the urine is drawn off to enable the Surgeon to tell how much fluid there is in the bladder. Too much is bad, because the stone readily moves about and " dodges" the lithotrite; yet it must contain a fair amount to prevent the mucous membrane from being grasped by the lithotrite, or being injured by splinters of the stone. To pass tlie Litliotrite.^—-The Surgeon may stand in the usual catheter position (the left side) till it has passed, then he must come to the right side; or, if he so prefer, he can stand on the right aide all the time. The lithotrite is warmed and oiled and the lilados closed and pointed downwards; the penis is then i-aisedApplied Anatomy: 428 by the left hand and drawn over the lithotrite, which is held almost parallel with the abdomen at this stage. It thus descends to the bulb, the shaft becoming gradually perpendicular: it is not to be depressed at this stage, as is usual when passing a catheter, as this would make the blades impinge upon the upper wall of the urethra in front of the triangular ligament, and probably rupture the urethra. It is kept perpendicular and allowed almost to pass by its own weight till the point reaches the prostatic urethra, and then the handle is depressed and the instrument enters the bladder. To catch the Stone two plans may be adopted—(1) To make the lithotrite hunt for the stone (Civiale's, or the Continental plan). The stone is first felt by the closed lithotrite, which is then opened and the blades turned down upon the stone, just as a bird picks up a stone with its beak; this method may be necessary occasionally in picking up stones behind an enlarged prostate, but is not so good as the next method. (2) To make the stone come to the lithotrite (Brodie's, or the English method). The lithotrite is never shifted from the mesial plane; it rests in the middle line, the blades are then opened wide, the under one depressed when the stone rolls into its grasp. The stone must not be crushed in this position, but the lithotrite must first be raised, to make sure that no mucous membrane is grasped; it is then screwed home gradually and completely. The instrument must never be withdrawn till the blades are screwed completely home, otherwise fragments are left between the blades which lacerate the neck of the bladder and urethra. The fragments are then removed by means of the large evacuating catheters and aspirating siphon. Calculus in the Female.— Stone is of rare occurrence in women. When it does occur, it may be removed—(1) By Lithectasy, i.e., through the dilated urethra, dilated eitlier— (fl) by a sponge tent, or special dilator, or (ft) by incising the mucous membrane. (2) By Lithotomy — (ft) the supra - pubic operation, as in the male; {ji) the urethral operation, by introducing a grooved staff and cutting along it into the bladder; or (';) the vaginal operation, by cutting through the anterior wall of the vagina and the base of the bladder, (3) By Lithotrity, or Lltholapaxy.Snrg-ical, Medical, and Operative. 429 CHAPTER XLIL THE P E L V I ^—(GonUnued). THE URETHRA. Length.—The length of this caual in the male is from eight to uiue inches J in the female it is only about an inch and a half in length, and corresponds, as we have seen, to the prostatic portion of the male urethra. Divisions.—In the male it is divided into three parts, {a) The prostatic portion. This part is about au inch and a quarter in length, and passes almost directly downwards, but slightly forwards. It is situated about the middle of the prostate gland, but rather nearer its anterior surface, and is in front of the middle lobe. In connection with it we notice the following parts :—(1) As it opens into the bhidder there is a transverse fold of mucous membrane, called the " uvula vesicae." (2) Continuous with this, there is a median ridge, called the crest of the urethra, cajjut galUnagliiis or veramoutauum, (3) On either side of this crest there is a depression called the prostatic sinus, and in it may be seen the openings of numerous prostatic ducts. (4) At the summit of the crest there is a median opening called the sinus pocidaris; and (o) at each side in the walls of the sinus are seen the openings of the common ejaculatonj ducts, (b) The membranous portion.— Tlie length of this part is—anterior wall, three-quarters of an inch; posterior wall, half-au-inch. It is directed forwards and downwards, but more downwards than forwards, extending from the apex of tlie prostate gland to the bulbous portion of the urethra, and is contained between the two layers of the triangular ligament, the anterior layer of which it pierces, and is about an inch below the symphysis pubis. It is surrounded by the compressorApplied Anatomy: urctlirii' muscle, and is the most IVcquoiiL suat of fHHumfxlir stricture. Spasmodic stricture, however, may occur at auy jiart of tlic membrauous or peuile portion of the urethra, for the urethra is as truly a muscular tube as the oesophagus, and, like it, has a complete muscular coat, (r) The spongy portion.—The posterior part of this portion is sometimes called the htdbons poHioit, from tlie fact that it is surrounded by the bulb of the uretlmv (whicli is simply the dilated posterior part of the corpus spongiosum, just as the glans penis is the dilated anterior part). The length of the spongy portion is from live to six inches (the bulbous part occupies about an inch of this). The direction of this part necessarily varies with the state of the penis; the bulb, however, is the loAvest part of the whole canal, and into it the ducts of CuwrER's glands open. Tlie bulb is, further, the most frequent seat of organic stricture, probably because, lieing the lowest part, the inflammatory products tend to accumulate at this point. Along the floor of the spongy l)ortiou proper numerous mucous follicles open, their orifices being directed to\vards the meatus; there is also a large one in the roof of that part of the urethra situated in the glans penis, called the lacuna magna, and this one must be avoided in passing smaU catheters. When these lacunic inflame and suppurate, the abscess thus formed will be in the middle line, thus diflering from abscesses due to inflammation of Cowper's glands. Size and Shape of the Urethra.—The urethra, as wo have already pointed out, admits of consideralde dilatation, so that no exact measurement is obtainable of its absolute size; we can, Iiowever, compare the size of one part with another. The most distensible part is the prostatic urethra. When closed, it is siin])ly a slit—at the anterior part, the slit is revtical; further back, tlie slit is Iransvcrt^c: Avhile in the prostatic portion, the slit is curced, with its concavity downwards, as seen on transverse section. It is narroM-est at the meatus, and the next narrowest part is at the junction of the membranous with the spongy portion—/>., as it l)ierces the triangular ligament (anterior layer). If the jirostaltc [lart be distended it is seen to be fusiform in shape, being widest in the middle and a little contracted at each end; the inemhranoits portion is the narrowest. The bulbous part of the spongy portion is dilated; it then grows somewhat smaller, but expands again niSurgical, .Uiuh't-dl, aiul Operative. 431 the glans penis to form the fossa iiaviculaiis, and then contracts to form the meatus. Tlie widest parts of tlio tuljc are (a) the centre of tlie prostatic portion, {b) the bulbous portion, and (r) tlie fossa navicuhiris—in tliis order from behind forwards. Curves of the Urethra.—In the Haccid condition of tlie penis, the general course of the urethra somewhat resembles the letter 8 lying on its side; but when the penis is erect the anterior cuitc is obliterated, and hence this is called the temporanj curve. Tlie penaancut curve, however, renuuns under all circumstances, and we have thus two curves—(1) tlie temporary, and (2) the jjer- nianent; and to this latter the curve of the catheter con-esj^onds. The permanent curve is maintained by—(«) The pelvic fascia, fixing the neck of the bladder and the prostate gland; {h) the connection of tlie root of the penis witli the pubes by means of the suspensory ligament of the penis; (r) the two layers of tlic triangidar ligament fixing the membranous part; and (d) the con- nection of the base of the triangular ligament witli the superficial fascia of the perineum, and through it to the " central point of the 2)erineuni." It is of importance to remember tliat, with the finger ill the rectum, the anterior layer of tlie triangular ligament, the membranous part of the urethra, prostate gland, and cA'cn the base of the bladder beyond, may be felt. Tliese parts are more easily distinguished if a catheter be previously introduced; and in this way the fact of having made a false passage may be detected, the catheter not being found in the bladder, nor bearing the proper relation to the parts in (piestion. To be right, the catheter should be felt exactly in the middle line, with the prostate gland and the rectal wall between it and the finger; in false passages it will probably not be iu the middle line, and the finger will recognise only a linn layer of tissue between it and the catheter. The mucous membrane of the urethra is supplied by the jDudie nerve. To pass a Catheter in the Male.—The patient is placed on his back in bed, lying perfectly straight, with the upper and lower parts of his Ijody well covered; the Surgeon stands on the patient's left side. .See first that the catheter is well cleaned, by forcing a stream of carbolic lotion through it by means of a syringe, being specially careful of the eye of the instrument, about which dirt is apt lo Indgi-; it must ne.\t be slightly warmed andApplied Anatomy: 432 oiled. It is now held between the thumb and two hugets of the right hand, and directed ubliij^ucly across the patient's left groin, a little above and parallel with the skin, and also parallel with Poupart's ligament; the penis is then steadied with the left hand, and the point of the catheter passed lour or five inches down the urethra, the handle being gradually brought up to the middle line till it lies parallel with the liuca alba, and also with the surface of the abdomen. The handle is next to be brought gradually downwards from the linea alba towards the interval between tlie patient's thighs, and when the point is in the bladder it will Fig. 218. A False Passage. Ti-iaugular Ligament—, I'rostiite Gland. Rectum. Catheterin False Passage. almost lie parallel with the thighs. When the bulbous portion is approached, be specially careful to keep the point of tlie instrument against the upper wall of the urethra; and should any difftculty be experienced, gently puU forward the root of the scrotum, which wUl steady the bulbous portion. If it still sticks, after it has entered the membranous portion, oil the left inde.x finger and pass it into the rectum, while the thumb is placed against the perineum, to steady and direct the catheter. In this way, the point can be held against the upper wall; as long as the catheter is in the middle line, and the pad of prostaticSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 433 tissue felt between it and the finger, all is well. It is only when the point of the catheter is allowed to press against the lower wall that false passages are made (Fig. 218). Above all, force must not be used, and there must be no " milking" of the penis. When the operation is completed, give the patient a warm drink, and make him comfortable in bed for a little. To pass a Catheter in the Female.—The patient should not, if possible, be exposed. She is to be laid on her back, and the operator stands on her right side; her right leg is to be flexed, the sole resting on the bed or couch. A tube, five feet in length, should be attached to the catheter, so that the urine may flow dii-ectly into a receptacle placed on the floor; the end of this tube should be passed beneath the patient's flexed leg. The operator then passes his right hand under the jjatient's right leg, and places the index finger in the fold bet^yeen the labia, a little in front of the anus, and glides it forwards gently till he feels it entering the orifice of the vagina, and in bringing it a little further forward, always in the middle line, the point of the finger comes into contact with the urethra, which is thus gently steadied between it and the pubic arch. The other hand is then passed over the patient's thigh with the catheter, the point of which is slid along the palmar surface of the index finger placed against the urethra, till it enters that orifice, when it can easily be pushed on to the bladder, as the canal is so short and straight. The only difliculty is to strike the meatus by touch alone. The operation may be performed from the left side, if preferred. Some use the clitoris as the guide for the orifice, but I believe that the way described is much better in every way. Stricture of the Urethra :— 1. Spasmodic, either alone, as from reflex irritation, or complicating congestive or organic stricture. 2. Inflammatory or Congestive, from swelling of mucous membrane, as in the retention of acute gonorrhoea. 3. Organic.—This alone will not cause complete retention; cither spasm or acute inflammation, or both, must be superadded. For this reason, therefore, the flrst thing is, not to pass a catheter, but to give the patient a hot *2 EApplied Anatomy: 434 sitz bath to get rid of the spasm, just as steam is used in croup; and if that is not enough, use a morphia suppository, or some preparation of morphia and bella- donna, and a dose of bromide of potassium, put him in a warm bed, and apply fomentations to his perineum. Lastly, if all fail, try to pass a ISTo. 9, or even larger, rigid catheter in the way already described; if you fail in the ordinary way, then put the patient under cMoroform and try again. It is usual to use the Trench olivary catheters to start with, and should they fail, to use silver instruments. Should this also fail, tliree courses are open—(1) To aspirate above the pubes, (2) tap per rectum, or (3) open the membranous urethra by Mr Spence's method. As a rule, the first is to be preferred. Organic Stricture is due to the organisation of a plastic exu- dation thrown out into the submucous tissue; this is transformed into fibrous tissue, which gradually contracts and closes the canal. The usual causes are—(1) Inflammation (usually gonorrhoeal, but may occasionally follow non-specific urethritis). (2) Traumatism, as rupture of the urethra from falling across a spar with the legs apart, when the urethra is snapped across between the pubic arch and the spar; in this case it is the bulbous part of the lu'ethra that is injured. The urethra is also frequently injured in fractures of the pelvis, but in this case it is the membranous part that suffers. The traumatic stricture is the worst of all forms, and is very frequently situated in the membranous part of the urethra; probably 99 per cent, arise from gonorrhoea. Locality.—According to Sir Henry Thomson—(a) 67 per cent, are found near the junction of the bulbous with the membranous portion; (5) at or near the external orifice, 17 per cent.; (c) 16 per cent. betAveen these two points. It is well to note that stricture is not found in the prostatic part of the urethra; examiners find some difficulty in believing in the existence of prostatic stricture, notwithstanding they are told of it so repeatedly. In fact, it is a physical impossibility, because the inflammatory process roimd the urethra in the substance of the prostate produces fibrous tissue, which as usual tends to contract; but as the capsule of tlio prostite435 Surgical, Median/, and Operative. is more resistant than the mucous membrane, it contracts toimrds the capsule as the fixed point, and will therefore actually dilate the urethra, just as cirrhosis of the lung produces bronchiectatic cavities for the same reason. Signs.—One of the earliest signs of stricture is frequency of micturition, especially at night; this may be accompanied with a gleety discharge and dribbling at the end of micturition. Some- times also there is a difficulty in beginning to pass water. There are also changes in the size, shape, and direction of the stream— it may be forked or spiral, or go suddenly to one side. This is because the presence of the stricture does not allow a stream to pass, large enough to distend the meatus, on which its size and shape depend. Then from some slight cause, as cold, wliisky, etc., comes complete retention, from the superadded inflammation and spasm. Retention of Urine.—In children, retention is usually due to the impaction of a calculus at either of the narrow jiarts of the uretlira, or malignant disease of the prostate, sometimes to a string tied round the penis. In newly-born children, it may depend on a contracted orifice of the prepuce. In young men, it is usually due to urethritis, simple prostatitis, or abscess. In middle-aged men, usually to organic stricture, lolus con- gestion or spasm. In elderly men, it is usually from congestion of an enlarged prostate, or from atomy due to an enlarged prostate, or to old organic stricture. True Atony must be distinguished from paralysis : in atony, it is the muscle that is primarily at fault, not the nerves. It will also depend on the vitality of the person, for the obstruction that would hypertrophy a healthy bladder will dilate and render a weakly one atonic. When the bladder is much distended, we may get cedema of the legs, from pressure on the iliac veins. In retention from atony, the catheter enters easily, and the urine flows out in a slow, uniform stream, and is not projected by the contraction of the detrusor, the only variations being due to the respiratory movements and to the abdominal muscles. A very important caution is necessary here. In pressing over the bladder4,36 Applied Anatomy: witli the hand to expel the nriue, the Surgeon must on no account relax his j^ressure in the slightest degree till the catheter is with- draiun from the urethra completely, otherwise the abdominal muscles spring back, the intra-abdominal pressure is lessened, and air is driven up the catheter into the bladder, probably carrying septic micro-organisms with it. In retention from obstruction, tlie catheter enters with diffi- culty, but when once in, the urine is projected with considerable force, and is not influenced by the respiratory movements. A very fidl bladder should not be emptied all at once, lest it cause shock and fatal depression; draw off" forty ounces, let the patient rest an hour, and then draw off the rest. Incontinence of Urine. — True incontinence is of very rare occurrence, and is only found when the nerves of the bladder are injured. It is found in cases where a segment of the spiual cord is destroyed by disease or injury, usually about two weeks after the injur3^ The urine dribbles passively away as fast as it is secreted; active incontinence often occurs in boys at night during sleep, and in these cases always examine the penis for congenital lihimosis, adhesions of the prepuce to the glans, or accumulation of secretions under the prepuce about the corona glandis. Active incontinence in a child by day indicates great ii'ritability of the bladder, by night it rather shows atony of the sphincter—for the first, remove sources of irritation and try belladonna; but for the second, strychnia. The so - called " incontinence" of enlarged prostate, is not incontinence at all, but is simply the dribbling from an over - distended bladder, as the great pressure within opens up the neck of the viscus, and allows the urine to dribble through. Persistent dribbling in boys is also caused by stone, especially when coupled with a long prepuce, and by very tight traumatic strictures. In examining an unknown urethra to ascer- tain the existence, or otherwise, of stricture, always begin ^vith a good-sized instrument—say, No. 8. I will only but very briefly indicate the Treatment. In most cases dilatation by the ordinary method will be found sufficient— in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred. An instrument as large as the patient can comfortably bear is passed the first day; then at intervals of from three to four days larger sizes are passed, till theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 437 mcjatus will aduiit of no larger size—porliaps from 14 to IG, Englisli size, or even larger. The instruments are taken out as soon as passed, and after getting a Avarm drink, and lialf-an-hour to an hour's horizontal rest, tlie patient may be allowed to depart; it is well to warn him, on the first occasion, that he M'ill find the stricture worse the following day (from the inflammatory effusion), hut hy the third day he Avill he all right. In passing catheters the rule is — to pass the size below the largest one passed on the paticnVs previous visit, and never to miss a size. During the passage of instruments the patient must he covered as far as possible—a blanket over his chest and abdomen, and another over his legs and feet—only leaving the upper part of the thighs exposed. After their passage he should then get a warm drink, and be allowed to rest in bed. He ought also to be told to keep his water as long as j^ossible after they have been passed, lest there should be an abrasion about the urethra. With these precautions, the risk of " urinary fever" is much lessened. Tor the same reason, some Surgeons give a dose of quinine a short time before the passage of instruments. Resilient Stricture. — By this is meant strictures that very readdy dilate up to the full size, but very speedily return again to the contracted condition. In this case it is impossible and useless to treat them by the above method. It Avas for such as these that Mr Holt introduced his method of "sphtting " the stricture by a special wedge-shaped instrument. The risk is that the mucous membrane of the uretlira Avill also be split, and leave a surface for septic absorption, and it may be foUoAved by serious or even fatal clfects. Relapse after this treatment is very speedy and common, as the ncAv cicatrix contracts faster than the original filnmis stricture. Syme's Operation of External Urethrotomy—sometimes called " Perineal Section."—1'his ujethod of external urethrotomy is employed in obstinate cases of stricture, Avherc there are at the same time large and numerous fistulse, and great induration of the perineum, and the condition refuses to improve after a fair trial of rest, and draAving olf the urine by the catheter. Strictly speaking, the name of " perineal section " should be applied to cases Avhere the urethra is cut down upon Avithout a guide passed into the bladder—e.g., Wheelhouse's operation.438 Applied Anato 111)1: Tlie instruments required are—A sharp-pointed "bistoury; No. 10 catheters, silver and gum-elastic, and red rubber tubing to fit the catheter; probes, straight and curved; Syme's grooved and shouldered staff (Fig. 219), lithotomy tapes, a large number of "Wells's forceps, ligatures, sponges, etc. The tliick part of the staff is about the thickness of a No. 11 catheter; the slender part, No. .3, or less. Tlie patient is tied up in the lithotomy position, and the perineum shaved. The staff is passed before tying up, making sure that it is in the bladder by passing the finger into the rectum and feeling. The assistants required are the same as in lithotomy. The lower half of the staff is slender and grooved, but the upper part is of full size, and the shoulder, where the two parts meet, rests firmly against the face of the stricture, while the slender part passes through it into tlie bladder. The groove extends over the shoulder, and on to the thick jiart of the staff for a little way. An assistant holds the staff in his right hand, and draws up the scrotum with his left; and the operator, seated on a low stool facing the patient's buttocks, satisfies himself that the staff is in the bladder, and then makes an incision in the median rapln', from above downwards, about two inches long, and continues the dissection till he can distinguish the shoulder of the staff, which is the guide to tlie stricture. He then takes a shari), straight bistoury in his right hand, and holds the staff with his left, enters the point of the knife into the groove in the staff, with its edge upwards, at the posterior part of the Avound, about one inch below the shoulder, and cuts upwanh through the stricture; he next withdraws the staff about a quarter of an inch and extends the incision that much further forwards. If the strictiire has been completely divided the thick part of the staff may now be passed through it; the staff is then withdrawn, and a large gum-elastic catheter (10 or 12) passed and tied into the bladder, and a siphon arrangement attached to it, by which the urine is continuously drained off. It will be noticed that the point of the knife is guided to the groove by the index finger of the hand holding the knife, and not as in lithotomy. The knife rests against the finger, while the finger tip rests against the groove on the staff, and the knife is slid forwards by a movementSurgical, Medical, atid Operative. 439 Observe the exact extent of the Groove.Applied Anatomy: 440 of the tlnimb and second finger. A morphia suppository is then introduced, and the patient made comfortable in bed. At the end of forty-eight hours the catlieter is withdrawn, and about three days later a full-sized bougie is passed—I believe Mr Syme himself passed a specially-constructed catheter througb the perineal tcound, and not an ordinary catheter through the penis. Later, a bougie is i^assed once a week or once every two Aveeks, as circumstances may require. This operation may also be used instead of Holt's plan, in resilient stricture; the great advantage is that it gives the dilatation a good start, a full-sized instrument being passed at once, and all that is to do is to keep it from contracting again. Wheelhouse's Operation, or " Perineal Section:"— Definition.—Opening the urethra at a healthy part about one quarter of an inch in front of the stricture, passing a probe through tbe stricture, and then dividing it from before backwards. Instruments. — Lithotomy tapes, special grooved staff with a button-like end, scalpel, two pairs of forceps, nibbed at the point, artery forceps, director, probe, gorget, silver catlieter (jSTo. 10) with elastic tube attached. The patient is tied up in the litbotomy, position, tbe staff is passed and made to rest against the stricture, and tbe urethra opened a quarter of an inch in front of this through healthy urethra. Then grasp the edges of the divided urethra with the nibbed forceps, and bold apart; and next with- draw tbe staff a little, turn round, and hook the button-like end against the upper angle of the wound. ]N"ow pass the probe tbrongli the urethra into the bladder, divide the stricture, and pass tbe blunt gorget through the groove on the director, and on this the catheter is guided into the bladder. The catheter is passed from the meatus doAvn to the wound, and then the gorget guides it into the bladder. Note these three operations—(1) Syme's, Avhcrc a grooved stafl is passed througb the stricture, the urethra opened behind, and the stricture divided from behind forwards. (2) Wheelhouse's, where the urethra is opened in front, a grooved probe passed, and the stricture divided from before backwards. (3) Spence's or Cock's (see vol. ii., page 467), where the urethra is opened behind the stricture, the stricture itself being left untouched, hoping tliat the induration and the swelling will disappear and the stricture441 Surgical, Alcdical, and Operative. relax. The first two operations may be used in cases of stricture, complicated Avitli uriuary abscess and extravasation, etc.—Syme'.s, wlien a staff can be introduced; and "Wiieelhouse's when no staff can be passed through the stricture. In both be careful to keep exactly in the middle line. Observe that neither Spence's nor Cock's operation can be used in cases of extravasation of urine, since in performing these operations it is imperative that the membranous urethra should be fully distended with urine. To Tie in a Catlieter.—1. A Silver Catheter.—The catheter must be tied to the pelvis. (1) Tie a single turn of broad bandage round the pelvis. (2) Then take two pieces of narrower bandage and pass them round the thigh at the groin, under the perineum, loop them round the waist band, and fasten them before and behind. (3) Through each eye of the catheter pass a jjiece of tape, and fasten them in the middle, so as to have two equal tails on each side. (4) Fasten these, one in front and one behind, to the jierineal loops, taking great care that they are all equally tigbt. (5) Plug the opening of the catheter. Take care that the catheter does not project into the bladder, lest, as the bladder is empty, the mucous coat be pressed against the instrument and ulcerate; the catheter should have a very short point, and the eye should just enter the bladder. There are many modifications of the above plan : thus, by splitting a bandage properly, the Avaist band and the perineal bands may be made of one piece; or the perineal bands may be passed through the rings of the catheter and then fastened to the waist band, the anterior end being tied to the waist band by a single knot leaving a free tail, while the other end is brought round the thigh and tied to this tail. 2. A Soft Catheter.—The soft catheter is to be fastened to the pcnix, and should be used in preference to the silver instrument. (1) ]^ncircle the point of the penis with a strip of boracic lint. (2) Tie a cord round the catheter a little beyond the end of the penis, and carry the two ends backwards, one on each side of the glans penis. (3) Cut a strip of adhesive plaster, about an inch and a half broad, and long enough to encircle the penis two or three times, and apply it lightly, but firmly, over the ends of the cords behind the glans, carrying the cords forwards after the first442 Applied Aiiatoiiiy: turn is applied, to prevent it slipping. (4) Plug the catheter. In some cases it may be possible to tie the ends of the .string to a bimclle of pubic hairs on eachi side. In passing a gum-elastic catheter, it is better to make it rigid for the time being, as the Surgeon then possesses greater control over the instrument. To do so, the ijlan used by Professor Chiene is to pass a cylindrical metal bougie, a size or two smaller than the gum-elastic instrument, into its interior, till it is passed, when the metal bougie is withdrawn. The ordinary stylet, sold witb the gum-elastic catheters, is useless for this purpose. RESUME of the treatment of organic stricture:— 1. In the usual form of simple non-irritable stricture, where the patient cannot conveniently be confined to the house, use the usual method of dilatation by wedge- shaped bougies (Lister's). This method can usually be adopted in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred (see vol. ii., page 437). 2. If the patient can lie up in bed, and is in a hurry to get well, or in cases where the instruments can only be passed with difficulty, tie in a soft gum-elastic in- strument; fix it to the i}enis, and sac that it does not project too far into tlie bladder, the eye alone should just enter the bladder. As soon as one instrument becomes loose introduce another. 3. For severe, irritable, indurated, and resilient strictures, Holt's method of "si^litting" is usually advised; if this plan be used it is better to pass a catheter into the bladder for twenty-four hours and draw off the water, lest the mucous membrane be torn, or tie in a flexible instrument. Holt's method, I believe, should be avoided as far as possible, and Syjie's method substituted for it. 4. In tight cartilaginous and in irritable stricture, with induration in the perineum, along with abscesses and fistulee, use Syme's method of external urethrotomy; and if an instrument cannot be introduced, operate on "VVheelhouse's ijrinciplc—"perineal section."Snrgu-(i/, Medical, and Operative. Ill covtain forms penile strictures, internal urethrotomy, cutting from behind forwards, may be adopted; after this tic in a catheter to keep the cut surface free from uriuo, and lessen the risk of " urinary fever." 13. In many cases Professor Annan DALE prefers the method of combined external and internal division. A !N'o. 2 catheter is passed tlirough the stricture into the bladder, and then a free incision is made in the middle line, behind the most posterior stricture. The catheter is next removed, and the grooved staff of a urethrotome is passed along the urethra; the urethrotome used closely resembles Maissonneuve's instrument. The knife of the urethrotome is now passed along the groove of the staff, and all the strictures divided. After this, pass a Xo. 12 catheter, and keep it in for twenty-four hours. The advantages of this method are—(1) The complete and accurate division of all the strictured parts; and (2) the ease with which the oj)eration can be accomplished. In treating stricture cases for the first time, it is important to avoid, as far as possible, the risks from " urinary fever":— 1. The patient should rest in bed for a week or ten days if possible, and have his diet restricted to milk and soda-water. 2. In passing the bougie, aU unnecessary exposure should be avoided, and his legs and chest covered with blankets to keej^ him warm. 3. See that the instruments passed are i^erfectly clean, as many Surgeons arc inclined to say, and with truth, that "urinary fever" is often nothing more than " dirty catheter fever," 4. As soon as the instruments arc passed, the patient is carefully covered up in bed, and should at once get a warm drink. 5. He should be directed to keep his water as long as possible after this, lest the catheter may have caused some slight abrasion of the mucous membrane.444 Applied Anatomy: After the Surgeon knows the urethra, if tliorc be great pain iu passing instruments, a cocaine bougie should be introduced five or ten minutes before they are to be passed. Haemorrhage is one of tlie chief dangers of internal urethrotomy, at any part of the canal, but especially if the section involve the upper wall of the membranous urethra; here the dorsal vein of the penis may be wounded, or the plexus of Saxtorini, into which it empties (Fenwick). When this happens the blood pours from the prostatic and vesical venous plexuses, as well as from the internal iliac veins, as the valves are very often incompetent. THE PROSTATE GLAND. This gland is situated behind and below the pubes, embraciug the neck of the bladder, and lying against the anterior wall of the rectum, the recto-vesical layer of j^elvic fascia being the only Fig. 220. The Prostate. Tl structure that is interposed between the two. In size and .shape it resembles a chestnut. It is closely connected with the anterior and lateral true ligaments of the bladder (pelvic fascia), which join it at its upper part, and for this reason the anterior ligament is called, at this point, the " pubo-prostatic" ligament. It is this fascial layer that we must on no account pass beyond in making the incision in lateral lithotomy, otherwise the operation will be followed by infiltration of urine into the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue of the pelvis. Between the two pubo-prostatic ligaments is the dorsal vein of the penis. It has also attached to it the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle, these fibres being called, for this reason, the " levator prostati." It consists of three lobes—a median445 Stirg-ical, Medical, and Operative and two lateral. The middle lobe is tlie smallest of the three, ami lies immediately below the prostatic portion of the urethra; it is pyriform in shape, and wheu prominent the base projects into the bladder, forming the mmla vesicce. From base to apex the prostate measures twelve to fourteen lines in the adult, and from the apex at the membranous portion of the urethra downwards and outwards it measures three or four lines more; it is in this latter direction that the incision is made in lateral lithotomy—both because we get more room, and also because the incision is not likely to injure the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. Its usual size is an inch and a half in the transverse diameter at the base, an inch and a quarter in its antero-posterior, and nearly an inch in thickness. In elderly men the prostate frequently becomes enlarged, and it is the middle lobe in some cases that seems to enlarge most, or the enlargement of which gives rise to the most serious consequences. This is probably partly from its position, as it wiU tend to grow in the direction of least resistance, that is, up into the base of the bladder. According to Sir Henry Thomson, a measurement of two inches from side to side, and a weight of one ounce, means hypertrophy: the usual weight is about six drachms. The results of the enlargement are:—(1) A poucli is formed behind the projection, so that the urine tends to dribble away after it has passed in a full stream; in many cases, also, the urine lies in the pouch, and cannot be entirely expelled, and the unexpelled portion soon becomes decomposed and amnioniacal, and irritates the mucous membrane of the bladder, leading to chronic cystitis. (2) The projecting part may overlap the orifice of the urethra (which is normally the loicest point of the bladder), and act like a valve, preventing the passage of the urine through the urethral orifice, and the more the patient strains the tighter it becomes. (3) It alters the direction of the urethral tube, forming a little recess, and tbis must be kept in mind in passing a catheter, and special care taken to pass none but perfectly purified instruments; otherwise this well of " residual urine" is inoculated Avith septic matters, the probable result being the rapid onset of septicaemia. The patient consults a medical man, not for retention, but for what he calls too frequent making of water, especially at night; this is really "dribbling," or overflow from an already over-fullApplied Anntomy. 446 bladder. When a catheter is passed after the patient has just made water, very likely twelve or fourteen ounces, or more, Avill be drawn off. In passing the catheter, it will be obstructed at a point more than six inches from the meatus, which wiU probably be overcome by depressing the shaft of the catheter. In stricture the usual seat of obstruction is about six inches from the meatus, or in the bulbous portion. When the lateral lobes of the prostate are enlarged, the pro- static urethra becomes dilated and elongated, and its axis altered to one or other side, according to the lobe specially affected; the bladder is also raised out of the pelvis, to a certain extent, into the abdomen. In Structure, the gland consists of glandular, fibrous, and muscular elements, in variable proportion; the "hypertrophy" is probably in many cases due to an increase in the muscular tissue (non-striped)—hence, perhaps, the value of ergot in this condition. Near the opening of the bladder there is a dense fibro-elastic ring, about three lines in breadth, which it is impossible to dilate beyond a certain limited extent. When this ring is cut, as in the operation of lateral lithotomy, however, the gland texture splits up easily in the direction of the cut. It is enclosed in a dense fibrous cai^svle, derived from the pelvic fascia—from the vesical, recto-vesical parts, and from the parietal layer as well. Beneath the capsule, chiefly on the lateral aspects, lies a dense network of veins—the prostatic plexus—into which the dorsal vein of the penis empties itself It is important to note that septic thrombosis sometimes follows operations in this region. The Lymphatics of the Prostate pass to the internal iliac group of pelvic glands, and thence to the lumbar group. These glands therefore enlarge in cancerous affections of this structure. The Nerves of the Prostate are derived from the prostatic plexus of the sympathetic, and this in turn is derived from the hypogastric plexus, which has communications with the epigastric or solar plexus, through the aortic plexus. The prostatic plexus also supplies the erectile tissue of the penis, and ends about the corona glandis; it also supplies the vesiculte seminales and neck of the bladder, and in this region communicates with the fourth sacral—which, it will be remembered, supplies the levator and447 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. sphincter ani and skin between the aims and coccyx (see vol. ii., page 403). It will be easily understood, therefore, how anal and prostatic or bladder affections act and react on each other: as bladder and prostatic affections, causing tenderness and pain in the rectum and about the anus; and anal troubles, causing frequency of micturition, pain at the point of the penis, or even retention, as seen sometimes after operations for fissure and piles. Inflammatory affections of the prostate, simple and tubercular, give rise to symptoms like those of stone in the bladder, as the neck of that viscus is affected in these conditions. The abscess very frequently opens into the urethra, and the pus may pass back into the bladder, and set up cystitis; next in frequency, it opens into the rectum, and lastly, it may make its way towards the perineum. Tubercular abscesses of this gland are verj'' troublesome, and the tension caused by the dense capsule may cause absorption and generalisation of the tubercular material, and carry olf the patient by tubercular meningitis; the best treatment is to open into the gland by a free median perineal incision, and scrape away the diseased matter. Prostatic affections are very apt to cause orchitis, or first rather, epididymitis; the inflammation spreads into the ejaculatory ducts, then along the vas to the epididymis and testicle. This is seen in acute gonorrhoea or gleet, in prostatic calculus, prostatic abscess, irritation from the frequent passage of catheters during " catheter life," and sometimes after lateral lithotomy; it also explains, probably, why tubercular disease of the prostate and epididymis are so frequently found together. The curious thing is, why one testicle only should be affected, e.g., in gonorrhoea, since the two ejaculatory ducts are so close together. Management of Prostatic Cases.—(1) By care as to diet and clothing, keeping the bowels and other functions regular, emptying the bladder at once when nature calls, the patient may get along pretty comfortably. (2) Should these means fail, then the patient must begin his " catheter life." He must be provided with a suitable instrument, and be taught liow to draw off his water. In retention due to enlarged prostate, the bladder does not hold so much as appearances at first sight would indicate, as the enlarged prostate fills up the pelvis, encroaches u])on the bladder.Applied Anatomy: 448 aad puslies it up into the abdomen. To relieve the retention try the following instruments, in order:—(1) A soft red rubber catheter, which is not grasped by the meatus, and twirl it in; (2) an a coudee or bi-coudee catheter. From the presence of the elbow, or elbows, on this catheter, its nose is kept against the upper wall of the urethra, and consequently passes along that tube much more easily. (3) The silver catheter, ordinary or " prostatic," with the long curve; and (4) the gum-elastic, with stylet: pass this up to the obstruction, then withdraw it a little, pull out the stylet for a short distance, holding the catheter steady — tlie withdraAving of the stylet makes the end of the catheter curl up, and moimt through the curved urethra. (5) If it is impossible to introduce an instrument, then aspirate above the pubes. Means adopted to Diminish the Size of an Enlarged Prostate. —(1) The administration of ergot; (2) the occasional passage of very large bougies; (3) the continuous electric current, on account of the power it has of affecting nutrition—-trophic effect—the so- called "electrolysis;" and (4) Prostatectomy — open into the bladder, as in the operation of supra-pubic lithotomj^, and excise the enlarged and projecting " third lobe." The mucous membrane is incised, and the growth enucleated in one or several portions. There is often free hajmorrhage in this operation. Perineal Cystotomy.—In certain cases Professor Annandale performs a median perineal cystotomy. It is done in cases of enlarged prostate with persistent and aggravated irritability of the bladder, where there is a constant desire to pass water, with cystitis. He prefers the perineal route, because (1) the bladder drains better, and (2) the incision through the prostate seems to have a good effect on the enlarged organ. A staff is passed into the bladder with a median groove, and the patient is tied up, or held, in the usual lithotomy position. The left index finger is then passed into the rectum and jjlaced upon the apex of the prostate. The knife is entered about three-quarters of an inch in front of the rectum, with its edge directed upwards, and the staff struck. The knife is then turned, and the wound enlarged a little downwards. A beaked director is then passed along the groove of the staff into the bladder—as it is impossible to reach the bladder with the finger, on account of the enlarged prostate—and the staffSurgical, Medical, a/id Operative. 449 withdrawn. The kiiifo is then jiassed along this director, and the prostatic urethra nicked. A large-sized tube is next passed along the director into the bladder. The tube may either be an ordinary lithotomy tube, or Watson's (Boston) tube may be used. This tube is specially long and curved, so as to suit itself to the curve of the prostate. The tube is fastened into the bladder in the usual manner, and must be kept in for two or three weeks. At the end of this time Professor Annandale introduces a soft red rubber catheter, of full size, with velvet eye, cut short, so that its rounded end will just lie in the bladder, and its cut extremity project from the perineal wound. This end is fitted Avith a vul- canite tube of half-an-inch long, with bulbous ends; this allows of the soft tube being tied in by two loops, without interfering with the canal of the catheter. To the other end of this vulcanite tube a convenient length of india-rubber tubing is fixed, with a taj) at the distal end. By this means the bladder may be emptied at any time by turning on the tap. The red rubber catheter is used, because it is soft and pliable, and the patient can Avalk about Avith it. The only objection is that, being a foreign body, it may cause cystitis. Perhaps a better plan would be to make a permanent perineal fistula, and not Avear a tube at all. The operation, as performed by Professor Annandale, is not folloAved by permanent incontinence, the patient still having control over the sphincter. The only difference is that his mode of urinating approximates the female type. Supra-Pubic Cystotomy.—The above operation may also be performed above the pubes, although, for reasons already stated, the perineal route is probably the best. It is, hoAvever, impossible to say Avith certainty Avhich is the better, as neither operation has as yet been performed a sufficient number of times to enable one to judge. In fat patients, or where more room is needed, it has been advised to use a transverse incision, instead of the usual vertical one.450 Applied Anatomy: CHAPTER XLIIL THE PELVIS — f Gontinued). THE TESTICLE. The Testicle: its Coverings.—The testicle lies obliquely in the scrotum, suspended by the spermatic cord and its coverings. It is oval in shape, and its front, sides, upper and lower ends, are smooth; but the posterior part, where the spermatic cord is attached, and where the vessels enter and leave, is not smooth, and it is not covered by the serous membrane (visceral layer of the Fig. 221. Section of Testicle. Mediastinum Testis -- Cavity of Tunica Vaginalis Trabeculie from Mediastinum— tunica vaginalis). The gland itself is enclosed in a strong capsule —the tunica alhuginea—vilaich. is a dense, fibrous membrane. At the posterior part this membrane is reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum, called the mediastinum testis, or corpus Higlmuriamim. From the front and sides of this septum, trabeculte are given ofl", which pass to be attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. In the4.51 Surgical-, Medico/, and Operative, spaces thus formed the seniiual ducts begin (Fig. 221). Covering the inner surface of tlie tunica albuginea is the tunica vasculom, or the j>/a mater of the testicle. It consists chiefly of a delicate plexus of blood-vessels. Towards the posterior part we find the epididymis. This is an elongated crescent-shaped mass adapted to the upper end and tlie outer side of the posterior border ol the testicle; its upper end is larger than the rest and is called the (jlohus nuy'df, its lower end the cjlohus minor, and the part between the boitij of the epididymis. Seminal Tubules.—-The tubules begin in the lobules of the gland.; the lobides lie in the spaces formed by the septa from the mediastinum testis. Passing from the lobules we have—(1) The rasa recta: these enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and form a network called (2) the rete testis ; (■'>) from this sj^ring a number of ducts, called the vasa eferentia; (4) these in turn form the coni va^culosi, which, together, form the (.5) globus major of the epididymis. Next comes (6) the body of the epididymis, and then (7) the globus minor, or tail; from wluch (8) the vas deferens springs. About the junction of the globus minor and vas deferens, tlie vas aherrans of Haller is occasionally found. The Development of the Testicle.—The testicles arise in the abdominal region, in close relation to the AVolflian body, and from the same cell mass. The Wolffian bodies are often called the primonlial kiiJneys. The permanent kidneys arise in relation to the dorsal aspect of the "Wolffian duct. This duct is converted into the body and globus minor of the epididymis, the vas deferens, and the common ejaculatory duct. The vas aberrans is probably a persistent portion of the original tubules of tlie Wolffian body. The vasa eflferentia, coni vasculosi, and the globus major of the epididymis are produced from a special cell mass, distinct from, though close to, the Wolffian body. Its tubules then become continuous, on the one hand Avith the rete testis, and on the other with the body of the epididymis. In the female this mass of cells become converted into the par-ovarium of JCouelt (= the organ of EosENMULLER, or the epoljphoron of Waldeyer). The vasa elferontia of the male would in this way correspond to the par-"*^ ovarian tubules, Kobelt'« tubes, and also CIaertner's duct of the female. Kobelt's tubes are attached, by one end only—toApplied Anatomy: 452 Gaertxeu's duct—the other end being free and closed. Gaeutnek's duct is the remains, in the female, of the duct of the AVolffian body, the middle part only of this duct being persistent in that sex. The tubes of the par-ovarium and Kobelt's tubes open into it. It lies at first in the broad ligament of the uterus, and then becomes in- corporated with the wall of the uterus and vagma, upon which last it is lost. It is important to keep these points in mind as they explain the origin of cysts of the epididymis. The scattered remains of the Wolffian body constitutes the organ of Giraldes or the paradidymis of Waldeyer, and forms jjerhaps the commonest source of tumours and cysts of the epi- didymis and testicle. The same also is true of the kidney; for it is easy to see how parts of the Wolhian body might become ncorporated with the permanent kidney, or Avith the testicle, since both are developed close to the original Wolffian body. In connection with this, compare, and observe, the similarity in appearance between " cystic degeneration " of the kidney and the same condition of the testicle, probably in both cases due to the incorporated remains of the Wolffian body. Coverings of the Testicle as it lies in the Scrotum.—(1) The skin, which is thin and dark-coloured, and usually in rugiij; (2) the superficial fascia, which in this region is peculiar in tlie fact that it contains no fat, but has a layer of non-striped muscular fibres—the dartos inusc/e; (3) the inter-columnar or external spermatic fascia; (4) the cremasteric muscle or fascia; (5) the infundibuliform fascia; and (6) the tunica vaginalis, the special serous membrane of the testicle, which under normal conditions is entirely cut oft' from the peritoneal cavity. It consists of a visceral and a parietal layer; the visceral layer covers the front, sides, upper and lower ends of the testicle; but towards the posterior part it is reflected from the testicle, and becomes continuous with the parietal layer. The parietal layer is attached to the infundibuliform fascia by loose areolar tissue, and is more extensive than the visceral part, extend- ing higher up and lower down than the testicle. The tunica vaginalis, like other serous membranes, is a closed cavity, and it 'Hs of importance to remember that it is towards the front and sides of the testicle, so that the testicle seems suspended at the back of this serous sac; in the normal condition, however, its two layersSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 453 are in contact. In the condition of inversion, the testicle occupies the front of the scrotum, the whole organ being turned round, so that the vas, instead of being beliind the cord, is in front of it. The testicle is sometimes found in the perineum attached to the tuber ischii. The lu-ocessus vaginalis usually accompanies it. AMien this is the case, it communicates with the peritoneal cavity; and it is important to remember this in excision of the gland, lest fatal peritonitis bo sot uji. Lymphatics of the Testicle.—The lymphatics from the testicle proper pass to the lumbar glands, those from the integuments of the scrotum pass to the horizontal set of the superficial glands in the groin. In encephaloid cancer, therefore, the lumbar glands will be first enlarged; but when the integuments beconxe involved the glands in the groin will also enlarge. In chondro-sarcoma the secondary growths will be found in the internal organs—as the lungs and liver; but it should be noted that this form of sarcoma of the testicle is also very usually readily difiiised by the lyra- phatics. In superficial aftections, therefore, of the scrotum, as eczema, syphilitic skin affections, soot wart (" chimney - sweep's cancer"), parafihi wart, etc., the glands in the groin will be affected; but in affections of the testicle, the lumhar (/lands enlarge. Nerves of the Testicle.^—The testicle is supplied by the i^pemiatic jilexus of the sympathetic; this is derived from the renal plexus, which is in turn immediately derived from the solar plexus. This brings the testicle into a very close relationship with the kidney and solar plexus, and hence probably the pain in the testicle so frecpiently found in kidney affections, and j)ain in the kidney in some aflFections of the testicle. The reason why tlie testicle is thus supplied is because it is develoijed in the abdomen, just under the kidney, but afterwards descends to the scrotum (see vol. ii., page 342). VARIETIES OF HYDROCELE, 1. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis consists of a collection of serous (luid wifhin the (xwity of tliis sac; as the fluid accumu- lates it forms a swelling at the front and sides of the testicle, and also passes up in front of the spennatic cord towards the external454 Applied Anatomy: abdomiual ring; it also passes do^Yn below the testicle, so that if well marked, the testicle cannot be felt at the bottom of the scrotum. The fluid is pale yellow or amber coloured, sometimes a little greenish, and without smell. It is neutral in reaction, and the specific gravity is about 1024, and it contains about G per cent, of albumen, as shown by heat and nitric acid, and farther con- tains fibrinogen. This fluid contains more albumen and fil^rinogen than the fluid of ordinary dropsy. In old chronic cases, it may have a glistening or sparkling appearance, from the presence of cholesterine crystals, the result of fatty changes. There is an acute form of hydrocele which is associated with acute epididy- mitis ; it is painful and tender, and the skin over it is red. The fluid in this case may coagulate spontaneously. Acute hydrocele is not so common with acute orcMHs, as the strong tunica albuginea lies between the inflamed structure and the serous covering; but in epididymitis the inflamed tubules are just outside the tunica vaginalis. It is very probable that the usual chronic hydrocele is associated with some inflammation of the testicle proper, evident or obscure. In hydrocele the fluctuation is free and uniform all over and in all directions, and this distinguishes it from cystic tumours of the testicle. In tapping this distended sac, grasp the tumour with the left hand, so that the testicle lies in the centre of the palm, and hold the trocar in the right hand, with the index finger about three-quarters of an inch from its tip, to prevent it going too far, and with the thumb on the flange to press the cannula home, and then plunge it with a sudden thrust into the most prominent part of the front of the scrotum, so as to avoid injury to the testicle, which is usually at the posterior part; it is first plunged in perpendicularly, and then made to pass obliquely upwards (Fig. 222). In tapping for vaginal hydrocele, carefuUy avoid large veins, and make sure that the case is not one of inversion of the Testicle —i.e., the testicle lying in front, instead of at the back, of the scrotum, or that it is not fixed there by previous inflammatory adhesions; further, make sure that the condition is chronic. The position of the testicle may be made out by the aid of a caudle and stethescope, as well as by the " testicular sensation" produced when the place where the testicle is situated is squeezed. WhenSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 455 the sac is emptied, a solution of iodine is injected, to set up inflammatory action, to coat the serous surfaces with a layer of non-secreting lymph, and prevent the re-accumulation of the fluid. It may also cause adhesion of the serous surfaces, but this is not an essential part of the cure, which is the destruction of the serous surfaces and deposition of non-secreting lymph. The most convenient preparation of iodine to use is Tindura lodini of the Fig. 222. Tapping Vaginal Hydrocele. i Trocar to pass in at Right Cannula to bo passed up obliquely. Angles. The Surgeon's thumb ought to have been placed on the flange of the Cannula. old Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia j of this solution inject about two drachms, taking care that it all gets in, and taking care also to keep it all in—e.r/., if the piston of the syringe fits badly, it might pass behind it; and further, unless the cannula is in the cavity of tlie tunica, it may be injected into the cellular tissue of the scrotum. This tincture is stronger than the Tindura lodi of the British Pharmacopoeia, but not so strong as the liniment. By firmly sriucezing the cord, the sudden intense pain may be lessenedApplied Anatomy: 456 somewhat, or a solution of cocaine may be first injected; some use carbolic, as it is less painful—a drachm, liquified in glycerine. After the solution is injected, the scrotum must be well shaken, so as to bring it in contact with every part of the secreting surface. If, however, a communication exists between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and the general peritoneal cavity, irritating fluids, lilve tincture of iodine should not be injected lest they set up fatal peritonitis. In the passage of the trocar, the following are the Structures pierced—(1) The skin, (2) the superficial fascia and dartos, (3) the inter-columnar fascia, (4) cremasteric fascia, (5) tlie infundibuliform fascia, and (6) the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis. The method of injection must not be used in children nor in feeble old men. In the child, hydrocele is often congenital, wlien the iodine would pass into the abdomen and set up peritonitis; in these cases, treat by discutient lotions (such as hydrochlorate of ammonia), acupuncture or simple withdrawal of the fluid, or lastly, incision and drainage. A somewhat similar method may be used in the old and debilitated—simple withdrawal or acupuncture may cure the condition, especially in cases where the patient has previouslj'^ lived in a warm climate, as the West Indies. Differential Diagnosis between Vagin Scrotal Hernia. 1. Tumour oblique iu shape and direction. 2. Tlie protrusion lies in front of and covers the spermatic cord, and testicle can be felt at the bottom of the scrotum. Scrotum can- not be folded u]) on the abdomen as in hydrocele (Chieke). 3. An impulse is imparted to the tumour if the patient coughs: gurgling sound at attempts at reduction : percussion note clear (if intestine), but dull if omentuni. 4. No transparency on examination by the transmitted light of a candle. Hernia and Hydrocele of Tunica alis:— Hydrocele. 1. Tumour, oval or pyriform and began at bottom of scrotum. 2. The constituents of the cord can be felt free in the inguinal canal at the external ring, but the testicle cannot be felt easily at the bottom of the scrotum, hut is situated behind, and in large collections at the upper part. 3. No impulse on coughing : no gurgling at attempts at reduc- tion: percussion note dull. It is possible to feel the rounded vjtpcr end of the tumour. i. Is usually transparent when t))us examined.457 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The " trauslucont" appearance can be very Avell imitated, by holding up one's thumb in front of a candle flame and looking through it. Double Hydro-Sarcocele, in a young man, is most probably due to secondary syphilis, but it might be tubercular; the history, personal and family, together with the appearance of the patient, Avill help one to decide. An ordinary vaginal hydrocele and an encysted hydrocele may be found on the same side of the scrotum. (Occasionally a fatty tumour is found in the scrotum, developed from the extra-peritoneal fat. The mass of fat travels down under the spermatic coverings, and may completely envelop the testicle, simulating an ordinary vaginal hydrocele. Another curious fact is that it may become detached from the extra-peritoneal fat, and be grafted on to the tissues of the scrotum, and continue to grow there, although entirely cut ofl' from its original source of blood supply. 2. Congenital Hydrocele.—In this case, t\i(Hjrocessi(s vaginalis lias remained open, so that a communication exists between the tunica vaginaUs and the peritoneal cavity (see Fig. 201). It is dull on percussion, never tense, disappears on even, steady pressure, gradually and without slip or gurgle; it descends slowly, even though the finger be kept' on the external abdominal ring. It feels soft and even, and no irregularity or gurgling when liandled. To treat—(1) Discutient lotions; (2) withdrawal of the fluid; or (3) a truss to close up the apertiu'e. 3. Infantile Hydrocele.—In this form the proce.'tsus has only closed at the internal abdominal ring (see Fig. 202). It does not disappear on pressure, or when the patient lies on his back, and there is no gurgling on handling. It is probably due to inclusion of the fluid, when the obliteration occurred, at the internal ring. Xote that, in infants, a hernia may be translucent as well as a hydrocele, but will be tympanitic on percussion. Treat as last- one may also inject iodine, if sure tliat the cummunication 'with tlte ahdomen in closed tip. 4. Encysted Hydrocele of the Cord. —A dropsy of small unobliterated portions of iho. prorcsstis; it is obliterated at different parts of its course, leaving one or more closed sacs, which become ilistended Avith serum (Fig, 223). Or the processus may be closed458 Applied A iiatoiny: at tlie upper and lower parts only, leaving the central part un- obliterated; this condition is simply an arrest of a natural process. Normally, the processus first closes at its upper part, and next at its lower part, and finally in the intervening portion. Encysted hydrocele of the cord may also be a dilated portion of the tube of the " organ of Giraldes," or sometimes a cyst formed by effusion into the cellular tissue. The proper form is usually found in the child and on the r'njlit side, as this side is the last to close, and hence all congenital defects of this nature are more common on this side. The fluid often contains spermatozoa; the swelling is cylindrical, its upper end being as large as the lower, and the testicle is readily felt below, and is quite distinct from the swelling. Fig. 223. Encysted Hydrocele of Cord. —-^^^ar^.-Abdoiiiinal Cavity. ..Unobliterated part of the Vaginal Process, which becomes distended with Fluid. -Cavity of Tunica Vaginalis. .Testicle. To show the condition of the Processus Vaginalis in Encysted Hydrocele of the Cord. 5. Encysted Hydrocele of the Epididymis.—It may contain pure serum, but is more usually serum with a mixture of seminal fluid. The cyst is usually attached to the head of the epididymis; it may be pedunculated and form a "loose body" in the tunica vaginalis. This form does not surround the testicle, nor has it the shape of the tunica vaginalis; it is tense and globular, and the testicle is in front, or to one or other side, or below. Its origin is doubtful: it may be (1) from the vasa efferentia; (2) an enlarge- ment of the "Hydatid of Morgagni," which is the remains, in the male, of the duct of Muixbb ; (3) the organ of Giraldes— the remains of the 'VVolfrian body, or its duct, the vas aberrans; and (4) from Kobelt's tubes. This condition corresponds to the j)arovarian cysts in the female. At first the fluid may not containSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 459 spermatozoa; but later, when a communication is formed between the cyst and the vasa efferentia, spermatozoa arc found. Of course, if the cyst arise primarily in one of the tubules of the vasa efferentia, spermatozoa will be found from the very first. The fluid contains only a trace of albumen, and effervesces on adding an acid, from the presence of alkaline carbonates. In some cases it is opalescent, the opalescence being due to the presence of seminal fluid, and the spermatozoa may be recognised under the microscope. "When this is the case, it is called a spermatocele. In diagnosing Scrotal Tumours the first thing is to ask one's self two questions—(1) Does it belong to the scrotum 1 or (2) Does it come from the abdomen? In pure Scrotal Tumours the swelling has no nerlc, as shown by grasping the tissues near the external abdominal ring between the finger and thumb, on both sides of the body, for the sake of comparison; by doing so we get above the upper end of the tumour, and feel the constituents of the cord healthy and free, e.g., in hydrocele, hsematocele, and simple forms of sarcocele; but in malignant tumours of the testicle and tuber- cular testicle, the vas deferens is often tliickened to the size of a goose quill, instead of being the usual size and feel of whip cord. Tumours of the Testicle itself, with the exception of cystic sar- coma, are solid; swellings of the Tunica Vaginalis, are practically always fluid. Tumours that come from the Abdomen have a neck, which can easily be felt when the tissues near the external ring are grasped between the finger and thumb. Hydrocele of the Cord is cylindrical and sausage-shaped, the testicle is quite free below, and the upper end can usually be felt in the abdomen at the internal ring, and there is no gurgle on manipulation, as in a reducible hernia. I shall now give a short RESUME of the chief ways of treating Hydrocele:— I. In the Child.—(a) In the Congenital form a truss i^i the proper treatment, after returning the fluid, so as to obliterate the communication into the abdomen. Should anything further be required, use cold evaporating lotions or simple tapping with a fine trocar, but never inject iodine, as it would pass up into the abdomen and probably cause peritonitis. When once it becomesApplied A nntODiy: 4G0 " infantile " treat as below, (i) In tlie Infantile variety, which is probably due to inclusion of fluid, use cold, evaporating, discutient lotions, as— Aininonii'c Chloricli gr. xxx. Aceti Destillati, ..... Sj- Spiritiis Rectificati, .... 5j- Aquam ad, ..... gj. Misce. Acupuncture may be employed, using a needle to puncture the sac of the tunica vaginalis; or simple tapping and support afterwards. In A'^ery obstinate cases you may inject iodine, if you are quite sure that the opening into the abdomen is completely shut olf. II. In the Young and in Middle-Aged Adults.—The cause may have to be treated—usually some chronic inflammation of the testicle. After the condition has become chronic, then use palli- ative measures at first, i.e., simple tapping, and the wearing of a suspensory bandage afterwards. If this does not cure, then resort to the radical cure—tapping, followed by the injection of iodine; where this fails, from the great thickness and non-collapsable nature of the wall of the sac, then use simple antiseptic incision and drainage, carefully stitching the tunica vaginalis to the skin, in order that the sac may granulate from the bottom. III. In the Old and Debilitated.—Do not interfere, unless it is causing troul^le and increasing. If interference is necessary, then adopt palliative measures, as repeated simple tapping, and the wearing of a suspensory bandage between times; where it is small, one may use acupuncture. In the form of hydi'ocele, so frequent in warm countries, simple tapping feeems to cure. It is only in exceptional cases that tlie radical cure by free incision and drainage, or the injection of iodine, should be attempted in old men (Bryant). In Haematocele (that is, a collection of blood in the tunica vaginalis), the shape is usually globular; it is heavier than hydro- cele, and hard or doughy to the touch, with obscure fluctuation, as the wall is very thick and rigid, opaque to transmitted light, and dull on percussion. If tapped, a coffee-coloured fluid is di-awn oft', consisting of altered blood. It may arise from a traumatism, when there will be marks of bruising in the tissues of the scrotum ; or itSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 461 lUiiy arise from a puncture of a vein duriug tapping for hydrocele, or from the bursting of a varicose vein. Treatment.—(1) Rest, general and local, with elevation of the scrotum, and gentle elastic pressure to stop the bleeding point; the application of cold may also be tried, if necessary, but elastic pressure is the chief point. (2) Later, it may be tapped, and the serum and broken-down clot drawn off. (3) In obstinate cases, it may be necessary to lay open the tunica vaginalis, under very rigid antiseptic precautions, turn out the blood clots, secure any bleeding points, stuff the wound, and make it heal from the bottom by granulation. (4) In vev]i bad, old-standing cases, excision of the testicle has been practised. Cirsocele or Varicocele is a varicose enlargement of the sper- matic veins (the plexus pampiniformis). The pampiniform plexus is formed by the remains of the veins of the "Wolffian body, and passes out at the hilus or posterior border of the testicle. This Avould correspond to the hilus of the ovary, or, as it is called, the paroophoron, which represents the remains of the Wolffian body. In women who have born children, this plexus often reaches an immense size. The left side is most frequently affected—(1) Because the vein of that side is longer, (2) it is apt to be pressed upon by fajculent accumulations in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and (3) it enters the left renal vein at right angles. Mr Howse believes that in cases of varicocele there is an actual development of new veins, and that this probably accounts for the condition in many cases; in fact, that it is not a mere dilatation of pre-existing veins. It is usually found in young adults up to twenty-five years of age. The mass is pyramidal in shape, with the base below; it feels like a " bag of worms," and it may be possible sometimes to see the dilated and tortuous veiirs. Occasionally the veins rupture and may cause death from great extravasation. When the patient lies on his back, and the scrotum is elevated, the swelling disappears; if then the finger be pressed on the external ring, and the patient made to stand up, it will return in spite of the pressure, without the sensation of anything slipping past the finger. Tliis distinguishes it from hernia. The affected testicle is often a little smaller than the other, but it will not cause impotence, as long as the other testicle is sound. Professor Chienh classifies varicoceles cUnicalhjApplied Anntoiiiy: 462 into—(1) Those that give rise to mental trouble, and (2) those tliat do not: in the former only, under ordinary circumstances, should any operation be performed. The degree of mental trouble produced has no relation to the size of the varicocele. Treatment.—1. Palliative.—A weU-fitting suspensory bandage, with the removal, if possible, of the conditions that tend to keeji up undue pressure in the veins—e.^/., constipation. Cold bathing of the genitals morning and evening is also valuable. In some special cases, where the cause was chiefly obstruction to the venous circula- tion in the abdomen, Mr Spencb recommended a light truss—the truss was not to interrupt the circulation, but to act lilce a valve and support the column of blood above: in ordinary cases a truss would be hurtful. 2. Radical.—In cases (1) where there is much mental trouble on account of the varicocele, (2) for admission to public services, and (3) where there is great pain, frequent seminal emissions, and atrophy of the testicle. Operations. — Open Methods. — AVith strict antiseptic precau- tions, make a short incision over the cord, towards the outer aspect, or behind. When the veins arc exposed, scj^arate them carefully from the other constituents of the cord, especially the vas deferens and the spermatic artery, free them for some distance, puU them out at the wound, and tie them above and below in one or more buniUes with strong catgut, and cut off the part between the ligatures. At the same time, do not be afraid to cut off a good large piece of the loose and pendulous scrotum; this will brace it up afterwards, and act as a suspensory bandage. Insert a small drainage tube, stitch the skin, and dress. Professor Annandale was the first to advise and perform the operation of excision of the veins, combined with removal of a portion of the skin of the scrotum. • Bennett's Operation.—W. II. Bennett believes that to cure varicocele it is necessary to shorten the cord. An incision is made exposing the thin fascia surrounding the varicocele, which fascia must not be divided. The veins are tlien tied en masse at the lower part, the ends of the ligature being left long. A second ligature is next passed round the veins at the upper part and tied with a slmjle knot, which is kept tight by an assistant. The portion of the veins between the ligatures is then excised, and the upper ligature tightened, the ends being left long. After theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 463 bleeding has ceased the ligatured stumps of the varicocele are brought together, and retained thus, by knotting the ends of the upper ligature to those of the lower. The ligatures are now cut short and the operation completed. Subcutaneous Method.—Another plan is by multiple sub- cutaneous Catgut Ligatures, with or without division between the ligatures. Velpeau's method of obliteration, by means of a hare-lip pins and twisted suture, cannot be recommended; and the same remark ajjplies to Vidal's method of twisting by means of specially-constructed needles and silver wire. Structures divided in the ojjen method are—Skin and dartos, inter-columnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, and infundibuliform fascia. Vessels and Nerves.—Twigs of the ilio-inguinal and genito-crural nerves; branches of superficial external pudic and cremasteric arteries. Sarcoceie.—-ISy this is meant merely a solid enlargement of the testicle. This may be—{a) Simple, usually a form of chronic inflammation following acute orchitis, and affecting all parts of the testicle equally; it is smooth and uniform, and may be painful and tender, {h) Tubercular, affecting the epididymis and the vas deferens in the fii'st instance, which become craggy and nodular, with perhaps soft spots here and there. {<■) Syphilitic, a tertiary l^henomenon appearing two or three years, or longer, after infection; the cord is healthy, the body of the testicle alone being affected, and is very often accompanied by hydrocele (hydro-sarcocele). There are two forms—(1) It may be a diffuse orchitis, or (2) it may be in tlie form of a localised gummatous tumour, {d) Tumours of the Testicle, simple or malignant—as encephaloid cancer, cystic sarcoma, and chondro-sarcoma. Cancerous tumours are usually of a soft and rapidly-growing form, and begin in the body of one testicle, from proliferation of the epithelium of the seminiferous tubules, and very rapidly infect the lumbar glands. Sarcomata begin in the connective tissue of the gland or the tunica albuginea; it is most common in children under ten years. Tlic so-called enchondronia of the testicle is a sarcoma which develops cartilage (chondrifi/in'j sarcoma), and the secondary growths in the internal organs retain the characters of the primary. In adults the sarcoma is often cystic. Cartilaginous tumours of the testicle spread by means of the lympliatics, as well as by the veins. The rapidApplied Anatomy: 464 growth, the great size often, the lobulation, the presence of cysts, and unequal consistence of the tumour, as well as the absence of all inflammatory symptoms are suspicious. Double primary malig- nant disease of the testicle is always lymplw-sarcoma. When there is marked lumbar pain, it probably indicates infection of the lymphatic glands in that region. Simple forms of sarcocele are rarely larger than a goose's egg. Gout and malaria may also cause enlargement of the testicle. The following Table (after Erichsen) may assist the memory:— Simple Sarcocele, 1. In the acute stage tlie cord is thick and tender ; in chronic, may he enlargedfrom dilated vessels. It is a chronic inflanima- tiou following acnte orchitis, and all parts are affected. 2. Epididymis may be swollen, hut body chiefly affected; it is hard, smooth, and uniform, and rarely fluctuates. 3. Painful and tender. 4. History of injury or Tubercular Sarcocele. gonorrhoea. 5. Hydrocele sometimes. 6. Scrotum healthy, and usually only one tes- ticle affected. 1. Vas deferens afiected and cord thickened. Epididymis chiefly affected: it is craggy and nodular with spots of softening, and may he adher- ent to tissues of the scrotum. Body rarely affected. Sometimes tender, but rarely painful. Tubercle in other parts. , History of struma or phthisis. , Rare. , In early manhood: both often affected: adheres to scrotal tissues and bursts externally. Syphilitic Sarcocele. 1. Cord healthy, vessels dilated. hut 2. Body alone princi- , pally affected in both forms ; hard, ! nodular, and irregu- lar. Softening and abscess rare. 3. No jmin or tender- | ncss: tlie testicular sensation .soon lost. 4. History of syphilis , two or three years before. 5. Common. 6. Scrotum healthy.4G5 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Kote the two forms of syphilitic disease—(1) A diffuse inter- stitial orchitis. In this case the outline is uniform, smooth, and even; both are affected. It is apt to occur in the young and the middle - aged, and soon after the infection. (2) As a localised gummy tumour. In this case the outline is irregular, nodular, or craggy; it occurs later in life, and longer after the infection. THE BLADDER. This is one of the pelvic viscera. When empty it lies entirely within that cavity behind the pubic bones, and is of a triangular form; when moderately distended it is of a rounded form, and when fully distended it is ovoid in shape and rises above the pubes and enters the hypogastric, or even the umbilical, region. Its relations to the prostate and rectum are given elsewhere. The Nerves of the bladder are derived from the vesical and prostatic plexuses sent oflp by the hypogastric plexus, which su^jplies its ujiper part, and the fourth sacral nerve; in this way the neck of the bladder is brought into very close relation with the anus, the importance of which has been already pointed out (see vol. ii., page 4:40). The vesical plexus contains a large proportion of spinal nerve fibres. Puncture of the Bladder.—This operation may be performed either from the rectum or above the pubes; and in doing so, advantage is taken of the anatomical facts that there is no peri- toneum on the base of the bladder (that is, the part towards the rectum) nor on the antero-inferior surface. The part left uncovered varies with the amount of distension of the organ. In tapping above the pubes, the bladder must be distended, so as to raise the reflection of the peritoneum well above the pubes; in tapping from the rectum, it must be done exactly in the middle line, and close to prostate. The part which may be punctured with safety is triangular in shape, each side of the triangle being about an inch-and-a-half in length (the external trigone), and has the following boundaries:—Un either side are the vasa defurentia (a vas on each side), and immediately beyond these, the vesicuhe scminales; the base of the triangle is formed by the line of reHcciion of the peritoneum on to the rectum, ajul is about an *2n46G Applied Anatomy: inch and a quarter from tlie base of the prostate; at the apex of tliis triangle the prostate gland is situated (Fig. 224). If the puncture be not in the middle line, the vasa deferentia or vesicuhe seniinales may be injured; and unless well forwards towards the apex of the triangle, the peritoneum might be punctured. This operation may be rendered necessary for the retention of urine in cases of stricture of the urethra, or in cases of rupture of the same structure Avhere it is impossible to pass a catheter. The objections to puncture per rectum are—(1) That it is inconvenient to keep a tube in the rectum; (2) that it may cause abscess between the bladder and rectiim, and leave a permanent fistula; (3) the vesiculas seminales or peritoneum may be injured, causing peritonitis; and (4) that it may set up pelvic cellulitis. Fig. 224. Base of Bladder showing the Trigone. Point at which to puncture tlie Bladder per Rectum.. Lino of Peritoneal Rutlection ^ '^>.„,..Uretcr. Unless the finger can be passed well beyond the prostate, and feel the fluctuating base of the bladder, do not attempt it. The cannula, too, can only be kept in for a limited period per rectum; and further, it cannot be done at all in cases of enlarged prostate, nor in the Negro races (Bell). It may be done in cases of imper- meable stricture in the young adult, or in complete rupture of the urethra. During an extensive experience of nearly half-a-century, Mr Spbnce only performed the operation twice. In performing this simple operation, pass two fingers into the rectum till the base of the prostate and tlio bladder beyond is distinctly felt; the point of puncture must bo in the middle line, and as near the base of the prostate as possible. Next, take a Vesieula Semiualis. Vas Deferens. Line of Peritoneal Reflection.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 467 curved trocar and canniUa, the jjoint of tlie trocar being drawn well back within the cannula, and press the point of the cannula against the bulging base of the bladder, then make the trocar enter the bladder, and after that push the cannula also into the bladder, withdra'w the trucar and let the urine flow out. The cannula is then tied into the bladder for forty-eight hours, after which a catheter may be passed by the urethra, as the rest lias probably diminished the swelling and inflammation of that canal. A similar instrument may also be used to puncture above the pubes, Fig. 225. Spence's Operation. (After Spbnce.) .Puncture above Pubes. Puncture tliruiigh Rectum. in which case it is better to make a small incision lirst, partly through the abdominal wall, and afterwards insert the trocar tlirough the incision. A much better instrument, however, to use is the pneumatic aspirator. Mr Spence's Method of Puncture from the Perineum.—The part opened is the membranous portion of tlie uretlira, and the guide is the apex of the prostate, felt per rectum. The left index finger is passed into the rectum and made to rest on the apex of tlie prostate, and its pulp against the distended membranousApplied A natomy: 468 urethra; an ordinary straight bistoury is then plunged into the perineum in front of the anus, with its back towards the rectum and the point directed obliquely upwards, as if to cut into the apex of the prostate, wliich guides lo the membranous part of the ru'ethra (Eig..225). AVhen this is opened the urine escapes; the Surgeon may then tie in an ordinary lithotomy tube, or pass a bougie down to the obstruction and divide the stricture on its point. lu this way not only is the retention relieved, but the obstruction is divided at the same time. Mr Cock's operation closely resembles Mr Spence's. Cock's Operation—or opening the urethra behind the stricture, at a point where it is healthy, and in front of the prostate—in the membranous portion, as the stricture is usually in front of this point. The patient is tied up as for lithotomy. The operator then passes his left forefinger into the rectum, and places it upou tlie apex of the prostate, and then passes a broad, sharp-pointed, double-edged knife straight down to the apex, exactly in the middle line of the perineum. The external wound is then enlarged somewhat, the knife withdra^wn, and a probe-pointed director with a handle j^assed into the wound through the urethra, and into the bladder; along this, as a guide, a tube^—Syme's perineal catheter or a female catheter—is passed, fitted with rings, whereby it can be tied into the bladder. The objection to this operation is that it does not presumably cure the stricture. Rupture of the Bladder usually occurs when it is full, and the patient receives some form of injury. It may rupture in two situations—(1) At tlie parts not covered by peritoneum, and (2) at the parts covered by peritoneum. In the first case the urine is ettused into the cellular tissue round the viscus, but o^itside the abdomen ; in the other, the urine passes into the peritoneum. In treating rupture of the bladder, various plans are open to the (Surgeon—(1) Keep the bladder empty by siphonage, and give the patient plenty of opium, in case of peritonitis; (2) a catheter may be passed through the rent of the bladder, and the abdomen washed out with a warm antiseptic; (3) drain the bladder by perineal cystotomy; and (4) abdominal section. In cases of intra-peritoncal rupture, the wound should be stitched with Lejibeet's suture. The sutures must only go through the peritoneal and muscular coats,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 469 and one shonld be inserted just beyond each end of the wound. Try if it is water-tight before closing the abdominal wound. In all abdominal sections the bladder must be first emptied lest it be cut by the Surgeon, as occasionally happens. Clinical Points.—(1) The internal trigone is the most sensitive and the most vascular part of the bladder, and it is always smooth, as there is no submucous coat, the mucous membrane being attached to the muscular coat directly; it is also the lowest part of the bladder, and as the bladder contracts, a calculus, if present, is pressed against this very sensitive part. (2) Bladder afiections react on the rectum, through the pelvic portion of the sympathetic and the fourth sacral nerve. (3) When obstructions exist to the outflow of vxrine, if the obstruction is not too complete and the patient not debilitated, the wall of the bladder hyper- trophies, and the bundles of muscular fibres stand out like the columnaj carnea3 of the heart, forming " fasciculated bladder;" these fasciculi may become coated with phosphates, and lead the Surgeon to think that the bladder contains a stone. (4) But if the obstruction is too complete or the patient debilitated, the wall of the bladder dilates and tbins, and may rujiture. (5) In cases of hypertrophy, the mucous membrane is sometimes forced through between the bundles of muscular fibres, forming sacculi—• "sacculated bladder;" the walls of the sacculi contain no mus- cular fibres. (6) The saccidi lodge residual urine, which is apt to decompose and deposit phosphates; in this way encysted calculi are formed. HiEMATURIA. Blood in the Urine may be derived from the Urethra, Bladder, or Kidney :— 1. From the Urethra.—In this case it may pass independently of urine or micturition; it may pass with the first few drops, with or without the passage first of a long clot, the size and shape of the urethra. It may also pass with the last few drops of urine, when it comes from tlie prostate or neck of bladder; it will be impossible to distinguish profuse prostatic from vesical hemorrhage by mere examination of the urine, as the blood Hows into the bladder from the prostate.470 Applied Anatomy: 2. From the Bladder.—The blood in this case is not diffused through the urine, and often comes almost pure at the end of mictm'ition, or just after the urine; further, it is often accom- panied by flat or irregular shaped clots, and the blood retains more or less its red colour. The reason of this is evidently the higher specific gravity of the blood: average specific gravity of the urine is 1020; of the blood as a whole, 1055; of the red corpuscles alone, 1088—hence, of course, they sink to the bottom of the bladder. 3. From the Kidney. — The blood is intimately mixed or diffused through the urine, producing, when copious, a dark porter-like colour; when scanty, a uniform " smoky" tint; it is often accompanied with long narrow blood clots or " casts" of the ureters. The dark colour of the blood is due to the haemoglobin being changed to methaemoglobin, by the action of the acid in the urine. Tests for Blood.— (1) Perhaps the best and most delicate test is the microscope. (2) Tincture of guaiacum and an ethereal solution of peroxide of hydrogen (= " ozonised ether ") develops a beautiful light blue colour. Note.—Urine containing blood does not always give this reaction; and if iodide of potassium be present, a blue colour will be produced, even though no blood be present. (3) Hasmin crystal test.—Treat the blood with hydrochloric acid, or else use glacial acetic acid and common salt, when rhomboidal, yellowish- red crystals are formed. (4) Heller's test.—Heat the urine, and then add a solution of caustic potash, and heat again; the clot first formed is redissolved, and the solution thus obtained is dirty green by transmitted, but blood-red, by reflected light. Tumours of the Bladder.—^Observe the differences between the hajmaturia caused by sarcoma and that due to cancer. In Sarcoma the ha3morrhage usually 'precedes the other symptoms, such as pain and frequency of micturition. As in Papilloma, at first it occurs in attacks, the urine between times being quite clear; the attacks gradually become more frequent and last longer, until at last tlie urine is never quite free from blood. In Cancer the pain and frequency of micturition usually precede the appearance of blood in the urine. The bleeding from papOloma is more abundant than from stone; there is pain in stone, but very seldom in papilloma. If in doubt about the presence of a tumour, and if no tufts of471 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. paiailloma are found in the urine, then perform perineal cystotomy, and use digital exploration. If the presence of a tumour is certain, then open the bladder supra-pubically and remove it, as the perineal incision is too small, except for a small, single tumour. If the tumour be large, or if they arc multiple, they cannot be removed by the perineal incision. If in doubt between tumours and foreign bodies, use the endoscope; to do this the urine must be clear, and free from pus or blood. PYURIA. Pus in the Urine may also be derived from the Urethra, Bladder, or Kidney:— 1. From the Urethra.—Here it is passed before the urine, or escapes independently of micturition. If it come with a gush, it is probably due to the bursting of a prostatic abscess into the urethra, but the pus in this case may also flow back into the bladder. 2. From the Bladder.—The pus is equally diffused through the urine, which is foul-smelling and alkaline; the alkali present renders the pus " ropy," and holds it in suspension. It is usually mixed Avith mucus, and the pus is always present. 3. From the Kidney.—When first passed it may be diffused through the fluid, but it soon settles down into a layer at the bottom of the glass, which is sharply marked off from the super- natant fluid; the urine is acid, not decomposed, and does not contain mucus. In cases where the cause is calculous pyelitis, the appearance of pus will be intermittent—present at one time but absent the next. Note the differences between blood and pus, from the bladder and kidney respectively. Speaking generally— (1) Blood from the bladder is not diffused through the urine, whereas pus is. (2) Blood from the kidney is diffused through the urine, whereas pus is not. (3) Pus in alkaline urine = bladder. Pus in acid urine = kidney. (4) Pus constantly present - bladder. Pus at times only = kidney.472 Applied Anatomy: Teats for Pus.—(1) Liquor potassas makes it ropy and gelatinous, so that it cannot be poured out drop by drop. (2) The microscope and aoetic acid. The acid clears up the pus cells and shows the tri-partite nucleus. Acetic acid coagulates mucus. Calculi.—The common forms of stone are— 1. Urates, probably Avith some Uric Acid as well—it is flat- tened and ovoid, the colour varies from dark brown to light fawn, the surface is fairly smooth or slightly warty, and it is of medium hardness. Not only is this the most common form of stone, but it also forms the commonest nucleus for other stones, as the oxalic; it usually comes from the kidney. In children the nucleus, or the entire calculus, may consist of urate of ammonium, forming a grey- fawn or pipe-clay coloured stone. 2. Phosphates; white and chalk-like, very soft and brittle, and egg-shaped. It usually consists of phosphate of lime (" stellar 2)1 los- plude ") and triple phosphate (" ainmonio-niagiiesian 2^liOspliate "J, and is knoAvn as the " fusible calculus." Pure triple phosphate is rare except as a coating on instruments tied into the bladder, or on foreign bodies, and round other stones that have been in the bladder long enough to set up cystitis. The phosphatic nucleus is vesical from the first, and the urine is alkaline and stinking; it may be deposited in one of the sacculi of a sacculated bladder, as the urine there tends to decompose. .3. Oxalate of Lime,—This forms a round, densely hard stone, with a vitreous fracture, rough and tuberculated on the surface, and very dark in colour from the hsematin of the blood, as it is apt to cause bleeding. It may come from the kidney in the first instance, or be formed round a uric acid nucleus; like the uric acid, it is found in clear acid urine. It is Imown as the " mulberry calculus." Chemical Characters of Calculi:— 1. Uric Acid— (a) Exposed to the blow-pipe, it groAvs black and slowly burns away, leaving only a slight ash, wliich is alkaline to test paper. (b) Add nitric acicl aod evaporate to dryness, when a redSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 473 residue is left. Cool, and add ammonia, when we get a niagnificeut purple (murexicle test). (c) Dissolve in caustic potasli and heat. No smell of ammonia. 2. Urate of Ammonia— («) Like urates generally, is soluble in hot water, but deposited on cooling. {h) Dissolve in caustic potash and heat. Smell of ammonia. {c) Apply the murexide test to demonstrate the presence of uric acid, or— (cZ) Add hydrochloric acid, and you get a precipitate of uric acid. 3. Phosphate of Lime— [a) Add hydrochloric acid. Dissolves without efferves- cence. To this solution add ammonia, which will produce a white gelatinoiis precipitate. To a part of this— [h) Add a drop of neutral ferric chloride. A yellowish- white precipitate of ferric phosphate is thrown down. To another part— ('■) Add ammonium oxalate. White precipitate of oxalate of lime. 4. Triple Phosphate—Ammonio-magnesian phosphate— (a) Heat in blow-pipe. Chars and gives off a smell of ammonia, and finally fuses. [h) Heat with caustic potash, when ammonia is set free and the magnesia falls as a white flocculent precipitate. (c) Soluble in hydrochloric acid, but is thrown down, when this solution is neutralised with ammonia, as a crystalline precipitate. ;■). The "Fusible Calculus"—mixture of phosphate of lime and " triple phosphate"— («) In the blow-pipe, fuses very easily without being consumed; at the same time ammonia and water are driven off.Applied Anatomy: 474 (h) Dissolve in hydrochloric acid, and add ammonia in slight excess. White precipitate of the mixed phosphates thrown down. 6. Oxalate of Lime— (a) Dissolve in hydrochloric or nitric acid, and add ammonia. White precipitate, insoluble in acetic acid. (Z>) It is insoluble in acetic acid. (c) Ignite a portion. Carbonic oxide is given off, and car- bonate of lime left behind. To this add hydrocliloric acid, which will produce copious effervescence. (d) Dissolve in hydrochloric acid, neutralise with am- monia, and add ammonium oxalate. White pre- cipitate of calcium oxalate. Coccygeal Body.—This is a body about the size of a small pea, in close connection with the terminal twigs of the middle sacral artery. Luschka named it the coccygeal gland; but Aenold has shown that it is not a gland, but that it simj^ly consists of the dilated and tortuous twigs of the middle sacral artery. The muscular coat of the artery is much thickened, and there are also layers of peculiar cells. The body is invested by connective tissue, in which nerve cells are embedded. Branches of the ganglion impar of the sympathetic pass to the coccygeal body. A body of similar structure, called the inter-carotic body, is situated in the angle of the bifurcation of the common carotid artery in the neck. Luschka termed this body the ganglion caroticum. It has been thought that many of the congenital sacro- coccygeal tumours may originate in this body. Tliese tumours are fibro-cystic in nature, and are often attached to the bone or to the pelvic viscera; they have no relation to spina bifida, as they originate between the coccyx, or sacrum, and the rectum, and below the levator ani. On account of their deep connections they are very difficult to remove, and should not be interfered with rashly. They consist of closed round vesicles, simple, branched, or varicose, lined by round or polygonal cells, resting on a base- ment membrane; in the ftetus the cells are columnar and ciliated.475 Surgical, Medical, and Operatixie. The matrix consists of mucli delicate connective tissue, through which many thin-walled, cavernous-like vessels run. Occasionally, the remains of a belated foetus may be found in it. The cysts vary in size from a pea to a chestnut, and contain a glairy trans- parent fluid, like ropy mucus. These tumours are also known as " thyroid - dermoids," or congenital adenomata. They probably arise in connection with the post-anal gut and neurenteric passage (Sutton). It is possible that some of the congenital cysts in the neck may be due to a cystic degeneration of the inter-carotic body; to such LuscHKA gave the name of hygroma colli. Others have supposed that many of the hrancliial cysts develop from this body, while others again believe that the congenital fibro-cystic tumour of the neck may have a similar origin. It is more lilcely, however, that this latter condition may rather result from an intra - uterine transformation of a subcutaneous naavus. This growth must be distinguished from the true hydroreh colli, Avhich is beneath the deep fascia, and often passes from the neck into the thorax or axilla.Applied Anatomy: 47G CHAPTEE XLiy. THE P E L V I ^ — (Gontinued). THE RECTUM. The rectum extends from tlie left sacro-iliac synchondrosis, ob- liquely downwards and to the right, to the middle of the sacrum, and then curves forwards and inwards in front of the sacrum and coccyx. From the tijj of the coccyx it continues its course down- wards and forwards for about an inch and a half to the prostate in the male, and back of the cervix, vagina, and perineal body in the female. Opposite the prostate it makes another turn, passing downwards and slightly backwards to the orifice of the anus; the anus is situated about an inch and a half in front of the tip of the coccyx. It will be observed, therefore, that although it is called the " rectum," it is anything but stravjlit in the human subject, although it is so in the lower animals. It should be further noted that the rectum does not pass downwards and backwards from the tip of the coccyx to the anus, but from the hack of tlie prostate—an inch and a half from the tip of the coccyx.* The rectum is divided into three parts—the first part extends from its commencement to the second or third sacral vertebra; the second part, from the second or third sacral vertebra to tlie tip of the coccyx; the third part, from the tip of the coccyx to the anal orifice—this part being about an inch and a half in length. The length of the entire rectum is about eight inches. * As the anus is ahout an inch and a lialf in front of the tip of the coccyx, it is evident that the usual description is, to say the least, misleading.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 477 Relations.—The first part is surrountlud by i)critoueuni, -whicli. also binds it to the I'ront of the sacrum as far down as the second or third sacral vertebra—this fold being known as the meso-redum; in front of this part is the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum and a part of the bladder in the male, but in the female the pouch of DouGLAa, the uterus, and the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina. The second part is only partially surrounded by the peritoneum, the front and upper part of its sides alone being in relation to it; at its lower part the peritoneum is reflected, in the male, on to the back of the bladder, but in the female on to the posterior wall of the vagina. On the anterior surface of the rectum the peritoneum is about three and a half or four inches from the anus; on the poderior surface it is fully an inch higher ujj. In the male, the base of the bladder (trigone) lies immediately over this part, and between the two are the vesiculaj seminales and the vasa deferentia; but in the female the jjosterior vaginal wall is in relation to it. This part is attached by loose areolar tissue to the front of the sacrum and coccyx, and is also in relation to the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. The third part has no relation to the peritoneum, but is in close relation to the pelvic fascia and the levatores ani muscles, which support this part of the rectum; the rectal layer of the pelvic fascia joins the rectum about four inches from its lower end, and at the same time ensheaths the levatores ani; further, the I'ecto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia (or the recto-vaginal layer m the female), is also in relation to the rectum. The prostate gland in the male is close to the com- mencement of this part, Avhile in the female the perineal body is in relation to its anterior surface throughout its whole extent, because at this point the rectum and the vagina diverge. The anal part of the rectum, or the part in the region of the sphincters, may be said to begin at the back of the prostate and pass downwards and slightly backwards to the external orifice; this part is invested by the internal sphincter, the levatores ani, and the external sphincter. This last part of the rectum is of great Surgical import- ance (see vol. ii., page 482). The Arteries of the Rectum arc Ave in number—(1) The superior htemorrhoidal, the continuation of the inferior mesenteric into the pelvis; it soon divides into two branches, which pass down.Applied Anatomy: 478 one on each side of the rectum. (2) The two middle hiemorrhoidal arteries, from the anterior division of the internal iliac, or from the inferior vesical. (3) The two inferior haemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. At the upper part of the rectum the arterial branches pass transversely round the gut, outside or between the muscular coats, but at the lower part they pierce the muscular coat and pass downwards longitudinally in the sub-mucous cellular tissue. This fact is of importance in Whitehead's operation for piles. At the external orifice both arteries and veins form anastomosing loops. The Veins of the Lower End of the Rectum, in common with those of the prostate, bladder, and uterus, form a dense plexus just under the mucous membrane; this plexus is peculiar, as it forms the connecting link between the systemic and the portal system of veins—part of the blood reaching the inferior vena cava and part the portal vein. It wiU be seen, therefore, that there must be a considerable pressure on the feebly-sujiported htemorrhoidal plexus of veins, as the portal vein and its radicles have no valves ; this fact is looked upon as a predisposing cause of hsemorrhoids, or piles. Lymphatics of the Rectum. — Those from the integument surrounding the orifice of the anus pass to the horizontal set of inguinal glands; this set will, therefore, be enlarged in squamous- celled epithelioma affecting the verge of the anus. The vessels of the gut itself, above this point, pass first to the pelvic glands around the internal iliac artery, and thence to the lumbar glands. The Nerves of the rectum are derived from the hypogastric plexuses of the sympathetic, in common with the other pelvic viscera. Hsemorrhoids.—These consist of a varicose dilatation of the inferior hgemorrhoidal veins, with tlirombosis, and subsequent inflammation. At first it is a mere dilatation, but by-and-by the blood clots, and the connective tissue around hypertrophies. 1. External Piles are a dilatation of the subcutaneous veins around the anal orifice; their walls are thickened, and the connec- tive tissue around is also thickened. There are various subdivisions —((t) The anal tab, a solid, flaccid fold of skin; (i) external piles proper, a soft, blue, compressible swelling, covered by skin—this is a dilated vein; and (c) the same structiu-e inflamed and oedematous.Stirgical, Medical, and Operative. 479 2. Internal Piles.—It should be remembered that piles are purely aual growths, being usually situated just opposite the sphincter. Internal pUes are also dilated veins, but very often arteries and capillaries are developed in them, as a secondary result to fibrous change. They have been divided into two chief groups—(a) The longitudinal ov flesliy pile.-—It is " blind " usually, i.e., non-bleeding, sessile, and of a dusky brown tint, (h) The globular pile.—This very often forms the bleeding pile, because it is much more vascular, and may be blue or red, according to the relative proportion of capillaries and veins, and may be pedun- culated. When ulcerated it forms a deep red sessile projection, like a strawberry, covered with granulation tissue, from which the blood comes. There is no arterial pile proper, though fibrous tissue nodules, with arteries passing into them, are frequently enough developed as a secondary result. The blood is often arterial, as the arteries and capillaries may give way, from the great back pressure. The blood may come from the bursting of a small vein, or from the granulations covering the "granular" or "strawberry pile." Some persons have "fits of the piles;" by this is meant that the piles are inflamed, as from cold and Avet, and protrude through the sphincter. Others, again, tend chiefly to bleed, and thus escape attacks of inflammation. To Treat.—ISTo operation of any kind is to be undertaken for the cure of internal or external piles, when the piles in question are inflamed. Always treat them, in the first instance, as a physician. The patient should keep his bowels comfortably easy, with senna, sulphur, or castor oil, or glycerine enemata. A favourite preparation is a mixture of confection of pepper and liquorice powder. He should also wash the parts with cold water after every motion, and night and morning as well. An ointment, say, of hamamelis, should also be used to smear the parts to prevent irritation, and at the same time to exert an astringent eflect. External Piles are usually simply snipped ofl' with the scissors j if the raw surface is large, a stitch may be introduced. There is no danger of htemorrhage, as the inflammation around has condensed the tissue, and tlie veins are thrombosed and blocked off from the circulation. Internal piles are rarely so occluded,Applied Anatojiiy: 480 aud, therefore, they could not be simply snipped off with safety, as the risk of hi^jmorrhage is great—just as in a burst varicose vein of the log. Internal Piles must always be treated by constitutional manage- ment first. If this fails, then (1) the clamp and cautery may'be used, or (2) they may be crushed, or (3) they may be ligatured— well adapted for cases of solitary prominent piles. (4) The piles, with the mucous membrane from which they spring, may be removed, after the manner introduced by Whitehead. There is less pain after the clamp and cautery than after ligature; there is also less tendency to reflex retention of urine. Further, there is no ■large mass left to slough off. The risks of hgamorrhage, septicsemia, and pya3mia are about equal in both cases. It is said that in ligature, a vein may be punctured, and lead to htemorrhage and septic absorption. In ligaturing, many Surgeons cut through the mucous membrane over the lower half of the pile. In this way the ligature cannot slip, the mass tied is smaller, aud con- sequently the slough separates sooner. The mucous membrane of the upper half of the circumference is not cut, as the arteries enter at that point. The crushing operation is rarely performed. In making the first visit to the patient after the operation, take a catheter with you, and inquire if he has passed water since the oijeratiou. If not, draw it ofl'. Whitehead's Operation.—This method may be used where the piles are very diffuse, ill-defijied, and all round the gut. The patient is an;esthetised and placed in the lithotomy position, and the sphincters are paralysed by stretching; and then, by the use of scissors and forceps, an incision is made through the mucous meiubrane, just within the verge of the anus (Fig. 226), the mem- brane separated all round for a little up, till healthy membrane is reached above the piles, and then this cuff of mucous membrane is split at one side and excised, and the gut above brought down and stitched to the mucous membrane left at the verge of tlie anus (Fig. 227). The gut must not be cut off' transversely all at once, but simply snip by snip, securing the vessels and introduciug the sutures as you proceed. The sutures are of carbolised silk, or of horse-hair; the wound is dressed with iodoform, and a dose of castor oil is given on the morning of the fourth day—probablySurgical, Medical, and Operative. 481 the most disagrceaTjIo part of the oporatiou. The objection to this operatiou is the ahsence of drainage, as the wound is entirely- covered over, and it is a septic region, so that the chances of septiccBuiia are probably greater than in other operations. In case adhesions form later, it is better to pass a bougie a week or so after the operation. Fig. 226. Whitehead's Operation—First Stage. An Ai'tory Jluscular Coat Part of Mucous Coat removed , Mucous Coat. A Vein. Upper Incision. Lower Incision. Fig. 227. Whitehead's Operation—Second Stage. -Muscular Coat. -A Vein. ..Mucous Coat. Sutiires passed ready for tying. Treatment by Injection.—By this method, it is said, the pain and conhnement attendant upon the other methods of treatment are obviated. Various fluids may be used, though carbolic acid is probably the best, the usual strength being 1 in 10, though stronger solutions may be used. For the 1 in 10 solution, take of carbolic acid twelve grains, and glycerine and water of each one dracliin. The patient is made to strain the piles down, and is then placed on a couch in tlie knee-elbow position j after this, by meansApplied Anatomy: 482 of a hypodermic syringe, an injection is slowly made into the centre of each pile, of from two to five minims. After the injections the piles are returned, and must be at once rehirnecl should they come down afterwards. The advantages of this method are said to be that the patient is not laid up, suffers practically no pain, and runs no risk to life from hfemorrhage, tetanus, erysipelas, or pysemia. Region of the Sphincters of the Rectum.*—The External Sphincter is a thin layer of fibres immediately beneath the skin and surrounding the anus. It is elliptical in form, and half-an- inch in breadth on each side, and is attached behind to the coccyx, and in front blends with the other muscles at the central point of the perineum. The Internal Sphincter is a muscular belt surrounding the lower part of the rectum, an inch above the anus; it is half-an-iuch in depth and two lines thick, and is simply a thickened part of the circular muscular fibres of the rectum. About a couple of inches or so above this point there is a circular fold of mucous membrane containing muscular fibres, which is sometimes called the spldnder tertius. The diseased conditions met with in the neighbourhood of the external and internal sphincters and levatores ani, and kept up and aggravated by their action, are numerous and important. Among these we may sjDecially mention—(1) Fistula in ano, which is chiefly prevented from healing by the unrest produced by the sphincters. (2) Anal Ulcer or Fissure—the nearer this condition approaches the sphincters the greater the pain, and the less tendency it shows to heal. (3) Piles, which are jaurely anal growths, being situated in the region of the sphincters. It should be noted that the " region of the sphincters " is not a mere circle, but is a canal of some depth, from half-an-inch to an inch in length. The external sphincter is supplied by the fourth sacral nerve principally. This same nerve, it will be remembered, also supplies the skin between the coccyx and the anus, the levator ani, and the neck of the bladder. The communications explain very clearly tlie effect of anal affections on tlae bladder, e.g., retention of urine after ligature of piles; it also explains the symptoms of This corresjionds to Dr Symington's " Anal Caual."Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 483 Fissure of the Anus. In this condition the anus is very much contracted, from spasm of the sphincter; towards ^posterior part, where the fissure is usually placed and where it gives rise to most trouble, is often seen a single pile, and at the base of this, as a rule, we find the fissure. The fissure runs longitudinally, and very often a little ulcer is found at its upper end; the floor of the fissure is formed by the sphincter, and a twig of the fourth sacral nerve is believed to be exposed and irritated, causing the intense pain. The pain is two-fold—(1) That caused directly by the passage of fajces over the raw surface of the fissure; and (2) the reflex pain lasting some liours^ after defecation, because, as the anus closes, the fissure is squeezed, the nerve irritated, and causes sudden action of the levators. This action and reaction goes on for hours, like the swinging of a pendulum, until the sphincter gradually calms down. To the finger the fissure feels soft and velvety, and shaped like the button-hole of a shirt. Treatment.—Local applications are of little use, but the most useful is an ointment of one part or more of the subacetate of copper to four parts of zinc ointment, to be used as a suppository at night after the bowels have acted. Operative.-—(1) Give the patient chloroform dee]}ly, and, with the two thumbs, forcibly over-stretch the anal aperture. (2) Another plan is to paint the surface of the ulcer with cocaine, then inject a few drops of the same solution just under its base, and introduce the index finger into the rectum with a straight probe-pointed knife, cutting to the point (see Fig. 121, page 36), and draw the edge of the knife along the fissure, so as to divide its base for one-eighth of an inch in depth. If the Surgeon chooses he may also forcibly stretch the anus at the same time. The plan of transfixing the base of the ulcer with a sharp-pointed curved bistoury, with the finger in the rectum to protect its walls from the point of the knife, must be avoided, as the finger might be pricked and the Surgeon in- oculated with syphili.s, to say nothing of other poisons in this neighbourhood. Prolapsus Recti.—This condition is most common in children, from the fact that the mucous coat is much looser than in the adult; the rectum is nearly straight, more vertically placed, and partly an abdominal organ in the child; and lastly, worms and484 Applied Anatomy: polypi are more common in childhood. In the child, too, a narrow meatus, phimosis, adhesions between the prepuce and the glans, and stone in the bladder, are also common causes of prolapse; as a rule the mucous membrane alone is prolapsed, forming a red limpet- shell-shaped mass with an opening at the apex. Sometimes, in the child, the whole thickness of the gut may be prolapsed, when a cylindrical, sausage-shaped florid mass is formed; the part prolapsed is the part just above the region of the sphincters, the very lower end being too firmly fixed to allow of prolapse. It is more apt to happen in the child, because the gut is straighter and its attach- ments looser than in the adult. The projecting mass may be stragulated by the sphincter, and become gangrenous. Stricture of the Rectum.—This may be (1) Simple, or it may be (2) Malignant. Simple. — May be caused by syphilitic, dysenteric, or other ulceration of the rectum, or after operations on the lower end of the gut. Simple fibrous is usually about the junction of the rectum with the sigmoid flexure. In syphilitic cases, the finger usually easily reaches the stricture. In tubercular ulceration, distinct induration is rare. Malignant. — Usually squamous - celled epithelioma, when it occurs at the verge of the anus, but columnar-celled when higher up. Observe, that if there be a healthy piece of bowel between the stricture and the anus, the stricture or ulceration is probably cancerous; but if the bowel between the anus and the stricture is not healthy, but scarred or seamed, the stricture or ulceration is probably syphilitic. Mr Bryant has pointed out, that when the stricture is quite low down, and easily within reach of the finger, the anus is often patulous; but when the stricture is high up, beyond the reach of the finger, the rectal wall is expanded or " ballooned." This, he states, is present in aU cases of chronic stricture. It is probably due to atrophy of the walls of the gut from disuse, and the retention of flatus. Symptoms of Stricture.—(1) Constipation, alternating with diarrhoea, persisting over a long period, in an elderly person, is always ominous. (2) Burning pain aud tenesmus, due to attempts to get rid of the foreign mass in the rectum. There arc also485 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. oolie-likc pains iu tlie abdomen. (3) lUood and mucus in the stools. (4) Patulous anus, or " ballooned " rectum. (5) Tape-like motions. (G) Pain down the thigh, probably from the fact that the malignant mass lias involved the branches of the sacral plexus. (7) Detection of the stricture by digital examination. To Treat malignant stricture we may either perform colotomy or excise the rectum. Colotomy may also be necessary in some forms of non-malignant stricture. The Finger in the Rectum may feel the following—(1) The temperature of the part, as indicating the existence or otherwise of inflammation of the rectum itself, or the parts near, such as the prostate. (2) The trigone of the bladder separated from the finger by the wall of the rectum, with the rectal and recto-vesical layers of pelvic fascia, with a packing of cellular tissue between. (3) The vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia, especially if enlarged, as in tubercular disease. (4) The prostate gland, about an inch and a half within the anus. (5) The membranous part of the urethra passing from the apex of the prostate. (Tj) The triangular ligament proper, as a tight band stretching between the rami of the pubes and ischium. (7) State of the sphincters and anal reflexes, the contraction of the anus on the finder is slower and feebler than in health, in crushes of the spinal cord. (8) Diagnosis between prostatitis and inflammation of the neck of the bladder; if of the prostate, there will be swelling, tenderness, and heat felt per rectum. Other things that may be felt are — fissure or ulcer of the anus, the internal opening of a fistula, a catheter in the mem- br anous urethra, folds of Houston, fajcal accumulations, stricture, piles (in the anal region), polypi (higher up); in the child we may feel the sound in the bladder, or a stone by the bimanual method; and lastly, ovarian, uterine, and pelvic tumours. In relation to the prostate gland, it is important to note whether it is hypertrophied; also note the nodular feel, with soft spots here and there, characteristic of tubercular disease, and the large size and pulpy feel of encephaloid cancer sometimes jnet with in young boys. In regard to the vesicuhe seminales and vasa deferentia, the chief point to note is the existence or not of tubercular disease. It is also possible to feel the obturator foi'umen, aiul486 Applied Anatomy: of importance, therefore, in the obturator form of hernia. Tlie sacrum, coccyx, spines, and tuberosities of the ischium. Excision of tfie Rectum.—This operation may be performed for malignant disease, provided the patient is not too old or exhausted, if tJie finger can be passed beyond the disease, and if the diseased mass is freely movable, showing that it has not infiltrated neigh- bouring parts, especially towards the base of the bladder; it should be remembered, however, that the prostate itself is mobile, and thus is apt to deceive the Surgeon. Probably the best way would be, first to pass a bougie into the urethra, and then note if the finger in the rectum moved the handle of the bougie while trykig to move the rectum from side to side. The patient must get a purgative the day before the operation, and the bowel must be thoroughly emptied by an enema on the morning of the operation. The patient is placed in the ordinary lithotomy position, the anus dilated, and a sharp-pointed bistoury is passed into the rectum, the point being brought out at the tip of the coccyx, and the jmrts between the anus and the coccyx divided by a single cut exactly in the middle line. If necessary the coccyx may be excised to give more room. During the operation all bleeding vessels must be seized at once by Wells's forceps. Ligatm:es are then passed into the two sides of the wound whereby the edges may be held apart during the subsequent steps. An incision is next carried round the anus from the margins of the wound, and the gut then separated from its posterior attachments by means of the finger and scissors. The sides are next dealt with, and then the gut is pulled backwards and carefully separated from its anterior connections, having previously passed a sound into the male bladder, and the finger into the vagina if the patient be a female, to act as guides. The gut itself must now be divided \ this may be done by the ecraseur, scissors, or the thermo-cautery. Two and a half or three inches may be removed without wounding the peritoneum; and if the bladder be full, the peritoneal pouch is less likely to be drawn down than when that viscus is empty. According to Harrison Cripps it is useless to attempt to bring down the mucous membrane of the divided gut to the anus, as the stitches always give way. The vessels are all to be clamped with Wells's forceps, which are then to be left on for forty-eightSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 487 hours. The wound must be washed with chloride of zinc solution and sprinkled with iodoform; it is left to heal by granulation. The causes of death are chiefly peritonitis, pelvic cellulitis, and hfemorrliage. The bowels must be kept quiet from ten to fourteen days by proper feeding and opium. The Pelvic Fascia.—This fascia consists of a parietcd part, covering the walls of the pelvic cavity, and a visceral part, which Fig. 228. General Structure of Abdomen. Diapliragiu Peritoueum Kast;ia Trans- versalis.... JUiscuIar Layei-.. Skin and Fascia Pelvis. •Abdomen. w. Pelvic Fascia. Levator Ani. Poriiieuiii. connects the various pelvic viscera Avith each other and with the walls of the pelvis; the whole visceral layer is sometimes known as the recto-vesical fascia. The parietal part is attached to the brim of the true pelvis and the posterior surface of the pubic bones, and passes down into the pelvis, covering the obturator internus muscle, and is attached to the spine and tuberosity of the the ischium; on the posterior pelvic wall it covers the pyriformis muscle and the .sacral plexus of nerves, but is behind the internal488 Applied Anatomy t iliac artery, the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic branches of which have to pierce it, in order to escape from the pelvis; but the obturator arteiy does not pierce it, as it passes over the upper border of the parietal layer. The visceral part is given off from the parietal layer, on a line with the spine of the ischium and the back of the pubes, the point where the two diverge being known as the " white line." The most anterior part passes backwards to the itpper surface of the prostate gland, forming the " pubo-prostatic ligament," and then passes on to the bladder, as the anterior true ligament of that viscus. The latter part divides into three layers; the most superior forms the lateral true ligaments of the bladder, the middle passes between the base of the bladder and the rectum (the recto-vesical layer), while the most inferior—the rectal layer —passes under the second and third i)arts of the rectum, and ensheatlis the levator ani. The relation of that part of the parietal layer of pelvic fascia above the "white line" (the "undivided" pelvic fascia of some) to the visceral layer, has been compared to that of the wall-paper and carpet of a room; and it is this carpet Avhich must on no account be cut in the operation of lithotomy. (Fig. 228). Pelvic Peritoneum,—In the Male, it completely invests the first i^art of the rectum, also forming the meso-rectum to this part, or the mesentery by which it is connected to the upper part of the sacrum; it next invests the sides and anterior aspect of the second part of the rectum, leaving it about three inches above the anus, and passing on to the lower and posterior surface of the bladder. It then passes forwards upon the posterior surface of the bladder, until it reaches its summit; it now leaves the bladder altogether, enveloping the urachus and lining tlie anterior abdominal wall. At the sides it covers the bladder as far as the level of the obliterated hypogastric arteries. In the Female, between the rectum and the uterus, the peri- toneum forms a pouch called the "Pouch of Douglas." It also covers a small part of the upper end of the vagina, and the cervix, body, and fundus of the uterus, on their posterior aspect; at the sides it forms the broad ligaments of the uterus. In front it passes down to the level of the internal os of the uterus, and from that point is reiiected on to the posterior surface of the bladder; theSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 489 rest of its course is as in the niiilo. The "Pouch of Douglas" is subdivided iuto three by means of the two utero-sacral folds, formed by folds of peritoneum passing between the rectum and the uterus; each fold contains the ureter, the obliterated hypogastric artery, the superior vesical artery, and a mass of cellular tissue. The left division of the pouch is deeper than the right. In tlie broad ligament we find—(1) The round ligament of the uterus; (2) the Fallopian tube; and (3) the ovary with its ligament —this order from before backAvards; also (4) parovarium; (5) the nerves, vessels, and lymphatics of the uterus and ovary; and (6) a considerable quantity of loose cellular tissue, which is frequently the seat of pelvic cellulitis. Inflammation of the pelvic peritoneum in the female is called pelvic peritonitis or perimetritis ; any part of the peritoneum below the brim of the true pelvis may be affected. Inflammation of the cellular tissue, below the jDeritoneum but above the levator ani, is called pelvic cellulitis or parametritis; the cellular tissue is found in the broad ligaments, in the space between the uterus and the bladder, and in the utero-sacral ligaments, as well as be- tween the rectum and vagina. Both conditions are usually caused by abortion, parturition, or gonorrhoea; it should be remembered tliat a direct communication exists from the outside into the pelvic peritoneum of the female, along the Fallopian tubes. THE SPERMATIC CORD. This structure extends from the internal abdominal ring, tlirough the inguinal canal, to the back part of the testicle. Its special Coverings are—(1) The inter-columnar, or external spermatic fascia; (2) the cremasteric fascia—consisting of fibrous tissue and muscle; and (3) the internal spermatic, or infundibuli- forrn fascia, or fascia propria. The component parts are—(1) Tlie vas deferens or excretory duct of the testicle. (2) Three arteries—(«) The spermatic, from the abdominal aorta; the cremasteric, from the deep epigastric; and {c) the artery to the van, from the superior vesical. (3) The spermatic plexus of veins (pampimform plexus). This plexus forms the chief mass of the cord, and passes up in front of the490 Applied Anatomy: vas; but at the'upper part they collect into a single trunk, wLicli enters the abdomen through the internal ring, terminating on the right side in the inferior vena cava, but on the left side in the left renal vein. (4) Lymphatics, which terminate in the lumbar glands. (5) Nerves—(a) The sympathetic plexus (from the renal plexus); and (J) the genital branch of the genito-crural, which supplies the cremaster muscle. This fact exjDlains the "cremasteric reflex," best seen in boys—that is, on tickling the inner side of the thigh over the distribution of the crural branch of the same nerve, the testicle of that side is observed to rise almost or quite up to the external abdominal ring. The Vas Deferens can always be recognised by the hard, firm, whip-cord-like sensation it gives when the cord is held between the finger and thumb. It commences at the lower part of the globus minor, and ascends along the posterior and inner side of the testis and epididymis, and then along the posterior part of the cord; at the internal abdominal ring it lies to the inner side of the spermatic vessels, then hooks round the deep epigastric artery and descends upon the inner side of the external iliac vessels into the pelvis. It now passes downwards and backwards upon the side of the bladder, crossing to the outside of the obliterated hypogastric artery; it next passes to the inner side of the ureter and reaches the base of the bladder, where it becomes dilated and slightly sacculated, and lies, at the trigone, to the inner side of the corresponding seminal vesicle. At the base of the prostate it unites with the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the common ejaculatory duct; this duct runs forwards and upwards in the prostate and along the sides of the sinus pocularis, ending in a slit-like opening at the margin of the sinus in the prostatic urethra. Each vas is about two feet in length; the walls are very thick and dense, but the canal is extremely small. In describing the course of the vas, note the five "inners." The vas deferens is sometimes ruptured, as the result of a sudden strain; the patient feels as if something had given way, experiences a severe pain in one or other groin, and a little while after bright blood flows from the urethra, but mic- turition is performed normally. Later, the cord and testicle become painful, tender, and swollen. It is usually followed by atrophy of the testicle.Si/ro/ra/, MediaxI, and Operative. 491 Special Pelvic Blood-Vessels in Female.—Arteries—(1) The uterine artery, which is a Lrauch of the anterior division of the internal iliac, and is found between the two layers of the broad ligament. It takes a very tortuous course, and its branches to the uterine walls are also spiral in direction, and preserve this feature in the substance of the uterus, and are tlierefore known as the " curling arteries of the uterus." (2) The vaginal artery, also from the anterior division of the internal iliac; it is distributed to the vagina, rectum, and bladder. (3) The ovarian artery, a branch of the abdominal aorta, resembling the spermatic in the male j it reaches the ovary by passing between the two layers of the broad ligament, and, after a very tortuous course, enters its anterior border. Veins.—There is no prostatic plexus in the female, hence the dorsal vein of the clitoris joins the vesical plexus; the vaginal plexus empties into the internal iliac vein, while the uterine plexus is drained chiefly by the ovarian veins; the uterine veins are not tortuous like the arteries. The ovarian veins are analogous to the spermatic in the male, and terminate in like manner—the right entering the inferior vena cava at an acute angle, while the left passes under the sigmoid flexure, and enters the left renal vem at a right angle. In the male this fact is said to explain, partly, the frequent occurrence of varicocele on the left side, as the vein is apt to be squeezed by the faecal accumulation in the sigmoid flexure; now, in the female, faecal accumulation is still more common, and this jierhaps helps to explain why it is that women so frequently complain of pain in tlie " left side," in the region of the ovary—the pressure on the vein leading to chronic venous congestion of the left ovary. From the communications between the pelvic plexuses of veins and the portal system of veins, it is easy to understand Avhy congestion of the liver, or any condition compressing the portal capillaries, should react on the pelvis, producing, as one symptom, menorrhagia. CASTRATION. This may be required for malignant disease of the testicle, as cystic sarcoma, chondro-sarcoma (" enchundroma"), and the different forms of cancerous disease, usually encephaloid ; also in492 Applted . 111 atomy: "simple" conditions that have resisted local and constitutional treatment, as large hernia testis, which is a source of annoyance and discomfort to the patient, some forms of syphilitic testicle, in tubercular disease, to prevent systemic infection, and in some cases of incompletely descended or misplaced testicle. The pubes is shaved, having first made sure of the absence of hernia on the side to be operated upon; the patient is jjlaced upon his back with his legs and thighs hanging over the end of the table. The instruments required are—Scalpel or straight bistoury, blunt hooks, sponges, ligatures, silk ligature for cord, aneurism needle, Wells's forceps, drainage tube, antiseptic dressings, scissors, chloroform, etc. The Surgeon stands between the patient's legs and grasps the posterior part of the testicle with his left hand so as to tighten the parts in front, while his assistant looks after the other testicle. In ordinary cases, the incision should extend from the external abdominal ring to the bottom of the scrotum, in order to ensure free access; if the tumour be large and the skin much stretched, so as to endanger its vitality—also in cases where it is involved by the malignant g^o^^^ih,—two elliptical incisions should be made, wide of the disease, enclosing a part of the skin of the scrotum. The tunica vaginalis should be next opened, lest an old ha?matocele may have been mistaken for a solid tumour of the testicle, and the testicle itself must be examined before attacking the cord, lest the original diagnosis may be at fault, and it is too late to remedy mistakes when the cord is divided. The testicle is then grasped with the left hand, while the coverings are shelled off with the right, and the firm fibrous mesorchium, stretcliing between the back of the testicle and the scrotum, divided by a touch of the scalpel. The cord is then isolated as high as thought necessary, and, in the case of malignant and tubercular disease, it will be well to open up the inguinal canal upon a director, in order to go if possible above the furthest limits of the disease. In dividing the cord we are always warned to be careful lest it be pulled up into the inguinal canal before the vessels are tied, and so pass beyond the reach of easy ligature; the cause of this retraction is said to be the cremaster muscle. This muscle arisesSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 493 from Poupart's ligament, and is inserted into the spine of the pubes by a small tendon, and it is about as difficult to see how it can lift the cord above its insertion, as it is to imagine a man lifting himself off the ground by pulling upon the waistband of his trousers. The cremaster is then divided, and the cord is grasped by two pairs of Wells's forceps, as it is too slippery to be held by the fingers of an assistant, and an aneurism needle, with a double ligature of stout silk, gradually passed through it; the ligature is then divided, and the cord tied in two halves, or the Staffordshire knot majr be used. Some tie it en masse. A sJtarp needle is not used to transfix the cord, lest it puncture a vein and set up phlebitis; the ligature being passed through the cord prevents any risk of slipping. Tie the vessels very carefully to avoid oozing, and by carefully applied pressure obliterate any cavity where the discharges can collect. The veins should be tied as well as the arteries. The spermatic artery is found in front, and the artery to the vas behind. If preferred, the vessels can all be secured separately, instead of tying cord and all in one or two parts. The cord is then divided half-an-inch below the ligature, and the testicle liberated by the fingers, aided by a touch of the knife. All bleeding vessels are then secured, especially in the septum scroti, a drainage tube is introduced and brought out at the lowes part of the wound, and the incision closed with sutures; the tube may be kept in for forty-eight hours. Should the operation be performed for tubercular disease the vas must be separated and divided as far up as possible, the operator bearing in mind the existence of the deep epigastric artery. The possible existence also of a patent processus vaginalis must be kept in mind, especially in the young, lest the injury set up fatal peritonitis. The dangers of the operation are—erysipelas, peritonitis, simple or septic, and septic thrombosis. THE PENIS. The two corpora cavernosa form the chief bulk of the organ; they are placed side by side above, and in the groove below is lodged the corpus spongiosum, wliich is pierced throughout its whole extent by the urethra. Cunningham facetiously likens494 Applied Anatomy: the relation of tlie three parts to the two barrels and ramrod of a double-barrelled gun; only in this case it is not the harrels that are perforated but the ramrod (Fig. 229). The root of the penis is formed by the bulb and the two crura. The crura are formed by the diverging corpora cavernosa, and are attached to the sides of the pubic arch; the bulb is formed by an expansion of the corpus spongiosum, and rests upon the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. Covering the bulb we find the accelerator iirince muscle, while each crus is covered by the erector penis muscle of the cor- responding side. In front, the corpora cavernosa end in rounded extremities, which are overlapped by the glans penis—the expanded anterior end of the corpus sj)ongiosum. Fig. 229. Section of Penis. The prepuce consists of two layers—an external or cutaneous layer, and an internal or mucous, or more properly, muco-cutaneous; as a matter of fact, the so-called " mucous " layer is really cutaneous. The skin passes for a variable distance beyond the glans, and is then folded in upon itself, forming the prepuce; and the internal layer is attached to the sulcus behind the corona glandis, where it blends with the mucous membrane covering the glans. Below the glans is the frcenum preputii, stretching from the lower angle of the meatus; in the fra3num is a small vessel which, if wounded, may give rise to serious hsemorrhage. Over the glans penis the mucous membrane is quite adherent to the underlying tissue, as there is no submucous tissue. The free margin of the prepuce, just where the thin, red, and moist muco-cutaneous layer joins the cutaneous or outer layer, is the narrowest part of the openingSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 495 of the prepuce, and it is this narrow ring that gives rise to the trouble in plumosis and paraphimosis. It is important to note tills ring in reference to the operation of circumcision; the con- traction is not of great breadth, being merely narrow and ring-like; hence, all that is required is to remove this ring, and if it is not removed, it matters but little what else is taken away, the con- dition will not be relieved without a second operation. The skin itself is not tight, only the mucous membrane and the part where it joins the skin. Nerves of the Penis.—The anterior branch of the perineal nerve supplies the under part of the integument of the penis, the rest of the integument—upper surface and sides—being supplied by the dorsal nerve of the penis, from the pudic. The erectile structure is supplied by offshoots from the prostatic plexus of the sympathetic; these offshoots communicate with the dorsal nerve of the penis. ISTow comes a curious fact: in cases where a segment of the spinal cord is destroyed, either by injury, e.g., as in fracture of the spine or inflammation—myelitis—thus cutting off the cord from the sensorium, even though the crush or inflammation be well up into the dorsal region, so that motion and sensation are completely destroyed as high as the umbilicus, or even higher, the 2)oint of the penis escapes, and still retains its sensation. It would seem, therefore, that the gUms penis has an entirely different sensory supply from the rest of the penis. Now there are, at least, two possible explanations of this:— The first and, I believe, the most likely explanation, is that the point of the penis is supplied by the right pneumogastric; this nerve, we know, joins the solar plexus, and it is probably con- ducted from this along the aortic plexus to the hypogastric plexus, and from thence through the prostatic to the point of the penis. I believe also that this view receives support both from physiology and psychology. The other explanation is that the supply of the glans comes from the spinal cord through the great splauchnics (which are derived from the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, from the sixth to the tenth inclusive), which we know also pass to the solar plexus (semiJnvar ganglia), and could then bo conveyed to the penis in the way already iiKtiitioiied. Tlio first, however is, I believe, the true explanation of this curious phenomenon.496 Applied Anatomy: Phimosis.—In this condition there is usually a long foreskin, the orifice of which is so contracted that it prevents exposure of the glans, and leads to the retention of the sebaceous secretion (smegma preputii, secreted by the glands of Tyson), setting up local irritation and inflammation, and may even prevent the patient making water properly. The condition may be congenital, or acquired, usually the result of inflammation or disease. There are two forms—(1) Where the prepuce is redundant—for this circumcise; and (2) where it is not redundant—for this snip the muco-cutaneous junction all round till the prepuce can be retracted, or else dilate the orifice with a glove stretcher. Fig. 230. Phimosis. The Cutaneous Layer of the Preimce. The " Mucous " Layer. G. The Glans Penis. C. The Corona Glaudls. R. R. The Contracted Ring that prevents the Prepuce from being pulled back; it is also the point that should be seized by the forceps in cii'cumeisiou. Circumcision is performed for the relief of the above con- ditions. In performing the operation, bear in mind what has already been stated about the relations of the cutaneous and mucous i^arts of the prepuce. A tape, or special clamp, or an elastic tourniquet is passed tightly round the root of the penis to control the hasmorrhage during the operation. The prepuce is then pulled backwards slightly, till the constricting ring is visible, which is to be seized by a pair of catch forceps, and then tlie prepuce pulled forwards over the end of the glans; this ensures the removal of the tight ring which is the cause of the condition, and the redundant prepuce gradually clipped off. Another planSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 497 is, with the penis in its natural position, to apply a pair of long- bladed polypus forceps (or dressing forceps) on the penis, at a level with the corona, the blades pointing forwards and downwards; the glans slipping back is thus protected, and the prepuce is sliced off by a sharp scalpel or scissors close to the forceps. The mucous layer still covering tlie glans is slit up along the dorsum as far as the corona with probe-pointed scissors; it must then be detached from the glans, to which it is often adherent, by means of the finger and thumb, or by a probe swept round the organ. Take care that you do not introduce the probe or one blade of the scissors into the meatus, thinking it to be between the mucous membrane and the glans. Tlie square corners are then to be trimmed off with tlie scissors, and the mucous and cutaneous layers stitched together with silk, either by the ordinary interrupted or continuous suture. The patient must rest in bed for a week or ten days. In infants, sutures are unnecessary; all that is required is to wrap a strip of dry lint or iodoform gauze behind the corona to keep back the mucous membrane, and fasten it on by a figure-of-eight bandage, in the form of a cotton thread, the point where the two cones meet being the corona glandis. Paraphimosis.—In this condition the prepuce has been drawn forcibly back, and the ring before mentioned sinks into the sulcus behind the corona glandis, and effectually prevents the replacement of the parts into their proper position; the constriction speedily causes great swelling from congestion and oedema, forming a large round collar, which is the swollen mucous" layer of the prepuce, and which is placed in front of the constricting ring (Fig. 231). Further back the skin and subcutaneous tissue are swollen; hence, we find two swellings, and between the two a deep, narrow sulcus, at the bottom of which is the tight ring of the prepuce. In cases requiring an incision, the large collar is drawn forwards, and the point of a narrow-bladed scalpel passed into the sulcus behind it. It is usually done in the middle of the dorsal surface of the penis; but, as the vessels are there, it would probably be better to go a little to one side. Amputation of the Penis.—The chief risk of this operation is the production of an imj)ermcable organic stricture of the urethra at the point of section. To avoid this the corpus spongiosum must *2i498 Applied Anatomy: be mt longer than tlie corpora cavernosa. Some means must be adopted to control the hasmorrhage, such as the elastic tourniquet, or Clover's clamp; the skin is then divided circularly, and the corpora cavernosa cut carefully through from the dorsal surface, care being taken not to wound the corpus spongiosum, which is then separated from the cavernosa in front and divided three- quarters of an inch further forwards (Fig. 232). The urethra is then split by a varying number of incisions, and stitched to Fig. 231. Paraphimosis. The Collar-like Swelling formed by the Swollen and The Cutaneous Layer CEdematous " Mucous " Layer of the Prepuce...; • of the Prejiuce. G. The Glaus Penis. C. The Corona Glandis. R. R. The Contracted Ring, which is held behind the Corona and keeps up the condition. an aperture in the lower part of the tube of skin; hence, as the .skin surface contracts, it tends rather to dilate the urethral canal (Fig. 233). The vessels are then tied, and the capsules of the corpora cavernosa stitclied from side to side by two or three ■sutures, which also include the septum — thus effectually con- trolling the hajraorrhage from this quarter.Surgical^ Medical, and Operative. 499 The Structures divided are—(1) Skin; (2) just under the skin on the dorsum, the central vein with an artery, and a nerve on each side; (:T) the corpora cavernosa with the pectiniform septum, with an artery to each corpus, and one to the septum; and (4) the corpus spongiosum. There are therefore five arteries to ligature— the two dorsal arteries, one for each corpus cavernosum, and one in the septum (see Fig. 229). Fig. 232. Amputation of Penis.—First Stage. Skin Corpus Caver- uosus Urethra and Spongiosum. Fig. 233. Amputation of Penis.—Second Stage. Coi-piis Cavemosus... Skin turned down over end ol'Corpu.s... Urethra lirought through Skin below Lymphatics of the Penis.—Tlie lymphatics from the integu- ment and prepuce join the horizontal set of the superficial inguinal glands; in epithelioma, soft chancre, and gonon-hcea, therefore, this group will enlarge. The deep lymphatics pass along the internal pudic vessels and end in the internal iliac group of glands.Applied Anatomy: 500 Lymphatics of Pelvis and Abdomen.—The Pelvis—In the pelvis we find three groups of glands—(a) The exte)-nal iliac, a chain accompanying the vessels of that name; three' are placed at the beginning of the artery, just ahove Poui^art's ligament. This set of glands communicates below with the femoral, and above with the lumbar glands, {h) The internal iliac glands surround the vessels of the same name, and communicate with the lumbar glands; these glands receive vessels from the bladder, prostate, uterus, and penis, (c) The sacral glands occupy the sides and front of the sacrum; this group receives vessels from the bladder, rectum, and uterus, and also communicates Avith the lumbar group. The Abdomen. — The glands of the abdomen are called the lumbar glands. They are placed on the front of the lumbar vertebra?, surrounding the common iliac vessels, the aorta, and inferior vena cava; they receive the lymphatics from the lower extremities, pelvis, testes, and most of the viscera of the lower part of the abdomen. In cases, therefore, of malignant disease of these parts they ought to be examined. If much enlarged, they may cause obstruction of the vena cava inferior or of the common iliac veins. Marked pain in the lumbar region probably indicates that these glands are implicated. FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Fascia Transversalis.—This is an extensive sheet that lines the entire abdominal wall, lying between the muscles and the extra-peritoneal fat. Above, it is thin, and becomes continuous with the fascia lining the under surface of the diaphragm : below, it is much thicker, and is attached to the inner lip of the iliac crest, and it is here continuous Avith the iliac fascia—the fascia covering the psoas and iliacus in the iliac fossa. ToAvards the front, it is attached to Poupart's ligament, external to the iliac vessels; and internal to tliese vessels, to the ilio - pectineal line and pubic bone behind the conjoined tendon. About half-an-inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament the spermatic cord passes through it, pushing a funnel-shaped process before it (the ivfinuli- hiiliform fascia), and opposite the femoral vessels it is prolonged into the thigh, as the anterior layer of the femoral sheath. CloseSiirgicn/, Medical, and Operative. to tho iliac crest this fascia is pierced b}' the tenuiual hranchcs of the deep circuiuHex iliac artery, ilio-hypogastric, and last dorsal nerves. Ilio-psoas Fascia.—This is one continuous sheet also, covering these muscles in the iliac fossa. Above the level of the iliac crests, it is thin and narrow and envelops the psoas muscle, being attached externally to the anterior layer of the fascia lumhorum (that layer arising from the root of the transA^erse processes and passing in front of the quadratus lumhorum), and internally to the spinal column by a series of fibrous arches that bridge over the lumbar arteries. Above, it forms the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Below, it is more properly called the iliac fascia, and is attached to the crest of the ilium externally; and internally, after passing over the psoas, it is fixed to the brim of the true pelvis and side of sacrum. Ou the outer side of the external iliac vessels it is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and is, with it, attached to Poupart's ligament, and behind the vessels it is carried doAvn into the thigh as the posterior layer of the femoral sheath. It passes with the ilio-psoas muscle to its insertion, and blends with the fascia lata; there is no definite septum between the psoas and iliacus, and it is only loosely attached to both, on the ujjper surface. The external Uiac vessels lie upon this fascia, the anterior crural and external cutaneous nerves lie behind it, while tlie genito-crural nerve pierces it to join the external iliac artery. A Psoas Abscess passes under the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and enters tho psoas sheath, passes down and forms a swelling above the middle of Poupart's ligament j it does not, as a rule, pass into the pelvis, because of the attachment of the ilio-psoas fascia to the brim, but fills up the iliac fossa. It then passes by a nan-ow neck under Poupart's ligament in the line of the anterior crural nerve to the outer side of the femoral vessels; then, guided by the profunda, it passes under the femoral vessels and forms a collection on the inner side of these structures, bounded by the adductor magnus behind, the longus in front, and the gracilis internally. A fully formed psoas abscess, there- fore, consists of four parts—(1) A narrow part in tho psoas sheath, (2) a well in the iliac fossa, (3) a narrow neck under Poupart's ligament, and (4) a well in the inner side of the thigh (Fig. 234),Applied Anatomy: 502 Fluctuation will usually be obtained between the iliac and tlie thigli collection. The after course of this abscess varies. It may pass backwards along the internal circumilex, and point behind; but usually the psoas fascia adheres to the skin in front, and it Fig. 234. Psoas Abscess. Psoas Sheath. ..Iliac Fcssa. ..Under i'oupart's Liga- ment and Sheath of Vessels. ..Tuner Side of Vessels. points or is opened. Sometimes this adhesion does not take place, as the thigh coUection often appears suddenly, when the pus then bursts through the fascia, and burrows down the limb, even as low as the heel. Sometimes, instead of forming a psoas abscess.503 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the pus passes between the pillars of the diaphragm with the aorta, follows the iliac vessels into the iliac fossa, and points above Poupart's ligament, or passes into the jjelvis along the internal iliac, and from that to the gluteal region along the gluteal artery, through the great sacro-sciatic notch. The source of a psoas abscess is usually spinal caries of the lower dorsal region; also, perinephritic collections of pus, or from an empyema; more rarely, from sacro-iliac disease, or suppuration following a primary psoitis. The Lumbar Plexus of Nerves is placed in the substance of the psoas muscle, and in psoas abscess, therefore, any or all of its branches may be irritated, giving rise to pain in the distribution of the nerve. This is specially the case with the genito-crural nerve, in young persons, the irritation thus caused producing persistent erections of the penis. The branches of the lumbar plexus are:— 3. Genito-crural—Derived from the second and third lumbar nerves. 4. External Cutaneous—Derived from the second and third lumbar nerves. 5. Anterior Crural—Derived from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves. 6. Obturator — Derived from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. The plexus is formed by the first three lumbar nerves, M'ith a part of the fourth. The rest of the fourth and the fifth unite to form the lumbosacral cord. The branches leave the psoas thus:— Anterior Crural ^ Genito-crural—Pierces the anterior surface. Obturator—Pierces the inner border. In Dorsal Abscess, the follows the intercostal arteries and reaches the surface along the posterior branches. It is most often met with in upper and mid dorsal disease. 1. nio-hypogastric 2. Ilio-inguinal Derived from the first lumbar nerve. Ilio-hypogastric Ilio-inguinal External Cutaneous504 Applied Anatomy: An Iliac Abscess forms a swelling between the crest of tlic ilium and the femoral vessels, and does not extend into the thigh at all. In this case look for disease of the lumhar sjiiuc, the sacro- iliac joint, necrosis of the ilium, or suppuration around the cajcum or sigmoid flexure. In a perityphilitic abscess, and abscess round the sigmoid flexure, the pus is not beneath the iliac fascia but above it, and therefore does not spread down the thigh, but fdls out the corresponding iliac fossa and bulges at the femoral ring. In a case of iliac abscess with, at the same time, signs of hip joint disease, it is most probably due to disease of the acetabulum. Pelvic Abscess.—This is an abscess associated with the boun- daries or contents of the true pelvis. Such abscesses may " point" in the groin in the position of an iliac abscess, in the inguinal canal, or pass into the scrotum or the labia in the female; in the one case, the cord or vas deferens is the guide by which the abscess travels, in the other, it is the round ligament of the uterus. A pelvic abscess may also escape through one of the sciatic foramina and appear as a deep abscess in the buttock; in this case the arteries that pierce the pelvic fascia will guide the pus—gluteal, sciatic, or pudic. The abscess may be due to disease of the acetabidum, supjjuration in the cellular tissue in front of the bladder or around the rectum, and abscess of the seminal vesicles spreading along the vas to the inguinal canal and into the scrotum. In the female pelvic cellulitis is extremely common, and the abscess may spread up along the round ligament; the usual causes in the female arc— diflicult labour, miscarriage, or gonorrhwa. Lumbar Abscess.—This is an abscess that makes its way through the muscles or fascia of the posterior abdominal wall, being guided along some of the structures that pierce it, as the ilio-hypogastric and last dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries; it usually points in the region of the triangle of Petit, at the outer border of the erector spinas. It may be caused by disease of the spine, or a perinephritic abscess may open in this region, and the right side abscesses may be connected with the caecum. In lower lumbar and upper sacral disease the pus may enter the sheath of the pyriformis, follow the sacral nerves, and point in the buttock beneath the gluteus maximus, or pass into the505 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. iscliio-rectal fossa, or even into the rectum. In disease of the tuber ischii, the pus is found in the line of the hamstrings, as these muscles arise from that bone. The course of the difl'erent forms of abscess depends on, or is determined by—(1) The tube or compartment of fascia in which it originally finds itself, or into wliich it has penetrated, as in psoas abscess. (2) Gravity, e.g., a psoas, or gluteal abscess reaching as low as the knee or even the heel; or which might have been a psoas abscess had the patient preserved the erect posture, becoming a luinhar from the patient resting chiefly on his back. (.3) The weakest parts of the fascia enclosing the abscess, or it may detach it from a part where it is least firmly adherent, as a psoas pass- ing into the pelvis posteriorly. (4) The presence of the fascial sheaths round arteries and veins through muscular layers—e.g., an abscess from hip disease passing to the buttock along the internal circumflex or obturator arteries, also lumbar and dorsal abscesses. (•5) The presence of like tubes near nerves, as a psoas passing into the pelvis along the lunibo-sacral cord. These various structures act as weak points, and predispose to the various paths that such abscesses often take.Applied Anatomy : 506 CHAPTEE XLV. GYN/ECOLOGICAL OPERATIONS. OVARIOTOMY. Chief instruments required.—Scalpel, probe-pointed bistoiiry, scissors, ten pairs of Wells's or PiAN^s artery forceps, Nelaton's volsella forceps, trocar for tapping cyst, with elastic tubing, blunt books, clamp and cautery, carbolised silk ligatures, sutures of car- bolised silk, or silk worm-gut, threaded to a needle at each end, for stitching up the abdominal wound, glass drainage tube, hand mirror or bull's-eye lantern, sponges, eight large and four small— one should be large and flat—large forceps for adhesions, spatulte, dissecting forceps, sponge holders, porcelain trays for instruments, tenacula, needles on fixed handles, aneurism needle, needle holder, carbolic lotion, and dressings. Preliminary.—The operation should be performed about a Aveek or ten days after a menstrual period. It is usually done when the tumour is about the size of a six months' child, but may be done earlier if it be diagnosed. Do not mistake pregnancy for an ovarian tumour; if in doubt, wait till the tumour is at least nine months old. The bowels should be cleared out by an aperient dose of castor oil, given two nights before the operation, followed by an enema early in the morning of the operation. The patient should take a bath the night before the operation. The temperature- of the operating-room should be about sixty degrees Fahrenheit. The patient should be clothed with loose, warm, night-clothes, and long woollen stockings. The abdomen is washed, and shaA^ed if necessary, at the point Avhere the incision is to be made, and covered by a waterproof, Avith an oval hole in it, six inches by eight; the edges of the opening are sjiread Avith a coating of507 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. adhesive plaster, so as to adhere to the skin and protect the patient's dress from hlood, lotion, etc. Take care that the bladder is emptied by the catbeter before the patient is placed on the table. Take a careful note of all the sponges and self-holding forceps to be used at the operation, and on no account should sponges be torn up during the operation. Position of the Patient.—She is placed on her back, on an ordinary table, with her shoulders slightly elevated, and her feet towards the window, in order that the light may be reflected into the wound. Her legs and chest should be warmly covered, and hot water-bottles should be laid at her feet and sides. The operator stands on her right side, with his back to the window. The Chief Steps of the operation are:— 1. Make an incision, four or five inches long, in the linea alba, beginning about an inch below the umbilicus. Cut through the skin and fascia, fat, and linea alba; secure all bleeding vessels, and then divide the fascia transversalis, extra-peritoneal fat, and peritoneum. 2. Having exposed the cyst, plunge in Wells's or Tait's trocar, and evacuate its contents as far as possible; the hand may also be introduced into the cyst, and septa broken down. Place two or three sponges into the pelvic cavity, and also above the tumour. 3. Seize the coUaj^sed cyst wall with Nelaton's forceps, and pull it out of the abdomen; the assistant mean- while, by means of the large, flat sponge, and pressure upon the abdominal wall, prevents the intestines from protruding. 4. Transfix the pedicle with a blunt needle, armed with a double carbolised silk ligature, avoiding all obvious veins; it may be tied in two or three portions, accord- ing to its size and vascularity. Keith secures the pedicle by means of the ordinary cautery, with cautery- clamp. The clamp alone is seldom used now-a-days. With the cautery, or ligature, the pedicle is dropped back into the abdomen; with the clamp, it is treated508 Applied Anatomy: extra-peritoncally. ([Jreat caru is re(|uircd in the treat- ment of adhesions, especially -when adherent to the abdominal or pelvic viscera. 5. AVhen the pedicle and adhesions are secured, and tlie tumour removed, search for the other ovary, and remove it if it he distinctly cystic. 6. Take out the sponges and examine them for signs of bleeding, carefully cleanse the peritoneum, for no serum or blood should be left in the abdomen. Searcli for bleeding points by means of the hand mirror or bull's-eye lamp, and secure them. liemove all forceps and sponges, and count them. 7. Place the flat sjjonge in the incision, and sew up the abdominal wound M'ith carbolised silk, or silk worm- gut, threaded to a needle at each end, introducing the needles from the peritoneal side, and avoiding the recti muscles. Pass all the sutures, remove the sponge, and then tighten them. Take care that they bring the divided edges of the parietal peritoneum into apposi- tion, otherwise ventral hernia may follow. 8. In simple cases, no drainage tube is required, as the peritoneum is sufficiently absorbent; in cases with strong and numerous adhesions, a glass drainage tube should be passed into the pouch of Douglas. The tube should have a broad flange of india-rubber, and over its end a sponge should be placed to soak up the serum. The patient is now carried back to bed, which must previously be Avarmed for her; she is to be covered mth light, warm clothing, and hot bottles placed around her, if necessary, and her knees supported by pillows. Little food is allowed for thirty-six hours, but hot water may be allowed ad llhitum, a little milk being added in the course of twenty-four hours; and later, beef-tea ]nay also be allowed. The bowels should be kept at rest, and she should take liquid food only, for at least a week. If the patient is restless after the operation, morphia may be given hypodermically at bedtime.509 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The Ovary consists of three parts, each of wliicli may give rise to cj'sts :— 1. The Odphoron, or ovary proper, the egg-bearing part. 2. The Paroophoron, which is lodged in the concavity of the oi-iphoron, and usually known as the hilus. It is almost entirely composed of the remains of the Wolffian body, in various stages of retrogression. 3. The Parovarium.—It is connected with the parooiDhoron, and consists of a series of vertical tubes, the persistent remains of the excretory ducts of the AVolffian body. It consists of three parts—(a) A distal series of tubules, attached by one end only—Kobelt's tubes; {h) a row of tubes, connected by one end with the paroophoron, while the other end joins (c) a common collecting canal, the representative of the segmental duct in the adult female, known as G^ertner's duct. Parovarian cysts are situated above the ovary proper, Avhile the Fallopian tube arches over their upper border. UTERINE FIBROIDS. These tumours consist of fibrous tissue and non-striped muscle in varying proportions, and are more properly called fihro-myomata, or they may even be pure myomata. In the first instance they all spring from the muscular coat of the uterus, but as they increase in size they may assume one of three positions, or varieties. Varieties.—1. Subperitoneal, when they grow outwards into the peritoneal cavity, and either fiU up the abdominal cavity or become jammed in the pelvis. This variety does not cause haemor- rhage or increase of menstruation. If it is not too large it may be removed as in ovariotomy, securing the pedicle as there described, or stitching the peritoneum over the face of the stump. AVlien large or numerous, perform " Hysterectomy." 2. Interstitial, where the tumour remains and continues to grow in the wall of the uterus, and does not become pedunculated. They are soft or firm : the soft form causes great ha^uorrliage. For their treatment We may (1) perform Battey's operation, orApplied Anatomy: 610 (2) Lawson Tait's operation, (3) do Hysterectomy, or (4) adopt Apostoli's treatment. 3. Submucous, when the tumour projects into, and dilates, the uterine cavity; they lie just below the mucous membrane, and may be sessile or pedunculated. When pedunculated, they are known as fibroid polypi. They act as foreign bodies, and cause uterine contractions and great hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the uterus. The usual treatment is to dilate the cervix, divide the mucous membrane, and shell out the sessile variety, or divide the pedicle and remove the polypoid form. These fibroid tumours develop during the period of active sexual life, being greatest probably between the ages of thirty and forty. They do not begin before puberty, nor after the menopause; their growth, in fact, being usually arrested after the menopause, though the menopause is often delayed when they are present. They very often cause sterility. The Surgeon may have to interfere because of the severe haemorrhage they often cause, or on account of their rapid increase in size, and severe pressure symptoms on the abdominal or pelvic viscera, especially the bladder and urethra; he must be prepared to remove the entire body of the uterus if necessary—"hysterectomy." Ergot of rye has often a beneficial effect on fibroids: it acts in two ways—by diminishing the blood supply, and by favouring the pedunculation and expulsion of the submucous variety. Natural Terminations.—(1) Before the menopause, they may continue to grow, or remain, stationary; after the menopause, they usually atrophy and disappear. Pregnancy may also cause their disappearance. 2. They may degenerate—as fatty degeneration, become oedematous, inflamed, and gangrenous, or they may become calcified, or ossified, forming " womb-stones." (3) The submucous form may become pedunculated by the uterine contractions; or (4) they may become extruded, from the pedicle being torn across. HYSTERECTOMY. In this operation the body of the uterus is removed along witli the tumour—in short, amputation of the uterus at the os internum. Tliis operation is a very serious one, and should not be performed except when the growth of the tumour is rapid, the patient young511 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. and far from the meuopause, or when htemorrhage is great and frequent, or the patient actually crippled by the weight and pain of the tumour, and other operations, as Battet's operation or Lawson Tait's operation, are out of the question. For the proper performance of this operation, the cervix should not be the seat of fibroid growth, for then it will be very difficult to clamp the pedicle properly. The Chief Steps of the operation are:— 1. Make a sufficiently large abdominal incision, as in ovariotomy; the bladder must be watched for, as it is often raised up with the tumour. In order to assist the definition and separation of the bladder, it is advised that it should not be emptied before the operation, as it is in ovariotomy. 2. Draw out the uterus, and take care that no sessile growths are wrenched off while so doing, as the raw surface bleeds freely. Should such an accident happen, the assistant must keep a sponge pressed against the raw surface till the uterus is removed. Separate all adhesions very carefully, and then— 3. Attend to the pedicle. On account of the dangers from hasmorrhage and peritonitis, it is usually treated by the extra-peritoneal method, in all cases where a part of the uterus is cut away; for then, not only is the pedicle large, but there is great risk of septic infection from the vagina through the uterine canal. It may be secured either by using Ivoeberle's serre-noeud, or Keith's or Tait's clamp. In the former case, the stout wire is passed round the neck of the tumour, about the level of the os internum, and drawn tight. The pedicle is then transfixed by two stout pins, which lie outside the abdominal wound, one on each side, the points of the pins being specially guarded; the pins prevent the pedicle from slipping back into the abdomen. 4. The mass is next cut away above the wire, the intestines being protected by sponges, and blood prevented from passing into the abdomen as far as possible by the512 Applied Anatomy: assistant closely following the knife with a sponge and sopping up the blood. After removal of the mass Dr Keith scoops out and disinfects the cervical canal, and applies a solution of perchloride of iron to the stump. The stump is then placed at the lower angle of the abdominal incision. 5. Carefidly clean out the peritoneal cavity as in ovariotomy, and then close the abdominal wound by sutures brought close up to the pedicle. The clamp wire is tightened day by day, the stump meanwhile being kept clean and dry, and dusted with iodoform. The distal end of the pedicle usually separates in about three weeks. It would be rarely possible, or advisable, to perform this operation for malignant disease of the uterus, as malignant disease usually attacks the cervix—the very part that is left in this opera- tion. On the subject of Hysterectomy for uterine fibroids, Dr Thomas Keith thus writes:—" What I now plead for is, that for a time all bloody operations for the treatment of uterine fibroids should cease, and that Dr Apostoli's treatment,* as practised by him, should have a fair trial Hysterectomy, remember, which is performed every day for a complaint that rarely of itself shortens life, kills every fourth or fifth woman who is subjected to it. This mortality must cease; it is not a question of Surgerj^, it is a question of humanity." REMOVAL OF THE OVARIES. The removal of the ovaries is known as " Battey's Operation," or Oophorectomy. In this operation the ovaries alone are removed. The name, properly speaking, should be restricted to cases where the ovaries removed are of normal size, or, at least, not the seat of large tumours. This operation may be required —(1) In cases of severe dysmenorrhoea, with serious general symptoms; (2) to check the growth of uterine fibroids, especially when they are the cause of severe haemorrhage, uncontrollable by other means; (3) hystero- epilepsy; and (4) prolapsed and fixed ovaries. Battey's object, * Treatment by Electricity.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. \vheu ho performed this operation, was to bring on a premature menopause; experience, however, has since shown that it does not do so. The operation may be performed :— I. Through the Vagina— 1. An incision is made in the posterior vaginal wall, behind the cervix, and in the middle line, for about an inch and a half. 2. The peritoneal cavity is then opened and the ovary hooked down, either by the finger or polypus forceps. 3. The pedicle is then ligatured close to the hilus with fine carbolised silk and the ovary cut off. The other ovary is treated in the same way. 4. Pass a drainage tube, close the Avound if thought neces- sary, and irrigate twice daily with a weak antiseptic solution. II. They may also bo removed through an opening in the Abdomen— 1. Make an opening into the abdomen, as in ovariotomy. 2. Pass in the fingers and feel for the fundus of the uterus, and then follow the Fallopian tube till the ovary is reached. 3. Draw the ovary out, transfix the broad ligament with fine carbolised silk, and ligature near the hilus; and tlien cut the pedicle about half-an-inch to the ovary side of the ligature, and remove the ovary. Treat the other ovary in the same way. See that there is no bleeding from the pedicle before it is dropped into the abdomen. 4. Close the incision as in ovariotomy. TAIT'S OPERATION. In this operation tlie "uterine appendages"-—Fallopian tubes and ovaries—are removed. He makes a two-inch abdominal incision, frees adhesions, taps any cysts present, and then pulls the tubes up to or through the abdominal incision, ligatures with the Stall'ordsliirc knot, and removes tlic tube and ovar}'. The * 2kApplied Anatomy: 514 j)edicle is then dropped back, and a glass drainage tube introduced. If the tube cannot be removed, the opening in it is carefully stitched to the abdominal incision. Tait believes that removal of the uterine appendages will arrest menstruation. The operation may be required—(1) To control htemorrhage in the case of fibroid tumours, and to stop their growth or cause their atrophy; (2) menstrual epilepsy; (3) chronic ovaritis; (4) salpingitis, haamatosalpins, pyosalpinx and hydro- salpinx. In the latter cases, the tubes are removed because they are diseased, and the ovaries because they are probably diseased as well, and because they are of no use without the tubes. In fibroids, both ovaries and tubes are removed, in order to check the haemorrhage. It may also be performed for tubal or ovarian dysmenorrhoea ("appendage dysmenorrhoea"). The leading signs of this condition are—(1) Premenstrual pain, often severe; (2) more or less continuous pelvic pain; (3) profuse menstruation; (4) sterility; and (5) dyspareunia. EXCISION OF THE WHOLE UTERUS. (Freund's Operation.) This operation has been performed in the case of malignant disease of the uterus. It may be performed :— I. By Abdominal Incision (Freund's method).—The mortahty in this method is very high, and therefore most operators have given it up in favour of the vaginal method. The abdomen is opened, the uterus separated and fixed, and then each broad ligament is ligatured in three parts, the lowest ligature passmg through the lateral fornices of the vagina. The uterus is next cut away from the broad ligaments, the peritoneum divided aU round the cervix, and its connection with the fornices severed, and the whole organ removed. The ends of the ligatures are brought through the hole in the roof of the vagina, and a drainage tube introduced into the same opening. II. Through the Vagina.—In the first instance, the vagina must be thoroughly disinfected. The operation is performed with the patient in the lithotomy position, and a douche is so arranged that a stream of warm carbolised water may continually irrigateSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 515 the vagina. A strong wire is passed througli the cervix, in order to pull down the uterus towards the vulva; the labia are held aside, and the sides of the vagina separated if necessary. The Chief Steps of the operation (after Sir Spencer Wells) are— 1. Division and loosening, and pushing up, to the extent of a half to three-quarters of an inch of the vaginal mucous membrane, behind, in front, and all roiuid the cervix. 2. Pushing upwards, or separation of the bladder and ureters from the neck and anterior surface of the body of the uterus, as in the abdominal method, but the peritoneum is not cut into. 3. Opening of Douglas's pouch and the introduction of a sponge to keejj ujj the small intestines. Two fingers of the left hand may also be introduced and passed over the fundus, into the interval between the uterus and the bladder, and an incision then made from the front of the cervix down upon the fingers, dividing the peritoneum anteriorly. In this way the uterus is now I'reed in front and behind. 4. The next step is to secure the uterine arteiie.s on both sides, by ligature or by the pressure foi'ceps. Each broad ligament may be ligatured in two parts, and an additional ligature jjut round the Avhole for safety. 5. A'ext divide the broad ligaments and other attachments; remove the uterus and examine the pedicles for bleed- ing points, and secure them at once. 6. Remove the sponges and brhig the pedicles into tlie wound in the roof of the vagina, and fix in position by suture, and introduce a T-shaped drainage tube between the pedicles into the peritoneal cavity. Lastly, arrange the ligature threads or forceps, and plug tlie vagina loosely with iodoform gauze. Sir Spencer AVells lays great stress upon two points in this operation—(1) The extreme care necessary in the separation of the bladder and ureters from the uterus; neither should beApplied Anatomy: ■\voiuided, and care should be taken not to ligature one or both ureters. (2) The second point he insists upon is the substitution of forcipressure for the ligature; they must be left on for twenty- four, thirty-six, or even forty-eight hours, until all danger of bleeding has ceased. Such a plan is simjjler than ligature, more secure, takes much less time, and saves much trouble and suffering to the patient after the operation. C^SARIAN SECTION. This operation consists in making an incision through the abdominal and uterine walls for the extraction of a living child. Indications.—When the conjugate at the brim is two inches or less, with a transverse of only three inches, as sometimes seen in cases of rickets or malacosteon; also in cases where ovarian tumours are associated with pelvic deformities. It is also indicated in cases of cancer of the cervix, because dilatation is but slowly and dangerously effected, from the risk of lacerations, hemorrhage, and blood poisoning. In some cases this operation is performed where the life of the child is of more value than the life of the mother. It may even be practised on the dead woman, from five to twenty minutes after the last breath, after the seventh month oJ' pregnancy, with a chance of saving the child. Best Time to Perform.—After labour has begun, in cases requiring tliis operation, the sooner it is performed the better. The best time is that which immediately precedes the rupture of the membranes, /.e., after labour has begun, but before tlie close of the first stage. Should labour be anticipated, it will be necessary to start uterine action before beginning the operation, in order to make the uterus contract afterwards and prevent "flooding." Operation.—The rectum and bladder must be emptied before beginning the operation. An assistant must fix the uterus with liis two hands applied to the sides of the abdomen. Tlie Surgeon tlien makes an incision, at least five to seven inches long, in tlic linea allja between the umbilicus and the pubes. The various tissues are cut through, and the bleeding points secured as in ovariotomy. INIake a small opening in tlie peritoneum, introduce a couple of lingers of the left hand, on the palmar aspect of Avhich517 Surg-ical, Medical, and Operative. a probe-pointed bistoury is slid, so as to enlarge the incision; the uterus is now exposed. Open the uterus in the centre of the anterior wall; and to allow of this, it may be necessary for the assistant to twist it a little round, so that this point may bo opposite the abdominal wound. In this way the large vessels at the sides are avoided. Make a small incision at the upper part, then introduce the left index finger, and enlarge the wound with a probe-pointed bistoury; it is necessary to do this qulrlihj, because of the great li£emorrhage. The assistant in the meantime must jam the uterine incision against the abdominal one, especially at the upper and lower angles, to prevent blood passing into the abdominal cavity. Extract the child, taking the head out first; because, if the legs were taken first, the uterus might contract and imprison the head, while the cold, acting on the child's legs and body, might induce inspiratory efforts and suffocate it. Strip off the placenta and membranes artificially, pass a sponge jirobang of some size through the cervix uteri and out at the vagina, so as to secure a free exit for lochial or other discharges. The peritoneal cavity must then be carefully cleansed, the wound in the uterus stitched with silk separately, or else fixed to the abdominal wound; a glass drainage tube is then passed into the abdominal wound. The dangers of this operation are—(1) Haemorrhage, (2) shock, and (3) jieritonitis. LAPARO-ELYTROTOMY. ( Thomas's OrERATioN.) In this operation the cervix is reached by an incision through tlie lower part of the abdominal wall and upper part of the vagina, and through it tlie fuitns is extracted. Its advantages over Csesarian Section are — ( 1 ) That the peritoneum is not opened into, and (2) that the uterine wall is not incised, so that one of the chief risks of (Jtesarian Section— luumorrhage—is avoided. The cases requiring the operation are those necessitating CjBsarian Section, when the mother is alive. It .should not be performed in cases of tumours obstructing tlic pelvic cavity, cnrcinoma, norApplied Anatomy: 518 fibroid of the uterus, nor when the head is firmly impacted in the pelvic brim. It cannot be performed twice on the same side. The operation is performed on the right side, since the presence of the rectum on the left side is against the operation on that side. Four special assistants are necessary, besides the one who administers chloroform. Position of the Patient.—She is placed on her back, with the pelvis raised, and in the same position as for ovariotomy. Before beginning the operation, the cervix must be dilated as far as possible. The operator stands on the right side. An assistant, standing on the left side, draws the uterus upwards, and to the left, as far as possible, while the Surgeon makes the incision. The incision begins one inch above the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and is carried downwards and inwards, in a slightly curved direction, parallel with Poupart's ligament, to a point about two inches above, and a like distance external to, the sjDine of the pubes —i.e., about the middle of Poupart's ligament. The incision is almost the same as that for ligature of the right external iliac artery by Abernethy's incision. It must not approach any nearer the spine of the pubes, lest the round ligament or the deep epigastric artery be wounded. The superficial epigastric is necessarily divided, and must be secured at once. The skin, superficial and deep fascia, the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis muscles are divided, and the fascia transversalis exposed. Secure all bleeding points, and then open this fascia. Next separate the peritoneum from the transversalis and iliac fascia, and direct an assistant to keep the peritoneal sac, witli the intestines, well out of the way, for the rest of the operation, by means of a Avarni, soft, aseptic cloth. Another assistant now passes a rigid catheter into the bladder, and holds it against the posterior wall of the bladder, or the anterior wall of the vagina. A blunt, bulbous instrument of some size is next passed up the vagina, and the vagina pushed by it above the ilio-pectineal line; on this an incision is made by Paquelin's cautery, heated to a red-heat only, as far below the uterus as possible, to avoid the large venous plexus at its upper part, and parallel with the ilio-pectineal line. Through the opening thus made the catheter is felt in the bladder, and then the vagina is torn through as far forwards and backwards519 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. as may bo done with safety. The catheter is now withdrawn, and the uterus is turned to the left, the cervix lifted into the incision by the fingers, the membranes ruptured, and the child extracted. Risks of this Operation. — (1) "Wound of the deep epigastric at tlie inner end of the incision, (2) opening into the pouch of Douglas, (3) wound of the bladder, and (4) wound of the ureter. Before concluding the operation, the bladder should be injected with milk to make sure that it has not been wounded. One of the difficulties of the operation is ha?morrhage from the vaginal walls, but by the use of Paquelin's cautery this risk is much diminished. The Arteries are branches from the hypogastric, the inferior vesical, the internal pudic, and the ha?morrhoidal. The Veins form a plexiis round the whole vagina, but are specially marked at its upper and lower ends. SHORTENING THE ROUND LIGAMENTS. (Alexander-Adams's Operation.) This is an operation advised for the relief or cure of prolapsus uteri; by shortening the ligaments, it is said, the displaceable segment is drawn up and fixed. The bowels and bladder are emptied, the patient placed on the table, chloroformed, and the pubes shaved. An incision is made upwards and outwards from the pubic spine, two inches in length, in the line of the inguinal canal. The incision divides skin and fascia, and opens into the external abdominal ring. Tlie end of the ligament is then grasped and pulled out gently as far as possible, and fixed in its new position by stitches. The other side is treated in an exactly similar manner. I have tried this operation on the dead body, and was specially impressed by two facts—(1) The difficulty in certainly finding the round ligaments, and (2) the still greater difliculty of appreciably shortening them Avhen found. The ligaments are not like pieces of string drawn through tubes, but are firmly adherent throughout their wliole extent, first to the sides of the inguinal canal, and then to tlie pelvic cellular tissue, so that it is next to impossible to shorten them in such a way as at all likely to benefit a prolapsed uterus.Applied Anatomy; 520 PORRO'S OPERATION. This is a modification of the old Ctesarian Section, the difference being tliat the uterus and its appendages are removed, after the child is extracted. Lawson Tait calls it " amputation of the pregnant uterus." Its special advantages, as compared with the older operation, are-—(1) It lessens the risk of ha3morrhage. (2) It avoids the risk of effusion into the abdominal cavity; instead of leaving the incised uterus, with the wound probably gaping, with all the attendant risks of septic peritonitis, it is fixed externally in such a way that it can be readily dressed. (3) The Surgeon can choose the period for the performance of the operation, because, as the uterus is removed, it is not necessary to wait till uterine contrac- tions have commenced, as in the old Cfesarian Section. For this reason the operator can make his own arrangements, and have skilled assistance at a definite hour. (4) It saves the woman from the risk of again becoming pregnant. It is required in the same class of cases as the older operation. The best time to perform the operation is when the uterus is fully developed, and some days before labour sets in; at this period there is less risk to the bladder than if one waited till the labour had begun, as the bladder, during labour, is an abdominal organ, and, therefore, more apt to be injured, and the incision has to be made higher up. Further, the operator is not troubled by the contractions of the uterus, and its Avail is less vascular. Lawson Tait thus performs the operation—" Jfo special instru- ments are required—nothing but a knife, some artery forceps, a piece of rubber drainage tube, without perforations, two or three knitting needles, and a little perchloride of iron." " My method of operating is to make an incision through the middle line large enough to admit my hand, and then I pass a piece of rubber drainage tube (without any holes in it) as a loop over the fundus uteri, and bring it down so as to encircle the cervix, taking care that it does not include a loop of intestine. I then make a single hitch and draw it tight round the cervix, so as to completely stop the circulation. I give the wids of the tubeSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 521 to an assistant, who keeps them well on the strain, so as to prevent the loose knot from slipping, the reason of this being that, should there be any bleeding, and any necessity for further constriction, I could secure this in a moment, without undoing any knot, and the simplicity of this method greatlj'^ commends it. I then make a small opening in the uterus, and enlarge it by tearing with my two forefingers, seize the child by a foot, and remove it. I then remove the placenta, and by that time the uterus has completely contracted, and is easily drawn through the wound in the abdo- minal wall. The constricting tv;be will now probably require to be tightened, and the second hitch of the knot may be put on at the same time, and the work is practically done. Stufl' a few sponges into the wound to keep the cavity clear of blood, and pass the knitting needles through the flattened tube and through the cervix, and in this simple way a clamp of the inost efficient kind is at once made. The uterus is removed about three-quarters of an inch above the rubber tube. The usual stitches are put in, the wound closed round the stump, which, of course, is brought to the lower part of the opening, and then the stump is dressed with perchloride of iron in the usual way." The Chief Steps of this operation, then, are:— 1. Making the abdominal incision. 2. To open the uterus. 3. To extract the child. 4. To draw the emptied uterus out of the abdomen. 5. To transfix and ligature the uterus, just below the os internum, by Koeberle's >^erri'-im)id, or you may use Keith's or Tait's clamp. If the elastic ligature is used, it must be passed after making the abdominal incision. G. Next amputate tlie uterus, with tlie ovaries and tubes, about three-quarters of an iiicli above tlie ligature, or 7. Fix the stump at the lower angle of the abdominal wound, and dress with perchloride of iron. 8. Close the a})dominal wound around tlie stumj) in tlie usual way.522 Applied Anatomy: "Sanger's Operation" is Caesarian Section, witli removal of a Avedge-shaped portion of the uterine wall on eacli side of the incision. The peritoneum is stripped aside, and the wedge-shaped mass cut out, the apex of the wedge being towards the uterine cavity. In this way two flaps of peritoneum are left, one on each side of the original incision, and when the wound is closed the peritoneal flaps are tucked in, just as in Lembert's suture of the intestine, and stitched together. This ensures rapid union between the cut surfaces. " MLiller's Ablation" is an operation performed ia some cases of uterine fibroids; in this operation the abdomen is opened, the tumour, and the uterus containing a non-viable foetus, removed. There is no question here of the life of the child, the maternal complications being so grave as to preclude the pregnancy going to term. " IVIyomotomy " is abdominal section, and removal of fibroids by ligature and closure of the incision, in the hope that pregnancy may go on to term. This operation should only be performed —(1) "When the fibroid is attached in an accessible situation; and (2) when its presence is causing either intolerable pain, or discomfort from distension. It was first performed by Knowslet Thornton in 1879,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 523 CHAPTER XLVI. ATTACHMENT OF MUSCLES. ORIGIN, INSERTION, AND NERVOUS SUPPLY OF THE MORE IMPORTANT MUSCLES MENTIONED IN THE PRECEDING PAGES. HEAD AND NECK. 1. Platysma Myoides.—Arhes from tlie clavicle and acromion, and from the fascia covering the upper jjart of the deltoid, pectoral, and trapezius muscles; the fibres pass upwards and inwards, and are inserted into the lower jaw, angle of the mouth, and cellular tissue of the face, interlacing with many of the facial muscles. The muscle lies immediately beneath the skin, and therefore above the deep fascia. The external and anterior jugular veins, an.d the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, lie just beneath it. Nerves.—The facial and superficial branches of the cervical plexus. The special use of the platysma is probably to assist the venous return from the head and neck. It will be observed that the muscle follows the outline of the neck, so that its points of attachment are above the level of its muscular belly. When, therefore, the muscle contracts, its centre part rises up, like the string of a bow, and so relieves the external and anterior jugulars from pressure, raising up the skin and superficial fascia. 2. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid.—Arises from the upper and anterior part of the sternum, and posterior surface of the inner third of the clavicle, and is inserted across the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and the outer half of the superior curved line of occipital bone. Nerves.—Spinal accessory and branches from the cervical plexus. In order to find out the relation of this muscle to tumours of the neck, the patient should lie on his back, and then raise theApplied Anatomy: 524 head. This at once puts the muscle in action, and we then see whether the tumour is over or under it. Another method is to make the patient turn his head forcibly to the opposite side, while the Surgeon pushes his chin in a contrary direction. Beneath the upper third of this muscle we find Hutchinson's " sub-niastoid potato tumour." 3. Sterno-Hyoid.-—Arises from the back of the sternum, first costal cartilage, and clavicle, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. Nerve.—Descendens noui. 4. Sterno-Thyroid.—Arises from the back of the fii-st piece of the sternum, and is inserted into an oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage. Nerve.—Descendens noni. 5. Omo-Hyoid.—Arises from the upper border of the scapula, close to and on the transverse ligament, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. Nerve.—Descendens noni. This muscle consists of two bellies, united by a central tendon; the bellies, it will be remembered, take part in the subdivision of the anterior and posterior triangles of the neck. In use it probably resembles the platysma, assisting the venous return from the deep veins of the neck, just as the platysma assists the venous return from the superjicial veins. For this reason it is divided into two bellies, with a tendon between; the posterior belly passes over the deep veins in the posterior triangle, while the anterior passes over the deep veins in the anterior triangle—notably the internal jugular. When either belly contracts, it shortens and tends to rise up off the deeper parts, and takes the deep cervical fascia with it; the posterior belly contracts from the scapula to the central tendon, while the anterior contracts from the central tendon to the hyoid bone. If there were no central tendon, and were the muscle to contract as a whole, it would press upon the deep veins and retard the venous return, instead of assisting it. But, with the two bellies, when it contracts, the deep cei'vical fascia is raised up and the pressure upon the veins relieved. 6. ThyPO-Hyoid.—Arises from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. Nerve.—Special branch from ninth (hypo-glossal). 7. Masseter.—Arises from the zygomatic arcli and nialar bono, and is inserted into the angle and ramus of lower jaw.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 525 8. Temporal.—Arises from tlie temporal fossa, and is inserted into the apex and inner surface of the coronoid process. 9. Internal Pterygoid. — Arises from the pterygoid fossa, especially the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and is inserted into the an"le and inner surface of ramus. 10. External Pterygoid.—Arises from the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid and the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate; inserted in front of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. Nerves.— The above four muscles are supplied by the third division of the fifth cranial nerve. 11. Digastric.—^n'se*'from the groove in the mastoid process, perforates the stylo-hyoid, and is attached to the body of the hyoid bone by a central tendon; inserted, into the under surface of the lower jaw close to the symphysis. Nerves.—Posterior belly, by the facial; the anterior, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental (fifth). 12. Scalenus Anticus.—Arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrte; inserted into the tubercle on the inner margin of the first rib, between the grooves for the subclavian artery and vein. 13. Scalenus Medius. — Arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebra except the first; inserted into the upper surface of the first rib behind the groove for the subclavian artery. It. Scalenus Posticus. — Arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower cervical vertebrte; inserted into the outer surface of the second rib. Nerves.—The scalcni are supplied by supra-clavicular twigs of the brachial plexus. 15. Trapezius.—Arises from the external occipital protuberance, inner third of superior curved line, ligamentum nucha?, the spinous I)rocesses of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, and the supra-spinous ligament; inserted into the posterior border of the outer third of the clavicle, inner border of acromion, and upi)cr lip of tlic spine of the scapula. Nerves.—The spinal accessory and deep branches of the cervical plexus. 16. Latissimus Dorsi. — Arises from the spinous processes of llic loAvcr six dorsal vcrlcbric, tlic i)o.stcrior layer of the lumbar526 Applied Anatomy: aponeurosis, and through tliis to the lumbar and sacral spines, the outer lip of the iliac crest, the last three ribs, interdigitating with the external oblique, and sometimes from the lower angle of the scapula; inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Nerve.—The long subscapular. 17. Levator Anguli Sqapulae. — Arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae; inserted into the j)osterior border of the scapula above the spine. Nerves.—Two or three deep branches of the cervical plexus, and a branch from the nerve to the rhomboids (brachial plexus). 18. Rhomboideus Minor.—Arises from the ligamentum nucha' and spinous processes of the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra ; inserted into the posterior border of the scapula opposite the root of the spine. 19. Rhomboideus IVlajor.—4r/s(is from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebras; inserted into the posterior border of the scapula below the spine. Nerves. — Both minor and major are supplied by a special supra-clavicular branch of the brachial plexus. 20. Tlie Superior Constrictor.—Arises from the lower third of the internal pterygoid plate, from the hamular process, from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and from the lower jaw; it is inserted into the median raphe behind. 21. Tlie iVIiddle Constrictor.—Arises from the greater and lesser cornua of the hyoid bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament; it is inserted into the median raphe. 22. Tlie Inferior Constrictor.—Arises from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage and from the side of the cricoid cartilage; it is inserted into the median raphe. The three constrictors overlap from below llp^vards, the inferior overlapping the middle, and the middle overlapping the superior. Between the middle and the superior we find (1) the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, (2) the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and (3) the stylo-hyoid ligament. Between the middle and tlie inferior we find (1) the superior laryngeal artery, (2) the internal brancli of the superior laryngeal nerve, and (3) the external branch of the same nerve. Passing below the inferior we find (1) the recurrent527 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. laryngeal nerve, and (2) the inferior laryngeal branch of the thyroid artery. Between the base of the skull and the superior constrictor there is a semi-lunar interval, known as the " space of Morgagni." It is filled up by the specially strong submucous coat of the mucous membrane of the pharynx; two muscles are seen in this space—the levator palati and the tensor palati, and between them is situated the orifice of the Eustachian tube—and two arteries passing into the pharynx—a branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery, and another from the inferior palatine. 23. Rectus Capitis Anticus IVlajor.—Arises from the anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra; (same origin, therefore, as the scalenus anticus), and is inserted into the under surface of the basilar process, close to the median line. (For the other recti and obliques, see vol. ii., page 230.) 24. Longus Colli.—This muscle consists of two oblique jDor- tions, and one vertical. (1) The inferior oblique part arises from the bodies of the first and second dorsal vertebraj, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical. (2) The superior oblique part arises from the anterior tubercles of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. (3) The vertical portion arises from the bodies of the three lower cervical and the three upper dorsal vertebraj, and is inseiied into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical. At the lower part of the neck the vertebral artery lies between this muscle and the scalenus anticus. 25. Splenius.—Arises from the lower half of the ligameutum nuchse, the spine of the seventh cervical and the ujjper six dorsal vertebraj. hisertion—Splenius capitis, across the mastoid process and the outer third of the superior curved line; the splenius colli has the same insertion as the urigin of the levator uiiguli scapulte —the posterior tubercles of the upper four cervical vertebrae. 26. Com plexus.—Arises from the transverse processes of the u[)per six dorsal vertebraj and articular processes of the lower cer- vical, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the superior and middle curved lines. This muscle has a tendinous intersec- tion about its middle, and is pierced by the great occipital nerve (- the internal branch of the posterior primary division of theApplied Anatomy: 528 second cervical lierVe), and also by the posterior division of tlie third cervical nerve. Its most internal part is often named the Biventer cervicis, as it consists of two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon. Between this muscle and the underlying semi-spinalis colli, we find the profunda cervicis artery anas- tomosing with the j)rinceps cervicis, and the vertebral; also the posterior branches of the cervical jjlexus of nerves. It further forms the immediate roof of the sub-occipital triangle (see vol, ii., page 230). CHEST. 27. External Intercostals.—Eleven in number on each side; they are placed between adjacent ribs, and extend from the tubercles of the ribs to the point of union of the rib with its cartilage. From this point to the sternum, a membrane extends, called the anterior intercostal membrane. The fibres pass down- wards and forwards. 28. Internal Intercostals.—Equal in number to the anterior, but the fibres of which are directed obliquely downwards and backwards; they extend from the angles of the ribs to the edge of the sternum. The gap thus left behind is completed by the posterior intercostal membrane. The intercostal nerves lie be- tween the two muscular layers, as far as the mid-axillary line; but at this point they pierce the internal intercostal muscle very obliquely, and opposite the cartilages they are placed between the internal muscle anteriorly, and the pleura and triangularis sterni muscle posteriorly. The internal mammary artery is also in front of these nerves. The intercostal arteries lie between the muscles practically all the way round. In each space one artery comes forwards, while two pass backwards. Pa><fing forwards, in the upper tM'o spaces, the vessels come from the superior intercostal artery; in the lower nine, from the aorta. Passing haclcwanU, in the upper seven spaces, the vessels are derived from the internal mammary artery; in tlie lower four, from the musculo-phrenic. As far as the mid-axillary line, the single vessel lies \uidcr cover of the lower edge of the rib, but at this point each divides into two twigs, which pass forwards along each edge of the space and ana.stoniose with the corresponding anterior intercostals.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 529 29. The Triangularis Sterni Muscle.—Arm's from the inner surface of the en.siform cartilage and lower part of the sternuru, and from the cartilages of the last three or four true ribs, and is iui^erti'd into the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, and fifth riljs. Lying in front of this muscle, we find the internal mammary arteries and the intercostal nerves; while its posterior surface is partially covered by the pleurto, and part of it bounds the anterior mediastinum. ABDOMEN. 30. External Oblique.—ArUes from the outer surfaces of the lower eight ribs by eight digitations—the upper five interdigitate with the serratus magnus, the lower three witli the latissimus dnrsi; inserted into anterior half of the outer lip of the iliac crest, Poupart's ligament, Gimbernat'« ligament, triangular fascia, front of pubes, and the whole length of the liiiea alba. 31. Internal Oblique.—Arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, anterior two thirds of the middle lip of the iliac crest, and from the lumbar aponeurosis; inserted, the lower fibres join with the lower fibres of the transversalis to form the conjoined tendon, which is inserted into the crest of the pubes and the ilio- pectineal line: also into lower border of the cartilages of the four lower ribs, and the linea alba. 32. Transversalis.—Arises from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, anterior two thirds of the inner lip of the iliac crest, outer surfaces of the cartilages of the loAver six ribs, and by three lamella;—from the tips of the spinous i^rocesses of the lumbar vertebne, the tips of the transverse processes, and from the bodies of the vertebrtc at the roots of the transverse processes, forming the fascia tumhorum; insertion into linea allja, pubic crest, and ilio-pectineal line (conjoined tendon). 33. Quadratus Lumborum.—Arises from the ilio-lumbar liga- ment and iliac crest; inserted into the inner lialf of the last rib and into the tips of tlic transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertcbric. Nerves.—The above four muscles are supplied by the lower six intercostal, the last dorsal, the ilio-hypogastric, and the ilio-inguiual nerves. ''2h530 Applied Anatomy: 34. Psoas Magnus.—Arises from the front of the transverse processes of the lumljar vertebras, from the inter-vertebral discs, and from the tendinous arches bridging across the four lumbar arteries; inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur. Nerves.—From lumbar plexus. The action of this muscle is to flex the thigh and rotate it outwards, resembling in this respect the biceps muscle of the upper extremity. 35. Iliacus.—Arises from the iliac fossa, ilio-lumbar ligament, base of sacrum, and capsule of the hip joint; inserted along with the psoas magnus. Nerve.—The anterior crural. The psoas and iliacus muscles give that peculiar heave of the leg and foot observed in adults, where the entire lower limb has been paralysed in infancy (infantile paralysis). 36. Transversus Perinei.—Arises from the inner aspect of the ascending ramus of the ischium, and blends with its fellow of the oijposite side in the central point of the perineum. 37. Accelerator Urinae or Bulbo-Cavernosus. — This muscle takes origin from the central point of the perineum, and from the septum between the muscles of the two sides, and is inserted— the posterior fibres are attached to the superficial aspect of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament; the middle envelop the corpus spongiosum, and blend with the muscle of the opposite side on its upper surface; while the anterior pass along the sides of the corpora cavernosa, and are inserted into an aponeurosis on the dorsum of the jjenis. 38. Erector Penis or Ischio - Cavernosus.—This muscle lies upon the crus penis; it arises from the inner aspect of the tuber iscliii, and is inserted by an aponeurosis into the anterior i:)ortion of the crus. 39. Compressor or Constrictor Urethras.—It arises from tlic pubic arch, close to its junction Avith the ramus of the ischium. It passes above and below the urethra, and blends with its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. The part enveloping tlie urethra is sometimes called Guthrie's muscle (the compressor uretJtrie proper). A second part is Icnown as AA^'ilson's muscle, or the levator uretlmv, and consists of two small slips passing from the back of the pubis, and is inserted into the central point of tlic perineum; it is supposed to sling up the urethra. A third531 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. part is known as the deep transverse muscle, and extends to the central point of the perineum. The above four muscles are suijplied by the pudic nerve. 40. Levator Ani.—Arises from the posterior surface of the pubis in front, behind from the spine of the ischium, and between these points from the "white line" of the pelvic fascia. From these points it passes downwards and inwards towards the middle line of the pelvic floor, and is inserted into the tip of the cocc}'x —the median raphe in front of that point, the sides of the lower part of the rectum, being connected with the fibres of the external sphincter, and partly with those of the internal, and again beneath the neck of the bladder, prostate, and urethra, blends with its fellow in the median raphe. The anterior portion of the muscle, arising from the pubic bone, is sometimes separated by a cellular interval from the rest of the muscle, and hence is often called the levatur jjrustake. Nerve.—-The fourth sacral. UPPER EXTREMITY. -tl. Pectoralis Major.—Arises from the anterior surface of the inner half of the clavicle, front of the sternum, cartilages of all the true ribs except the first and seventh, and aponeurosis of the external oblique, and is inserted into the outer lip of tlie bicipital groove. Nerves. — The external anterior thoracic nerve, and a branch from the internal. 12. Pectoralis Minor.—Arises from the third, fourth, and lifth ribs, near their junction with the cartilages, and is iiis'-rted into tlie coracoid process, inner border. Nerve.—Tlie internal anterior thoracic. 4-3. SerratUS Magnus.—Arises by nine digitatiojis from tlic nut(!r surfaces of the eight upper ribs, the second liaviiig two digitations, and is iimsiied into tlie anterior surface of the base of the sca[)ula, especially at the upper and lower angles. Nerve.— The posterior thoracic, or nervi; of J>i';r,L. When this muscle is paralysed, the vertebral border of llu^ scapula leaves the ribs and stands out markedly on the surface; it is also somewhat closer to the sinncs of the vertebra^, and the scapula is slightly higher than on the paralysed side. These points become much more marked when the arm is raised. TheApplied Anatomy. 532 ami cannot be raised above a right angle, because the scapula cannot be fixed. The patient is unable to push so strongly on that side, nor can the hand be advanced so far in front of the patient as on the liealtliy side. 44. Deltoid.—Arises from the outer third of the anterior border of the clavicle, outer border of acromion, and lower edge of spine; ■inserted into the middle of the outer surface of the shaft of tbe humerus. Nerve.—Circumflex. A bony deposit may sometimes take place in the tendon of insertion of this muscle in infantry soldiers, from pressure of the butt-end of the rifle, forming a so- called " exercise-bone," a kind of exostosis. 45. Subscapularis.—Arises from the ventral surface of the scajjula, and is inserted into tlie lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Nerves.—The short and middle subscapulars. 46. Supra-Spinatus,—Arisesivoiw the supra-spinous fossa and upper surface of spine, and is inserted into the upper facet on the great tuberosity of humerus. Nerve.—The supra-scapular. 47. Infra-Spinatus.—Arises from the infra-spinous fossa, ridges, and fascia, and is inserted into the middle facet on great Luberosity. Nerve.—The sujira-scapular. 48. Teres Minor.—Arises from the upper two thirds of tlic dorsal surface of the axillary border of the scapula, and is inserted into the lower facet on great tuberosity. Nerve.—Branch of the circumflex, with ganglion. 49. Teres IVIajor,—Arises from the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula; inserted, inner lij) of the bicipital groove of tlje■humerus. Nerve.—The middle subscapular. 50. Biceps Flexor Cubiti.—Arises, tip of coracoid process and apex of glenoid cavity (long head); inserted, back jmrt of the bicipital tubercle of the radius. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous. The chief action of this muscle is to Hex and supinate the fore- arm. Like the deltoid, tlie tendon may ossify, forming a so-called " exercise bone." 51. Coraco-Brachialis.—Arises, tip of the coracoid process; inserted, inner surface of middle of the shaft of the humerus, opposite deltoid. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous. The musculo- cutaneous nerve pierces this muscle, and is often known as the perforans Gusserii,Snrgiarl, Medical, and Operative. 533 52. Brachial is Anticus.—Arises, lower lialf of the inner and outer surfaces of the shaft of the humerus and septa; inserted, "base of coronoid process of the ulna. Nerves,—The museulo-cutaneous and museulo-spiral. 53. Triceps. — Arises, below the glenoid fossa of the scapula, posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, above and below the musculo-s2)iral groove. Nerve.—The musculo-spiral. 54. The following five muscles all arise from the inner condyle of tlie humerus, inter-muscular septa, and fascia of fore- arm, with special origins as follows :— {a) Pronator Radii Teres.—Inner surface of coronoid process; inserted into the middle of tlie outer surface of the shaft of the radius. Nerve.—The median. This muscle, when suddenly brouglit into very active use, as in lawn tennis, is apt to be sprained—" lawn tennis sprain," or " lawn tennis arm." {h) Flexor Carpi Radialis.—No special origin; inserted, front of base of the second and partly of tlie third metacarpal bones. Nerve.—The median. (c) Pal maris Longus.—No special origin; inserted, apex of the palmar fascia. This muscle is often wanting. Nerve.— The median. {d) Flexor Sublimis Digitorum.—Arises, inner edge of coronoid process of the ulna, above the pronator radii teres, and the oblique line in front of the radius; inserted, sides of the second phalanges. Nerve.—The median. (e) Flexor Carpi Ulnaris.—Arises, aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna; inserted, pisiform bone, fifth metacarpal bone, and annular ligament. Nerve.— Tlie ulnar. 55. Flexor Profundus Digitorum. — Arises, upper two thirds of the anterior and inner surfaces of the shaft of the ulna, aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and half tlie interosseous membi'ane; inserted, bases of the third phalanges. Nerves.—The ulnar and anterior interosseous branch of median. 5G. Flexor Longus ?o\\'\0'\?,.—Arises, upper 2)art of the anterior surface of the shaft of the radius, the interosseous membrane, and sometimes from the inner edge of the coronoid process of the534 Applied Anatomy. ulna; inmrted, base of plialaux of thumb. Nerve—The anterior interosseous of the median. 57. Pronator Quadratus.—Arises, lower part of uhia; inserted, lo^ye^ part of radius. Nerve.—The anterior interosseous from the median. 58. Supinator Longus.—^upper two thirds of the ex- ternal condyloid ridge of the humerus; inserted, base of styloid process of radius. Nerve.—The musculo-spiral. This muscle is a feeble supinator, but is a fairly powerful flexor, when the elbow joint is flexed and the arm held between pronation and supination. 59. Extensor Carpi Radiaiis Longior. — ^n'ses, lower third of external condyloid ridge of humerus and septa; inserted, back of base of the second metacarpal. Nerve.—The musculo-spiral. GO. Extensor Carpi Radiaiis Brevior.—Arises, external condyle, lateral ligament, fascia, and septa; inserted, back of base of third metacarpal. 61. Extensor Communis Digitorum.—Arises, external condyle, fascia, and septa; inserted, bases of second and third phalanges of the fingers. 62. Extensor IVlinimi Digiti.—Arises, as last; inserted, joins corresponding tendon of the common extensor. 63. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris.—Arises, external condyle, fascia, and sejata, and aponeurosis attached to the posterior border of the ulna; inserted, base of metacarpal hone of little finger. 64. Supinator B rev is.—Arises, common tendon, orbicular liga- ment of radius, and depression below lesser sigmoid cavity; inserted, posterior and outer surfaces of radius above the oblique line. 65. Extensor Ossis IVIetacarpi Pollicis.—Arises, middle third of posterior surfaces of both radius and ulna and interosseous membrane; inserted, base of first metacarpal bone. 66. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis.—Arises, posterior surface of radius below the previous muscle, and interosseous niembrane; inserted, base of first plialanx of thumb. 67. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis.—Arises, posterior surface of the ulna below the ossis, and interosseous membrane; inserted, base of terminal phalanx of thumb. The extensor muscles of the thumb are often sprained by such movements as535 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. wringing clothes: tliere is swelling along the course of the tendons anil on placing the hand over the part, while the patient moves tlie thumb, a peculiar silky rustling may be felt. It is often known as "washerwoman's Avrist," or "washerwoman's sprain." 68. Extensor Indicis.—^Arises, posterior surface of the ulna below the previous muscle; inserted, joins corresponding tendon of common extensor. The previous eight muscles are supplied by the posterior inter- osseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve. LOWER EXTREMITY. 69. Tensor Fascia Femoris.—Arises, anterior superior spine and crest of ilium behind it; inserted, ilio-tibial band. Nerve.— The superior gluteal. 70. Sartorius.—Arises, anterior superior spine and notch below; inserted, upper part of inner surface of tibia, covering gracilis and semi-tendinous. Nerve.—The middle or internal cutaneous branch of anterior crural. 71. Rectus Femoris.—Arises, anterior inferior spine and above brim of acetabulum ; inserted, upper border of the patella. Nerve. —The anterior crural. Crici<et Thigh. — This is an affection of the rectus femoris that arises during the game of football. It is probably due to a sudden strain put on the muscle, not accustomed to the special action it is called upon suddenly to perform. The patient is apt to think it is due to a blow from the opponent's head, elbow, or knee; he has to stop because of the pain and lameness. In the language of the cricket field, his "pope or poop is taken." The rectus femoris is felt tense and rigid, and stands out; and this condition is brought about suddenh/, and is not due to mere inflammatory effusion, thougli effusion follows the accident, and may spread round the whole thigh. Its exact nature is doubtful; it may be due to a bruise, partial or complete rupture, and mm/ be caused by a blow with the head, elbow, or knee when tlie muscle is in the act of firm contraction. It is more likely, liowever, to be duo to the sudden strain rupturing a few fibres. It is a very common thing, when a tendon or nnisclc ruptures, for the patient to think that he has been struck sudtlenly by some one—as h\Applied Anatomy: 536 rupture of the tendo acliillis, "lawn tennis leg," and in the accident now under consideration. 72. Vastus Extern us.—Arises, anterior border and outer sur- face of great trochanter, outer border of linea aspera and septa; inserted, outer border of patella. Nerve.—The anterior crural. 73. Vastus Intern US.—Arises, whole length of the side of the linea aspera and septa; inserted, inner border of patella. Nerve.— The anterior crural. This muscle forms the promment muscular mass just above the inner side of knee joint; and in cases of knee joint disease, atrophy of this muscle is one of the causes of the great apparent prominence of the internal condyle of femur. 74. Crureus.—Arises, upper three fourths of the anterior sur- face of femur; inserted into upper border of patella. Nerve.— The aiiterior crural. 75. Pectineus.—Arises, ilio-pectineal line and surface in front of it; inserted into the line from lesser trochanter to linea aspera. Nerves.—The obtnrator and anterior crural. 76. Gracilis.—Arises, rami of pubes and ischium; inserted, iipper part of inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, above semi- tendinosus and below sartorius. Nerve.—The obturator. 77. Adductor Longus.—Arises, by a round tendon just below the crest of the pubes; inserted, middle third of inner lip of the linea aspera. Nerve.—The obturator. When this muscle is over- stretched, as in those Avho ride much on horseback, it is called "rider's sprain;" from its constant use in cavalry soldiers, the tendon is sometimes ossified, forming the " ridcv's 'bone." 78. Adductor Brevis.—Arises, front of pubes below the longns; inserted, linea aspera and line leading from the lesser trochanter. Nerve.—The obturator. 79. Adductor Magnus.—Arises, outer side of tuberosity of ischium, and rami of ischium and pubes; inserted, wliole length of linea aspera, crossing obliquely from the outer to the inner side. Nerves.—The obturator and great sciatica. 80. Gluteus Maximus. — Arises, superior curved line, crest above this, side of sacrum and coccyx, great sacro-sciatic ligament; inserted, ilio-tibial band and line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera. Nerves.—The inferior gluteal from the small sciatic, and special branches ft-om the sacral plexus,537 Surgical, JSIedical, and Operative. 81. Gluteus Medius. — Arises, between superior and middle curved lines and iliac crest; inserted, outer surface of the great trochanter. Nerve.—The superior gluteal. 82. Gluteus Minimus.—^rfses, between middle and inferior curved lines; inserted, anterior border of great trochanter. Nerve. —The superior gluteal. 83. Pyriformis. — Arises, front of sacrum, between the first, second, third, and fourth sacral foramina, edge of great sacro-sciatic foramen, and great sacro-sciatic ligament; inserted., posterior part of upper border of the great trochanter. Nerve.—From the sacral plexus. 84. Obturator Intern us.—Arises, inner surface of true pelvis, round about and over the obturator membrane; it is joined by the gemelli, and inserted into the ujjper border of the great trochanter. Nerve.—Special branch from sacral plexus. 85. Quadratus Femoris.—-Arises, outer edge of tuberosity of ischium; inserted, linea qiiadrati on back of the great trochanter. Nerve.—Special branch from sacral plexus. 86. Obturator Extern us. — Arises, outer surface of obturator membrane, and bone round ; inserted, digital fossa of the femur. Nerve.—The obturator. 87. Biceps Flexor Cruris.^—Arises, lower and inner facet on tuberosity of ischium and outer lip of linea aspera; inserted, head of fibula. Nerve.—The great sciatic. 88. Semi-Tendinosus.—Arises, with long head of biceps, from the tuberosity of the ischium ; inserted, upper part of the inner surface of shaft of tibia, below the gracilis and beneath the sartorius. Nerve.—The great sciatic. 89. Semi-Membranous.—Arises, upper and outer facet on tlie tuberosity of the ischium; inserted, posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and blends with the internal semilunar cartilage, fascia of popliteus muscle, and posterior ligament of the knee joint. Nerve.—Tlie great sciatic. In twists or sprains of the knee joint, there is very usually a tender point over the internal semilunar cartilage, probably from rupture of a few of the fibres of this tendon attached to that structure. Tibialis Anticus.—Ariscx, outer tuberosity and upper two thirds of the shaft of the tibia a)id the interosseous membrane;Applied Anatomy: 538 inserted, internal cuneiform and base of first metatarsal. Nerve.— The anterior tibial. 91. Extensor Longus Digitorum.—^me.?, outer tuberosity of tibia, upi^er three fourths of anterior surface of shaft of the fibula, interosseous membrane, and septa; inserted, bases of second and third phalanges of the four outer toes. Nerve.—The anterior tibial. 92. Extensor Proprius Hallucis.—^r/ses, middle three fifths of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula internal to the common extensor; inserted, base of the last phalanx of great toe. Nerve.—^The anterior tibial. 93. Peroneus Tertius.—Arises, lower fourth of anterior sur- face of the shaft of the fibula; inserted, base of the fifth metatarsal. Nerve.—The anterior tibial. 94. Peroneus Longus. —Arises, head and upper half of the antero-external surface of the shaft of the fibula; inserted, outer side of base of the first metatarsal and internal cimeiforni bone. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous branch of external popliteal. 95. Peroneus Brevis.—Arises, middle third of the antero- external surface of the fibula; inserted, base of fifth metatarsal. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous. 96. Gastrocnemius. — Arises, i;pper and back part of the condyles of the femur; inserted, forms part of the tendo achUlis. Nerve.—The internal popliteal. A few fibres of tliis muscle are not uncommonly ruptured, especially in middle-aged gentlemen, during tlie game of lawn tennis; this is known as the " la-\ra tennis leg." The jiatient usually thinks he has received a blow from behind from some one's racket. 97. Soleus.—Arises, back of head and upper third of the posterior surface of the fibula, oblique line and inner border of tlie tibia, and a fibrous arcli between the two bones; inserted, forms part of the tendo achiUis. Nerve.—The internal popliteal. 98. Popliteus.—Arises from a depression on the outer condyle of the femur; inserted, triangular surface on the back of the tibia above the oblicpie line. Nerve.—The internal popliteal. 99. Flexor Longus Hallucis.—Arises, lower two thirds of the posterior surface of tlie shaft of the fibula; inserted, base of last phalanx of great toe. Nerve.—The posterior tibial.539 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 100. Flexor LongUS Digitorum.— Arises, posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, below the oblique line and internal to the tibialis posticus; ini^crted, bases of the last phalanges of the four outer toes. Nerve.—The posterior tibial. 101. Tibialis Posticus.—Arises, posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia below the oblique line and external to the digitorum, interosseous membrane, and upper three fourths of the inner surface of the shaft of the fibula ; inserted, tuberosity of scaphoid. Nerve.—The posterior tibial. 102. Extensor Brevis Digitorum.—Arises from the upper surface of the greater process of the os calcis, from the calcaneo- astragaloid and anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the four inner toes, joining the expansion of the extensor tendons—• except in the great toe, where it is attached to the base of the first phalanx. The fleshy belly of this muscle gives a sensation extremely lilce fluctuation, so much so that it is occasionally opened in the belief that an abscess exists. This muscle is much better developed in races that habitually go bare-footed, and is well seen in many of the older works of sculpture. The muscle is fast disappearing before the advance of the modern followers of St Crispin.540 Applied Anatomy: CHAPTER XLVII. TERMS USED IN EYE SURGERY. Abscission.—^Tlie removal of tlie cornea, with, the front part of tlie sclerotic, as for stajjhyloma, leaving the posterior part of the globe, with the muscular attachments, to form a movable stump for an artificial eye. To prevent the escape of the contents of the eye, pass four or five curved needles through the base, with silk ligatures attached, and. then cut off the protruding parts just in front of the needles; the middle needle is then drawn through, and the suture thus left in position tied; and so for the others. In the old form the sutures were difficult to introduce, the contents apt to escape, and a shrunken, iiseless stump left. Amaurosis.—Complete blindness of an eye, Avithout apparent cause. Amblyopia.—Dullness of sight, short of complete blindness, without apparent physical cause, and with little or no ophthal- moscopic change in the fundus. A very common form is from excessive smoking—tobacco amhlyoina—usuallj^ accompanied by a central colour scotoma, especially for the red and green rays. It is scarcely necessary to point out how important this fact is for all persons who have to do with railway, or naval signals. Ametropia.—Any permanent defect in the refraction of the eye. Anchyloblepharon.—Union of the contiguo\is margins of the eyelids. Anisometropia.—Unequal refraction in the tM'o ej^es. Arcus Senilis.—A condition caused by fatty degeneration of the corneal tissue, just within its margin. It forms two crescents, which by-and-by meet; it begins beneath the upper lid, and is a senile change, no matter M'hat the patient's age may be.541 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Asthenopia.—Weakness of the eyes, or any condition in which the eyes cannot he nsed for long together; in the morning the patient sees well enough, hut the eyes soon feel fatigued. There are two forms—(1) Accommodative—from insufficiency of the ciliary muscle in hypermctropia, as it is constantly overtaxed iji efforts to sec near ohjects. The symptoms are heat, with dis- comfort, or actual pain in the eyes, a desire to close them, and after the patient reads a short time the letters seem to run together. (2) Muscular — from insufficiency of the internal recti in myopia; there is defective power of convergence of tlie optical axes, as the halance hetween the action of the ciliary muscle and the internal recti is disturbed. Astigmatism.—A form of ametropia due usually to irregular curvature of the cornea. It may he refjiilar or irregular. In regular, the meridians of greatest and least refractive power arc always at right angles to each other, and, as a rule, the one of greatest refractive power is vertical, or nearly so; and, of course, the rays passing through this meridian are brought to a focus before the rays passing through the other meridians. In irregular it is not so, as this condition is due to the result of corneal wouuds or ulcers, conical cornea, etc. Regular may be—(1) Simple, Avherc one meridian is natural, but the meridian at right angles is either myopic or hypermetropic. (2) Compouml, where all the meridians are either myojjic or hypermetropic, but one is more so than the other. (3) iI/;'.';efZ, where, for example, the meridian of least refraction is liypermetropic, and the one of greatest refraction is myopic. Blepharitis.—Inflammation, with the formation of pustules on tlic edge of the eyelids, at the points Avhere the eyelashes emerge from the skin, with inflammation of tlie hair follicles, as well as ■(jf the skill.- Blepharospasm.—Spasm of tlic orbicularis palpebrarum, often very markedly present in superficial strumous ulcers of the cornea '(p/i/if/enalar (•oHjiiiteHrilin}. Bupthalmos (Ox-Eye).—A disease probably allied to glaucoma, which comes on in very early life, ail'ects both eyes, and causes great defect of sight. The eye is enlarged in all its diameters, the anterior chamber very dee.p, the cornea usually hazy, and the teusion slightly increa.scd.542 Applied Anatomy: Cataract.—Opacity of the crystalline lens, from any cause; it is due to some change in the composition or structure of the lens fibres. There are many forms, and below the age of thirty-five years are all soft, but above this age are usually hard. (1) The Nuclear, begins in the centre of the lens ; usually in old people, and is hard. (2) The Cortical, begins in the superficial parts, as lines or triangular patches, shooting in towards the centre. It begins at the edge of the lens, and, like the last, is usually found in old people, and is hard. (3) The Lamellar or Zonular—In this the nucleus and the superficial layers of the lens are clear, but there is a zone of opacity between them. It is present at bii-th, and wiU probably remain stationary for life; the subjects of this condition often suffer from infantile convulsions. If the area afi'ected be not verj' large, perform an ividedomij downwards and inwards. The objection to this is the slight permanent deformity. If the afi'ected area nearly involve the whole cornea then remove by "solution,'" letting the remains of the lens out at the lower part. This is one of the most risky forms of cataract operation. Only do one eye at a time, and watch the result very carefully. (4) Pyramidal, or Anterior Polar — A small, weU-defiued spot in the middle of the pupil, at the anterior pole of the lens, due to a previous localised inflammation of the lens capsule and the layers below it; it is stationary, and is the result of perforating ulcer of the cornea, usually from ophthalmia neonatorum. (5) The Posterior Polar—This begins as a thin layer at the middle of the posterior surface of the lens. It is often associated with disease of the interior of the eye, as retinitis pigmentosa, disease of the vitreous, severe choroiditis, etc. In the congenital forms of cataract, nystagmus is often present. For Traumatic Cataract, i-ec Discission. " Cat's Eye."—An appearance noticed in glioma of the retina. The pupil lias a peculiar glistening appearance, or metallic-like lustre. The patient is usually a child, and the mother or nurse notices the peculiar appearance of the pupil, and consults tlie medical attendant about it. It is supposed to resemble a cat's eye. In the earlier stages it may be mistaken for suppurative choroiditis (" .^cwfulous deposit"). In glioma, however, the tension is jjlub; whereas in suppurative choroiditis it is minus.543 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Further, in glioma the growth goes on increasing, destroys the cornea, and projects from the eyeball; but in suppurative choroiditis the eyeball soon begins to shrink. Chalazion.—A little cyst or tumour, formed by obstruction to, or overgrowth of, a meibomian gland. C hem OS is. — Eifusion into the cellular tissue connecting the conjunctiva with the eyeball, raising it in a ridge around the cornea: it accompanies some of the more severe forms of con- junctivitis, as ophthalmia neonatorum. Coredialysis.—A tearing away of the iris from its ciliary attachment, as from a blow or concussion, but without rupture of the hard coats of the eye; this takes place because the iris is not very firmly adherent at its insertion (the ligamentum pedinatum). Corelysis.—An operation for the purpose of freeing the iris from posterior adhesions to the front of the lens capsule, either by means of a spatula-like hook to tear them, or fine cannula scissors to cut them, introduced through an incision at the corneal margin, usually at a point oj^posite to that of the adhesion. Cyclitis.—Inflammation of the ciliary processes; it is rarely found alone, but is usually associated with inflammation of the iris, sclerotic, or cornea. The signs resemble those of iritis, but vision is more impaired than one would exi:)ect for the appear- ances present, and the eye in the ciliary region is very tender to touch. Dacryo-Cystitis.—Inflammation of the lachrymal sac. Discission.'—The method of treating cataract l.)y solution. The inipil is first dilated, then a needle is introduced, and the capsule of the lens lacerated, and the lens substance broken up; it is then gradually absorbed by the action of the aqueous humour. It is also called Ki'mfnni/.''i>i. .Severe blows on the eye may also rupture the lens capsule, when tlie aqueous humour enters and is imbibed by the lens fibres, which swell up, speedily become opatjue, disintegrate, and are finally absorbed: this is called traumatic cutaract. Distichiasis.—Where tlicre seem to be two rows of eyelashes; one is in the normal petition, the other is misdirected and rubs against the globe.544 Applied Anatomy: Ectropion.—Eversiou of the edge of the lid or lids. Emmetropi a.—Normal vision. When the accommodation is relaxed, parallel rays, or rays from distant objects, are focussed on the retina; but divergent rays, or rays from a near object, are focussed behind the retina. Entropion.—Inversion of the border of the eyelids, from any cause, such as organic change in the tissue of the lids or spa.sm of the orbicularis. Exclusion of Pupil.—Where the whole pupillary margin or the entire posterior surface of the iris is adherent to the lens capsule; also called "total posterior nijnechia." Hemeralopia. — "Day-blindness;" occasionally met Avith in persons from the East or West Indies. Hypermetropia.—The "long sight" of young people. Parallel rays, when the accommodation is relaxed, are not focussed on, but fall behind the retina, and therefore to see distant objects the patient must use active accommodation. It is due either to delicieut refractive jjower, or else to sliortness of the antero- posterior axis of the eyeball; hence there is a constant strain of accommodation. It always dates from birth and does not increase afterwards, and often causes convergent squint, from the excess of accommodation required. It is measured by the refractive jDOwer of the strongest concex lens through which he can see distant objects clearly. It may be—(1) Manifest, or that part of accom- modation that the patient can voluntarily relax, but he never relaxes his power of accommodation completely: this is measured by the strongest convex lens through which he can see distant objects clearly. After having noted this, then put atropia into his eye, "when he will now see clearly through a stronger convex lens than before; this is called (2) Latent hypermetropia = that masked by accommodative effort, and Avhich he is unable to sus- pend at will. The manifest and the latent added together give the Total hypermetropia. Hyphgema.—Blood in the lower part of the anterior chamber. Hypopyon.—Pus in the lower part of the anterior chamber; often associated with the superficial spreading septic ulcer of the cornea (" Serpiginous Ulcer"). Irideremia, Congenital.—Congenital absence of the iris.545 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Iridodesis.—A method adopted by Mr Critchett for making an artificial pupil. A loop of iris is drawn out through a. small opening and strangulated by a noose of fine waxed silk ligature; it is difficult to do, but leaves a very neat opening. It is, how- ever, apt to be followed, it may be years after, by inflammation of the iris and ciliary jjrocesses—irido-cyclitis, and even sympathetic ophthalmia of the otlier eye. Iridotomy, or Iritomy. — Another method of operating for artificial pupil, but is limited to cases where the lens is absent. An incision is made through the cornea and sclerotic junction at a point furthest from that part of the eye where the artificial pupil is to be. The iritomy scissors is next introduced closed, and when near the iris it is opened, and the sharp-pointed blade either passed behind the iris or made to perforate it; the iris is then divided by a single snip as nearly as may be across its fibres, which then retract and leave an elliptical opening. It is used after cataract extraction, in cases where the iris has become tightly fixed in the scar tissue, either from iritis or prolapse. Iris, Tremulous (Iridodonesis).—A condition in -which the iris is seen to tremble or shake about with every movement of the eye, having lost its firm posterior support. It is found, therefore, in cases where the lens is displaced, or where the vitreous humour is unusually fluid, as from disease of the choroid, and after cataract extraction. Keratitis.—Inflammation of the cornea; the common form is interstitial syphilitic keratitis, which shows no tendency either to pus formation or to idceration. It is most common between the ages of six and sixteen. Its course is very slow, and it is apt to cause myopia. Leucoma.—A dense, white, opaque spot on the cornea, left after the healing of an ulcer; if the opacity be very faint, it is called nebula. Lippitudo.—A raw irritable condition of the edge of the eye- lids, following the loss of all the eyelashes, as in blepharitis ciliaris. " Live Blood."—Spontaneous twitching, especially of the lower lid, met with in some cases of hypermetropia, when the digestion is out of order. !'f o ^ .vl546 Applied Anatomy: Myosis. — Persistent contraction of the pupil; tliis is found in hypersestliesia of the retina, in cases also where the vessels of the iris are full of blood, in cases of nervous disease where the sympathetic fibres to the iris are paralysed, or where the third is stimiUated, in cerebral concussion, and from the use of drags, as Calabar bean, locally—opium and chloral hydrate, internally. Myopia.—" Short-sightedness." Parallel rays are brought to a focus in front of the retina even when all accommodative efforts are suspended. It is usually due to elongation of the antero- posterior axis of the globe. Distant objects cannot be seen, but near objects can if held close to the eye. The amount is measured by the refractive power of the wealcest concave lens that enables the eye to discern distant objects distinctly—an object twenty feet off. In myopic patients there is a great liability to liquefaction of, and opacities in, the vitreous, cortical cataract, and detachment of the retina. Nyctalopia.—" Night blindness," or want of sight in the dusk; vision is good in bright light, but in the dusk require to be led. This condition is found in retinitis pigmentosa, and sometimes in syphilitic choroido-retinitis. Nystagmus.-—-Involuntary oscillating movement of the eyes: associated with congenital defects of sight, or defects produced soon after birth—e.g., by ophthahnia neonatorum. It is also found in coal-miners, and in some forms of cord disease. " Occlusion " of Pupil.—When the orifice is filled up by inflam- matory products, which organise into a thin membrane. Onyx.—Pus between the lamelloi of the cornea, which usually sinks to the lowest part. Ophthalmia.—All forms of inflammation of the conjunctiva are included in this term. Ophthalmoplegia.—Paralysis of the muscles of the eyeball. (1) Ophthalmoplegia externa = paralysis of all the e.vfernal muscles of the eye, met with sometimes in locomotor ataxy, syphilis, diphtheria, cold, and alcohol. (2) Ophthalmoplegia interna = l)aralysis of the three internal muscles of tlie globe — ciliary muscle, dilator, and sphincter pupilla3. When the ciliari/ muscle alone is aflected, it is called Ci/cloplegia; when the nnisclos of tlie iris alone, Iridoj^hgia.Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 547 Panophthalmitis. — Purulent inflammation of the interior of the glohe; it usually starts as a septic traumatic cyclitis. Photophobia.—Fear or intolerance of light; very well seen in superficial strumous ulcers of the cornea. Photopsia.—An appearance or sense of light, from internal causes (a subjective sensation). Pinguecula.—A small yellowi-sh fatty-like spot close to the inner or outer edge of the cornea. Presbyopia.—The "long sight" of old people. It is an affection of accommodation, due to weakness of the ciliary muscle, and other alterations in the interior of the eye. Patients thus affected hold objects further from the eye than usual, and try to get into a good light. Pterygium.—A triangular patch of thickened ocular conjunctiva, the apex of which encroaches upon the cornea. Ptosis.—Drooping or falling of the upper eyelid, as from paralysis of the third nerve. Scotoma.—An area of defect or blindness in the visual field. Staphyloma.—A bulging of the sclerotic or cornea in front, of the sclerotic behind, and therefore spoken of as anticus and ijostims. Stye (Hordeolum).—A little boil at the edge of the eyelid, due either to suppurative inflammation of the connective tissue or of one of the meibomian glands. Symblepharon.—Adhesion of the palpebral and ocular surfaces of the conjunctiva, as from burns or scalds, by fire or caustics. Synechia.—Adhesion of the iris to the lens capsule or the back of the cornea, either by tags here and there or all the way round; if to the lens capsule, it is called imderior; to the back of the cornea, anterior. Trachoma. — Another name for granular lids or granular ophthalmia. It is probably due to a micro-organism. Trichiasis.—A condition where the eyelashes are misdirected and rub against the globe. "Yellow Gum," the popular name for ojjhtJudmia neonatorum, probably because the pus is yellow, and gums the lids together.Applied Anatomy: 548 CHAPTER XLVIIL ADDENDA. Many of the points in this Chapter have been inadvertently left out in the body of the book. Annandale's Operation for Displaced Semilunar Cartilage.— Instruments req.uired.—A knife, artery forceps, ligatures, dissecting forceps, blunt hooks, sponges, sutures, needles, and dressings. A transverse incision is made, parallel Avith, and just over, the head of the tibia, and the displaced cartilage, on the injured side. The incision extends from near the edge of the ligamentum patellae backwards for about three or four inches. If this does not expose the cartilage properly, it may be supplemented by another incision, at right angles to it, upwards or downwards as the case may require. The various structures are cut through, till the capsule of the joint is exposed; all bleeding vessels are then secured, and the joint opened. The displaced cartilage is next hooked into the wound, by means of a blunt hook, and stitched to the jjeriosteum of the head of the tibia with catgut sutures. The woimd is then closed, and dressed antiseptically. In certain cases, where the cartilage seems affected with fatty degeneration, Professor Annan- DAiwE removes it altogether. This does not seem to aftect the usefulness of the joint in the very least (see vol. i., page 405). Annandale's Operation for Displaced Cartilage of the Lower Jaw.—A .slightly-curved incision, three-quarters of an inch long, is made over the posterior edge of the lateral ligament, and carried down to the capsule. All bleeding vessels are then tied, the capsule opened, and the cartilage seized and drawn into position. It is then stitched to the periosteum and other tissues, at the outer margin, by catgut sutures (see vol. ii., page 41).549 Surgical, J\IcdicaI, and Operative. Ogston's Operation for Fiat-Foot.—In ccases of flat-foot, the treatment will necessarily varj^ with circumstances. 1. In the acute and painful stage, absolute rest is necessary, till all the acute symptoms and pain subside. It is worse than useless to attempt to do anything else in this stage. 2. When the acute symptoms have subsided, and provided " stiff big-toe '' be absent, then the proper treatment is calisthenics for the feet. The patient must practise rising on tip-toe several times a-day, and then attempt to waUv on tip-toe—in short, he must endeavour to execute the various moA^ements of an accomplished ballet-dancer. 3. In cases where the patient has much standing during the day, he should be provided with an artificial arch, to give him support, while lie is standing. In the evening he shoTild remove the arch, and practise foot calisthenics. It should be remembered that an artificial arch, while it may preA'ent the condition becoming worse, will not cure the deformity; besides, in many cases, the patient is unable to wear it. 4. In those cases where "stiff big-toe" is present, it M'ill be impossible to adopt calisthenic treatment. I'or this class of cases, Professor Ciiiene's plan should be adopted—viz., to insert a rigid, slightly-curved steel plate into the sole of the boot. This prevents all pressure on the tip of the big-toe, and, consequently, all move- ment at the painful joint—the metatarso-phalangcal of the big-toe. In certain cases, Oojston's operation may be adopted. 0. Ogston's Operation.—An incision is made along the inner side of the foot, into tlie mediotarsal joint, the soft parts shelled off the bones, so as to expose the articulation sufficiently, and then, by means of an ordinary chi.sel, the head of the astragalus and the back of the scaphoid are denuded of their cartilage, so as to be adapted for osseous ankylosis. In old cases of the deformity, the head of the astragalus, grown out of shape, has to be rounded oil", so tliat it can be restored to its proper position before the arch of the foot can be replaced in its original shape. An assistant holds the arch in the right position, and then two pegs of carefully disinfected ivoiy, three inches long, are hammered into two holes drilled through the scaphoid and astragalus. This fixes the arch, and when the spare ends of the pegs have been nipped off, and550 Applied Anatomy: the wouud sutured, the joint heals, by bony ankylosis, under a plaster-of-Paris bandage (see vol. i., page 407). Watson Cheyne's Operation for Bunion.—After the parts have been thoroughly disinfected, a longitudinal incision is made over the inner and dorsal surface of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, the soft parts being divided down to the bone. The periosteum on the inner side is then stripped away, and a vertical slice of the thickened bone sawn off, a small portion of the articular surface being also removed. A portion of the subcutaneous tissues on the inner side of the joint may also be removed. The toe is then brought straight and pressed upwards. The wound is next stitched, antiseptic dressings applied, and two splints fixed, one on the inner side to keep the toe inwards, and one beneath to keep it upwards. After the wound has healed the foot may be put up in some permanent dressing—e.r/., silicate bandages. Mr Cheyne states that the essential cause of the j'svsistence of a bunion is the thickening of the end of the metatarsal bone, and this thickened mass must be removed before a cure can be attempted. The toe is displaced in a two-fold direction—everted and depressed, so that it must be pressed upwards as well as drawn inwards. The original cause of bunion is badly-fitting boots—narrow-toed and tapering along the inner border of the foot. The big toe is pressed outwards, and the bursa that naturally exists over the ball of the great toe is irritated and becomes inflamed. If the patient will submit to wear easily-fitting, though probably ugly, boots no operation need be performed at all (see vol. ii., page 194). Bursas.—In addition to the usually recognised bursaj about the hands and feet, the late Professor Syme pointed out that there was a "series of superficial bursa; just under the integument over all the joints of the fingers and toes. Even the so-called adventitious burste, met with over the external malleolus in tailors (" Tailors' bursa"), and on the outer border of the foot in cases of aggravated talipes equino-varus, he stated, were only enlargements of previously existing bursas. I\1aclaren's Operation for Varicose Veins. —Dr Maolaren believes that varicose veins are, to a great extent, due to laxity of the integumentary structures, and that, if this does not pre- dispose to them, it certainly keeps up the condition. As a means,Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 5-51 therefore, of radical cure, in cases of varicose veins of the leg, he removes an elliptical portion of skin from the calf. Tliis braces lip and supports the varicose veins, like a well-fitting, natural elastic stocking (see vol. ii., page 173). Hare's Angle. — Professor Hark states that the fissure of lloLANDo forms an angle of 'sixty-seven degrees with the sagittal suture. This angle can very easily be found by means of an ordinary half sheet of paper, or the comer of a newspaper for that matter—in short, any piece of soft material cut at a right angle. The right angle is first bisected by carefully doubling the paper over. After this the paper is again folded so as to bisect the angles of forty-five degrees first formed. The right angle is thus divided into four equal angles of 22*5 degrees each. Three of these are added together, which gives an angle of 67 "5 degrees, which is near enough for all practical purposes. The edge of the paper is then laid upon the sagittal suture, so that the angle corresponds with the jwint that indicates the ujjper end of the fissure of Kolando—viz., half-an-inch behind a point midway between the root of the nose and the external occipital pro- tuberance. The fissure passes downwards and forwards for three and three-quarter inches (Fig. 235; sec also vol. ii., page 78).Applied Anatomy: 552 "Wilde's Line."—This is a line drawn from the apex of the mastoid process upwards at right angles to the sagittal suture. It is about half or three-quarters of an inch from the auricle. It is in this line that " Wilde's incision" is made, in cases where it is necessary to cut down to the mastoid process in ear disease, as it is behind the posterior auricular artery. It is also a very useful guide in the operation of trephining the mastoid antrum. The trephine or gimlet is entered in this line, on a level with the upper border of the external auditory meatus, and then worked in a direction parallel with the meatus, i.e., inwards, forwards, and slightly upwards. Mr Treves introduces a pencil into the meatus, and then keeps the shaft of the gimlet parallel with that. A gimlet is much better than a trejjhine, as one has more command over it. The antrum varies in size from a pea to a small bean. In Fig. 119 (see vol. i., page 576), it is three-sixteenths of an inch in height, and five-eighths of an inch in length. Its Outer Bony Wall.—The petro-squamous suture closes during the first year of extra-uterine life. Its existence during that period, however, is no doubt a very frequent cause of death from ear disease in the case of children. In the foetus there is hardly any mastoid process, and the outer wall of the antrum is verj'' thin. About this period the mastoid process begins to grow in a peculiar manner. There is a continuous formation of new bone from the periosteum, which is laid down layer after layer on tlie surface of the old, so that the external and inferior walls of the antrum become gradually thicker and thicker. In a new-born child, the outer wall is only 1 or 2 mm. thick ; by the age of five years it is about 6 mm., while at nine or ten years of age, it is about 1 cm. deep (Symixgton). In the adult, it is about To cm. deep, or three-fifths of an inch. The new bone is at first finelj' can- cellous. About puberty this tissue rrndergoes a process of partial absorption, by which it is converted into a number of communi- cating air cells, Avhich are lined by a delicate mucous membrane. In the adult, the chances of extension of the inflammation to the lateral sinus are much greater than in children. In children there is a thick layer of fine cancellous tissue between the mastoid antrum and the lateral sinus; but this may be converted in the adult into air cells, some of Avhich are only separated by very553 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. thin l)Oiiy scijta from the sinus (Symington). lutra-cniuial com- plications more often follow disease of the middle ear on the right side, because the right lateral sinus is larger than the left, and consequently the bony wall between it and the mastoid cells is thinner than on the left side (Korner). Middle ear disease in early life is a common cause of Deaf-mutism. Mr Hulke has specially pointed out that hemiplegia, coming on with signs of compression many weeks after a head injury, indicates very certainly the exist- ence of a cerebral abscess (see vol. i., page 57-i). In opening an Abscess of the Middle Ear, an incision is made through the lower and posterior part of. the membrane tympani, for reasons already pointed out (see vol. i., page 559). In this connection, observe the size of the tympanic cavity. It measures about five lines from before Ijackwards, three lines in the vertical direction, and between two and three in the transverse—that is, not quite a quarter of an inch. The Avidth of the tympanum varies from one-twelfth to one-sixth of an inch (Quain). It is a little broader behind and above than it is below and in front. Xow, unless the Surgeon be careful, he is apt to introduce the knife too deeply and strike the inner wall, the result being that he punctures or divides the facial nerve, an accident that has actually happened. Cerebral Abscess.—It is only wlicn the abscess is circumscribed that Ave meet Avith the characteristic symptoms (see vol. i., p. 570). Tlie moment the pus bursts its limiting Avail, Avhether into the lirii in substance or into the lateral ventricles, the symptoms entirely change. Instead of low temperature, sIoav pulse, and coma, avc find a high temperature, severe pain, rapid pulse, and delirium; the same symptoms are also observed in pyivmic abscesses—e.g., in rrlcerative endocarditis, Avhich has been mistaken for acute mania. The tension in cerebral abscesses is often so great as to be almost past belief. Mr JIulke says he has seen the pus ejected Avith such violence as not only to bespatter the operator, but to be driven half-Avay across the operating-room. Lymphatic Glands of the Neck.—In speaking on this matter (see vol. ii., p. 131), I ouglit to have pointed out more particularly the glands often found in the middle line of the neck. There is one just below the symphysis nienti, another about the region ofApplied Anatomy: 554 the crico-thyroid membrane, and a third just ahove the episternal notch. Any of these may suppurate, when we will have an abscess in the middle line. Spinal Accessory Nerve. — The sinnal portion of this nerve arises from the lateral tract of the cord, as low down as the sixth cervical nerve. It ascends between the lirjamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and joins the accessory portion. This nerve supplies the steruo-mastoid, and communicates, in the substance of that muscle, with the third cervical nerve. In the occipital portion of the posterior triangle of the neck, it communicates with the second and tliird cervical nerves; and, after passing under the trapezius, it is joined by branches from the tliird, fotirth, and fffh cervical nerves. Cerebral Sinuses.—These are fifteen in all—five single and five paired. The Single Sinuses are:— 1. The Superior Longitudinal, which runs along the upper border of the falx major, from the crista galli to the internal occipital protuberance. It commences in a small vein, which enters the skull from the nose through the foramen caicum. On section, it is triangular, with the base of the triangle upwards. Its tributary veins oj^en into it at acute angles from behind forwards—i.e., contrary to the current of blood in the sinus itself. "Within the sinus are small tendinous cords—cliord;\3 Willisii. 2. The Inferior Longitudinal, wliich runs along the lower border of the falx major, as far as the tentorium cerebelli, and there opens into the straight sinus. 3. The Straight Sinus runs along the junction of the falx major with the tentorium. It is formed by the veins of Galen and the inferior longitudinal sinus, and opens into the torcular Ilerophili, thus connecting the two longitudinal sinuses together. The veins of Galen return the blood from the lateral ventricles, the basal ganglia, and the interior of the brain generally. 4. The Circular Sinus surrounds the pituitary body in the sella turcica, and forms a communication between the two cavernous sinuses.Surgical, Medico/, and Operative. 555 5. The Tramverse or Badlar Sinus crosses the basilar process, and forms a communication between the two inferior petrosals. The Paired Sinuses are :— 1. The Cavernous Sinuses (see vol. i., page 519). 2. The Inferior Petrosal Sinuses pass from the cavernoiis sinus and open into the lateral sinus outside the skull, passing through the jugular foramen, in front of the eighth pair of nerves. They groove the contiguous margins of the petrous part of the temporal bone and the occipital bone. 3. TJie Superior Petrosal Sinuses pass from the cavernous sinus along the upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone to the lateral sinus. The petrosal sinuses are apt to be torn in fractures of the petrous portion of the temporal bone—giving rise to the passive form of cerebral haemorrhage, as opposed to the active arterial form. 4. Tlie Occipital Simises are found along the attachment of the falx cerebelli. 5. The Lateral Sinuses are the largest of the cerebral sinuses, and, commencing at the torcular Herophili, take a curved course to the jugular foramen on each side. Each sinus grooves the following bones—occipital, parietal, temporal, and occipital again. The sinuses receive the mastoid veins through the mastoid foramina, and end in the internal jugular veins, practically return- ing the whole of the blood from the brain. Just external to the .jugular foramen, the lateral sinus is joined by the inferior petrosal, this coalescence forming the internal jugular vein. The most important sinuses, from a Surgical point of vieAV, are the cavernous and the lateral. The former, because of abscesses and tumours in the temporo-sphenoidal lobes, causing pressure upon tliem; and the latter, because of the great risk of mastoid disease giving rise to septic thrombosis and pyaemia. Sinuses differ from Veins—(1) Because they are enclosed in sheaths of dura mater, to which they are firmly attached, so that they remain patent when divided; further, they have no muscular coat. (2) They have no valves. (3) The veins open into them in a direction contrary to the flow of the blood within them.556 Applied Aiiatoii/y : Articulations of the Carpal Bones.—The Idoucs of the carpus are eight in number, and are arranged in two rows, thus:— Radius. Scaphoid. Scmihmar. Cuneiform. Pisiform. Trapezium. Trapezoid. Os magnum. Unciform. Fig. 236. Articulation of Carpal Bones. Radius. Articulations.—(Fig. 236). First Row. 1. ^capliuid.—FiA'c bones. Eadius, trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and semilunar. 2. Semiliinar.—Five bones. Eadius, os magnum, uncifoi-m, scaphoid, and cuneiform. 3. Ciineiforiii.—Tliree bones. .Semilunar, pisiform, and unciform. Above, it articulates witli the triangular fibro-cartilagc. -l. Pisiform.—One bone. The cuneiform. Second Row. 1. Trapezium.—Four bones. Scaphoid, trapezoid, and the first and second metacarpal bones.Surgical, Medical, and Operative, 557 2. Trapezoid.—Four bones. Scaplioid, second metacarpal, trapezium, and os magnum. 3. Os Magnum.—Seven bones. Scaplioid, semilunar, second, tliird, and fourth metacarjpals, trapezoid, and unciform. 4. Unciform.—Five bones. Semilunar, fourth, and fifth metacarpals, cuneiform, and OS magnum. Articulations of the Tarsal Bones.—The bones of the tarsus are seven in number :— Articulations. 1. Os Calcis.—Two bones. Astragalus and cuboid. 2. Cuboid.—Four bones. Os calcis, external cuneiform, and the fourth and fifth metatarsals. Sometimes it touches the scaphoid. 3. Astragalus.—Four bones. Tibia, fibula, os calcis, and scajihoid. 4. Scaphoid.—Four bones. Astragalus and the three cuneiform bones. Sometimes it touches the cuboid. 5. Internal Cuneiform.—Four bones. Scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and the first and second metatarsals. G. Middle Cuneiform.—Four bones. Scaphoid, the internal and external cuneiform, and the second metatarsal, 7. External Cuneiform.—Six bones. Scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. It will be observed, that the tarsal bones, on an average, articulate with four l)ones each, but that the first (the os calcis) articulates with two less than the average, while the last (the external cuneiform) articulates with two more than the average.558 Applied Anatomy: Salivary Fistula. — Deguise's Operation. — A.s already stated (see vol. ii., page 29), in order to cure this condition, we must make it easy for the saliva to go the right way; in other words, to make the oi^eniug into the mouth large and free. A silk thread of some length is taken, and a needle attached to each end. One needle is then passed through the fistula, and directed inwards and backwards through the cheek into the mouth, and the end of the thread brought out; the other needle is next to he passed through the fistula in a similar manner, but must he directed inwards and forwards. In this way a wedge-shaped piece of tissue of the inner surface of the cheek is included in the loop of the thread (Fig. 237). Fig. 237. Operation for Salivary Fistula. The two ends are then to be tied tightly inside the mouth, and the knot is allowed to ulcerate through the included tissue into the cavity of the mouth. In this way a free opening is secured into the mouth. The fistula will then usually close spontaneously, but if not, Dr Duncan's operation for fistula may be performed (see vol. ii., page 53). Head in Congenital 8ypliilis.—Iu addition to the points already cnumer ated (see vol. i., p. 535, and vol. ii., p. 85), the following should be noted:—(1) The high and narrow palate—not always559 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. present; (2) tlie forehead is grooved horizontally, just above the eyebrows; (3) a transverse projection above this; {i) the earthy or muddy complexion; (5) the thin, brittle hair; (6) the thick upper lip, due to prolonged rhinitis; (7) the thickened bones of the head, whereby (8) the vertex is flattened, (9) the forehead is rendered prominent, and (10) the occiput widened. Congenital syphilis is also a common cause of deafness. A highly-arched palate is often found in idiots. Operation for the Cure of Artificial Anus.—The Stages of the Operation are :— 1. Destruction of the spur or eperon. 2. Closure of the fistula. The " spur" is formed by the posterior part of the circumference of the two ends of the bowel. Their walls, supported one against another, constitute a sort of valvular partition, which prevents tlie free passage of their contents from the upper to the lower end of the gut (Fig. 238). Fig. 238. Artificial Anus. Jtesentei-y. Gut .—; Skin Surface. Gut. '•Spin-." The Arrow indicates the course of the contents of the Bowel. 1. The "spur" is to be destroyed by Dupuytben's enterotome. Its rapid removal by the knife or scissors, or more slowly by ligature, is apt to open into the peritoneal cavity and set up latal septic peritonitis. To avoid this, Dupuytren uses the enterotome. It is composed of two blades, which can be introduced separately— one into the upper, and the other into the lower end of the bowel. Tlie blades are then joined together, as in the case of the mid- wifery forceps, and firmly pressed together by means of a screw.560 Applied Anatomy: This instrumeut serves a double purpose—(1) It secures adhesion between the adjoining walls of the bowel, and (2) it slowly separates the " spur," which usually falls off about the end of the seventh or eighth day. The "spur" is seized between the teeth of the instrument and gradually compressed, so that it sloughs off from the wall of the bowel. Before this, however, the peritoneal surfaces are firmly adherent, and the peritoneal cavity thus completely shut off from the cavity of the bowel. 2. The next step is to close the fistula. This is to be accomplished, not by paring the edges, but by Duncan's method (see vol. ii., page 53). Lesions in Cortege and Substance of tiie Brain.—Lesions of the cortex reach their maximum gradually, are incomplete, and more or less limited. A monoplegia, advancing progressively towards a hemiplegia, is very significant of a cortical lesion. It is further very often preceded by, or associated with, monospasm or the " early rigidity" of the paralysed limb; tliis is indicative of an irritating, not a destroying lesion. Consciousness is less frequently lost in cortical lesions, and there is often localised pain in the head. Cortical lesions may involve the psychical centres for vision and hearing, inducing " word-blindness" and " word-deafness;" that is to say the patient is unable to translate written symbols into ideas, or understand spoken words. The per- ceiving centres are abolished, although the will power remains. The features of a lesion of the substance (central) of the brain are, roughly speaking, the reverse of the above. Central lesions reach their maximum at once, and are complete, affecting the whole of one side—hemiplegia. It is rarely preceded by, or associated with spasm of the parts affected. The rigidity of the paralysed side is usually "late," not "early"—the symptoms, in fact, pointing to a destroi/ing lesion, rather than an irritating one. Consciousness is usually lost, but there is rarely marked pain in the head. The psychical centres are left intact, though the motor and co-ordinating powers are abolished; the patient knows Avell enough what to say, but is unable to say it. In short, though he is speechless he is not wordless. A slowly advancing haemorrhage on the surface of the brain, e.g., from the middle meningeal artery, will illustrate a cortical lesion; while rupture of the lenticulo-striate artery is anSurgical, Medical, and Operative. 561 example of a central lesion. If, however, the blood for the middle meningeal ;irtcry be poured out very rapidly, then the symptoms will rather resemble a central lesion. If, along with symptoms of concussion, there be convulsive movements, often of a rythmical character, affecting groups of muscles, or more general convulsions, the injury is probably laceration of the surface of the brain. The convulsive movements generally afl'ect the limbs of one side more than the other, and are usually best marked on the side opposite to tliat on which the brain has been injured. In Contusion of the Brain, the patient exhibits great irrita- bility of manner, lies curled up with all his Ijmbs flexed, his eyelids closed, and resents all interference on the part of attendants (=" Cerebral irritation"). There is no heat of head, and the inilse, tliougli weak, is not frequent. There is a marked desire to be "let alone," with muttering, frowning, and grinding of the teeth, if disturbed. In connection with injuries of the head it should be noted that there may occasionally be permanent Loss of Memory of the incidents of a few hours or days preceding the injury (Bell). This may be of considerable medico-legal importance. KND oi' vor.. 11.INDEX.iINDEX. * 2 o AbJoiueii, 21)1 Colloid cancer of, 337 Cutaueous nerves, 266 Protuberance of, 269 Eegions, 261 Surface anatomy of, 261 Tapping the, 335 • • Abdominal belt," 266 Operations, 271, tt sinj. Parietetj, anterior, 263 Lateral, 267 Posterioi', 296 King external, to feel tlie, 311 internal, position of, 342 Viscera, 261 Walls, 263, 267 Abscess, anal, i3y6 Of antrum, 117 Areola, 226 In axillary region, 138 Of breast, iu female, 226 Of bursa patelho, 178 About cervical region, 27 Of cord, 396 Under diaphragm, 270, 279 Dorsal, 5U3 Ear, middle, .'j'jo In frontal siuuHos, 113 Gluteal, 503, 501 Hilton's inetliod of opening, 97,138 In Lip disease, 168 Acetabular, 168 Arthritic, 168 Femoral, 168 Iliac, 50'1 Iscliio-rectal, 394 Lateral pharyngeal, 27 Of liver, 314 Lumbar, 504 Mammary, 226 Parotid, 96 Opening of, 97 Pelvic, 504 Pericecal, 288 Perineal, 398 Perinephritic, 329 Abscess— Perityphlitic, 288 Popliteal space, 174 Post-pbai'yugeal, 28 Prostatic, 447 Psoas, 501 Ketro-pharyngeal, 28 Sacro-iliac, 169 In seal]!, 67 Of spermatic cord, 396 Submammary, 226 Supra-mammary, 226 In temporal fossa, 96 Thecal, 161 Abscission of cornea, 540 Accelerator urinfc (see Muscles) Acromegaly, 95 Acupuncture in sciatica, 162 Addison's disease, 330 Adductor lougus muscle (see Muscles) Adhesiims in hernial sac, 351 yKgopliouy, 214 Air in veins, 228 Air tube (see Larynx and Trachea) Alderman s nerve, 127 Alimentary canal, development of, 290 Allantois, 268 Allarton's operation of median litho- tomy, 418 Amphoric in-eathing, 213 Aniussat's operation for arliticial anus, 296 Anal canal, 482 'J'riaugle, 393 Ulc(n' or lissnre, 482 Aneurism, popliteal, 175 Aiieurismal varix of spleidc vein, 322 Ankle joint, structures at, 191 Synovial meml)ranes of, 192 Annular ligaments of— Ankle, 191 Wrist, 150 Anterior crural nerve, 164 Paralysis of, 1()4 Tibial nerve, 190 Anti-ciibital fossa. 142566 Index. Antrum of Higlimoi-e, 116 Diseases of, 117 Deutigerous cysts iu, 118 Dropsy and cystic disease of, 118 Polypus of, 118 Suppuration of, 117 Treatment, 118 Tumoiu'S of, 117 Auus, abscess near, 396 Absence of, 291 With opening of rectum into other canals, 292 Artificial, formation of, 296 By Amussat's operation, 296 By Callisen's method, 296 In cancer of rectum, 301 In children, 303 Cure of, 559 By Littrd's operation, 303 Cancer of, 484 Closure of, 291 By septum, 291 AVith absence of rectum, 292 Congenital malformations, 291 Fissure of, 482 Treatment of, 483 Fistula of, 394 Imperforate, 291 Prolapse of, 483 Spasm of spliiucter, 483 Ulcer of, 482 Aortic orifice, 203 ApLiisia, 203 Aphonia, 19 Apoj^lexy, 241 Appendage dysmenorrhcea, 514 Aqueduct of Fallopius, 119 Arachnoid, the, 233 Arcus senilis, 540 Areola,inflammation and abscess of,226 Arnold's nerve, 127 Arteriotomy, from temporal, 43 Artificial anus (see Anus, artificial) Ascites, 336 Ascitic fluid, 338 Asthenopia, 541 Atlas, disease of, 231 Dislocation of, 244 Attitude in hip disease, 165 Auriculo-ventricular orifices, 203, 204 Axilla, 136 Abscess of, 138 Fascia of, 142 Kelation of contents to walls, 138 Axillary glands, 137 Nerves, 137, 139 Veins, 137, 139 Axis, disease of, 231 Dislocation of, 244 Azygos veins, 221 Baker's cysts, 175 Base of skull, fractures of, 75 Battey's operation, 512 Bell sound, 214 Belly-ache and spinal disease, 250 Beud of elbow, 142 Benign polypus, 113 Bent arm, after venesection, 140 Biceps muscle, 136 Bichromate disease, 116 Bigelow's operation of lithotrity, 426 Bilateral dislocation of lower jaw, 39 Bilateral lithotomy, 419 Bile ducts, 315 Bladder, 465 Atony of, 435 Cancer of, 470 Cock's method of puncture, 468 Conditions of, unfavourable to lithotrity, 427 Congenital malformation of, 269 Danger of, in lithotrity, 426 Distance from surface, 404 Distension of, with overflow, 436 Extroversion of, 269 Fasciculated, 469 Haemorrhage from, 470 Irritable, 436 In boys, 436 Mucous membrane of, 469 Papilloma of, 470 Puncture above pnbes, 465 Through rectum, 465 Objections to, 466 Eelatious to jjeritoneuui, 488 Kupture of, 468 Sacculi of, 469 Sarcoma of, 470 Sounding the, 409 Errors iu, 410 Spence's puncture tlirough the perineum, 467 Stone iu, 417 Trigone of, 465 Tumours of, 470 Blind fistula in ano, 395 Piles, 479 Blood iu hajniatocole, 460 In urine, 469 Tests for, 47(t Vomiting of, in fracture of Hie skull, 77 Blood-vessels nf brain, 68 Breast, 225 IJectum, 477 Scalp, 64 Boys, impaction of calculus iu urefhi ii of, 435 Lateral lifhofomy in, 415 Diflk'ulties of, 417Index. 567 Eracbial artery, iu veuebectiou, 14G Plexus, lay Braiu, tlio, G8 (Jougeuital lieruia of nioiubraiie.s of, 83 Blood-vessels of, G8 Compressiini of, 8!) Coucussiuu of, 89 Coutusiou of, 5(31 Cortex, lesiou of, oGO Emboli, 71 Extravasatiou of blood in, 82 Fissures of the, 78 luHauunatiou of, 243 Injuries of, by coutrc coiiii, 70 Lacenitiou of, 501 Lobes of, 81 Membranes of, 05 -Motor eeutrcs, 7'J Paralysis, from coiiiiiressioii or iujury, 89 Protection of, 72 Skull relatious to, 78 Sight ceutre, 81 Substance, lesion of. 5(iil Tumours of, 89 Firancbial clefts, 13 Cysts, to Fistulio, 1-1 Breast, abscess of, 220 Amijutation of, 227 Caucer of, 137 Axillary glands affected in, 137 Diagnosis of, 220 Duct-cancer, 138 In male, 317 Oiicratiou for, 227 I'ain in, 220 IJreatli sounds, 211 Adventitious sounds, 212 J'lroucliial, 212 In <liseasc, 212 V'esicular, 211 In disciiso, 211 Hregnia, 7.'! Broca's Cdiivolution, 7h Bronchi, foreign bodies in, 2. Right and left, 2 Bronchocelo, 92 Acute, 92. 91 Cystic, 92 Kxcisiirn iti, 93 Fibrous, 92 Ligature of tliyrojil arti'iics in (s(^e vol. i.) Pulsating, 92 Sinijilo liyiiertroiiliy, 92 Bronclio|)liony, 213 Jirouchotouiy, 211 Ucasous for, 215 Bronchus, foreign bodies in, 2 Bruit de Diablo, 205 Brunner's glands iu burns, 285 Bryant's method of dividing the muscles of the soft palate, 57 Buccal cavity in fojtus, 50 Nerve, 121 Bulb of urethra, arteries of— Wounded iu lithotomy, 410 Woimd of, in lateral lithotomy, 418 Median lithotomy, 418 Bidbai- jiaralysis, 129 Bulbous urethra, 430 Bunion, 194 Watsou-Cheyne's operation for, 560 Hums, ulcer of duodenum in, 285 Bursa patelhc, diseases of, 178 luHamuiation of, 178 Suppuration of, 178 Tailor's, 550 lUirgte, diseases of, 178 xVbout knee, 177 Loose bodies in, 179 I n n«ck,41 Pursal tumour in lloor of mouth, 17 Cwcnni, 285 In intestinal obstruction, 287 C;ecal hei'nia, 379, 391 Cicsariaii section, 510 Calculi, 472 Chemical characters of, 172 Calculus in bladder, 405 Crushing of (see Lithotrity) Diagnosis of, 109 Encysted, 409 Extraction of— By lithotomy (see Lithotomy) By lithotrity (see Lithotrity) Facets on, 414 In females, 428 Kenuival of, I2S Hardness of, 110, 472 High opernlion, 422 Impaction of, in urethra of boy, 4.35 In kidney, .'i32 U]«!rations for (sec Lithotimiv and liithotrity) Oxalate of lime, 172 I'ain (iroductnl by, 11 7 I'liosphatic, 172 Shape and si/.e of, 172 Sounding for, |II9 Errors in, 409 Strui'ture of, 172 Symptoms of, 417 In urethra, 420, 435 Uric acid and urates, 472 Varieties of, 472568 Index. Callisen's oijeration for artificial auiis, •."J6 Uiuial of Nuck, lieruia iu, oi3, oTD Caucer of auus, 484 Iu axilla, 138 Gullet, 24, 271 Caucrum oris, G4 Capillary pulse, 203 Capsule, iuterual, 72 Caput obstipuui, 132 SucuedaueuTU, t!7 Carbuncle, facial, 03 Cardiac areas, 203, 204 Orifice of stomacli, iU'J Carious teeth, effects uf, Ul Caruochau's operation for neuralgia. 124 Carotic body, 474 Carotid tubercle, 4 Carpus, articulations of, 50G Cartilages of larynx, 14 Loose, iu kuee joiut (see vol. i.) Castration, 401 Catheter— liigelow's, 42(j Elbowed, 448 To pass, iu male, 431 In female, 433 Use iu enlarged prostate, 147 To tie iu a silver, 441 A soft, 441 Catheter fever, 443 Catheter life, 447 Catheter, ii coudee or bi-coiidtV, 148 " Cat's eye," .542 Cepbalha^matoma, 66 In scalp, 66 Subaponeurotic, 67 Subpericruuial, 67 Oephalhydrocele, 70 Cerebral abscess, 553 Arteries, 68 Irritation, 5(!l 8iuuses, 554 Cerebral hteniorrliago, 89 Artery of, 6ii Localisation, 78 Cerebro-spiual fluid, 72, 77 Cervical auricles, 47 Spine, disease of, 231, 244 Dislocation of, 241 Cliarbou, 64 Chest, 1"J8 Special forms of, 209 Barrel-shaiJed, 209 Phthisical, 209 Eickety, 209 llolatiou of lieart to wall of, 198 Lungs and pleurto to, 207 Tapping the, 217 Ohieno's operation fur knock-knee, 180 Cliimuey-sweeper's cancer, 453 Chloroform in hernia, .365 Cholecystectomy, 320 Choleoysteuterostomy, 320 Cholecystotouiy, 318 Chorda tympaui nerve, 121 Cii-cle of Willis, 68 Circocele, 461 Circumcision, 496 Claw-foot, hollow, 191 Cleft palate, 48 O^Jeratious for on hard palate, 57 On soft palate, 56 Cloquet's hca-nia, 389 Club-foot, 184 Club hand, 154 Coccydyuia, 249 Coccygeal bodj', 474 Cceliac axis, 260 Coercion bursa, 161 Colectomy, 309 Colloid cancer of abdomen, 337 Colon, 285 Malfonnatious of, 291 Colotoniy, 296 Inguinal, 303 Lumbar, 296 Oompressiciu of brain, 89 Of cord, 248 Concussion of braiu, 89 Pathology of, 89 Of spinal cord, 248 Couditious i^rotectiug braiu from injuries, 72 Condyle, inner, of femur, 179 Cougeuital defect of diaphragm, 392 Dermoid cj st in tioor of mouth, 47 Exompliiilos, 268 Fistube, 43 Hernia of cerebral membraues, 83 Diaphragmatic, 392 luguinal, 340 Hydrocele, 457 Malformations oi— Anus and rectum, 291 llhidder, 268 Phimosis, 196 Sacro-coccygeal body, 474 Congestive stricture, 433 Constrictors of pharynx, 526 Contracted luiee, 176 Coutracliou of lingers, 154 Contre coup, fracture by, 76 Injury of braiu by, 76 Oouvolutious of braiu— Motor centres, 78, 81 Eolation of to skull, 78 Cord, spermatic, 489Index. 569 Cord, spinal, 232 Concussion, 248 lujiu'ies, symptoms nf, 248 Corona veneris, G7 Coronal suture, 73 Coi'pus spongiosum,danger of wouii<li iig in lithotomy, 417 Striatum, 72 Corsets, objections to, 316 Costal cartilages, joints of, 255 Costo-colic fold, 321 Costo-coracoid membraue, 141 Coxalgiii (see Hip disease) Ci-auial sutures. 73 Cranio-tabcs, 75, 85 Oremaster muscle, 490 Cremasteric artery, 489 Ecflex, 490 Cretinism, 94 " Cricket tbigli," 535 Cricoid cartilage, 14 Crico-tbyroid space, 4, 5 Crural arch, 381 Canal, 382 Crushing of spinal cord, 248 Ci-yptorchimus, 343 Curves of the vertebral column, 231 Curvature of spine, angular, 251 Cut throat, 22 Dangers of, 23 Suicidal, 23 Cystic bronchocele, 92 Hygi-omata, 45 Sarcocele, 463 Cystic tumours of antrum, 118 Lips, 46 Mouth, 46 Neck, 45, 47 Cystitis, 417 Cystocele, 391 Cystotomy, 448 Supra-pubic, 449 Cysts, dentigerous, 118 Dermoid, 98 Hydatid, 314 Mucous, 46 In neck, 45, 47 In thyroid body, 92 Dangerous area of scalp, 02, C5 Dartos, 452 Davies-f!olIey's treatment of club- foot, 187 Deaf-m\itism, 553 Dental foramen, 31 Dentigerous cysts, 118 Dentition in rickets, 85 Depressed fracture of skull, 74 Diagnosis, 75 Treatment, 87 Dermoids, 98 Dermoid cysts, 98 In mouth, 47 In scalp, 84 On nose, 116 Diaphragmatic hernia, 392 Diphtheria, 4 Diagnosis from tonsillitis, 34 Diploic veins, 63 Direct inguinal hernia, 341 Dislocation of— Jaw, 38 Spine, 244 Distinguishing the largo bowel from the small, 272 Double hare-lip, 50 Operation for, 53 Dropsy of— Antrum, 118 Cardiac, 202 Hepatic, 202 Ovarian, 330 Eeual, 202 Duct-cancer of breast, 138 Duodenum, 283 Clinical points about, 284 Eupture of, 284 Ulcer of, in burns, 285, 270 Duodenostomy, 278 Dupuytren's—• Contraction of fingers, 151 Exostosis, 196 Euterotome, 559 Lithotomo cach^e, 419 Dura mater, 05 Dysphagia, '24, 274 Causes of, 24, 274 Elastic ligature in fistula, 396 Elbow, bend of, 142 Triangle at, 142 Contents of, 142 Venesection at, 143 Dangers of, 140 Veins of, 143 Embolism in cerebral arteries, 71 Emissary veins of skull, 02 Empyema, 222 Treatment of. Surgical, 223 Eucophalocele, 83 I'lncysted hydrocele of— Cord, 457 Testicle, 458 Enemata in hernia, 851 Entoroctomy, 309 Eiiterotomy, 308 Entorocelo, 379 Entoro-epi|ilocelo, 379 Euterotome, Dupuytren's, 559 Epididymis, 451Index. 570 Epigastric artery, deep, 340, 386 Pulsation, 200 Epiplocolo, 379 Epispadias, 269 Epistaxis, 110 Tveatmout of, 111 Erb's paridj'sis, 248 Excision of breast, 227 Bronchocole, 93 Intestines, parts of, 309 Larynx, 21 Pylorus, 277 Eeotiini, 486 Tongue, 100 Tonsils, 35 Uterus, 514 " Exercise bone," 532 Exomphalos, 268, 390 Exoplithalmic goitre, 92 Exostosis, ungual, 196 Extensor brevis digitorum, 539 Extensor of finger, rupture of, 155 Extensors and supinatm'S, paralysis of (see vol. i.) External inguinal hernia, 344 Piles, 478 Urethrotomy, 437 Extirpation of kidney, 333 Larynx, 21 Spleen, 323 Uterus, 514 Extravasation of urine, 397 Extroversion of bladder, 209 Pace, paralysis of, 122 Facial carbuncle, 63 Neuralgia, 124 Paralysis, 122 Fascia — Axillary, 142 Bicipital, 143 Cervical, 134 Colles's, 397 Iliac, 5(ll Ilio-|)Soas, 501 Lata, 170,380 Ijuuiboruni, 235 Obturator, 487 Parotid, 96 Pelvic, 487 Porinefll, 397 Prevertebral, 135 J'ropria of— Femoral hernia, 382 Inguinal hernia, 345 ]\ecto-vcsical (pelvic), lf<7 Scalp, of, 64 Thigh, 170 Transvorsalis, 500 Fasciculation of l)laddor, 169 " Fatty hornia," 384 Tumours in crural canal. 384 Diagnosis from hernia, 384 In scrotum, 457 On spermatic cord, 457 Females, calculus in, 428 Lithotomy in, 428 Lithotrity, 428 Femoral coxalgia, 165 Hernia, 380 Ligament, 381 Femur, trigone of, 175 Fergusson's method of dividing muscles of palate, 57 Fever, urethral, 437 Fibrous stricture of a;sophagus, 24, 271 Fifth nerve, on face, 29 Aiuiculo-temjioral nerve, 32 To expose, 32 Inferior dental, trunk of, 31 To expose, 31 Infra-orbital, 30 Lingual nerve, 32 To expose and divide, 33 Hilton's plan, 33 Lucas's plan, 33 Moore's plan, .33 Mental branch of inferior dental, 31 Second division in spheuo-maxillarj' fissure and fossa, 30 Supi-a-orbital, 29 To expose, 29 Fingers, conti-act.ion of, 154 Nerves of, 155 Fissure of anus, 482 Parieto-oecipital, 81 Of Eolando, 78 Methods to lind. 7S Of Sylvius, 80 Fistula in ano, 394, 482 Complete, 395 Incomplete or blind, 395 Operation for, 394, 39t; Salivai-y, 28 Umbilical, 268 Fistnhii in neck, 13 Flat foot, 188, 549 Ogston's operation for, 549 Fle.shy piles. 479 Flexor tendons, sheatli.s of, 119 Fluctuation, 336 Wav(-, 337 Fluid in antrum, 118 Foital remains, 253 Fold, gluteal, in hip di.sease, 167 Fontanello, sagittal, mcvus of, 84 Foot- Articulations of, 557 Deformities of, 184 Drop, 177Index. Foot- Nerves of, 194 Pevfovating ulcer of, 194 Splay, 188 Synovial membranes of, 192 Foramen of Mageudie, 73 Forceps, lithotomy, 406 Manipulation of, 414 Fore-arm, paralysis of muscles of, 148 Foreign bodies in air passages, 2, 3 lu nostrils, 115 Gullet, 3, 25 Fossa duodono-jejunalis, 284 Fossa, isohio-rectal, 393 Nasal, 107 Four-tailed bandage, 40 Fraotui-e of jaw, lower, 39 Nasal bones, 76, 110 Eibs, 215 Skull, 74 Spine, 244 Fracture-dislocation of the vertcdjral column, 244 Frontal sinuses, diseases of, 113 Galen, veins of, 554 Gall bladder, 318 Fundus of, 318 Stones, 318, 320 Ganglion in hand, 153 Compound, 153 Simple, 153 Gangrene of gut in hernia, 350 Gastric ulcer, 270 Gastrocnemius muscle (see Muscles) Rupture of (see Muscles) Gastro-onterostomy, 270, 278, 284 Gastrostomy, 271, 274 Gastrotomy, 271 Genito-crural nerve, 503 Genu valgum, 179 Operations for, 180, 181 Three stages of, 180 Girdle pain, 243, 240 Glabella, 73 Gland, mammary (see Breast) Parotid, 95 Thyroid, 90 Gloliuhir piles, 479 Glottis, lodema of, 12 Gluteal bursin, Gluteus niaxinuis, structures under, 10(1 Goitre (see lironchocolo) Exophtlialniic, 92 Gorgot, 400 Groin, glands in, ]5'.l Gullet (see (Ksophngus) Gum-elastic tube in litiiotomy, KiH Gustatory nerve, division of, 32 Guthrie's miisclo, 530 Hematocele, 460 Blood in, 460 Diagnosis of, 4G0 Spontaneous and traumatic, 4f)0, 461 Hasmatoma of scalp, GG On septum nasi, 110 Hasmaturia, 469 Haimorrhago, from bladder, 470 In excision of tongue, 99 From kidneys, 470 In lateral lithotomy, 420 In median lithotomy, 418 Nasal (see Epistaxis) From piles, 479 From prostate, 4G9 lu tracheotomy, 6 From tonsils, 35 From urethra, 469 Hismorrhoids (see Piles) Htomothorax, 216 Hahn's tube, 99 Hallux rigidus, 194, 549 Valgus, 194 Ham, bursa) in, 177 Hamstring tendons, division of, 176 Hand, clubbed, 154 Ganglion of, 153 Middle line of, 157 Palmar furrow, 157 Synovial sheaths of, 149 Hard palate, 50 Hare-lip, 48 Age for oiMrations in, 51 Double, 50 Operations for, 51 Single, 50 Hare's angle, 551 Head, diseases of, 84 In rickets, 85 In congenital syphilis, 85, 568 Tapping the, 73 Head injuries, loss of memory after, 5i Headache and spinal disease, 250 Heart, course of blood through, 201 Development of, 206 Dullness of, absolute, 200 Deep, 199 In dilatation, 200 lu hyjiertrophy, 200 In pericarditis, 200 Eolativo, 199 Suporliciiil, 200 Effect of valve disease, 201 Examination of, 204 Hypertroiihy of, 199 Malformations of, 20G, 207 MurTuiirs of, 204 Olnssificaiion, 204 Diflguosis, 204572 Index. Heart, mnrninrs of— Endocardial, 205 Exocardial, 205 Porciission of, 200 Relation of to surface, 198 Size of, 200 Sounds of, 201 Accentuation, 201 Reduplication, 201 Valves of, position, 203 Weight of, 200 Hemiplegia, 203 Hernia, 339 Causes, 346 Chloroform in reduction of, 355 Conditions presented by, 339 Congenital, 37G Contents of, 339 Coverings, 339 Diapliragmatio, 392 Direct, 341,344 Fatty, 266 Femoral, 380 Incarcerated, 340 InfautUe, 377 Inflamed, 340 Inguinal, 340 Into funicular process, 378 Internal, 284 Irreducible, 339 Lumbar, 392 Mesenteric, 284 Meso-colic, 284 Oblique, 344 Obstructed, 839 Obturator, 390 Omental, 351, 391 Operation with opening sac, 348 Division of stiictui-e, 351 Exposure of sac, 350 Management of adliesions, 351 Opening sac, 350 Treatment of sac, 359 Wounds of arteries, 380 Operation without opening sac, 317 Objections to, 348 Radical cure of, 356 Macewen's operation, 36-1 Spantou's operation, 359 AVood's operation, 357 Reducible, 339 Reduction— En hii.iac, 352 ii» rna-ise, 352 Sac of, 339 Signs of, 339 Strangulated, 340 (langreup in, 350 Moclmnism of, 840 Operation for, 347 Hernia, strangulated— Reduction of, 354 In mass, 852 Porsistonce of symptoms after, 352 Treatment of, 353 Seat of stricture, 347 Taxis in, 354 Treatment of, 301 Hernia, truss for, 355 Measiu-emeuts for, 350 Hernia—Special forms of, 370 Of bladder, 891 Of cerebral membranes, 83 Cn3cal, 391 Olocpiet's, 389 Diaphragmatic, 392 Direct, 344 Encysted, 378 Femoral, 380 Canal, 382 Contents of, 379 Diagnosis of, 384 Fascia jjropria of, 382 Opening sac in, 350 Operation for, 884 Relations of, 387 Ring, 882 Sheath, 381 Taxis in, 882 Treatment of, 384 Hour-glass hernia, 379 Inguinal, 340 Congenital, 376 Direct, 841 Coverings of, 345 Relations of, 344 Encysted, 378 External, 344 ]''ascia propria of, 345 Infantile, 377 Oblique, 344 Coverings of, 845 Relations of, 844 Operation for, 801 Seat of stricture, 347 Taxis in, 354 Varieties of, 340 Laugier's, 389 Littrd's, 389 Lumbar, 392 Mesenteric, 284 Meso-colic, 284 Obturator, 890 Coverings of, 390 Relations of, 390 Of ovai-y, 843 Scrotal, 344 Of tunica vaginalis, 370 Encysted, 378Index. 573 Hornin— ITmbilical, 300 Operation for, 391 Ventral, 302 Hcriiiotoiny, 347 Horpos zoster, 242 Hessolbacb's triangle, 340 Hey's ligament, 381 High operation of lithotomy, 422 Hilton, division of lingual nerve, 33 Hip joint disease, 104 Acetabular, 1C5 Arthritic, 105 Attitude iu, 105 Diagnosis of, 100 Dislocation iu, 107 Femoral, 105 Forms of, 105 Pain iu the knee in, 105 Histrionic spasm, 123 Hollow claw-foot, 101 Holt's treatment of stricture, 437 Housemaid's knee, 177 Howse's incision in gastrostomy, 272 Hydatids, 314 In liver, 314 Fluid iu, 337 Hydrencephalocele, 83 Hydrocele, 453 Acupuncture in, 400 Acute, 454 Discutieut lotions in, 400 Encysted, of the epididymis, 458 Of cord, 457 Treatment, 458 Infantile, 457 Of neck, 45, 475 Of spermatic cord, 457 Of tunica vaginalis, 453 Uougenital, 457 Coverings of, 450 Diagnosis of, 450 From encysted hydrocele, 453 From fatty tumour, 457 Hernia, 150 Fluid in, 454 Injections in, 465 Tai)iiing in, 454 Treatment of, 450 Varietiiis of, 453 ffydrocephalus, 73 Tapping in, 73 Hydroniyeliii, 255 Hydronephrosis, 328 Hydrophol)ia, 120 Hydrops pericardii, 217 Tapping in, 217 Tfydrorrachis, 255 Hydrosarcocolo, 457 Hydrothorax, 21C Tapi)ing chest iu, 217 Hygroma, 45, 475 Hypertrophy of— Prostate, 445 Thyroid gland, 02 Hypochondriac region, 201 Hysterectomy, 510 Hj'sterical stricture of tlie resophngiis, 24, 271 Ileo-cajcal valve, 286 Ileum, 284 Iliac abscess, 504 Fascia, 501 Incision in imperforate anus, 203 Imperforate anus, 291 Eectum, 202 Impermeable stricture, 440 Operation for, 440 Incarcerated hernia, 340 Incontinence of urine, 430 Indian rhino-plastic operation, 112 Indirect hernia, 344 Infantile hernia, 377 Paralysis, 242 Inferior dental nerve, dividing the, 31 Maxilla, dislocations of, 38 Fracture of the, 30 Thyroid veins, 0 Infra-orbital nerve, 30 Inguinal canal, 341 Oolotomy, 303 Hernia, 340 Inion, 74 In-knee, 170, 548 Intercostal arteries, 528 Nerves, 528 Intermaxillar}' bones iu hare-lip, 53 Management of, 53 Internal condyle of femur, 170 Hernia, 284 Jugular vein, 42 Piles, 470 Popliteal nerve, 170 Urethrotomy, 443 Intestinal obstruction, 285, 288 Amussat's operation for, 2! 0 Oallison's operation for, 200 Oolotomy for, 206 Littr(''s operation for, 303 Intestine, aclliesious of, in h(M-nia, 351 Management of, 361 Congested, in hernia, 360 Constricted, in hernia, 3(i3 Diverticulujn from, 200 Gangrenous, in lieruia, 350 Management of, 351 Hernia of, 370 Eemoval of portions, 300Index. 574 lutestiiio— Eiipture of, 284 Small, 282 lutestiuos, 282 Development of, 290 Large, 285 Malformation of, 291 Small, 282 Intra-orauial suppuration, 88, 553 Intra-tlioracic tumours, 218 Intubation of larynx, 12 Intussusception, 287 Inversion of testicle, 453, 454 Iodine in broncliocele, 93 Injection of, in hydrocele, 455 Irreducible liernia, 339 Iscliio-rectal abscess, 394 Ischio-rectal fossa, 393 Isthmus of thyroid, 4 Division of, 94 Jaundice, 315 Jaw, lower—• Dislocation of, 38 Fractures of, 39 Treatment of, 40 Subluxation of, 41 Treatment of, 648 Jejuuostomy, 278 Ileo-crecal valve, 28C Jejunum, 284 Joints,displaced cartilages in, 548 Operation for— In lower jaw, 548 In-knee, 548 Jugular vein— External, venesection from, 41 Internal, 42, 555 Kidney, the, 324 Affections of, simulating stone in bladder, 417 Calculous pyelitis, 329 Dissection to expose, 320 Floating, 333 Hromorrliage from, 170 Hilus of, 324 Hydronephrosis, 328 Movable, 333 Operations on the, 331 I'yonephrosis, 329 Fclvis of, 325 liolations of to— Colon, 327 Duodenum, 327 Surface, 325 Tlupturo of the, 327 Sarcoma of, 327 Size, 324 Stone in, 332 Kidney— Surgical operations on the, 331 Aspiration of, 331 Exploration of, 331 Nephrectomy, 333 Abdominal, 334 Lumbar, 333 Nephro-lithotomy, 332 Nephrorraphy, 333 Nephrotomy, 331 Tumours of, 326 Vessels of, poiut of origin, 260 Weight, 324 Knee, arteries of, 177 Bursa) about, 177 Contracted tendons, 176 Pains and sigmoid flexure, 1G5 Knives, hernia, 348 Lithotomy, 40G Method of holding, 406 Knock-knee, 179 Chieue's opei-ation for, 180' Macewon's operation for, 181 Ogston's operation for, 180 Koclier's excision of the tongue, 103 Results of excision of thyi'oid body, 94 Koeberle's sorn^-nceud, 511, 621 Lambda, 73 Lambdoid suture, 73 Laparo-elytrotomy, 517 Laparotomy, 307 Laryngeal obstruction, 4 Laryngotomy, 3, 11 Laryngo-tracheotomy, 3 Larynx, 14 Arteries of, 17 Cartilages of, 14 Excision of the, 21 Intubation of, 12 Joints of, 17 Movements of, 17 Muscles of, 16 Nerves of, 17 Paralysis of, 18 Seen with laryngoscope, 18 Turao\n-s of, 21 Ulcerations of, 21 Ventricle of, 15 Lateral lithotomy (see Lithotomy) Lawn tennis arm, 533 Log, 638 Sprain, 533 Log, lymphatics of, 19(i Lombert's suture, 31(1 Lovator aui— Relation to fistula in auo, 395 Palati, 57 Liglitormau's bottom, 101Index. 575 Liuea nlba, 260" Semiluuaris, 265 Transversa, 2()3 Lingual nerve, division of, 32 Lips, congenital nialforniations of, 50 Cysts of, 41) Litliectasy, 428 Litliic acid calculi, 472 Litholapaxy, 426 Lithotomo cacb(5e, 419 Lithotomy, 4i)o Arteries tbat may be wounded, 420 Gum-elastic tube in, 408 Instruments for, 405 Preparation of patient, 409 Bilateral, 41!) Lateral, 405 Accidents during, 410, 420 After treatment in, 414 In boys, 415 Difficulties iu, 415, 417 Dangers, 416 Ditlicultics, 416 In entoi'ing tlie bladder, 416 Extraction of stouo in, 414 Hfuniorrliago— After, 416 During, 414, 420 Incision, external in, 412 In prostate, 413 Parts divided in, 412, 413 Parts that may be wounded, 416,420 Peritonitis, after, 417 Position of knife iu, 413 Of patient in, 411 Sounding for stone, 400 Wound of— Arteries, 410 Bladder, 416 Bull), in, 417 Bectum, 416 Median, 418 Compared with lateral, 418 DifHcultioH of, 418 Ease and simplicity of, 418 Intlicntions for, 41'J Operation, 418 Wound of— Bulb in, 418 liectUMi in, 418 Supra-pubic, 122 Urethral, in fciniilc, 128 Vaginal, 42« Litlic.trito, 426 Bigelow's, 426 To pass the, 427 I.ithotrity, 425 Breaking stone in, 12M Lithotrity— Catheter for, 426 Conditions influencing choice of, 427 Cystitis after, 426 Dangers iu, 426 Impaction of fragments iu urethra, 426 In children, 427 Introduction of lithotrite, 427 Operation of, 428 Seizure of stone, 428 Brodie's method, 428 Civiale's method, 428 Littr(5's operation for intestinal obstruc- tion, 303 Liver, 311 Abscesses in, 314 Bile ducts, 315 Enlargements of, 314 Hydatids of, 314 Operations on, 318 Relations of, 311 To surface, 311 Size, 311 Tumours, 313 Weight, 311 Wound of, 312 Lordosis, in hip disease, 166 Lumbar incision for artificial anus, 296 Fascia, 295 Plexus of nerves, 503 Region, hernia in, 392 Lungs, 208 Relations of to surface, 208 Roots of, 29 Relations of, 219 Wound of, 313 Lymphatics of abdomen, 500 Of abdominal walls, 209 Of arm, 146 Of groin, 159 Of head, 130 Intestines, 293 Mamma, 227 Of nock,131,553 I,og, 19(; Pelvis, 500 Penis, 499 Prostate, 4 K; Rectum, 478 Testicle, 453 Tliorax, 25(1 Tongue, 107 Maceweu's oi)nration for hernia, 364 For knoi'k-kne(>, 181 Osteotome, 182 Macln.reu's op(>ralion for viuii'osc veins, 527Index. 576 Mageudie, forameu of, 72, 73 Maliguaut. uasal tumours, 114 Pustule, 6-t Sarcoceie, -JfiS (Stricture of— Qisoplia.gus, 2-1, 271 Rectuui, 484 Tumours of thyroifl bixl^', 92 Malformations of gut, 20(1, 2!ll Malposition of testis, 344 Mamma , 225 Cliuical points, 22G Excision of, 227 Spouce's test, 22G Thomas's operation, 229 Mammary abscess, 226 Glaaid, 226 Blood-vesselsand nervesof,225 Lymphatics of, 227 Marian operation, 418 Mastoid abscess, 553 Process, 552 Meatuses of the nose, 108 Meckel's diverticulum, 208, 291 Ganglion, 124 Median basilic vein, 143 Why selected for venesection, 143 Cephalic vein, 143 Median lithotomy, 418 Median nerve, 148 Paralysis of, 148 Mediastina, 218 Abscess of, 220 Tumours and swelliugs of, 220 Signs of, 221 Medio-bilateral lithotomy, 419 Melon-seed bodies, 153 Membranes of brain, 65 Hernia of, 83 Membranous urethra, 429 Meningeal arteries, 68 Meninges of the brain, 65 Of spinal cord, 232 Meningitis, 243 Meningocele, 83 Meningo-myelocele, 252 Mesenteric arteries, 260 Mesentery, 282 Meso-ca>oum, 285 Meso-nephron, 333 Micturition and spinal injuries, 245 Middle ear, abscess of, 553 Miner's elbow, 161 Monro, foramen of, 73 Moore's division of gustatory, 33 Morbus coxie, 165 Morgagui, S]iace of, 627 Morplui'a, 212 Morton's trriitinciit of spina bifida, 254 Solution, 254 Motor centres on cortex, 78 Mouth, floor of, 102 Development of, 48 Mucous nasal polypi, 113 Miiller's ablation, 522 Muscles of mastication, 38 Origin and insertion of, 523 Peroneal, 189 Spine, upper part of, 230 Tibials, 186 Musculo-cutaneous nerve, 190 Musoulo-spiral nerve, 147 Myelitis, spinal, 242 Myelocele, 252 Myomotomy, 622 Myxcodema, 94 Nreviis of fontanello, 84 Scalp, 84 Nares, anterior, 108 Posterior, 108 Nasal bones, fracture of, 110 Cavity, 108 Floor, 107 Fossa;, 107 Mucous membrane, 108 Nerve and connections, 108, 109 Polypi, 113 Septum, 107 Tumours of, 113 Naso-pharyngeal tumours, 114 Eemoval of, 114 Neck, congenital cysts of, 475 Congenital fistula^, 43 Fascia of, 134 Hydrocele of, 41 Lymphatic glands of. 131, 663 Middle line of, 4 Ndlatou's operation for— flare-lip, 51 Obstruction of gut, 308 NepLu'ectomy, 333 Nephro-hthotomy, 332 Nephi-ovaphy, 333 Nephrotomy, 331 Nerve stretching, 123,162 Nerves— Orauial, 119 Facial, 119 Fifth section of, 124 Glosso-pliaryngeal, 127 Giistatory section of, 32 Hypoglossal. 129 Intercostal, 528 I'ueumogastric, 127 liecurrent laryngeal, pressure on 220 Spinal accns.sory. 128 Nerves of spiiud cord, points of exit, 24 Nervous aHectious of larynx, 18Index. 577 XeiU'iilgia, facial, on Section of uervos iu, 2'.) Stretohiug affected uerve, 2!) N use— Abscess of, IKi lUeediug from, 110 I'Vutid discbarge from, 115 i'oreigu bodies iu, 115 Nerves of, 10"J Plastic Sm-gery of, 112 Polypi of, lis Kegious of, 108 Kestoratiou of, 112 ■Septum, deviation of, lOfi Tumours of, IIG Walls of, 107 Nuck, canal of, 348, 379 Oblique inguinal liernia, 311 Obstetrical paralysis, 248 Obturator artery, 380 Hernia, ,-i!M) ' Nerve, 104 Occipital nerve, great, 230 Occipito-frontalis,suppuratioii under, 07 fEdema of glottis, 12 CEsopliageal bougie, to pass. 25 'EsopLagotoniy, 25 'EsopUagostomy. 25 (-Esophagus— Dysphagia from pressure on, 271, 274 Lymphatics of, 25 liclations of, 23 In neck, 23 In thorax, 21 Stricture of, 21, 271 ('aucerous, 24, 271 Drunkard's, 25, 271 Fibrous, 24, 271 Gastrostomy fur, 25 Hysterical or spasmodic, 21, 271 Ogstou's operation for— Knock-knee, 180 Flat-font, 54!l Olecranon, luilai'gcnient of bursa ovei', 101 "mentum in heruiii, 351 Omohyoid muscle, 521 Uses of, 524 ()mj)hHlocele, 3!M) Oophorectomy, 612 Ophthalmoplegiii,, 540 Optic nemitis, 81) Orbit, haLMuorrhago into, 7() Orchitis, syphilitic, 403, 104 Organic stricture of o;sciphagus, 24,271 Of urethra, 433, 412 Otic ganglion, 120 Ovarian dropsy, 33(i Fluid iu, 337 Pain, 491 Ovarian tumours, 50!) Diagnosis, 336 Excision of, 506 Treatment of, 500 Ovaries, lierjiia of, 343 Keuioval of, 512 Ovai-iotomy, 506 Mode of performing, 507 After treatment, 508 Preparation of patient, 500 Ovary, the, 50!l Overflow of urine, 430, 445 Ox-eye, 541 Oziena, 115 Simple, 115 Strumous, 115 Syphilitic, 115 Pain iu calculus, 417 In hip joint disease, 165 In sacru-iliac disease, lO'J Palate, dermoids of, 58 Development of, 50 Hard, fissures of, 50 In idiots, 57 Plastic Surgerj' of, 50 Soft, 57 In syphilis, 57 I'aiiipiiuforiu plexus, 481', 401 Pancreas, 270 Atrophy of, and diabetes. 282 Cancer of, 280 Cysts of, 281 Pelations of, 270 Papillomata of bladder, 470 Kidney, 328 Larynx, 21 Paracentesis (see Tapping) Paralysis of— Anterior crural, 104 External jjopliteal, 100 Fa.'ial, 122 Great sciatic, 101 iuterjial ])oiiliteal, 170 Median, 148 Obturator, 101 Parametritis, W\) Parajihimosis, 407 Treatment of, 4!i7 Paraplegia dolorosa, 2 13 Paraplegia from spinal disease, 251 I'arieto-occipital fissure, 81 I'aronychia, 153 Parotid abscess, 0() Duct, wound of, 28 Excision of, !)7 Fascia, 06578 Index. i'arotid gland— Diseasos of, IMi Structures in, 'M\ Inflaiuniatiou of, 'J7 Kegiou, 1(5 Tumours of, 06 Parotitis, 97 Parovarian fluid, 337 Parrot's nodes, 8o Patella, disease of bursa, 17S Pectorilo<iuy, "ilo Wliispering, 213 Pedicle of uterine fibroids, 510 Pelvic blood-vessels,-191 Fascia, 487 Poritoueuni, in female, 188 In male, 488 Pel\ns, diffuse cellulitis, 417, 48U rioor of, 488 Kidney, of, 3-_'5 Penile urethra, 430 Penis, the, 493 Amijutation of, 197 Kerves of, 495 Structure of, 433, 442 Wound of dorsal artery, 120 Of vein, 444 Perforating ulcer, 194. 253 Pericardium, tapping the, 217 Pericranium, 65 Attachments of, 65 Blood under, 66 Pus under, 67 Perimetritis, 489 I'eriueal abscess, 398 Cystotomy, 448 Fascia, 397 Fistula, 137, 112 Incision in imperforate anus, 293 Section for stricture, 437, 410 A'essels and nerves, 403 Periuepbritic abscess, 329 Perineum— Depth of, 404 Dissection of, 393 Divisions of, 393 In female, 393, 402 Nerves of, 403 Operation for rniitnre. 53 Perityphlitis, 288 Abscess after, 288 A'arieties of, 28K Peritoneum in desi-ent of testicle, 342 In misplaced testicle, 314. 15-") Wound in liiinbnr cololomy, 301 Peroneal nerve, 190 Pes cavus, 1!>1 Petit's triangle, 296, 392 Phantom tumour, 263 Pharyngutomy, 26 Pharynx, 27 Abscess behind, 28 At side, 27 Aneurism pressing on, 27 Foreign bodies in, 28 Openings into, 27 Relations of, 27 Scalds of, 3 Phimosis, 495 Ac<piired, 49G Congenital, 496 Circumcision for, 496 Dilatation in, 496 Slitting prepuce for, 49(i I'hosphatic calculi, 472 I'htliisis with fistula in auo, 394 Pigeon breast, 209 Piles- Blind, 479 Bleeding, 479 Causes of, 478 Cautery, 480 Crushing, 480 Excision, 480 External 478 Fit of, 479 Injection of, J8l Internal, 479 Ligature of, 480 Treatment of, 479 External, 179 Internal, 4hO I'lastic Surgery of lii)S, 51 Nose, 112 Palate, 56 I'latj'sma myoidcs, 523 Uses of, 523 Pleura, air in, 216 Blood in, 216 Iielatioii to surface, 207 Tapping the, 217 Plugging nostrils, 111 Pneu)nonia, suppurative, 105 Pollock's method of diviiling muscles of soft palate, 57 Polypus of antrum, 118 In frontal sinuses, 113 Nasal, 113 Fibrous,114 Malignant, 111 JIucous, U.'t Pharyngeal, 114 I'ojie or poop, taking the. 535 l'o|jlileal bursa. 178 Nerve, external. 190 Internal, 179 Space, 175 Post-pharyugeal abscess, 28 Pott's disease of spine, 251 Puffy tumour, 885 Index. Poupart's llgcameut, liiS Strictures uudor, 108 I'roijuco, tlie, 491: Ciroumcisiou of, lOii Slitting up for pliiiuosis, I!M; I'roliipse of rectum, ISo Prostate, the, 4-14: Prostate glaud, abscess of, 447 Oaucer of, \'r>i\ Dilatation of, iu litliutoiuy, llf^ Eulargemeut of, 44:") lurtanimatiou of, 447 Lj iupliatics of, 44(1 Nerves of, 440 Mecbauical effects, 44:") Eeteutiou of uriue from, 445, 447 Symptoms of, 445 Treatment of, 447 Structure of, 44G T'rostatectomy, 448 i'rostatic plexus of veins, 4 14 Psoas abscess, OOl Muscle, 6i)0 Pterion, 7o l^tosis, ojjeratiou for, Pudic arter^', 420 Pulmouarj- cavities, tapijiug, "Jl I Pulsating broiicLocele, P\dse, capillary. "iO:! Venous, -202 Puncture of bladder, l(jo Above pubes, 4()5 Tltfough perineum, 1137 Per rectum, 4(i;") I'linctured fracture of skull, 71 I'us in urine, 471 Tests for, 471' Pyelitis, calculous, I'yelo-uepliritis, 321) Pylorus, 276 Kxcision of, 277 Jioreta's operation, 27H Stricture, 27y I 'youeplirosis, H2!) I'yuria, 471 ]>adical cure! of liernia, 'Ahh Of varicocele, 402 li'ailwny spine, 2 111 Hales, dry, 212] Moist, 212 li'anula, 40, 40 \'arioties, 40 lieaction of degeneration. Kectangular staff, 40o, 400 Itectum, 470 Abscesses near, 3!Hi Absence of, 2!I2 Arrangement of vessels of, 177 Ivoctum— Ballooned rectum, 484 Cancer of, 484 Excision of, 480 Finger iu, what felt, 4^<y Fistulous openings into, ol'j Malformations of, 2!)1 Nerves of, 478 Occlusion of, by septum, 2!(2 (_)peuing into other canals, 2'J2 I'olj'pi of, 485 Prolapse of, 483 Puncture of bladder through, 405 lielations of, 477 Sphincters of, 482 Diseases near, 482 Sti'icture of its three parts, 481 Vessels of, 4 77 Wound of, in lithotomy, 410, 418 Rectus abdominis muscle, 20;> Sheath of, 204 Contents of, 205 Reducible hernia, 3o!( Keilex act, 2311 KeHexes, abdominal, 241t Ankle, 250 Cremasteric, 2411 Epigastric, 2411 Gluteal, 241( Knee, 2411 Plantar, 250 Eegnoli's excision uf tongue, 102 Resection of small gut, ;!ort Respiration, frequency' of, 210 Rhythm of, 210 Respiratory movement, types of, 211 Retention of urine (see Urine) Rhinoplastic operations, 112 Ribs, to count, 20() Fracture of, 215 (Jomplicatioiis of. 2hi Rickets, head in, 76 Symptoms of, 2011 Rider's bone, 530 Sprain, 530 Rigidity, 24 I Early, 211 Late, 24 1 Riiiui glottidis, 10 State t)f in brealljing and singing, I Rolando, lissure nf, 78 How to lind, 7N, Rougci's operation, I I 5 Round lignuients of uterus— Shortening ipf, 5111 Sao of hernia, 3311 Changes of tluid in. 35n Opening the, 348, 3.)0 Treatment of, 3511580 Index. Siioculated bladder, 46'J Siicro-iliac joiut, I 6'J Disease of, IG'.i Diaguusis, IGS* Symptoms of, IG'J Sagittal foutanelle, 73 Suture, 73 Salivary calculi, 4(5 Fistula,'_'8,_ 558 Siiuger's operatiou, 022 Sapbena vein, varix of, 172, 17o Loug, 172 Sbort, 170 Sapbenous opening, 880 Sarcocelo, 468 Cystic, 41)3 Maliguant, 403 Simple, 403 Sj'philitic, 41)3 Table contrasting, 404 Tubercular, 403 Sarcoma of autrum, 117 Of nose, 115 Of parotid gland, '.>7 Saw, Hey's, 80 Scalp, tbe, 02, 01 Diseases of, 81 Daugerous area,'" of, 02, Ou Dermoids cysts of, 84, 85 Fatty tixmour of, 84 Injuries of, 02 Nhjvus of, 84 Veins of, 03 Wounds of, 02 Dangers of, 02 Scalpels in litbotumy, 4U0 Scarjja's triangle, 159 Glands of, 15!) Swellings iu, 100 Scbneiderian membrane— Tbickening of, 113 Diagnosis of, 113 Sciatic nerve, great, 161 Course of, 101 Stretcbing tlie, 162 Scoop litbotomy, 414 Scrofulus testicle, 401 Scrotal bcruia, 31U Tumours, 45!l Scrotimi, cancer of, 453 Sudillot, excision of tonguo. 101 Gastrostomy, 272 Seminal tubes, 451 Septic broncbo-pneumonia, 101 Septum crurale, 382 Of nose, abscess of, 110 Lateral deviation of 108 Serpiginous ulcer of cornea, 544 Sorratus maguus, 531 Paralysis of, 531 Sbeatbs of llexur tendons, 14'J Sboulder-tip, pain and liver trouble, Sigmoid flexure, 280 Sinus, frontal, disease of, 113 Skull, fractures of, 74 Of base, 75 By contre coup, 76 Contusion of, 75 Depressed, 74 Fissured, 74 Hiemorrbage iu, 70 Necrosis of, 67 Punctured, 74 Signs of, 76 Simple, 74 Sinuses of, 75, 554 Sutui'es of, 73 Trepbiuiug tbe, 86 Vault, 74 Vomiting of blood in, 70 Watery fluid discharged iu, 77 Sounding for stone, 40!t Soutbey's drainage trocar, 335 Spanton's operation for hernia, 35!i Spasmodic strictui-e of (esophagus. 24, 271 Of ui-etbra, 433 Speruuitii; artery, 489 Cord, 489 Division of, iu castration, 492 Hydrocele of, 457 Relation of, to hernia, 344 Varix of, 401 Spermatocele, 45'.t Fluid in, 459 Spermatozoa in fluid of encysted liydro cele, 458 Spina bitida, 184, 251 Occulta, 253 Treatment of, 254 Varieties of, 252 Spinal accessory nerve, 128, 554 Spinal cord, 232 Centres iu cervical enlargement, 24 Concussion of, 248 Conduction in, 236 Coveriugs of, 232 Exit of sjiinal nerves, 247 Grey matter, functions of, 238 Injuries of vertebral column, 214, Iu railway collisions, 249 Length of, 233 Lesions of, 230 Meningocele, 252 Motor path, 235 Strands, 234 Protection of the, 244 Sensory path,230 Strands, 234581 Index. Spine, the, 230 Caries of, 251 Concussion of, 248 Curves of the, 231 Dislocation of, 244 Fractures of, 244 Signs and symptoms of, 245 lujm-ies and defsecation, 245 And micturition, 245 And respiration, 244, 248 Pott's disease of, 251 Trephining the, 250 Spitting of blood, 203 Splay foot, 188, 549 Spleen, 321 Extirpation of, 323 Percussion of, 322 Relations of, 321 Rupture of, 323 Size, 321 Tumours of, 322 Weight, 321 Splenic vein, aneurismal varix of, 322 Spontaneous hfematocele, 461 Stab of chest behind, 312 Staff for lithotomy, 405 Chiene's, 406 Rectangular, 406 Staphyloraphy, 66 Stenson's duct, 28 Sterno-mastoid muscle— Dividing the, 133 Relation of to tumours, 523 Sternum, holes in, 255 Stiff big toe, 195, 549 Stomach, 269 Arteries of, 270 Dilatation of, 276 Proximity, to heart, 270 Relations, to abdominal wall, 269 Relations of, 270 Strictiu'e of, 271 Stone in bladder, 417 In kidney, 328 Strangulated hernia, 340, 347 Stricture in hernia, 347 Of oesophagus, 24, 271 Of rectum, 484 Of urethra, 433 Stye, 547 Subarachnoid space, 65 Subdural space, 65 Sublingual bursa, 47 Submammary abscess, 226 Submastoid potato tumour, 521 Submental excision of tongue, 102 Suboccipital triangle, 230 Nerve, 230 Sulcus of Rolando— Rules to find, 78 Suppuration— In antrum, 117 In axilla, 138 Of breast, 226 Of bursa patellaj, 178 In hip joint disease, 168 Of kidney, 329 In sacro-iliac disease, 169 Supra-mammary abscess, 226 Supra-pubic cystotomy, 449 Lithotomy, 422 Indications for, 422 Supra-i'enal— Capsules, 330 Nerves, 330 Size, 330 Weight, 330 Siu'gical kidney, 329 Sutures of— Apposition, 229 Button, 229 Hare-lip, 56 Lembert's, 311 Support, 229 Sylvian fissure, 80 Syme's operation for stricture, 437 Staff, 439 Synovial cysts, 175 Membranes of foot, 192 Of hand,147 Syphilitic orchitis, 463, 464 Ozsena, 116 Sarcocele, 463 Syringo-myelia, 255 Syringo-myelocele, 252 Tabes mesenterica, 294 Table of spines of vertebras, 256 Of landmarks in front, 257 Tagliacotian oiDoration, 112 Tait, Lawson, cholecystotomy, 318 Removal of uterine appendages, 513 Talipes, 184 Calcaneo-valgus, 188 Calcaneus, 189 Cavus, 191 Equiuo-varus, 184 Equinus, 187 Valgus, 188 Valgiis, spurious (T. planus), 188, 549 Varus, 184 Tapping the— Abdomen, 335 Antrum, 118 Chost, 217 Head, 73 Hydrocele, 454 Pericardium, 217 rioura, 217 *2p582 Index. Tarsus— Articulatious of, 657 SyuoNdal membranes of, 192 Taxis— In femoral hernia, 382 In inguinal, 364 Teeth, 69 Extraction of, 61 • Overcrowding of, GO Syphilitic, 60 Strumous, 60 Temporal abscess, 96 Artery, arteriotomy from, 43 Fascia, 96 Temporo-maxillary articulation, 37 Dislocations at, 38 Movements at, 38 Sphenoidal lobe, 81 Tendo-achillis, division of, 187 Bursa beneath, 187 Tendons, disease of sheaths, 149 Hamstring, contraction of, 176 Teno-synovitis, 151 Tenotomy and the peroneal nerve, 177 Of hamstrings, 176 Of steruo-mastoid, 133 Teratoma, 253 Testis, 450 Cancer of, 463 Chimney-sweep's cancer of, 463 Coveriugs, 460, 462 Cystic disease of, 462, 463 Descent of, 342 Development of, 451 Enchondroma of, 463 Gummata in, 463 Inflammation of, 463 Acute, 454 Chronic, 463 In inguinal canal, 344 In foBtus, 342 Inversion of, 463, 454 Malposition of, 344 Nerves of, 463 Eelation to inguinal hernia, 344 Eemoval of, 491 Sarcoma of, 463 Scrofulous, 464 Seminal tubes, 451 Solid enlargements of, 463 Syphilitic disease of, 463 Tubercular, 463 Tumours of, 463 Undescended, 343 Tetanus, 129 Thecal abscess, 151 Thigh, fascia of, 170 Thoracic viscera, 198 Thorax, 198 Thoracoplasty, 224 Throat, cut, 22 Thymus, 9,10 Thyroid, the, 90 Thjri-oid gland— Diseases of (see Bronchocele). Division of isthmus, 94 Duct of, 90 Malignant tumours, 92 In tracheotomy, 7 Cartilage, 14 Thyroidea.ima artery, 91 Thyrotomy, 8 Tillaux, triangle of, 272 Toe- Hammer, 196 Stiff big, 195 Webbed, 196 Toes, nerves of, 194 Tongue, 99 Cancer of, 106 Division of lingual nerve for, 32 Ligature of Ungual artery in, 103 Mucous cyst of, 46 Nerves of, 107 Operations on, 99 Eemoval of, 99 By excision, 100 Hasmorrhage during, 99 Aftei- treatment, 101 By Kocher's operation, 103 By Eegnoli's method, 102 By S^dillot's or Syme's method, 104 Structures divided, 101 By Whitehead's method, 100, 102 Tonsils, 34 Abscess of, 37 Arteries of, 36 Bleeding from, 36 Hypertrophy of, 35 Lymphatics of, 35 Nerves of, 35 Eemoval of, 36 Tonsillitis and diphtheria, 84 Torticolhs, 132 Division of spinal accessory nerve for, 133 Of sterno-mastoid, 133 Trachea— Foreign bodies in, 2 OiJCuing in— Temporarj', 3 Permanent, 3 Operations on, 3 Eolations of, 1 In neck,2 In thorax, 2 Vai'iations in length, 1Index. 583 Tracliea " tampoou," !)9 Tubes, 7 Tracheal obstructiou, 4 Tracheotomy, 3 After treatment, 8 lu children, 10 Difficulties aud accidents, !l Hcemorrhage in, 9 High operation, 3, 6, 7 Indications for, 11 Low operation, 3, 6, i) Operation of, '1 Trepanning, 86 Trephining the skull, 86 Ramus of jaw, 31 Spine, 250 Trendenlenbm-g's trachea "tampoon," 99 Triangular ligament of the uretlira, 397 Trigone, 466 Trophic systems, 240 Divisions of, 240 Trusses, 355 Tubercle of prostate, 447 Tubercular kidney, 329 Sarcocele, 464 Testicle, 463 Tumours of— Antrum, 117 Brain, 89 Crura cerebri, 90 Larynx, 21 Naso-pharyngeal, 114 Neck, 96 Nose, 113, 110 Ovaries, 509 Pons, 90 Scrotum, fatty, 457 Spine, 243 Testis, 463 Thyroid body, 92 Tunica albuginea, 450 Vaginalis— Hasmatocclo of, 460 Hernia in, 456 Hydrocele of, 453 Tympanic cavity, size of, 557 Ulcer of anus, 482 Of duodenum, after burns, 285 Of foot, perforating, 194, 253 Ulnar nerve, 148 Umbilical cord, 267 Fistula, 268 Hernia, 268 Umbilicus, 267 Urachus, 268 Uranoplasty, 57 Urate of anitnoniuni calc\ihiH, 472 Urctero-vaginal listula, 328 Ureters, 325 Double, 325 Urethra, 429 Bulb of, wounded, 416,418 Calculus in, 435 Curves of, 431 Dilatation of, for calculus— In female, 428 In treating stricture, 436 Examination of, in stricture, 436 False passages in, 432 Hajmorrhage from, 444, 469 Inflammation of, 417 Laceration of, 432 Length of, 429 Membranous, 429 Narrowest parts of, 430 Opening the— In retention, 467 In stricture, 437 Penile, 430 Prostatic, 429 Rectum, opening into, 292 Eupture of the, 397 Shape of, 430 Size of, 430 Stricture of, 433 Catheterism in, 436 Accidents attending, 433 AuEBsthetics in, 434 Congestive, 433 Treatment of, 433 Detection of, 436 Diagnosis, from enlarged prostate, 446 Dilatation of, continuous, 442 Examination of the patient for, 436 Extravasation of uriue in, 397 After gonorrhoea, 433 Forms of, 433 Impedes lithotrity, 427 Impermeable, 440 Mechanical results of, 328 Muscular, 433 Operations for, 437 Organic, 434 Retention of urine from, 435 Resilient, 437 Seat of, 434 Spasmodic, 433 Treatment of, 433 Syme's opeiution for, 437 Symptoms of, 435 Treatment of organic, 43G, 442 By dilatation, 436 Division, 437, 443 Forcible expansion, 437 Urethral fev(U-, 437 Triangle, 397Index. 584 Uretlirotomy— Median incision, 489 In impermeable stricture, 440 For permeable stricture, 437 Combined internal and ex- ternal, 443 External, 437 Internal, 443, 444 For urinary fistula, 437 Uric acid calculi, 472 Urinary calculus, 472 Fever, 443 Urine, blood in, 469 In calculus, 470 Extravasation of, 397 Treatment of, 398, 401 Incontinence of, 436 Overflow of, 445 Eetention of, 435, 436 From enlarged prostate, 435, 436 Aspiration in, 467 Puncture above pubes in, 465 Through rectum, 466 Urethrotomy in, 437 Uterine appendages, removal of, 513 Fibroids, 509 Natural terminations, 510 Uterus, broad ligament of structures in,489 Excision of whole, 514 Vagina, fistula into, 328 Varicocele, 461 Diagnosis of, 461 Eadical cure of, 462 Varicose veins, 173 Varix, aueurismal, 322 Vas deferens, 490 Rupture of, 490 Vastus internus, 636 Venesection on the arm, 143 On neck, 41 Veins of Galen, 664 Veins, hasmon-hage from during lithotomy, 414 Rectum, arrangement of, 478 Spermatic varix of, 641 Venous pulse, 202 Ventral hernia, 392 Vermiform appendix, 286 Excision of, 289 Vertebral canal, tumours in, 243 Vertebral column, 231 Curves of, 231 Movements of, 232 Vitello-intestinal duct, 268 Vocal cords, 15 False, 15 Length of, 16 True, 15 Vocal fremitus, 211 Resouance, 213 Volvulus of sigmoid flexure, 287 Vomiting of blood in fractured skull, 76, 77 Washerwoman's sprain, 535 Wrist, 636 Watson Cheyne's operation for bimion, 660 Watson, excision of thji-oid, 93 Weaver's bottom, 161 Wens, 84 Wharton's duct, relation to ranula, 46 White line, in pelvic fascia, 488 Wheelhouse's operation in m-ethra, 440 Whitehead's excision of tongue, 100 Operation for piles, 480 Whitlow, 151 Treatment of, 152 Wilde's incision, 552 Line, 552 Wilson's muscle, 530 Wolfler's operation, 270 Womb-stones, 610 Wood's operation for hernia, 357 Wool-sorter's disease, 221 Word-blindness, 660 Word-deafness, 560 Wound— Of bladder in lithotomy, 417 Bulb of urethra in lithotomy, 417 Diaplu-agm, 312 Intestine in hernia operation, 350 Lungs, 313 Rectum in lithotomy, 416 Wrist— Synovial membranes of, 147 Anterior annular hgament, 160 Posterior annular ligament, 160 Wry-neck, 132 X-knee, 179 Yellow gum, 547 LIBRARY 'vInostone, Printers, 4 Molbounio Ejii^o, E^i^^bjirgh.wm I mm