Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 23 dently insufficient to establish the principle in its full extent. I endeavoured, accordingly, to submit to a particular regimen, and examine the state of the pulse under the influence of a diet always similar at every hour of the day. This decisive experi- ment could not be pushed any length ; so difficult a matter did I find it to break through, at once, those habits which a great number of years had firmly established. 6. " All these things (continues Fodere) singularly facilitate the return of the venous blood towards the heart; and this is one of the causes of the evening paroxysm which takes place in all fevers." But, having denied that any such gradual increase of the pulse exists, we need scarcely stop to say, that this cannot be one of the causes of the evening paroxysms in fever. This opinion appears to be borrowed from the celebrated Cullen. That author, however, increased the facility of expla- nation, by describing two exacerbations or augmentations of the pulse; one about mid-day, the other towards evening. This explains, in his opinion, the occurrence of the double paroxysm in hectic fever.* The whole is a pure hypothesis, whigh seems partly to have arisen from supposing that the pulse was governed by the same laws in health and disease. So far as my observa- tions go, the order of nature in disease is entirely reversed, and the observations of Cullen, Fodere, and others, are applicable only to the unhealthy. That this acceleration of the pulse (which is really an aberration from the regular laws of nature) actually happens in fever, the testimony of Cullen, generally so accurate in the observance of disease, will sufficiently establish; and that this universally takes place in phthisis, we have, unfor- tunately, too many opportunities to verify.f It was from the sinking of the pulse towards evening that I ventured, indepen- dent of other circumstances, to prognosticate favourably in the case of a child labouring under typhus fever. It was this which induced me to hope that some of the functions had begun to resume their natural order, and that recovery was a probable event. Nor was I deceived; by proper attention the patient from that day rapidly amended. 7. The physiologists who invented the various diurnal accele- rations of the pulse, one, two, or more, just as suited their fancy or necessity, will perhaps find little difficulty in explaining the gradual diminution of the pulse, should the phenomenon appear to them to be correctly stated. With me, I confess, the cause is yet excessively obscure, because I have not found it connected • First Lines of the Practice of Physic, vol. i. c. 862. t Beddoes' Essay on Consumption, p. 252.