Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 31 $to, The increase of the pulsations occasioned by change of posture, may shortly prove a valuable asthenometer. There are others, but they do not seem so certainly to indicate debility as the above. Some of them, indeed, are more calculated to detect disease than simple debility. These asthenometers are* the hot-bath, the cold-bath, or cold air, also the non-excitation of the pulse by stimulants, supposed to happen in those habi- tuated to spirituous liquors. Some may allege, and perhaps with justice, that this shall be found to indicate rather a state of disease than debility. This condition of the arterial, or perhaps nervous system, which renders the pulse non-excitable by stimulants, is supposed to arise from other causes besides the abuse of spirituous liquors. " Une observation tres remar- quable que j' ai eu occasion de faire, c' est que, lorsque la sensi- bilite a ete emoussee par une affection chronique, les opiacees finissent par n' avoir plus de prise sur 1' economie animale."f I have seen one case which favoured somewhat the above opinion —the case of a young man, who, without doubt, laboured under hereditary predisposition to consumption. His pulse, on one occasion, I found to be not at all affected by a very great quan- tity of spirituous liquors. The opinion remains to be proved or refuted by additional observation. Indeed, as it is customary with those labouring under chronic complaints to resort to the use of narcotics, (this practice had not been adopted in the case just mentioned,) it is not to be wondered at that this class of drugs should at last cease to produce their wonted effects. Somewhat connected with this subject is the detection of commencing disease in the lungs, or pulmonic debility. This, according to Beddoes,J is indicated by a continued high pulse. " When consumption is advancing, it will be more frequent than natural, and, in general, much more frequent towards the close of day." The whole subject is novel, and deserves attention. As my only wish in prosecuting these experiments has been to correct a few notions regarding the physiology of the human body, and to advance that estimable science, I shall feel gratified with an examination of my experiments, whether that lead to a refutation or to a confirmation of the opinions maintained throughout this essay. • Beddoe's Hygeia. f Noureaux Elemens de Therapeut. et de Mat. Med. par Alibert, torn, ii. 506. \ Essay on Consumption, p, 252.