Observations on the Taenia Solium. 12 condition throughout the winter. The use of this sort of food, from peculiar circumstances, was unavoidable. I shall not here dispute the point, whether the tcenice were transferred, as com- pletely formed animals, from the unwholesome and diseased meat, to the stomach and intestines of man, or are there gene- rated ; it is suflBcient to have established the point, that they arise from the use of unwholesome animal food, — from the flesh of animals which have been diseased. I have avoided, as much as possible, detailing any minute facts regarding the natural history of tcenia, and other intes- tinal worms, supposing most practitioners in medicine to be acquainted with the XeadXng phenomena of these animals- The following brief remarks I therefore submit to the naturalist, and claim his indulgence for any trifling error which may occur. Various ridiculous opinions were formerly entertained re- garding that variety of ttenia called Solium, most of which have been successfully combated by the ingenious and accurate Rudolphi. It is now known that four individuals of the species Tcenia Solium have been discharged by the same patient; hence the obvious impropriety of the name. The theory for- merly upheld, regarding the indefinite growth of joints to supply the place of those detached from the body of the tcenia, and passed by stool, has been rendered exceedingly doubtful. The Tcenia Solium seems to be regenerated rather by an evolution of joints already existing, or by the production of new joints near that extremity of the worm where naturalists have proved the head to be placed. It is probable, therefore, that Rudolphi may be correct, when he states, that the joints of the Tcenia Solium do not increase in number, but in length ; or we may assent to the opinion of Pallas, who seems to think that there may be a reproduction of joints towards the head extremity of the animal.* It'is no longer disputed by naturalists, that in the small perfect Tcenia Solium there are constantly found a distinct head and tail joint, which is not perforated by any vessel or tube; but as the animal, when suffered to come to maturity, secrete joints in great numbers, which pass off with the fences, it is obvious, should the_' observations of naturalists be correct, that the tail joint must jirsthe detached, and unless regenerated at a future period, ought never afterwards to be found in the animal. This difliculty has been slightly touched on by preced- ing writers. It seems to prove that the longevity of the animal is considerable, and that its original habits must have become * It is a remarkable fact, that no well authentirnted case exists of worms being found in the intestines of the foetus or infiuit at tlic breast.