Observations on the Tcenia Solium. 14 by being inimical to their vitality. Of these, the most effica- cious is spirits of turpentine, given either alone, or compounded with empyrouniatic animal oil, as in the celebrated preparation of Chabert. 1 have generally found, that from one or two drachms of ol. terebinth, given in a little water, morning and evening, for three successive day%, were sufficient to destroy the Teeniti Solium, (even in the most obstinate cases,) and cause it to leave the intestines without the aid of any purgative medicine. The practice, however, of exhibiting a little castor oil about noon of each day, is unobjectionable, and may bo useful, as the turpentine never purges the patients. The narcotic effects produced by turpentine on tanics and other worms may be judged of by the fact, ^ascertained by several experiments,) that when one drachm only has been taken, and the patient has declined continuing its use, an immediate stop is put to the secretion of separate joints by the tcBuia; the vigour of the worm is destroyed; it sickens, and in proportion to its unhealthy state, does the patient regain his health and strength. Should the turpentine not be repeated, the worm recovers slowly, and after the lapse of an uncertain period, (two or three weeks,) the usual secretion of joints recommences. A Targe dose of spirits of turpentine, (from four to eight drachms,) produced in many patients unpleasant symptoms, such as intense headach, vertigo, and a confusion of ideas, amounting to temporary delirium. Neither wine nor spirits should be drank during the use of turpentine, lest strangury be produced, tood ought to be avoided on the mornings of using the medi- cine, nor should any be taken in the evening. The turpentine lias been found most rapid in its effects, when taken about 8 or 9 A.M. Oil of turpentine has been used with success in cases of tcenia on the Continent, and more particularly in Germany, for at least fifty years. To it the celebrated preparation of Chabert owes its remarkable efficacy. Ascarides vermiculares are easily expelled by the same drug; and it is probable that no intestinal worm will remain in the intestines, if the system be kept under the influence of oil of turpentine for a few days. Many alarming symptoms have been known to arise from the presence of worms in the intestinal canal, particularly nervous disorders, as epilepsy and convulsions. It is not improbable that chorea may often depend on the presence of worms in the intestines, and its removal by the continued use of purgative medicines would seem to confirm this conjecture. I have seen a high degree of nervousness existing in many patients affected with worms, and have found that this nervous state disappeared with the removal of the exciting cause. March 16, 1821.