Observations on the Tania Solium. 13 altered by residing in the human intestines, for the secretion of the tail joint can hardly be considered as a natural process. A change of localities is observed to exert a certain though limited influence even over man and the class mammalia ; but over animals of obscure vitality, and over the vegetable world, (to which entozoa bear close resemblance, the power of external agents knows no limits. By a change in their place of abode, by the slightest change of climate, or culture, they not unfre- quently become so remarkably different from their original or parent stock, as with difficulty to be recognized. Hence it probably happens that the tcenia has never been detected but in the intestines of man and other animals. Intestinal worms infest graminivorous quadrupeds, and parti- cularly the horse. They appear generally during winter, and quit him as soon as he is permitted to regain his flesh and strength on the spring pastures. * The presence of worms in the intestinal canal of man maybe suspected when a few of the symptoms already enumerated are present; nor ought the prac- titioner to doubt the correctness of his diagnostic, on finding that a few doses of a purgative medicine do not bring off worms by stool. The Tcenia Solium will betray its presence in the intestines by the separation and discharge of distinct joints. When other varieties of tcBnia are suspected, the patient ought to have recourse to anthelmintics. The dyspnoea occasioned by the Tcenia Solium is a remarkable symptom, and may in some cases lead to an early detection of the complaint; but the superabundant secretion of saliva is connected with many disorders of the frame, and cannot be deemed a test either of the presence of worms, or of the recent use of mercury, but rather as a symptom of general bad health. A variety of drugs and methods have been recommended for the expulsion of tcenice and other entozoa from the intestines of man ; these may be reduced to three heads. \st. Mechanical remedies, as pulvis stanni; large doses of aloes taken in the form of pill, (which have been known to expel tcenioB from the intestines,) probably act in the same way. This method sometimes succeeds, but is exceedingly uncertain* 2dly. Drastic purgative medicines which occasionally are found successful in expelling the tcenia, but whose operation is attended with disagreeable symptoms, and not unfrequently irreparable injury to the constitution. Milder purgatives are often exhibited, preceded by hitters and aromatics. Mhj, Anthelmintics or drugs which destroy intestinal worms, * When young sweet grass cannot be obtained, the worms are generally expelled by a dose or two of melted fat, taken from the tail of the Cape sheep.