28 Observations on the His experiments on the state of the respiratory organs aftef exercise—after the taking of spirituous liquors—during a mer-' curial course*—in short, after every thing which could excite the circulation, shew this in a decided manner. These experi- ments, liowever, require repetition. Many of them are too scanty to enable us to draw any cel"tain conclusion from them, whilst others are contrary to all analogy. The opinions contained in the excellent essay of Dr Prout do not seem to invalidate the conclusions which I have ventured to draw from my experiments : they amount to this — that all the functions, or at least many of them, are more vigorous in the morning than in the evening; that their capability for action is certainly greater; and that this increase in the functions com- mences at a much earlier hour than is generally imagined. Were it lawful for me to speculate, in this experimental age, I would venture to support an opinion, at present, I allow, some- what antiquated, and very U7ifashionable, that early rising may be conducive to long life, as it most certainly is to the perfect enjo)'ment of all our faculties. It was from repeated violations of all these dietetic maxims that I first perceived their im- portance ; perhaps by a similar experience alone can others be convinced of their value. Before concluding this section, it is my duty to observe, that on mentioning the results of some of these experiments to a medical friend, he assured me that experiments, performed by him about ten years ago, led to conclusions which were, in his opinion, extremely similar to mine. This circumstance, he observed, was very satisfactory to him, as my experiments had been performed, and my conclusions drawn, without any com- munication of ideas: it will be equally so to me, if I find the results exactly to correspond, — results of experiments performed by individuals so opposite in habits, temperament, and opinions. Section II. ' In this section we propose considering the effects of muscular motion on the pulsations of the heart and arteries. In what manner these pulsations are augmented in number, vigour, ful- ness, &c. by exercise, or, to speak more generally and correctly, by muscular motion, it is perhaps impossible, in the present state of our knowledge, to say. It seems, however, probable, that far- ther research may shortly lead to notions more precise than the • Dissertatio de Copia Acidi Carbonic!, &c. Andrea Fyfe auctore, jEdin. 1814.