Observations on the Tania Solium. li \nay be observed, that the repeated errors committed by microscopical observers have brought this mode of observing natural phenomena into a certain degree of disrepute. The indefinite nature of the theory supported by late vi^riters, that entozoa are generated within the viscera of man by a process our food undergoes when not properly digested, has retarded the advancement of knowledge relative to these animals. It has done worse : it has prevented minute inquiry into the immediate exciting cause of intestinal worms, into the particular article of food which more immediately produces them ; and it has spread widely a few vague notions, that unwholesome coarse food, whether animal or vegetable, when introduced into a weakened stomach, will at all times give rise to the disease of worms. It seems of importance, therefore, to reduce the subject to a few determinate points, and, by subjecting the inquiry to a stricter analysis, enable succeeding observers readily to prove or confute the existing theory. It may, I think, be admitted, that intestinal worms (or the matter capable of producing them) can be introduced into the viscera of man and other animals only with the food or drink. That they do not arise from the latter, may be conjectured from the following fact, that individuals using, for a series of years, water drawn from the same sources, have not been afflicted with taenia or other worms ; nor did these appear until other causes, to which, with more probability, they might be referred, were also present. The cases of tcenia detailed in the commencement of this paper, occurred in a body of active healthy young men, subjected to the same discipline and privations, and using, with few or no exceptions, the same sort of food and drink. These circum- stances merit peculiarly the notice of the professional reader, as it seldom happens that an experiment (for such it seems to me) can be made so extensively in civil life, where the habits of no two individuals resemble each other, — where the food and exercise of the sick are submitted to no precise rules, — and the dissimilarity in age, constitution, and previous habits of life, renders all general conclusions necessarily incorrect. In men situated as our troops were in this short campai<^n, we must look to some general exciting cause of disease, the explanations hitherto offered of individual cases being totally inapplicable. The food of these men (for to it we must ulti- mately refer the disease) consisted of unwholesome meat, the flesh of overdriven, starved, jlhd unhealthy oxen, reduced often to a mere skeleton, by fatigue, want of food, and exposure to the cold rains, which are observed to sicken and destroy most of the horned cattle and sheep which have not preserved their