.6 Observations on the Teenia Solium. .which may be reckoned the occasional prevalence of tape-worm. It was long ago remarked by Dr Sparrman, that the colonists, or more particularly those inhabiting the banks of the great Fish River, " had very little knowledge of one of the most frequent and most troublesome disorders to which they were subject, and that was worms."* He observes, moreover, " that adults, and even elderly persons, seemed more generally troubled with the complaint than children." This so great frequency of the disease amongst the colonists I have never observed, nor was my attention directed towards this subject, previous to October, 1819, when tape-worm became so general amongst the troops as to resemble an epidemic. The greater part of these .men had just returned from a short though active campaign of a few weeks ; they had been exposed to some rainy weather, and had remained for a short time encamped on the open field ; yet these circumstances were productive of no sickness, nor did any ailment occur, excepting the singular prevalence of intestinal worms, and more particularly of Teenia Solium. There are a few general observations which it may be useful to mention, previous to entering on the more detailed account of cases and remarks. The disease was not confined to any particular class or rank; intestinal worms, of one or other species, attacked as well those enjoying every possible comfort, as those exposed to all privations ; they spared neither the young nor old, temperate nor debauched, male nor female. Of the troops employed on the eastern bank of the great Fish River, the proportion of those who became affected with worms, to those who escaped this troublesome complaint, appeared to me about two to five; the ratio of those who remained in the colony differed from the preceding, and probably did not exceed one to four. The Teenia Solium and other worms, more especially Ascarides lumbricoides, appeared, Jbr the first time, in most of the individuals attacked ; they were almost all, without exception, healthy young men, accustomed to much exercise, constant discipline, and regular habits. The greater number of the individuals affected could not remember ever having passed worms, even from their earliest infancy to the period of their attack in 1819. Intestinal worms were passed at this time by men who had lived several years in the colony, and who had not previously been afflicted with them. In one case the gentleman had been nine years in the colony before the attack of the disease. I " Sparrman's Travels, vol. ii. p. I27.