Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 27 regards the pulse; but the phenomenon is occasioned by this, that all the organs are less powerful, less capable of exertion; in short, less able to perform their functions, or undergo fatigue. A remark made by CuUen also illustrates, in some degree, the doctrine I have brought forward: " It is indeed to be observed, that in almost every person the taking of food occa- sions some degree of fever; but I am persuaded this would not appear so considerable in a hectic, were it not that an exacerbation of fever is present from another cause ; and accord- ingly, the taking of food in the morning has hardly any sensible effect." Here we see what so seldom happens, all the facts throwing light on the doctrine, and it on them ; for although the morning be the time when the action of food over the pulse is greatest, yet is there no febrile state excited. On the contrary, in the evening, as Cullen has remarked, a febrile paroxysm occurs in hectic, independent of food, aggravated perhaps by its presence, but whose real cause has totally escaped him. 9. Nor does this law seem confined to the functions of the brain, stomach, muscular, and arterial systems,—it extends, if 1 mistake not, to that of the lungs. Dr Prout found, " that the quantity of carbonic acid gas, formed during respiration, is not uniformly the same during the twenty-four hours, but is always greater at one and the same part of the day than at any other, that is to say, its maximum occurs between 10 a. m. and 2 P.M., or generally between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; and its minimum commences about half-past 8 p. M., and continues nearly uniform till about half-past, 3 a. m*"* The same gentle- man observes, that the quantity of carbonic acid given off" during respiration, bears no proportion to the numerical state of the pulse; in fact, he imagines that most carbonic acid is given out when the pulse is least frequent. My own experiments un- doubtedly disprove this idea. The greatest quantity of acid, according to Dr Prout, was given off during the forenoon, when the pulse is, in general, higher, and always more easily excited by any exertion; we may almost say, that the capabilities of the arterial system are at that time greater; and the importance of this remark, as it regards secretions, must be obvious. Besides, from what I can judge of the tables given by Dr Prout, they refer principally to the afternoon and evening, unless some of the tables be wrong marked. Notwithstanding this, I am much inclined to agree with him in this, that the quantity of carbonic acid given off during respiration is not particularly connected with, at all events not dependent on, the state of the circulation. • Annals of Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 330.