ObservatioJis on the Tcenia Solium. CASES AND OBSERVATIONS. Case I. — Of a detachment consisting of about 86 men, 38 «were found, on inquiry, to be affected with worms; of this -number, two had the Ascarides lumbricoides, and the remainder TcBnia Solium. The detachment was composed of young 'healthy men, previous to the appearance of the worms. Those affected became, generall}' speaking, emaciated and weak, low- spirited, pale, and unhealth3% They laboured under other symptoms, which will be more particularly described in a future case. The cure of all who chose to adopt the means was easily effected by small doses of the spirits of turpentine, after the failure of purgatives and various other remedies. Case II One of the above mentioned detachment, whose name I think was Gardiner, had resorted to a variety of methods in order to rid himself of so troublesome a complaint, Jbut ineffectually. He had restricted himself entirely to a milk diet for about three weeks, with the efltect of arresting the growth of the tcenia, as few or none of the detached joints appeared in his stools during the continuance of this regimen; they reappeared immediately on his returning to the use of animal food. The spirits of turpentine were prescribed for him, in the dose of two drachms morning and evening. He, almost immediately after, voided by stool a portion of a t&nia, consist- ing of about 240 distinct joints, each about three-fourths of an inch in length ; the unpleasant harassing symptoms which gene- rally accompany the presence of tcBnia in the human body immediately left him, and did not return. Case III,—A middle-aged man (a half-pay officer) had been affected with tcenia for eight years, during which long period, an incredible quantity of drugs had been prescribed for the complaint, and taken without any permanent advantage. He had been under the care of several medical men, and his consti- tution was greatly impaired. During these eight years, he had been in the constant habit of passing detached joints of the Tcenia Solivm by stool^ in great quantities, and his existence had become, in consequence of this and other complaints, truly miserable. Two drachms of spirits of turpentine in a little water were taken twice a-day, for four successive days. Pie now passed the tcenia in large connected masses ; the symptoms of disease disappeared, and his health returned. Case IV In this case, also an officer, the tcenia appeared suddenly, whilst the individual enjoyed perfect health. He had never passed any worms previous to the present attack. The symptoms, as in most others, were acute headach, dyspnoea, detixl breath, grinding of the teeth, constant itching of the