Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 29 ones we at present possess. Our concern is with the fact itself; viz. that, by muscular action, the pulsations of the heart and arteries are augmented in power, velocity, &c. This fact, appa- rently so unproductive, and, by reason of its perpetual occur- rence, so little apt to excite attention, shall yet, on examination, be found to throw some light on the physiology of the human body, and may perhaps assist in exonerating it from a charge so lavishly and inconsiderately bestowed,—that it is a science destitute of fixed principles; or, at least, that a knowledge of the laws by which the animal economy is regulated, is, in a great measure, placed beyond the sphere of human intellect. At all times it must have been observed, that muscular exer- tion, almost of any kind, but more especially violent exercise, increased greatly the powers of the heart and arterial system ; but that this extended even to the slightest muscular motion, such, for example, as is made use of during a change of posture, does not appear to have been suspected, or if so, its importance has been greatly overlooked. We may reduce the section to the following heads: \mo. The most powerful stimulant which can be applied, in order to increase the action of the heart, is exercise. Walking at the rate of four miles an hour, requires at least a pulse equal to 132 per minute ; and the time of the day, and the continuance of the exertion, less affect the rate of pulsation than one would a piiori imagine. When I say, that walking at such a rate requires a certain increase in the arterial pulsations, I do not mean to assert, that an equal increase must necessarily occur in every individual. These numbers are added only to render the subject more definite ; in short, as a single example, — as a proof that the increase is great, even in the strong and healthy. We shall immediately see how very differently the debilitated are affected. This high excitement is not followed by propor- tional exhaustion, in so far as regards the arterial system ; a fact singular enough, since it is at variance with certain laws of the economy, supposed to rest on a secure foundation. Of-her organs certainly follow a different mode, and exhibit, after any increase in their functions, signs of exhaustion or weakened energy. Such a law seems to hold with regard to the nervous system, in particular with the digestive organs and the respiratory.* '■Ido, No stimulant which I have hitherto tried, has excited the pulse so much even as moderate exercise. Zlio, Various observations have rendered it probable, that the increase in the number of the arterial pulsations accompanying * Annals of Philosophy for November, 1813, p. 328.