24 Observalions on the with any circumstance, to the influence of which I might ascribe- it. Experiment shewed me that no previous exhaustion from labour, excess in food, drink, &c. rendered the diurnal diminu- tion of the pulsations more evident than usual; the want of food, perhaps, hastens and increases it, but certainly does not prevent or retard it. Neither is sleep the cause of the restoration of the susceptibilities and velocity of the morning pulse, since the negation of that does not at all destroy the excitabilUy * of the sanguiferous systemy as manifested by the application of the accustomed stimulants. August 30th, 1813, the day being moderately warm, I walked, between 1 and 11, p.m. a distance of nearly forty miles. Not having much appetite, retired to rest about 1, a.m. after drink- ing a little coffee, but slept none, perhaps owing to over-fatigue. Next morning (31st) about 7, my pulse was 80, and rather feeble ; after breakfast, before which I took a small glassful of spirits, my pulse rose to 104. I was not feverish, and per- formed a journey that day of twenty-seven miles, at a tolerable pace. To what, then, are we to attribute this daily diminution of velocity in the functions of the sanguiferous system ? Its exist- ence as a law of the sanguiferous system has been demonstrated experimentally; and I shall endeavour to shew, that a similar revolution daily takes place in several other functions of the human frame. To this conclusion Dr Cullen arrived, merely from observing the daily returns of sleep and watching, of appetites and excretions, and the changes which regularly occur in the state of the pulse. Of these changes he had, however, no clear ideas. When he proceeds to combine this diurnal revolution with the phenomena of fever, he unquestionably offers a conjecture, extremely probable, ingenious, and perhaps original; but unfortunately there results from this fine idea, nothing but conjecture and hypothesis, attributable principally to an incorrectness in the observance of the phenomena. 8. It required fevv experiments to convince me, that animal food raised the pulse much more than vegetable ; the excitation of the pulse by wine is still greater, and that from spirituous liquors greatest of all. By these circumstances, but more espe- cially by diet, the regularity in the diurnal revolution in the pulse, is, as might have been anticipated, much disturbed. But it was impossible to perform these experiments without remarking, that something similar happened to various other fiinctions. Thus, beyond all doubt, our perceptions in the- • 1 use this word merely to avoid circumlocution.