8 Observations on the Taenia Solium. nostrils, stiffness of the lovver jaw, sensation of pain in the tem- poral muscles, increased flow of saliva, sickness and pain of stomach, pains in the chest and bowels, slight tenesmus, pale- ness, general debility, emaciation. The complaint was observed to be much aggravated by the use.of animal food, and a vegfct- able diet was found effectual in repressing the growth of the tcenia, but did not succeed in removing the disease. A powerful dose of jalap and calomel was prescribed, with the view of expelling, at least, the detached joints of the tcenia, if not the worm itself. It proved useless in either way, for it neither expelled the worm entire, nor any of its detached joints. The cure was finally effected by the spirits of turpentine. It would be tedious to enumerate more of the cases which occurred, as they bear to each other so close a resemblance; but there are circumstances regarding the action of the remedy employed, and the exciting cause of the complaint, which merit minute discussion. It has been generally allowed by medical writers, that there is scarcely any part of medical science more obscure than the origin of intestinal worms. The works of the ancients contain no accurate observations on this interesting point, and the labours of later authors tended only for some time to involve the subject more and more in obscurity and error. Much was to be expected from the exertions of the natural historian, and from the aid of the microscope in the hands of men of science, accustomed to habits of correct observation, and to the impartial investigation of nature. This class of men has done much towards elucidating the nature of intestinal worms, or, speaking more generally, of entozoa, the name by which worms living within other animal bodies are distinguished. But great diffi- culties remain to be overcome, and the opinions maintained by the most accurate writer on this subject, (Rudolphi,) appear to me quite untenable. A simple enumeration of the various causes which have been assigned for the production of intestinal and other worms, would convince an impartial reader, that such were inadequate to produce the effect, and were supported by men who did not give credit to their own doctrines. The extreme difficulty attending such investigations will be made manifest by remark- ing, that the so justly celebrated Linne entertained notions regarding the origin, habits, and growth of tania, which Pallas and Rudolphi have since proved to be entirely erroneous. It is unnecessary here to discuss the opinions of a host of writers so ably combated and refuted by these authors. It seems pre- ferable rather to inquire into the causes which gave rise to