Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. 21 beati;ig was constantly to be felt in the region of the heart, and she was sometimes convulsed ; muscular debility great. At her death she measured three feet four inches. The body continued Warm for five hours after death. DISSECTION. 1. External appearances. The countenance, feet, and body, were not all discoloured ; the arms and fingers retained their usual dark colour. 2. Thorax. The lungs seemed sound, though dark-coloured ; heart perhaps larger than usual; foramen ovale pervious, and pretty large. The aorta arose from both ventricles in such a manner, that the ventricles communicated with each other, and with the cavity of the vessel, which was much enlarged ; its vasa vasormn distended with red blood. From the right ven- tricle there arose a pulmonary artery, very small in its diameter, (perhaps the size of a small goose quill) and feeble in its coats; it possessed all the characters of the artery, such as its valves and division into two branches. Not the smallest vestige of a ductus arteriosus; it seemed never to have existed. The passage from the left ventricle into the artery, common to both, was more direct than that from the right. Every where the arteries were full of dark blood, not coagulated. 3. The abdominal viscera were of a very dark colour. The head was not examined. Before leaving the house, the father of the child related to us a circumstance to which we all paid particular attention. The child, he informed us, had always been very fretful and peevish, (perhaps from indulgence,) and apt to have frightful paroxysms when spoken to harshly ; but these happened much more fre- quently in the morning; indeed, he observed that she was always ill in the early part of the day; so much so, that the smallest exertion, an angry word, or even a cup of tea, would instantly bring on a paroxysm, each time threatening destruc- tion. This tendency to these fits decreased from morning till about 5, P.M., from which time she generally continued well till bed-time. The father detailed this with great minuteness, and seemed to wish for an explanation. It will be easy to anticipate to what cause I would ascribe this increase of disorder in the circulation during the forenoon. So disproportionate was the pulmonary artery to the aorta, it was with difficulty that life could be carried on ; but, in the morning, when the susceptibility of the arterial system was