Observations on tiic Tcenia Solium. 40 £ity were afflicted with tbeni. Moisture, therefore, can liave little effect in the production of tamia. Neither can a vegetable diet be blamed for its production, since many months had elapsed during which vegetables, bread excepted, formed no part of the diet of any of the ijidividuals alluded to in the preceding cases. As tania and other worms are occasionally found in fish, some writers have asserted that they are thus transferred to the human frame. The observations of naturalists have shewn, that the tccn'm observed in fish and man differ essentially ; and in addition, it may be remarked, that of the hundreds whom I have known to be affected with tcenia, none had tasted fish for the period of at least six months previous to the appearance of the worms, and many not for years. It remains, therefore, to be explained, how so many, young, healthy, active men, became suddenly affected with tcenia, for assuredly no theory hitherto offered on the subject of intestinal worms throws any light on their origin in tlie present instance. From the disturbance worms generally create in the human frame, we should be inclined to adopt the conclusion, very different from that of preceding writers, arPd forming almost an exact counterpart, namely, " That intestinal worms are not natural to man." This opinion is confirmed by the constant efforts nature makes to throw off the disease, — efforts more or less obvious in different individuals, but perhaps existing in all. The Filaria medinensis has been classed with the entozoa, though several writers allow that it naturally exists in the wells and rivers of warm countries. Intestinal worms are introduced into the human frame mixed with the food or drink, and, finding in the intestines an apt place for their existence, they there live and thrive ; but the}- do not arise from a weak and injured digestion, and a con- sequent combination of matter capable of converting itself into intestinal worms.* Were we satisfied with such explanations, the origin of man, and all other animals, would be readily accounted for, from " a peculiar arrangement and combination of organic molecules placed under peculiar circumstances;" the story of the serpent Pytlion would be no longer a fable. Perhaps the strongest objection hitherto offered to the opinion, that entozoa are not generated within the bodies of man and other animals, but are transferred to them through the medium of the higesta, arises from the fact, well ascertained, that intestinal and other worms have nowhere been found excepting within the viscera of other animals. But to this it * " Dissimilatio vermes gignit. " Vermes ex dissimilntionis proeessu in corpora animali debilitato .■obtiiicnte oriri statuit " RuDOLrn.i-