16 Observations on the as regards muscular exertion, diet, &c. This knowledge, how- ever, I found was not to be attained in a short time, nor without considerable labour. Contrary to my expectations, that which I deemed of minor importance, or merely preparatory to other researches, became an extended subject of inquiry. Whilst conducting the experiments about to be related, I have often almost despaired of reducing to general laws the endless variety which the functions of the animal economy pre- sent to every observer. But remarking, amidst this seemingly inextricable confusion, a certain degree of regularity, I was induced and encouraged to prosecute the inquiry, convinced that we ought never to disregard those signs of order which nature manifests, whether they regard animate or inanimate beings. It is almost needless for me to observe, that every precaution has been taken to avoid error. If, throughout the essay, this desirable object be attained, it is principally attributable to the assistance of my friend Dr James Thomson, continued with unremitting zeal and friendship, during a course of experiments both tedious and delicate.* Section I. \st, When we recollect that it is during the course of the day that all those circumstances, which tend to accelerate the pulse, are generally combined and present, the proposition that the morning pulse of a person enjoying health is quicker than the evening one, must seem almost a paradox; at all events, so hostile to what appears probable or plausible, that the clearest evidence of its truth must be brought forward before we could expect to gain a single proselyte to this opinion. In detailing the results of my observations and experiments on this subject, a certain degree of licence is necessarily made use of> which, however, does not at all affect the conclusions I have drawn. In these experiments, it is not proposed to submit the functions of the body to rigorous calculation. In physiology, as well as in medicine, a near approximation to the truth is the only rational end we can possibly propose. Numbers are used, both because they render our ideas more precise, and cause to • The subject of the experiments is about 22 years of age, of a moderate height, and somewhat muscular; his constitution may be called irritable,— by which is meant only, that it is easily excited by stimulants of almost every kind. He has not laboured under any serious indisposition for a great number of years, nor is he conscious of any hereditary or acquired tendency to disease in any organ.