22 Observations on the gi-eater, the inequality must also have been increased to such a degree as almost to have destroyed life. I may also remark that she died about 9, a.m. 3. To be convinced that an opinion, very different from that now brought forward, is the one more generally received, we have only to turn to the writings of a few celebrated physiolo- gists. Thus, for example, in the " Physiologic Positive" of Fodere, a work of merit, we find the following remarkable pas- sage :—" Relativement a la difference du jour et de la nuit, on remarque que le pouls de I'homme adulte bat de 60 a 65 fois par minute, au commencement du jour, et qu'il va continuellement en augmentant jusqu'a battre 80 fois dans le meme temps, chez les plus excitables, sur la fin de la journee ; dans la nuit, les pulsations diminuent de nouveau, jusqu'au matin, oii elles se trouvent revenues insensiblement au nombre de 60 a 65."* In order to have an approximation to the truth, we have only to reverse the above statement. If we regard as accidental cir- cumstances the accelerations of the pulse, occasioned at various times by our diet, and that, too, according to the caprice of the individual, the pulse shall be found gradually to diminish in velocity from an early hour until midnight, and generally later. This difference I have found to be great in winter, but less, though still existing, in summer, as the above experiments, erformed during that period, sufBciently prove ; and from this am inclined to believe, that heat has no inconsiderable share in the production of the phenomenon, though totally inadequate solely to produce it. This gradual excitation in the number of the pulsations Fodere conceives to be owing to the combined effects of exercise, of the action of the internal and external senses, of light, heat, purer air, &c. Violent exercise towards evening will certainly produce a considerable excitation of the pulse, but less than what takes place in the morning, in conse- quence of the same degree of exercise ; neither will any degree of heat, nor quantity of food, raise the pulse in the evening to the height at which it is in the morning, almost without any such excitants, provided they be not used in an immoderate degree.f Thus, after fasting till 8, p. m. I found my pulse to be 58 ; at 9, p, M. after eating a moderate dinner, pulse 58. The common mode of experimenting with unequal quantities of food, taken at various hours of the day and night, was evi- • Essai de Physiologie Positive, Tom. i. p. 190. f In experimenting on this point, care must be taken that the acceleration of the pulse, occasioned by indigestion, be not confounded with the natural bealtby pulse, produced by the simple stimulation of the food.