30 Observations on the muscular motion, is greatly influenced by the debility or weak- ness of the individual. Were it allowable to apply the rigorous language of calculation to a science which cannot be called exact, we would say that such increase is in the direct ratio of that debility. Hence, in fever, the sligljtest change of posture shall often produce an incredible velocity of pulse. Persons who have suffered much from loss of blood, or by chronic complaints, cannot bear the erect posture for any length of time ; and hence, in the debilitated, who, it is well known, are very subject to faintings, the slightest muscular motion, by inducing or necessi- tating a rapid motion of the blood, (in them too rapid,) shall give rise to that distressing accident. As exercise increases, so other stimulants diminish the fre- quency of the pulse in the debilitated, at least generally. But as there may be various kinds of debility, in each of which the pulse maybe differently affected by exercise, and as this increase of the pulse, when it does take place, is often accompanied with irregularity, a very extensive series of experiments is required, before we can Implicitly agree with the above rule. On this latter principle, even in its present state, we may explain, I think, satisfactorily, many of the supposed stimulant effects of foxglove, which drug debilitates, directly and greatly, most systems of the animal economy. Ato, The time of the day has a very considerable effect on the augmentation of the arterial pulsations by moderate exercise. As this relation has already been considered at some length, I shall here confine myself to the statement of a few general results. During the morning, the mere change of posture from the horizontal to the erect, shall increase the pulse by about 15 or 20 beats. At mid-day, this Increase shall be 10 ; and. In the evening, 4 or 6. The effects produced by the sitting posture, assumed after the horizontal, are not half so considerable as those occasioned by the erect posture. The above is the manner In which the arterial pulsations are affected by posture, at different periods of the day; and though the results here stated may be greatly magnified in some, and equally diminished in others. It may, I think, be laid down as a general rule, that similar laws constantly regulate the healthy puJse. From the above observation, we readily perceive, of how little consequence the details of physicians are, regarding the diseased pulse. If the slightest change of posture can In an instant excite the pulse by 50 or 60 beats, how easily may the medical man deceive himself and others ! how often, without a previous know- ledge of these facts, may drugs seem to benefit the sick, when they are Inert, or actually pernicious.