Observations on the Taenia Solium. 9 intestinal worms, in so great a number of otherwise healthy individuals, — an inquiry fraught with interest to the medical practitioner ; since next to the removing disease when present, the most important subject for investigation is its exciting cause. The best authors have remarked, that, for the production of intestinal worms, a certain predisposition of the body is neces- sary, which foreign writers call a " diathesis verminosa" and sometimes a " dispositio verminosa corporis." This they describe as originating in scanty, unwholesome vegetable diet, and hence the frequency of intestinal worms amongst the poor; but they also assert, that debility, from whatever cause arising, may give origin to the same complaints. In confirmation of these opinions, they remark, that the inhabitants of low marshy countries, as Holland, are more subject than others to intestinal worms. All preceding theories having been disproved by minute microsco- pical inquiry, naturalists have admitted the preceding statements, and explained the generation of worms in the human body, by a process totally dissimilar to what is known to take place in the production of all other animals, and somewhat resembling the growth of mushrooms, from a compost employed for that express purpose. Nor do the careful expressions of Rudolphi diminish the difficulty, or explain away the absurdities attending the admission of such an hypothesis. " Organic particles," he observes, " are required for the production of entozoa, in the same manner as we find the classes of animals called infusoria, and phytozoa, and some fungi, are produced." In parts, he farther observes, which have been organized, {jpartibus organicis,^ as well animal as vegetable, and which have been macerated in water for some time, innumerable animalcules called infusoria are known to arise, and to be produced by a process not unlike putrefaction. It is with diffidence that I offer, in opposition to the opinions of such accurate observers of nature, the following objections : Debility presents itself to the medical practitioner daily in a hundred forms, without being accompanied by intestinal or other worms. On the contrary, these appear in the strongest constitutions, particularly exemplified by the cases detailed at the commencement of these remarks. The individuals alluded to were, with few exceptions, young, healthy, active men. The climate of the Cape is remarkably dry, forming, as it were, the counterpart^f Holland; and Hasselquist* says of Egypt, that the inhabitants are much afflicted with tape-worm, a practitioner in Cairo assuring him, that two-thirds of the inhabitants of that ♦ lliissclqiiist's Voyages and Travels, p. 386.