Observations on tlie 26 * Sinclair's Code of Health, vol. ii. p. 104. f Ibid. p. 94. milk-pottage. Again,* two meals a-day, viz. at 8 a. m. and 5 p. M. But these hours are rather later than the ones laid down by Jackson, who says,t " they breakfast upon meat about 8 o'clock, and dine at 2. Suppers are not recommended, but they may take a biscuit and a little cold water about 8 o'clock (I never heard of a more moderate supper,) two hours before they go to bed." The object kept in view during the training, is to enable the human frame to acquire the utmost degree of vigour consistent with health. To accomplish this, they employ the organs at the time when they ought to be employed, that is, during the early part of the day. " The exercise is always begun early in the morning, in summer at five; in winter at half-past six, or as soon as it is light. We prefer rising early in the morning, indeed it is indispensable." Strictly speaking, this increase in the functions of the body, may be more properly called an augmentation and diurnal revolution in the functions of the nervous system. But this is too indefinite a term ; no two individuals attaching precisely the game meaning to it; and we shall therefore consider the above facts, brought forward by Mr Jackson, as proofs of an increase in the powers of the muscular system, without offering any conjecture on what that peculiarly depends; whether it be connected with increased energy of the brain, or be totally independent of it. I shall close this part with a single additional observation. It is this: The regular decrease in the powers of the stomach is not dependent on any previous exertion of that organ, for I have found that a dinner taken at a late hour, with or without pre- vious exhaustion, was always digested painfully and laboriously, with feverish nights, distressing dreams, and, instead of refresh- ment, farther exhaustion. This arises not from the food stimu- lating at that time the system more powerfully than in the morning. If we may judge from the pulse, it stimulates the body much less at midnight than at nine in the morning; but it arises from this, that the powers of the stomach are more languid; it does not digest the food taken into it; and should a feverish night follow, it is neither wonderful nor inexplicable. Hence we see the propriety of no function being much employed during the evening; not because it will greatly excite the pulse, and so produce fever (ridiculous idea! the excitation of the pulse does not produce or constitute fever); on the contrary, the stimulation is actually less, it is almost as nothing, so far aa