Observations on the 20 effects which moderate exercise in the morning would produce on the pulse, reckoned, however, in such a manner as not to be immediately affected by it. A walk of three miles before breakfast. Pulse after breakfast. 74 81 80 83 80 78 Average 79.33. TABLES Pulse after dinner, as usual. 76 78 75 78 75 74 Average 76 Pulse after suppar, as usual. 62 62 62 64 66 64 Average, 63.3 &c. 3. My experiments have not yet enabled me to ascertain, with precision, the hour when the pulse begins not only to be actually more rapid, but also to acquire a greater capability for action, manifested by the exhibition of any stimulant. This, with myself, perhaps takes place about 3 A. M.; but there is every reason to believe that the time varies with the individual, the season, climate, and perhaps, though this for many reasons is improbable, with the mode of life. 4. This increased capability for action, occurring regularly in the morning, is even of greater importance than the actual state of the circulation ; the former may be made the subject of very delicate experiments; the latter we know to be exposed to a thousand variations, from causes which have been in part de- veloped. While experimenting on this subject, there occurred to me a case, altogether of so interesting a nature, that I cannot refrain from giving it in detail. It affords a remarkable proof of the truth of the doctrines brought forward in this essay ; at the same time, independent of this consideration, from the rarity of its occurrence, it appears to be worthy of record. M. C. aged 4. The account we received from the parents of this child was, that she continued in good health until about six months after birth, when a blueness of the surface was remarked, particularly on any exertion, and accompanied with perpetual difficulty of breathing. In this state she continued to grow, and became remarkably tall of her age. She was observed, however, to get daily worse; that is, the paroxysms of threatened suffocation became more frequent, during which the whole surface of her body appeared almost black. A strong