Diurnal Bevolutions of the Pulse. 17 be distinctly perceived the limits to which we should wish to extend these doctrines. The variation in different individuals inust necessarily be immense;—for that the candid will make proper allowance. Dr Gullen (whose name is not merely celebrated, but vene- rated in medical science) talked of a natural accelei^tion of the pulse, which, according to him, happens twice a-day, and resembles, in a distant manner, a febrile paroxysm. Now, amidst many hundred experiments, performed under a great variety of circumstances, I could never perceive any such phe- nomenon. The time of the day at which the first spontaneous acceleration is supposed to happen, is noon. My own pulse never shewed any symptoms of such acceleration, but, on the contrary, always diminished in velocity. Thus, Ex. 11, A.M. . . Pulse 72 12, noon, .... 71 1, P.M. ... 63 Half past 1, P.M. . . 64 The other paroxysm, according to the same author, occurs in the afternoon, and that, too, totally independent of any excite- ment by food, &c. This opinion is equally erroneous with tlie former. Ex. S, p. M. Pulse 68 4, . .66 5, . .64 6, . .62 Ex. Half past 3, p. m. Pulse 67 Half past 4, p. m. 67 5, p. M. . . 64 Half past 5, . .63 6, p. M. ^ . . 63 Half past 6, Pulse 62 7, p. M. . . 62 Half past 7, . .60 8, p. M. . . 58 These experiments are in direct opposition to the statements of CuUen; yet, whoever carefully peruses that author's works, more anxious to discover truth than, by partial views and mis- representations, to detect contradictions, will be convinced that Cullen's notions are partly just and partly erroneous; that delicate and accurate observation is blended throughout with supposition, assertion, and hypothesis. 2d, This quickness of the arterial pulsations, observable in the morning, is at present very generally disbelieved; yet nothing can be more easy than to ascertain the fact experimen- tally. Perhaps the following instances, taken at random from a great number of others, may go far to settle the point. In the