25 Diurnal Revolutions of the Pulse. early part of the day are clearer, our minds more acute, our whole intelligence more active. The functions of the stomach seem also much stronger at this time than towards evening. Feverish, restless nights, are the invariable attendants on late meals, which injure in the ratio of their quantity. I have repeatedly remarked, that digestion went on more easily in the morning than in the evening. Three or four times have I been induced, (sometimes compelled,) whilst following some flivourite sport in the country, to defer the taking food until evening ; a greater or less degree of fever and restlessness, in proportion to the quantity of food taken, has uniformly fol- lowed such indulgence. It was long with me a problem difficult of solution, why digestion should go on laboriously during the evening, when the actions of the muscular system were almost entirely suspended; more especially when I recollected, that the opinions of most, perhaps all physiologists, led us to conclude, that rest greatly favoured the digestion of our food. The objection, that during sleep, in which state the repose of the body is complete, diges- tion, nevertheless, is generally ill performed, seemed at first insurmountable ; and it is not a little remarkable, that those physiologists who have so repeatedly stated the fact, have as constantly failed to note the objection. On observing that practical men expressly stated the necessity of rest for the right performance of the function of digestion, and experiencing daily the truth of the observation, I was convinced that the above objection was rather inexplicable than hostile to the opinions of physiologists, which I tlien, and still do consider as strictly correct. But this phenomenon is no longer difficult of expla- nation, if a daily revolution in the functions of the stomach be demonstrated by experiments, or even rendered probable by analogy. On this subject, the opinion of those, whose profession it is to train men to the performance of great muscular feats, when they speak the truth, is of much more consequence than that! of any medical man. Experience has taught them, that the evening is not a proper time for the digestion of the food; and accordingly we never find any substantial meal taken by theis pupils after 5 p. m. ; indeed they lay it down as a rule, that on going to bed, the stomach should have as little to do as possible. Thus it is recommended * to sup about 9 o'clock on a chicken, or some food that is nourishing, not gross. In another place.f you must retire early to rest, on a supper of runnet-milk, or » Sinclair's Code of Health, vol. ii. p. 1G3. \ Ibid. p. 112.