OUTING HOW TO BOOK No. 4■ Tracks & Tracking By JOSEF BRUNNER Pocket size jx?l in. Completely illustrated. Cloth. $/.zjpostpaid AFTER twenty years of patient study and practical experience, Mr. Brun- ner can, from his intimate know- ledge, speak with authority on this subject. “Tracks and Tracking” shows how to follow intelligently even the most intricate animal or bird tracks It teaches how to interpret tracks of wild game and decipher the many tell-tale signs of the chase that would otherwise pass unnoticed. It proves how it is possible to tell from the foot- prints the name, sex, speed, direction, whether and how wounded, and many other things about wild animals and birds. All material has been gathered first hand; the drawings and half-tones from photographs form an important part of the work, as the author has made faithful pictures of the tracks and signs of the game followed. The list is: The White-Tailed or Virginia Deer. — The Fan-Tailed Dee> The Mule-Deer.— The Wapiti or Elk.—The Moose.— The Mountain Sheep.— The Antelope.— The Bear.— The Cougar — The Lynx.— The Domestic Cat — The Wolf.— The Coyote — The Fox.—The Jack Rabit.— The Varying Hare — The Cottontail Rabbit —The Squirrel.— The Marten and the Black-Footed Fer- ret.— The Otter.— The Mink.— The Ermine.— The Beaver — The Badger.— The Porcupine.— The Skunk. — Feathered Game.— Upland Birds.— Waterfowls —Predatory Birds. This book is invaluable to the novice as well as the experi- enced hunter. J TRACKS and TRACKING •v a a gRUNNE* OUTING HOW TO BOOK No. j. Fishing Kits & Equipment by SA|MUEL G. CAMP Pocket size—fi x inches. Illustrated. Cloth. $i.00 postpaid. A complete guide to the angler buying a new outfit. Every detail of fish- ing kit of the freshwater angler is described, from rod-tip to creel and cloth- ing. Special emphasis is laid on outfitt- ing for fly fishing, but full instruction is is also given to the man who wants to catch pickerel, pike, muskellunge, lake- trout, bass and other fresh-water game fishes. Prices are quoted for all articles recommended and the approved method of selecting and testing the various rods, lines, leaders, etc., is described.