STANDARD COOKERY BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Messrs. SAMPSON LOW, HOSTOH & COMPANY, Limited Continued. 366 MENUS AND 1200 RECIPES OF THE BARON BRISSE Translated by MBS. MATTHEW CLARK SEVENTH EDITION. Crown 8vo, boards, leather back, 3s. 6d. The Menus are in French and English, side by side ; the Recipes are in English. NEW AND CHEAPER EDITION. PRICE 6d.9 POST FREE SALADS and SANDWICHES Giving Particulars how to make some Thousands of Salads and Hundreds of Sandwiches By T. HERBERT. Crown 8vo, Illustrated Boards, Sixpence. LETTERS » a YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER By Mrs. BAYARD TAYLOR. Crown 8vo, cloth, p, " Mrs. Taylor's book is not only useful but readable. It can be read as well as consulted. The British housewife can, if she pleases, take hints and suggestions tending to modify the exceeding monotony of the ordinary 1 bill of fare.' "—Globe. THE ART OF HOUSEKEEPING A BRIDAL GARLAND By Mrs. HAWEIS Author of "Beautiful Houses," " The Art of Beauty," etc.STANDARD COOKERY BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Messrs. SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON & Co., Ltd. THE ROYAL COOKERY BOOK (Le Livre de Cuisine) By JULES GOUFFE Chef de Cuisine of the Paris Jockey Club TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH AND ADAPTED FOR ENGLISH USE By ALPHONSE GOUFFE Head Pastry-Cook to Her Majesty the Queen COMPRISING DOMESTIC AND HIGH-CLASS COOKERY Illustrated with 161 Woodcuts from Drawings from Nature by E. RONJAT. FOURTH EDITION Household Edition, in one handsome volume, 600 pages, super-royal 8vo, cloth, leather back, tos. 6d* Special Edition, cloth, richly gilt, 42s. MARY HARRISON'S GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY NEW AND MUCH CHEAPER COMPLETE EDITION With a Preface by Sir Thomas Dyke Ackland, Bart. Crown 8vo, in strong haff-leather binding, 500 pages, 3s. 6d. Dedicated by Permission to H.R.H. PRINCESS CHRISTIAN MARY HARRISON'S THE SKILFUL COOK New and Cheaper Edition, Crown 8vo. In strong half-leather binding. Over 300 pages. Price 3s. 6d. LONDON: SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON k COMPANY, Limited, St. Dunstan's House, Fetter Lane, E.C.; and all Booksellers.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20386217DAINTY MEALS FOR SMALL HOUSEHOLDSDAINTY MEALS FOR SMALL HOUSEHOLDS A WOULD-BE PRACTICAL HELP TO THOSE INTERESTED IN COOKER Y BY MARGUERITE NINET AUTHOR OF "COOKERY IN A NUTSHELL" LONDON SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON & COMPANY Limited Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, E.G. 1899V WELLCOME IHSllTOtE LSBH'.'-Y Coll. v,'etMOmec Cai; No. I !>(2.QO 18992>efc>icatfon TO MY FRIEND AND HOUSE-MATE, THE PREPARATION OF WHOSE MEALS HAS BEEN A CONSTANT SOURCE OF PLEASURE, I DEDICATE THIS LITTLE BOOK MARGUERITE NINET( I 4 PREFACE In this volume, for which an apology is perhaps necessary, seeing what a large number of culinary works have already been published, I have endeavoured to give some practical hints and carefully-tried recipes which should be especially useful to small or moderate households. It is well known that dinners for three or four persons are often more difficult to arrange than more important meals, and my main object has been to help the worried housewife to a solution of the problem " How can I produce a dainty meal with only this or that in the larder ?" The bulk of the recipes contained in this book have already appeared, in serial form, in the Queen news- paper, and I am indebted to the kindness of the Editor of the same for permission to reproduce them here. MARGUERITE N1NET. Chewton Cottage, West Kensington, March, 1899.CONTENTS PAGE Chapter I. Preliminary i II. Theoretical 8 j, III. Utensils 13 ,, IV. Hints 19 „ V. a. Stocks, b. Soups ..... 26 „ VI. Sauces 51 „ VII. Fish 74 „ VIII. Entrees 109 „ IX. a. Beef. b. Mutton 124 ,, X. a. Veal. b. Pork 139 „ XI. Poultry 158 „ XII. a. Game. b. Venison 167 „ XIII. a. Vegetables, b* Salads . . . .178 ,, XIV. Sweets 210 „ XV. Savouries 225 •„ XVI. a. Coffee (Black, au Zait), Chocolate. b. Chafing Dish Recipes . . .231 Index 237DAINTY MEALS FOR SMALL HOUSEHOLDS -S=$=^. CHAPTER I. PRELIMINARY. Considering the great and interesting variety of culinary suggestions that have been placed before the public of late years, it would seem that further remarks on the subject would be superfluous. But the works, numerous though they be, have not yet quite covered the ground at their disposal; many styles of " cuisine " have been dealt with ; high-class recipes for instance, the ingredients for which are not always within the reach of all, are endless ; savouries, entrees, sauces, vegetarian prepara- tions, &c., have all been so ; Keatedwthat one feels apologetic when attempting to add anym*' g to the same subject. There is, however, more to be learnt, mething that should help to clearly explain what :^ really implied by the well-known term " cuisine bourgeoise," as it is practised in France and on the Continent generally, and which, at the same time, should go far towards remedying the dull, monotonous " plain family *are " so prevalent in the average English household. It is hardly likely, in these days, when so many English people spend their yearly holiday on the Continent, at B2 Dainty Meals for Small Households " pension " prices which they cannot obtain in their own country, that any one will ask where the difference lies ; though, of course, it is difficult during a short sojourn in one locality, to gather a general idea of the whole system off oreign, simple cookery, still the fact remains that the " plain family fare " on the Continent is more in- teresting, more varied, more profitable, and considerably less expensive all round. Without wearying my kind readers with uselessly dull theories, which are tedious to a learner of any age, I want to deal here with the commonplace of practice, and shall only theorize where it is absolutely necessary for the better comprehension of various processes. By the commonplace of practice, I mean the many limitations imposed upon the inexperienced and would-be bold culinary operator, in the way of weights and measures, the necessity of adhering to strict exactitude, in the way of salt, pepper, spices, &c. ; all of which details are so important as to cause the direst failure if they are not followed to the letter ; then, again, there is another common mistake to deal with ; we are all acquainted with those intrepid u artistic souls" who think that they can become painters before they have learnt to draw, or to understand the first principles of perspective. In the same way there are many who buy cookery manuals and then go cheerfully on their own sweet way in the matter of details. This is the main reason for which I must introduce some theoretical points, long experience having taught me that many a hopeful and earnest beginner has just missed being successful, owing to a defective knowledge of the first elements of good cookery, At the same time, it is needless to remark that, even in adhering strictly to details, there are occasions in which sound common-sense must be used, in such cases for instance as halving orPreliminary 3 otherwise lessening ingredients, for small dishes, where the recipe given is obviously intended for a larger number of persons than will be present at the table ; using expensive substances which may be difficult to pro- cure, when another can easily be substituted, and so on. Two mottoes might, by the way, be adopted by those to whom this subject is of interest ; " cleanliness is next to godliness,'' for instance, is a saying which should be facile princeps wherever the handling and preparation of food are concerned. Then the thought expressed by the apt French proverb should also be borne in mind : " il n'y a pas de sot metier, il n'y a que de sottes gens," if it would help us to realize the fact that the art of cookery is quite as important, if not so romantic in its details, as many of the so-called higher branches of learning. It has been said ad infinitum that the peace and comfort as well as the health of the household depend greatly upon the food ; that surely is sufficiently serious a consideration to make even the most poetically inclined assent to the prosaic suggestion that it is imperative that every woman should know something about culinary matters. There are two points which might be looked upon as difficulties in our attempts to introduce foreign element into our modes of cooking ; the first is the difference in the butchers' methods of cutting up the meat, and the second the different culinary utensils in use across the Channel. But these after all are minor details ; the former, though it does alter the appearance of our dishes, would in no wise interfere with the mode of serving them ; whilst the latter can now be remedied at a small cost by investing in suitable kitchen furniture, obtainable from most good English tradesmen. The simplest menu of the real cuisine bourgeoise consists of three or four courses (generally the latter) represented by potage, entree, rot, and entremets ; at a4 Dainty Meals for Small Households restaurant, or on festive occasions, hors d'ceuvre are introduced; this constitutes the daily fare of the middle classes, and therefore of numbers of clerks' families, Government officials, and others, whose incomes in this country would be considered very moderate. This state- ment of mine is not the result of hearsay, but of actual knowledge of the facts of the case. Since many articles of food are both better and cheaper in England than abroad, it should be by no means impossible to bring about such an improvement in average English fare as should raise it to the level of the dainty meals over which our foreign neighbours daily rejoice. It is in the hope of doing something to advance this desirable consummation that I am offering here some practical suggestions which can be carried out by any housewife (however small her establishment) in the following series of recipes. It is often urged by those who have never made any serious attempt to bring a desirable change and variety in their daily dishes, that the cuisine bourgeoise only consists of a collection of small dishes generally made from cold remains, not very nourishing, and that " at any rate people who only keep two servants for instance, could never expect two or three courses exclusive of sweets, to be placed before them every day." The only answer to make to such remarks is a gentle reminder that in most moderate households in France and on the Continent, there is only a bonne a toutfaire) and certainly rarely more than two maids. The former, unlike her English sister (the general servant), is an early riser, a good cook, presentable at almost any time of the day, and the sole producer of the modest, perhaps, but varied and delicious little menus which I should like to see put into practice among those who realize that variety in food is as necessary to the body as change of air and scene to the over-worked mind.5 Preliminary There are cookery manuals in which advice as to the week's meals are given after this fashion : Sunday, joint of beef stewed in such a manner ; Monday, cold beef; Tuesday, stewed beef, or cold again. Is not this fare for three days enough to break up a home and make all the members of the same, undesirous—to say the least of it— of appearing at table during the remainder of the week ! It is a thankless and often impossible task to attempt the part of reformer, but if only the few who may take up this little volume are willing to experiment in accordance with the suggestions it contains, I hope that they will be able to say in a very short time, that their time has not been wasted, and that the result is satisfactory. The advantages of variety, careful cooking, and dainty serving, do not merely affect the male portion of the establishment ; the general outcry so common among those who have the daily ordering of food, is really the result of limitation ; how frequently one hears anxious housewives say, u Would that there were things besides beef, mutton and veal, so that one could think of some- thing new ! " or they even go so far as to consider their duty of arranging the menu far more unpleasant than that which falls to those before whom the dullest of preparations are placed every day. If these self-made martyrs would take a little pride in really concocting a dainty meal deserving of a menu, however simple it might be, and if they were moved by the one thing necessary to accomplish this end, viz. a little common sense, and some elementary knowledge of matters culinary, they would find as much pleasure and pride in the daily task, as the other members of the family will enjoy the unexpected but long-desired variety. And although there must be no waste in any estab- lishment, and in certain cases, to be determined by the absence of superabundant wealth, no extravagance,6 Dainty Meals for Small Households still a great amount of discretion must be exercised as to the suitable size of joints, &c, and the style of provisions kept in the store cupboard. By this, I mean that if a joint weighing 6 lbs., for instance, suffices for the family, allowing for its reappearance in some shape or other, it might be wiser to purchase an additional pound or two, especially where occasional guests are apt to invite them- selves. A few extra slices of meat, hashed or minced, and prepared according to recipes which will follow, would often make a much-needed extra course. In other words, the careful housewife should arrange her menus, however simple they may be, on what I have often called the u overlapping " principle, with a view to using things a second time ; nothing is more extravagant than steaks and chops or other articles of diet which are consumed at one meal. There is yet another point on which many people show absolute indifference, little guessing that such in- difference only encourages negligence and laziness on the part of those who serve us, and for which they alone are generally blamed. That is the way in which the table is laid and the meals are served ; without advocating extravagance or even additional expense, where this is undesirable, it nevertheless must always be possible to keep things clean and neat ; without these two elements, enjoyment of the most daintily-prepared food becomes very difficult. It is quite easy to put away a tablecloth properly folded, and to place it under a settee cushion, or any other substitute for the linen press ; it can always be folded in the same way, which obviates creases ; the carver should have a serviette placed under the dish and plates in front of him, for gravy is often spilt even when there is only a small quantity in the dish. The serviette is naturally more easily washed than the cloth ;7 Preliminary this commonplace suggestion will be quite sufficient to impress upon the careful housewife the necessity of having a certain amount of forethought concerning apparently trifling details. The practice of keeping one set of tablecloths for breakfast and lunch and better ones for dinner is also an economy in the long run, although frequent change must entirely depend on the means of the household, but whether these be large or limited, cleanliness and daintiness need never be excluded. The rest of the dining-room arrangements also demand thoughtful treatment. Even where there is no elaborate preparation of the sideboard, with a display of plate and cut glass, a side table should always be handy, covered with a clean cloth, and furnished with necessary para- phernalia for changing plates, forks, knives, &c., or for dessert u couverts n and glasses.CHAPTER II. THEORETICAL. Now for the dry-as-dust theory, which I announced in the first chapter. If the mistress who is engaging a cook were competent to put a few searching questions to the applicant for the place, as an examiner is wont to do (always supposing she knew what to ask), the queries might run thus : How many ways are there of boiling ? What is a gratin ? What is frying ? How is a saute made ? What is stock ? Court bouillon ? and so on. This is but a " sketchy" catechism, yet if the correct answers were forthcoming from mistress or cook, the happiness of many homes would be more assured than it is now. I have no space to make this an exhaustive theoretical treatise ; but just considering that elementary points are generally omitted from cookery manuals, I must try and show how a slight knowledge of these few facts would heighten the interest taken by the operator, and improve the results of her labour. There are two culinary operations, viz. the one brought about by means of boiling or ebullition, and that of which the chief characteristic is concentration. Boiling.—This increases the flavour and richness of the liquor, or sauce, or gravy produced, in the same proportion as the substance which is being cooked loses its most nourishing juices. This is illustrated by the9 Theoretical Pot-au-feu; some fresh braised meats, and desiccated vegetables (lentils, haricot beans), calves' head and feet, and the shin of beef, some fish, the natural juices of which are not sufficiently important to require the concentrating process, are among the articles for which boiling is the most suitable mode of cooking. Roasting.—The second or concentrating process forms a kind of glaze or covering over the substance being cooked, thus imprisoning as it were all the best proper- ties of the meat or whatever it may be. This is the principle wherever roast, fried, saute'-d and grilled articles are concerned. Hence it becomes obvious that a certain amount of discretion must be used in deciding upon the treatment of various substances, according to their relative properties. Ordinary roasting can be done in front of the fire or in the oven. In the former case very great care is required ; whether coal (or wood as in some continental households) be used; the secret of success lies in remembering that glowing embers cook, whereas flames only " brown." The heavier the joint the more embers will be needed. A dull fire is ruination to good meat. Indeed the difficulty of combining every good requisite for cooking a joint before the fire has been realized to such an extent that gas is more often resorted to, and failing that,—baking in the oven. Of gas and its convenience as a cooking agent, there is more to be said than could be compressed into the space at my disposal; but, where it can reasonably be had, i.e. where a cook can be trusted, or a lady often operates herself, it is the most easily governed heat, and that is saying a great deal especially for the preparation of certain dishes. For roasting in the oven the first heat must be considerable, so as to form the outside coating which retains the juices. After a preliminary heating, the temperature may be slightly reduced andio Dainty Meals for Small Households the joint covered with buttered paper. The use of the Royal Roaster or self-baking dish is a great saving of trouble. If the joint is large, water or stock must be added, and at any rate it should be stood on a grating and not on the bottom of the baking tin. Gratin.—There are two sorts of gratins; one made by using cold remains, and one from fresh material. The object of cooking according to this process is to obviate evaporation and to retain the flavour and juices of the substance under treatment. It is generally effected in the oven, and the surface of the dish can be glazed or not, as desired, before sending it to table. Gas is the most favourable means of producing a good gratin. Saute.—A saute implies meat, &c, cooked briskly over a hot fire; butter and oil are the best materials, though lard and dripping may be substituted. The article under treatment must be turned over quickly without being pricked by the fork or other implement, as this would allow the juices to escape. Stock.—Stock is the liquor produced by the long boiling of some piece of meat not tender enough to be roasted. Recipes for producing the same will be given later on ; to the meat must be added certain vegetables, herbs, seasoning and flavouring, and the essential point is that process must be slow. The result is used for the manufacture of good soup, sauces, &c, &c. Frying.—Frying (an operation about which so many would think it infra dig. to be questioned) is most im- portant, and many people are painfully ignorant on the matter; hence the failures so common even among so-called good' cooks. The object aimed at by this mode of cooking is again to enclose and retain within the substance all the nourishment it contains. Oil, good pure lard, and clarified dripping, are the best kinds of fatTheoretical 11 to use; the quantity of the latter must depend on the size of the articles to be fried ; the more fat there is the more heat will it retain, and it is obvious that the heat must have attained to such a degree as to resist the cool- ing effects of the substance which is to be immersed in the same. That is an apparent trifle which very few people take into consideration, because they do not realize its importance; and yet when one is reminded of the fact and looks at it from a common-sense point of view, it seems a wonder that it is not instinctively carried out. Unless the article under treatment is put into fat which will be hot enough to immediately form the crisp covering required, the result will be poor and unsatisfac- tory ; that is the secret of il sodden " fried fish, of dull and tough fritters, &c. If the material to be fried be put into the fat without allowing for the fact that the sudden addition of a cold substance will arrest the action of the heat, there will naturally be delay, during which the fat will soak into the article under treatment, instead of quickly and crisply enclosing it in a light and dainty manner; and lightness and crispness are the characteristics of a good " friture." It follows from this that vegetables or other substances which are merely to be fried without concentration, will need a lesser quantity of fat, and also of heat ; in fact, only the necessary amount of the former in which to " toss " the contents and to prevent them from adhering to the pan. Court bouillon.—The court bouillon is the liquid used on the Continent for boiling fish, which is rarely prepared in plain water as in this country. Stewing.—This term, alas, is supposed to cover that operation which comprises the French ragoilt; yet the difference which exists between the two is nothing less than appalling to the hungry being who expecting a ragout is presented with an English plain cook's 11 stew "12 Dainty Meals for Small Households or its alternative called " hash." To make a good stew, the great point is a preliminary browning in fat of sliced onions, meat and vegetables, which should form its prin- cipal component parts. This operation crystallizes or retains the nutritive juices of the materials, after which the necessary liquor and thickening can be added. Braising.—This is the process of very slow cooking, suitable to materials which will be mentioned in due place, either with fire under the pan and embers on the lid, or it can, in this country, be accomplished in the oven. Pans fitted with short side handles are the right ones to use for braising. The object of the process is to colour or brown the substance as well as to submit it to a lengthy stewing.CHAPTER III. UTENSILS. It might perhaps be expected that a cookery book should give details galore on utensils, kitchen furniture, and so forth ; this one, however, can hardly attempt any exhaustive list; moreover, it is not intended as a vade mecum for those who know nothing or very little about the subject. My object has been from the beginning not to teach, but to suggest, according to the title of my little book, some few ways taught me by practical experience of increasing the daintiness of our daily meals. Dinner parties, smart luncheons, and elaborately prepared after- theatre suppers, &c, can take care of themselves, whilst for extraordinary occasions there is never any lack of possibilities ; but the every-day arrangements of our table and store cupboard are much more important, and it is all the more necessary to emphasize this fact because of the great number of cooks, and even mistresses, who are apt to think, " Oh, it is only for ourselves ; anything will do!" Therefore I not only curtailed my chapter on theories as much as possible, but will limit myself here to the mention of some"" less well-known kitchen implements. In the next chapter will be found a few general " golden " rules, which have certainly nothing very novel about them, but which must be remembered and carried out by every culinary operator, if daintiness and good results are to be the order of the day. In case of emergencies, or where it is impossible to14 Dainty Meals for Small Households obtain some of the implements mentioned, the practical person can, as a rule, make shift with improvised things, and achieve success by her own care and common sense. To those who are starting in housekeeping, I should say, do not invest in the old-fashioned sets of black saucepans ; they are ugly, unnecessarily heavy, and by their shape and bulk almost useless for materials which require delicate treatment. Copper pans are very expensive, and present much difficulty owing to the ultra-conscientious cleaning required to keep them in a really wholesome condition ; as an alternative, we are left a choice of utensils which can be roughly divided into steel goods, enamelled ware, American granite, aluminium, &c When left to themselves to settle this point, people are apt to fall into the error of purchasing one particular substance to the utter exclusion of the others ; yet it is obvious that what is needful for the success of a delicate sauce, for instance, is not necessarily the kind of metal which would produce a tasty stew, or a substantial and delicious braise. It is here again that theory comes to the aid of practice. The first desideratum is the stock pot, which may be either of tinned iron or of steel—a large saucepan answers the purpose required, though the accepted article is of deep cylindrical shape with short handles on either side. For all sorts of stews, and even for braising, the Continental tinned copper ware is excellent ; it is un- fortunately not commonly known in England, but is stocked by the Household Supply Company, 119, New Bond Street, where the American granite, which is equally efficient, is also to be had. Braising, as will be seen in the practical work, must be done in the oven, and to this effect the long handle, common to most saucepans, should be cut off and replaced by two shortUtensils i5 handles. The French earthenware, Marmite, is useful for this purpose. For sweet and other sauces, fruit, soups for small parties, &c, the granite is invaluable. For sautes copper or steel pans are undoubtedly the best to use. The much talked-of bain-marie should have a place in all well-appointed kitchens, but somehow or other, English manufacturers of the same still sell it at a price which, to many moderate households, is prohibitive. At the above-mentioned establishment, however, a more inexpensive article called " The Simplex" bain- marie is to be had. The object of this utensil is to keep hot sauces, gravies, &c, which must be prepared beforehand to make room for other things on the fire. The " tin-bath " is filled with hot or boiling water, and placed on the side of the stove. The pots containing substances which must not be allowed to boil up, stand in the water and remain in perfect condition till wanted. The new hygienic rack for which the Bond Street firm are the chief agents, is a capital receptacle for vegetables ; it is made of galvanized wire, and is provided with com- partments for different materials. The great point is that a mere glance will show whether any article is becoming stale or otherwise deteriorated, and can be removed at once without turning out the receptacle, and before the other vegetables have become contaminated. Decomposing matter is such an enemy to health and comfort, and the ordinary way of storing vegetables is so carelessly performed, that the advantages of the vegetable rack are obvious. Another article, which could easily be made by some local tinsmith, would answer the purpose of the delightful "Four de Campagne" so common in homely Continental kitchens. It consists of a portable side-stove, with a contrivance of some kind for the use of charcoal or wood embers. These are of the greatest possible advantage16 Dainty Meals for Small Households where long steady simmering must take place ; in fact, it would be impossible to carry out certain recipes with- out constant watching were it not for hot embers, the glow of which maintains such even heat. An iron cylinder, with a few holes in the lower part to keep up the draught, and a grating fixed inside at about four inches from the bottom (on which to lay the wood or charcoal), is all that is necessary—the saucepan would stand on the top ; or instead of this a simple iron grid fixed on a stand would answer the purpose. The wood burns well upon such an apparatus, and the pan can be kept in the right position by means of a stand such as is used in baking tins to raise the meat. Either of these contrivances is to be placed on the side of the range, where there is no fear of obnoxious fumes. The gas oven is the only substitute for this primitive appliance. The braisiere, by the way, is a kitchen utensil which is sadly lacking in most English kitchens ; in fact, it is even doubtful whether it is to be obtained from local ironmongers ; but it is a most useful addition to the housewife's belongings, and if it were only used more often, it would easily be procured from any good establishment. There are, however, several shops in London where French utensils can be obtained, if not at once, certainly by ordering them. The only thing needful is a demand for them. Now, once real braising has been tried, it must necessarily be appreciated, for there is hardly a more wholesome or succulent way of preparing meat. There are, of course, many cases when it is possible to make shift with anything, but braising ought to be done in the oven, and the long handles to the ordinary saucepan precludes the possibility of adopting this course, unless the oven is immense and the joint proportionately small. Again, some process approaching real braising can be arranged by means of hot embers placed over the cover ;i7 Utensils but even that is unsatisfactory, because the heat really requires to be even—over, underneath, and all round the utensil which holds the meat. A braisiere might easily be made to order by any English ironmonger, as long as it is of good material and is provided with two handles (like a stock-pot). The cover should be made with an edging, so that embers can be laid on the top, if the oven is not equally heated top and bottom. i^luminium has much in its favour ; it is remarkably light, uncorrosive, not difficult to clean, and very satis- factory for cooking many things ; but until its price has been reduced, it will probably not be generally adopted. Sieves and strainers should be supplemented by the more elaborate "firessoir" whether figuring as the " tammy," or the article used for pressing moisture, &c, out of vegetables. Fruit and raisin stoners, and vegetable cutters, cocottes, paper and earthenware " caisses" kitchen knives, moulds, milk sterilizer, choppers and mincers, jelly bags, pudding basins and cloths must be provided. Add to this a set of meat and pastry boards, pastry wires, baking tins, Vienna roll tins, frying baskets and grilling shapes, and a fairly complete batterie de cuisine will be obtained. The utensils for up-to-date cookery are not exhausted without a mention of earthenware, and oddly enough this brings in the most old-fashioned utensils of primitive country housewives in France—just in the same way as the " girdle" cake, hitherto unknown except in far-off Scotch and Yorkshire cottages, is now in vogue at the most dainty breakfast and tea tables. The tnarmite, which to the simple peasant represents the stock-pot, is in great requisition nowadays for the preparation called " petite marmite," which is very popular at small dinner and supper parties. The diable rousset1 another primitive utensil, is invaluable for baking ci8 Dainty Meals for Small Households potatoes in their jackets, roasting chestnuts, coffee, &c. Earthenware cannot be excelled for the serving of gratins for boiling- milk, chocolate, &c, whilst the miniature pans we may here call " pattikins " provide the correct receptacles for breakfast eggs which are neither fried, poached, nor boiled, but delicious nevertheless. Pie dishes, too, are excellent in this ware. Of the frying-pan I have as yet said nothing, keeping it till the last on account of its importance. Whether it be of common iron, bright steel, daintier aluminium, or plain earthenware, the rules remain the same. First, a separate pan must be reserved for eggs and omelets, another for fish, and a third for bacon and general frying. Secondly, it must never he washed as are other utensils, with soda, boiling water, &c, or it will infallibly burn the substance which it contains. After use it must merely be scoured with a crushed handful of clean paper, the operation being repeated until the paper remains perfectly stainless. If fat has been allowed to stand or settle, put the pan over the fire, pour away the melted fat, and proceed as above. The choice of a refrigerator, which is a certainly neces- sary article where circumstances allow, is an important matter. The "box" shape is the less costly of the two, but the " Cabinet" style is much more advantageous : firstly, because the placing of the ice block is easier, and therefore does not quickly wear out the lining of the space it occupies ; secondly, because it is provided with a tank supplying drinking water. A varied stock of refrigerators is always on view at the Household Supply Company. In conclusion, it is needless to say that every utensil must be subjected to scrupulous and conscientious clean- ing, and that every pan must be partly filled with water as soon as it is put aside after use.CHAPTER IV. MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. Bread crumbs used for frying, gratins, &c, should first be slightly dried on a clean tin or a sheet of paper, and kept till wanted in a well-closing jar or tin. The object of this suggestion is to lessen the drawbacks (to an inex- perienced cook) caused by the natural moisture contained in bread freshly crumbed, and also to produce more rapidly the colouring necessary to a sightly dish. More- over, it obviates delay when the article in question is wanted in a hurry. Garlic is an indispensable seasoning ingredient which must not be used in the same manner as onions, viz. chopped or sliced ; it should merely be rubbed over the dish or the meat under treatment ; mutton is the only meat which really needs it. Where salad is concerned, the bowl may be rubbed with a cut root, or a crust of bread rubbed with garlic can be put in the salad whilst it is being dressed, and subsequently removed. The white of eggs should be beaten up with a clean knife. A knife which has been used to peel onions should be well wiped with a clean cloth, then briskly rubbed with coarse dry salt. When skinning fish, such as soles, &c, which is slippery and difficult to hold firmly, dip the fingers in salt. Whenever flour is used for cakes, &c, and for all20 Dainty Meals for Small Households delicate preparations such as white sauces, it should previously be dried and sifted. Raisins, currants, and other dried fruit which requires to be washed, must be thoroughly dried and floured before using. Where cake mixtures are concerned, the fruit thus prepared should be put in last, as much stirring would send it all to the bottom. Paper cases must be slightly oiled inside and dried in the oven for about ten minutes before they are used ; this will, to a great extent, prevent them from becoming unpleasantly sodden by the material they contain. To peel tomatoes easily, scald them in boiling water, then dip them into cold water, and proceed with the peeling. Sprigs of parsley, cloved onion, pepper-corn.s, herbs, bay-leaf, mace, &c, which are absolutely necessary for the better flavouring of stocks, &c., should be placed in a small muslin bag (a collection of the latter being kept in every kitchen) so as to be easily removed as soon as their action has proved sufficient. To test the progress of a cake baking in the oven, run a knitting needle right down the middle ; if the steel remains bright, the cake is done. A few drops of lemon juice squeezed into the water in which salsify, celery, Jerusalem artichokes and other white vegetables are cooked, will help to retain the colour. Eggs may be roughly tested by placing them in cold water ; the fresher the egg, the more rapidly will it sink. Stale bread is delicious for breakfast, if it is quickly dipped in milk, or milk and water, and heated in the oven. This may be done either with whole small loaves, or with bread cut in moderate li hunks." To test the heat of an oven, put in a sheet of thin white paper, if too hot, the paper will blacken and blaze;Miscellaneous Hints 21 if it turns yellow quickly, the degree for puff pastry, vol-au- vent, and that which is made with butter and with yeast is attained. Other kinds of dough for bread, cakes, &c., succeed better when the paper colours more slowly. To prevent salt from caking in the salt-cellars, add a little arrowroot. Mixed mustard will keep a better colour if a pinch of salt is added to the mixture. To quickly remove the paper from the bottom of a cake, hold it in front of the fire, and it will come off quite easily. When the oven is too hot for the proper baking of its contents, stand a basin of cold water inside. (This does not apply to gas-stoves, as the heat can be reduced or increased at will.) Never slam an oven door when anything is baking ; such a proceeding would ruin the contents. To obviate a strong smell of cooking, stand a cupful of vinegar on the side of the stove. Where greens are con- cerned, put into the saucepan containing the same a piece of stale bread tied up in a muslin bag. To cut hard-boiled eggs in regular, smooth strips, dip the knife into water. The corks of bottles or jars containing substances which are apt to be very sticky should be dipped in salad oil before being replaced. Iron pots and utensils which are not in daily use are apt to rust ; to prevent this, make a paste with thick starch and a strong solution of soda and water, and with this coat the inside of the article in question. This can easily be rinsed off when the pot is wanted. Clarified Fat.—Cut the fat up in pieces the size of a nut, and put these into a saucepan with enough water to cover them. Stand the pan on the stove, and let it all boil till the water has all evaporated, and the fat, which22 Dainty Meals for Small Households has up till then been milky-looking, becomes quite clear and ceases bubbling. Let it stand on the stove till all the little bits of skin left in it have shrivelled up and are quite brown, but not burnt. Now let it stand, off the fire, to cool for a couple of minutes, then pour it through a strainer into a basin, and leave it till quite cold and set. Fat thus clarified should be quite white and hard, and will keep for weeks, if not months. This fat is ex- cellent for frying, and can be used over and over again ; to ensure perfection throw in a little salt, stir, let it stand for five minutes, and strain it off into an earthen- ware basin. It is advisable not to allow it to cool in the frying-pot, as tiny bits from whatever was fried in it may sink to the bottom in the fat, and, when reheated, will discolour the fat and the next thing cooked in it. If, from repeated use, the fat becomes dark in colour, it must be reclarified thus :—Melt it and pour it into a quart of water (this is for the amount of fat required for an ordinary fried fish), add a small handful of salt, and mix it all well together ; then let it cool till the fat has set on the surface ; this must be lifted out, wiped, scraping off the discoloured underneath. Of course this second clarifying is not as pure as the first time—the whitest will fry sweets, the next savouries and vegetables, and the deepest coloured for cooking fish. Of course, fat used for pastry, &c, must be of the first clarifying only. Really good clarified dripping (beef) can be used for household purposes in any way that butter is used. An excellent frying and cooking fat can also be pro- duced as follows :—Take about 2 lbs. of beef suet, cut it up small, stand it in a basin of water over night, change the water in the morning, and boil the fat in a cupful of milk ; this will produce a clear substance, which can be stood on the side of the fire ; meantime clarify or melt 1 lb. of fresh lard and i\ lb. of fresh butter. Mix theMiscellaneous Hints 23 three substances together, and store in jars in a cool, dry place. The uncomfortable sensation experienced in peeling onions, especially where a number of small ones are being prepared for pickling, can be almost entirely obviated by laying the onions in slightly salted water over night. To preserve lemon rind, which is a most useful flavouring, make a thick syrup with water and loaf sugar, drop in fresh lemon (or orange) rinds, previously wiped with a clean moist cloth, and boil until tender. Drain off all the syrup, and store in small, well-stoppered glass jars. When milk turns sour it should not be thrown away; stand it in a bowl in a cool place until it thickens ; it can then be used instead of cream for the manufacture of pancakes, scones, and other useful dishes. When the whites of raw eggs alone are wanted, the shell should be broken gently so as to allow the white to escape ; then close the shell and put the eggs into a stand. The yolks will keep fresh and good for several days, and can be fried very nicely with the small quantity of white which is sure to adhere. To sterilize milk for home use, invest in Aymard's simple and inexpensive apparatus, which is invaluable for the kitchen, nursery, and sick-room. To keep larding-pins and metal skewers bright, whilst not in use, wrap them in oiled paper sprinkled with pounded and sifted chalk. Rice, sugar (both moist and loaf), arrowroot, corn- flour, &c, should be kept in labelled and well-closing jars or tins. A salt jar is indispensable for kitchen use. Flour must be stored in a dry place. Joints of fresh meat, bacon, &c, must be hung up on hooks provided for the purpose. If bacon is stored in24 Dainty Meals for Small Households large quantities the store-room, or a dry, roomy cup- board is better for its preservation than the larder. Remains of meat, fish, &c., must be placed upon clean and common dishes before being put away for future use. The various parts of the dinner set being exclu- sively reserved for table use. Butter, vegetables, sausages, &c., should never be put away in the paper in which they are sent from the shop; however, it is frequently done, although it is both un- tidy and unwholesome. The regular cleaning of the refrigerator is a most important thing; the shelves and edges must be wiped with a moist cloth daily, and once a week (twice in summer) scouring must be resorted to. For this boiling soda water should be used, and it is also advisable to mix a small quantity of ammonia. When this has been done the sides and bottom of the apparatus may, with advantage, be finally rinsed with water containing a little Condy's Fluid or other disinfectant. The same remark applies to the larder shelves ; these should be wiped over every day, and for the weekly cleaning both soda water and disinfectant (as above) must be used. The floor should be swept daily, or crumbs and scraps which must fall to the ground will prove a great attraction to mice, &c. It is also advisable to have the larder whitewashed about twice a year. Where people are in a position to do their own curing, make sausages at home, &c, the preparation of bladders needs great care. First soak them over night (twelve hours) in whisky or common brandy. Shake them out to dry, rub them over with fine dry bran, and rinse them with soda water and clean lukewarm water. When they have been hung up, slightly stretched and dried, they will be ready for use. To cool a store room or cupboard, the temperature ofMiscellaneous Hints 25 which (during a spell of hot weather) may become detri- mental to the goods, make long strips of coarse woollen material, fasten them to the ceiling, or to high placed hooks, tie a weight at the bottom of each, and drop them into basins containing cold water. The flannel will absorb the moisture and considerably lower the tem- perature. To ripen a Camembert cheese, which may be in- sufficiently creamy, put it in a warm place for an hour or so. To harden smoked cod's roe, which may be too soft to grate (this is often useful to vary a savoury), put it in a muslin bag and hang it up in the kitchen for a day or two.CHAPTER V. a. STOCKS, b. SOUPS. The first desideratum towards the production of good soup and towards the formation of numbers of dishes, is a constant supply of good stock. Of course, many- Lenten and emergency soups can be prepared without that commodity, but on the whole it is most undesirable that the stock-pot and its contents should be neglected or allowed to run short. Want of care in this respect is greatly the cause of the difference between plain English fare and the Continental cuisine bourgeoise. It is in the preparation of 11 potages " and vegetables that the advan- tage of using stock instead of water is so very palpable, and the small outlay connected with its fabrication is amply repaid by the delicate results obtained. And here it may be well to say that nothing, except actual skin, or fat, need be counted as waste material. Every bone, whether cooked or raw, and every " trim- ming " of meat should find a place in the stock-pot ; thus, in the smallest household and even where the regulation " pot " is not forthcoming, a supply of stock can be kept. The simplest process is this :—Put into the saucepan (the size to be determined by the quantity of the meat) a large onion sliced, a piece of bacon rind (this is optional), a bouquet, i.e. the items mentioned in Chapter III. (to be secured in a muslin bag), and the meat, cut in pieces and previously rubbed with salt and pepper ; cover with cold27 Stocks water, put on the lid and stand it over the fire to boil. After it has boiled there may be scum on the surface, which should be removed, but this is more likely to occur where much larger quantities are concerned. The pan may then be drawn aside so that the contents may simmer for at least two hours. (This for a small supply made from scraps.) Remember that a good pot-au-feu is not determined by the quantity of meat that is used; the secret of success lies in the method employed. For regular supply stock proceed thus :—Take about if lb. of beef (any part of the leg, shin, rump, or shoulder) and a few bones (id. or 2d. worth will suffice), crush the bones with a hammer, beat the meat well, and put it into the pot with cold water and a little salt. Stand it over a moderate fire. The bones are generally put in first, and the quantity of water for the above amount of meat can be varied to suit requirements ; but a good proportion is about a gallon and a half. The object must now be to carry on the simmering so that the contents will be cooked to the best advantage, and in order to ensure this the fire must be kept up in an even and moderate way, care being taken, when it has to be replenished, not to occasion any noticeable difference in the heat, as additional fierceness would be detrimental to the quality of the stock ; this is easily explained by the simple fact that if the boiling is increased in such a measure as to necessitate the frequent addition of much water, the even, slow process will be impeded and the result inevitably spoilt. On the other hand, the formation of scum should not be too rapid, or the meat will harden, and, to carry out the foreign plan, this should be brought into requisi- tion and be served up in some way or other, after it has been removed from the pot. It therefore follows, from these apparently lengthy but very essential injunctions, that steady, even simmering must be the aim of the28 Dainty Meals for Small Households operator. When the stock nearly boils skim it carefully, and add half a cupful of cold water; repeat this operation three or four times, and the stock will be quite clear; then the vegetables, which give such a delicious flavour, must be put in. These can be varied at times, and per- sonal taste should be considered ; as a rule, however, the best ingredients are carrots, a large turnip, three or four large leeks, some celery (some people like half a bay- leaf), and a large onion studded with half a dozen cloves. When the stock boils draw the pot aside, raise the cover slightly, to allow the steam a passage, and continue the process for two or three hours ; from four to five hours in all are none too much for the whole operation, though many people are satisfied with less. The flavour may be varied by the occasional addition of half a firm cabbage, and it goes without saying that any kind of bones, a knuckle of veal, trimmings of various joints, &c, all con- tribute a change without at all impairing the pot-au-feu. The real bouillon, however, is made from beef only, as in the preceding instructions. Other stocks are called by their own name, veal broth, chicken broth, &c, as the case may be, and are prepared according to special recipes. When the meat is quite tender remove it care- fully from the pot ; always store the broth that is not required for the soup of the day, for instance, in a cool place, and do not cover it up. This will keep four or five days in winter ; in summer or doubtful weather it should be boiled up once daily. Colouring the general contents of the fiot-au-feu is not advisable, as they may be required for sauces for which such a foundation would be unsuitable. Finally, the fat which results from this stock-pot is a most desirable addition to the larder, being delicious for frying purposes. It must, of course, be clarified ; this is easily done by letting the fat simmer slowly over the fire for a full hour in a saucepan kept forStocks 29 this one purpose. When it has cooled a little, but not of course enough to set (ten to fifteen minutes), strain it into a clean earthenware jar and stand it in a cool place. For the information of those who have but a vague idea of the respective quantities required for making soup for a certain number, the following proportions may be useful :—A pint and a half to a quart of stock, milk, or water, as the case may be, is the usual allowance for four persons ; a table-spoonful of rice, fecula, Italian paste, &c, goes to a breakfast-cupful of liquor. Two more recipes for broth will be found useful to most housewives at some time or other. I will give them here before proceeding with practical every-day soups. First of all the Consomme :—This is simply a more concentrated stock or broth, producing a stronger and richer ingredient for various dishes, which, without extravagance, may be needed from time to time in the most modest household. Secondly, the so-called jus or gravy, which is really only another form of consomme (if this be taken in its literal meaning of concentrated substance), but answering the purpose of colouring as well as strengthening the soup or sauce to which it is added. Without absolutely advocating a constant supply of these two commodities it is, nevertheless, advisable to know exactly how to prepare them, Consomme Ordinaire.—Put into a pot 2 lbs. of shin of beef, half a knuckle of veal, and, if possible, some cold remains of fowl ; cover this with from three to four pints of water, and two pints of ordinary stock. Let it boil slowly according to the instructions given for the stock, skimming carefully ; when it boils add two carrots, two leeks, one large onion, a small handful of peeled and chopped almonds, and a pinch of sugar ; let this mixture simmer slowly but constantly for five or six hours. Remove the meat, strain the consomme through a fine30 Dainty Meals for Small Households cloth, and stand it in a cool place to use when required, not as a foundation but as an addition, to those prepara- tions for which it will be wanted, and which it is intended to improve. The omission of salt and pepper should be duly noted ; it is best not to season those things that require to be kept good for some time ; it will be quite enough to season the dish to which it is to be added. Another:—Cut up 2 lbs. of the shin of beef, half a fowl (it may be an old one, and the other half can be used for risotto) ; slightly brown the latter in a little butter or good dripping ; put them, with two carrots, two leeks, and one large onion, into a pot with three or four pints of water, and slowly cook it for eight hours ; strain, &c., as before. Consomme (for Preserving).—Put into a large stock-pot 2 lbs. of the shin of beef, one ox foot, a couple of calves' feet broken up, a piece of veal, and about 1 lb. of the liver of beef ; cover with at least nine pints of water ; add some celery, parsley, one onion studded with cloves, another large one plain, three or four carrots, and a small pinch of salt. Put the lid on the pot, and let it boil and simmer slowly (the latter part of the time on hot embers, if possible) for four or five hours. After this time pour the broth into a large basin, remove all the fat very carefully ; strain it through a fine cloth, and stand it in a cold place till it has set. Then turn the jelly out, and dry it on a plate, either whole or in slices, in the oven over night. It can then be kept for a length of time, and will dissolve quite easily when it is added to hot soups or sauces in the course of preparation. Jus or Stock Gravy.—Cut up some good fresh beef suet, put it into a saucepan, add to this one large onion, two large carrots, and one celery root, all thinly sliced ; half a dozen sprigs of parsley, one bay-leaf, some pepper- corns, a pinch of salt, 1 lb. of shin of beef (also cut inStocks 3i slices), a piece of bacon rind, and a couple of slices of ham. Let this all cook over the fire, well covered. Before the moisture which will naturally be produced by these several ingredients be dried up, add the necessary quantity of water (enough to cover the contents of the saucepan by about two inches). Now let it simmer slowly, after the first boil, for three or four hours. Strain the gravy, which will turn into a thick jelly when it has been standing in a cold place for some time, and use it when required. When the contents of the stock-pot have run low, or when the broth is weak, it can be greatly improved by the addition of a spoonful or more of this excellent concentrated broth. Veal Broth (Bouillon de veau aux herbes).—Take 5 lb. of the fillet or the leg of veal, cut it into small pieces, put it over the fire in about three pints of cold water ; let it boil, as before, and skim carefully whenever it is necessary ; add a little salt, two lettuces (or a cabbage cut in four), some chervil, parsley, chives, two small carrots, and a medium-sized onion ; let this simmer gently for about two hours ; remove all the fat, strain, and keep in a cool place. Of course the proportions can be in- creased, or, if the broth is required strong, more meat can be added ; this is a fair proportion for delicate persons and invalids. Bouillon a la Minute, though not exactly an economical, every-day preparation, is very handy in emer- gencies. Cut up about 1 lb. of lean beef and half a fowl boned, pound them well in a mortar ; when it is well shredded and nearly in a paste, put it into a saucepan with a little salt and a pint and a half of water. Let it boil over a good fire, stirring gently all the time ; as soon as it boils skim it thoroughly, and add two carrots, two leeks, one parsnip, an onion, and some celery, all sliced. Put the cover on, and let the whole simmer for twenty32 Dainty Meals for Small Households minutes or half an hour, according to the state of the vegetables, which should be tender. Strain and use when wanted. If the fowl is not available, some cold remains of chicken or of veal will do equally well. The ordinary Bouillon Maigre is quite a simple pre- paration and most useful for fast days. Boil three- quarters of a pint of dried peas in two or two and a half pints of water ; they must be put into cold water. After the first boil, add every half hour about a sherry glassful of cold water ; this will help to soften the peas more thoroughly ; after an hour and a half or two hours' time, add three carrots, two onions (one studded with cloves), a little celery, some parsley, half a bay-leaf, and either some remains of fish or a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Let the whole mixture simmer for five hours over a slow fire ; salt it moderately during the fourth hour, and strain off the vegetables when these are quite tender. This makes an excellent stock, and is very often, used instead of meat stock for cooking vegetables, not necessarily intended as fast-day dishes. Another excellent emergency consomme is made from the wonderful Maggi capsules, of which much has been heard since Messrs. Cosenza & Co., of 95, Wigmore Street, London, W., imported them from Switzerland. This concentrated substance, prepared from the best material, is put up in gelatine tubes, one of which, dissolved in about three-quarters of a pint of absolutely boiling water (poured into a previously well-heated tureen, cup, &c.), produces a delicious broth or clear soup. For dinner parties a little sherry may be added, and small custard rice, or Cosenza's profiterolles can be served with the same. b. Soups. Whilst on the subject of Maggi preparations, which, owing to their usefulness and excellence, should have an33 Soups important place in every store cupboard, and which also form an indispensable travelling requisite, I may as well say here, that in addition to the consomme capsules, thirty different varieties of soups are also to be had. They are put up in packets, each sufficient for two persons ; two tablets make soup for five, and so on in proportion. Directions for use are printed on each packet; in most cases the preparation must be crumbled into a basin, mixed into a paste with a little water, and stirred into a saucepan containing the required amount of boiling water. This is then cooked over the fire for about a quarter of an hour, the result being a delicious soup with all the flavour of the fresh ingredients from which it is prepared. In addition to the thirty varieties comprising such things as peas, rice, tapioca, julienne, parmentier, bonne femnte, onion, barley, beans, &c, &c., there are six other special kinds, viz. bisque, oxtail, curry, French beans and mock turtle. Further, the same Swiss firm furnish us with one of the most useful and delicious flavouring mixtures ever placed upon the market, viz. the Maggi Essence, a really valuable and delicious flavouring. u White " Soups, as provided by the Continental family cook, are particularly convenient, for they are not only seasonable all the year round, but help to provide that sine qua non to health and good temper (where food is concerned), viz. variety. Many of these specially deserve mention, and several delicious kinds requiring eggs in their composition will be welcome to those who boast a poultry yard. Th. Marquis, 74, Tottenham Court Road, London, W., has a varied list of delicious soups in bottles, quite ready for use. Although the fact has not absolutely been stated, it will be obvious to all that most of these recipes can be made D34 Dainty Meals for Small Households suitable for vegetarian fare if desired, by using the so- called maigre stock instead of that made from meat. It is not my intention to enter specially into that branch, which can be studied in practical works treating of that subject, but it may be helpful to state, by the way, that good stock can be prepared as.follows :— Boil together beans, peas, lentils, lettuces, carrots, par- snips, celery, leeks, and onions, with a plentiful flavouring of salt and pepper, and strain. This stock can be im- proved by adding to it afterwards a puree of the vegetables from which it has been strained. Another good com- bination for the same purpose is obtained with peas, turnips, carrots, celery, cabbages (red and white), a bunch of parsley, and two or three large onions well studded with cloves. When they have been thoroughly well boiled, strain off the liquor, pressing the vegetables hard all the while. Potage an Ris Lie (Rice Soup, Thickened).—Wash and pick the required quantity of rice (according to the proportions already given); put it in a saucepan over the fire with already boiling stock, and let it cook for about three-quarters of an hour, stirring often the while ; the rice should be well swollen and tender. Just before serving, beat up in the tureen itself the yolks of two eggs, with half a tumblerful of good fresh milk, and a pinch of grated nutmeg (cream is also suitable if available); pour the boiling soup over this mixture from a height, beating it still with a whisk to mix it all thoroughly. a la Mcelle (Marrow Soup).—Take a large marrow bone, empty its contents into a mortar, pound it thoroughly, add to this the grated crust and the inside of a milk roll soaked in milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one onion finely chopped, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and two eggs. When these ingredients are well incorporated, roll them35 Soups on a board into small balls. Have ready some good stock in a saucepan with some chopped chervil and chives ; when this boils, throw in the balls, let them simmer in the stock for five or six minutes, and serve. Or, the mixture can simply be stirred in, without rolling. Soupe Blanche (White Soup).—Stir in an earthenware saucepan the yolks of three eggs into a gill of cream (good milk will answer the purpose with an extra egg). Set it over the fire, and pour over the mixture at once three-quarters of a pint of boiling water or thin stock as desired ; into this stir a small piece of butter, with pepper and salt to taste. When the soup has thickened, serve with fried bread. Soupe a la Creme (Cream Soup).—Break four eggs in a fireproof saucepan, add one dessertspoonful of rice fecula, a teacupful of cream, and a pint and a half of warm stock; season, and stir over the fire till the soup thickens; have the tureen warmed, and pour the soup into it, stirring all the time. Bouillon aux (Eufs Poehes. — Take the necessary quantity of good stock in its freshest condition, and carefully remove all the fat ; fry some bread to cut into dice, and, a minute or two before removing it from the frying-pan, add a small handful of very finely-chopped parsley, chervil, and chives ; put this into the tureen with the necessary seasoning, and pour the boiling stock over it. Serve with poached eggs sent in separately. Some people find the latter difficult to prepare ; it really is the easiest operation possible, provided the simple instructions are faithfully carried out. Have ready in a pan over the fire some absolutely boiling water, decidedly salted, and containing a few drops of good strong vinegar ; break the eggs one after the other, and drop them straight and boldly into the water ; in two minutes the white will have completely set ; take out the eggs with a strainer,36 Dainty Meals for Small Households carefully pare off the rough edges, and drop them into a basin of lukewarm water. When they are all trimmed, send them in with the soup. The great thing is to poach only two at a time ; they will not cling or join together; it is when this happens, and they have to be separated, that accidents which discourage the novice are likely to occur. Bouillon aux Nouilles.—Put some stock into a sauce- pan with a few slices of bacon, a small onion studded with four cloves, a bay-leaf, and plenty of seasoning; let it boil up slowly, and then simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour altogether from the time of the first boil. Meantime have ready a paste made with two whole eggs, a piece of fresh butter1 the size of a small nut, a tablespoon- ful of water, and some flour. The latter must be added in sufficient quantity to produce a fairly stiff paste. Roll it out on the board without sprinkling it with flour, as is usually done ; it should not be thicker than the back of a carving-knife blade. Let it stand a little, then cut it into strips, allow them to dry ; strain the stock, put it back into the saucepan, throw in as many strips of nudeln or nouilles as will be necessary, and serve after the soup has boiled five or six minutes. The two following recipes will be found of great service for invalids or convalescents in need of strengthening food:— Soupe aux Huitres (Oyster Soup).—Shell some fresh oysters, trim them, remove the beards, and boil them quickly in a glassful of white wine and the juice of half a lemon ; strain them, put them into the hot tureen with small dry biscuits or squares of fried bread, and over this pour the stock, seasoned, and thickened with the yolks of eggs. This is delicious ; the eggs and oysters to be 1 Note.—Unless fresh butter is given in the recipe, clarified dripping, or lard, should be used.Soups 37 put in according to requirements, half a dozen oysters and two eggs being generally reckoned for one person. Bouillon de Veau (Veal Broth).—Boil two calves' feet to rags in cold water, strain through a muslin, and keep it in a cool place ; when wanted, warm it up care- fully, season it, and allow one egg beaten up and two tablespoonfuls of milk (or good white wine as preferred) to each cup of broth. Soupe a la Farine Blanche (White Flour Soup).— Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of dry sifted flour in a break- fast cupful of stock, put it into a saucepan over the fire, and add as it simmers more stock (or water, if the former is not available), salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When it has boiled slowly for a little while, thicken it, just before serving, with the yolks of two eggs and a table- spoonful of cream, or, failing this latter commodity, with a tiny piece of fresh butter worked with a sprinkling of flour. Serve as soon as it has boiled up once, and do not leave off stirring till the soup is poured into the tureen. Soupe a la farine brillee (Burnt Flour Soup).— Brown two tablespoonfuls of flour in some butter, with one small onion chopped fine ; when quite coloured, add the necessary quantity of stock, season ; stir over the fire till it boils, and serve with fried bread. Soupe aux miettes de Pain (Bread Soup).—Pound in a mortar some dry crusts of bread, throw them into some boiling stock, season with salt and pepper, add a small pinch of grated nutmeg ; let it boil up once or twice, and just before serving beat in three eggs previously well whisked. Serve at once, with or without grated cheese. Puree aux Pois Sees (Pea Soup).—Wash about half a pint of dried peas in lukewarm water; put them into a saucepan, with a pint and a half of cold water, two carrots, two leeks, some celery, and salt to taste ; let this boil slowly for three hours, adding every half-hour a38 Dainty Meals for Small Households sherry-glassful of cold water, to make the peas tender. When they are quite soft, press them through a sieve, put the puree thus obtained into a saucepan, add some stock, and boil slowly for twenty-five minutes ; put a small piece of butter into the tureen, also, if desired, some squares of fried bread, pour the puree over it, and serve. When the peas are being pressed through the sieve it is an improvement to moisten them occasionally with a little broth. Lentils can be treated in the same way, and both soups will be improved by the addition of a few thin slices of onion, some chopped herbs (especially tarragon and chives), and a piece of bacon or knuckle- bone of a well-smoked ham. This should be removed when the peas, &c, are made into puree, and, of course, need not be put in if there is any objection. Tapioca and semolina are both excellent ingredients, especially for invalids and children. The proportions for each person are one tablespoonful of the former and half the quantity of the latter. In either case the stock should be allowed to boil. Put in the tapioca, &c, stir over the fire for twenty minutes, and at the last moment add either the beaten-up yolk of an egg or a small piece of butter, or, again, a couple of teaspoonfuls of cream. Season to taste before serving, and send up fried bread or not, as desired. Soupe aux Vermicelles (Vermicelli Soup).—Scald 2 ozs. of vermicelli in one pint of water, with a pinch of salt. When it has parboiled, strain it. Boil some stock, put in the vermicelli, stir for ten minutes, skim, and carefully serve with one poached egg to each person or not, as required. All kinds of maccaroni and Italian pastes can be prepared in this way. Soupe a TOrge Perle (Pearl Barley Soup).—Wash \ lb. of pearl barley, and boil it in a pint and a half of water, with \ oz. of fresh butter and a pinch of salt. After three hours'39 Soups slow boiling, put in the necessary amount of stock that will be wanted for the soup (or just a little more to allow for the boiling), and let it simmer for one hour more. Put into the tureen a little cream, or some good milk (about half a tumblerful), and a tiny piece of fresh butter; pour the hot soup into the tureen, stirring briskly all the time, and serve at once with or without fried bread. Another:—To each person reckon one tablespoonful of well-washed pearl barley, and nearly \ oz. of butter to every two spoonfuls ; let this simmer for a few minutes with the cover on, add the necessary broth, put in salt and pepper, and let it simmer for two hours. A quarter of an hour before serving stir in a teaspoonful of dry flour, previously dissolved in an eggcupful of cream, or half a small tumblerful of milk ; beat it up briskly, and let the whole boil again. This is a most delicious soup, and excellent for invalids. It can be much improved by putting in some chicken bones, if these are available ; they should be removed before the flour, &c, are stirred in. This same soup, entirely strained, can also be used with great advantage as a foundation for a vegetable soup, for dinner parties, for instance. When strained, put the liquor back into the saucepan, and add some cauliflower picked into small sprigs, with a few morels, or asparagus well scraped and cut into suitable pieces (not forgetting to parboil them, with a little butter, before they are put in); the soup should then simply simmer till the cauli- flower or asparagus be quite tender. The subject of vegetable soups is extensive enough to fill a good-sized volume, so that I can only mention some of the most useful, the preparation of which involves but little trouble. When properly made, nothing could be nicer or more wholesome as a daily course ; but other- wise, it is difficult to imagine a more objectionable concoction.40 Dainty Meals for Small Households The fact that growing girls and boys, especially those who live on boarding-school fare, do not have a good soup served at dinner and supper, is much to be deplored ; and the absence of such a course may go far to account for the fact that during their school years, English lads and lasses are not so strong as their Continental neighbours. From a purely hygienic point of view, soup should certainly be served daily in the autumn and winter months. There are two things that mar a soup of this kind ; firstly, a watery taste and appearance ; secondly, a painful, but very frequently found solution of continuity between the vegetables and the liquor. Very rarely does the average English plain cook produce the velvety substance so common to the soupe aux legumes, which, when in season, is almost a sine qua non to the most modest Continental dinner. That this quality is easily obtained will be quite apparent if the instructions given with the endive and spinach soups are carried out care- fully, and they apply equally to all soups of the same kind. Puree de Tomates (Tomato Puree).—Cut some tomatoes in half, and remove the pips ; have ready a large onion finely shredded and slightly browned in butter ; to this add the tomatoes and a large bunch of parsley; season with salt and pepper, a small pinch of pounded clove and nutmeg, and a small bay-leaf. Let these simmer till the moisture has nearly all evaporated, press it through a fine sieve. Mix this puree with the hot stock, and add J lb. of vermicelli, previously scalded in boiling salted water and well drained. Soupe auxEpinards (Spinach Soup).—Wash thoroughly a quantity of well-picked spinach, add a dozen sprigs of chervil and one of mint; chop all this fine, put it into a colander and weight it heavily to express as much of the moisture as possible ; this will take some hours, so that the4i Soups greens will have to be prepared in good time. Shake them into a saucepan, with a little fresh butter, and let them gently simmer until they show signs of giving out more moisture ; add a tablespoonful of flour, and whilst still stirring put in the needful stock, or equal parts of stock and water. Beat up two yolks in the tureen (with a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, if desired), and pour the soup over this after it has boiled slowly for fifteen or twenty minutes. Soupe aux Herbettes (Herb Soup).—Wash a large hand- ful of sorrel, chervil, and parsley respectively; chop them fine with a few chives, toss them in 2 ozs. of fat; then slightly brown them, after adding a tablespoonful of flour. Add the stock, finish as above, and serve with or without the eggs. Soupe aux Raves (Turnip Soup).—Slice a dozen small carrots and four good turnips, also 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of lean bacon or ham. Stew this very slowly in 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of fat. When the mixture is quite tender, season it, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of good gravy and the necessary quantity of stock. Continue the simmering for half an hour, let it boil up once, stir through a sieve, and serve. Soupe a la Chicoree (Endive Soup).—Wash some fine endives thoroughly, and cut them in halves or quarters, according to their size, stew them with 2 ozs. of butter; when tender, sprinkle a little flour over them; add some chives and parsley, well chopped; put in the stock ; boil gently for twenty minutes ; put into the tureen some very fine slices of coarse bread (rather stale), two yolks, a little milk or cream, pour the soup in, and serve very hot. Potage Soyer (Vegetable Puree).—Peel and cut up three onions, three turnips, one carrot, and four potatoes. Put into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter,42 Dainty Meals for Small Households the same of lean ham, and a bunch of parsley; toss them for ten minutes on a sharp fire, then add a good spoonful of flour which should be well mixed, add one quart of stock and a pint of boiling milk, stir it until boiling, season with a little salt, sugar, and pepper, rub it through a tammy. Put into another stewpan and boil again ; skim it and serve with croutons. Soupe aux Petits Pois Verts (Fresh Pea Soup).—Shell some peas, chop fine some parsley and chervil (there ought to be a handful when chopped), put them into a pan with a little hot lard ; sprinkle this with a teaspoonful of flour, and season with salt and pepper. Let it stew gently, and well covered up, for a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile, boil a lettuce, tied round with string, in the necessary quantity of stock, and when it is quite tender take it out with a strainer; chop up the heart fairly small, add it to the peas, &c., for a few minutes, and pour the contents of the stewpan into the hot broth. After it has boiled up once or twice, pour it into the tureen, in which the yolk of an egg should previously have been beaten, stirring all the while. Grate a little nutmeg over the surface and serve. The lettuce gives a very mellow taste, but the soup can be made without it if preferred. Soupe aux Poireaux (Leek Soup).—This should by no means be despised as too plebeian or otherwise u not good enough " ; the vegetable in question has a most delicate and delicious taste. When they are just in season, and of a moderate size, peel off the outside leaves, split them in half lengthwise, cut them into pieces about an inch (or less) long, and stew or steam in some butter without letting them brown at all; add to this a handful of chopped garden cress or chervil, then put it into the stock as required ; after judicious seasoning this should be allowed to simmer for at least three-quarters ofSoups 43 an hour. Beat up in the tureen the yolk of one egg with a dessertspoonful of milk, and stir the soup as it is poured into the tureen. These soups can be served with or without bread. It must be remembered that the thin slices of bread so often found in foreign potages are not liked by everybody, although they have their raison d^etre ; the crumb, suddenly soaked in the boiling liquid, is quickly reduced to a creamy pulp, which adds much to the mellowness of the soup, and the very thin crusts are not at all detrimental to either the appearance or the taste of the whole. Some people put this sliced bread into a basin separately, pour a small quantity of hot stock over it, cover it up, and, after a few minutes, press the mixture through a rather coarse sieve into the tureen, after the egg has been beaten up and before the soup is poured in. In a great many soups the croiites au fromagt are used, and greatly improve the flavour. They are prepared thus :—Grease a small baking tin very slightly, put some thin, evenly-cut slices of bread into it, sprinkle them with grated cheese, put the tin into a hot oven, and, when the cheese begins to melt, place them in the tureen and pour the soup over them. Soupa a la Bataille.—This soup, for which there is no corresponding name in English, is made from as many kinds of vegetables as possible ; the most usual for the purpose are generally distributed as follows :—Remove the hard core and the roughest leaves from a medium-sized cabbage, wash it well, and cut it in small pieces ; cut up a couple of round lettuces with firm hearts, slice two young carrots and a good turnip, and three or four large potatoes washed and peeled ; to this add some beans cut small if in season, and a breakfast-cupful of green peas, together with some of the best part of a cauliflower, picked off in small sprigs ; make some butter hot in a stewpan, put in the vegetables, and let them44 Dainty Meals for Small Households steam for a little while ; have ready in a saucepan the required quantity of stock, and boil slowly for about two hours, when all the contents should be quite tender. Pour it into the tureen, and sprinkle over the surface a handful of finely-chopped chives, and a little grated nutmeg, This soup is both wholesome and strength- ening. Soupe aux Racines.—This, as its name implies, is made from roots or tubers. Cut in slices a dozen carrots, four parsnips, one turnip, half a dozen potatoes, and J lb. of bacon or ham ; steam these things together in some butter till they begin to colour, then add gradually equal parts and gravy and good broth. Boil slowly for half an hour at least; pour and press the whole through a fine sieve; if too thick, or insufficient in quantity, put it back over the fire with a little more stock, and if desired, a tablespoonful or two of white wine ; add salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, and serve with fried bread. For two or three persons only, less vegetables would be needed; the proportions given here are sufficient for six guests. These recipes can be multiplied to any extent with a little discretion and imagination; almost any desired or favourite vegetable ingredient treated in the same fashion can be brought into requisition for the purpose. French beans (whilst still young) or asparagus tops are desirable addenda, and in almost every case a little cream stirred in at the last minute before pouring the soup into the tureen gives (as an alternative for the yolk of an egg) a distinctly agreeable and mellow flavour to the whole. On the Continent many other plants are used, which, alas ! are not yet common in England, such as purslane, for instance, cardoons, rampion, and other vegetables which have as yet no name in the English cookery books, and are possibly not grown here. Salsifis areSoups 45 also plentifully added to ordinary soups and purees, and these are obtainable from all greengrocers in London at the proper time and season, although they are, as a rule, tougher and more stringy than those sold abroad. Other substantial soups in which the commoner vegetables have no part, can be made very successfully on a more economical scale than that indicated in larger and more fashionable cookery books. Soupe aux Champignons (Morel or Mushroom Soup).— Have some fresh morels or mushrooms (not too large) and soak them in hot water for half an hour or so ; if they are dried, they will require longer soaking. Mean- time boil an egg hard, chop it up small with some chives, chervil, parsley, marjoram, and a suspicion of mint. Mix these ingredients well together in a small basin, previously slightly rubbed with a garlic root. Take the mushrooms, &c, from the water, squeeze the moisture from them, and cut off the stalks ; make a little opening in the body of the mushroom at the root of the stalk with a sharp scoop or small spoon, and fill the same with the egg stuffing. Arrange them carefully in a stewpan, pour over them some boiling broth, and let them simmer slowly for an hour and a half. Always prepare a little over the real quantity of liquor wanted for the soup to allow for the necessary decrease after long simmering. It is usual to reckon three or four morels or mushrooms to each person, and the number of eggs for stuffing is naturally determined according to the mushrooms, &c. Take the morels out with a strainer, put them into the tureen, pour the liquor over them, and serve with fried bread. Or : cut the mushrooms or morels (after washing them thoroughly) into slices, boil them in salted water ; meantime chop some parsley and chives very fine, fry them slightly in a little butter or lard; have ready the necessary quantity of stock,46 Dainty Meals for Small Households flavoured with a tablespoonful or two of wine, or good meat gravy ; beat up the yolk of an egg in the tureen, put in the mushrooms after having strained them and tossed them in the butter with the parsley, and pour the stock over the whole. A little cream may be added if desired. Soupe aux Ecrevisses (Crayfish Soup).—For this reckon half a dozen crayfish at least to each guest. Boil them in water with a handful of coarse salt ; when they are a good colour put them into a colander to drain, break off the tails, and remove their shells so that they remain whole ; put them into a bowl with cold water, free the trunks of the crayfish from all impurities, and pound them in a mortar, shells and all, till a soft paste is obtained. Heat in a stewpan a piece of fresh butter the size of a small egg, but do not allow it to colour in the faintest degree ; put in the pounded paste, and let it become quite hot. Now add the quantity of good stock that is required for the soup, having previously removed all the fat; let this boil up once, and strain it directly into a basin. There it must remain until the reddish fat or beurre cCecrevisse shows itself on the surface. Skim it off carefully and stand it aside till wanted. Pound the crayfish paste remaining in the strainer thoroughly once more, after the moisture has completely disappeared, and repeat the whole process, using the strained liquor instead of fresh broth, but adding a little of the latter if necessary to retain the same quantity of soup. Cut some thin slices of bread, steam them in a little butter, and put them into the tureen, with (or without) the beaten yolks of two eggs ; add the tails, some seasoning, and grated nutmeg. Finally, stir the beurre cTecrevisse into the soup, let it boil up once, and pour it into the tureen. Put the cover on and serve at once, very hot. If desired, rice or pearl barley can be used instead of bread,47 Soups the latter especially giving a deliriously mellow flavour, which is highly to be recommended. In this case the rice or the pearl barley must be previously parboiled in some broth separately, and when nearly tender added to the soup when first it is being made ; otherwise the process is the same. Fausse Soupe a la Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup).—This is an excellent old-fashioned Continental recipe. Boil in the necessary quantity of water half a calf s head and a piece of the tongue. If it is found desirable to use a whole tongue, the flavour will be all the better. Skim the liquor, and after about half an hour's steady simmer- ing remove the head, &c, cut off all the meat, and remove from the tongue both the skin and the tendons. Rub each piece of meat carefully with a juicy lemon, and put it into a suitable saucepan, with good stock over and above the actual quantity required, to allow for decrease in boiling ; add a medium-sized onion studded with four or five cloves, and a small bouquet, which must be removed after the first quarter of an hour. The usual forcemeat balls can be prepared the day before, or whilst the soup is cooking. When the meat is quite tender, strain off the soup, cut the meat into dice, and the tongue in half, lengthwise; then press the latter under a weighted board ; it can then be used in different ways for delicious entrees, which will be dealt with in course of time. Boil the forcemeat balls in the strained liquor, then add the meat and plenty of seasoning. Draw the saucepan aside to let the con- tents simmer gently, and melt in about 2 ozs. of butter ; when it is hot, add nearly \ lb. of flour, and let this brown, thoroughly stirring all the time. Remove the meat and quenelles from the soup, and put them into the tureen, add (still stirring) half a pint of good white wine and two or three tablespoonfuls of strong48 Dainty Meals for Small Households meat gravy to the browned flour and butter, and when it has boiled once stir it all into the soup. Again let the whole boil once, and pour it quickly into the tureen. Fried bread or poached eggs can be served with this soup. It is very nourishing. By the kindness of Mr. E. P. Veerasawmy, the cele- brated Indian chef, I am able to give here his delicious recipe for Mulligatawny Soup. Ingredients :—One quart pure beef or mutton stock, two tablespoonfuls of Moong Dhall boiled soft in about one pint of water, one small onion finely sliced, four cloves, two cardamoms, one small stick of Indian cin- namon two inches long, I oz. butter, one dessertspoonful (heaped) of Nizam mulligatawny paste,1 one small glass of port wine, salt to taste. Into a deep saucepan put the butter, sliced onion, cloves, cardamoms and cinnamon, and cook until the onion turns a pale straw colour. Now add the heaped dessertspoonful of mulligatawny paste, stir thoroughly, cover the pan and cook the contents slowly for about five minutes, taking care that it does not burn ; next add the stock, boiled dhall and salt to taste, stir the whole thoroughly and let it boil up; strain through a coarse sieve, and then set the soup again on the fire to come to the boil, add the port wine and serve (the wine may be omitted). Bouille-Baisse.—Half to a quarter of a pound of fish will be sufficient for three or four persons, and if it can be had fresh for the purpose, it is considered better by the real lover of this dish. In this case a couple of whiting and a small piece of cod or plaice would do very well. Free it from bones as much as possible, cut into suitable slices, just large enough to prevent their being 1 All the 14 Nizam " preparations imported by Messrs. Veerasawmy & Co., of Rye Lane, London, S.E., can be had at their West End Depot, Debenham & Freebody's, Wigmore Street, London, W.49 Soups dissolved in cooking, put them into a saucepan, with a dozen or more of well-cleaned and bearded mussels, a couple of large onions cut in quarters, a bay-leaf, a couple of large tomatoes pressed through a sieve, a slice of lemon, the zest of an orange, three or four cloves, salt, pepper to taste, a pinch of saffron, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and nearly a pint of French white cooking wine.1 When this has been well stirred, and has stood over the fire for a few minutes, cover it with water, and over this pour a couple of tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Put on the lid, and let the contents simmer for about forty minutes over a brisk fire. Cut some thin slices of bread into the tureen, about two to each person : pour the soup over, and serve quickly and very hot. The bay-leaf and cloves should be tied together in a small piece of muslin so as to be removed before the soup is served. Soupe a l'Anguille (Eel Soup).—Have ready some good stock prepared with a couple of pounds of fish bones, one large leek cut in pieces, some celery, and a small turnip ; when the vegetables are quite dissolved, strain off the bones, put the stock, or as much as will be required, into a saucepan, with a teacupful of green peas, two or three pears, cored, peeled, and cut in slices, a few dried or fresh mushrooms (or even only the parings of the same), and let this simmer over a good fire for about twenty minutes; meantime have ready some suitable-sized pieces of eel, well skinned, boned, and previously par- boiled ; add these to the soup, with two or three slices of lemon, and some finely-chopped herbs, such as parsley, tarragon, chervil, and, if obtainable, a few leaves of sorrel, and two or three very fresh lettuce leaves. Season to taste, and rather plentifully. Let all this 1 Excellent cooking and dinner wines are to be had of M. L. Toursier, 81, Wardour Street, W. E50 Dainty Meals for Small Households boil gently for a few moments till the herbs are sufficiently done, thicken the soup at the last minute with a tablespoonful of flour previously browned in some butter, and serve very hot ; it is sent to table with an accompaniment of fried slices of milk rolls. If pears are disliked in the soup, they can be replaced by sprigs of cauliflower or asparagus points. Soupe an lievre (Hare Soup).—Prepare the soup in the ordinary way, with all the bones and some of the meat, onions, carrots, and usual seasoning ; strain, put back small pieces of the meat, pound the rest, and brown it in fat with a couple of tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir this into the soup, add port wine and quenelles, forcemeat, or fried bread, and serve.CHAPTER VI. SAUCES. We now come to sauces, a difficult and formidable subject; formidable because of the very important part they play in cookery ; difficult because it is no easy matter to make the average cook realize that importance. On this account it would perhaps be wise to make the first chapter of a work on cookery an exhaustive treatise on stocks and sauces, as being the foundation of so many dishes ; indeed, some authors have elected to do this, but having already insisted so strongly on the necessity of having a stock-pot, I need only add a few words here on sauces generally, before passing on to the various ways of making them. The stock-pot, as will soon be obvious, is not only indispensable for the proper manufacture of soups, but without it no good sauce can be made ; indeed, it is the lack of stock, or its poor quality, which causes the gulf so universally perceptible between the sauces of the English plain cook and those of her sister on the Continent. Besides the meat stock, fish and vegetable stock are also available for sauces, the two latter especially for Lenten and vegetarian dishes. If we take it for granted that most of the recipes given with the first-mentioned as foundation can be carried out with either of the other two, it will be superfluous to say much about the last. Fish consomme is, however, a most useful compound52 Dainty Meals for Small Households for many kinds of sauces, and for that reason the recipe for making it must follow in due course. In order properly to understand the better manipula- tion of the ingredients necessary to a good sauce, it must be remembered that it is a liquid intended as an accom- paniment to some kind of solid food, to which it must be adapted, and with which it must be blended with as much care and earnest attention as an artist might bestow in choosing his colours or a composer his harmonies. This is the main point to be considered, where a thoroughly good and artistic result is desired, and this being understood,we can then go still farther, and suggest that in the matter of seasoning, &c, a great deal can be left to the intelligence of the cook, who should under- stand better than the authors of cookery books the various individual tastes of those for whom she is working. In treating of sauces from a practical and explanatory point of view, it will be necessary to divide them, for the better understanding of the subject; the sauces meres, as they are called in French, are the actual foundations for the other compounds, and are in English commonly called standard or grand sauces. For instance, espagnole is used for all kinds of finished brown sauces, veloute for finished white sauces, bechamel for all sorts of yellow sauces with eggs, allemandes, and so forth; besides these there will be a sub-division for. cold sauces and marinades. The proper and judicious seasoning of sauces is of the utmost importance, hence it is also one in which the in- experienced cook very frequently fails; that is doubtless owing to the fact that she does not understand in the very least degree the different functions of various sub- stances employed for this purpose. After butter (which, needless to say, should be fresh), a useful adjunct, andSauces 53 one often mentioned in recipes, is anchovy butter. This is easily prepared; the desired number of anchovies (having been scalded for a minute or two, well cleaned and filleted) are pounded to a paste and mixed with the same quantity of fresh butter; when thoroughly worked together, use according to instructions. The " quatre-epices" so frequently quoted in sauce seasonings are white and black pepper, nutmeg, and cinnamon, the proportions being \ oz. of the two kinds of pepper and cinnamon respectively, to one-third of the quantity of pounded cloves. Pound all these ingredients together, sift them till they are all of the same coarseness, shake them up well, and keep them for use in an air- tight tin box. Ginger, mace, and pimento, used in addition to the above, according to taste or to some given recipe, emphasize the flavour, and are suitable to dishes that are required to be much hotter than the general run of food. As regards herbs, the common fault lies in using too many, or in using a few kinds in too large proportions, hence a rough taste which often mars an otherwise good sauce, and the same remark applies to all kinds of stews, poulettes, ragouts, &c. Parsley especially, possibly be- cause it is generally at hand, goes in indiscriminately, with fatal results, though the cause of the failure, as a rule, remains a mystery to the inexperienced operator. If it is put in as a bouquet it should be taken out some time before serving, or even some moments before strain- ing ; if chopped fine, the quantity should in all cases be very small. By way of a perpetual winter provision, it is a good plan to dry some parsley roots, pound them, and keep them in a tin ; the very smallest quantity of this substance will suffice, and the best way in which to ascertain the exact proportion is to try it and fix it according to the prevailing taste of the establishment.54 Dainty Meals for Small Households Chervil has the same properties as the above herb, except that it is much more delicate in taste, and milder in flavour. Garlic, onions, leeks, shalots, chives, celery, and bay-leaves all claim some part in the seasoning of sauces as the case may be, and variety is a thing which should never be despised. Other plants, such as thyme, mint, marjoram, basil, rosemary, and sage are useful in many cases. The best plan is to obtain them from some country garden or gardener, and to dry, pound, and store them oneself in well-stoppered glass bottles ; in this manner it is possible to ensure perfection, especially if the provision be renewed every autumn, as it should be in well-regulated households. Finally, mushrooms, either dried or in powder (preferably both), should be found in every store-room ; they are available at very moderate cost, and absolutely necessary to many ordinary dishes. More than any other branch of cookery, sauces require careful and common-sense treatment, great attention to detail, and no mechanical work. First, the needful moisture must be produced to make some firm substance more palatable, then the sauce must refine and increase the flavour of the dish to which it is destined, and it must also, if possible, make the latter more nourishing and more digestible. No art is complete without its definite purpose, to which rule cookery is no exception ; and one of the secrets of success is to keep one main object in view. We have already stated that the sauce must harmonize with the dish for which it is intended, and that can only take place if the sauce partakes, in some measure, of the nature of the thing it is to accom- pany ; though in some cases decided contrasts (such as cranberry sauce with game, or strawberry sauce with fowl) are advisable, and as much sought after by the good cook as they would be by the artist.55 Sauces Always guard against burning ; one moment's inat- tention will ruin the best ingredients ; for this reason the side-stove for charcoal, or embers, has its obvious advantages over the ordinary fire, which is often very fierce ; let the stirring always be even (especially where flour has been used), and always in the same direction ; gas, of course, is safe to use. Before giving the actual recipes, a word must be said about various liaisons—viz. approved thickening for sauces, the object of which is to bring the sauce to a proper consistency ; on this the success of the whole dish often depends, and although in actually operating it is usually the last thing added, it is advisable to put it first on our list. Without attempting to soar to the mysteries of high- class cookery, it will be sufficient for our purpose to mention the four principal liaisons :— Liaison a Tallemande.—This is made separately over the fire, with flour dissolved either in water, milk, or stock, as the case may be, and in varying proportions. It should be strained through a hair sieve, and is added to the sauce under treatment by being steadily and slowly poured into the latter, stirring briskly all the time, and for five or six minutes in all, with a wooden ladle. Liaison au Roux.—Consists of flour and butter, cooked over a very slack fire, in order to obtain the required dark colour without any risk of burning, or otherwise impairing the taste. Contrary to the above- mentioned sauce, this is usually made beforehand, and kept for use as required. When the above ingredients have attained the right colour, moisten with stock, stirring briskly until the mixture boils ; stand it aside to simmer for an hour, remove the fat, and strain into a gallipot to store it till wanted. It is best to make a little at a time, and to store it in a cool place. It can be mixed56 Dainty Meals for Small Households in quantities varying according to necessity, in the pro- portions of a j lb. of fresh butter to f lb. of flour. If the stock is cold, stir it over the fire as above, but if it is hot, take the pan off the fire for a minute or so, and then only stir in the liquid very slowly. Liaison a l'ceuf (or egg thickening).—The great secret concerning this particular thickening, which so often fails or causes the sauce to curdle, lies in allowing the mixture to which it is to be added to cool for three or four minutes before it is added. When the eggs have been well beaten up, a little of the sauce should be stirred in, and then only should the egg mixture be poured into the bulk of the sauce ; this should be standing ready over the fire, and must be stirred with a wooden ladle until the liquid just boils. The fourth kind is the butter (or butter and cream thickening) of which I have already spoken whilst treat- ing of soups. Here again there is a fault to be avoided ; this lies in adding the butter too soon ; it should only be put in at the last moment. The last addition of fresh butter for thickening purposes is also intended to impart a certain taste to the sauce or soup concerned, and this would be entirely lost unless it were added just before taking the pan off the fire, to serve its contents. The same remark applies either to butter alone, or to a mixture of butter or cream ; in either case the two must be added just before the pan is removed from the fire. Now for the Sauces-Meres ; first, however, it must be noticed that the allemande thickening recommended above is not the real allemande, one of the chief " sauces-meres." This is the least economical, perhaps, of all the great foundations, and can easily be dispensed with in small households. At the same time, this thickening will, in many cases, be found a valuable substitute for the more elaborate and bona fide substance.57 Sauces One of the secrets of economical cookery, when it is to be linked with daintiness, lies in understanding such details. Although apparently trifling, they often help to produce the most delicious dishes at small cost. The three essential points, then, in the manufacture of the standard sauces are these : good butter, judicious seasoning, and proper thickening. A fourth desideratum consists in removing the fat very carefully. To do this, take the stewpan off the fire and pour in a few drops of cold water. This will send all the fat to the surface, so that it can easily be taken off with a spoon. Blotting- paper is also very effectual. Flour or potato fecula can be used indiscriminately. Some people prefer the latter, but in this case be very careful to take the pan off the fire promptly, otherwise the sauce will become thin. Sauce Espagnole (Brown).—Put into a stewpan a piece of fresh butter, with any lean remains of different kinds of meat, beef or veal, game or fowl, a slice or two of ham, &c. ; add a couple of medium-sized onions, two carrots cut into slices, a sprig of thyme, a couple of cloves, pepper and salt. When the contents begin to colour, add a sprinkling of flour, moisten with the suitable quantity of stock, put in a bouquet garni, and let the whole simmer over the fire for two or three hours ; skim, remove the fat, strain and put aside for use with other sauces. Veloute.—Melt some fresh butter in the pan, and in this brown a fewT mushrooms or morels, with scraps of ham and a slice of veal ; when coloured, add the white stock, and let it simmer over the fire for an hour at least ; remove the meat and add a teacupful of cream ; stir gently in the same direction, whilst the sauce is simmer- ing over a slack fire for a quarter of an hour ; season moderately, and when sufficiently thick, strain and keep58 Dainty Meals for Small Households for use. This kind of sauce is not generally considered suitable as an accompaniment to game. Coulis.—Melt a little fresh butter in a small pan, or pipkin; add to this any lean remains of fowl, trimmings of veal, &c; put on the lid, and let the contents simmer over the fire slowly until they begin to colour ; put in two carrots, some small onions (or one medium-sized sliced), and a teacupful of water. Cover up, and allow the whole to simmer gently for one hour, after which pour in two breakfast-cupfuls of good stock. (Here, again, it is important to keep to the time prescribed, hurrying, as observed before, being the principal cause of failure among those English cooks who are willing, and sometimes anxious, to try their hand at what they are pleased to term " foreign cooking.") When the stock has been added, the preparation must simmer slowly for four hours over a slow fire, and only at the end of that time should the coulis be freed from fat, strained, and put by for use. In cool weather it keeps good for several days. Sauce de Reserve.—Put into a stewpan a pint or more of white cooking wine (French), the same quantity of stock, salt and pepper to taste, the rind of one lemon, one small bay-leaf, and a few drops of vinegar. This mixture must simmer for eight or ten hours (the latter preferably) before it is in good condition. It keeps well, and is most useful in emergencies, especially as it can be seasoned, or otherwise adapted to almost any kind of dish by the addition of other ingredients. A small piece of fresh butter worked with flour makes an excellent thickening, for instance; or with the addition of a slight roux a very good sauce blonde will be produced, and so on. Another good recipe for a reserve sauce is the following:— Make a light roux with, say, 4 ozs. of fresh butter and five tablespoonfuls of flour (of course, the quantities given here,Sauces 59 which are intended for a small household, can be reduced or increased, as required); moisten with some consomme, or plain stock, and a little meat gravy ; let this gently simmer for three hours. Skim carefully whenever necessary, and at five different intervals during the three hours ladle out some of the mixture, hold the ladle high above the saucepan and drop back the contents, so that they are thoroughly well mixed. Strain into a jar ; when cold cover over the surface with a layer of butter to keep out the air. This jelly is not only good as a garniture to cold dishes, &c, but makes an excellent foundation. It is in the posses- sion of such things that a good housewife shows fore- thought and experience. The bechamel so constantly mentioned in the best culinary works, can be made very simply for home use. For instance, boil together about one-third of a pint of good fresh milk with some flour, and stir steadily for about twenty-five minutes ; the latter ingredient should not be put in too plentifully, as it is merely needed to bring the mixture to the consistency of cream. At the end of this time add nearly \ oz. of white sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of chopped parsley. After these have been thoroughly well incorporated by stirring, draw the pan off the fire, and put in 2 ozs. of fresh butter and the yolks of two eggs. Naturally this has no pretension to be exactly similar to the substance of the same name prepared according to recipes, in really high-class books ; but the born cook (and so many general servants on the Continent love the art) always finds an economical substitute for preparations to which the means at her disposal do not allow her to aspire. Here, again, there exists a preparation (another mono- poly of Messrs. Cosenza & Co.) which is invaluable for60 Dainty Meals for Small Households the store cupboard. It consists of a perfect substitute for the three principal French foundation sauces. The word substitute is ill-advised, for all the ingredients required for the sauces are contained in each kind ; to M. Charles Driessens, the celebrated French chef and philanthropist, belongs the credit of having succeeded in preserving these sauces so that they can now be obtained in small or large quantities, and practically ready for use. This is all the more satisfactory that in ordinary house- holds the preparation of the sauces, where a small amount is needed, is unnecessarily extravagant. The Driessauces are sold in glass jars and are named according to their colour : the dark (or italienne), the brown (or espagnole), and the pale (or allemande). By the mere addition of water, or other simple ingre- dients specified in the instructions sent to every purchaser, such things as Provengale, Portuguaise, Piquante, Peri- gueux, Robert, Bechamel, &c, &c, can be produced for the smallest dish at a few minutes' notice. Now as to sauces in general. Some of these being particularly suitable for use with fish only, must be dealt with first; they are not so numerous as those commonly served with meat, game, &c. Blonde. — Put into a small stewpan a cupful of good stock, a small piece of fresh butter, one onion (sliced), salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a claret- tumblerful of cooking wine; if desired, add a few morels or mushrooms, chopped small. Let this boil slowly for three-quarters of an hour, and draw off the fire ; when it has cooled a little, put the yolks of three or four eggs into a basin, and, whilst stirring them briskly, pour the sauce over them. Return this mixture to the saucepan, place it over some hot embers, and let it remain there, without boiling, until it thickens. Just before serving add a few drops of lemon juice, or of good white wine61 Sauces vinegar; strain, and serve with almost any kind of fish. NeucMtel.—Infuse a pinch of mace in a table- spoonful of white wine vinegar for three or four hours (it may be done over night with advantage); strain it into a basin, add 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of fresh butter and some pepper and salt; stand the bowl in a saucepan containing boiling water, or in a bain-marie, and stir steadily until the mixture is thick; add a sprinkling of finely-chopped herbs if desired, and serve with boiled fish. Genevoise.—Put into a saucepan two tablespoon- fuls of white wine vinegar, and reduce over the fire by rather more than half, add a pinch of salt and of pepper; draw it off the fire, and put in two tablespoonfuls of cold water and the yolks of two eggs. Have ready \ lb. of fresh butter and divide it into five parts, stir the contents of the saucepan over a slack fire, draw it aside, put in one part of butter, stir till it has quite melted, put it over the fire again for three minutes. Repeat this process of adding the butter with two more parts, then add two tablespoon- fuls of cold water again; this time leave it over the fire until it shows signs of boiling, then finish by adding separately, as before, the two remaining parts of butter; season plentifully, and serve. This recipe, which sounds complicated, can be carried out very quickly, and is all the better for brisk working. It is deservedly a great favourite. Another way (Geneva Sauce):—Brown in 2 ozs. of fresh butter over a slack fire one large onion, half a dozen mushrooms, one carrot (sliced), and after a time add a pinch of finely-chopped parsley and of thyme, half a dozen cloves, a little grated nutmeg, and a small bay- leaf. When the onion and the carrot are tender, add about a pint of stock; cover, and let the whole simmer slowly for one hour. Strain the liquor into a clean62 Dainty Meals for Small Households saucepan, make a roux with a tablespoonful of butter and flour respectively, stir it into the sauce; put it over the fire, season, add a claret-glassful of white wine, and the juice of half a lemon, and let it reduce till it has attained the proper consistency. About five minutes before serving, stir in half a dozen sardines, skinned, boned, and finely chopped; let the whole boil up once and serve. Aigre (Sour Sauce).—Mix together in a sauce- pan without beating them a couple of eggs, add a claret- tumblerful of cold water, half that quantity of white wine vinegar,1 and stir it over the fire till it begins to boil. At this point put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut, well worked with flour, and stir it off the fire until the latter ingredient is melted. Season and serve when the mixture is of the same consistency as custard. a la Creme Aigre (Sour Cream Sauce).—Roll a little fresh butter in some flour (2 ozs. or 3 ozs. for a small quantity of sauce), put it into a stewpan with the yolk of one egg (or more according to requirement) and a tablespoonful of sour cream ; stir these ingredients steadily over the fire for one minute, then add the need- ful quantity of stock with a little of the liquor in which the fish has been boiled or otherwise prepared. Season with pepper and salt, a little nutmeg, and put in some lemon juice. Stir continually until the sauce boils, when it will be ready to serve. au Hareng (Herring Sauce).—This is eaten with some kinds of meat in certain parts of Germany ; but it is principally suited to fish. Soak a smoked herring in enough lukewarm milk and water to cover it; it should previously be skinned and boned, and one half only should be used for a small party. After a couple of 1 Strong, good white wine vinegar can be had of Mme. Ursch, 46, Dean Street, Soho, London, W. The price is very moderate.Sauces 63 hours pound it in a mortar, or merely crush it to avoid lumps appearing in the sauce. Brown in a little butter some flour, some sliced onions, and one shallot; when the colour is well marked stir in as much water as will form a creamy substance. Put in the herring, a plentiful seasoning of pepper, half a bay-leaf, a slice of lemon or a few drops of vinegar; mix these well, let them simmer for five minutes, add the necessary quantity of broth or gravy to complete the sauce, the yolk of one egg, and let it boil; just before serving stir in a small piece of butter. Remove the lemon, &c., before sending it to table. Blanche (more especially to be used as an accessory).—Stir in a small saucepan some flour and a sprinkling of cold water; when smooth put it over the fire, and, still stirring, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and gradually the required quantity of boiling stock; when sufficiently boiled, and naturally slightly reduced, put in a small lump of butter, stirring till it has melted and the sauce is ready. Or, put into a saucepan 1 oz. of butter, and very nearly as much flour; stir them till the latter is incorporated with the former, season to taste, and add a claret-glassful of warm stock or even water. Put this over the fire, and stir till the sauce thickens; then put in 2 ozs. of butter, in three or four lumps, at short intervals. Draw the pan aside, and stir till the butter is quite melted. These white sauces are apt to turn, either from too much or too little stirring; they can, however, easily be restored to the proper condition by dropping in a little cold water or a tiny piece of ice, and stirring till it thickens again. a la Moutarde (Mustard Sauce).—Brown in some butter a tablespoonful of flour ; add a finely-sliced onion and some meat or fish stock as required. After stirring a little, add some grated lemon rind, three or four cloves,64 Dainty Meals for Small Households pepper and salt to taste, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, and let all simmer for a quarter of an hour. Then add three tablespoonfuls of mustard, mix the ingredients thoroughly, let it boil gently till quite smooth, pass it through a fine sieve, and serve very hot. aux Capres (Caper Sauce).—Stir a dessertspoon- ful of flour in enough water to dissolve it easily; to this add the necessary quantity of stock, half a lemon sliced (without pips), the required seasoning, a pinch of cayenne, and one piece of mace ; stir this over the fire till it has boiled, then thicken with the yolks of two or three eggs, according to the quantity of sauce. Leave the stewpan over the fire, without allowing the contents to boil again ; add a sherry-glassful of capers, two or three small pieces of fresh butter, and stir till the latter are dissolved. Strain while very hot into the sauce-boat, and serve with any kind of fish. Good fresh cream may be added instead of butter. aux Sardines (Sardine Sauce). — Thoroughly brown in about 3 ozs. of fresh butter a heaped table- spoonful of flour ; into this put plenty of seasoning, a tablespoonful of cream, and the trimmed chopped fillets of half a dozen sardines ; add the necessary amount of stock ; let it boil and reduce, strain whilst boiling. Saxonne.—Brown some flour a deep colour in fresh butter ; add fish or meat stock, finely-chopped chervil, shallots, half a sprig of tarragon, a sherry- glassful of brandy, and one of white wine (or no brandy and a tumblerful of white wine) ; stir well over the fire till nearly boiling, then put in seasoning to taste and one heaped teaspoonful of mustard powder. When it boils, squeeze in the juice of half a small lemon ; let the sauce reduce, and add a small lump of fresh butter just before serving.Sauces 65 Hollandaise.—This can be made with or without wine, and is excellent either plain or with the addition of oysters or a puree of sardines. The latter is very common in some parts of the Continent ; it is prepared in different ways. One of the most usual is exactly similar to the recipe given for Sauce Ge?tevoise) only the butter is added at longer intervals, and the mixture finished off with the juice of half a lemon. Or : mix the yolks of two or three eggs with a sprinkling of flour and a little water or white wine ; when quite smooth add just before it boils a blade of mace, and a couple of peppercorns and cloves ; stir over the fire till it has boiled, add from \ lb. to \ lb. of butter (according to the quantity of sauce required), putting it in gradually in small pieces, or the butter can be mixed first with a little white wine vinegar. The above are more essentially suited to fish ; others generally used with meat, game, &c, now follow. an jus.—Put into a stewpan some good veal gravy with a teacupful of meat stock, a small lump of butter worked with flour, some finely-chopped parsley and tarragon, a few whole shallots, sliced onions, a few drops of vinegar, the juice of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir over the fire, and let the whole simmer steadily until the onions are quite soft and tender. Strain through a fine sieve and keep hot till wanted. It is important to remember this point, for even the best of cooks are apt to forget it, and mistresses do not insist upon it strongly enough. The most elaborately prepared sauce, from which the first heat has been allowed to pass off, loses all its charm in the eyes of those who know. On this account the bain-marie is so useful ; if the sauce is strained into the pots belonging to the bain-marie, it can be kept quite hot until wanted; above all, the sauce-boat should always be heated. The above sauce, F66 Dainty Meals for Small Households made from a common Continental recette bourgeoises is nothing more than a rich gravy which serves as a suitable accompaniment to every kind of roast meat. Unless specially stated, the butter referred to in most of these ordinary sauces is the preserved butter, or beurre fondu ; good fat is available instead. Fresh butter is rarely used in small households, except in elaborate recipes, or for the finishing off of certain special sauces, but not where the browning of flour, onions, &c, is concerned. Rousse (for Stews, &c).—Brown some flour in butter; add in sufficient quantity for the purpose in view equal quantities of stock and white or red wine (the latter if the sauce is to be dark), some onions (say three, one of which can be studded with four or five cloves), a suspicion of garlic, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste. Let it cook and boil rather freely, about twenty minutes in all. Foulette.—This is also for stews, but is more suitable for veal, fowl, and white meats generally, as it is much lighter in colour than the former. Put a piece of fresh butter in a stewpan over the fire, and stir into this a tablespoonful of flour ; when quite dissolved and smooth, add a breakfast-cupful of stock, the necessary seasoning, one small onion, and a pinch of nutmeg. Cook this, as above, for twenty minutes ; thicken it with a tiny piece of butter and the yolk of an egg,, and finish off with a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. Maitre d'Hotel.—Put into a saucepan nearly \ lb. of good fresh butter, with plenty of salt and pepper and the juice of half a lemon. Stir over a slack fire until the butter is nearly melted ; draw the saucepan aside, and go on stirring until it is quite dissolved and the mixture perfectly smooth. This way of cooking the maitre d'hotel, though very simple, produces a par- ticularly agreeable result. By mixing some sauce blancheSauces 67 with the above, the maitre d'hotel sauce will be thickened in the best possible manner. aux Ecrevisses.—Boil a dozen small crayfish, remove the tails and roes, pound the bodies in a mortar, strain through a fine sieve all the liquor they will yield, and mix it with the tails and roes. Make a white sauce with some fresh butter and stock, add the prepared mixture and season it plentifully. This is excellent, either with fish or with sweetbread, brains, calves' ears, and fricandeau of veal. Eobert.—Melt some lard over the fire ; when it is hot, put in three or four sliced onions, toss them until they are quite yellow and tender ; add some good stock, salt and pepper to taste, a little nutmeg, mustard, and vinegar. Let this simmer for one hour, thicken slightly, strain, and serve very hot. Piquante.—When made with fresh butter, this goes very well with grilled dishes. Beat to a cream a lump of fresh butter, stir it over the fire, steadily adding the while finely-chopped parsley and chives, and finish off with a tablespoonful of vinegar. Italienne.—Put a piece of butter in a pan with one shallot, some chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of vinegar, stir it over the fire till the vinegar has quite evaporated ; then add a tablespoonful of flour and a breakfast-cupful of good broth ; stir while it simmers, and let it boil slowly for five minutes. au Beurre (Melted Butter) [good with vegetables]. —Melt I lb. of butter in a pipkin au bain-marie, stir it as soon as it softens, and add, one after the other, the yolks of three or four eggs; pepper and salt to taste. When the mixture is thick and smooth, finish with a little vinegar or lemon juice. (For very small quantities use only 2 ozs. of butter and one or two eggs.) aux Tomates (Tomato Sauce).—Put some fresh68 Dainty Meals for Small Households tomatoes, wiped clean and cut in halves or quarters, over the fire ; when tender press them through a fine sieve, so that everything except the pulp and pips is brought into use. Put this puree into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of flour, a piece of fresh butter, plenty of seasoning ; moisten with a little stock, and let the sauce simmer to boiling point for quite twenty minutes. Utile (useful sauce for game and all kinds of dark meat).—Brown some flour a very dark brown in butter ; add half a pint of water and one of good stock, plentiful seasoning, one medium-sized onion, with three or four cloves, a few juniper berries, and two or three pepper- corns. Pound the liver of the game destined to be warmed up, or some chicken's liver, and any available " trimmings " of bacon, game or venison. Let this simmer together for one hour, add a claret-glassful of old red wine, again simmer for three-quarters of an hour, strain, and stew the game or venison in it. aux Oignons (Onion Sauce).—Put over the fire half a dozen large onions, sliced very thin, with a lump of fresh butter ; whilst they are simmering add a drop of water occasionally, to keep the onions white ; the fire should be very slack. When the onions are reduced to a puree add a tablespoonful of flour, a teacupful of cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. This is a delicious accompaniment to parsnips, salsifis, Jerusalem artichokes, &c. Or : for use with roast meat; brown some flour in butter, add a couple of large onions finely sliced ; stew them and steam them for about ten minutes ; stir in a teacupful of gravy, plenty of seasoning, a little lemon juice, and boil once or twice. This simple recipe gives very good results. aux Champignons (Mushroom Sauce).—Pare six or eight large mushrooms, cut them in slices, and stew them in butter with some finely-chopped parsley, chervil,Sauces 69 and a sprig of tarragon ; sprinkle plentifully with flour. Add some broth, stir it till it boils, and, if possible, finish off with two tablespoonfuls of sour cream. ail Via (Wine Sauce).—Put a piece of butter or good lard into a small saucepan with half a celery root, one carrot, three or four sprigs of parsley, one bay-leaf, and a slice of bacon, all well chopped ; add a teacupful of stock, and let it simmer until it is reduced and turning brown ; stir in some brown espagnole and stock in equal quantities to the amount required ; let it boil, remove all the fat, pour the sauce through a sieve, put it back over the fire, add a tiny lump of fresh butter, a wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, and the juice of half a lemon, and stir continually till the sauce has boiled and thickened. Mushrooms or morels can be added, if desired. aux Sardines (Brown Sardine Sauce).—Stir some flour over the fire in a little butter or good dripping, until it is of a golden colour, add a sufficient quantity of stock, the grated zest of half a lemon, a couple of cloves, and a sherry-glassful of cooking wine ; skin and bone half a dozen sardines, chop them up, with a small slice of onion and a sprig of tarragon, stir these into the sauce till it boils, and serve with roast beef or mutton. aux Huitres (Oyster Saace).—Open and beard some good cooking oysters, put the liquor aside ; heat a little butter in a stewpan, and in this steam the oysters so that they may not be tough ; add a heaped table- spoonful of fine breadcrumbs (preferably a milk roll) and some grated lemon zest; cover and let it simmer awhile; put in the necessary amount of broth or good gravy to finish the sauce, the liquor of the oysters, a few drops of lemon juice, a pinch of nutmeg, and a couple of table- spoonfuls of wine ; stir all well together, let it boil, and serve with roast fowls, ducks, capons, &c. ■ au Eaifort (Horseradish).—Scrape a sufficient70 Dainty Meals for Small Households quantity of the root, add nearly the same amount of fine breadcrumbs ; stir into this a tablespoonful of cold milk, add another of flour, and one of chopped almonds (previously blanched). When these ingredients are thoroughly amalgamated to a smooth paste put them into a pipkin over the fire, and pour in (stirring all the while) enough boiling milk to bring the same to a proper consistency ; finally, add a pinch of sugar, one of nut- meg, a little salt if desired, and go on stirring till the sauce has boiled. Or it can be prepared in a similar way, using good stock and a little piece of fresh butter instead of milk. Now come a variety of cold sauces, at the head of which may be placed the useful mayonnaise ; there are two or three ways of preparing it, though it is always made on the same principle, with oil as the chief ingredient. Mayonnaise.—Use a china pestle and mortar if they are at hand in preference to a basin and spoon. Stir the yolks of two eggs with a few drops of vinegar ; add drop by drop, stirring all the while in the same direction, four tablespoonfuls of good salad oil; this should take about twenty minutes to be really successful; when the mixture is very thick, add the desired quantity of vinegar, pouring it in slowly, salt and pepper to taste ; if it is made some time before it is required it should stand in a cool place until the hour of serving. Or, stir in the mortar the yolk of one egg, some salt, pepper, and mustard ; when these are thoroughly well mixed, add the oil as before, then the vinegar to taste ; just before serving, stir in a dessertspoonful of cream. Or, pound the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, then stir in the raw yolk of one, and proceed as in the last recipe. Tartare.—This is merely a variation of the above, to be served principally with fried fish, rissoles, fish or hotSauces 7* meat. It is made with tarragon vinegar, and finely- chopped fines herbes (especially tarragon and chives) are stirred into the sauce. Or make it as follows :—Chop up the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, with some shallots, parsley, and chervil; add a little olive oil, salt, mustard, and pepper ; pound all this to a smooth paste, put in more oil to thicken it, then enough tarragon vinegar to flavour it rather sharply. Ravigote.—Chop up two or three shallots with a sprig of parsley, put them in a sauce-boat; add three tablespoonfuls of olive oil; put in salt, pepper, and mustard to taste, and finally stir in the desired quantity of vinegar. Piquante aux Anchois (with Anchovies).—Fillet two or more anchovies, after having soaked them for two minutes in boiling water to clean them and free them from salt. Drain off the moisture, chop them up with some chives, parsley, tarragon, &c.; put into a sauce-boat a tablespoonful of oil and vinegar mixed with salt and pepper; then stir in very slowly three tablespoonfuls of oil, vinegar to taste, and finally the anchovies and the herbs. Serve with cold meat of any kind or with grilled pork chops. -— a la Creme (Cream Sauce).—Chop very fine a small onion, some parsley, two sardines skinned and boned, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Put them into a boat with a tablespoonful of fine breadcrumbs (milk roll, if possible), add salt to taste, stir in one table- spoonful of olive oil, one of vinegar, or more if desired, and two of good thick fresh or sour cream. Of course, the flavour differs according to the state of the cream, but it is a matter of taste. When the mixture is smooth, serve with hot or cold beef; it is preferably served with the former. Aux Harengs (Herring).—Choose a good red72 Dainty Meals for Small Households herring with a fine soft roe, soak it in milk, skin and bone it carefully, pound all the best part of the flesh in a mortar, with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and some finely-chopped shallot; grate a small, sharp apple, and add it to the rest, press all this through a sieve, together with the roe, and season it with oil, vinegar, and plenty of pepper. a la Diable (Hot Sauce).—Moisten the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a few drops of tarragon vinegar, stir them in a mortar whilst adding two tablespoonfuls of olive oil in drops; then, being careful to stir all the time, put in one after the other three tablespoonfuls of red wine, one of mustard, the juice of one lemon, white pepper, salt, the quarter of a sharp apple finely chopped, a pinch of sugar, and enough vinegar to just flavour the whole; stir all these ingredients together till all traces of oil disappear and the mixture is perfectly smooth; serve with cold meat, boar's head, ham, &c. a la Gelee (Jelly Sauce).—Mix together two or three tablespoonfuls of meat jelly (set thick stock), with two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, three of tarragon vinegar, chopped shallots and parsley, pepper, salt, and a dessert- spoonful of cream. When quite smooth and thick serve with game or poultry. an Eaifort (Horseradish).—Scrape a horseradish; sprinkle it freely with castor sugar, and let it stand for about an hour; stir into it enough sharp wine vinegar to thoroughly moisten it; then add, stirring all the time, about half a gill of fresh cream. It must be remembered that the peculiarly delicious flavour of many cold sauces served abroad, often missed in those made at home, although the same recipes may be used, is produced by rubbing the sauce-boat with a clove of garlic, or by the addition of what is commonly called garlic water, which every Continental bonne d toutSauces 73 faire generally keeps in stock. It is easily made :—Peel a garlic root, chop it and pound it, soak it in water for half an hour, then press it through a sieve; bottle this essence, and use it very sparingly. Essence of Anchovies is also a very useful preparation^ and can be made at home very satisfactorily. Bone twelve anchovies, and put aside the liquor that drains from them. Boil them in a tumblerful of water, until they are quite dissolved; strain and put into a small bottle. Cork and keep in a cool place ; this will last a long time, and a very few drops will flavour any sauce or stew. Another excellent reserve flavouring for all kinds of dishes can be made thus :—Put into a stone pot about one pint of white wine, two tablespoonfuls of wine vinegar, nearly a quarter of a pound of salt, a teaspoonful of white and black peppercorns respectively, half a dozen cloves, a pinch of nutmeg, half a dozen morels, four bay- leaves, ten crushed shallots, a handful of parsley, garlic according to taste, a teaspoonful of coriander seed, one sliced carrot, one large sliced onion, two sprigs of thyme, six of chervil, the tops of a head of celery, and two or three sprigs of tarragon; let this boil over the fire, then let it simmer gently without boiling on some hot embers for at least six or seven hours. Strain it through a cloth, and store in small bottles. A few drops will make delicious and very effective flavouring at any time when it is not easy to obtain the usual necessary ingredients. Note the difference between gravy and sauce; the former (French jus) is the juice or extract running from the meat under treatment. Gravy, as the word is applied to a mixture compounded from several ingre- dients, especially flour or other thickening, colourings, &c, is no longer the French jus.CHAPTER VII. FISH. Fish is the next object for our consideration, and there is perhaps no more useful article of food, for unlike many others, it can be utilized in almost every course, sweets excepted bien entendu. Delicious soups, dainty hors d'ceuvre, excellent releves, cold and hot entrees, impor- tant dishes of all kinds, and savouries without number can be produced by its help, besides which it is invaluable for quenelles, farce or stuffings ; and whether it be fresh, salted, smoked, or pickled, it is both nourishing and welcome at our table. Obviously, too, it may by some be considered as more generally useful even than meat, as it is permitted on fast as well as feast days, and not objected to by some vegetarians. As concerns the choice of fish, there is much to be said of which the average housewife may be ignorant ; the question of freshness, for instance, is an all-important one; indeed, a disregard of the same often leads to disastrous results in the way of serious indisposition ; then, again, it must not be eaten out of season, even though it may be on sale and very appetizing in appearance. In choosing fish, the principal points to be observed are these : the eyes and scales should be clear and bright, the inside of the gills of a bright or vivid red, and the fish itself must be firm to the touch ; pale gills and a flabby body are to be avoided like poison. With one or two exceptions inFish 75 the case of larger kinds, very little time should be allowed to elapse between killing and cooking, whereas in some instances (as with eels, trout, &c.) they must be purchased alive to be in proper condition. The following list, which it is hardly possible to give here in the most exhaustive manner, will be, at any rate, some guide to our readers as to the season at which the principal kinds of fish are at their best. Barbel, from October to January ; bass, April to August; bream, September to February; brill, September to March ; carp, except during its close time (which is April and May), is eaten more or less all the year round, but the best time is from October to March ; cod, October to April ; dace, October to February ; dory, almost all the year round, but principally from March to the New Year ; eels, except in June and July, are very edible at any time, but are in their prime from October to April; gurnet, September to February ; herring, April to December; mackerel, May to August. Though this fish may be ob- tained during the colder months, it should be chosen with care ; it should be bright, and have a silver hue ; when it is red about the head it is not in good condition. Pike, Octo- ber to February, but is also to be had from the beginning of August. Salmon : In England the real season is from February to August ; but when it is obtainable from the northern coast of Germany it may be enjoyed for a longer period. The close time is from October to February (in England it is tabooed in September). Skate is not fre- quently seen on English tables, but there are dainty ways of preparing it; it is in season from October to April. Smelt, October to April ; sole is edible at almost any time of the year, but the best time is from June to February ; sturgeon, from November to March ; trout, where it is obtainable, is not to be eaten in April or May, the best month is August ; turbot may be had duringj6 Dainty Meals for Small Households the larger part of the year, it is excellent from October to March, and hardly obtainable in June ; whitebait, March to August; whiting, from September to March at its best, but to be had nearly all the year round. Oysters, as everyone knows by the popular saying, are not to be eaten during the months in which there is no ur" ; in buying them it is well not to be anxious for great economy, especially since certain diseases have been said to result from the poor condition of this shellfish. When tinned, they should be avoided, by invalids above all. This remark as to the season for oysters is applicable to most shellfish, which is at its best from October to April. Crabs are good from May to August. Lobster is in season from February to October, and mussels from September to March. This list, as I observed above, is by no means a complete enumeration of edible fish, but touches principally on those for the preparation of which recipes shall follow in these pages. For the benefit of those who are fortunate enough to be owners of good streams or fish-ponds, or are otherwise in the way of obtaining fish as soon as it is caught, a few remarks as to the best ways of treating it may not be amiss here. After scaling the fish (which should be done quickly with a sharp knife), it must be split open carefully to be cleaned out, and in doing this be careful to remove all the gall; then rinse it out thoroughly, and rub it over with salt to remove all superfluous moisture that may adhere to it, but never lay it or let it stand in plain water. If it is only required to keep for a day or twenty- four hours, for instance, wrap it in a clean cloth previously wrung out in strong salt and water ; the cloth for this purpose should not be too large, but should merely wrap round the fish; abroad, in the neighbourhood of good fishing places especially, the kitchen linen cupboard contains cloths of various sizes kept for this one purpose.Fish 77 In order to keep the fish for two or three days in a moderate temperature (for it is naturally hardly advisable to attempt such things in any great heat), they should be cleaned, dried inside and out, and thoroughly sprinkled with finely-powdered sugar, then stood carefully in a cold, dry place. When the fish is sufficiently boiled, it generally comes to the surface of the liquor in which it has been cooked, and the fins can be easily removed; but it is a great mistake to overboil it, so that it is in any way broken or disfigured ; large fish should always be boiled in a proper fish kettle containing a holder, by means of which the contents may be lifted out without risk. When fish is to be baked, it is an excellent plan, especially with the larger kinds, to lard them carefully ; they can then be either put into a brisk oven, or, if more convenient, can be prepared in a frying-pan ; in this case, however, the fire must be fierce and clear, and the operation should be very rapid, otherwise the fish will become sodden instead of crisp, as it should be in its state of perfection. Finally, if the fish is to be served cold, it should be removed from the liquor in which it has been cooked as soon as it is done; both fish and liquor must be set to cool thoroughly ; the fish can then be replaced in the cold liquor, and kept there till it is wanted for the table. If grilled, be careful always to heat the gridiron before putting the fish upon it; this remark also applies to the patent fish griller mentioned in Chapter III. Now, as it is my object to emphasize dainty cooking, it may be well to observe at this point that boiling fish in plain water is almost an unknown thing with the foreign cook, even in the most modest households ; to relieve the monotony which must result from such a proceeding, a special broth is made and kept in stock as a matter of course, and varies for fresh and salt-water fish. This is called court bouillon, whilst another expression is cooking the fish "au bleu." The78 Dainty Meals for Small Households court bouillon for fresh-water fish can be prepared with white cooking wine or vinegar, as most convenient. For instance, put three pints of water over the fire, with two carrots, two onions, roughly cut in pieces, a garlic root, two or three cloves, a bay-leaf, a small handful of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste ; let it boil for one hour, strain it, and put the liquor back over the fire with the same quantity of white wine (or half the quantity of good white vinegar), and let it boil. It can be kept fresh for several days, in winter for a longer time, by boiling it up every two or three days, adding each time a small tumblerful of water. Where fish is eaten every day, or two or three times a week, this liquor can be used over and over again ; it is merely a question of getting into the habit of having a fish stock pot as well as one for meat, and it should be the business of the English housewife to exact that this should be done as a matter of course ; then it will not be looked upon as an extra and ufaddy" piece of work. For all salt-water fish the preparation differs slightly from the above ; it is made according to the size of the fish, with equal quantities of milk and water, and a fair seasoning of salt and pepper ; the milk helps to preserve the whiteness of the flesh. Some salt-water fish require to be boiled in a wine or vinegar court bouillon, but the best succeed far better with the milk. In any case it will be stated when vinegar should be used. Besides this process there are other general ways of cooking fish— viz. en matelote (of which there are three kinds), the bourgeoise, the vierge, and the mariniere en fritnre— i.e. a common frying process—and, finally, an vin (in wine). Each of these preparations is suited in a whole- sale manner, so to speak, to certain classes of fish which will be indicated with each recipe. Matelote applies to carp, eels, barbel, pike, and hake. Clean, trim, and cut the79 Fish fish in pieces ; put into a saucepan a bouquet of parsley, thyme, one bay-leaf, two or three chives, a couple of cloves, a garlic root, and on this place the fish ; cover with equal quantities of red wine and stock, season plentifully, and set this over the fire to boil briskly for about twenty minutes, moistening with more stock the while, if necessary. Now proceed with the matelote bourgeoise as follows : Put into a large stewpan a lump of butter and about a score of button onions, toss them till they assume a golden colour, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and moisten with the liquor, which should mean- time have been strained off the fish. Put the fish aside to keep hot. Stir the matelote over the fire, put in some chopped mushrooms or morels and a squeeze of lemon, or a few drops of vinegar. Let the mixture simmer and boil gently till reduced to the desired quantity (if the onions should not be quite tender by this time, add a little water, and let it boil a few minutes longer). Arrange the fish on a suitable dish, cover it with the matelote, garnish with fried bread, and serve very hot. a la Mariniere.—Prepare the fish as above; when it is tender put it aside to keep hot ; strain the liquor ; put it back over the fire with a port wineglassful of brandy or plain eau-de-vie, let it boil for a quarter of an hour, it will then be sufficiently reduced ; thicken the sauce with a piece of butter worked with flour, and five minutes before serving add some button onions and chopped mushrooms, previously slightly browned in butter ; serve hot as before. Vierge.—Boil the fish in pieces with a bouquet garni, two parts of white wine to one of water, and a small piece of butter. Sautez some small onions and mushrooms with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; add two or three tablespoonfuls of flour. After these ingredients80 Dainty Meals for Small Households have boiled and become thoroughly incorporated with one another, add, stirring the while, enough of the liquor in which the fish has boiled to produce the quantity of gravy you will require; when slightly reduced, thicken it with the yolks of two or three eggs ; arrange the fish on a dish, pour the sauce over it. Garnish with any of the following : Fried bread, fish quenelles, crayfish, small groups of shrimps, mushrooms, or truffles, as convenient or desired. These dishes are characteristically French, and are excellent for suppers during the cold season. A good frying mixture for fish en friture is made thus : Take Jib. of flour, two eggs, and two teaspoonfuls of olive oil ; sift the flour into a basin, add the yolks, then two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a pinch of salt, finally the oil ; just before using the mixture in the frying pan add the whites previously beaten to a snow. Another very general way of preparing frying material for fish in foreign cuisines is this : Chop very fine some good, fresh suet, and add to this the same quantity of fat taken from the stock pot. Melt this down and clarify it; skim it carefully and put it aside till wanted. When on the point of using it, put it into the frying-pan over a very brisk fire until it is absolutely boiling (if left beyond that point it would burn and become useless) ; in that boiling state the fish should be put in and fried quickly either with a basket or without. To serve fish a au vin,n put it into the fish kettle with enough wine to cover it entirely (white wine is preferable to red). Add a couple of moderate-sized onions, one of which should be cut in slices, the other studded with cloves ; some pepper, salt, a blade of mace, parsley, and chives, and a little lemon rind ; let this simmer over the fire till the fish begins to get tender, and add a piece of butter well worked with flour ; stir it, and make up a81 Fish brisk fire to heat the wine thoroughly. Some people advise setting fire to the same, as it is supposed to improve the flavour of the sauce. When the fish is quite tender dish it up, strain the liquor, put it over the fire again, let it reduce to the required quantity, thicken it with a small lump of fresh butter and the yolk of an egg, and finally add a little good broth or gravy to make it more mellow. Pour the sauce over the fish, garnish with quarters of hot hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and send it up very hot. Trout, pike, barbel, or perch are excellent served in this fashion. On the whole, Continental cooks make good use of several kinds of fish that are considered of common quality in England ; and as the delicious results are attained owing to the manner in which they are pre- pared, it may not be amiss to give a few every-day and useful recipes ; by means of these less expensive material can be made to take the place of fish which is difficult to obtain. Brochet Pique (Larded Pike).—Choose a moderate- sized fish, and, after having cleaned and skinned it, lard it plentifully with even strips of bacon, and sprinkle it with salt. Lay the fish straight, or twist it with its tail in its mouth, and bake it as follows :—Melt some good lard or Brand's marrow fat in a baking tin, put in the fish, cover it with a lid (which must be strewn with hot charcoal embers), stand it over the fire (charcoal will do just as well), and bake it a golden-brown, basting it at intervals with the hot fat; or it can be baked in an evenly-heated oven. Serve with a brown caper or sardine sauce flavoured with lemon. Brochet a la Creme (Stuffed Pike with Cream)—After the fish has been cleaned and prepared for cooking, lay it in a circle in a suitable-sized fireproof baking dish (in which it will be sent to table). Make rather G82 Dainty Meals for Small Households deep incisions with a sharp knife all along its back at intervals of a couple of inches, being careful not to cut right through the backbone. Into these and all over the fish sprinkle plentifully a mixture of salt, pepper, chopped bay-leaves, small onions, parsley, chervil, a few cloves and peppercorns (well pounded), pressing into each incision as well a small piece of butter worked with a little flour and finely chopped herbs. Cover the fish (after it has been in the oven for a few minutes) with sour cream ; stand the baking dish in the oven on two bricks, leaving a space between the two under the dish ; cover with a buttered paper, and bake till tender. Serve very hot, with a sprinkling of finely chopped onions and tarragon. Brochet an Bleu (Boiled Pike).—Boil the fish au bleu; put it aside to keep very hot; meantime have ready some filleted sardines previously soaked in red wine for about two hours. Chop them up, put them into a pipkin with a dessertspoonful of flour, a claret glassful of red wine, some breadcrumbs, a couple of tablespoonfuls of good gravy, plenty of salt and pepper, the grating of half a lemon, and some chopped herbs; stir this all together over the fire to make the sauce ; when it is very hot and smooth, pour it over the fish, garnish with fried bread (and mushrooms if liked), and serve very hot. Of course, the quantity of sardines, wine, gravy, &c, must rather depend on the size of the fish, which must naturally be well covered with the sauce. Brochet au Beurre Noir (Pike and Butter Sauce).—Boil the fish in well salted boiling water, have ready some eggs boiled hard, chop the yolks and the whites, and keep them separate ; skin and fillet some sardines, roll each fillet up neatly, do the same with a few anchovies ; chop up some chervil and tarragon; make a good sauce au beurre noir in the usual way, viz. put a lump of butterFish 83 into the frying-pan, let it melt over the fire till it colours, add a few sprigs of parsley and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, garnish the fish with the sardines, eggs, &c, and serve very hot with the sauce. Carpe Rotie (Baked Carp).—Clean the fish thoroughly, rub it with salt, and lay it in a baking tin on some sticks of wood, so that it does not touch the bottom ; sprinkle it with the required seasoning of salt, pepper, and a pinch of flour, rub a little butter over it on both sides, add one claret glassful of red wine, and let it bake a good colour, basting it frequently and turning it occasionally. Chop up the roe of the fish, with two or three sardines and one or two anchovies, well boned and filleted; add to these a chopped onion; brown these ingredients over the fire in a little cooking butter, with a sprinkling of flour; stir into this two teacupfuls of boiling stock, the grating of half a lemon, the juice of the same, and a tea- spoonful of capers. When this is ready and smooth serve it with the fish, with part of the sauce in a boat, and the rest on the dish itself. Carpe a la Diable (Cold Carp).—Choose a moderate- sized fish (if it is too large it lasts too long, unless it is intended for many guests); wash and clean it thoroughly, rub it all over with salt; lay it in a large dish, sprinkle more salt over it, and let it stand in a cool place for at least one hour. Lay it in a baking tin as before, only the tin should be rather deep ; pour over the fish a pint of cooking wine, or light ale ; add 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of lard or cooking butter, a small piece of ginger, the juice of half a lemon, and some sprigs of parsley and tarragon; baste it carefully, turn it over occasionally, and let it bake till tender. Stand it aside till cold; meantime make a sauce as follows:—Boil four eggs hard, pound the yolks, add to this the yolk of one raw egg, stir these in a mortar with china pestle (if possible), and add one after the other84 Dainty Meals for Small Households four or five tablespoonfuls of red cooking wine, two of olive oil, one of mustard (not heaped up), one egg- spoonful of powdered sugar, two finely - chopped shallots, two tablespoonfuls of white wine vinegar, salt to taste, and some pepper. Stir this for at least a quarter of an hour; dish up the fish, garnish it with slices of hard-boiled eggs, pour some of the sauce over it, and send up the remainder in a boat. Carpe Farcie (Stuffed Carp).—Prepare the fish exactly as in the preceding recipe. Meantime make ready the following stuffing :—Use the roe and the liver of the fish, any cold remains of fish you may have by you, or in default of these a slice or two of calves' liver. Chop them all fine, stir into these a lump of butter beaten to a cream; add gradually (mixing the ingredients well as each one is added) two whole eggs, two zwiebacks pounded (a slice of crisp toast will do as well), three or four sardines filleted and chopped, two button onions also chopped, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of nutmeg, and if the mixture is too stiff moisten it with a little milk or a sprinkling of stock, but it should be firm enough to stuff the fish comfortably. Take the carp out of salt, wipe it well with a clean cloth, rub the inside very slightly with a garlic root, fill it thoroughly with the mixture, sprinkle it with very fine bread raspings, tie a few slices of fat bacon round it, put it into a baking tin, and into the oven with a little butter. Let it bake, basting with some butter, until it is of a golden-brown. A few minutes before serving pour over the fish two or three tablespoonfuls of sour cream or sour milk. Serve very hot, with or without a garnish of hot mushrooms and fried sippets. This makes a most delicious dish, and it is really not at all an extravagant one. Carpe Marinee (Pickled Carp).—After cleaning the fish, split and cut it into suitable pieces of medium size; rubFish 85 them all over with salt, and let it stand for half an hour; wipe off the salt with a clean damp cloth, brush the pieces over with olive oil, cover them with zwieback crumbs or very dry raspings, and fry them in equal parts of oil and butter. This operation should be performed quickly over a brisk fire, shaking the pan the while, so that the pieces should not become attached to one another; when of a golden brown stand the fish aside to get cold. Meanwhile boil a sufficient quantity of good white wine vinegar with some lemon rind, two medium- sized onions studded with cloves, some whole pepper, a couple of bay-leaves, and salt to taste. When this mix- ture has had time to cool strain it, chop up the onions, put them back into the vinegar, dish up the fish, and pour the liquor over it. Fish pickled in this way will keep good (during the cool weather) from ten to twelve days. Eels lend themselves to a variety of dishes for which the initial treatment is the same. When the fish are large, tie a strong piece of twine tightly round the body underneath the head, fasten it on to a hook, or make someone hold it, loosen the skin all round with a sharp knife, and pull it off carefully all the way down. As soon as this is done rub the body of the fish with coarse salt, and wipe it thoroughly afterwards ; then cut it into pieces or leave it whole, as the recipe in use may require. The knife will be needed both to loosen the fins and also to cut off the tail. Where very small fish are concerned, the skin is rarely removed, but it is rubbed over with coarse salt, and the fins, &c, must be cut off; finally, the fish must be washed in salted water until the latter remains perfectly clear, after which cut the eel or cook it whole, according to instructions. Ragout aux Anguilles (Stewed Eels) make a delicate and nourishing dish. Have ready some good strong86 Dainty Meals for Small Households stock, to this add one sherry glassful of white vinegar, one large onion studded with half a dozen cloves, three slices of lemon, a small piece of butter, and seasoning to taste. After this has been allowed to simmer for a few moments, put in the eels cut in pieces according to above instructions, cover the saucepan, and let them cook till quite tender, without, however, allowing them to break. Strain the liquor, thicken it, add a little red wine ; let it reduce over the fire ; and serve over the fish. Simpler Recipe.—Au bleu Anguilles (Boiled Eels).— Prepare the fish as above, and boil them slowly for twelve or fifteen minutes in enough water to cover them, with three or four onions, two or three slices of lemon, the same quantity of bay-leaves, half a dozen cloves, a dozen peppercorns, one tablespoonful of good dripping or Brand's marrow fat, and seasoning to taste. Serve very hot with boiled potatoes, morels, and horse-radish by way of garniture. en Gelee (in Jelly).—Do not skin the fish ; rub them well with salt, as above, and, after having cleaned them, remove the heads and tails, rinse them in lukewarm water, wipe them dry, and boil them in water without salt. Strain and cut them in pieces, put them into a stewpan with seasoning to taste, the rind of half a lemon, two or three shalots, some whole black pepper, three or four cloves, and a pinch of allspice, and cover the fish with equal parts of white vinegar and water. After it has boiled for a full quarter of an hour, take out the fish, remove the fat, and strain the liquor. Put it back into the stewpan with a little gelatine dissolved in some of the liquor (about \ oz. of gelatine to one pint of liquor), put in the fish, more seasoning, and three or four slices of lemon ; boil the whole once more, and pour it all into a moistened mould. Stand it aside in a cold place till it is well set ; then turn it out and serve with aFish 87 mayonnaise or remoulade. It makes an excellent supper dish. a la Remoulade.—After having cleaned and skinned some good-sized fish, and cut them into suitable pieces, boil them till tender in three parts of water to one part of white vinegar (enough to cover the fish) ; add two or three onions, the same number of slices of lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. When done, remove the fish, and stand them in a cool place, where they can be kept (according to the state of the temperature, from three to six days) till wanted. When they are intended to stand aside for a couple of days, it is well to lay them in their liquor, after this has been allowed to cool separately. When required as a supper dish or as an hors d'ceuvre, lay them in a dish, garnish them prettily with cut-out beetroot, scraped horseradish, capers, white and yolk of hard-boiled eggs, gherkins, parsley, &c, and serve them with a remoulade made as follows :—Pound and press through a sieve the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, about four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of tarragon vinegar, the same quantity of ordinary white wine vinegar, a pinch of sugar, a good sprinkling of paprica, and a small pinch of saffron. Mix these ingre- dients well together, preferably by stirring them in a mortar with a china pestle, and, if possible, let the sauce stand over some ice for half an hour before pouring it over the fish. Anguilles farcies (Stuffed).—After having cleaned and skinned a moderate-sized eel, take out the backbone without tearing the body, and lay the fish in salt for half an hour. In the meantime prepare a stuffing according to taste ; for instance, the grated crumb of two milk rolls, the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, any small quantity of cold remains of ham, chicken, or veal, moistened with a tablespoonful88 Dainty Meals for Small Households of cream, or milk, or white of egg. With this (when the ingredients have been thoroughly well mixed) fill the eel, where it has been slit open for the removal of the bone. Tie it round with string to keep it in shape, roll it in breadcrumb and egg, and fry it a golden brown, Of course, if the fish is too large, or it is other- wise desirable, it can be cut into small pieces before it is fried ; or it can also be rolled in batter before frying. Garnish with parsley or serve it with a sauce blanche and fried sippets. Anguilles roulees (Rolled).—Clean and bone the fish carefully as above ; lay it flat on a board, and cut it into three or four pieces about three or four inches in length. Rub the inside of the slices with a little salt, and make a stuffing as follows :—Press the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs through a sieve ; mix with these the raw yolk of one egg, two tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped shalots previously just browned in hot butter, the crumb of a milk roll slightly soaked in a little cream, and about a tablespoonful of chopped mush- rooms, sardines, and capers, all mixed together. Roll up each piece after it has been spread with a layer of this mixture, tie it round with thread, then in a piece of muslin, and boil till quite tender ; stand the fish aside till cold, remove the threads, &c, then serve with a mayonnaise or sauce piquante, after having let it stand on ice for an hour or so. Eels prepared in the same manner may also be fried instead of boiled, and served with a sauce blanche, well sprinkled with finely-chopped parsley, chives, &c., and with some young green field vegetables as an accompaniment. Grillees (Baked).—Clean and skin the fish, rub it over with salt, and let it stand for two hours. Rinse it, dry it, roll it up, and secure it with two small skewers. Put it into a saucepan, just covering it withFish 89 water ; add a couple of tablespoonfuls of white vinegar, three or four shallots, salt to taste, some peppercorns, and let it parboil. Allow the fish to cool, then rub it over with butter or oil, sprinkle it with grated bread- crumbs and finely-chopped herbs, put it into a baking tin with a little butter, and bake it in a hot, even oven till it is tender and of a golden-brown colour. Serve it on a hot dish, remove the skewers, garnish with lemon, and send up a sardine sauce, with some capers, or a sauce tartare. Merlans Grilles (Whiting, Grilled, &c.).—Clean the fish, scrape the outside, slit them slightly with a sharp knife on either side, and soak them for a few hours in some oil with three sprigs of parsley, some chives, one or two shallots, salt and pepper to taste ; after this lapse of time (they can be left, if desired, up to six hours), grill them over a brisk fire, basting them with the liquor in which they have laid ; serve them quickly with a plain hot butter sauce or with caper sauce. They can also be stuffed in the same manner as the eels, or prepared as above, and fried after having been sprinkled with flour ; serve them with slices of lemon and brown bread and butter, or with fried parsley. Or, free some cold remains of whiting from the bones, flake them, mix them with boned and filleted sardines, the soaked crumb of a milk roll, some chopped onions and fines herbes ; mix the whole with a little fresh cream, put the mixture into scallop shells, bake in the oven, and serve with a sprinkling of cream and anchovy sauce. Ombre a la Mode de Lausanne (Grayling).—Chop up a large onion, toss it in butter without letting it brown ; to this add five tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms (raw), as soon as the moisture has been absorbed, line a greased gratin dish with the mixture, and over itgo Dainty Meals for Small Households place three or four grayling, well cleaned and washed ; or a larger fish cut in pieces. Pour over these a tumblerful of light French cooking wine, salt them, sprinkle them with a little melted butter, put them into the oven and bake for twelve or eighteen minutes. Serve in same dish. Add to the liquor in the pan some good gravy or meat glaze with a small piece of butter, kneaded with flour ; finish off with the juice of half a lemon and some chopped parsley. Stir the sauce steadily over the fire whilst the afore-named ingredients are being put in. When thick pour it over the fish and serve, or send up in a boat. Or : Cut up one or two large fish, or use three or four small ones whole. Cover them with salt, and let them stand for a couple of hours. Meanwhile chop up some parsley, shallots, chervil, and tarragon ; add to this a tablespoonful of capers and the fillets of two or three sardines, the latter pounded with half a dozen pepper- corns. Put all this into a small saucepan, with some dripping or butter ; add the juice of a lemon, and when it is just on the boil put in the fish. They should simmer gently for two hours, with just the amount of heat that will produce the simmer without drying up the butter. There must be enough lemon juice to give the prepara- tion a decidedly acid taste. Make some butter very hot in the frying-pan, put the fish in and cook it for about ten minutes. With the mixture left in the saucepan make a sauce by adding a tumblerful of white wine, two tablespoonfuls of broth, and the juice of a lemon. Thicken with the yolks of two eggs, and pour over the fish. Trout, pike, salmon, whiting, and all sorts of firm- fleshed fish can be cooked as follows. Occasionally it is convenient to have a general recipe to fall back upon.Fish 91 ail Vin.—Put into the fish-kettle enough white cooking wine to just cover the fish ; add two or three onions, with half a dozen cloves, pepper, salt, a few blades of mace, half a dozen sprigs of parsley, the juice of half a small lemon, and some chives. When this has boiled up once with the fish, put in a small piece of butter worked with a spoonful of flour, and make up a very brisk fire, so that the wine will catch. Take out the fish, keep it hot ; strain the liquor, put it over the fire again to reduce it to the quantity necessary for the occasion, stir in a small piece of butter, and thicken just before serving with the yolk of one egg. Fish cooked in this manner is excellent. ail Bouillon.—Or stew it in good stock with salt and pepper, with a sprinkling of fines herbes; when it is done or hot through, as the case may be, either reduce and thicken the liquor to form a sauce, or eat the fish as a salad with a good and well-seasoned dressing, of which a little anchovy sauce must be one of the ingredients. an Gratin.—Rub a shallow fireproof gratin dish with butter, sprinkle it with fine breadcrumbs, some finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper ; slightly moisten with good stock or gravy, and fill the dish with slices of fish. Cover with the same mixture as that with which the dish was first strewed, bake in the oven to a good brown colour, serve in the same dish with a garnish of sliced lemon and parsley. Saumon (Salmon).—A large piece of this fish, or a whole one of small size, after being well scaled and emptied by the gills, should be plentifully rinsed, and boiled for one and a half hours or more, according to size ; the ebullition should not be too rapid, or the flesh will become tough, and it must be cooked in a wine court bouillon, with seasoning to taste ; it can then be served plain, with any of the varied sauces suitable to salmon, or it can be92 Dainty Meals for Small Households eaten cold, with any kind of mayonnaise, vinaigrette, or remoulade sauce. Or : Cut it into slices about two inches thick, wash them, dry them, and put them into vinegar for a quarter of an hour ; meanwhile, boil sufficient water to cover the fish, and allow to each pound one teaspoonful of salt and half a tumbler of good white cooking wine. Put the fish in, let it simmer for ten minutes, then leave it on the side of the fire in the same liquor ; when the latter is strained off, serve with plain butter melted and slightly seasoned and new potatoes. a la Sauce Brune (in Brown Sauce).—Stew the fish whole or in slices, preferably the former, in enough stock to cover it; brown some butter with a little flour and some chopped onions in a saucepan, add enough gravy or fish stock for the required quantity of sauce, and into this stir some capers, the fillets of two or three sardines, and one calf's brain previously boiled, and all pounded together. To this add plenty of seasoning and a small tumblerful of red wine ; let it reduce, thicken with a little butter, and serve with the fish very^hot. aux Champignons (with Mushrooms).—Brown the slices of fish in some butter made hot, with a sprinkling of flour and a dozen or more button onions ; when slightly coloured add equal parts of stock and French white cooking wine, with plenty of pepper and salt to taste. Let this simmer slowly for one hour and a half; remove the fish, keep it hot, add some small mushrooms to the liquor ; when these are tender reduce the sauce to the necessary quantity, and thicken with an egg liaison just before serving. Grille (Grilled).—Cut the fish in slices as before ; rub it with salt and pepper and let it stand for a quarter of an hour. Put into a suitable dish some finely-chopped onions, a bay-leaf, and enough good salad oil to cover the said slices, which must be laid in singly and turnedFish 93 about. Grill briskly on both sides to a golden brown, and serve with this a good mustard sauce. The cold remains of salmon are among the best for making all sorts of delightful entrees, &c, and very useful supper dishes, generally with the help of mayonnaise sauce. It can be flaked, mixed with chopped lettuce or fresh herbs, arranged in petites caisses, or in scallop shells, &c, covered with mayonnaise and a dusting of paprica or cayenne, and garnished according to desire with cucumber, hard-boiled eggs chopped, capers, filleted anchovies, and so on ad libitum. Marine (To Pickle).—Take 41b. or 51b. of salmon ; have it cut off the fish without any other preparation except scaling ; cut it into thick slices, rub them thoroughly with salt on every side ; let them stand in a basin thus salted for two hours ; dry them with a cloth, rub them over with good salad oil, and grill or bake them quickly. Boil together (say for every 51b. of fish) one quart of white wine vinegar, three-quarters of a pint of white wine (Graves for instance), a small handful of salt, four slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, and a pinch of pepper. When these ingredients have boiled up two or three times, stand the liquor aside to cool. Arrange the fish, which has had time to become quite cold, in a stone jar of suitable size, and pour the liquor over it in sufficient quantity to cover. Tie the jar down with a soaked bladder, and keep it in a cool place. Truite an Bleu (Trout, Boiled).—This fish should be killed only when it is wanted ; scale it and clean it quickly, and boil it au bleu slowly for ten or fifteen minutes if it is small; serve it with melted butter and parsley, or with a sauce tartare ; or cover it with hot vinegar, put a lid over the vessel in which it stands, and leave it for a few moments. Meantime boil some water with two or three shallots and a handful of salt,94 Dainty Meals for Small Households put in the trout with a small quantity of the vinegar, stand it over a slow fire to simmer for about ten minutes, and serve very hot with plain melted butter. Or, prepare them as above ; stand them aside till cold, and serve with oil and vinegar, fines herbes, and a good horseradish sauce. —— Au Vin Rouge (with Red Wine Sauce).—Put them into boiling water, in which salt, a few slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, and one small tumblerful of vinegar have previously been boiled ; cover them up, and let them stew over a slow fire. When the fish is tender, take it out, and keep it hot ; meantime prepare a sauce as follows :—A little fresh butter, a tumblerful of good red wine, a soaked zwieback or hard biscuit, the juice of half a lemon, a pinch of sugar, and as much good fish stock as will give the necessary quantity of sauce ; stir this over the fire, add at the last the crushed yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, let the sauce reduce, and pour it over the fish. a la Bernoise.—Put into a saucepan equal quan- tities (say about half a pint) of good stock and red Burgundy, a little more of white cooking wine, two moderate-sized onions, some chopped shallot, a slice of toasted bread, two or three sprigs of parsley, a couple of bay-leaves, a few slices of lemon, and two blades of mace, salt and pepper to taste. Stir it over the fire and cook it carefully ; when it is nearly ready see that it is fully seasoned, and thicken it with a small piece of butter well worked with flour. After this put in the trout and cook it for a quarter of an hour ; strain the sauce before serving. This dish is rarely seen in England, and is delicious ; carp, pike, and whiting can also be prepared after this fashion. Rougets a la Stambouline (Red Mullet, Turkish Fashion),—Owing to the peculiarity of its flesh, which so95 Fish easily falls to pieces, very delicate treatment is required in the handling of this fish. The following is a favourite way of preparing red mullet in the East, where it is essentially at home, and always in great request :—Clean them or not—this is said advisedly, because real gourmets prefer the latter proceeding. At any rate, the cleaning must take place through the gills, which must afterwards be removed altogether. Soak the fish for a full hour in a mixture of fine salad oil, pepper, salt, well-chopped parsley, and a shallot. When the fish is taken out, work into the liquor in which it has soaked enough breadcrumb, slightly sprinkled with milk, to make a paste. Any hard roe which may be found in the mullet should also be chopped and added to the above. Stuff the fish through the gill openings with this mixture : Wrap up each one in a sheet of white buttered paper, and fry it on a gridiron over a moderate fire. Serve very hot in a silver or plated dish (if you wish to be very correct). Mullets prepared thus are generally eaten without sauce, but if such should be required, melt a sufficient quantity of fresh butter, and season with strong mustard powder, salt and pepper to taste. Or, prepare the fish as above without soaking it at all; stuff it or not as preferred, with a paste made of roe, breadcrumb, milk, parsley, salt and pepper, and serve with a strongly seasoned thick white onion sauce poured over the fish, which is fried as before. A frying-pan will do if a grid- iron is unavailable. Morue a la Creme (Cod with Cream Sauce).—Boil the fish in plenty of water, skin it when tender, let it stand. Make a sauce with a small piece of butter well kneaded with flour, a gill of cream, a pinch of white pepper, the same quantity of grated nutmeg, a couple of onions cut in quarters, and a couple of slices of lemon. When these ingredients have been stirred together over the96 Dainty Meals for Small Households fire, and have become thoroughly well amalgamated, put in the fish, cut into suitable pieces ; let it simmer slowly till tender, put it on to a hot dish, add a squeeze of lemon to the sauce, strain it over the fish, and serve with a sprinkling of capers and finely-chopped herbs. Cod fish lends itself to all sorts of variations, especially when it is fresh, though most recipes may be used for salt fish after it has been put into soak for the necessary time. Take any cold remains or a piece of fresh fish, flake it and heat it over the fire in a good bechamel sauce. Or, after having served it d la bechamel, add to the remains of the sauce some grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese ; arrange the fish in a gratin dish or an ordinary baking tin, sprinkle it with cheese, salt, and pepper between the layers, put a few small lumps of butter over the top, finishing off with a good sprinkling of cheese ; bake in the oven and serve very hot. aux Tomates.—Cut into pieces about 2lb. of cod; slice a large onion, colour the latter in some good oil in a saucepan ; add the fish and two roots of garlic, and, after allowing these to simmer a while, put in half a dozen large tomatoes, previously skinned and sliced. Continue the simmering slowly for thirty-five minutes, with some hot embers on the lid of the saucepan. When quite tender serve very hot. a l'Espagnole.— Cut the fish into squares, slightly cook it in water without actually letting it boil, drain it and remove the bones ; bake three or four long peppers (pimentoes) just enough to be able to skin them, slice them lengthwise, season them with salt and a little pepper ; chop two onions, toss them over the fire in a little salad oil, add four large tomatoes thickly sliced and moistened with stock. Let this boil slowly for ten minutes, thicken with the necessary quantity of flour, sprinkle with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, seasonFish 97 plentifully as desired, boil the whole up once more. Have ready some potatoes boiled, cut them in slices, fill a fireproof dish with alternate layers of potatoes, cod fish, pimentoes, and sauce, proceeding thus until the dish is quite full. Finish off with a sprinkling of sauce, cover thickly with bread raspings, and bake for thirty-five minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once in the same dish. Lamproies Frites (Lampreys, Fried).—Cut the fish in pieces and lay it in a strong brine for one hour. Strain off the liquor ; put the pieces into a saucepan covered with a court-bouillon ; let it boil up once, then draw it aside, and let it simmer gently. When the fish is quite tender, put the saucepan with its contents in a cool place ; take out the fish when it is only lukewarm, weight it in a colander, and when quite cold, trim and cut the pieces into shape. Meantime strain the liquor, remove the fat, make a fairly thick white sauce with the usual ingredients, and reduce it by boiling. Thicken it with yolk of egg, and strain. Brush the fish over with the sauce, piece by piece, rolling it in breadcrumbs directly after ; dip them into some well-beaten yolks ; fry quickly (not putting more than three or four pieces in the pan at one time). Serve with a sauce piquante, or with crisply-fried parsley. a la Bourguignonne.—Clean a large lamprey, remove the large cartilage that runs down the back ; cut the fish into pieces, and sprinkle them thickly with salt. Prepare a colourless roux, with about Jib. of flour and butter respectively ; stir into this some white wine over the fire till boiling point. Season plentifully, put in the fish, when nearly tender add a dozen or more mushrooms. After allowing this to simmer gently for twenty minutes, strain off the sauce, remove the fat and put it back on the fire to reduce it, stirring all the time. Have ready some neat slices of fried bread,98 Dainty Meals for Small Households arrange them in a dish with a piece of fish on each ; add the mushrooms and some small onions slightly browned. Stir into the liquor left over a small piece of butter, a pinch of cayenne, and the juice of lemon ; pour this over the fish, and serve. These last three recipes are adapted from Urbain Dubois after personal trial. Mrs. Rundell makes very good suggestions for potted lampreys which I cannot refrain from quoting, as the result is really delicious. Potted Lampreys.—Remove the cartilage and the string on each side, wash the fish, wipe it dry with- out skinning. To a dozen allow 2 oz. of pepper, salt in proportion, six blades of mace, and a dozen cloves, all finely pounded. This seasoning should, however, only be added after the lampreys have well drained over-night. Lay them in a stone jar, curled round one by one, with alternate sprinklings of the above seasoning. Clarify 2lb. of butter and fib. of the best beef suet; pour it into the jar, lay a sheet of thick paper over the top just to keep in the steam. Bake for three hours in a moderate oven ; look at it occasionally and remove all the oil or grease that may rise to the surface. The fish will keep in a cool place till the next spring. Each time a supply is taken out of the jar, remove all the old butter and warm it up in the oven with some fresh butter before serving. Sturgeon, which is in its prime during the first three months of the year, and in December, provides some excellent dishes. It is mostly found in the Elbe, the Oder, and other rivers, but it really ranks among the sea fish. The flesh is tender and very substantial, but not suited to people of weak digestion. It can be roasted as follows, and rather resembles very tender and well-flavoured veal:—Take either a small fish whole, or the middle of a large one; clean, skin, and99 Fish lard it closely, bake it in the oven with plentiful basting, and serve, when quite done, with a sardine or caper sauce, or dish it up with a garnish of caviar and sliced lemons, and send up a remoulade sauce. —- En Cotelettes.—Cut some slices off the trunk of the fish, lay them in vinegar in a dish rubbed with garlic for about an hour, dry them, roll them in egg and fine breadcrumbs, and fry them a good colour. Serve very hot with a sauce tartare. Talking of large fish, by the way, we must bear in mind that they are often likely to seem tough and heavy if cooked whilst they are still quite fresh. To avoid this defect they should be well cleaned out, rolled in a clean cloth, and left in the cellar or any cool place on a stone or marble slab for at least twenty-four hours before cooking. This simple precaution will make all the difference in the end. Ma^uereaux aux Hmtres (Mackerel with Oysters).— Choose two or more mackerel, according to size and the number of persons ; clean and wash them thoroughly, dry them, cut them into pieces, and boil them for about ten minutes in a court-bouillon, to which a small glassful of white wine, a bunch of parsley, and seasoning should be added. When tender, arrange them in a shallow dish, and cover with a thick oyster sauce made thus: Put into a small saucepan some white coulis, one tumblerful of Rhine wine (if not handy, French white wine will do), a few tablespoonfuls of good stock, and the liquor of some of the oysters. Add plenty of seasoning and a blade of mace, then put in the oysters, and boil until the sauce is sufficiently reduced ; thicken with the yolk of one or two eggs. Grilles (Baked).—Cut off the head and tail, split and clean the fish, roll them in a mixture of salt, pepper, and flour, and bake them a good colour in hot lard orioo Dainty Meals for Small Households butter, or grill them. Serve them very hot with a mustard or a tartare sauce. a la Hollandaise.—Clean the fish, as many as required, according to size ; wash and dry them, remove the backbone, rub the inside with salt, and set them aside. Put into a saucepan a few shallots, mushrooms, and parsley, all well chopped ; toss them in butter till tender, and in the meantime prepare a stuffing with cold remains of fish or veal, &c, pounded sardines, a couple of anchovies, the roe and liver of the fish, all mixed with a little butter, and if necessary slightly moistened with a tablespoonful of stock ; fill the fish with this paste after having well mixed it in a mortar with the chopped shallots, &c. Tie the fish in paper dipped in olive oil, and grill over a brisk fire. Serve, after having taken off the paper, with a tomato sauce. ■■ Rotis.—Prepare as above. After the fish has been salted for about an hour, wipe it, roast it before the fire in a Dutch oven, sprinkle with salt, pepper, chopped chervil, and a few drops of lemon juice, and serve very hot with a sauce piquante. Marines (Pickled).—Prepare as above, and boil the fish till tender in a liquor made with equal parts of water and vinegar, some salt, a couple of onions, peppercorns, and a few sprigs of tarragon, thyme, and parsley. Do not let it boil too quickly, and be careful that the fish do not break ; take them out, drain off the liquor, let them get cold ; then put them into a stone jar and cover them with the same liquor. Cover the jar, and keep in a cool place. Serve with boiled potatoes and butter, or with a ravigote sauce. The sole is perhaps one of the most delicious of all fish ; it is at its best from March to July, and when fresh is firm to the touch. It must always be skinned, certainly on the back if not altogether. There is noioi Fish difficulty about frying it with breadcrumbs, and almost every cook knows how it ought to be done, even though she may not always succeed, but there are other ways in which it can produce an excellent dish. au gratin.—Clean and skin the fish, split it along the back, put into a shallow gratin dish some butter, salt, pepper, finely chopped parsley, and half a tumblerful of white wine ; then put in the sole, season it afresh, lay in some small mushrooms all around it, cover it with a little Espagnole, grated breadcrumbs, and, finally, three or four little pieces of butter; put the dish into a very hot oven, let it bake till a good golden brown, and, just before serving, sprinkle with finely chopped chervil, and a few drops of lemon juice. A very good way of frying a sole is to prepare it as above, and to dip it into milk seasoned with salt and pepper, then roll it in some fine dry flour, and fry it in the usual way. Serve with fried parsley and slices of lemon. a la Mariniere.—Clean and split the fish, put it into a buttered fire-proof dish in which it will lie com- fortably ; moisten it with white wine, season with salt and pepper, and bake it in the oven for a quarter of an hour. Remove the fish and set it aside to keep hot; put the liquor in which it has baked into a saute pan and reduce by half, thicken it with yolk of egg, a small piece of butter, and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready a hot dish, put the sole on it, garnish with mushrooms or boiled mussels, cover it with the sauce, sprinkle with a chopped egg, hard-boiled, mixed with chives. Put it into the oven for three or four minutes, and serve at once.1 Herrings are very full of bones, but that is their only drawback, and they are such an economical and useful article for the thrifty housewife that, in spite of the above 1 The Driessauces are specially adapted to the cooking of soles.io2 Dainty Meals for Small Households defect, it would be a pity to exclude them from the menu. They should be carefully scaled, cleaned, and washed ; during this operation remove all the bones that can be easily detached, thus considerably lessening their number ; sprinkle them with fine salt and a very little flour, grill them, and serve them either with a tomato or mustard sauce, or a sauce tartare. Or : after cleaning them, remove the whole of the backbone, make a thick paste with a pounded roe of the fish, some finely grated breadcrumbs, one or two hard-boiled eggs, the fillets of two or three anchovies, some chopped tarragon and chervil; with this stuff the fish, tie them in buttered paper, and grill them. Serve with fried parsley and some fresh butter. a la Tartare.—Clean them, cut off the heads, remove the oackbone after splitting them up the middle; gently lift off the fillets, lay them in a marinade for half an hour or so, then fry them and serve with a sauce tartare. Smoked herrings can be served en petites caisses, and make good hors d'ceuvre or a breakfast dish. Skin and bone them, and arrange them in small fillets, getting rid of as many bones as possible ; have ready some petites caisses into which put a little piece of butter, chopped parsley, chervil, and mushrooms (about a heaped tea- spoonful of the mixture in each), arrange the fish in thin layers so as not to make the contents too substantial, cover with a sprinkling of paprica and breadcrumbs, and bake quickly, with buttered paper on the top. Crayfish are eaten much more frequently abroad than in this country. Their bright red colour when cooked, and their small size, make them both useful and pretty as a garnish in many cases, besides which, there are people very fond of crayfish just as there are oyster lovers. Crayfish are mostly served en bisque; but, plainly boiled with aromatic herbs and en bordelaise, they are veryFish 103 delicious. Here are a few ways of preparing them. It should be remembered that in every case the fish should be put to boil while it is still living, unless the fishmonger is absolutely to be depended upon. It is most important that this should be perfectly fresh ; they are at their best from June till the autumn, and the favourite kind have a reddish tinge under the claws; this depends on the water in which they have lived, since the faster the stream the better the fish. To keep them alive till wanted, they should be put into a bucket deep enough to obviate the possibility of their crawling up the sides, and on a bed of thick grass and nettles. Water may be put in to about the depth of an inch, but this is not really necessary, and, if it is used, must be very frequently changed ; the bucket must be left without a cover, and in a cool place. To clean crayfish, remove a small fin from the middle of the tail, which holds the black and bitter part, and rinse it in two or three waters. Ecrevisses a la Provencale.—Boil the necessary number of crayfish in a good white wine court-bouillon, with plenty of aromatic herbs, a clove of garlic, and a slice of ham. Strain off the liquor into a saucepan, put it over the fire, add some consomme, and reduce to a half glaze ; add six tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce. Draw the saucepan a little aside, and let the contents boil gently for a few minutes ; then put in a pinch of cayenne and nearly a Jib. of fresh butter, in small pieces the size of a nut. Arrange the crayfish en buisson on a dish, and serve the sauce separately. There are special stands for serving up crayfish. To make the buisson, they are piled up in the shape of a pyramid, showing the backs, the tails extended, and, of course, heads uppermost. a la Polonaise.—Put two or three dozen crayfish into a saucepan with some vinegar, salt, pepper, an onion, and a bouquet of parsley and fennel: boil for eight minutes104 Dainty Meals for Small Households with the cover on, and tossing frequently. Strain off the liquor, put the fish back into the saucepan, sprinkle them with some fresh, fine white breadcrumbs, cover them with a tumblerful of thick sour cream, and let them boil gently for about five minutes. Then put in Jib. of fresh butter in small pieces as before, and serve in a deep dish, with a final sprinkling of finely-chopped parsley and fennel. a la Bordelaise.—Wash the crayfish, detach the scale from the tail, remove the black part, and put the flesh in a saucepan containing a mirepoix of carrots, onions, remains of ham, &c, all cut in small dice ; add some butter, and toss the whole over a fairly hot fire; moisten with good white wine, add salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste ; let the contents boil for five or eight minutes ; when nearly done, put in a little brandy, let it catch fire, tossing the ingredients the while; then put the crayfish into a hot entree dish. Put the liquor over the fire again, let it simmer till reduced by one half; thicken with a brown roux ; finally add a little flour and a small piece of butter ; pour this over the crayfish and serve quickly. The lobster is an indigestible article of food, but its flesh is so delicious that it would be difficult to exclude it from our table. The best time to eat it is from April to September, and, of course, it is safer to buy it alive, unless it is to be used at once, for there is scarcely anything more objectionable than stale shellfish. In purchasing a cooked lobster, be sure to test it according to the safest method. The tail is always folded, so to speak, so if attempting to straighten it out it returns after the fashion of elastic to its original fold, the fish is good and fresh ; but if it remains limp and springless, or is very light, beware of buying it. To boil this fish, put it head foremost into salted boiling water (afterFish having brushed it and rinsed it in cold water) ; it is the most humane way of treating it, as it dies immediately. Then place the lid on the pot, draw it a little aside, and let it simmer slowly for about twenty minutes or more, according to the size. During the process hold a red-hot poker in the water, as that will help to make the lobster a bright colour. A small piece of butter, a bouquet garni, a sprinkling of cayenne pepper, and two or three leeks with a teaspoonful of salt, greatly improve the flavour. When done, draw the pot aside, throw in a little cold water, remove the lobster, put it on a board, dry it, rub it over with a little oil, and put a weight over it whilst it cools. It can then be split lengthwise and served in the ordinary way, or prepared according to various recipes. Homard Farci (Stuffed Lobster).—After the lobster has been boiled, cut it in half lengthwise, remove all the contents of the shell, putting aside the parts that are not fit to eat; chop up all the rest together with two or three shallots (previously slightly browned in a little butter), three or four eggs, a few sprigs of parsley and tarragon, plenty of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir this mixture in a stewpan, with some fat, over the fire, and, when it is well heated through and thoroughly incorporated, fill the empty shells. Press the contents of each half well into the shell, making a smooth surface, and sprinkle this with grated breadcrumbs ; cover with hot butter, put the shells into a baking dish, and bake quickly in a hot oven till the surface is slightly brown. Serve with a sauce tartare, or alone, according to taste. en Pate (Pie).—Boil two medium-sized lobsters, remove the flesh from the shell, cut that of the tail and claws into suitable pieces, and set them aside; with the rest mix two or three hard-boiled eggs, the soaked crumb of two milk rolls, a small piece of any106 Dainty Meals for Small Households common fish, chopped shallots, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and two or three tablespoonfuls of cream. Pound these well together, and put them aside. Have ready a small pie dish, well buttered, line it with a thin paste, and fill it with alternate layers of the pounded mixture and the cut lobster ; cover with pastry, bake for an hour, and just before serving pour in a little sauce made of melted butter and shrimps, or anchovies. Lobsters can, of course, be utilized for the well-known salad, or served cold with mayonnaise sauce, and the tail cut into slices may be fried en c6telettes) with a sauce piquante or a sauce tartare. Many readers will exclaim at the mere mention of snails as an article of food ; yet they should not be omitted here, for several reasons, the principal of which is that they have special properties in cases of chest diseases, whooping cough, &c. If it were necessary to go far into the subject, it might be asserted and proved that in the oldest times the snail was recognized as a wholesome shellfish. They come to us principally from Burgundy, Franchecomte, or Lorraine, and the two principal ways of cooking them are as follows :— Escargots a la Ponlette.—Put the necessary quantity into a saucepan with some wood ash and a handful of salt, cover them with boiling water, let them boil for five minutes, and draw them off the fire. They will then be quite easily removed from the shell by means of a small pointed wooden skewer. Throw them into cold water and wash them carefully. Strain off all the moisture, put them over the fire with a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf or two, let them simmer slowly for about an hour, and strain them again. Put them into a stewpan with a little water, salt, pepper, a couple of sprigs of thyme and parsley, and a bay-leaf ; cover them and let them simmer slowly near the fireFish 107 for about an hour. Strain them again. Have ready in a small saucepan some sliced onions browned in butter, put in the snails, cover them with equal quantities of white wine and water, let this boil up once, thicken with a little roux blond, and boil gently for five minutes. Just before serving stir in one or two yolks of egg, a sprinkling of lemon, and a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley and chervil mixed. a la Bordelaise.—Prepare as above, straining the snails twice ; wash the shells thoroughly, and stand them in a warm place to dry; work into a lump of fresh butter some parsley, shallot, and garlic (all well chopped), seasoned with salt and pepper and a little cayenne. Put into each shell a little of this butter mixture, then the snail, and cover it with a layer of butter. Put the shells into a fireproof dish, sprinkle them with breadcrumb, a little white wine, and some butter. Bake in the oven for ten minutes, and serve very hot in the same dish. Kedgeree is such a useful breakfast dish that I must give it here, though it is by no means uncommon. It is generally made either from fresh fish, cold remains, or smoked fish, and the latter is far more tasty, though less often used. The process is the same in any case, though the smoked material requires rather less seasoning. Flake the fish (dried haddock for instance), remove the skin and bones, if it is uncooked, turn it over, on the fire, in a little butter, with salt and pepper to taste. Have ready, in a suitable saucepan, some rice, boiled and strained (in the proportion of one teacupful to two breakfast-cupfuls of flaked fish), and into this mix three or four hard-boiled eggs, well chopped, a pinch of chopped parsley, and enough anchovy sauce to taste. Stir in the fish, add a little butter, stir over a brisk fire, and serve very hot.1 1 For the Indian recipe, see p. 121.io8 Dainty Meals for Small Households One subject more, and the chapter on fish will be done with. Having mentioned such an essentially Continental article as the preceding, a recipe or two must be added for preparing frogs, for which there are as enthusiastic amateurs as for the more aristocratic oyster. Grenouilles Frites (Fried Frogs).—This is a very Parisian dish, in which the well-known Duval and other restaurants excel. Truss, clean, and strain the frogs ; put them into a pie dish, with salt, pepper, vinegar, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, for a couple of hours. Cut them in half, or not, as desired, dip them in a good batter, and fry in boiling lard or butter. a la Poulette.—Prepare them as above as far as the cleaning goes, but do not soak them in pickling mixture. After cutting them in half, place them in a small saucepan with a piece of butter. When it is hot add a tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and some chopped shallots, and moisten with white wine. Let this mixture boil slowly until the frogs are tender ; thicken the sauce at the last moment with the yolks of two eggs, stir in a little piece of butter and some finely- chopped parsley, and serve very hot.list of the above, I may specially point out the chicken CHAPTER VIII. ENTREES. The entree, according to the last edition of the u Dictionnaire Encyclopedique de la Cuisine, et des Sciences Alimentaires," published in Paris, " consists of some dish which it is customary to serve after the potage, soup, or fish ; it is generally hot," though, of course, we all know this is not invariable, as entrees are often served cold. The dishes suitable for this course are innumerable ; there is hardly anything that cannot be sent in before the roast, and where informal and homely meals are the order of the day, it is but rarely that the larder will not provide some cold remains, or the store cupboard some preserved food, which can be sent up at a moment's notice. Moreover, a nicely prepared entree forms the staple dish of a dainty luncheon. The above remark re store cupboard brings me to bottled goods, specially prepared for immediate use ; and in this matter the goods sold by Messrs. Cosenza and Co. (95, Wigmore Street) and M. Theod. Marquis (74, Tottenham Court Road, London, W.) will be found not only useful, but sufficiently varied to fill up any gap which may occur in household arrangements. Although it is obviously impossible to give a detailedno Dainty Meals for Small Households quenelles, &c, of the former firm, and all sorts of cutlets, tongues, &c., preserved by M. Marquis. It is perhaps not generally known that first-class Indian curries and other dishes are bottled by Veerasawmy Bros., of Rye Lane, London, S.E. As it would be difficult to subdivide the ingredients suited to this course into cold remains and fresh meat, I therefore propose to take the dishes in rotation as they occur to me. I shall, however, mention parts of beef, veal, mutton, &c, which are not common to what in French is termed the " best tables''; and for this treatment I make no apology, as it is, in a great measure, my object to introduce such elements. Travelling, which of late years has been brought within the reach of most modest purses, must go far towards accustoming English people to a variety of food and customs hitherto unfamiliar in this country. There is always a national taste to con- tend with, and some persons would never attempt a dish, the name of which did not appeal to them; at the same time, it does not follow that what is unfamiliar is necessarily nasty. The old Shakesperian question, " What's in a name ? " is a good example of what I mean; viz. that with dainty and careful preparation, no sound or wholesome part of an animal adapted for human food can be counted as vulgar or of no account. Calves' head and feet, cutlets, rissoles, croquettes, re- mains of game stewed en salmis, more or less elaborately hashed and garnished, fresh material dressed with such sauces as Bechamel, Portuguaise, Madere, gratin prepara- tions of various kinds, maccaroni, savoury omelets, beef olives, sweetbread, kidneys, liver, heart, tongues, &c, can all be utilized in the shape of entrees. I am here attempting a few recipes under this oneEntries hi heading, though the enumeration will not be anything like complete; in the chapters dealing with beef, mutton, &c, some dishes will naturally occur which may answer to the term entree. Beef Kidneys.—Rognons en Brochettes.—This is a good way to serve them when sheep's kidneys are not avail- able :—Wash and cut the kidney into finger-thick slices; remove the gristle from the middle; dip them in oil; have ready some slices of bacon, place them together alternately, and skewer them well; grill them, or roast them in a Dutch oven in front of the fire; arrange them on a hot dish, with a sprinkling of parsley butter, and serve them with a sauce piquante or sauce tartare, or plainly arranged on squares of fried toast. Sautes.—Cut the kidney into small thin chips, putting aside all the hard gristle; this may with ad- vantage be prepared over-night for breakfast, or early in the morning for lunch. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, in the thinnest shreds. Put them into a basin with sliced onions, a bay-leaf, plenty of salt and pepper, and sprinkle with good salad oil; cut up some bacon into small dice. Put some butter into a saute pan, toss the kidneys and bacon in the same, sprinkle them with flour and finely chopped chervil and chives, add salt and pepper to taste, and a teacupful of stock. Put on the lid, and let the contents simmer till the liquor is somewhat reduced; after three-quarters of an hour put in a couple of tablespoonfuls of wine, and two or three minutes afterwards serve very hot, on fried toast. Cervelle de Boeuf.—This is not quite the same thing as the well-known calves' brains, but it is excellent when well prepared. It should first be washed, then soaked in hot water for three or four hours; remove all the skin, then boil it in plain water with a little salt and vinegar.ii2 Dainty Meals for Small Households This is the preliminary operation that has to be gone through before proceeding with the recipe, whatever it may be. Put a little butter (about i oz.) into a small saucepan, with a tablespoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and about a teacupful of stock. Stir this till quite smooth, and put the brains in for about five minutes, leaving it over the fire to get very hot. Thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg, and add a squeeze of lemon just before taking the saucepan off the fire. an Gratin.—When prepared as above, let it cool, and cut it into slices carefully so as not to break it out of shape. Have ready a mixture of fine breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt, well mixed together. Turn the slices over in this, arrange them in a shallow gratin dish that will go to table, and gratinez it in the oven either with or without some small tomatoes, each seasoned with salt and pepper and having a tiny piece of butter on the top. Or, when the brain has thus been cut into slices, it can be made into fritters. Langue de Bceuf (Ox-tongue) a l'Ecarlate.—This is a well-known and favourite dish, and few people realize that it is quite easy to prepare it at home, although it takes some time to do. After having washed the tongue, " par-grill" it over very hot embers, or gas, which will facilitate the removal of the skin. If embers are used, they must be well aglow, otherwise it might acquire a smoky taste, which would spoil it altogether. In order to get the skin off easily, it will probably be necessary to re-heat it two or three times. Rub the tongue thoroughly with coarse salt, a little saltpetre, and some pepper, place a layer of salt at the bottom of an earthenware vessel, put the tongue upon it; add a dozen cloves, a couple of bay- leaves, and a sprig or two of thyme; cover it well. Repeat the operation of rubbing salt and pepper into the113 Entrees tongue every twenty-four hours until it is covered by the brine which has formed. Leave it in this pickling mix- ture from twelve days to four or five weeks according to the time of year, and during this interval turn it daily without touching it with the hands. Slip it into a clean soft bladder of suitable size, tie it up securely, and let it smoke in the chimney over a wood fire or not, as required. The smoking should last from two to three days. Be- fore cooking the tongue, which can be done after the pickling, if desired, soak it in water for two or three hours, wash it well, and when the water is clear put the tongue into a large saucepan filled with water, with some onions, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and boil it fairly slowly for about six hours, or a little more or less, according to size. Do not season it with salt or pepper, as it will have had sufficient of both these ingredients. Let it cool in its own liquor. It makes a most useful cold entree, or breakfast or supper dish. The boiling process should be slow, otherwise the tongue will shrink unduly, and very frequently retains too great a taste of salt. Queue de boeuf (Ox-tail).—This is generally cooked in the pot-au-feu with the stock meat, or rather partially cooked. It is then removed and set aside till cold. Cut it into suitable pieces ; this is very easily done by putting the knife through the joints ; dip them in hot butter. Have ready some fine breadcrumbs, roll each piece in the same, again dip it in butter, roll it in breadcrumbs a second time, and grill it. Serve with a sauce piquante or sauce tartare. Next comes tripe, which so many people would be inclined to consider unfit for enumeration in any treatise aiming at daintiness ; but again here, that characteristic is attained by the mode of treatment, and tripe in particular is a very favourite dish. It must be bought Iii4 Dainty Meals for Small Households very fresh and white, and always be thoroughly washed in several relays of lukewarm water ; if bought straight from the butcher it should further be scraped without tearing or disfiguring it, finally washed again in cold water, and boiled very slowly for about six hours in water contain- ing salt, two or three tablespoonfuls of flour, an onion sliced, some cloves, and (unless it is absolutely objected to) a small clove of garlic, which latter can be removed if desired after a couple of hours. After this treatment, tripe can be prepared in various ways. If it is purchased from the tripe-dresser, the necessary scraping, washing, &c., has already taken place, and though in England it might still be advisable to boil it for an hour or so, the six hours mentioned above would be too long. It might indeed be attempted without any boiling, unless the first experiment should result in toughness. Gras-double en Fricassee (Tripe).—Cut it in small squares, and have ready in a stewpan a small piece of butter, a sprinkling of flour, moistened with half a tea- cupful of stock and water respectively ; add a little salt, stir these ingredients over the fire, and after two or three minutes put in the tripe ; let it simmer for ten minutes, adding a few drops of stock the while should the tripe not seem sufficiently moist. Then thicken the mixture with the yolks of one or two eggs ; add a few drops of lemon juice, a heaped teaspoonful of finely- chopped fines herbes, and serve very hot. Grille (Grilled).—Cut the tripe into suitable pieces, in oblong strips, or the size of cutlets or filets mignons; heat some butter over the fire, season it with pepper and salt and a sprinkling of fines herbes, and dip the pieces in it. Cover with breadcrumbs, and grill ; serve with a sauce piquante. All sauces sent in with grilled dishes must go in separately. a la Mode de Caen.—Line the bottom of aEntrees ii5 baking pan or other suitable utensil that will easily go into the oven, with the rind of fresh pork, or, if un- obtainable at the moment, some slices of bacon ; add half a dozen moderate-sized onions with a couple of cloves in each, two carrots cut in slices, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Rub the sides of the vessel with garlic, put in some crushed knuckle of veal or a calf's foot split in four, salt, peppercorns, grated nutmeg, and a blade of mace. Into this put the tripe, cover with white wine and water, finally adding a couple of tablespoonfuls of alcohol. Put on the lid, close it hermetically by means of raw dough, and put it into a moderate oven for eight hours, keeping up the fire as evenly as possible the while. When the cover is taken off, carefully take out the bones, carrots, bay-leaf, &c, and serve very hot. Cotelettes de Mouton (Mutton Cutlets), aux Pommes de Terre.—Trim the cutlets neatly, cutting down the fat and slipping all the meat down from the bone, and brown them in fat in a shallow pan. Take them out and keep hot. To the liquor in the pan add a teacupful of stock and of white wine respectively, some salt, pepper, and chopped shallots. Let this boil, then throw in some sliced potatoes. When these are nearly cooked, replace the cutlets over the fire for a minute or two; serve very hot. Langues de Mouton (Sheep's Tongues).—These must be soaked for two hours in cold water, and then scalded in boiling water until the skin can be easily removed ; split them lengthwise, after which choose any desirable recipe. —- en Sauce.—Put into a saucepan a tablespoonful of good lard, one onion finely sliced, two small carrots also sliced, and brown them over the fire ; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of pounded mace, an ordinary tumblerful of white wine, and some stock. Let this boil up once, put in the tongues, boil, then allow them ton6 Dainty Meals for Small Households simmer slowly, closely covered on the side of the fire, for at least an hour and a half. Add a little more stock if required, bring it to the boil once more, thicken with the yolk of an egg, and serve very hot. Mutton (en cassolette).—For this, use either small neck chops (removing the bone) or any well-trimmed squares cut from the breast, leaving just enough fat to keep the whole from being too dry. Have ready some parboiled rice, thoroughly drained ; slightly rub the inside of an earthenware terrine or small marmite (not too shallow) with a cut garlic root, grease it, and fill it with alternate layers of rice and mutton, sprinkling each layer with a mixture of salt, black pepper, a pinch of Nepaul or cayenne, and the smallest addition of pounded mace. When the topmost layer of rice has been put in, pour in the re- quisite amount of stock to moisten the whole, put on the lid, and bake in the oven for half an hour, or more according to quantity. At the end of this time sprinkle some bread raspings over the top, on these lay half a dozen small dice of fresh butter, and brown in the oven without the lid. This dish can be improved by the addition of one layer of thin slices of onions and potatoes previously slightly browned in butter, and by placing a few chopped mushrooms on the top before the raspings are added. A very nice entree can also be made by stuffing a par- boiled cucumber or marrow with a mixture of minced mutton, rice, onions, mushrooms and parsley, all well chopped, a little sausage meat, and plenty of seasoning. Bake in a well greased gratin or other earthenware baking dish, after sprinkling bread raspings over the whole ; or, instead of the raspings, serve with good brown gravy or a sauce Portugaise. Bissoles or Croquettes.—A mixture similar to the above, moistened with a little stock or gravy, as well asEntries 117 the beaten yolk of a couple of eggs, makes delicious rissoles or croquettes. Cotelettes, sauce lines herbes.—Trim some small neck or loin cutlets ; fry them in hot fat in a large pan, when nearly done sprinkle them with parsley, chives, shallots (sorrel in summer), all finely chopped and seasoned with salt, pepper, mace, all pounded together in a mortar rubbed with garlic. Turn them over and repeat the sprinkling. Take the cutlets out, stand them on a hot dish and keep them in a warm place. Add to the contents of the pan a dessertspoonful of vinegar, some stock, and a little cream. Bring to the boil, thicken with a sprinkling of corn flour, and pour this sauce over the cutlets. The same kind of dish can be varied by the addition of sliced onions, chopped mushrooms, and wine instead of vinegar. Sheep's kidneys make good entrees and delicious breakfast dishes, but although they do not present any difficulty of treatment, they are rarely daintily served in the average household. First of all, they must be used as fresh as possible, and after being skinned, rubbed all over with a mixture of salt and pepper mixed together on a plate or board previously slightly rubbed with garlic. Split through the middle, but not cut in two, laying the blade against the curved part of the kidney, the roughest part of white gristle should be removed, and the inside rubbed with the same mixture as the outside. Run a skewer through the open kidney, dip it in oil, and grill it briskly on both sides. To vary this dish, cut the kidneys in slices, after preparing them as above, and put them on a skewer with a slice of bacon between every two slices of kidney. Or, to improve this still further, allow the top of a moderate- sized mushroom to every slice of bacon.n8 Dainty Meals for Small Households Bis de Veau (Sweetbread) au gratin.—After having soaked and carefully cleaned the sweetbread, cut it in slices ; sprinkle some bread raspings on a buttered dish, put the sweetbread upon it in layers with thin slices of bacon between, add some breadcrumbs, fines herbes, and chopped morels, seasoning as you proceed with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Pour over this some stock, and cover with bread raspings and some small pieces of butter. Gratinez it in the oven in the usual way. Kogxion de Veau (Veal Kidney) saute.—Cut the kidney in thin slices, sautez it in some fresh melted butter with a tablespoonful of flour. When well browned moisten with white wine, salt and pepper, cover the pan and let them cook for twenty minutes. Serve very hot. Blanquette de Veau (Hashed Veal).—Cut some suit- able slices of cold remains of roast veal, toss them over the fire in a pan containing sliced onions and some hot fat, when thoroughly hot sprinkle with a tablespoonful of flour; after this has become amalgamated add the necessary quantity of stock, also salt, pepper, and mace. Cover this up, let it cook for a quarter of an hour, then thicken with the yolk of an egg and squeeze in a few drops of lemon juice. Serve very hot with fried croutons. Cervelles de Veau (Calves' Brains).—All kinds of brains must first be scalded to thoroughly cleanse them and to facilitate the removal of the skin; then again scalded in salted water to keep them white. Whatever recipe is to be followed, this must be done first. en Sauce.—Make a white sauce, boil the brains in the same for about ten minutes, and serve hot on slices of fried bread. Frites (Fried).—Aftei having prepared the brains as above, cut them into small pieces and sprinkle plenti- fully with lemon juice, dip them in batter and fry them. Serve very hot garnished with parsley.Entries 119 Foie de Veau en Sauce (Calves' Liver).—Cut into slices about a pound of liver, sprinkling these with flour. Put two large chopped-up onions into a pan and slightly brown them in butter, then put in the liver, let it become thoroughly heated; now add some stock (enough to thoroughly moisten the meat), pepper and salt, and some chopped mushrooms or morels, and let this cook fairly slowly for half an hour; the meat should then be quite tender. Stir the yolks of two eggs in a little stock, add a small handful of chopped parsley and chives (or the green part of some spring onions), a small piece of butter, and a squeeze of lemon. Pour this slowly into the saucepan containing the liver, stirring the gravy steadily all the time, and until it has boiled up once; then serve in an entree dish with potatoes sautees. Grille (Grilled).—This makes an excellent entree and a convenient breakfast dish. Cut in slices as above, rub in some pepper and salt, put them on the gridiron ; fry a few slices of bacon rather crisp. Serve the liver, always putting two pieces together with a slice of bacon, sprinkled with butter and chopped parsley, in between, forming a sort of bacon sandwich. A garniture of vege- table marrow, or stewed cucumber, or pickled gherkins all make a pleasant accompaniment to this simple but delicious dish. Cotelettes de Veau (Veal Chops) a la Bordelaise.—These must not be confused with what English cooks call veal cutlets. These, in the French cuisine, consist of slices of the fillet prepared in various ways. The French cotelette is a chop pure and simple, and is both good and useful for entrees. Choose them not too large, trim them to look dainty, chopping off part of the bone if necessary ; rub them well over with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; chop up a slice of bacon, one shallot, a sprig or two of parsley and tarragon, stir into this onei2o Dainty Meals for Small Households egg, spread this mixture over each chop, and brush it all over with the yolk of egg; butter a baking dish, sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, lay the chops in side by side, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of stock and red wine respectively, and bake in the oven until done. The stock, &c, should be nearly absorbed by the time the chops are ready. Serve with fried parsley and sliced lemon. Or they can be plainly fried with breadcrumbs, and served with lemon and stuffed tomatoes. Tete de Veau (Calves' Head).—This is generally bought ready cooked, one half being sufficient for ordinary pur- poses ; but it is well to know how to treat it at home. The preliminaries, as with sweetbread, calves' feet, &c, are always the same. See that it is well scraped before the butcher sends it home ; tie it up in thin butter muslin and soak it in boiling water for half an hour. (The water should be kept very hot during this time.) Drain off the moisture, pour fresh cold water over the head, and wipe it with a clean soft cloth. Into a fish or other kettle of suit- able size, put enough fat to cover the bottom when hot, stir in four heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, a small onion finely sliced ; add about three to four pints of water, put in three carrots cut in pieces and one whole onion ; season with salt and pepper, and flavour with mace, cloves, parsley, thyme, half a dozen peppercorns, a bay- leaf, and a tiny garlic root, all tied in a bag, which must be removed at the end of an hour. Finally stir in a tea- cupful of vinegar. Let this mixture boil up, put in the head or part of it, cover, and after the first boil, let it simmer slowly for at least two and a half hours. When cold it can be prepared according to any desired recipe. en tortue.—Cut the necessary quantity of slices, rub them over well with salt and pepper ; brown in a suitable pan, some flour, chopped onions in hot fat, thenEntries 121 add some stock or good gravy, and in this cook the slices ; after one or two boils put in a small tumblerful of wine, a few drops of Maggi essence, a pinch of Nepaul pepper, and stew the whole till the liquor has been reduced and consequently thickened. At the last moment squeeze in a few drops of lemon juice, which will improve the flavour of the whole. Frite (Fried).—Or the slices, being cut thin and of even shape, may with great advantage be dipped in batter and fried. Pigs', sheep's, and calves' feet make delicious entrees or breakfast dishes when well and carefully prepared ; the latter are the most nourishing of the three. In any case they must be thoroughly scalded, scraped very smooth, boiled until quite tender, then boned. After which they may be cut in slices, seasoned, dipped in batter and fried, or served au gratin, with alternate layers of maccaroni or potatoes (previously parboiled) on slices of bacon. Or they can one and all be stewed and served with any suitable sauces, those produced by means of the Driessauces not excepted. And finally, they may be split in two, dipped in the beaten-up yolk of an egg, rolled in bread raspings and grilled. They can then be served with a garnish of parsley, with a sauce tartare as an accompaniment. Kicheree (Yellow Rice).—lib. Nizam rice, Jib. Moong dhall, mix together, wash in cold water three or four minutes and soak ; two large onions finely sliced, fib. butter, ten cardamoms, ten cloves, four sticks Indian cinnamon two inches long, two teaspoonfuls Nizam ground turmeric, salt to taste. Intx^ a large roomy saucepan put the butter, onions, and spices, cook until the onions turn a pale straw colour, drain away the water from the mixture of rice and dhall and turn this into a saucepan. Add the turmeric and salt. Stir thoroughly and let the122 Dainty Meals for Small Households rice and dhall cook in the butter, &c, for a minute or two. Add now boiling water sufficient to cover the rice, and to stand over it about an inch. After mixing well, cover the pan closely, and stand it on the hob to cook slowly until all the moisture is absorbed in the rice. Serve the Kicheree piled up on a flat dish with hard- boiled eggs and a little fried onion. (Mr. E. P. Veera- sawmy's recipe.) " Country Captain."—An Anglo-Indian breakfast dish or entree. Ingredients : lib. cold meat freed from skin and fat, one dessertspoonful each of " Nizam" curry powder and " Nizam" garlic vinegar, one tea- spoonful of 11 Nizam" tamarind vinegar, one small onion finely sliced, Jib. butter, lard, or dripping, and salt to taste. Method : Cut up the meat into small squares, and mix with it the curry powder, garlic, and tamarind vinegars. Into a saute pan put the butter and the onions ; cook the onions for four or five minutes ; turn the meat into the pan, and sprinkle a little salt over it ; stir and cook for ten minutes ; the pan must be constantly stirred to prevent the meat burning ; there must be no gravy, and the dish is to be served garnished with fried onions. (E. P. Veerasawmy's recipe.) Omelette aux fines herbes (Omelet, plain).—Break some eggs into a basin, season with salt and pepper, put in two or three little pieces of butter, and beat with a fork ; meantime have some butter heating in a clean frying-pan over the fire, and as soon as it begins to smoke throw in the contents of the basin, which will immediately spread all over the pan. Hold the handle all the time with the left hand, shaking the pan aHtittle so that there is no risk of burning, and with the right, by means of a fork or palette knife, lift the eggs gently from the pan, working steadily all round the utensil; when the underneath part is just set, and before the centre becomes stiff, slip theEntries 123 omelet to the edge of the pan to turn it, and quickly reverse it on to the hot dish in which it should at once be sent to table. The great mistake generally made in the manufacture of omelets is that the operator is apt to forget that the eggs really go on setting after they have left the pan, and should therefore be put into the dish whilst they are still almost liquid in the middle of the omelet. This omelet can be varied ad infinitum with the addition of fines herbes, chopped bacon, mushrooms, kidney, sardines, anchovies, &c. Omelette Farcie (Stuffei Omelet).—Mix a little flour with the eggs and seasoning, as this should be more like a pancake than an omelet pure and simple. Have ready, thoroughly minced, the cold remains of any fish, fowl, or meat, together with finely-chopped herbs and onions, rather hot seasoning, moistened with the yolk of an egg, and, if necessary, a spoonful or so of stock ; fry the eggs, &c, in a small pan, spread the mixture over it, fold it and dish it up, or, if more than one is required, send them in one by one as soon as they are ready, as they should be eaten very hot. (Eufs en Cocottes (Pattikin Eggs).—Butter some French earthenware pattikins, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, break two fresh eggs into each one, place a small piece of butter on the top with another pinch of seasoning (and breadcrumbs if desired), and heat in the oven till well set.CHAPTER IX. a. BEEF. b. MUTTON. Beef is the first on the list of what the French call viande de boucherie. In choosing it, remember that it should be fine-grained, very red, and slightly " veined " with white ; if the fat has a yellowish tint it is a sign that the meat is young, in good condition, and promises to be tender. Moreover it should not be too fresh, for even when the animal is young it is apt to be hard. The commonest recipe is, of course, that of the pot au feu ; some persons may be inclined to exclaim at the thought of eating 11 soup meat," and especially at having it included under such a heading as " Dainty Meals " ; but let them try before they complain. Boiled beef must sometimes be used in the household, boiled salt beef figures on many tables, and if the French " bouilli " is well prepared, it is as good by way of change as any other piece of meat. Take a suitable piece of the rump or flank, or, if preferred, of the brisket (which, of course, is from quite another part of the animal, and will prove rather fat), beat it well, and let it hang for a few days in a cool larder or cellar (certainly not less than thirty hours even in the summer) ; rub it all over with a mixture of salt and pepper, and put it into the pot or marmite with cold water suitably salted ; add to this a few giblets, if there happen to be any handy, as they greatly refine the125 Beef flavour ; also some carrots, a turnip, three or four leeks, a couple of pieces of celery, one onion studded with six cloves, and a few sprigs of parsley. The whole secret of making good pot au feu to advantage—i.e. so as to be able to utilize the meat afterwards without finding it hard and tasteless—lies in letting the simmering proceed very slowly, and as long as possible. After the first " boil," which should on no account be hastened, skim- ming must be continued regularly as often as necessary. The proportion of meat and water is generally reckoned thus : about lib. of meat to every pint and a half of water. Two other points should be well observed—the lid of the pot must not be put down tightly until the contents have boiled and most of the necessary skimming has taken place, and it is advisable to add the vegetables above mentioned at this particular moment also, after which cover the pot, and uncover it only to see whether any scum has risen to the surface. According to the size of the joint, the time allowed must vary from three hours upwards, and the fire should be kept as evenly slack as possible, so that only gentle simmering takes place. The meat, being cooked and quite tender, should be served on a very hot dish with a garniture of potatoes mashed with milk or a little cream, young carrots sliced and boiled, with a sprinkling of parsley (or chervil), together with a few small spring onions, green stalks and all, chopped extremely fine ; a sauce piquante should be the accompaniment to this homely but decidedly excel- lent change in the menu. The Continental "boeuf a la mode " brings in the convenient use of the less favoured part of the animal, which, however, can be served as daintily as primer u cuts." The meat of the upper part of the shin, or some of the rump are generally used ; beat it, rub a little salad oil, salt, and pepper all over it, and lard it well.i^6 Dainty Meals for Small Households (This is a great improvement, but not a sine qua non) Put into a suitable utensil a little fat (say a tablespoon- ful), lay some pieces of bacon rind, fat upwards, all over the bottom, and put the meat in. To this add a small tumblerful of white wine, two breakfast-cupfuls of stock, and one of water. Let this boil up twice, skimming when necessary; then add salt, pepper, and some parsley, an onion, a bay-leaf, and half a dozen cloves and peppercorns in a muslin bag. Put the utensil in the oven, and stew gently for two hours. Now add some carrots and onions sliced, and continue the stewing for another half-hour. Dish up the meat with the carrots and onions. Strain the liquor, put it back over the fire, stir in a little flour, pour it over the meat, and serve very hot. The remains of this simple joint can be utilized in various ways ; as entrees, for instance, it can be cut in slices, warmed in a bain-marie, and served with a sauce Madere, with a thick tomato sauce and rice, with mushrooms, &c. It is also excellent for mincing purposes, for stuffing marrows, and any kind of rolled meats. Bceuf (Beef) en Daube (releve).—Take a piece of the buttock, hang it for a few days, wash it, and beat it well before cooking it. Trim it if required to a suitable shape, rolling it on the board to round it, and lard it. Line a saucepan with some bacon rind, put the meat in with pepper, salt, a bouquet, carrots, onions, leeks, &c. (as for the pot-au-feu), one bay-leaf, a small crust of bread rubbed with garlic, half a calf s foot (if handy), a table- spoonful or two of brandy, and a teacupful of white or red cooking wine, according to taste. Cover the saucepan well and let it simmer over a slack fire for four or six hours, according to the size of the joint. When it is quite tender put it on a hot dish, strain the liquor in which it127 Beef has cooked, remove the fat, and pour it over the meat, or send it in in a sauce-boat. al'Etuvee (Stewed) [releve].—Choose an evenly cut piece of the rump, beat it well after hanging as before, tie round it two or three slices of bacon with a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of chevril. Put this into a braising pan or other convenient utensil, the lid of which will hold a good layer of very hot charcoal embers, and add about a pint and a half of white cooking wine, a pint of stock, a piece of bacon rind, a pinch of mace, any small remains of cold veal or fowl, plenty of seasoning, and an onion. Cover it up and let it simmer slowly; it requires about four to five hours to thoroughly succeed with a moderate-sized piece of meat. When the meat begins to brown, turn it over, sprinkling it with a little flour, and add a dozen or two of small onions. Cover up again and leave till quite tender. Untie the meat, put it on a hot dish, arrange the small onions as a garniture all around it, complete the garnish with spinach or Brussels sprouts according to the season, remove the fat from the liquor in which it has cooked, thicken it a little if necessary, add a few mush- rooms (previously boiled till tender), or not, and pour the sauce over the meat. The most delicious part of beef is undoubtedly the fillet. Take, for instance, this recipe :— a la Creme (releve).—Trim a good-sized fillet, rub it well with a mixture of pepper and salt, and tie it round with a few thin slices of streaky bacon. When fillet is ordered, the English butchers send a piece of meat that would greatly astonish a French cook ; but if the fat is cut off, and the untidy pieces well cut and trimmed, the fillet will remain in its original oblong shape. Put the meat in the oven in a long fireproof baking dish, and when the outside is moderately brown, remove the bacon. Add to the gravy, which will already have formed, half a128 Dainty Meals for Small Households tumblerful of good stock and of water respectively, a bay- leaf, and a large onion well studded with cloves. Let the meat go on cooking slowly till it is just slightly, but evenly underdone throughout ; meantime prepare a sauce with a small lump of butter, made very hot, some flour (about a tablespoonful), brown breadcrumbs, onions chopped very fine, plenty of salt and pepper, a claret- tumblerful of fresh cream, and a little of the gravy from under the meat. Stir this over the fire till it is of suffi- cient thickness, pour all the gravy out of the dish, and put the meat back into the oven, with the freshly- made sauce ; baste it frequently for a quarter of an hour, and serve very hot. When a sirloin is ordered, it is a good plan to cook it in parts, and so produce agreeable variety. The undercut should be removed from the bone, the tail piece also cut off, and put aside for further use ; mean- time the actual sirloin or upper cut may be roasted. As to the fillet end, or undercut, it can be cut in slices, and grilled as so-called " filets mignons," to serve as an entree. When the meat has been cut into fairly thick slices, rub them with pepper and salt, sprinkle each one with oil, lay them one above the other, and press them between two plates, the upper one of which must be weighted with an iron, or any other heavy article. Grill them in the ordinary way, have ready some parsley butter to put over them, and serve them with potato chips or spinach as the case may be. The parsley with which the butter has been mixed should be chopped very fine with some small onions. The " tail " piece can be utilized in several ways, chiefly for entrees. It can be boiled after the method given in the first recipe treating of beef, and served with lettuces or cabbages ; or it may be minced in the raw state, together with a few slices of any remains of veal orBeef 129 poultry (though this mixture is not imperative), to form the principal ingredient for stuffing a marrow or a cucumber. This minced beef, added to rice previously parboiled, onions, breadcrumbs, chopped herbs, tomatoes, and plenty of flavouring, is the very best material for the delicious stuffed marrow. It is put into the centre of the vegetable after the latter has been scooped out, well tied round with string, and baked in a dish in the oven. The ends may be closed with some plain dough, or the whole thing can be wrapped in very fine muslin, which can be removed before serving, and will effectually prevent the stuffing from falling out. Besides the actual large joints or pieces de resistance provided by that most useful animal the ox, there are many ways of preparing various parts of it. The well-known " bifteck," as the Frenchman calls it, is, oddly enough, much better treated abroad than it is in this country. The English cook, of course, may excel in grilling, but, given a steak that is perhaps neither very young nor particularly tender, the Frenchman brings about a better result ; his production will pass muster anywhere, and will probably be put down as a piece of fillet, when it may only have been plain beef steak, or some other inferior piece of meat. The best way in which to turn out an excellent fillet, so called or otherwise (and obviously it becomes the good cook to be able to make shift with anything if the necessity occurs), is to cut into suitable pieces part of the fillet, preferably, but in default of this any part of the rump will do. Shape and trim them well, beat them thoroughly, rub them with salt, pepper, and good salad oil, flavour them very slightly with garlic, and arrange them in layers between two plates, the upper one of which should be heavily weighted. According to the time of year, and still more to the part of the animal used, this weighting should be more or less prolonged— K130 Dainty Meals for Small Households i.e. if the fillet is used it is scarcely required, though the meat must be flavoured just the same, but with other parts twenty-four hours' pressure may be advisable. Grill the meat slowly, but steadily, and serve with chopped parsley or chervil, young onions, and plenty of good gravy ; this can be entirely omitted, according to taste, or it can be replaced by a sauce tartare. Meat treated thus, and cut in small pieces, would figure as an entree, and be called " filets mignons," with the addition of sauce tartare or not, as the case may be. The piece known to the French cook as entrecdte is a most suitable subject for an entree, and it can be prepared in different ways ; it answers to the rib. It can, of course, be served as a large steak plainly grilled, or as E&trecote Braisee.—Remove the bone and gristle, trim the meat and slightly brown it in a suitable pan with a few slices of bacon cut rather thick ; draw it aside, and meantime prepare a roux in a braisiere ; put the meat with the bacon, and any liquor it may have formed, into the braiser with spices and seasoning to taste, three or four onions, some carrots, a bouquet garni, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of brandy, or common eau de vie. Cover as directed for braising, and let it simmer slowly for four hours. Remove the fat, and serve. a la Puree.—After the meat has hung for a while to become tender, beat it and trim it, put it into a shallow dish with sliced onions, two or three sprigs of parsley and thyme, one bay-leaf, pepper, salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a wineglassful of eau de vie. (This, by the way, is most useful for the preparation of certain dishes ; it is also less extravagant than brandy, and can be bought at any foreign comestible establishment.) Let it remain in a cool place for four or five hours—it can be left with advantage as long as twelve hours —put it into aBeef 131 saute pan over a lump of butter, stand it over a brisk fire, cover the lid with embers ; or in the oven ; let it sauter for half an hour, not too fast, and turning it over once or twice the while ; at the last moment add a little of the liquor in which the meat has stood, and serve, preferably over an onion puree, but, if this is objected to, any other kind of vegetable will do. The plain entrecote can be varied by a mushroom sauce, or served with a garnish of stuffed olives and small tomatoes, also stuffed. In the above preparations, and in others of the same kind, the eau de vie may with advantage be replaced by a tablespoonful of Madeira. A bottle of this wine used for cooking purposes in the quantity just named will, of course, last a long time, and must not be looked upon as an expensive item. langue de Boeuf en Daube (Ox Tongue).—Choose a moderate-sized fresh ox tongue, boil it for three hours slowly in slightly salted water, then remove the skin carefully so as not to disfigure the flesh, and lard it fairly closely. Put into a pan of suitable size a piece of butter, and in this brown a handful of very fine breadcrumbs ; add a breakfast-cupful of good stock, nearly double this quantity of French white wine, some small onions, salt and pepper to taste ; stir this for a few seconds, and put the tongue in. As soon as the liquor begins to boil, close the utensil quite tightly, and place it in the oven, or over some hot charcoal embers, or on a gas stove (not fully turned on), so that the contents may merely simmer for three hours. Serve with the sauce without straining. The above can be used as an entree ; in a small family menu it would often figure as the joint. Before cook- ing tongues, whatever the recipe may be according to which it is to be prepared, it is advisable and usual to put them to soak for about twenty-four hours in fresh water and in a cool place. The water should be changed132 Dainty Meals for Small Households four or five times, and in very hot weather even more frequently ; then the root should be removed sufficiently to give the tongue a well-trimmed appearance. Sauce Hachee.—After taking the tongue out of soak, put it into quite boiling water to scald it, remove the skin and trim off any untidy ends; lard it with rather thick pieces of bacon well rubbed in a mixture of salt, pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, chopped shallots, and parsley, all well pounded together. Line a braisiere in the usual way with some slices of bacon, or even bacon rind, put in a small piece of the knuckle of veal, or any veal bone that may be available (this helps to improve the sauce), sprigs of parsley, some chives, a sprig of thyme and tarragon, three or four cloves, half a dozen small onions, and a carrot; lay the tongue on this mixture, arranging the larger items all around the meat ; add a tumblerful of white wine, a wineglassful of eau de vie, or some better wine than the ordinary white, and finally a tumblerful of stock, or even water if the former is not available. Cover the tongue with a piece of buttered paper fitting the inside of the utensil, fix the lid on closely; this precaution prevents evaporation, which is the enemy of good braising. It has already been stated that the best way to ensure perfect closing is to press some raw dough all round the part where the lid joins the saucepan, &c. Braise the tongue slowly for five hours; when taken out, put it on a hot dish, and split it open lengthwise without actually cutting it in half. Keep it hot. Remove the fat from the liquor in the braising pan, strain it, make a good roux with it, reduce it to the desired quantity, add some chopped shallots, parsley, mushrooms, olives, and gherkins, all well chopped, season a little more with a pinch of cayenne or some coralline pepper; let the mixture boil for about five minutes, stirring all the time; pour it over133 Beef the tongue and serve. This is a good entree, and can also be served with a plain sauce blanche and capers, or with a sauce tomate. Piquee Rotie (Larded and Roasted) [Releve or Rot].—Prepare as above ; partly cook the tongue with a teacupful of stock, some slices of bacon, a bouquet garni, one or two large onions studded with cloves, salt and pepper. Take it out, let it stand till cold, lard it with a coarse larding needle, cutting the bacon thick at the end which is to remain inside the tongue and thinner at the other end. Tie it up in a piece of buttered paper, and roast it before the fire for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a sauce piquante or a sauce tartare. Before leaving the subject of beef, there are other parts of which something must be said, although they do not perhaps appear on the average English table ; but they are both edible and useful, and must have a place in any treatise on cookery which aims at being practical. Besides which, it is possibly from ignorance that they have not been attempted by the ordinary English cook, and they may find favour with many of our readers if the latter care to give these parts of the ox a fair trial. These are the heart, liver, tail, and last, though by no means least, the " gras-double," commonly known as tripe (see Entrees). Now, for such things very careful cooking is required, and if the recipes (suggested by those who have had much experience in the preparation of dishes that are not so well known in this country as in others) are not strictly followed, the result must obviously be unsatisfactory, although the material is not necessarily to be despised. That is what some people who attempt foreign dishes are rather apt to forget ; they lessen the time prescribed for soaking, for instance, or think that the hours required for the proper simmering of a certain item must be exaggerated, or attempt various134 Dainty Meals for Small Households little changes which they consider unimportant, with the result that the production is, not unnaturally, less palatable than they had been led to expect. It is then tabooed as a "nasty concoction, all very fine, perhaps, for those who have a poor taste in matters culinary, but not good enough for us." In view, then, of giving uncommon dishes a fair chance, I should advise strict adherence to recipes, especially when they are given by one who (although not aspiring to a name in the culinary world) at least speaks from real and long experience, which, after all, is the most practical test. Coenr (Heart).—This must be fresh and rather fat. Split it by cutting it lengthwise without actually dividing it ; wash it in two or three waters, and dry it thoroughly with a clean soft cloth, inside and out. Lay a slice of streaky bacon in the middle, close it, lard it finely, and tie it round with string. Put into a saucepan a good half pinl of white wine, two teacupfuls of stock, one of water, a teaspoonful of salt, and either a piece of knuckle of veal or half a calf's foot (the former will do just as well), stir all together, put it over the fire, add pepper, a pinch ot pounded mace, two large onions, and a couple of carrots ; when these ingredients have been stirred for a few minutes put in the heart, close the saucepan, and let the contents simmer for about four hours. After this time, and unless the boiling has been too rapid, the heart will be perfectly tender, and the gravy dark and thick. Re- move the onions, &c, serve with a garnish of baked tomatoes and mushrooms. Foie (Liver).—Scald a suitable piece of liver, remove the skin and any hard part that may be present, then lard it all over. Put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter, sprinkle it all over with flour ; stand it over the fire and let it slightly brown. At this point add a breakfast-cupfulMutton 135 of stock and one of red wine, a dozen small onions, salt and pepper to taste, a couple of blades of mace, a bay-leaf, and one carrot finely sliced. Cover and let it simmer for three hours. Take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, strain the gravy, reduce it a little (if necessary), thicken it with a little flour, and serve with the sauce poured over the liver, and the onions en garniture, b. Mutton. We now come to the subject of mutton, which is more improved by hanging than any other meat. It is im- perative to insist upon this, two or three days in summer and from five to ten in winter being the average length of time. Servants are apt to neglect this process, or to put it off, leaving the joint on a dish or larder shelf. Now, nothing is more harmful to mutton. It is cut very much the same in England as it is abroad ; the saddle and the loin are frequently used together as one large joint, though they can be taken separately as with beef, &c. Many parts practically untouched in this country can be successfully treated as entrees. Mutton is also considered more digestible than beef, veal, or pork, hence it is often in greater request. The leg, one of the staple joints, should be the subject of greater efforts at variety ; even the plain roasting and boiling can be effected with little differences, and made more succulent, if not absolutely uncommon. The modes to which the Continental cook resorts to achieve this purpose are very cleverly varied, and the results are delicious. Without giving here the recipes for roast and boiled leg according to the canons of the English cook, I will suggest more uncommon treatment of this useful joint. The fact that the leg can be halved at home, or that either end can be purchased from the butcher when136 Dainty Meals for Small Households a small number is concerned, will not make any palpable difference to the process. Gigot (marine) [Leg of Mutton].—Beat the joint, put it into a large pan with about a quart of good white vinegar; add a bay-leaf, some juniper berries, peppercorns, a cloved onion, and half a red herring, skinned, boned, and cut in small pieces ; let it stand well covered for a week, turning it over daily ; drain off the liquor, remove some of the coarser outside skin, rub the meat with garlic, spread a little soft lard over it, and put it in the baking tin, on a rack fitting inside ; into the tin pour a couple of tablespoonfuls of the strained liquor in which the meat has stood, the same quantity of stock, and add a lump of dripping the size of a small egg ; bake slowly for an hour, basting occasionally, then put in half a dozen potatoes, sliced, and a dozen or so of button onions ; as soon as these are tender, dish up the meat with the vegetables ; as a garnish strain the gravy and send it in separately or not as desired. Or, stand it as above, after beating and trimming it, in some vinegar ; the meat should previously be rubbed with a mixture of bay-leaves, sage, parsley, marjoram, salt, pepper, and two or three cloves, all finely chopped and pounded ; rub the pan with a piece of garlic, lay the meat in, weight it down heavily ; turn the mutton over morning and evening, and after three days lard it and bake or roast it very slowly ; into the basting liquor put a teacupful of cream, about half an hour before the meat is ready to be taken up. Fare! (Stuffed).—Choose a small leg, beat it well and remove the bone, being careful not to disfigure the joint. Prepare a mixture with some rice, bread- crumbs, chopped herbs, and onions, all previously parboiled in a little stock; this must not be too moist. Put the mixture in the place of the bone, tie the joint137 Mutton round, to a presentable shape, and bake in the oven or stew till tender. The breast of mutton can be stuffed in the same way as veal ; but, being rather fat, it is much more wasteful. For stews and entrees various parts of the mutton are much more useful than the foregoing beef or veal, and can be varied with different vegetables, served as purees, &c, As regards lamb, it is generally roasted, the principal joints at any rate, and that, as far as possible, in front of the fire ; though, of course, they can be treated otherwise if desired ; the fillet, for instance, may be cut up and grilled and afterwards served with a bechamel or a sauce tartare. Carre or Selle (Saddle) a la Provencale.—Lard it alter- nately with slips of bacon and anchovies, stew it for two hours or more (according to size) in a fireproof dish, with a variety of vegetables, for instance, celery, carrots, small onions, &c.; serve it with all its gravy. The fillet entirely removed from the bone is, perhaps, one of the daintiest parts of the sheep. Hang it as long as possible, lard it, and steep it for a couple of hours in equal parts of white wine and water, with pepper, salt, bay-leaves, &c. Brown it in a saucepan with a little butter, then add a little stock, and let it simmer slowly (covered up) until quite tender; serve with any kind of green vege- table ; or roast it and serve with cherry or currant sauce. It ago lit (Stewed),—Beat and trim the meat, rub it with garlic, salt, and pepper, and put it into a large marmite or stewpan containing the necessary amount of dripping, two or three carrots, a dozen small onions, a few pieces of celery, turnips (if in season), and a handful of mush- rooms ; cover and set it over the fire, turning the meat over at intervals of about ten minutes. When it is decidedly coloured, add a tumblerful of water and red or white wine respectively, a few slices of bacon, salt and138 Dainty Meals for Small Households pepper to taste. Cover and continue the 'stewing until the meat is quite tender. Melt a little fresh butter in a small saucepan, stir in a heaped tablespoonful of flour, and pour into this the necessary amount of the liquor in which the meat has stewed. When this has boiled up, squeeze in a few drops of lemon, dish up the meat with the vegetables around, pour the sauce over, and serve.CHAPTER X. d. VEAL. b. PORK. On the Continent, where veal is eaten even more gener- ally than here, it certainly is most deliciously served, and is used in the summer rather more than during the cold season. To be in a state of perfection the animal should be from two months to two and a half months old, but it is, of course, often eaten when it is considerably over that age ; May to September are considered its best months ; here it is mostly served during the cold part of the year. The fat should be very white, the lean meat but slightly tinted. It can be kept about two days in summer and four in winter. There is hardly any part of the animal which cannot be put to excellent use ; the tail is about the only item omitted from cookery books. The names which occur most often on menus are the longe) the quasi, the noix, and the rouelle, and the fact that the animal is cut differently on the other side of the Channel makes the identifying of these joints rather difficult for the inexperienced. The first is cut from the part extending from the ribs (or cutlets) to within three or four inches before the tail is reached ; the piece termed quasi should reach from the tail to the kidney, so that they are only different names, according to the manner in which nearly the same part happens to be cut. It is the same with the two latter. The noix is cut lengthwise out of the tail piece that corresponds as140 Dainty Meals for Small Households nearly as possible to what is called in English the chump end, whereas if it is cut crosswise it is termed rouelle. These two are mostly used for the well-known fricandeau, veau a la bourgeoise, &c. The carre corresponds to the longe, viz. to the best end of the loin with the kidney, but that expression is not very often used nowadays in ordinary menus. As I have already suggested elsewhere, it is very useful for the interested housewife to have some idea of the way in which butcher's meat can be divided. The Continental manner of disposing of the same is on the whole more economical and more advan- tageous than the English, and consequently the choice of medium joints more suited to small householders is much more varied. Obviously as long as the majority of people rest content with the large traditional pieces, no change can be expected on the part of the town butchers. But in the country, where the larger part of a small animal would possibly be taken by one house- hold, and where the " killing" is chiefly done for the u big house " of the neighbourhood, it is an easy matter to suggest a little variety in the dividing of the joints, and so put oneself in a position to experiment on un- accustomed recipes. The parts most suited for roasting are the longe and the quasi, but really there is no hard- and-fast rule about it, and almost any style may be attempted as fancy dictates with any available " cut." At the " Boucherie franchise" (Mme. Ursch, 46, Dean Street, Soho, W.) the meat is all cut in the French fashion. To those who are engaged (or merely interested) in cookery, veal, more than any other meat perhaps, fur- nishes an example of the striking difference resulting from careful or indifferent treatment. Almost every joint, as I have tried to show, requires some preliminary seasoning, pickling, or flavouring, as the case may be.141 Veal Narrow-minded culinary operators and housewives, and these, be it said without prejudice, are numerous, would doubtless be ready with the remark that " plain cooking should be plain " ; that they do not hold with all the (to them) " unnecessary fussing about" with oil, garlic, or other preliminary treatment, and that " a pinch of salt and pepper added in the usual way," is good enough for them, &c. Such remarks, I feel bound to add, are merely the result of lack of experience, and do not at all agree with the precept that u if a thing is worth doing at all, it is worth doing well." Here, again, I am repeating what I have already urged ; repetition, however, is a fault common to those keenly interested in their own hobby ; in cookery it is never superfluous ; hence my importunity, which my readers must forgive. The flesh of the animal with which I am dealing is decidedly insipid J>er se; yet with proper handling it be- comes the most succulent of all materials. This is an important fact to remember, especially where the ultimate object in making out a menu is to " edit" it in such a manner as to use up the article in question, not stingily, but as profitably as possible ; so that the advantage of taking pride in apparently trifling details may be found not only in the enjoyment of the joint, for instance, as it is served up for the first time, but on subsequent occa- sions. We all know the distress avowedly expressed or secretly felt at family meals, when a dish appears which suggests the brief but ominous thought, " What! mutton again ? " or beef, or veal, as the case may be, and it is to suggest means by which that tacit distrust in the housewife's capabilities may be cured, that this little book has been written. Therefore I say again, be careful of details, and remember that the more succulent the first hot dish has proved, the more suitable will the cold remains be for further use and varied adaptation.142 Dainty Meals for Small Households When the animal is young, leg of veal makes a delicious dish ; the bone can be removed or not according to taste; if it is taken out, the inside part of the meat should be well peppered, slightly salted, and a few thin strips of bacon used to line the empty space. After this, tie round the joint to give it an even shape, and lard it or not. Stand the meat in vinegar for about an hour, turn it over once or twice, wipe it well, rub it with salad oil, put it in a baking tin, with a few slices of beef or veal kidney, chopped parsley, onions, carrots, a couple of shallots, a tablespoonful of lard, a strip or two of bacon rind, and a cupful of stock. A joint weighing 4 to 5 lbs. should take about two hours to do thoroughly well. Baste frequently. Dish it up, remove the string, strain the gravy, and send in very hot. All meat except pork, which is too stringy for the purpose, can be prepared en daube (see preceding chapter). Oiseaux de Veau (Veal Olives).—Any part of the meat which can be evenly sliced will do for this dish; after having cut the required pieces, chop up or mince the odd pieces with some bacon, season to taste, add a little pounded mace, &c, and make a stuffing into a paste, with a little cream or milk, and the yolk of an egg (more according to the quantity of meat). Rub the veal with salt, pepper, and a little oil ; spread over each piece a little stuffing, roll up neatly, and tie them up. Have ready in a shallow pan some very hot fat, put in the olives ; when these have well coloured over the fire, take out some fat, leaving enough to cover the bottom of the pan, add a teacupful of stock or gravy, cover, and let the contents reduce. Turn the olives over, and when brown, dish up, and serve in the gravy. a la Broche (Roasted) [Rot].—Choose one of the joints according to requirements, trim it to a suitable shape, and lard it well, first rolling the bacon employed forVeal 143 that purpose in a mixture of salt, pepper, and very finely- chopped fines herbes ; put it into an earthenware vessel (the brown French terrines now sold in London will do well), with a few sprigs of parsley, some chives, mush- rooms, a bay-leaf, and two shallots, all well chopped ; season with pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and pour over the whole a teacupful of oil. Cover it up, and stand it in a cool place for four or five hours. Remove the meat without draining it, tie it up in a large sheet of buttered paper, soak it in the mixture, and roast it before the fire, allowing the usual time according to the weight. It must roast slowly. Remove the paper, put into a saucepan a couple of tablespoonfuls of the pickling mixture, the same quantity of the gravy escaped from the meat, a little piece of butter worked with flour, a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and stir it till boiling point is reached. Send this gravy in on the same dish as the meat. a la Bourgeoise (Entree or Rot).—Choose a lean piece of veal from the leg, shoulder, or any other con- venient part. Put it into a saucepan with some slices of bacon and a little butter ; let it slightly colour with the lid on, taking care that it does not become attached to the saucepan, then add a little water (not more than a teacupful), a bouquet garni, two or three carrots and onions respectively, a small turnip, and some pepper and salt. Put the cover on, and cook it over the fire if more convenient, but preferably in the oven, for two or three hours, according to the size of the piece of meat. Turn the meat over once or twice, and baste it a little, but not oftener than absolutely necessary to keep it a good colour. The process must be very slow, or the water, being too quickly absorbed, will need to be added in a quantity which would spoil the excellent gravy which should be produced. It ought not to be necessary to put144 Dainty Meals for Small Households in more than a second teacupful of water or stock during the whole of the operation. If served as an entree, the onions, &c, must be put round the dish en garniture, and the sauce poured on. In such a case it is well to put a few more of each vegetable in the saucepan at the very beginning, with the bacon. If it is to appear as a roast, dish it up alone, and send in the gravy in a sauce-boat. an jus (in gravy) [Entree or Hot].—Take the same sort of piece as the above, and if it is very lean lard it all over ; put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, and stand it over the fire, well covered to let it brown slightly more than in the above recipe. Add the needful seasoning, cover it up, put it in the oven with a small tumblerful of stock, and let it gently simmer until the meat is quite tender. This will take, according to the weight of meat, from two hours upwards. Strain the gravy, put it into another sauce- pan, thicken it over the fire if necessary, and send the meat in as a rot. Or, if it is to be used as an entree, garnish it with spinach, celery, or stewed endive, and serve it with a tomato sauce. Poitrine Farcie (Stuffed Breast).—Open up the under- neath of the breast, cut out the meat from the bones so as to form a large pocket, fill it completely with the following farce :—Make a mixture of spinach, asparagus, artichoke bottoms, herbs, onions, mushrooms, and bacon, chopped moderately fine, and a large handful of bread- crumbs previously boiled in milk with the moisture squeezed off; add the yolk of an egg, and plenty of seasoning, and thoroughly mix all the ingredients. When the meat is stuffed, skewer it, and tie it round with a string, cook either in the marmite or in an ordinary stewpan that will go into the oven, and, before putting in the meat, line the pan with bacon rind, some sliced onions, morels, &c. Of course, if the aboveVeal 145 ingredients are too extravagant for everyday use, other equally good stuffing can be produced with any suitable cold remains, breadcrumbs, chopped herbs, &c. Fricandeau.—Use any piece of lean veal, unless the fillet be available, without much bone, that will be presentable for a principal dish, lard it, especially if there is little fat ; put into a saucepan of a suit- able size some sliced carrot, onions, cloves, small pieces of bacon, and a bouquet. Put the meat in with half a teacupful of stock, cover, and set it over the fire ; when slightly brown put it into the oven with some mushrooms, and a small tumblerful of red wine and a little more stock. When quite tender dish up the meat, arrange the vegetables around it, remove the bouquet, thicken the gravy with a little fecula, and send it in separately ; or cover with buttered paper, and roast before a brisk open fire. Foie Eoti (Eoast Liver).—Choose a well-shaped liver, lard it closely, tie it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of the fire for an hour and a half, according to size, basting it frequently. Serve with a sauce piquante or with a poivrade, or even with a brown gravy thickened with a couple of tablespoonfuls of fresh cream. (As stated before, a little milk allowed to thicken and become sour is an excellent substitute for this cream.) Or : Prepare as above, but before roasting, steep the liver in an earthenware vessel in vinegar or white wine, with parsley, an onion, thyme, and a bay-leaf. After about four hours strain off the liquor, sprinkle the liver with salt, rub it over with a little salad oil, and proceed as above, or bake it in the oven. Eis de Veau (Sweetbread).—Wash in lukewarm water, then scald in boiling water, trim it, lard it or not, stew it for an hour in the same way as the fricandeau, and serve with a plain gravy or any fancy sauce. Or : Cut it in L146 Dainty Meals for Small Households fairly thick slices, put a piece of bacon between these ; tie them round, skewer, and roast or bake them. Galantine.—Entirely bone a shoulder of veal, and remove the skin and the fat ; cut off a small portion of the flesh, chop it very fine with an equal quantity of fat bacon and ham, and, when thoroughly well mixed, spread this in a layer over the rest of the shoulder, which should be laid flat on a board. Over this stuffing put some strips of bacon, slices of tongue, or beef, previously slightly parboiled, and a layer of mushrooms, or truffles. Sprinkle as you go on with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; roll the meat up lengthwise very tightly, tie it round with a string, and then in a clean cloth or thick butter muslin ; put it into a suitable utensil, which must contain some bacon rind, sliced carrots, onions, a sprig of thyme and parsley, and equal parts of stock and white wine to cover the meat. Let it slowly boil over a moderate fire for three hours at least ; when sufficiently tender drain off the liquor, and let the meat cool without removing the cloth. When cold take off the cloth and the string, and put the meat under a weight, evenly distributed. Meantime strain the liquor, add to it two or three well whipped whites of eggs, put this into a small saucepan over a brisk fire, stirring till the mixture boils, then cover it up and let it slowly simmer for half an hour. Strain it, and when cold, use the jelly which will be formed to garnish the galantine. Remains of all kinds of cold meats can easily be utilized for entrees, luncheon dishes, &c, by warming them up in a good brown ragout sauce as given in the chapter concerning that subject. The great point is to make the gravy rather thick, and to flavour it as much as possible ; mushroom trimmings and dried morels come in very handily in such case ; also the meat should only be put in a little while before serving, as if it is allowedVeal 147 to cook a second time it would become tough, and also lose its goodness. Referring to the Continental veal cutlet or chop, which is rarely served (as such) in this country, except in the joint known as the loin, I may suggest that for an entree, or for a luncheon dish, two or three chops could often be spared from the loin. To prepare this dainty dish, trim the chop carefully, i.e. remove all the meat from the bone, except the " nut11 or real cutlet; put the trimmings aside for stock or other purposes, beat and lard the chops and put them into a pan containing hot fat, a small carrot, a cloved onion, a pinch of grated nutmeg; after ten minutes add a couple of tablespoonfuls of good gravy (with one of cream or sour milk, if handy). When the chops are tender dish them up with paper frills, keep them in a hot place, strain the gravy and put it over the fire again, stirring in another tablespoonful of cream. When nearly boiling pour over the chops and serve. For warmed-up dishes any cold remains can be used ; most of them can be very satisfactorily served up, accord- ing to the recipes given in Messrs. Cosenza & Com- pany's pamphlet sent to all purchasers of the wonderful Driessauces ; these it is useless to reprint here. Suffice it to say that several varieties can be produced at a few moments' notice, and that the results obtained are nothing less than delicious. If the above are not available, put some fat in a stew- pan, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, keeping the pan over a brisk fire ; add a tumblerful of stock, a tablespoonful of wine, and one of gravy. Into this put a carrot and cloved onion. Cover, and let simmer; after twenty minutes strain ; put the liquor over the fire again with the sliced cold meat, and an onion previously sliced and browned in fat; add the yolk of an egg three minutes148 Dainty Meals for Small Households before serving ; dish up and serve hot with a garnish of fried sippets. b. Pork. In its natural condition, i.e. eaten as fresh meat, this is the least esteemed of all, possibly because in this state it is decidedly indigestible. This fault can, to a great extent, be mitigated by slow and careful cooking. Fresh pork thoroughly well grilled, roasted, and even braised, can be made an acceptable dish for a large section of the public. On the other hand, when it is cured, smoked, made into a variety of saucissons, &c, its usefulness is well- nigh unlimited, and those who have had practical ex- perience in the matter must agree in pronouncing this part of the country housewife's province one of intense interest. There is no hard and fast rule to lay down as to the general division of pork, although a certain plan is adopted, and has become almost imperative by long usage; where large families are concerned it is, of course, advisable for the sake of convenience and economy to store bacon, &c, in large quantities, rather than buy a few pounds at a time. Fresh pork, that is to say, all the joints that ought to be roasted and used within a few days, are as follows:— The cotelettes (chops) to be served separately or together, as the loin or carre. The longe or fillet, i.e. the fleshy portion between the cutlets and the leg, one of the best joints. The filet-mignon, running along the spine (really belonging to the longe), weighing only about a pound, but the most delicate tasting part of the animal. The hams and shoulders, which are either cured whole, boned and stuffed, or used for making sausages, belong properly to the curing and smoking department. Most of the fat149 Pork available for cooking purposes is situated between the skin and the fleshy parts ; it is of two distinct kinds, that nearest the skin, which gives us the well-known streaky- bacon, being much harder than the deeper layer next the actual meat, which is melted into cooking lard. The fat that lies round the kidneys (the panne of French recipes) is used in the preparation of delicate stuffings, in the manufacture of certain kinds of sausages, and pro- duces a very fine quality of lard ; unfortunately this is not dealt with separately by the British pork butcher, though country people who kill their own pigs must greatly benefit by following this plan. Where half sides of bacon, hams, smoked sausages, &c, can be stored, a dry room, in which a wood fire can occasionally be made, is the best place for them. If this is impracticable, they should be hung from the ceiling in the kitchen or other available space which is fairly evenly heated ; to prevent the adherence of dust, &c., each flitch or separate article can be loosely tied in muslin. Hams sold as " special cheap lots" are generally unpleasantly salt, and must be treated accordingly. Streaky bacon which is thin (shallow in cut) is to be avoided for the same reason ; it is generally lower in price, and not to be recommended for frying, but it is useful for tying round fowls, pigeons, &c. Again, English people often wonder why the saucisses grillees they eat and enjoy on the Continent are so totally different from those at home ; and the answer is not far to seek. The use of breadcrumbs allowed in the British sausage naturally brings about their abuse, with the " stodgy " results only too well known. Breadcrumbs are an unknown quantity in foreign sausages, and it is to this immunity that is due the substance appreciated by all persons who have once been initiated into the mysteries of French charcuterie. Moreover, the sausages150 Dainty Meals for Small Households indulged in by our neighbours are so much more varied than those provided by the English pork butcher, that it may be well to give a few reliable instructions for making such things at home. Saucisses a Griller (Fresh Sausages).—Take equal quantities of lean and fat pork )\ allow a seasoning mixture of foz. of salt, one pinch of long pepper, and two pinches of common pepper to every 2lb. of meat, and chop or mince very finely in the machine. When these ingredients are all thoroughly mixed and formed into a paste, moisten it with some water, or, better still, with two eggs to every 2lb. of meat. Or, take three parts of veal and one of rather fat fresh bacon previously slightly warmed ; chop and season as before, moistening it in the same proportions with a quarter of a pint of good milk or cream. The skins should in every case be very carefully chosen according to the size required, and well washed in lukewarm water to make them soft and pliable, so that the stuffing may be promptly inserted. Cervelas.—Take equal quantities of lean and fat pork ; remove all skin and gristle, and cut it up in small pieces. With every 2lb. of meat mix ioz. of salt, a pinch of saltpetre, a teaspoonful of quatre epices, and a little garlic; press this into suitable bladders after thoroughly working the ingredients. Finish off the sausage by tying up tightly in lengths of about ten inches ; boil for forty minutes, strain, squeeze with the hand, and hang them up in a suitable place till wanted. These naturally do not keep so long as smoked sausages. Andouilles Fumees.—Take the fat part of a pig's paunch ; wash thoroughly, cut into strips, and put these into a tureen, seasoning them plentifully with salt and quatre epices, a pinch of chopped shallots, a claret-glassful of wine vinegar, and a wineglassful of alcohol; cover up forPork two days in a cold place, and strain ; put the paste into bladders, tie up rather short, and smoke for ten days ; then boil them for four hours, in water containing salt, vegetables, and aromatic herbs ; strain them, wipe them dry, and hang them up. When wanted for use snip them slightly, and grill them over a slack fire from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Among the larger kinds of sausages, known as saucissons, there is an unlimited variety, and they are equally easy to prepare. Salami.—Chop coarsely one part of lean and of fat pork, respectively, and add to this two parts of lean beef minced very finely ; season every 2lb. of meat with ioz. of salt, foz. of pepper, a lesser quantity of sugar, and a pinch of saltpetre ; infuse two garlic roots for half an hour in a tumblerful of Rhine or white wine, and pour the liquor over the meat. Work this mixture thoroughly, so that all the ingredients may be thoroughly well blended. Put it into calves' bladders, tie securely, hang up to dry for six days, smoke according to taste, and store in a cold dry place. de Bologne.—Mince very finely some fleshy parts of beef; free it from all gristle ; add to this double the quantity of lean pork ; chop it all together, but not too fine. Cut into small dice Jib. of fat bacon, which will be more suited for this particular purpose if it has been prepared the night before. Season all these ingredients well with nearly ioz. of salt, ifoz. of black and white pepper, respectively, and a little garlic. Mix all thoroughly together, put into large bladders, tie them up at the ends, hang them up to dry for a few days, tie them round and round with string, smoke them for three or four days, and store them in a dry place for three to 'five months before using them. These two kinds of saucissons are intended to be served raw, and are useful as hors d'ceuvre ; they will, therefore, need152 Dainty Meals for Small Households much more thorough hanging and drying than those which are to be cooked. Russe.—Take some good, firm, lean pork; remove all the gristle, skin, and fat ; mince it very fine. To every 2lb. allow about Jib. of fresh fat pork, ioz. of salt, a large pinch of black pepper, a dozen or more peppercorns, half a dozen blades of mace, and a table- spoonful of caviar. Work these ingredients well with the hand, and moisten with a little brandy ; put the mixture into pigs' bladders, tie them up tightly, and hang them in a cold, airy place to dry. When wanted, boil them in water containing two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of thyme, and a large onion well studded with cloves. The part of pork generally styled "petit sale" in France is a most useful addition to the store cupboard ; it is valuable for cooking with otherwise insipid greens, lentils, beans, &c, during the winter months. It is simply salted without being smoked ; the flat ribs, part of the loin, the feet, the ears, and the tail, are the pieces most generally devoted to this purpose ; the pickling is an operation quite distinct from any other. Boil together say four gallons of water, 41b. of cooking salt, Jib. of coarse salt, and -|lb. of brown sugar; stir frequently ; when the salt has dissolved, let the mixture cool ; add an infusion of aromatic herbs according to taste and pour it over the meat, having previously slightly rubbed the latter with salt. Petit sale is ready for eating after three full days, and should not be kept more than six days. The joints commonly used for roasting may, for a change, be pickled with advantage before being cooked. Put the meat for two or three days in a basin containing oil, salt, pepper, parsley, a couple of bay-leaves, and half a dozen cloves. Roast it in front of the fire, or bake it in the oven and serve with a ravigote sauce. The chops,153 Pork after being neatly trimmed, part of the bone being previously sawn off, &c, can be prepared in the same way before the grilling process or not, as preferred. They may be served with a sauce Robert, and answer the purpose of an entree. This same course is also represented by the ears, tail, tongue, or feet of the animal. Here are some ways of preparing these different items :— Oreilles (Ears).—Scald and trim them neatly, boil them slowly in sufficient water to cover them, and containing lentils or white haricot beans ; if there is any liquor handy in which some pork has already been cooked, it will improve the flavour considerably ; or they can be braised with onions, &c. ; or finally, they may be fried in bread- crumbs and egg, just like calves' ears. In any case they should be served with a puree of either of the two above-mentioned vegetables or a tomato sauce. Queues (Tails).—These should, if possible, be salted for six or seven days, then well drained and stewed in a little water, with onions, carrots, lentils, or haricots, a bouquet, peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and some cloves. Make a puree of whatever vegetable has formed the principal in- gredient, and serve it as a garniture. Pieds (Pigs' Feet) must be thoroughly well scalded, cleaned, and split in two lengthwise. Wrap each piece separately in some butter muslin, put them to boil in a pan with butter, salt, a large bouquet, an onion studded with cloves, a sprig of basil, and a root of garlic. Fix the feet in the pot by pressing into the latter two or three laths crosswise some two inches or so from the bottom. The first water used should be cold. When this has boiled skim it well, put in more water if necessary (this time boiling), put on the cover, and after the necessary skimming has been done let it boil for about four hours. Put aside to cool, undo the muslin, then prepare the154 Dainty Meals for Small Households feet for the entree as desired. The simplest and most delicious recipe consists in dipping them into good Lucca oil, rolling them in breadcrumbs, and frying or grilling with a brisk fire. Sauce tartare, r£moulade, or tomate will do equally well by way of accompaniment. It is only when the feet have been thoroughly carefully prepared as above that subsequent treatment becomes perfectly satisfactory. Cochon de Lait (Sucking Pig).—This is a favourite dish with many people ; it is at its best when from three to about six weeks old, and is served whole. It should be cooked, or prepared for use as soon as killed. Wrap it in a thin butter muslin soaked in vinegar and salt (after pouring a little vinegar into the body); let it hang for thirty-six to forty hours. Remove the muslin, and with a soft cloth wipe the joint dry inside and out. Brush it all over with salad oil, tie the ears up in paper soaked in oil, and roast it in a baking dish containing a little water and an egg- spoonful of salt. Baste it frequently with some oil or fresh butter, to avoid blisters forming on the outer skin. When nearly ready, open the oven door a little to let out the steam, and to allow the joint to colour and dry. Serve very hot, and make an incision in the back of the neck as it goes in to table ; this will let out some of the unnecessary steam which will have been compressed whilst the outer part was browning. A very good and useful breakfast dish is the so-called Fromage d'ltalie. To prepare this, chop together about 2^lb. of equal quantities of calves' and pigs' liver, lib. of bacon, and less than Jib. of good fresh lard ; also some parsley, chervil, chives, onions, thyme, bay-leaf, sage, and a little garlic, salt, and pepper ; all these latter ingre- dients should be pounded separately from the meat, but together in one mortar. Line a mould or a fireproof terrine with strips of bacon, mix the meat with thePork 155 seasoning, and fill the mould with alternate layers of the mixture and thin slices of lean bacon. Cover with bacon rind, bake in the oven for at least three hours ; stand it aside till cold, then turn it out and garnish it suitably with hard-boiled eggs, olives, aspic jelly, parsley, &c. It will keep some time in cold weather, and makes excel- lent sandwiches. To Cure Hams follow these instructions :—Beat with a wooden mallet, rub all over with salt and sugar (in the proportion of one to ten parts), put the ham in a tub, and repeat the rubbing after two days, and again two days later ; on the fifth day, wipe the old salt off both the tub and its contents ; sprinkle a little fresh mixture over the ham, and place it in the tub with a liquor made in the following proportions : Boil together for half an hour three quarts of water, 3|lb. of salt, nearly lib. of sugar, 5oz. of saltpetre, and 2oz. of aromatic herbs, &c. (the latter tied up in a muslin) ; use when cold and after the liquor has been strained. When the ham has been put into this preparation, weight down the lid of the tub, and leave it to soak for fifteen days if small, for twenty if large. Then lay it in fresh water for two hours, brush it with a moderately stiff brush, and hang it in a well- aired room for a fortnight. This drying is essential to the good flavour and proper colouring of the meat. Hams can be kept in a salted state without being smoked at all; in this case, however, it is preferable not to wash them before hanging them up to dry. Naturally, the meat loses some of its good qualities with prolonged immersion, so that it is well to know how far the process is inevitable. As a rule, unless the ham is old, long personal experience has taught me that it is decidedly better to abstain from soaking altogether, but of course it is a matter which every housewife must decide for herself; in any case the ham (or any other156 Dainty Meals for Small Households salt smoked meat) should not be put straight into a tub with the water, but should rest on a frame fixed a few inches from the bottom of the vessel; the advantage of this lies in the fact that the salt moisture that proceeds from the meat sinks to the bottom, whilst the meat remains absolutely free, and does not come into contact with it again. It is practically useless to adopt the almost universal plan adopted by those who have not had much experience in home-curing, as the ham simply lies till saturated with the very substance of which one is trying to rid it. The soaking should not last more than forty-eight hours, which is the time allowed for extreme cases, and the water should be changed three times a day. An excellent way of treating a " new season's " ham is as follows :—Trim it well, pare off any stale or black-looking edges, chop off the end of the bone to improve the shape, and with a piece of string tie the end of the ham near the bone very tightly to prevent it from "gaping," as it is apt to do after boiling. Put into the pan enough water for the ham to be completely immersed, let it boil, put in the ham, and as soon as the water needs skimming add two or three pints of old white wine, one large onion studded with cloves, some carrots, a bouquet of parsley, two bay-leaves, and a few sprigs of thyme. Let all this simmer for about five hours or less, according to the size of the ham ; by pricking it with a fork it is easy to tell whether it is sufficiently tender. So much for the ordinary boiling ; in warm weather, and especially if the ham is to be eaten slowly, and to last over some days, it should at once be taken out of its liquor and allowed to cool ; free from all moisture ; if the tempera- ture is low and the ham is likely to be consumed quickly (for instance, at a large supper party), it is well to put it into a pan with the liquor, and to let it become coldPork 157 while still immersed ; this also helps to keep the meat tender. Jambon Roti (Roast Ham).—Choose a moderate-sized ham, not too large, remove as much of the bone as possible without spoiling the shape of the joint ; peel off the rind and some of the fat, so that only a layer of less than a quarter of an inch remains ; trim the joint, giving it a nicely rounded shape, and soak it for two days in a good pickling mixture ; this should consist of equal parts of red wine and water, of coarse common salt (in the propor- tion of lib. to every three and a half pints of wine and water), a small pinch of saltpetre, and an infusion of sage, rosemary, and lavender. After two days take out the ham, wash it freely in plenty of cold fresh water, dry it, tie it round with large strips of bacon rind, and roast or rather bake it in an oven till tender, basting frequently with old white wine. Set it aside so that the outside may cool sufficiently to be covered with mayonnaise sauce. The inside will, of course, still remain hot. Or the sauce may be sent in separately. Small fresh hams make excellent roast joints. Remove the skin, but leave the fat ; soak it for two or three days in oil, with salt, pepper, a sprig or two of sage, an onion, and a bottle of good white wine. Roast it before the fire if possible, or in a gas oven, basting very frequently with the liquor in which it was pickled. Serve it with a sauce made from equal parts of good gravy and of the basting mixture, with a sprinkling of chopped shallots.CHAPTER XI. POULTRY. We now come to poultry ; the French word " volaille," which is generally taken as being the translation of the English " poultry/' covers, on the other side of the Channel, a very large field. First, there is the white flesh volaille, then the dark flesh birds; and besides this there is yet a subdivision as regards chickens or fowls. To the white flesh section belong chickens, turkeys, and guinea fowls; to the dark, geese, ducks, and pigeons. The subdivision of which I have spoken is determined principally by the manner in which the bird has been reared, for it is entirely on this point that its value depends. The poulet de grain, viz. fed on grain alone, is the most delicate, and is kept exclusively for sautes. The poulet gras (fat) is much larger, has been specially fed to attain excellency, and is always roasted. This, in its best condition, is hardly ever equalled by birds of the corresponding size bought on the London markets ; not that the latter are not so good, as far as their flavour is concerned, but they certainly do not attain the golden tint so peculiar to that kind of bird on the Continent. With the same kind of fowl fattened to a lesser degree, and called mi-gras, are made galantines and all kinds of braised preparations ; and finally the ordinary fowl and cock (independently of age) produce good stock with orPoultry 159 without the help of butcher's meat as the case may require. And now to make a passing but sweeping statement. It is a lazy and extravagant plan to order chickens, &c, to be sent home ready trussed. By doing this the full price is paid to the tradesman, but he forthwith retains practically the most useful parts, viz. the giblets. The most ordinary cook can truss any bird ; if not, she should learn to do so. Only where turkeys and geese are concerned, the tendons of the legs should be removed by the poulterer, as the operation sometimes requires a great deal of strength and some knack which only much experience can impart. Roast chicken is too well known to need describing; it can be done in front of the fire or in the oven, with slices of bacon tied around it, or merely wrapped in a very thin sheet of buttered paper; in either case, however, the covering should be removed about twenty minutes before the chicken is to be dished up, so that this may become a better colour. It may be stuffed or not, according to taste, with sausage meat alone or (when they are in season) with equal quantities of sausage meat and chest- nuts. This mixture should be well seasoned. The most delicious way of preparing chicken whole is undoubtedly to cook it in the casserole, either to be served in the same, or on a dish, as preferred. The bird seems to have much more flavour, and is, of course, more juicy than when roasted ; it is also much more tender and has a better flavour when served up a second time. Put into a suitable utensil a piece of butter about the size of a small egg, then the chicken ; let it slightly colour over the fire, then add salt and pepper, cover, and let the contents cook very slowly for an hour and a half, turning the bird over at half-time. Remove it on to a very hot dish, take off some of the fat from the gravy160 Dainty Meals for Small Households produced in the saucepan, add to it a little strong stock, which shall have been prepared meanwhile, by stewing the giblets, &c. ; let it boil up once, and send it to table. Or: use a regular casserole, put in some good lard, an onion thickly sliced, two or three small ones, some thin strips of bacon, finely sliced carrots, salt, pepper, and, securely tied in a piece of fine muslin, some cloves and a small bunch of parsley. Let these brown over the fire, then put in the fowl tied round with bacon, with some mushrooms and any other desired delicacy, such as truffles, &c. (though these are by no means indispensable). Add a teacupful of stock or water, or, if the occasion warrants, the same quantity of good white wine, put the cover on and set the casserole in a well-heated oven so that the contents may cook evenly and not too fast for about an hour and a half. When sending in to table, remove the muslin bag, and, if necessary, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of good gravy. Poulet a la Diable (Entree).—Split a chicken from the breast to the back without actually cutting it in two ; season rather plentifully with salt and pepper, sprinkle it with good olive oil ; grill it and serve with a sauce poivrade, which must be rather hot with cayenne pepper. A stuffing of chestnuts and sausage meat is a great improvement. Poule ail lliz.—An old fowl will answer the purpose for this dish. Put it into a saucepan, cover it with water, add some carrots, onions, and a bouquet; season well, cover, and let all boil till nearly tender; remove a little of the liquor, add about fib. of well-washed rice, set it over the fire to boil again until the rice has absorbed all the liquor, and is itself done; remove the onions, &c.; serve with the rice all around the fowl. Some people prefer removing the fowl when the rice is161 Poultry nearly done, then, whilst keeping the former hot, season the rice a little more, and add some tomato sauce, or a couple of fresh tomatoes sliced, allowing this to cook for about ten minutes longer. The latter way gives a better flavour to the rice; add a tiny piece of butter just before removing it from the saucepan. Poulet a la Tartare.—This makes a delicious entree. Split open a small chicken as for the poulet a la diable, flatten it out well with a chopper. Put into a saucepan some lard, chopped parsley and chives, a sprig or two of tarragon, salt and pepper. Slightly brown the chicken in this mixture, turning it over to colour on both sides; then take it out, dip it in egg and breadcrumb, grill it rather slowly, and serve with a sauce tartare. Cold remains of chicken are very suitable for ma- yonnaise, garnished with lettuces, &c, either as an entree or a supper dish. They can also be warmed up in various ways. en Fricassee.—Cut the remains into suitable pieces; stew the available bones, carcase, skin, &c, with a little water, some mace, peppercorns, onions, &c.; make some melted butter, stir in the necessary quantity of the stewed liquor to make the sauce, put in the chicken, heat it thoroughly; dish up the chicken, add to the sauce, stirring the while, the yolk of one egg, without letting it boil. Pour over the chicken. Or, after the remains have been cut into even pieces, they may be dipped in a batter, fried, and served with a sprinkling of chopped herbs, previously tossed in butter for a couple of minutes. Frits (Fried).—Clean and cut the chicken in half from head to tail, then each half again into two parts ; salt and pepper them well, and put them in a basin with a little olive oil, a couple of sprigs of parsley, a small onion sliced, shallots, a bay-leaf, and the juice of half a small M162 Dainty Meals for Small Households lemon. Cover and let them stand a few hours, or even over-night, turning them over two or three times in the interval. Half an hour before cooking them, dry the pieces, roll them in flour, and fry a golden brown in hot lard. Serve with a sauce tartare or sauce piquante. The real poulet saute, which is decidedly reckoned a delicacy, is made in this way :—Cut up a young chicken in the most suitable manner ; take off the legs, the wings, the breast in two pieces; cut the best part of the back in two, and so on ; every part can be employed. Put into a saute pan or a frying-pan equal quantities of butter and oil, and heat the admixture thoroughly over the fire ; add the chicken, the best parts in the centre, and the others arranged all round. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, toss over a rather brisk fire without letting the fat actually burn, and see that every piece becomes well cooked ; first turn over the wings ; when these are done it will be time to turn the legs ; meantime put the former aside to keep hot; the other pieces can then soon be turned, and when they are removed the legs will be ready to be taken out ; being the thickest, they, of course, will take longer. Take half the fat in which the chicken has been sauted, put it into a small pan with some chopped shallot, but do not let this colour too much ; add two tumblerfuls of white wine, let it slowly boil till reduced by about one-third ; thicken with a good roux brun; boil; add some chopped mushrooms, after a few minutes put in an eggspoonful of Liebig's Extract or of Maggi essence, and finally sprinkle in some chopped parsley and add a few drops of lemon juice. Put the chicken on a very hot dish arranged in pyramid fashion, pour the sauce over, and send to table at once. Another favourite way of serving poulet saute is this : Cut it up, chopping bones where necessary, to obtain even pieces ; sprinkle with salt and pepper ; put it intoPoultry 163 a saute* pan containing enough oil to cover the bottom entirely, and when this is hot, add the chicken ; let them lie till well coloured, then turn and repeat the process. It can be served plain with a sauce tartare, but is specially recommended with the pale Driessauces. To choose a turkey, feel the horny skin near the foot; if it is soft, and of a greyish-white, the bird will be good and tender; after ten or twelve months the skin becomes scaly and reddish in colour. This bird should be killed at least two days before it is cooked, but its crop should be empty at the time. The best kind of stuffing consists of whole chestnuts, boiled till tender without crumbling, and slightly seasoned to taste, or the chestnuts may be crushed to a paste, well seasoned, and mixed with a little cream or sour milk and the pounded liver, heart, &c. Sausage meat, or a mixture of the same and chestnuts, is also frequently used. In almost all stuffing, mushrooms and, where desired, the delicious but expensive truffle, are naturally to be recommended, but excellent results are obtainable without resorting to such costly in- gredients. In roasting a turkey, whether at the open fire or in the oven, the taste is greatly improved by the addition of slices of bacon, whilst sliced carrots, onions, &c, in the basting material considerably improve the flavour. Turkey can be served in any of the ways given above for chickens. When it is to be eaten cold or served as a supper dish, it is advisable to bone it; this can be done at home, but the poulterer always undertakes the opera- tion for a customer if he be desired to do so. In this case it should be stuffed very carefully and also plenti- fully, so that none of the parts of the bird fall in, other- wise it would look shapeless and unsightly. Truffles generally figure largely in this stuffing, and the result is most excellent.164 Dainty Meals for Small Households A turkey, in fact almost any bird, too old for satis- factory roasting makes a delicious daube prepared as follows :—Lard it well, after rolling the slices used for the purpose in a mixture of pepper and salt, chopped chives, thyme, and parsley ; stuff the bird if desired, tie it round firmly ; line the pan in which it is to be cooked with slices of ham, veal, or simply put in some thick rind of bacon and half a calf's foot; add salt, onions, carrots, bouquet, cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, and a garlic root; moisten with three tumblerfuls of stock, one tablespoonful of brandy, and two small tumblerfuls of white wine; cover very tightly, and let it boil slowly, turning it over once or twice, for four or five hours, according to the size of the bird; it can be served hot with all its gravy strained over it, or cold with the jelly well set. Mince, fricassee, croquettes, &c, can be made from the cold remains. Pigeons are good, en casserole, roasted, grilled, and in pies, both hot and cold. They also adapt themselves beautifully to the recipe given above for grilling birds, split open and served with a sauce tartare. When bread- crumbed before frying, a sauce piquante or a ravigote is very suitable as an accompaniment. Pigeons Farcis (Stuffed).—Chop up the liver and heart of the bird, and even, if convenient, 2oz. or 30Z, of calf's liver. Put this into a small saucepan with a tablespoonful of finely-chopped onions and delicate herbs according to taste (some people like chervil, for instance, whilst others prefer tarragon, and so on) ; toss them in the smallest piece of butter imaginable for two minutes at the most. Put the mixture in a basin, add the crumb of a milk roll previously soaked in milk and strained, plenty of seasoning, a couple of mushrooms finely chopped, or a few drops of essence, and bind with two eggs. Fill the birds with this stuffing, and bake or roast them with or165 Poultry without strips of bacon tied around. These can be served hot or cold. The recipe for ponlets frits answers well with pigeons. They can also be grilled after having been sprinkled with salt, pepper, and dipped in good olive oil. The same recipes apply equally well to ducks. Special vegetables, however, are more particularly adapted to this bird. Olives are a favourite garnish when it is plainly roasted ; potatoes and parsnips en puree are most fre- quently served with it, and, of course, green peas. When used as an entree the puree is generally placed on the same dish around the duck. All dark-fleshed birds and every kind of game are served as a salmis, just as the white-fleshed ones are usually fricassed. The general preparation is the same for all, viz. : Make a rather light roux ; add to this one part of water to two of good stock according to the quantity of salmis that is being pre- pared ; season plentifully with salt, pepper, mace, juniper berries, two or three onions, cloves,• shallots, and a bay- leaf. Let this boil rather freely ; after about twenty minutes add a large tumblerful of good red wine, and draw the saucepan a little aside, letting the contents simmer for another three-quarters of an hour. To this add the remains that have to be served, let them simmer for an hour or so, and serve with fried bread. If it is hare that is being prepared, a little of the blood should have been put aside to thicken the sauce j if it is game, the liver should have been retained, and pounded and stirred into the sauce ten minutes before serving. These apparent trifles can easily be remembered, and they go a long way towards improving the flavour and general delicacy of the dish. Mushrooms or their parings, morel, olives, &c., are very acceptable in such dishes. Or, prepare as above, but add to it all the trimmings you can spare from the bird, &c, under treatment, when166 Dainty Meals for Small Households cutting it up into neat pieces for the stew. Pound these odds and ends in a mortar, season them well, add a few drops of cream, and stir them into the sauce. Goose is delicious either roasted or en daube; it can also be served with advantage, after having appeared at table in either of the former ways, by being grilled and served with any of the following sauces : Robert, ravigote, tartare, and a garnish of small onions, purees of peas, lentils, onions, or parsnips; or, again, it can be eaten cold or (preferably) dipped in oil and breadcrumbs, fried and sent in with a cold mayonnaise. When young and tender the beak and claws are yellow, but this is not always an infallible test; the surest method is to pinch the neck tightly, and the skin will break or bruise at once if the bird is quite young. It is roasted in the usual way, but requires longer than the turkey, for the flesh is much more substantial and heavier of digestion; considering its fatty nature, it is a good thing to put into the baking tin, about three-quarters of an hour before the goose is ready for table, a dozen or more small potatoes (cut out with the scoop); they help to draw away the fat; the door of the oven should be put ajar, or the ventilator opened, as shown in Chap. X., b. Pork, to let out the steam, or form a crisp covering to the skin. Goose dripping is delicious for all kinds of fried sub- stances.CHAPTER XII. a, GAME. b. VENISON. This is a fairly wide subject, and the birds, &c, which can be grouped together under this title have increased in variety of late years, owing to the influx of foreign " subjects " which were formerly not easily obtainable in England. In a measure we are now moderately well supplied with this special article, and Russian game, at any rate, is quite a common thing ; but the variety of imports is still more limited than is the case in Paris, where all sorts of birds and venison, practically unknown here, are to be had in the markets. The French term gibier (game) is perhaps a little con- fusing to some people, in that it has, by extension, come to cover not only all that the English word implies, but also venison. The Germans classify their feathered tribes as "Zahmes mid wildes Geflugel" (tame and wild fowl), and, like the English, call the heavy game by a dis- tinctive term, viz. wildbret. Hitherto the term " Russian game," as used in the London markets, has applied more to birds than to venison generally, although Russian venison proper has been forthcoming in some European markets for the last few years. It would be of great assistance to the house- wife if it were more easily procurable, for in spite of the many excellent things already within our reach, therei68 Dainty Meals for Small Households are two things to be considered,—the increasing desire for variety in food, and the decided inclination towards a higher class of cookery, involving more skill on the part of the cook, and a larger choice of materials. Of course, we all know that with money everything is to be had in London; I am speaking of the advantages to be derived by the housewives of moderate incomes, if some of the delicacies which are now unapproachable were more within their reach. Russia sends us partridges and pheasants, and her gelinottes (hazel hens) are delicious. German grouse are by no means to be despised, and the Scandinavian capercailzie and its varieties are becoming well known ,• one of the most appreciated is the kind called by the French poule de neige. Another bird easily obtainable in France, and coming under the head of game, is the outarde or bustard, which, as far as the writer knows, is not eaten in England. Lievre (Hare).—Soak a small hare for five or six days in enough vinegar to cover it, with salt, pepper, a little garlic, a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, and some onions. When it is to be cooked make a roux with a piece of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour ; to this add half the pickling mixture with some of the clotted blood ; a tumblerful, and even more, of good red wine. Bake in a fireproof dish or stew en casserole. Pour the sauce over the hare. Civet (Jugged Hare) [Country fashion].—Pickle the hare in oil and vinegar, with two or three onions, a bay- leaf, mace, cloves, and peppercorns, from one to four days. Brown in a saucepan some sliced onions,!&c, in lard; add a couple of dessertspoonfuls of flour. To this add gradu- ally some of the liquor from the hare, a tumblerful of red wine, a little stock, and some of the blood. When the sauce has cooked about twenty to thirty minutes,Game 169 add the hare and stew for two hours slowly (in oven or not). Half an hour before serving beat up the liver in a teacupful of the blood and stir it into the stew, with a tablespoonfhl of cream. Perdrix Russes (Russian Partridges).—Truss the birds, put them into a saucepan with butter or good dripping and plentiful seasoning, turn them frequently till well coloured and nearly cooked; add three or four tablespoonfuls of sour cream, and let them simmer till done, basting occasion- ally. Strain all the gravy, cut the birds in quarters, and arrange them in a shallow pie dish. Mix some bechamel with the liquor, and boil down till quite thick; pour it over the birds, sprinkle thickly with bread raspings, and put the dish in the oven to gratiner till slightly brown. Another way : Remove the fillets from two birds, mince and mix them with about 50Z. of raw beef marrow and of bacon respectively, three raw truffles cut small, one shallot, and plenty of seasoning ; stir into this the yolk of one egg, make into rissoles, fry in very hot butter, strain, and serve. Partridges are excellent en daube, and are not often served in this manner in England. They must be larded fairly thickly and soaked for a couple of hours in white wine, with a pinch of salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. After this cook them slowly for about four hours in a utensil just large enough to hold them comfortably ; put in an onion, some carrots, a bunch of parsley tied up with a laurel leaf, and some good gravy ; otherwise the proceeding is exactly similar to all the other casserole recipes already given. A puree of chestnuts, or spinach, or endive is the best accompaniment for the perdrix en daube. aux Choux (with Cabbage).—This is a very favourite Continental dish. Lard the birds as above, put them into a saucepan with a little butter or good170 Dainty Meals for Small Households lard and some slices of ham or bacon. Put the cover on, and leave the pan over the fire until a little gravy has been formed. Meanwhile, put over the fire the necessary quantity of good fresh cabbage with a very little water, a small piece of such bacon as is used for boiling, and a tablespoonful of lard. When the cabbage is nearly tender, strain it, squeeze out all the moisture, and -put it into the gravy produced by the birds, which must be removed and set aside for a little while. After letting the greens simmer for about half an hour, put the birds in, so that they not only lie on the greens, but are also covered by the same; add some pepper and a teacupful of good stock. When this has been absorbed by the contents of the saucepan, dish up and serve very hot. The boiled bacon can be sent in as an accompaniment, if desired. Roties (Roasted).—Prepare as shown below in recipe for roast quails, and treat them in exactly the same way ; but cut them in half and put a slice of bacon between the two halves if they are to be grilled. Young birds are naturally the most suitable for the latter method. Or, let the cut halves stand over-night in a little red wine, some salad oil, onions, and a bay-leaf; roast them and thicken the gravy with a little cream or sour milk. Cailles (Quails), when obtainable, are a favourite dish for the lover of game ; the most uncommon way to pre- pare them is au Madere. After cleaning them, put back the liver and a couple of hard-boiled yolks of egg pounded with some chopped parsley and chives, a tiny piece of butter, and plenty of pepper and salt. Sautez them in a pan with a little butter, season to taste, and cover. When the birds are well coloured add equal quantities of white wine and water or stock, just barely enough to cover, thicken with some dark roux, and add half an eggspoonful of Liebig's extract. As soon as the birdsGame 171 are done put them on a warm dish and stand it in a hot place; meantime reduce the sauce, stir in a glassful of Madeira, and pour it, boiling, over the birds. To roast quails, pepper and salt them inside and out; tuck a small slice of bacon under the legs and wings; tie the birds up separately in vine-leaves, or thin buttered paper; string them on a skewer and roast before the open fire—or grill them, or put them on a rack in a baking tin with fat, good gravy, a few slices of bacon, and a pinch of salt. Serve very hot. An excellent chaud-froid can be made, too, but for this it is usual to bone the birds and to stuff them; the latter process is almost entirely a matter of taste. The stuffing can be composed of almost anything—as, for instance, cold remains of chicken, a little liver, a couple of hard-boiled yolks of egg, chopped mushrooms, some roll-crumb previously soaked in milk and squeezed free from moisture, chopped herbs and onions, and plenty of seasoning. The birds, being carefully filled so as to keep in good shape, can then be wrapped in pieces of fine butter muslin; put them into a sautoir, and poach or stew them slowly in equal parts of Madeira wine and game stock, made, of course, beforehand with the bones, &c, of game. When done remove the muslin, and stand them aside to get cold. Then arrange them on a dish and cover them with jelly, being careful to fill up the gaps between the birds with the same sub- stance. Afterwards cover them with a dark chaud-froid sauce made thus:—Put into a saucepan about an ordinary tumblerful of Madeira, and the same quantity of game stock; let it reduce over the fire to about one-third of the original quantity; add to this about a pint of sauce in a half glaze, and reduce all over a brisk fire, so that it may thicken considerably. After this add gradually small lumps of meat jelly, stirring over the fire fairly172 Dainty Meals for Small Households steadily, and still allowing the sauce to reduce. Season with salt and a pinch of cayenne, and strain through the tammy. Stand the basin containing the sauce over ice, and stir it till it becomes of sufficient consistency to cover the birds without running off. Then serve with some well-made and uncommon salad. This makes a delightful supper dish. Faisan Farci (Stuffed Pheasant).—For the stuffing, either a partridge or simply a pigeon may be used; the latter produces equally delicious results. Bone the bird entirely, remove the skin, and chop up all the flesh; add plenty of seasoning, one large truffle sliced, if possible, mushrooms, a little butter, a sprig of chopped parsley, and the yolk of an egg; stir these ingredients well together, and, finally, put in a tablespoonful of good fresh cream, or thick sour milk. Meantime, have ready the pheasant well plucked, singed, &c, and fill it with the mixture. Sew down the skin, and let the bird stand for twenty-four hours in a cool place. When ready for roasting, tie round the bird some very thin slices of bacon; wrap it in well buttered paper, and roast from forty-five to fifty minutes. Remove the paper and bacon five or ten minutes before taking the pheasant out of the oven, or off the jack, Serve with a truffle or mushroom sauce, or, if preferred, a sauce ravigote. b. Venison. Now we have to deal with venison proper, which like game is now imported from various parts of the world. The North of Germany yields wild boar and abounds in deer and roebuck, which figure in German culinary works and menus as reh and hirsch (French daitn and chevreuil). From Russia we can have reindeer. Elk or moose is even to be had in Paris, but it has not yet reached these shores.Venison i73 The subject of Venison is one which requires thought and care, whether it be purchased in single joints, or whether it has to undergo home treatment from the time the animal has been shot, as is often the case in places where venison abounds. Without taking into consideration the fact that some people like it very " high," the general condition should be a happy medium to suit all tastes. To attain this object, it should not be too fresh, for it would then be tough and insipid, nor must it be hung too long ; it must be kept in a cool place, where there is a certain amount of air ; the joints must, moreover, never be soaked, or even dipped, in water to free them from blood, &c., but merely washed with a cloth wrung out of lukewarm water, changing the water once or twice, if necessary, till the meat is quite ready to use. After that the meat should be dried with another cloth. Where the whole animal is available, it must be hung up as soon as possible after having been killed, then skinned, drawn, and cleaned as above. If it is judged necessary to delay the too rapid seasoning of the animal, the best thing to do is to sprinkle it with powdered charcoal, which will not in any way interfere with either taste or flavour ; or some parts might with advantage be cut off, carefully boned, and preserved for a considerable time as follows : — After the removal of the bones and a cleansing of each separate joint, which should be carefully cut to the size most convenient for subsequent use, pack them tightly in a large jar, stew in with them some crushed bay- leaves, peppercorns, and pounded mace; cover the whole with good beef suet or mutton fat, melted over the fire and poured in when lukewarm; when the fat has set, tie a muslin over the top, and store in a cold place. Separate joints can also be preserved by merely brushing them all over quickly with lukewarm fat;174 Dainty Meals for Small Households when this is cold, tie the meat up in buttered muslin so as to keep off flies and dust. The joint treated in this manner must hang till it is wanted, and not be kept with fresh provisions ; but this method rather weakens the peculiar flavour, which is one of the characteristics of good game. A favourite way of cooking the haunch of venison, especially of the roe, is this :—Either hang it up for a few days, or take it down after about twenty, four hours, and soak it in sour milk for a couple of days in a cool place ; take it out, dry oflf all the moisture, remove the skin, lard it plentifully, salt it, and bake it in a fireproof dish in a good oven, basting it with butter or very fresh lard, and pouring a little white or red wine over it occasionally, not more than a couple of table- spoonfuls twice or three times during the cooking process ; when the meat is done and of a rich brown, put it on a hot dish, pour a teacupful of sour cream over the meat, and set it in a hot place while the sauce is being made ; strain the liquor in which the venison has been baked, put it over the fire in a small saucepan, let it gently boil to reduce it, season it to taste, add a few chopped mushrooms previously slightly browned in butter, finish off with a tablespoonful of fresh cream ; let it boil up once more, pour it over the joint, and serve very hot with a compote of fresh fruit and green salad. Another satisfactory recipe is the following:—Wash and trim the meat; dry it : cut into suitable pieces or leave it whole, and soak it five or six hours in oil, red wine or vinegar, with a bay-leaf, peppercorns, onions, sliced cloves, and salt. Lard it, have ready in a saucepan some hot butter and flour, put in the venison with a little of the pickling mixture and all the accompaniments. Cover and let simmer ; skim if necessary ; when the liquor is reduced add some chips of bacon, a little175 Venison stock, some red wine, and let it stew until tender. When done, strain the sauce, thicken, and add a little cream at the last minute ; serve very hot with fried sippets. Daim or ChevreuU (Reh or Hirschbraten).— The joint having been slightly rinsed, must be well dried, and plentifully and closely larded. The Germans bake it in the oven, although it can, of course, be done before the fire, with a great deal of basting. This is the German method :—Have ready an earthenware baking dish, lay slices of bacon all over the bottom, on this lay the meat ; bake it in the oven till the lard assumes a golden-brown, but baste it frequently with dripping. When it has browned a little, add some cream, and put some small dice of butter all over the joint; let it bake till tender ; it will take from an hour to an hour and a half to do thoroughly. Currant jelly or other fruit sauces are usually served with venison. Almost any piece of venison may with advantage be prepared as follows :—Cut the fillets or other fleshy parts of the meat from the bone, trim them neatly, put them into an earthen vessel, and just cover with a cold marinade, made of vinegar, water, and aromatic herbs, all boiled together with plenty of seasoning. Let this stand for four days, strain, lard the pieces of meat closely, and bake or roast, basting frequently. Serve with a sauce poivrade made thus :—Chop finely one large onion and four shallots, put them into a saucepan with a couple of slices of raw ham, a small crust rubbed with garlic, a handful of mushroom parings, some peppercorns, a bay- leaf, thyme, mace, and a little butter ; brown this for eight or nine minutes in butter over the fire, add a claret-glassful of white wine vinegar, boil till reduced to half; then put in a little more than half a pint of espagnole. Draw the saucepan off the fire so that the176 Dainty Meals for Small Households boiling only continues on one side. After a quarter of an hour remove the fat, add a pinch of cayenne, and serve hot. Delicious entrees can be made with fillets and cutlets of roebuck : the former are generally cut out of the loin, and the latter from the neck ; they should be neatly trimmed. The best way to cook them is to put them in a well-buttered saute pan, cover them with strips of bacon, add some truffle or mushroom parings; lay a sheet of buttered paper over them, and let them stew slowly till tender. They can be served with all kinds of garnishes : olives, chestnut puree, Madeira, mushroom, or cream sauce. Red Deer (Roasted).—Rub the haunch well with salt, pepper, and mixed spices ; soak it for six hours in some claret and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar; turn it over frequently, and baste it as well ; strain off the pickling liquor, when done with add to it some fresh butter slightly melted, and with this baste the haunch the whole time it is roasting in the usual fashion ; a large piece of buttered paper should be put round the joint during the latter part of the time it is hanging before the fire. To make the sauce, take the contents of the dripping pan, add to this half a pint of clear gravy, boil them over the fire, skim, add a teaspoonful of catsup, and serve very hot. Sanglier (Wild Boar) [German Recipe].—Take a piece of the leg, detach it from the bone, rub it with salt, and soak it in about a pint and a half of marinade or pickling mixture, made with vinegar, water, and aromatic herbs, all boiled together, with plenty of peppercorns and seasoning. It must be poured over while still lukewarm. Let it stand well covered for about three days, strain, put the meat into a baking dish, with some lard, cover it with butteredVenison 177 paper, and let it bake in a good oven for three-quarters of an hour, basting very frequently ; add a few table- spoonfuls of the strained pickling liquor, bake half an hour more, put the meat on to a hot dish, cover it with a thick layer of brown breadcrumbs (in Germany they use the almost black Pumpernickel), grated, dried, pounded, and sifted, mixed with a pinch of cinnamon and sugar, and moistened with enough red wine to make it adhere to the joint ; over this sift another layer of dry crumbs ; put the meat back into the baking dish, baste it well with the liquor it contains, and stand it just inside the oven (without quite closing the door) for about half an hour more. Send it to table with a cherry sauce, made as follows:—Soak two handfuls of black dried cherries, pound them, stones and all, and mix them with a tumblerful of red wine ; put this over a fire in a pipkin, with a little cinnamon, salt, two or three cloves, and the grated rind of a quarter of a small lemon ; let it boil for two minutes, thicken it with some fecula dissolved in a little water, cover it up, draw it aside, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, then strain and serve. The boar's leg can also be done in this way, without remov- ing the bone, except by cutting it off at the knuckle, or it can be removed and replaced by suitable stuffing. Finally, it must be remembered that all kinds of delicious entrees can be made with fillets and cutlets of roebuck, the former being taken from the loin, the latter from the neck ; trim them neatly, put them into a saute pan, cover them with strips of bacon, add some truffles or mushrooms chopped, lay some buttered paper over them, and let them stew till tender. They can be served with a variety of garnishes, olives, chestnut puree, spinach, Madeira wine, mushroom cream sauce, straw- berry, cranberry, or red currant sauce. NCHAPTER XIII. a. VEGETABLES. b. SALADS. Vegetables next claim our attention, and form a most important subject—important because so few cooks know how to make a delicious dish with a so-called common vegetable. Where asparagus, mushrooms, seakale, arti- chokes, and such better kinds of things are concerned, the usual first-class recipes are well carried out, and there is no cause for complaint; but once we come to the lowly family of greens, in all their variety, the " vulgar " onion, the leek, and the ordinary field supplies (and these are by no means paltry), then the result is monotonous in the extreme, and also frequently objectionable. Every good work on culinary matters will provide recipes for the articles mentioned in my former list, and on those I will therefore touch but briefly, to suggest some of the more uncommon ways of sending them to table; but the latter list is often treated but scantily, whilst the excellent vegetables which grow wild are often absolutely ignored. The commonest of all is the dandelion, with which we may mention chicory or wild endive. The young leaves of these plants are suitable for salads from April or May to July, whilst for cooking they can be used even later in the year. To serve either of these as a vegetable, prepare it thus:—Vegetables 179 Cut off the coarse ends of the leaves, choosing the tender ones; wash well, throw them into boiling water duly salted, and let them simmer for half an hour. Take the greens out with a strainer, put them into cold water, squeeze them in the hands so as to get rid of the moisture, put them on the board, and chop them fine. Stir in a saucepan a lump of butter or good lard and a dessertspoonful of flour, add plenty of salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of good meat gravy; put in the greens, and turn them about till quite hot with a wooden spoon. Just before dishing up you can put in a table- spoonful of cream or not, as the occasion warrants, and garnish with crisp fried sippets. The dandelion has a strong fleshy root, which makes a palatable dish resem- bling salsify. The roots are at their best towards the end of June and on to October. Make a roux blond, add some good stock, small onions, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. When this has simmered put in the roots (previously scraped and boiled in salt and water), and serve them after cooking them for fifteen or twenty minutes. Or try them as an entree thus :— Scrape and boil them in water with a little vinegar to taste; when tender, but still firm, lay them on a cloth to dry; trim them, and dip two or three pieces at a time in a batter; fry, and serve them sprinkled with very finely- chopped chervil, and garnish with sliced lemons. Or again: Prepare them as above, using milk instead of water; let the moisture drain off; put the roots into a small well buttered and breadcrumbed fireproof dish, alternate each layer with a mixture of breadcrumbs and finely chopped herbs previously slightly tossed in a little butter over the fire; let the top layer of these be rather thick; add a sprinkling of Parmesan, some cayenne pepper, and a little piece of butter, and gratinez in the oven till a good colour. Serve very hot. If cooked ini8o Dainty Meals for Small Households this way, they can also be served as a savoury on fried toast. Other plants such as the rocket, rampion (cornsalad or lamb's lettuce), together with the common nettle, can be used with great advantage, cooked in the same way as the dandelion leaves or like spinach, with or without an accompaniment of poached eggs. Good King Henry {Chemopodium bonus Henricus) is in season in June and July, the leaves being used as spinach, and the stalks like asparagus, with melted butter or with a salad dressing. Hop tops are tender till the end of July, and sorrel till the end of August. The latter is best when gathered in meadows and moist places, and the broad-leaved or Roman sorrel is most delicious; it serves as an accompaniment to certain dishes more than to others, of course—for instance, it goes well with tongue, liver, or cutlets of lamb or veal. Of the above, the rampion, the lamb's lettuce, and the young dandelion are the most desirable for salads; they should be well flavoured, a little more strongly than the ordinary lettuce—for instance with basil, tarragon, &c, a few filleted anchovies cut in small pieces, &c. It is, perhaps, superfluous to remind those happy people who live in the country, and can procure these plants, that they should be picked either before sunrise or after sunset. If gathered in the daytime, with the sun full on them, they quickly become stale, and lose the peculiarly fresh taste which constitutes their principal charm. Cabbages, turnip tops, &c, should be cooked according to the same recipe (see dandelions), and, when well strained from all the liquor, chopped finely and well flavoured before heating them up again, with butter, gravy, or cream, are nothing less than delicious. If bacon, pickled pork, &c, are being boiled on the sameVegetables 181 day, it is a good plan to give the greens their first boil in the same vessel; it greatly improves their flavour. Chou Rouge (Red Cabbage) belongs essentially to mid- winter fare, and is perhaps too full flavoured to appeal to everybody; it is good, nevertheless, and especially so as an accompaniment to partridges. Choose a firm cabbage, remove the thick end and the outside leaves, hold it firmly on a board, and slice it very fine with a large sharp knife. Put into a suitable saucepan some stock, a little butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the cabbage. Cover, and let the contents simmer and boil rather slowly till they are tender and the liquor much reduced. A few minutes before turning the cabbage out add a little red wine, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. When the wine has been absorbed, serve with game. Or, slice the cabbage as before, scald it with absolutely boiling water for about ten minutes, and let it drain. Melt in a saucepan over the fire some bacon cut in dice, with a small piece of butter, put in the cabbage, cover, and after a few minutes stir in the cabbage. Let this simmer for a while, and moisten with white wine and some good meat gravy. After this the simmering must be very slow to allow the vegetable to become tender without having to add more than a few drops of either of the latter ingredients. Season and serve. Leeks are very useful, except in the months of March and April, when they are rather bitter and unpleasant to the taste ; prepared according to the following recipes they will be found excellent eating. Poireaux (Leeks) au Gratin.—Parboil the tenderest part of the vegetable, after which carefully press out all the moisture; put into a gratin dish a little butter, a layer of breadcrumbs, and a slight sprinkling of grated Parmesan ; if this cheese is objected to, any other kind will do,182 Dainty Meals for Small Households especially Gruyere. Over this arrange the leeks with alternate layers of breadcrumbs and cheese till the dish is full; cover them in the same way, and over the top pour a few tablespoonfuls of thick cream or of good strong meat gravy a few moments before the dish is ready. Serve very hot. Farcis (Stuffed).—Parboil as before, cut them open on one side only—that is to say, without actually dividing them; scoop out some of the inside, fill this space with any kind of stuffing made from the cold remains of meat or poultry, mixed, as usual, with chopped herbs, onions, breadcrumbs, &c, and thickened with the yolk of an egg. Arrange this neatly in each leek, and tie it round with thread to keep it in shape. Cut and trim them at the top to fit the frying-pan, and fry them a golden brown. They can also be served in the same way only baked au gratin instead of fried. au Jus (Stewed).—Parboil as before, cut them into suitable pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little hot butter or good lard, and plenty of seasoning; after the fat has been absorbed, add some good meat gravy, or some milk, or, better still, a few tablespoonfuls of cream. Serve when quite tender, and when the moisture is absorbed, either with a brown gravy or with melted butter. Marrows.—These are very good to experiment upon, as they can be subjected to a variety of processes. Moelles a la Creme (with Cream).—Peel the vegetable and cut in suitable pieces ; parboil them and drain off the moisture carefully. Meantime prepare the following sauce :—Melt in a stewpan about 30Z. of butter, in this dissolve two tablespoonfuls of flour, add a pinch of grated nutmeg, some salt and white pepper; into this stir gradually the necessary quantity of milk or cream to make as much sauce as will be wanted; let it boil gently till it thickens, stirring all the time; put in the marrow183 Vegetables and let it heat thoroughly in the sauce without boiling. Serve with fried sippets or not. Farcies (Stuffed).—Chop up some raw meat with a little fat, onions, and parsley; add some parboiled rice, well washed and plentifully seasoned. Soften the marrow by rolling it on the table with the hand evenly and gently. Cut off the ends and scoop out the inside with a spoon ; toss the meat mixture for a few minutes only in a saucepan with a litle hot butter ; with this fill the marrow, tie down the top slice, put it into a fireproof dish with some butter, and bake it in the oven till tender. Or serve it au gratin: Cut the marrow in half lengthwise, then into suitable pieces ; scoop out the inside, and fill the space with the same mixture as above. Butter a gratin dish, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, arrange the stuffed marrow over the dish, moisten with good brown meat gravy, cover with breadcrumbs and cheese, add two or three small pieces of butter, and gratinez till a good colour. Laitues (Lettuces).—Choose them very fresh and firm ; remove the coarsest leaves, wash and scald them for ten minutes in boiling water ; and now place them on a board to cool, or dip them in cold water (the latter mode is preferable); press out all the moisture, wipe them with a clean cloth, make a slit in the side of each, insert some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and tie the lettuces round with string to keep them in good shape. Have ready a sufficiently large stewpan well lined with strips of bacon, carrots, onions sliced, and a small bouquet; lay the lettuces in side by side, making them fit rather tightly ; cover them with bacon, and moisten them with good gravy, let them stew slowly for at least two hours ; dish them up, strain, and then thicken the liquor which remains in the pan ; pour it over and serve very hot. This, when well prepared, is one of the most184 Dainty Meals for Small Households delicious and delicate tasting vegetables. The great mis- take lies in not cooking lettuces slowly or long enough ; on account of the fresh appearance it is generally supposed that very little boiling will suffice to make them tender. Lettuces are very good stuffed, but for this purpose they must be large and very firm ; hold the lettuce tightly to keep it well together, and scoop out the heart very carefully with a sharp knife, without, however, cutting through the leaves ; have ready a good meat farce made from any cold remains, fowl or veal being the best for the purpose ; stir this with the yolk of an egg, press the mixture into the empty space, tie the lettuces up firmly, and cook them as above ; then finish them off in the frying-pan, slightly browning them ; or, again, do them in a gratin dish as shown for the marrows ; the latter is by far the best way. They can also be served with good meat gravy. When stuffed as above, the lettuces should previously be scalded over the fire in boiling water for about fifteen minutes. Or, boil in a little water half a dozen lettuces for three minutes, take them out, drain them carefully, put into a stewpan some bacon rind and a small lump of butter, sprinkle the lettuces with salt, pepper, and a little flour, and lay them in the pan ; put the cover on and let them simmer from three to four hours very gently ; turn the contents over once during this interval ; have ready some peas ready boiled till tender, put them into a hot vegetable dish, cut up the lettuces and pour them on to the peas, liquor and all, except the bacon rind. This is a very favourite dish abroad. Braisees (Braised).—Scald, and then braise the lettuces ; chop up a large onion, put it into the saucepan with a lump of butter and about half a pound of smoked pork cut in dice ; brown this slightly over a moderate fire, add a pint measure of green peas, a small onion studdedVegetables 185 with cloves, and a bunch of parsley, a pinch of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. When the peas are done, take them out and put them in a warm place with the lettuces ; add to the liquor a few tablespoonfuls of meat stock or gravy, thicken with some butter worked with a little flour, stir this over the fire till it boils, arrange the lettuces and peas on a dish, glaze them over, pour the sauce over them, and serve with fried sippets. In cooking spinach the average plain cook very often fails to produce a dainty dish ; yet nothing is simpler. The first desideratum is one which has many a time been urged in these pages—namely, boiling it without water ; and strangely enough there are still persons who exclaim at the idea, while many good cooks absolutely refuse to follow the advice ; yet let the incredulous try, though the timid may be permitted to put in a tablespoonful of water to relieve their minds, but not more, for even that, I repeat, is totally unnecessary. The preliminary opera- tion is always the same, and consists in boiling the greens until tender in the liquor which they immediately pro- duce ; turn them out into a colander till wanted, then squeeze them in handfuls to remove as much of the moisture as possible, and chop the resulting mass quite fine on a board ; season to taste, and put it into a suitable saucepan over the fire, with a small piece of butter, and a tablespoonful of good meat gravy or cream, as desired ; stir till quite hot, and serve without delay. This is the simplest form in which it should be sent to table. The average cook leaves it much too wet, does not chop it fine enough, and does not finish it off sufficiently carefully to make it enjoyable. Spinach should always be slightly sprinkled with salt when put into the saucepan to boil, and it is almost needless to say that it must have been previously carefully picked and washed in several changes186 Dainty Meals for Small Households of water ; it can then be put straight into the saucepan, into which it will naturally convey much of the water in which it has been washed. Another way is this : After chopping it as above, press it through a sieve with the help of a wooden spoon ; put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste ; stir over a brisk fire to reduce the moisture, after which add a tablespoonful of well-dried and sifted flour, with double the quantity of good meat gravy, and serve with fried bread cut in fancy shapes. Cream can be substi- tuted for the gravy, as stated above. To serve it au veloute, proceed as above, adding a few tablespoonfuls of good white sauce in place of cream and flour, or gravy. Or, after boiling and chopping it only, brown some finely chopped onions in a little butter, cook the spinach in this, dish it up, and just before serving cover it with a sprinkling of finely grated roll, previously dried (like pulled bread) and slightly tossed in hot butter. Epinards au Four (Baked) [A Swiss dish, to be served alone].—Cook it as first mentioned, putting a little stock in the saucepan, and after chopping it mix it with a milk roll previously soaked in milk (or several as the case may be), two whole eggs, and the yolks of three or four, salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir all this over the fire until the mixture is thick and very hot ; butter a fireproof dish (one that can be sent to table), sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, and fill it with the spinach after it has cooled and been beaten up with the well-whisked whites of three or four eggs. Bake this for three-quarters of an hour, and serve with good gravy or a sauce mousseline. (Bissoles).—Wash the vegetable thoroughly, boil it in a large saucepan with a small tumblerful of cold water (or not) and a pinch of salt ; drain and squeezeVegetables 187 out all the moisture, pound in a mortar with a little butter, some sugar, two macaroons, two bitter almonds, and a drop or two of orange or other flavouring essence. When this is all reduced to a paste make some thin pastry, cut it into rounds with a tumbler, and on each put a small quantity of the spinach mixture ; fold the pastry over, turn it up at the edges, and either fry in good hot fat, or brush them over with yolk of egg and bake in the oven. The plants which can do duty for spinach when this is unobtainable, and which can most advantageously be prepared according to the same recipes, are watercress and beetroot leaves, also the tenderest tops of the short or broad bean plant. Haricots Verts (Beans).—These should be well stringed and scalded in boiling water containing a little salt before they are cooked according to any particular recipe. For this there should be a plentiful quantity of really boiling water in a large pan, which need not be covered. As soon as the beans are put in they must be carefully kept under water by pressing them down with a large strainer slice. As soon as they show signs of becoming tender they can be put into a colander to strain off the water, and then immediately transferred to the saucepan or stewpan in which they are to be cooked. Most green vegetables are best treated in this preliminary manner, and they may generally be allowed to cool before being used any further. This last precaution is, however, unnecessary where beans are concerned. There are not many ways in which to cook the latter ; the great object is to make them tasty and enjoyable. If they are very young and small, try this recipe :— After the preliminary scalding or parboiling, put into a suitable saucepan a little piece of butter with a sprig of finely-chopped parsley; when the butter is quite hot,188 Dainty Meals for Small Households add the beans, stir them well so that the butter may get at them all, sprinkle them freely with good flour, moisten with stock, and season to taste with pepper and salt. When the beans are quite tender, thicken the liquor in which they have cooked (after putting the beans into a hot dish) with the yolk of one egg, and at the last moment add two or three drops of vinegar ; pour this over the vegetable, and serve very hot. Or, shred the beans if they are at all large, and have ready in a saucepan a chopped onion, some chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of dry sifted flour, a couple of tablespoon- fuls of good stock, and the same quantity of bacon cut in small dice; when the butter is hot and the other ingredients have begun to colour, put in the beans and stir them gently so as not to break them. When quite done, serve very hot. Onions are a host in themselves. They are obtainable at times when other vegetables are scarce, and season- able, more or less, all the year round, to say nothing of the fact that a great variety of recipes can be applied to them. The small button onions, in their fresh condition, are the best for serving with a cream sauce or a sauce poulette. These should be boiled in salted water with a sprig of tarragon, some peppercorns, and a couple of cloves; the process should be very slow. When they are tender slightly colour them, after draining off all the moisture, by tossing them in a small quantity of hot butter. If they are to be sent in without sauce, they should be really almost browned as if they had been fried, and sprinkled with about a teaspoonful of very finely-chopped parsley before going to table ; if not, they should be covered with a sauce poulette. Oignons Nature (Stewed Onions).—For this again the small ones are best; peel them carefully and put them into a saucepan with a little butter and a pinch of castor sugar ;Vegetables cover, and let them stew until they show signs of colouring. Cover them either with good gravy or with an eggspoon- ful of Liebig's extract of meat dissolved in very little water, and an equal quantity of red wine (in either case it is advisable to add a couple of tablespoonfuls of the latter) ; put in a bouquet garni, season, cover, and let the contents simmer slowly over a slack fire until quite tender ; take the onions out carefully, put them into a hot vegetable dish, remove the bouquet, add a pinch of cayenne, and thicken the sauce with a small lump of butter worked with some flour. When quite smooth, pour over the onions and garnish with fried bread. (En Puree).—The puree can be used merely as a garnish, or can be served separately, especially with roast veal, pork, or any kind of white meat. Boil some moderately large onions (putting them into boiling water at first) ; when they are done, drain off the water, pass them through a sieve, have ready a small piece of butter made hot in a suitable pan, put in the puree, season to taste, stir in a teaspoonful of flour and two of good meat gravy, or good strong stock, and stir till quite hot and smooth. The mixture should not be too moist. Of course there is no need to give instructions for baking this vegetable ; the operation is simple, but the result is delicious, provided plenty of time be allowed for the operation. Onions can also be filled with any kind of cold remains of meat, game, or poultry, but the stuffing should be particularly well seasoned. Thus prepared, they can either be sent in well baked and browned, or au gratin, with a sprinkling of breadcrumbs, Parmesan cheese, and butter. Garottes (Garrots).—The small kind so extensively used abroad make delicious dishes; scrape and cut them into small dice (for larger ones use a tiny scoop), and then toss them in hot butter, or good190 Dainty Meals for Small Households clarified dripping. They should be quite covered by the hot fat ; sprinkle them well with flour, turning them at the same time, so that they are all affected by this last ingredient, and draw aside to prevent their browning ; after cooking a few moments, add two tablespoonfuls of good stock, salt, and pepper, and let them simmer slowly for about half an hour. A few minutes before serving add a couple of tablespoonfuls of fresh or sour cream, or thicken with the yolk of an egg. (Sautees).—Boil some small carrots till tender in some stock, then sautez them in hot butter, season, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Older carrots can also be prepared in a way to make them quite as palatable as the younger vegetable. Cook them in the stock pot, and when quite tender cut them in thin slices, and fry or sautez them ; or make a white sauce with a little broth, butter, flour, seasoning to taste, and a tiny pinch of castor sugar. They are also very good if they have been previously boiled with a piece of bacon or pickled pork. The same kind of recipes can be applied to young turnips and parsnips, but these are generally preferred en puree, which is done in the usual manner. Choufleur (Cauliflower).—To serve these in the plainest manner, trim the leaves off, be careful to break none of the sprigs, rinse in fresh water, and cook till tender, putting them straight into boiling water, and plenty of it. Serve with plain hot butter, or with oil and vinegar ; or, again, with a white sauce. Or, after having boiled it, cut it in half, and put it into a shallow pan, season, and cover with good meat gravy. Serve when quite hot. Or, boil as before, being careful not to let it break, strain, pick the sprigs off, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and a few drops of vinegar. Dip each sprig in a light batter (seeVegetables Chap. XIV., p. 212), and fry in a basket in plenty of boiling fat. If these fritters are sprinkled with chopped fines herbes, carefully piled up in a suitable dish, garnished with parsley, and served as hot and crisp as possible, they make a most sightly and acceptable dish. Finally, try this method :—Boil the cauliflower until three parts cooked ; butter a baking dish, that can be sent to table, sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, and fill with alternate layers of cauliflower and Parmesan cheese; season between the layers with salt and plenty of pepper, pour a few tablespoonfuls of cream over the whole, and either cover with cheese and breadcrumbs, or with a layer of light puff paste. Whichever way one chooses the result is excellent. Salsify is a most useful vegetable when winter is upon us, and if carefully cooked it is as tender and delectable as asparagus. Choose it not too large, and as firm as possible ; cut off the stalk about half an inch down the root, and scrape the latter well without breaking it; soak it at once in milk and water, after which cook according to any given recipe. au Bouillon (with Stock).—Boil the salsify pre- pared as above, till tender ; meanwhile make ready a sauce with the needful quantity of good stock, butter, flour, and seasoning to taste ; when this has properly thickened, strain the salsify, and let it boil in this sauce ; serve with or without a sprinkling of finely-chopped parsley. au Roux (Stewed).—Make a good roux blanc ; to this add some finely-chopped onions, a teacupful of good stock, and about a tablespoonful of white wine vinegar ; let the salsify, previously treated as above, boil in this sauce for about fifteen minutes, and serve. au Jus (in Gravy).—Boil it in good white stock and put it to drain ; sautez it in butter, adding salt andigz Dainty Meals for Small Households pepper the while. Send it to table with some good, strong meat gravy poured over it at the last minute. Cardoons, branch celery, and sea-kale can be prepared in the same fashion; or they can also all be served with plain melted butter. When salsify has been left over from the preceding day it can be dipped in a light batter and fried, or put into a buttered gratin dish well sprinkled with grated cheese and breadcrumbs and baked in the oven until a golden brown ; if vinegar is put into the water after it has been scraped, it will answer the purpose of keeping it a good colour as well as the milk suggested above. It should be put into the water when it is boiling, with a little salt and a tablespoonful of flour. Tomates (Tomatoes).—The simplest way of cooking these is to choose them, as far as possible, of moderate and equal size ; cut out the hard part at the root of the stalk, place them side by side in a buttered gratin, or ordinary baking dish, putting in the opening left by the above-mentioned incision a pinch of salt, pepper, and a tiny piece of butter ; bake in the oven until tender, and serve in the same dish. ail Gratin.—Split them in two, cutting them straight down the centre ; squeeze these halves gently in the hand, to express as much of the juice as possible, without, however, breaking the skin ; put them into shape again, and arrange them in a buttered gratin dish, opening upwards. Meantime prepare any kind of stuffing; for instance, toss in a little butter, over the fire, with some chopped shallots and onions ; add to these some chopped mushrooms and tiny dice of bacon ; season with salt, pepper, and cayenne ; stir all this over the fire ; when the moisture is reduced, sprinkle in some finely- chopped herbs, a little stock, or a quarter of a tea- spoonful of Maggi's essence; thicken with the yolks ofVegetables 193 one or two eggs, according to the amount required ; fill the tomatoes with this, put a tiny piece of butter over the top of each, and gratinez in the oven without hurrying. Concombres (Cucumbers).—These should be prepared in the same way as vegetable marrows, either with melted butter or stuffed ; they can also be parboiled, drained, and gratine'd. The taste for the Aubergme or egg-plant has yet to be acquired in England, where it is not generally found at the average dinner table ; but it is a wholesome and delicious vegetable. The most favourite manner of serving it is au gratin ; it is cut lengthwise, arranged as explained for the tomatoes, and stuffed with a Duxelle, or any kind of impromptu " farce," in the style of the above. For making a Duxelle a la minute, as it were, the Dries- sauces are most convenient and satisfactory for general use. Beetroots, which are mostly used in salads in this country, afford a good vegetable when there is little else to fall back upon. Baked in the oven for several hours, peeled, and eaten with fresh butter, after the fashion of potatoes served in their "jackets," they are decidedly appetizing ; also boiled, and served with a melted butter sauce. Finally, they are much appreciated by some people when accompanied by a good sauce piquante. Although the English markets do not offer the many varieties of peas to which one is accustomed in Continental towns, there are many delicious ways of preparing them. A propos of the different kinds of peas, I am reminded that the foreign correspondent of a certain newspaper, mentioning some menu, seemed astonished at the fact that somewhere " peas had been served in their pods, swimming in gravy "; this is very likely, in fact the pois gourmands are a great luxury and very plentiful on the Continent, but there is nothing about them to call for o194 Dainty Meals for Small Households the italics with which this particular course was re- corded. The pois gourmands are a rich, luscious kind of pea, growing in rather flat, broad pods, which are particularly tender ; they are prepared as follows :—Parboil them in a little water and salt, and when nearly tender put them, after draining them, into a small saucepan with a piece of butter, some very finely chopped parsley and onions, plenty of seasoning, a little good stock or gravy, and a sprinkling of flour. When tender add a tablespoonful of fresh cream, and serve in a vegetable dish. These are sometimes mixed with a well-stewed lettuce, strained and cut up fairly small; the latter is often used on the Continent with other kinds of peas, such as the pois sucres and the pois mange-tout, which are merely richer varieties of the ordinary peas usually found on English tables. The generally adopted ways of cooking green peas vary but little in one or two of their details. For instance, put them into some butter previously made hot in a suitable saucepan over the fire, add some salt, pepper, and a few sprigs of fresh mint, put on the lid, and let them simmer gently till tender ; then stir in another piece of butter worked with a tablespoonful of flour, and stir till it is melted and the liquor thickens. Just before serving, add the yolk of an egg and a pinch of castor sugar. This plan answers very well if the peas are young, but directly they begin to be hard it is best to parboil them in water first, or rather scald them with very boiling water, and let them stand in the latter for a few minutes well covered. Then have ready a sauce made over the fire with butter, flour, and good stock or gravy (according to whether you want a light or a dark dish), and put in the peas as soon as the sauce is thick enough to be dished up. Here, again, you can add theVegetables 195 yolk of an egg, and, of course, plenty of seasoning at the last minute. Or, again, after having parboiled or well scalded the peas, merely " pass " them in hot butter (as the French say), and serve very hot, sprinkled with salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of very finely chopped chives and chervil. Pois ail lard (with Bacon).—Slightly brown some fairly lean bacon cut in small dice, and some tiny onions, in a little hot fat ; add a little salt and pepper, a bouquet (tied up in a muslin bag), and then the peas. Moisten the whole with a little water, cover, and set over a brisk fire; when the water has been absorbed put in a little roux brun, and half an eggspoonful of Liebig's extract. Let this simmer till the peas are just thoroughly moist, but not swimming in gravy ; remove the bouquet, and serve very hot. Another delicious way of serving them is this : Boil some peas in a little water with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of sugar, some thinly sliced carrots, potatoes, young onions, and a young lettuce finely shredded. Put in a bouquet as above, cover, let the contents simmer gently over a moderate fire, when quite tender remove the bouquet, thicken with a little roux blond or the yolk of an egg, stir in a little piece of butter at the last, and serve. Stock can be used if desired instead of water. Artichauts (Artichokes).—This favourite article of food can hardly be sent to table in a more acceptable way than plain boiled, with butter simply melted, or with a sauce mousseline ; yet there are one or two other recipes which may prove acceptable for a change. The best known of these is, perhaps, the " hangoute," and with that I will begin. Choose large artichokes for this purpose ; wrench off the stem by firmly holding it close to the leaves and pulling rather sharply, for in this manner you will beig6 Dainty Meals for Small Households sure to pull out some tough threads that run up from the bottom of the vegetable. Pare them straight to make them stand, without actually cutting into the edible part; remove all the central bluish leaves, and through the opening thus provided cut out all the " choke " with a cutter or a sharp iron spoon. When the inside is per- fectly free from everything except the leaves, fill the opening with a duxelle (see below), put a trimmed slice of bacon over each artichoke, tie them down so that they cannot fall to pieces or become disarranged, and put them into a saucepan lined with slices of bacon, sliced onions and carrots previously heated in some fat. Stand the sauce- pan over the fire, cover, let them simmer a few minutes, then pour in equal quantities of white wine and stock to one-third of the height of the artichokes. Let the con- tents of the saucepan simmer gently for some time with the lid on until the liquor has been greatly reduced (by about two-thirds). Remove the artichokes, take off the string, dish them up, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, put it back over the fire (meantime keeping the artichokes hot) ; add a little roux brun and half an eggspoonful of Liebig's extract of meat; finally stir in a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice. Pour over the artichokes and serve. Make the duxelle as follows, but, if more convenient, use any other kind of stuffing for the artichokes, such as chopped remains of cold chicken, onions, parsley, mushrooms, olives, &c. Duxelle.—Heat some butter over the fire, then add shallots and onions cut in very small dice ; toss them till barely coloured ; add double the quantity of raw chopped mushrooms ; when these have given out all their moisture, season to taste, and put in some white wine ; thicken with roux brun and half an eggspoonful of Liebig ; when reduced to the necessary quantity throw in a small handful of parsley. The saucepanVegetables 197 should previously have been rubbed with a clove of garlic. Baked.— Cut some large artichokes into four lengthwise, or, if small, in half; trim them and remove the choke and central leaves ; parboil them in a little water or stock, with salt and pepper. Drain off all the water, then arrange the artichokes, with the insides upwards, in a well-greased gratin or baking dish that can be sent to table ; sprinkle them with good oil or butter melted over the fire, breadcrumbs (very finely grated), Parmesan cheese, and chopped herbs. Bake till the top is a good colour, and serve as a savoury or separate course. a I'ltalienne. — Trim off the tops of some artichokes, remove the centre leaves and the choke as before, cut them in four or six pieces downwards, parboil them in some salt water with a few drops of vinegar. Strain thoroughly, arrange them in a flat saucepan, side by side, sprinkle with plentiful seasoning^ salt, pepper, and one ground clove, and moisten with equal parts of melted butter and oil, well mixed. Cook them till tender over a moderate fire ; remove them from the saucepan and keep them hot. Add to the liquor in the pan some chopped shallots ; when they begin to colour add some white wine, thicken with roux brun, and a little Liebig as before ; let this boil, put the artichokes back into this sauce, let it boil once, squeeze in a few drops of lemon, sprinkle with a small handful of very finely-chopped herbs, and serve. Asperges (Asparagus).—These, like the foregoing, are, perhaps, best according to some tastes in their plainest fashion, steamed (if possible) rather than boiled, and served, like artichokes, with butter, with a sauce poivrade, or with a dressing of oil and vinegar ; with the latter they can be eaten either hot or cold. For boilingig8 Dainty Meals for Small Households they should be cut in even lengths, as everyone knows, scraped gently so as not to break them, and tied into small bundles so that they may keep together and be easily removed from the kettle. Some folks aver that they should only be steamed in a regular apparatus provided for the purpose ; but any household that is not provided with this can, nevertheless, rest content, for the asparagus is just as good without it. When there is any doubt as to the freshness of this vegetable, it may be obtained at a lower price, but is for this reason by no means to be despised. In this condition it should be washed, scraped, and the tops must be cut off; there will always be a little over two inches quite fit to eat. These should be cut in two, and put into a saucepan containing a little hot butter ; add a tablespoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a little good stock ; cover, and let this all simmer over a moderate fire till the contents are tender, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of good fresh cream or sour milk, and serve on fried bread. This makes a most delicious dish. Frits (Fried).—Remove all the hard part as above ; cut up the remainder or not as desired ; parboil them in salted water slightly acidulated with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar ; strain them and plunge them into cold water ; drain again, and, holding them in small bundles of four or six, dip them in a good batter, or merely in yolk of egg well beaten, and fry. Serve with fried parsley, and, if desired, a sauce tartare. an Gratin.—Again use the tender part only, and parboil as above ; prepare some green peas in the same way ; arrange them in layers in a gratin dish, cover with fine breadcrumbs and Parmesan cheese ; sprinkle with finely- chopped herbs, and bake in the oven till a good colour. Finally try this, which I have borrowed from a modern French culinary authority, simply excusingVegetables igg myself with the proverb that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. Sauce Mornay.—This is also a dish an gratin, and makes an excellent savoury or entremets course. Boil the asparagus till quite tender, dress it en fiyraniide in a fireproof dish fit to go to table, cover with the sauce of Mornay, then with grated Parmesan cheese and a little hot butter ; bake in the oven, and serve when a good golden colour. The sauce is made thus: Put two or three tablespoonfuls of some liquor in which mushrooms have been cooked into a shallow pan over the fire ; let it reduce to about one-third of its original quantity, add the necessary amount of good bechamel, a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste ; let this boil gradually, and stir in a small handful of grated Parmesan cheese. When the mixture is quite smooth and boiling, draw the pan off the fire and add (still stirring all the time) a piece of butter the size of a small egg, putting in tiny pieces at a time. When the sauce has well thickened, pour it over the asparagus and proceed as shown above. The following is a recipe by Mr. E. P. Veerasawmy for the delicious vegetable pastry which is so popular among our fellow countrymen in India, and which is rapidly coming into favour here :— Bhugias (Vegetable Pastry).—Two eggs, one bottle of tinned macedoine with the water drained away, or an equal quantity of freshly-cooked vegetables, preferably carrots, beans, peas, and turnips. The carrots, peas, and turnips must be cut up into small pieces. The operator will also require one teaspoonful of Nizam Nepaul pepper, half teaspoonful Nizam cayenne pepper, one dessert- spoonful of garlic vinegar, one small onion finely minced up, one dessertspoonful of Paisley flour, half a pound of ordinary white flour, salt to taste, and lard or oil for200 Dainty Meals for Small Households frying. Beat up the eggs in a basin; stir into them the onions, vegetables, Nepaul pepper, cayenne pepper, garlic vinegar, salt to taste, Paisley flour, and the ordinary flour. Mix well, and it will obtain the con- sistency of thick batter. In a saute or frying-pan have ready some boiling lard or oil, drop spoonfuls of batter into the pan, fry slowly until both sides become a golden colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve very hot. There seems little else in the way of vegetables, except the potato, which has been purposely left till the last. It is, perhaps, rather difficult to broach this subject, because it has so often been exhaustively treated, and also because there is a prevalent idea (perhaps more in- stinctively felt than loudly expressed) that when the tubers have been boiled, baked, mashed, fried, or saute there is little else to do with them. For this reason little or nothing need be said about these various modes, as they are so generally known ; but a few words of advice may be given as to the pommes soufflees, together with one or two foreign recipes little known here. Pommes Soufflees.—These, when well cooked, are as delicious as can be ; but there is a knack about preparing them which it is difficult to attain. Every detail of the instructions should be most carefully followed, for failure is generally due either to the temperature of the fat or to the thickness of the potato slices. With a thermometer, however, it is hardly possible to go far wrong. After experimenting with this, it is easy to tell the various stages of heat by the appearance of the fat. Some of the best culinary authorities have decided that lard is the safest material to use. Peel and wash the potatoes, and cut them in very even slices, about the thickness of a 5 fr. piece (not quite a quarter of an inch) ; reckon lib. of lard to every fib. of potatoes thus prepared. When the fat has been heated to about no° put in the slices,201 Vegetables and moderate the fire (gas is far the best for this opera- tion) ; let them fry for about eight minutes, when the degree of 140 should have been reached. The fat at this point will no longer emit the bubbles caused at first by the evaporation of the moisture, and the potatoes will float, having become slightly inflated. Of course they should be done in the ordinary frying-basket ; remove this, heat the fat to 2000 and plunge the basket in again quickly for a few seconds, when the right swelling will be reached. When they are all ready, leave them in the basket over a strainer, and, one minute before dishing them up, put them once more into boiling fat, drain them quickly, and send them to table immediately. a la Creme Aigre (with Sour Cream).—Cut some cold boiled potatoes into slices, fry them in hot fat, with salt, pepper, and a handful of finely-chopped onions ; when they just begin to colour, drain off some of the fat, pour a half pint or so of sour cream over them, and when this is quite hot, serve with fried sippets. an Jus (in Gravy).—Peel some raw potatoes, and cut them into fairly even dice ; heat some fat in a stew- pan, throw in a few chopped onions, a pinch of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, and cover with good stock. Put on the lid, let them stew till tender without stirring them at all; most of the stock will now be absorbed. Add a teacupful of good meat gravy and a pinch of grated nut- meg, and serve. en Panade.—Choose potatoes of an even size, wash them well, and boil them without peeling them. When done, remove the skin, cut them in even slices, and dip them in the beaten yolk of egg ; roll them in some fine rusk raspings, and fry a good colour in boiling fat. aux Champignons (with Mushrooms).—Equal quantities of both these vegetables should be reckoned for this dish. Peel and cut the mushrooms to a suitable202 Dainty Meals for Small Households size, sprinkle them with salt, and sautez them in some hot fat till the moisture has been absorbed ; stir into these three or four whole eggs well beaten, and add the potatoes, previously boiled and cut in slices (they should not be allowed to cool after the boiling). With this mixture fill a buttered fireproof dish or shape, and let it cook au bain-marie for at least twenty-five minutes ; turn it out and serve at once. For one breakfast-cupful of mushrooms and potatoes respectively two eggs would be required, and so on. a la Lyonnaise.—Slightly brown, in hot fat, one or two finely sliced onions ; when they are of a good colour, add the potatoes, previously boiled in salted water, and cut in small pieces ; sautez them till they are brown. Serve very hot, with crushed fried parsley. a la Savoyarde.—Finely slice three large potatoes, put them into a basin with plenty of salt and pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a whole egg well beaten. Add 2oz. of grated cheese and nearly half a pint of boiled milk, and well mix these ingredients. Pour them into a fireproof dish of suitable size and shape (previously rubbed with garlic), sprinkle with more grated cheese, lay some tiny pieces of butter over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for at least forty minutes. This is (in England at any rate) a most uncommon dish, but it is a delicious one. The quantities can, of course, be in- creased proportionately. The above suffice for three or four persons. au Gratin.—Peel and boil the potatoes, crush them in a mortar, stir in one or two whole eggs pre- viously beaten, and a small piece of butter, and moisten with a little milk. Butter a fireproof or gratin dish, pour in the above puree, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and a few tiny pieces of butter, and gratinez it in the oven till a good colour. It must be sent to table very hot.203 Salads au Fromage (with Cheese).—These are done in the same way as the above, but should have a little grated cheese stirred in with the other ingredients, and be sprinkled with equal quantities of grated cheese and breadcrumbs. a la Duchesse.—Peel and boil, then crush the potatoes, adding a piece of butter the size of a small egg (this quantity for six potatoes, for instance), and the yolks of two eggs ; when well mixed let it cool. Have ready a board with dried, sifted flour, take up enough of the puree to make into a ball about the size of an egg, roll in the flour, then flatten it so as to form an oblong cake ; have some hot fat in a sautez pan, and fry the potatoes thus formed without allowing them to touch; drain, serve en couronne on a hot dish. b. Salads. Before leaving the subject of vegetables a word or two must be said on the subject of salads; there is hardly any time in the year when these are not welcome, and it is a taste that is very easily acquired. It is a fallacy to think of it only as an accompaniment to cold meat; at the same time one need not bind oneself to serve it as a sine qua non when roast chicken is on the menu, after the inevi- table Continental table d'hote plan. But a happy medium may be observed, and a variety in salads should not be despised by any means. Lettuces, both long and round, endive, and u corn salad " are the principal green plants most suited to this dish ; but, as with everything else in the world, there is a right and a wrong way of treating them. Two mistakes are frequently made in this respect ; first of all, people who are inexperienced, or even merely indifferent in culinary matters, are apt to put up with green stuff that is not quite fresh; secondly, when this204 Dainty Meals for Small Households has been washed it is not always dried—and this is fatal to a good salad. The former fault makes the food un- wholesome, and the latter not only wastes the dressing, but makes the material very unpalatable. Another important matter in the question is the oil and vinegar ; if either of these be stale, or otherwise of poor quality, the best material will be spoilt. Excellent oil is by no means an unobtainable luxury. Many good firms keep it, and, as the price is not prohibitive, there is no reason why it should not be used; yet at many well- kept tables one meets with salads dressed with oil which is, to say the least, objectionable, merely through care- lessness. To all those who enjoy good food I strongly recommend Messrs. Cosenza and Co.'s (95, Wigmore St.) Italian oil, imported direct from the olive district par excellence, Bari. The same firm also make a speciality of a wonderfully pure vinegar, more particularly suited to persons of delicate digestion, viz. the Lacrima Cristi. For ordinary purposes, however, nothing equals the French white wine vinegar, which has a delicious flavour, and which, on account of its strength, is more economical than the commoner dark fluid so generally used in England; the fact, too, that a small quantity only is required keeps the lettuce, &c, from too much dressing liquor—a salad swimming in its dressing is a sure sign of a poor operator. Having secured the lettuce, &c., in the freshest possible state (of course in the country this is an easy matter), wash it thoroughly in two or three waters, drain and shake it well, either in a salad basket or in cloth held at the four corners, whilst the contents are shaken to and fro, and, lastly, dry it in a clean cloth, dabbing it gently with the palm of the hand, so as not to crush the leaves. Rub the bowl slightly with a garlic clove, and proceed in either of the following ways :—205 Salads The ordinary English salad dressing consists of salt and pepper, and, if desired, spices to taste, mustard, oil, and vinegar in the usual proportions, and, of course, according to the liking of those concerned. A raw or hard-boiled yolk of egg can be added if desired. On the other hand, dressings can be varied at will by the addition of all sorts of things, such as tarragon vinegar, hot sauces, anchovies, capers, &c. This must be determined both by prevailing taste and also by the nature of the ingredients which form the salad. These, too, can be indefinitely varied, and all sorts of things can be mixed together for the purpose. Russian and German salads, as many of my readers know, are composed of many different things, such as fish, potatoes, meat, celery, and every imaginable kind of vegetable—the greater the variety the stronger, of course, the dressing must be. With cooked materials, the absorption is much more rapid than with plain fresh lettuce, for instance, and these facts must be taken into consideration. It is unnecessary for me to detail the ways of preparing salads which are to be met with in almost every household, but I will suggest a few more uncommon modifications of this most palatable dish. First, then, let it not be thought that salad (as above stated) must be the constant companion of the con- ventional table (Phdte chicken so familiar to the holiday- maker abroad ; on the contrary, it suits all sorts of roast dishes, made with eggs (provided they be not sweet) or cheese, or omelets, and the like. Let those who rather doubt this statement, and who are not unjustly prejudiced against suggestions, try such combinations, and they will surely not regret it. Lettuce and Green Salads.—First, remember the old saying that four persons are required for mixing a salad— a spendthrift to measure the oil, a miser the vinegar, a wise man for the proper distribution of salt and what I2o6 Dainty Meals for Small Households will call other seasoning spices (such as the French quatre epices), and a madman to mix the whole compound. Having prepared the a green stuff," pound in a mortar one hard-boiled yolk of egg to each person, then stir in the usual amount of salt, pepper, and quatre epices, oil, vinegar (plain or tarragon), two or three drops of anchovy sauce, a saltspoonful of Maggi's essence, and at the last a dessertspoonful of thick cream or a little sour milk ; mix this thoroughly with the salad just before it is wanted for the table. Or mix it in the ordinary way minus the vinegar, fry some small squares of bacon, heat the necessary quantity of vinegar in a pipkin, pour it over the salad (which must be put into a hot salad bowl), throw in the bacon, and serve with hot tongue, or other roast meat as a supper dish. With plain boiled calf's head it is particularly delicious. All salads, of whatever they be composed, are improved by the addition of finely-chopped herbs, such as chives and chervil ; a very little parsley may be included, and for many people onions are de rigneur. Of course, this must remain a question of personal taste, but one so often hears complaints about dishes not " tasting the same as they do abroad," for instance, that it is well to give in detail the full ingredients which go towards forming a real Continental salad ; moreover, it must not be for- gotten that the vulgar garlic root should not be omitted, and that it should be used to lightly rub the bottom of the salad bowl. Macedoines, or, in other words, a mixture of various sorts of cooked vegetables, are most delicious, and always acceptable. They can be made at all seasons, as the preserved material may be used for the purpose with advantage. The vegetables that are best used alone are cauliflowers, peas, French beans, haricot beans, and potatoes respectively. They should in every case be207 Salads boiled till tender, duly strained, and, when cold, seasoned in the accepted manner. Salade de Campagne (Country Salad).—This is essen- tially a winter dish. Finely slice a small fresh red cabbage with a very sharp knife, parboil it for about twenty minutes, let it drain thoroughly, sprinkle it when cold thickly with salt, and stand it aside for four or five hours. Finely slice some cold but freshly-boiled potatoes, strain the cabbage again, mix it with the potatoes, add some chopped onions, chopped tarragon and chives, and season rather freely. This may be eaten hot or cold according to taste. If hot, the potatoes must be used as soon as they are boiled, and the cabbage can be quickly heated au bain-marie. Cucumbers are, as we all know, well suited for dressing in the same fashion, and are excellent whether used alone or mixed with other things; they are considered unwholesome, or at any rate difficult of digestion, by a number of people. There is, however, a secret in preparing the same; they must, of course, be sliced very fine—in fact, much more so than is usual. This operation should take place at least two hours before the cucumber is to be served ; during this time it should be placed in a colander, thickly sprinkled with salt, and weighted with a plate or saucer small enough to " give" as the cucumber sinks lower. In this way the vegetable loses a great deal of the moisture which makes it unwholesome, and also takes the dressing much more easily. Potatoes and celery go well together and make a delicious warm salad. When ready sliced in a hot bowl, moisten with a little good hot stock, and have ready the dressing so that the dish can be sent in whilst still warm. Mix the dressing thus : Pound a small hot potato in the mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, salt this to taste, add a pinch of black pepper and one of cayenne pepper, stir into this three tablespoonfuls208 Dainty Meals for Small Households of oil and vinegar respectively, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar or a few drops of essence, one small onion, and some parsley and chives (all very finely chopped), a few drops of Maggi essence and anchovy sauce respectively, and a tablespoonful of thick cream. All kinds of shell- fish, too, are admirably adapted to this purpose, and generally greatly appreciated. Mussels, crayfish, crabs, lobsters, or oysters make the most tempting and present- able supper dishes. Salade au Homard (Lobster Salad).—Shell and cut up a good boiled lobster, arrange it in layers in a suitable dish, alternating with a sprinkling of capers and filleted sardines; make a tasty dressing with pounded yolks of hard-boiled eggs, pepper, salt, cayenne, oil, vinegar, a little good white wine, finely-chopped tarragon, parsley, and shallots. Mix thoroughly, re-arrange the lobster, &c, add the chopped leaves of a washed and well-dried lettuce, and serve garnished with hard-boiled eggs and croutons of caviar. Tinned goods are frequently used for making salads. Personally I should not recommend the practice; at any rate, in such a case care should be taken to obtain the boxes from a reliable firm, and to use only perfectly sweet-smelling material. The bottled fish preserves—for instance, eels in jelly, salmon, herrings in wine, &c.—as sold by German and French charcutiers in London, are, however, admirably suited for this purpose. aux Sardines (Sardine Salad).—Skin, drain, and carefully bone some large sardines ; arrange them in a dish with some capers, one chopped pickled capsicum, some preserved sour plums, some preserved eel with some of its jelly, if possible a few morels, and oysters ; cover with mayonnaise or a dressing made as for the preceding recipe. Garnish with slices of lemon. Mixed Salad.—Slice very finely two or three boiledSalads 209 potatoes, one large sour apple, some beetroot, cucumber, and a small pickled gherkin ; to this add some well- washed fresh corn-salad and a sliced onion ; sprinkle with finely-chopped herbs, as shown before, and mix all these ingredients with a good dressing made from the usual materials, adding to the same a few drops of anchovy sauce and a little sour cream. Garnish with stoned olives and hard-boiled eggs. Salade Excentrique.—For this use a mixture of the most dainty or extravagant ingredients that can be pro- cured—artichoke bottoms, asparagus tops, olives, sliced mushrooms, preserved (bottled) salmon with its jelly, or some cold game (either of the latter in very small quantity), capers, one filleted anchovy cut small, chopped herbs, &c. Rub the dish with a little garlic, and mix with a good dressing, to which add a few drops of catsup. aux Harengs (Herring Salad).—Use the ordinary smoked red herring ; warm it so that the skin may come off easily ; lift the flesh carefully off the bones, and soak it in some lukewarm milk, so as to lessen the salt taste. Drain, and cut in small pieces. Finely slice some freshly- boiled potatoes, a couple of good sharp apples, an onion, some beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and a little chopped endive. Mix this with a strong dressing, arrange nicely in a dish, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg and beetroot. PCHAPTER XIV. SWEETS, TARTS, ETC. The next subject is that of sweets, and of these so many- hundreds have been given in various cookery books that only some good and less well-known recipes, suitable for small households, need be given here. To begin with pastry, which is an essential requisite for many dishes that do not by any means exclusively belong to high-class cookery. Recipes for making this are, doubtless, ex- tremely useful, but there is a knack in working dough that will make a failure or a success, independently of the most minute instructions. Again, though it is a good plan to carry out a recipe to the letter, it is also obvious that experience must teach little differences upon which the operator must act at her own discretion. But certain apparent trifles are not for that reason to be put aside. In this special branch of cookery, details, not of ingredients, but of outward circumstances, are of the greatest importance in helping to bring about a good result. First, pastry should be prepared in a cool place ; when the temperature is low, care is not so imperative, but in summer, in nine cases out of ten, failure is due to great heat. Then the flour should always be dried and sifted, and the butter well pressed, to free it from all surplus moisture ; to this end it is advisable in hot weather to wash the butter in fresh water overnight, roll it tightly in a clean dry muslin, beat it gently with a wooden roller, and place it on a marble slab till wanted. When211 Sweets, Tarts, etc. lard is used it must be absolutely fresh, and worked in a cool room. Further, the knife or cutter must be sharp, and when the pastry is brushed over with egg or water as the case may be, this should not be dropped on any other part except on that on which it is required, for such a proceeding would prove detrimental to the result. Lastly, the oven should be kept well closed to ensure a perfectly even heat, otherwise the pastry will fall in on the side where the heat is not so great, and it is not until the pastry has risen that a sheet of paper should be spread over the top ; then the ventilator may be opened to let out the moisture and to completely dry the contents. A good way of proving the oven is this : Lay a sheet of paper inside ; if it turns yellow quickly, the degree is attained for puff pastry, and that which is made with butter, and with yeast. Other kinds of dough, &c., succeed better when the heat of the oven colours the paper more slowly. It is impossible to give here all the different ways of making pastry. For a good all-round pastry, especially for sweet purposes, it is safe to reckon equal parts of flour and butter, though some people consider the result rather too rich ; in such a case more flour should be added. Put the former on the board in a circle, add a pinch of salt and a quarter of the butter, and pour in just enough water to allow of mixing the ingredients together, so as gradually to form a stiff paste. When this is done roll it out, divide the remainder of the butter into three parts, break one into small pieces all over the pastry ; fold it up and roll it out again ; repeat the operation with the second part of the butter, then with the third. Fold up a last time, and set in a cool place overnight. This will be found useful for all ordinary purposes.212 Dainty Meals for Small Households A useful paste for open tarts is made thus : Work together |lb. of fresh butter with -|lb. of flour (or in larger proportions), a small lump of lard about the size of half an egg, and salt to taste ; mix the ingredients very thoroughly with the palm of the hand, fold the paste over two or three times, roll it out, stand it aside for about half an hour, then use it as required. Or, again, take three tablespoonfuls of fresh lard, lib. of dried flour, and salt to taste ; work well together, moistening with enough water to bring it to the proper consistency ; roll it out as above, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour. This is very good for fruit pies, turnovers, &c. Ordinary Frying Batter.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with some flour and salt, add a dessertspoonful of olive oil and a little water, and make into a fairly thick paste ; let it stand for two hours. Beat the whites of the eggs and add them to the paste just before it is wanted. This is very good for ordinary fruit or vegetable fritters. Another way.—Dissolve some flour in about three- quarters of a pint of warm milk to form a thick paste ; then add three eggs, and beat them thoroughly until bubbles are formed on the surface ; then add a little warm wine, and continue beating until the paste has attained the consistency of thick cream. It will then be ready for use. The ordinary batter used for puddings is also available for fritters, but the operator must decide which of the above methods should be adopted according to circum- stances. The following, which is most suitable for batter pudding, can also be used for fritters : Beat up two eggs in half a pint of milk, into this beat about two tablespoon- fuls of flour until the mixture is of the consistency of thick cream, when it will be ready for use. Puff Pastry.—Mix in a basin sufficient flour (about lib.), with two eggs, a pinch of salt, and nearly 2oz. of213 Sweets, Tarts, etc. butter, together with the necessary quantity of milk ; put it on to a well floured board, and there work it thoroughly. The condition of the paste can be tested by pressing the finger upon it ; the dent made by the touch should disappear at once. Fold it, cover it with a basin, and let it stand in a cool place for half an hour ; meantime work about fib. of butter with some flour. Roll out the pastry which has been standing by, put the floured butter in the centre, fold it over from the four sides, and roll it out to the thickness of less than a finger. The butter must not be visible again, and therefore flour should be used rather plentifully ; fold it again, roll it again, and repeat this four times ; cover it up, and put it in a cool place for two hours. Moulds of various kinds are a great resource in the choice of sweets, and are generally appreciated by lovers of this particular course. A good many require the addition of isinglass or gelatine, and many are the cases of failure resulting when this substance is used. This lack of success is due to various causes, one being the inferior material, another the misapplication of the same. Isinglass proper is very expensive, but Mrs. A. B. Marshall's leaf gelatine (which, though well known, is not nearly as generally used as it deserves to be) is far and away the best, goes the farthest, and is very easily amalgamated with the ingredients it is intended to stiffen. As a rule, it is safe to reckon about f oz. of this leaf gelatine to every pint of jelly, and to allow a little less for the same sized mould where creams are con- cerned. Gateau aux Emits (Open Fruit Tart).—This is a most delicious sweet, which rarely figures on an English menu, and is yet generally enjoyed by everybody. To each pound of flour allow one egg, a little milk, and a pinch of salt; work these to a suitable stiffness, add gradually,214 Dainty Meals for Small Households and in small pieces, about fib. of butter; fold the pastry over, roll it out ; continue this until all the butter has been used, then fold it up, roll it out three times, and let it stand for half an hour. When it is ready to put into the tin, it ought not to be thicker than the back of the blade of a carving knife. The baking tin should be of the plainest kind, of rather thin make, and with an edge not more than half an inch or so in depth. The fruit must be stoned, neatly opened or cut in half, laid on the pastry to cover it completely just before it is put into the oven, and quickly baked and served when the greatest heat has subsided, with a sprinkling of sugar and cinnamon. These tarts are also eaten cold. Cherries, apples (peeled, cored, and cut in fairly thin slices), and plums are the best to use for this kind of dish. Gooseberries and straw- berries also answer well if not too ripe. Other Open Fruit Tarts.—Take lib. of flour, fib. of but- ter, three-quarters of a tumblerful of water (cold and fresh), and a pinch of salt. Put the flour on the board ; make a hole in the centre, put in the butter, the water (gradu- ally), and the salt ; work together the ingredients very thoroughly, not mixing them too rapidly ; gather the whole into one large lump, flatten it down twice with the hand, roll it into a large ball, and let it stand twenty minutes before using it. When the tart is wanted, roll out the pastry to a thickness of a little less than fin.; spread it on a round baking tin ; make a thick folded edge. Have ready some apples, for instance, first quartered and then cut into fairly thin slices ; arrange them on the pastry in circles, beginning at the outside, and going gradually all over the pastry in rings, so that each circle overlaps another by a very little. Mix three pinches of sugar with one of powdered cinnamon, sprinkle these over the apples j put the tin into a brisk oven and bake for thirty or forty minutes, When it is done sprinkleSweets, Tarts, etc. 2T5 more sugar over it and serve, or let it stand till cold. The same plan should be observed with plums, peaches, cherries, gooseberries, pears, and apricots. Christmas Plum Pudding.—Provide the following in- gredients : lib. of suet, ~\b. of flour, -|lb. breadcrumbs, lib. raisins, lib. currants, lib. sultanas, 2oz. each of orange peel, lemon peel, citron peel; 2oz. of almonds not cut small; twelve bitter almonds pounded, ioz. mixed spice, one teaspoonful of ginger, the juice and rind (cut small) of one lemon, ten eggs, one teacupful of sugar, two full wineglasses of brandy, a little salt, and add a little milk at the last. The suet must be entirely freed from skin and thoroughly shredded ; this process is greatly facilitated by the use of a wonderfully simple and inexpensive little apparatus to be had from the Household Supply Company, New Bond Street, and of most good ironmongers (it can be used for many other purposes, such as vegetables, &c, &c). The flour must be carefully dried and sifted, and the indispensable stoning of raisins becomes an easy and pleasant task if the comparatively new raisin stoner is used. The preparation of the mixture can quite con- veniently last over two or three days, and it cannot be stirred too often or too thoroughly during its manufacture. Another important thing to remember is that it cannot boil too long ; finally, it decidedly improves by keeping. The preliminary boiling of a freshly-made plum pudding may vary from five to ten hours ; it can then be boiled with advantage for another four to six hours before being served. With regard to keeping ; the puddings, after undergoing the first boil, should be stored just as they are in a dry cupboard ; they can be used throughout the year, and, as I said above, are better every time a fresh one is used. Mince Pies.—For these the following ingredients are216 Dainty Meals for Small Households - required :—31b. of good apples peeled and chopped, -fib. of very finely-chopped suet, iflb. of raisins stoned and chopped, iflb. of currants carefully cleaned and dried, 1 fib. of finely-pounded sugar, the rind of two lemons and the juice of one and a half, \oz. of salt, one tablespoonful of mixed spices, one grated nutmeg, two wineglassfuls of brandy, and lib. of orange and lemon peel respectively, cut in very thin slices. Mix and knead all these ingredients thoroughly in a pan, cover, and keep in a cool place. Bricelets (Swiss Cakes).—These can be made as follows : Beat up in a basin four eggs, fib. of powdered sugar and of fresh butter respectively. Mix with this enough well- sifted flour to make a thick paste, that can be poured into the iron in which they are baked, just like ganfres. (The gaufrier can be obtained at Bonnet's cookery utensil establishment in Shaftesbury Avenue.) Or, three eggs, their weight in flour, the weight of two eggs in butter and sugar, the zest of a lemon or a pinch of powdered cinnamon ; knead all thoroughly, make the paste into small balls, put them into the gaufrier and bake over a wood fire. Or, ^lb. of well-sifted flour, 6oz. of sugar and butter respectively, and some vanilla or lemon flavouring. Bake in the same way. The gaufrier should always be slightly greased with butter before using, The Salt Bricelets are also very good and make an excellent accompaniment to a cup of coffee. Take |lb. of fresh butter and ten tablespoonfuls of flour. Melt the butter, or rather beat it to a cream, then stir in the flour, add one egg, and salt to taste. Bake as before. Gaufres (Waffles) are well worth a trial. The ingre- dients are : fib. of sifted flour, fib. pounded sugar, two tablespoonfuls of orange flower water, and a pinch of grated zest of lemon. Mix these all well together, and stir in Mb. of fresh butter beaten to a cream. Into this stir217 Sweets, Tarts, etc. enough milk to produce a thick cream; stand it aside for three hours ; grease the gaufrier, spread it full of the paste, and bake quickly, turning the iron over so that both sides may have an equal heat. They should be eaten as soon as they are turned out, with castor sugar sprinkled over them. Milan Cakes.—Take fib. of fine dry flour, \\b. of sifted sugar, \\b. of butter, and three eggs ; stir the butter to a thick cream, and mix it thoroughly with all the other ingredients. Work the paste well with the hand or a wooden spoon, roll it out on a floured board to the thickness of an ordinary biscuit. Cut the paste into fancy shapes and bake on a buttered tin in a moderate oven, after having brushed them over with the yolk of an egg. Or, take |lb. of roughly pounded almonds, three eggs, some flavouring (vanilla or any other), \Vo. of sugar, -|lb. butter beaten to a cream, and \oz. of cinnamon. Mix all these thoroughly, sprinkling some flour in the while to stiffen the paste; this should be quite thick enough to be spread neatly on a buttered tin with a wooden spatula. Brush over with yolk of egg, bake as above, and cut up afterwards. The latter should be eaten the same day as made, whereas the former can be kept in tins for a week or more. Chocolate Souffle.—Grate about \\b. of chocolate, beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin, and the whites of the same on a plate ; stir into the yolks about two table- spoonfuls of castor sugar, then to this gradually add the grated chocolate till a smooth paste is formed ; lastly, stir in the whites, which must have been beaten very stiff. Butter the fireproof dish, put in the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven (which must not be opened until the souffle is done). Serve at once, or it will fall in. Chocolate Pudding.—To Jib. of grated chocolate allow a heaped tablespoonful of flour ; put the mixture218 Dainty Meals for Small Households into a suitable saucepan, and stir the contents to a paste, adding gradually about three-quarters of a pint of cream ; meantime beat four eggs, one after the other, with nearly 40Z. of butter (previously beaten to a cream) ; add this to the mixture in the saucepan, sweeten and flavour to taste ; put it into a buttered mould, and boil in water for an hour and a half au bain-marie. Chocolate Omelet.—For four eggs allow one tablet of chocolate, which should be pounded, and dissolved in as little cream as possible to accomplish the purpose. When the chocolate is cold, add the yolks of the four eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, and the whites whipped to a snow. With this mixture proceed as for frying an ordinary omelet, working briskly over a good fire in well heated fat ; turn the omelet into a dish, glaze quickly with a little chocolate dissolved in water and a little gelatine, and serve promptly. Apple Pudding.—Boil about half a dozen apples, peeled, cored, and quartered, in equal quantities of red wine and water (the amount to depend on the mould or dish to be filled) ; when tender, add two small rolls previously slightly soaked in milk, two whole eggs, 30Z. of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of flour. Stir these ingredients that they may become amalgamated without being crushed to a pulp ; butter a mould, strew it with bread or zwieback raspings, and bake in the oven. Baked Apples.—Peel, core, and slice some good sharp apples, cut them in half, moisten them with red wine, roll them in good, sifted flour, and bake them or fry them in hot butter, keep them very hot until all have undergone the same process ; arrange them on a dish, sprinkle them with chopped almonds, and serve with a hot wine sauce poured over them. Apple Snow.—Take four large apples, peel, core, andSweets, Tarts, etc. 219 slice them, and stew them till tender ; sweeten and, if desired, flavour to taste ; butter a fireproof dish, put in the puree, whip the whites of two or three eggs to a very stiff froth, lay it roughly all over the top, strew it over with castor sugar, and bake for about ten minutes till of a nice colour. Portuguese Apples.—Peel some good sharp apples, core them carefully without making a hole right through, and retaining a small piece with which to cover the aperture after it has been filled as shown below ; fill them either with some kind of thick jam, or with a mixture of pounded sweet almonds, beaten up with a little sugar and lemon juice. Replace the cover, dip each apple in a batter made by mixing together some flour, lemon juice, a sprinkling of sugar, and the yolk of one egg ; fry in very hot butter and serve at once either with or without some cream or custard. Plain Devonshire cream is the best accompaniment to apples done in this way. Portuguese Jelly.—Peel and core some apples, boil them tender and press them through a sieve ; then put them over the fire again for about three-quarters of an hour with some syrup made from about a pound of sugar (these quantities may be halved), add the zest of one lemon, and the juice of two oranges ; pour this into a mould and put it in a cold place to set ; a little of Marshall's leaf gelatine will be an improvement and assist the setting. When the mould is turned out, serve with a sauce made with some of the syrup to which two or three tablespoonfuls of rum have been added. Apple Pancakes.—Mix two large spoonfuls of flour quite smooth in a cup of milk or wine, to this add six or seven eggs, some pounded cinnamon, grated lemon peel, a small handful of well-washed currants, and eight apples peeled, cored, and finely chopped. Have the frying-pan ready with hot butter, pour in the mixture,220 Dainty Meals for Small Households fry on both sides, and serve very hot with sugar and cinnamon. Apple Fritters.—Peel, core, and slice the apples, dip them in batter, and fry a golden brown. Serve sprinkled with castor sugar. Bread and Almond Pudding.—Cut in thick slices about half a pound of stale bread, and over this pour about three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk ; crush the bread so that no lumps remain, add the yolks of two e£gs> 30Z- of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, 2oz. of sultanas, and 30Z. of chopped almonds ; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, stir them into the mixture, butter a mould, fill it, and bake for one hour or there- abouts. Serve with wine sauce or any light custard. Croutes aux Amandes.—Make a smooth paste with 30Z. to 40Z. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, two tablespoonfuls of wheat meal, one of castor sugar, and a little cinnamon to taste ; moisten this with three or four tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir in the whites of three or four eggs beaten to a froth. Spread this paste over slices of stale milk rolls cut moderately thick, then fry in boiling butter, holding them the while in a flat strainer ; whilst still quite hot, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon or not, as desired, and serve at once. (Any kind of sweet mixture fashioned according to the above recipe can be used in the same way.) Kaiser Nudeln.—Mix together Jib. of flour with about three-quarters of a pint of milk, beat into this four whole eggs and a little salt; roll out this paste rather flat, but not thin as is usual with pastry, bake it on a buttered tin ; when it has risen cut it into strips to form the nudeln, bake the strips in hot butter, and serve with a sprinkling of sugar and cinnamon or other flavouring. Biscuit Pudding.—Rub about Jib. of loaf sugar inSweets, Tarts, etc. 221 lumps on the rind of a lemon, pound the former, and soak it for half an hour in the yolks of half a dozen eggs, after which beat all thoroughly together with a heaped table- spoonful of dried and sifted flour and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the whites separately to a stiff froth, add them to the other mixture, whipping very gently the while, put all into a buttered mould, and bake in the oven till a good colour. This can be served alone or with custard. Where eggs are plentiful, it will do no harm to put in a couple more than here indicated. Equal Weight Pudding.—Take four eggs (or more, as necessity dictates), their weight of flour, butter, and castor sugar, and the rind of half a lemon chopped very fine. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, then gradually add the flour and the yolks of the eggs, and continue the stirring evenly, and always in the same direction, for about an hour. Whip the whites to a froth, and stir these in gently and briskly with the rest of the mixture, and the grated rind. Have ready a buttered mould sprinkled with flour, pour in the mixture, and bake in a hot oven till a good golden colour. Bice Pudding.—Boil in some milk a quarter of a pound of good rice until it has swelled and become quite tender, without being reduced to a pulp; soak a small milk roll in a little warm milk, to this add 2oz. of butter beaten to a cream, add all this to the rice, after which stir in gradually a tablespoonful of blanched and pounded almonds, a few chopped pistachios, one tablespoonful of stoned raisins, sugar to taste, a little grated lemon rind, and three whole eggs. Beat this gently till all the ingredients are thoroughly well amalgamated, have ready a buttered mould, sprinkle it with chopped almonds, put in the mixture, and bake in the oven for one hour to one hour and a half. Another Kind.—Boil the rice as above, let it get cold, whisk the whites of two eggs to a snow, into222 Dainty Meals for Small Households this beat the yolks of one or two, stir in a little grated lemon rind, and some castor sugar to taste ; mix this with the cold rice, butter a mould, and either line it with puff pastry or sprinkle it very thickly with breadcrumbs, put in the mixture, and bake as before. This can be served with custard, cream, or wine sauce. Semolina Pudding.—Boil about a pint of cream (or equal quantities of cream and good fresh milk) ; in this dissolve 30Z. of semolina ; when the mixture has thickened, stir in about 30Z. of fresh butter ; let the mixture cool, beat into it the yolks of three or four eggs, sugar to taste, and grated lemon rind or other flavouring; add the whites lightly beaten to a froth, and bake in a buttered mould sprinkled with chopped almonds, or lined with puff paste until it is done. Crepes (Pancakes Wafer).—Beat up four eggs with two tablespoonfuls of fine dry flour, the same quantity of cream, ioz. of pounded and sifted white sugar, and foz. of nutmeg, grated. Rub the frying-pan with a piece of muslin containing a lump of butter; pour in the batter so that it covers the bottom of the pan as thinly as possible, fry on one side only; lay the pancake on a very hot dish, sprinkle it with powdered sugar (flavoured or not), upon this lay the next pancake, and so 6n, till all are done. Serve very hot. Cream.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with half a pint of thick cream, and 2oz. of sugar; rub the pan as before, fry the pancakes thin, and serve as above. Pink.—Boil a large beetroot till quite tender, peel it and pound it in a mortar; beat it up with the yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour and three of cream; sweeten to taste, add a wineglassful of brandy, and half a nutmeg grated. Stir well for half an hour, fry the pancakes in butter, and garnish with preserved fruit.223 Sweets, Tarts, etc. New England.—Beat together one pint of cream, five tablespoonfuls of fine flour, the yolks of seven and the whites of four eggs, and a pinch of salt. Fry this batter very thin in hot butter, and serve as above. au lait Aigre (Sour Milk).—Take some good soured milk, one small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and the same of cream of tartar, beat into this from three to five eggs according to the quantity required, and enough flour to make a suitable batter. Heat some butter in a pan over the fire, and allow one tablespoonful of the mixture for each pancake; these must be served very hot, and can be sprinkled with sugar, or with salt and grated cheese as a savoury. Beignets aux Oranges (Orange Fritters).—Soak some quarters of orange (freed from pips) in some sugar syrup ; drain the latter off, and fry a good colour in ordinary fritter batter. Sambaglione.—Put into a saucepan about six new-laid eggs, and two sherry-glassfuls of Madeira or old white wine, about 30Z. of sugar, and a small pinch of powdered cinnamon ; stir this quickly over a brisk fire with a small whisk until the saucepan is filled with the froth ; serve very quickly in custard glasses, which must already contain a tablespoonful of thick clotted cream. Biscuits Honore.—Put into a basin about 40Z. of castor sugar flavoured with vanilla and the yolks of four fresh eggs ; work this to a white froth, then add about a tablespoonful of chopped almonds, the same quantity of pistachios, and about 30Z. of well dried and sifted fine flour; to this add very lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a snow, and about a tablespoonful of melted butter. Put this mixture into a buttered mould, or into several small ones ; bake in a moderate oven and serve cold. Genevoise.—Put into a basin two new-laid eggs with224 Dainty Meals for Small Households 40Z. of castor sugar flavoured as above; work this mixture over the fire with a small whisk until it presents a very frothy appearance, add to this very gradually Jib. of fine wheat flour, and about 30Z. of butter slightly melted. Put into a mould as above, and bake in the same way. Creme au Cafe (Coffee Mould).—Beat up six whole eggs, and into these stir a teacupful of strong black coffee ; have ready a pint or a little more, half cream, half milk, and sweetened to taste, and when this custard boils stir in the eggs off the fire ; add the gelatine, put the vessel over the fire, stir till the contents boil ; pour it into a mould, and serve when set. Pouding aux Chataignes (Chestnut Mould).—Peel, skin, and boil some chestnuts until tender, pound them; make a thin syrup with water and sugar, into this stir the chestnuts until a consistent and smooth paste has been formed. Put it into a mould rinsed out in fresh water, and let it stand on ice or till cold ; turn it out, burn it all over with a red-hot shovel, by passing the latter very lightly all over the surface of the pudding, and serve with any kind of custard or sweet sauce, or, better still, with whipped cream all round. Blanc-Manger.—Blanch and peel a pound of almonds, stir them over the fire with about a pint of cream (or equal parts of cream and milk), vanilla to taste, and a little sugar. Strain this through a muslin, dissolve about an ounce of gelatine, add it to the custard, stirring all the time and until the custard is cold; add some chopped pistachios. Put this into a mould previously rinsed in cold water, and stand on ice or in a cold place till set. Serve with a compote of any kind of fruit.CHAPTER XV. SAVOURIES. This subject is a difficult one to treat, because it is almost impossible to classify some articles as essential savouries. There has been, as I have stated in the earlier pages of this book, some confusion created with regard to savouries, and this has arisen from a comparison with the dishes which on the Continent go under the name of hors d'oeuvre. However, I hope that my readers have grasped that, whilst the latter are supposed to act as appetizers, and are therefore served at the beginning of the dinner, the former in England are intended to form a transition course between sweets and dessert, dessert implying a change of wines. Hence, without going in for an ex- tensive list of isolated recipes, anything in the shape of hot, salt, or otherwise highly seasoned preparations, whether fried, stuffed, gratine, or devilled, &c, can be ranged under the same title. Before giving instructions for such things, for cheese fondues, &c, I may as well insert here useful ways of making aspic jelly, which is needed for almost every course, and which is very frequently a necessary garnish or set-off to savouries of all kinds, and to cold dishes. Aspic Jelly.—To make one pint of jelly, take two pounds of the shin of beef, one calf's foot, and half a pound of bones; put them into the stock pot with about one quart of water, some thyme, a couple of bay leaves, garlic, shallot, three or four large onions, a bunch of parsley, salt, pepper, Q226 Dainty Meals for Small Households three or four sprigs of tarragon, eight or ten cloves, two or three large carrots, the same quantity of turnips, half a dozen leeks, and let all boil very slowly for at least six hours. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and let the broth stand aside to cool; remove all the fat which will rise to the surface as soon as the broth becomes cold. Put the latter back over the fire, have ready the whites of three eggs, with their shells, previously whisked to a froth. Put them into the broth, and beat the whole mixture thoroughly until it boils ; at this moment take off the saucepan, and strain again through a fine hair sieve; stand it aside to cool, and the result will be the most delicious jelly imaginable ; excellent for invalids. For garnishing use the following, for which I am indebted to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, of 30, Mortimer Street, London, W., and I may as well take this opportunity of recommending Marshall's leaf gelatine as the best to use for all purposes. The aspic jelly is produced by this method: Put into a pan 2 ozs. of best leaf gelatine, a quart of hot water, a dessertspoonful of salt, the juice of a lemon, one bay leaf, a teaspoonful of good brown vinegar, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a small onion sliced, twenty mixed peppercorns and allspice, and the whites and shells of two eggs. Let this all boil up together, and then run it through a jelly bag wrung out of warm water. Fondues and Cheese in various ways: leuchateloise.— Put into a silver saucepan, or . chafing dish (one that is made of iron and lined with enamel will do as well), a small lump of very fresh butter ; have ready sliced lib. of good rich cheese, stir it slowly and by degrees into the melting butter, then add gradually a tumblerful of French white wine, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Have ready a hot water dish ; just before serving put into the fondue a dessertspoonful of kirshwasser, and send the saucepan up to table standing on a napkin spread over the hotSavouries 227 dish. It must be eaten at once, and ought to be made at table. Montagnarde.—Use good rich cheese. For six persons, cut up 2lb. of the same as before ; heat Jib. of butter in a small pipkin, or, as stated above, in one of the little silver saucepans sold for the purpose ; stand it over the fire, add three-quarters of a pint of French wine ; let the contents of the saucepan slightly cool before putting in the cheese, during which operation it must again be held over the fire ; when the cheese is dissolved mix ioz. of flour with the sixth part of a pint of white wine, stir it into the saucepan till quite smooth, add two teaspoonfuls of kirshwasser, and serve quickly as before. Bernoise. — Grate fib. of cheese, crush it thoroughly with four yolks of eggs, and stir in three- quarters of a pint of fresh cream, one teaspoonful of kirshwasser, salt and nutmeg ; melt a small piece of butter as above, stir in the mixture over the fire till smooth, and serve. Gateau de Fromage (Cheese Tart).—Make some good pastry, roll it out not too thin, and over it slice some cheese; break four eggs in a basin, stir vigorously, adding a tablespoonful or two of cream and seasoning as before. Pour this mixture over the cheese and bake for half an hour in a hot oven. Poupelin.—Boil in a saucepan nearly half a pint of water, add a pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, and 30Z. of butter ; when the latter is quite hot, stir in about 40Z. of flour ; stand off the fire whilst stirring till the mixture is smooth ; then put the saucepan over the fire again for about five minutes; again take it off, and two minutes later work in gradually one whole egg, the yolks of two, two handfuls of grated Parmesan, 30Z. of sliced Gruyere, and lastly the whipped whites of two228 Dainty Meals for Small Households eggs. Have ready a well-buttered tourtiere, and on this arrange the paste, forming a sort of crown ; brush some yolk of egg all over it, and place upon it at intervals a thin slice of Gruyere cut with a shape. Bake in a fairly hot oven for half an hour. There are so many delicious ways of preparing cheese for entrees and savouries, that it is impossible to give an exhaustive list of recipes. The ordinary fondues can be slightly varied with a little experience. The addition of truffles or mushrooms, for instance, either as a garniture or as an actual component, makes a pleasant change. The great thing is to make them very quickly, and to serve them with scarcely one moment's delay. It is essentially a foreign dish ; for that reason probably Con- tinental cheeses are the best to use. The most common is one called Fontina, which is nothing but Gruyere in its fresh and immaturely soft state. But ordinary Gruyere can always be substituted for the real thing by soaking it previously in some milk for an hour or so. Welsh Rarebit.—Grate some old Cheddar or Gloucester cheese in the proportion of two heaped tablespoonfuls for each person, put it into a pipkin or small saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut to every two table- spoonfuls of cheese, a pinch of cayenne, salt and pepper to taste, a little mustard and a dessertspoonful of ale or stout. Stir over the fire till the mixture attains the consistency of thick cream. Meanwhile prepare suitable slices of hot buttered toast on very hot plates, pour the mixture over these and serve at once. (This is also a suitable chafing-dish preparation.) Swiss Tartlets.—Make a light pastry with some flour, a little butter, and half a tumblerful of nearly lukewarm salted water ; let this stand in a warm place for a little while, covered with a folded flannel ; fold the paste into229 Savouries four, covering it with fresh butter here and there, roll it out once or twice ; with it line some small tartlet tins, fill with cream whipped rather stiff with some grated cheese, bake a good colour, and serve very hot. Sardines au Gratin.—Split up the sardines underneath the body from head to tail, remove the head and the backbone, but do not break the fish, fill them with a fish quenelle mixture, sprinkled with finely-chopped herbs, season well, and press them again into their original shape. Have ready a fireproof china dish, and in it brown two large tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms and onions in oil, arrange the sardines over the latter mixture, cover them with chopped parsley and mush- rooms ; sprinkle them thickly with breadcrumbs, cover with a little oil, and add three or four tablespoonfuls of white cooking wine, set it over the fire till the liquor boils, and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen or twenty minutes. Just before serving in the same dish, pour some tomato sauce over the top. Cro&tes Marguerite.—Boil some eggs hard, throw them into cold water so that the white may not be discoloured, shell them and cut them into slices. Chop up some parsley, chives, and a sprig of tarragon leaves ; pound them in a mortar previously rubbed with a little garlic, with sufficient butter to form a smooth paste. Make sandwiches with two slices of the hard-boiled eggs, spread these with the paste ; have ready some fancifully shaped pieces of crisp thin fried toast, butter them, put a sandwich on each piece, sprinkle with cayenne and salt ; bake or fry them quickly to make them very hot, and serve. Champignons Farcis (Stuffed Mushrooms).—Take a few average-sized mushrooms, peel and trim them ; chop up the trimmings and a couple of the mushrooms whole with a small onion, and a sprig of parsley and tarragon. Sautez230 Dainty Meals for Small Households this mixture in a little butter, add a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne, and a few drops of cream if available. Lay the mush- rooms in a gratin or small baking dish top downwards, spread some of the mixture on each one, bake for ten minutes and serve very hot, either with or without gravy ; or place each mushroom on a piece of fried toast the size of the mushroom. Crofttes de Homard.—Pound the flesh of a lobster with a little cream, salt, Nepaul pepper, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, a drop or two of Maggi essence, and a table- spoonful of mayonnaise ; heat the mixture aic bain-marie and serve very hot on fried bread. Or serve in little paper cases, with two or three stoned olives by way of foundation. It can also be made entirely in a gratin dish, or could be used as an entree.CHAPTER XVI. a. COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, b. CHAFING DISH RECIPES. It is perhaps rather unusual to consider the above head- ings in an ordinary cookery book ; but the insertion of various little-known theories and hints has been the object at which I have aimed in this volume ; my chief wish being not so much to enumerate recipes as to explain the reason for which many instructions given in culinary works do not always succeed according to expectations. The making of coffee, whether for breakfast or after- dinner purposes, is a sore subject in many families ; my advice is : make it at the table. My readers will forthwith object that this is either not convenient or otherwise impracticable, in which case I can only say that the cook must follow the over-simple instructions to carry out the recipes properly. Coffee.—Whatever people may say to the contrary, there is nothing so productive of satisfactory results as roasting coffee at home, and once adopted the plan will be retained without doubt. It is a mistaken idea that the process involves much trouble. A roaster is the first desideratum. There are various kinds, all of which have some good quality. From long personal experience I would recommend the ordinary French machine, which consists of an iron cylinder let into a stand, and revolving by means of a handle, while underneath there is a spirit lamp. The apparatus is made in different sizes (the232 Dainty Meals for Small Households smallest holding lib. of berries), and its great merit lies in the fact that the roasting is regulated by the amount of spirit which the lamp can hold, i.e. that if the given quantity of berries is put into the cylinder, and the handle is turned evenly and according to directions, the contents should be roasted to perfection when the spirit has burned out. This machine is generally sold by good ironmongers, but it is to be had at the Household Supply Company's, 119, New Bond Street, W. The Diable Rousset introduced by the same firm is still more simple. In France, especially in county places, where the beverage is often proverbially good, the roasting is done in a cassette en cuivre, viz. a copper-lined pan such as they also use for boiling milk. It stands down right on to the fire ; and in this utensil the berries are stirred with a wooden spoon over a clear fire till they are done. The great reason for recommending home roasting is that the secret of obtaining a good beverage lies in using freshly roast and ground coffee ; for that reason, too, it is well to choose a small machine. The process takes about fifteen to twenty minutes, is clean, and can be done at any time and by anybody, without the slightest trouble. In roasting, the stirring or turning must be quite slow at first, and the speed can be gradually and moderately increased. From time to time during the process the apparatus should be lifted up and shaken to well mix the berries. When done, turn them out into a wooden bowl, if possible, cool them rapidly by quick movement in the open air, after which shut them up at once, in a well-closing tin canister. The berries should be a rich dark brown, slightly moist, and quite fragrant. Do not grind till wanted. Mocha, Bourbon, and Martinique coffees are most generally used in France, mixed in equal quantities ; but that is naturally a matter of taste. For cafe au lait, two233 Coffee, Chocolate tablespoonfuls of powder are the ordinary allowance for every breakfast-cupful of water. Put the powder into the filtering part of the pot, and pour gradually over this the required quantity of absolutely boiling water. The operation must take place on some suitably hot stand, as the infusion would otherwise get cold, and, of course, it must not boil ; or the pot can stand in a vessel of boiling water whilst it is being prepared. After dinner cafe noir is made in the same manner, but should be much stronger, and the quantities must depend to a great extent on the general taste. Five tablespoonfuls of powder to four coffee-cupfuls of water make a very good beverage. For Turkish coffee a different apparatus is used, and the drink is generally made on the table when wanted in a plain pot fitting on a tripod and a spirit lamp. The cups are diminutive. Put in one teaspoonful of the best freshly-ground powder for each person, and a pinch over " for the pot." Nearly fill with boiling water, let it boil up three times, lifting the coffee-pot up promptly as the contents bubble up. After the third time, add about a teaspoonful of cold water, and let it stand a few moments to settle. Pour out carefully, and there will be no sediment in the cup. This is the real Levantine beverage, into which no chicory is ever admitted under any consideration. In a great many families on the Continent this is altogether an unknown quantity ; and, indeed, the coffee is much better without it. However, some people prefer an admixture ; in such a case, one spoonful of chicory to two of the real powder is a fair allowance, and that can be increased or decreased according to liking. As to breakfast, the cafe au lait is an easy matter, the principal question being what kind of pot to use. The ordinary French percolator is an excellent apparatus, and its make at once indicates the method to be followed.234 Dainty Meals for Small Households The percolators are sold in various sizes according to requirements ; the little container in the upper portion being filled with ground coffee, the requisite amount of boiling water must be poured in gradually on to the coffee, until the lower pot is full. Two things must, however, be borne in mind by the cook : first, the percolator must be thoroughly well heated with boiling water ; secondly, the coffee-pot must stand in a hot place, or the contents will be cold. At the same time it is obvious, owing to the fact that coffee cannot be enjoyed unless it is very hot, that all so- called table apparatus should appeal to all those who wish to enjoy their breakfast. The easiest to deal with is the " Excelsior" Cafetiere, or the French Cafetiere (percolator shape with spirit lamp) sold by the Household Supply Co., 119, New Bond Street. I have already ex- plained the working of the percolator ; that of the "Excelsior" machine is more satisfactory still, owing to its simplicity. The powder is placed in the retainer, is fastened down by a well-closing lid, the body of the pot is filled with water (preferably hot). This is set boiling by the action of the spirit lamp, flows through the coffee retainer, and produces the best results. The milk used for cafe au lait should of course be boiling. Chocolate makes a pleasant change for breakfast ; for this purpose a good quality unsweetened is the best, as so many people are averse to sugar. Foreign brands, such as Lindt, Suchard, Menier, and English makes are all available ; one division of the cake is usually reckoned for one cup. Grate it, dissolve it in a little water, put it over the fire in a pipkin or other suitable utensil, and add the necessary quantity of milk, stirring briskly all the time until it boils. Send it to table in a hot jug, or if available in the chocolatiere (see Household Supply Co.). This too should be previously heated ; the advantage ofChafing Dish Recipes 235 the chocolatilre lies in the fact that the implement con- sidered necessary to the correct manipulation of this beverage is forthcoming, and the beverage can be stirred by its means, just before it is poured out. Finally, I come to the use of the chafing dish, which only belongs to this chapter in so far as breakfast or supper dishes are concerned ; it will, however, be specially useful for all kinds of fondues, Welsh rarebit, and savouries which require to be served straight from the fire as it were. It is not only a very 11 sightly" utensil, essentially suited for table use, but can be adapted to many other culinary purposes ; it is of American origin, and a large stock is kept at the Household Supply Company. The following American recipes were specially written for this dish :— Scrambled Eggs.—Six eggs, gill of cream, tablespoonful of butter, salt, pepper. Put the butter into the chafing dish. When hot add cream and eggs, season with salt and pepper. Stir constantly for two or three minutes. Celeried Oysters.—A wineglassful of sherry, one table- spoonful of minced celery, one teaspoonful of butter, salt, and pepper. Put the butter into the chafing dish, and when melted add the oysters and the celery. Season with salt and pepper. Cook three minutes, add a few drops of sherry and cook two minutes. Serve on toast. Oyster Pan Roast.—One dozen large oysters, one table- spoonful of butter, half a pint of oyster juice, two slices of toast, salt and pepper. Put the butter in the chafing dish. As it creams, add the oysters and juice, season with salt and pepper. Cover and cook two minutes. Serve on hot toast moistened with gravy, Scolloped Oysters.—Some oysters, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one gill of cream, two tablespoonfuls of pounded dry biscuits, pepper, salt. Put the butter and cream in the chafing dish. Drain the oysters and lay in layers236 Dainty Meals for Small Households sprinkled with pounded dry biscuit, another layer of oysters, more pounded biscuit, a little butter. Season with pepper and salt. Cook from five to ten minutes, covered. Another way.—Drain the juice from a dozen oysters thoroughly, butter the chafing dish, and when very hot place the oysters in single layers. When browned on one side turn them and keep on adding a little butter. This, with the juice of the oysters, forms a skin in the chafing dish ; season with pepper and salt, and when browned serve very hot. Clams a la Newburg.—One pint of clams, two table- spoonfuls of butter, one gill sherry, half a pint of cream, yolks of two eggs, one small teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne pepper. Trim off the tough part, being careful not to cut into the soft portion. Melt the butter over boiling water, stirring constantly ; when creamy, put in the sherry. Beat together the yolks of the eggs and the cream, and add gradually, stirring all the time. As soon as it is all mixed, turn in the clams, and cook until plump. This recipe will do for cockles and mussels. Shrimps.—-Half a pint of shrimps (fresh or canned), one tablespoonful of tomato sauce, two tablespoonfuls of butter, half an onion (grated), half a teacupful of boiled rice, one gill of cream. Put the butter into the chafing dish ; when hot stir in the onion and rice, add the cream, shrimp and tomato sauce ; stir until it boils, then let it simmer for five minutes.INDEX A Aluminium, 17 Andouilles Fumees, 150 Apples, Baked, 218 Apple Pudding, 218 ,, Snow, 218 Artichokes, 195 Asparagus, 197 Aspic Jelly, 225 Au Bouillon (Fish), 91 Au Gratin (Fish), 91 Au Vin (Fish), 91 B Bain Marie, 15 Batter, 212 Beans, 187 Bechaniel, 59 Beef, 124 Beefsteak, 129 Beetroot, 193 Bhugias, 199 Biscuits Honore, 223 Biscuit Pudding, 220 Blanc-Manger, 224 Blanquette de Veau, 118 Bceuf Bouilli, 124 Boiling, 8 Bouille-a-Baisse, 48 Bouillon a la minute, 31 „ Maigre, 32 „ aux Nouilles, 36 Brains, 111 Braisiere, 16 Braising, 12 Bread Crumbs, 19 „ Pudding, 220 „ Soup, 37 Breast of Veal, 144 Brown Flour Soup, 37 ,, Sauce, 57 C Cabbage, 180 Cafe au lait, 233 Calves' Head, 120 Carp, 83 Carrots, 189 Cauliflower, 190 Cervelas, 150 Chafing Dish, 235 Chaud Froid, 171 Chestnut Mould, 224 Chicken, 158 Chocolate, 234 „ Omelet, 218 „ Pudding, 217 ,, Souffle, 217 Clams, 236 Clarified Fat, 21 Cod, 95 Coffee, 231 „ Mould, 224 Consomme, 29 Ordinaire, 29 ,, for Preserving, Cosenza & Co., 109 Coulis, 58 Country Captain, 122 Court-bouillon, 11Index 238 Crayfish, 102 „ Soup, 46 Cream Soup, 35 Croutes aux Amandes, 222 „ de Homard, 230 Marguerite, 229 Cucumbers, 193 „ Stuffed, 116 Cuisine Bourgeoise, 1 D Dandelion, 178 Diable Rousset, 17 Driessauces, 60 Ducks, 167 E Earthenware, 17 Eels, 85 Eel Soup, 49 Eggs, 123, 235 Endive Soup, 41 Entrec6te, 130 Entree, 109 Equal Weight Pudding, 221 Espagnole, 57 Essence of Anchovies, 73 F Fish, 74 Flavouring, 73 Fondue, 226 Fricandeau, 145 Fricasse, 161 Fritters, 220 Friture, 80 Frogs, 108 Fromage d'ltalie, 154 Fruit Tarts, 213 Frying, 10 „ Pan, 18 G Galantine, 146 Game, 167 Garlic, 19 Gas, cooking by, 9 Gateau aux Fruits, 213 Gauffres, 216 Genevoise, 223 Good King Henry, 180 Goose, 166 Gratin, 10 Grayling, 89 H Hams, 155 Hare, 168 ,, Soup, 50 Herbs, 53 Herrings, IOI Hints, 19 Hirschbraten, 175 Household Supply Co., 232 J Jus, 30 K Kaiser Nudeln, 220 Kedgeree, 121 Kidneys, 118 L Lampreys, 98 Leeks, 181 Leek Soup, 42 Leg of Mutton, 136 „ „ Stuffed, 136 Lettuces, 183 Liaison, 55 „ a l'allemande, 55 a l'ceuf, 56Index Liaison au roux, 55 Liver, 134, 145 Lobster, 104 M Macedoine, 206 Mackerel, 99 Maggi Consomme, 32 ,, Essence, 33 „ Soups, 33 Mariniere, 78 Marmite, 17 Marquis, 109 Marrow Soup, 34 Matelote, 78 Mayonnaise, 70 Milan Cakes, 217 Mince Pies, 215 Mock Turtle Soup, 47 Mullet, 94 Mulligatawny Soup, 48 Mushrooms, 229 Mushroom Soup, 45 Mutton Cutlets, 115, 117 en Cassolette, 116 O Omelets, 122 Onions, 188 Ox Heart, 134 „ Tail, 113 „ Tongue, 112, 131 Oysters, 235 Oyster Soup, 36 P Pancakes, 222 Partridge, 169 Pastry, 210 Pattikin Eggs, 123 Pearl Barley Soup, 38 Peas, 193 Pea Soup, 37, 42 Petit Sale, 152 Pheasant, 172 Pickled Pork, 152 Pigeons, 164 Pig's Ears, 153 „ Feet, 153 „ Tails, 153 Pike, 81 Plum Pudding, 215 Poached Egg Soup, 35 Pork, 148 Potatoes Soufflees, 200 Pot-au-feu, 26 Poultry, 158 Puff Pastry, 212 Q Quails, 170 Quatre Epices, 53 R Red Cabbage, 181 ,, Deer, 176 Refrigerator, 18 Rehbraten, 175 Rice Pudding, 221 ,, Soup, 34 Rissoles. 116 Roasting, 9 S Saddle of Mutton, 137 Salads, 203 Salami, 151 Salmon, 91 Salsify, 191 Salt Bricelets, 216 Sambaglione, 223 Sardines, 229 Sauces, 51 Sauce Aigre, 62 ,, a la Creme, 71 ,, „ „ Aigre, 62 ,, Diable, 72 ,, „ Gelee, 72 „ ,, Moutarde, 63Index 240 Sauce au Beurre, 67 53 Jus, 65 ,, ,, Vin, 69 aux Capres, 64 ,, Champignon, 68 ,, Ecrevisses, 67 Harengs, 62, 71 Huitres, 69 „ Oignons, 68 „ ,, Sardines, 64, 69 „ ,, Tomates, 67 Blanche, 63 Blonde, 60 ,, de Reserve, 58 ,, Genevoise, 61 Hollandaise, 65 „ Horseradish, 69, 72 ,, Italienne, 67 „ Maitre d'H6tel, 66 Mayonnaise, 70 Meres, 56 Neuchatel, 61 ,, Piquante, 67, 71 „ Poulette, 66 „ Ravigote, 71 ,, Robert, 67 „ Rousse, 66 ,, Saxonne, 64 Tartare, 70 „ Utile, 68 Sausages, 149 Saute, 10 Savouries, 225 Semolina Pudding, 222 „ Soup, 38 Sheep's Tongues, 115 Shrimps, 236 Simplex Bain Marie, 15 Sirloin of Beef, 128 Sole, 100 Sorrel Soup, 41 Snails, 106 Soups, 32 Soupe a la Bataille, 43 aux Racines, 44 ,, Soyer, 41 ,, Spinach, 40 Spinach, 186 Stewing, 11 Stock, 10, 26 Stock Gravy, 30 „ Pot, 14 Sucking Pig, 154 Sweets, 210 Sweetbread, 118, 145 Swiss Cakes, 216 „ Tartlets, 228 T Tapioca Soup, 38 Theory of Cooking, 8 Tomatoes, 192 Tomato Soup, 40 Tripe, 113 Trout, 93 Turkey, 163 Turkish Coffee, 233 Turnip Soup, 41 U Utensils, 13 V Veal, 139 „ Broth, 31, 37 ,, Cutlets, 119 Veerasawmy, no Vegetables, 178 Vegetable Marrow, 182 ,, Rack, 15 „ ^ Soup, 39 Veloute, 57 Venison, 172 Vierge, 78 W Welsh Rarebit, 228 White Flour Soup, 37 „ Soup, 35 Whiting, 89 Wild Boar, 176 Gilbert & Rivington, Linrft&.\Slt ItjJifihHouse, Clerkenwell, London. LIBRARYUniversal Cookery and Food Exhibition, London, 1897, awarded Gold Medal for Indian Specialities. Hors Concours, Cookery and Food Exhibition^ 1899. "Jfizam" ~ ~ CURRY POWDER Absolutely Pure and Genuine. KINO OF CURRY POWDERS. CURRY PASTE Makes delicious Fish, Game and Poultry Curries. "JfizcLin" ~ MULLIGATAWNY PASTE Unequalled in Flavour. Appreciated by Anglo-Indians and Connoisseurs. VEERASAWMY & CO. Native Indian Merchants, RYE LANE, LONDON, S.E.The HOUSEHOLD SUPPLY and - - * - ATMOSPHERIC CHURN CO, Ltd. Depot of Inventions. THE 11 EXCELSIOR 99 CAFETIERE for making PURE and FRAGRANT COFFEE. THE PATENT DIABLE ROUSSET for Roasting POTATOES or CHESTNUTS without an oven. Also for roasting Coffee, M The Hygienic Vegetable Rack h~ Registered No. 312,700. "CLEANLY and CONVENIENT."— The Queen. Special sizes made to order. No. 1.— 30 inches high 18 wide 8£ ,, back to front 11/e. No. 2.— 36 inches high 24 wide 12 back to front 16/6. AMERICAN • CHAFING • DISHES. ICE CREAM FREEZER makes Ice Creams in six minutes ready for Table. AMERICAN REFRIGERATORS. KiSICH FIREPROOF CHINA and CLAY WARE. CASSEROLES, MARMITES, &c All kinds of Foreign Utensils not in stock procured to order. CATALOGUE FREE. 119, NEW BOND STREET,W.