(3lnsc}ow TnntrerijitY) Xibrar^ Presented by Dr W.Qo McIntyre , 1983/84 Book No 0025799 10114 0002579911 1Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive in 2015 Iittps://arcliive.org/details/b21467742_0007ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAKY OF MEDICINE AND SURGERYPrinted by Neill & Co., Limited, Edinburgh, FOR WILLIAM GREEN & SONS. March 1908.EDINBURGH V LONDON 5^ 1 GREENS ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DiaiONAKf OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY vol: VII NERIIN-PHYSIOLOGY (TISSUES) WIllIAM GREEN C SONSi GLASGOW UNIVERSITY I iuBRARYEDITORIAL NOTE This volume (the seventh) of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery contains 1322 subject headings, and carries the work from Neriin to Physiology. Besides containing important monographs on Nerves, Nose, Paralysis, Peritoneum, etc. (which have appeared in the Encyclopaedia Medico)^ it has been furnished with a new article on Pharmacology, with the first half of a large paper on Physiology, and with numerous short contributions dealing with subjects of interest, such as the Ophthalmo-Reaction and Opsonins. Certain subjects, in which there has been marked progress during recent years, have been revised—e.g. the article on Diseases OF THE Pancreas ; and new paragraphs have been added (under Parasites) dealing with trypano- somes, with the sjyirochcefe pallida, with piroplasma, and with cytoryctes. There are fifty-seven articles of more than 1000 words in length. These vary much in size, the contribution on Paralysis covering sixty-six pages, while Opium occupies only two pages. Noteworthy papers which are found in this group are those on Injuries and Diseases of Peripherdl Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis, Neuralgia, Neurasthenia, Occupation Neuroses, Diseases of the Nexv-horn Infant, Night Terrors, Nursery Hygiene, Nursing, Obesity, Affections of the Ocular Muscles, Injuries and Diseases of the (Esophagus, Ophthalmoplegia, Diseases of the Orbit, Osteo- Ai-thropathies, Osteomalacia, Otorrhoea, Diseases of the Ovaries, Cleft Palate and Hare-Lip, Diseases of the Panci-eas, Paranoia, Parasites, Disorders of the Parotid Gland, Pediculosis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor, Pempihigus, Surgical Affections of the Penis, Diseases of the Pericardium, Pharma- cology, Physiognomy, and Physiology. Several subjects are discussed in sections—viz., The Diseases of the Nose (in ten sections). Diseases of the Peritoneum (in four), and Diseases of the Pharynx (in five). Of articles of less than 1000 words but of at least ten lines in length, there are seventy-five. These include paragraphs dealing with Nessler's Reagent, Neurofibromatosis, Neuron, Neutrophile Granules, Nitric Acid, Nitrites, Niti'ogen, Notification, Novocaine, Nuclein, Nutmeg, Nux Vomica, Nystagmus, Obliquity, (Edema, Offensive, Ohm, Oils, define, Olive Oil, Ophthalmo-Reaction, Ovari- otomy, Oxalic Acid, Oxygen, Pacchionian Bodies, Pagefs Disease, Palpitation, Pangenesis, Paracen- tesis, Paraffin, Paraldehyde, Paregoric, Pepper, Peppermint, Pepsin, Percolation, Petechice, Pharyn- gocele, Phenacetin, and Phosphorus. Short articles (of less than ten lines in length) are present in this volume to the luimber of 1190, and, as may be imagined, deal with a great variety of subjects. There are paragraphs in which medical terms are defined, and others in which a few words of description suffice to illustrate a morbid state or to make plain a physiological phenomenon. Some of the subjects considered in these short articles may be named : Neroli Oil, Nerve Storms, Nervi Erigentes, Nervosism, Nestle'sEDITORIAL NOTE VI Food, Nettleship's Dots, Neuber's Method, NemaanViS Corpuscles, Neural, Neurapophysis, Neurec- tasis, Netorenteric Canal, Neurine, Neuroglia, Neuromere, Neuromimesis, Neuronal, Neuroporus, Neusser's Granules, Newton's Rings, Nictitating Membrane, Nightblain, Nikiforoff's Method, Nissl's Bodies, Nitro-Bacteria, Nodding Spasm, Normoblast, Norwegian Itch, Nostrum, Notomelus, Nova- spirin, Nubility, Nuel's Space, Nuhn's Gland, Nunn's Corpuscles, Nutation, Nyctalopia, Nysten's Law, Obelion, Obex, Obligate, Obsession, Ochronosis, Octipara, Odontoloxia, (Edipism, Oertel's Method, (Estrus, Officinal, Oinomania, Oleate, Oleomargarine, Oliguria, Omodynia, Omphalopagus, Oncology, Oolemma, Oosperm, Open Spaces Act, Ophryosis, Opisthion, Opodeldoc, Opotherapy, Opsigamy, Optimum, Ora Serrata, Oroya Fever, Orthodiagraphy, Osmic Acid, Os Tribasilare, Osteo- copic, Otocephaly, Otopiesis, Oxyblepsia, Oxymel, Pachycephaly, Paget's Disease, Pail-System, Painter's Colic, Palatinoids, Palingenesis, Paludism, Panaris, Panmixia, Pannus, Parablast, Paracolon, Parcesthesia, Paramastitis, Parametritis, Parasigmatism, Parasternal, Paresis, Parity, Paropsis, Parrot's Disease, Pars, Paste, Patagium, Pawlik's Folds, Pectoriloquy, Pelotherapy, Pentose, Peptides, Perforating Ulcer, Perilymph, Peritomy, Perles, Perocephalus, Pertussis, Pes Anserinus, Phantom, Pharyngoxerosis, Phenol, Phledonia, Phocomelus, Phylaxins, and Phyma. This volume contains nearly tivo thousand three hundred cross-references, which ought to prove of great service to the reader in enabling him to pass from one subject to another and an allied one, and so to have the stores of information in the Encyclopedia and Dictionary within his easy reach. J. W. BALLANTYNE. February 18, 1908.vii CONTENTS THE CHIEF ARTICLES IN VOLUME VII., WITH THEIR AUTHORS Nerves, Peripheral, Injuries and Diseases of. W. Thorburn, F.R.C.S., and R. T. Williamson, M.D., F.R.C.P. ....... 1 Neurasthenia. Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D. ...... 34 Neuroses, Occupation. Wilfred Harris, M.D., F.R.C.P. ..... 47 New-born Infant, Diseases of. J. W. Ballantyne, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. . . .51 Night Terrors. J. A. Coutts, M.D., F.R.C.P. ...... 63 Nose, Examination of. E. Cresswell Baber, M.B., M.R.C.S. . . . .67 Anesthesia of. W. Jobson Horne, M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P. . . . .74 Nasal Orifices and Septum. Greville M'Donald, M.D. .75 Acute Inflammations. Herbert Tilley, M.D., F.R.C.S. . .80 Chronic Inflammations. E. Cresswell Baber, M.B., M.R.C.S. . . .83 Chronic Infective Conditions. W. Jobson Horne, M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P. . . 88 Post-nasal Growths. Greville M'Donald, M.D. . . . . .91 Neuroses of. P. Watson Williams, M.D. . . . . . .97 Diseases op Accessory Cavities. Logan Turner, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. . . . 100 Foreign Bodies, etc. St. Clair Thomson, M.D., F.R.C.S. . . .123 Nursery Hygiene. H. Ashby, M.D., F.R.C.P. ...... 128 Nursing. Mrs. Chalmers Watson, M.D. . . . . . . .133 Obesity. I. Burney Yeo, M.D., F.R.C.P. . . . . . . .138 Ocular Muscles, Affections op. W. G. Sym, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. . 145 (Esophagus. H. P. Dean, F.R.C.S., M.S. ....... 159 Ophthalmoplegia. J. V. Paterson, M.B., i'.R.C.S.E. ..... 172 Opium. H. J. Dunbar, M.D. . . . . . . .174 Orbit, Diseases of. J. B. Lawford, F.R.C.S. . . . . . .177 Osteo-Arthropathies. H. Campbell Thomson, M.D., F.R.C.P. .... 192 Ovaries, Diseases of. Alban Doran, F.R.C.S. . . . . . .199 Palate, Injuries and Diseases of, and Hare-Lip. J. W. B. Hodsdon, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. 222 Pancreas, Physiology of. J. A. Milroy, M.A., M.B. ..... 240 Diseases of. A. W. Mayo Robson, F.R.C.S. ...... 245 Paralysis. Risien Russell, M.D., F.R.C.P. ; Frederick Batten, M.D., F.R.C.P. ; James S. Collier, M.D., F.R.C.P. ....... 265viii CONTENTS PAGE Paralytic Insanity. John Macpherson, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. .... 329 Paranoia. John Macpherson, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. ...... 332 Parasites. W. T. Ritchie, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. .... .336 Parotid Gland. D'Arcy Power, F.R.C.S. ....... 363 Pediculosis. George Pernet, M.R.C.S. ....... 370 Pellagra. F. M. Sandwith, M.D., F.R.C.P. ...... 374 Pelvis— Perineum and Pelvic Floor. W. E. Fothergill, M.D., B.Sc. . . . 378 Diseases of the Peritoneum and Cellular Tissue. F. W. N. Haultain, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. ......... 388 HiEMATOCELE AND HiEMATOMA. F. W. N. Haultain, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. . 391 Pemphigus. A. Whitfield, M.D., F.R.C.P. ... . . • 393 Penis, Surgical Affections of. C. F. Marshall, M.D., F.R.C.S. . . . 397 Pericardium, Diseases of. Sir John Broadbent, Bt., M.D., F.R.C.P, . - .401 Peritoneum— Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology Louisa Garrett Anderson, M.D. . .413 Acute Peritonitis. H. P. Dean, M.S., F.R.C.S. . . . . .421 Tuberculous and other Affections. D'Arcy Power, F.R.C.S. . . .431 Pharmacology. J. Stewart Fowler, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. ..... 441 Pharynx— Examination and Various Conditions—Anaemia, Foreign Bodies, Pharyngomycosis, etc. a. Brown Kelly, M.B., D.Sc. . . . . . .461 Inflammations of. Acute. Herbert Tilley, M.D., F.R.C.S. .... 465 Inflammations of, Chronic. W. Jobson Horne, M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P. . . 468 Chronic Infective Conditions. W. Jobson Horne, M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P. . . 472 Retropharyngeal Abscess. Herbert Tilley, M.D., F.R.C.S. .... 474 Physiognomy. Francis Warner, M.D., F.R.C.P. ...... 479 Physiology. Part I.—Tissues and Neuro-muscular Mechanism. D. Noel Paton, M.D., B.Sc, F.R.C.P.E. ......... 487LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS Nose, Examination of the— Fig. 1. Left Anterior Rhinoscopic View in a woman, set. 26 . „ 2. Posterior Rhinoscopic View, seen with the mirror in the ordinary position and without the use of any instrument to draw forward the palate ,, 3. Method of Holding the Self-retaining Palate Hook and Mirror previous to an examination of the naso-pharynx ...... Nose, Inflammatory Affections of Accessory Sinuses of the— Fig. 1. Dissection showing Right Maxillary Antrum opened upon its outer aspect {Plate) Facing „ 2. Dissection showing Outer Wall of left nasal chamber (Plate) . . „ ,, 3. Skull showing Anterior Wall of both frontal sinuses removed (Plate) . ,, „ 4. A Vertical Coronal Section through the nasal chambers and maxillary antra on the plane of the antral orifices (Plate) .... Facing Ovaries, Diseases of the— Fig. 1. Normal relations of Ovary to Broad Ligament and Tube ,, 2. Common "parovarian" or Broad Ligament Cyst in Mesosalpinx ,, 3. Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing in Mesosalpinx (usually papillomatous) ,, 4. Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing both in Mesosalpinx and Mesometrium ,, 5. Broad Ligament Cyst, not of ovarian origin, burrowing both into Mesosalpinx and Mesometrium ....... „ 6. Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing into Mesometrium, leaving Mesosalpinx intact......... . Pawlik's " pseudo-intraligamentary ovarian tumour " Palate— Figs. Fig. I. and 2. Various degrees of Simple Fissure of the Palate. (Mason 3. Complete Cleft Palate without alveolar or labial deformity 4. Unusual form of Cleft involving the alveolar arch and the anterior portion of palate only ....... 5. Complete Unilateral Cleft Palate without alveolar deficiency 6. Simple Fissure of the Palate ..... 7. Complete Cleft Palate and Double Alveolar Hare-lip 8. Paring the Edges of the Cleft. (After Cheyne and Burghard) . 9. ,, ,, ,, Extent of incisions 10. ,, ,, ,, Operation complete 11. Davies CoUey's operation. Flap dissected up, turned over, and united to the opposite side with raw surface downward 12. Davies CoUey's operation. Outline of flaps marked out Paralysis- Parasites- 13. „ ,, ,, Flap glided across and united to under raw surface Segmental areas—Front and Back. (After Collier and Purves Stewart) Fig. 1. Amoeba coli. (Braun, after Kovacs) ...... ,, 2. Trichomonas hominis. (After Grassi) ...... ,, 3. Diagram of the developmental cycle of Coccidium Schuhergi. (Liihe, after Schaudinn) ......... „ 4. Diagram of the developmental cycle of Hcemoproteus. (Liihe, after Schaudinn) „ 5. Balantidium coli. (After Leuckart) ...... ,, 6. Eggs of Fasciola hepatica. (After Mosler and Peiper) .... „ 7. Fasciola hepatica (natural size). (After Mosler and Peiper) ,, 8. Surface View of Vesical Mucous Membrane. Capillaries filled with blood cor- puscles. Eggs of Sch. hcematobium outside the capillaries. (After Lortet and Vialleton) ........ PASS 70 72 73 100 100 100 100 207 208 208 209 209 210 210 222 222 222 223 223 223 225 226 226 228 228 228 280 338 339 340 341 343 345 345 347X LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS PAGE Parasites—continued. Fig. 9. Schistosomum hoematobium. (After Blanchard) .... 347 ,, 10. Head of Tcenia saginata in contracted condition. (After Leuckart) . . 349 „ 11. Eggs of T. saginata. (After Mosler and Peiper) .... 349 ,, 12. Ripe Segment of T. saginata. (After Leuckart) .... 350 „ 13. Head of T. solium. (After Leuckart) ...... 350 „ 14. Eggs of „ (After Mosler and Peiper) ..... 350 ,, 15. Half-ripe and Ripe Segments of T. solium. (After Leuckart) . . . 350 ,, 16. Two Proglottides of T. Solium. (After Leuckart) .... 350 17. Larger (anterior) and Smaller (posterior) Hooks of J', so^mm. (After Leuckart). 350 ,, 18. Median Section through a Cysticercus with fully-formed scolex. (Braun, after Leuckart) ......... 351 ,, 19. Head of Bothriocephalus latus. (After Leuckart) .... 352 ,, 20. Eggs of ,, ,, (After Mosler and Peiper) . . . 353 ,, 21. Trichocephalus hominis. (Manson, after Blanchard) .... 355 ,, 22. Eggs of Trichocephalus hominis. (After Mosler and Peiper) . . . 355 ,, 23. Trichinae encapsuled in Muscle. (After Mosler and Peiper) . . . 355 ,, 24. Ascaris lumhricoides: Male and Female. (After Thoma) . . . 359 „ 25. Eggs of Ascaris lumhricoides. (After Mosler and Peiper) . . . 359 „ 26. Oxyuris vermicularis. (After Gerhardt-Seifert) .... 360 „ 27. Eggs of Oxyuris vermicularis. (After Mosler and Peiper^ . . . 360 Pellagra— Egyptian Girl showing Eruption of Pellagra ..... 376 Pelvis—-Perineum and Pelvic Floor— Fig. 1. Sagittal Section of Pelvis. (Hart and Barbour) .... 379 ,, 2. The Sacral or supporting segment of the Pelvic Floor. (Hart) . . 380 ,, 3. Incision for repair of Incomplete Perineal Tear ..... 382 „ 4. „ „ ,, Complete Perineal Tear. (Hart and Barbour) . . 383 ,, 5. Rectocele. (Hart and Barbour) ...... 384 6. Prolapsus uteri. (Hart and Barbour) ...... 384 „ 7. Anterior Colporraphy. (Skene Keith) ...... 387 ,, 8. Posterior Vaginal Enterocele. (Hart and Barbour) .... 387 Physiology— Fig. 1. Reticulated Structure of Protoplasm in the cell of an earth-worm. (After Biitschli) ......... 448 „ 2. Diagram of a Cell to show structure of protoplasm and nucleus . . 492 „ 3. Nucleus in Mitosis ........ 494 „ 4. Stratified Squamous Epithelium from the cornea .... 495 „ 5. a, Columnar Epithelium from the small intestine .... 495 h, Ciliated Epithelium from the trachea ..... 495 „ 6. Zymin-secreting Gland, to show cells containing zymogen granules, and the duct 496 „ 7. Mucoid Tissue from an embryo rabbit ...... 497 „ 8. Fibroblasts from young fibrous tissue ...... 497 „ 9. Bundles of White Fibres with fibroblasts and elastic fibres . . • 497 „ 10. Fat Cells stained with osmic acid ...... 498 „ 11. Hyaline Cartilage covered by perichondrium . . . . . 499 „ 12. Intra-membranous Bone Development in the lower jaw of a Foetal Cat . 500 „ 13. Intra-cartilaginous Bone Development ...... 500 „ 14. Cross-section through Shaft of Adult Long Bone to show arrangement in lamellse 501 „ 15. Fibres of Visceral and Skeletal Muscle ...... 502 „ 16. Diagram of Curare Experiment to show sciatic nerves exposed to action of curare ......... 504 „ 17. Motor Points of Arm ........ 504 ,, 18. Electrical Stimulation of Human Muscle or Nerve showing passage of current across the structure 506 ,, 19. Diagram representing the effects of Electrical Stimuli—galvanic and faradic . 506 „ 20. Diagram representing Strength of Current induced in Secondary Coil at make and break in primary circuit ....... 506 „ 21. Contraction of Skeletal Muscle (physical changes) .... 507 22. Apparatus for recording Muscular Contraction ..... 507 „ 23. Trace of Simple Muscle Twitch ....... 508 ,, 24. Influence of Continued Exertion on Skeletal Muscle .... 508LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xi FAOE Physiology—continued. Fig. 25. Influence of increasing the Strength of the Stimulus upon the Contraction of Skeletal Muscle ........ 509 „ 26. Influence of Load on a Muscular Contraction ..... 509 ,, 27. Efi'ect of a Series of Stimuli on Skeletal Muscle .... 509 ,, 28. Three Types of Lever illustrated by the movements at the ankle-joint . . 510 ,, 29. Influence of the Length of a Muscle upon the work done . . .511 ,, 30. Electric Current of Action in contracting muscle . . . .512 31. Respiration of Muscle in a closed chamber ..... 513 ,, 32. Exchanges between Muscle and Blood ...... 514 ,, 33. Diagrams to illustrate the influence of muscular work upon the Excretion of Carbon and of Nitrogen . . . . . . .514 „ 34. Poteriodendron to illustrate first stage in the evolution of a Neuro-muscular System . . . . . . . . .516 ,, 35. Two Neurons and their connection to one another through a synapsis . . 516 ,, 36. Nerve Cells with Nissl's Granules . . . . . .517 „ 37. Nerve Cell highly magnified . . . . . . .517 „ 38. Two White Nerve Fibres ....... 517 ,, 39. Diagram of Experiment to estimate rate of Conduction of Nerve Impulse . 519 ,, 40. Estimation of rate of Nerve Conduction by means of Galvanometer . .519 ,, 41. Neural Arcs—Spinal, Cerebral, and Cerebellar . .... 522 ,, 42. Play of different Reflex Arcs upon a Motor Neuron to the vasto-crureus muscle of a dog. (Sherrington) ....... 524 „ 43. Diagram to show the way in which the diff'erent Reflex Arcs react on one another. (M'Dougall) ....... 524 ,, 44. Reflex Figures struck in Decerebrated Cat on stimulating fore and hind paw. (Sherrington)......... 525 ,, 45. Structure of Muscle Spindle ....... 528 „ 46. Simple form of Sensory Nerve Termination ..... 529 ,, 47. Relationship of Sensation to Stimulus ...... 530 ,, 48. Arrangement of Epicritic, Protopathic, and Deep-ingoing Fibres in their Distribution . . . . . . . . .531 ,, 49. Connections of the Olfactory Fibres ...... 532 ,, 50. Horizontal Section through the Left Eye ..... 534 ,, 51. Diagram of a Section through the Retina ..... 535 ,, 52. Parallel Rays brought to a focus by refraction at the three surfaces . . 535 „ 53. Diagram showing that Rays from Distant and Near Objects are not focussed on the retina at the same time ...... 536 „ 54. Scheiner's Experiment ........ 536 ,, 55. Mechanism of Positive Accommodation ...... 536 ,, 56. Nerve Supply of the Intrinsic Muscles of the Eye .... 537 „ 57. Variations in the range of Positive Accommodation throughout life . . 537 ,, 58. Illustrating Presbyopia, Hypermetropia, and Myopia .... 538 ,, 59. Diagram to show the cause of Astigmatism ..... 538 „ 60. Methods of demonstrating the Blind Spot ..... 539 „ 61. Field of Vision and method of investigating it by the perimeter . . 539 ,, 62. Diagram to show that the Hindmost Layer of the Retina is stimulated. {Purkinje's Images) . . . . . . . .539 „ 63. Power of localising the Source of Illumination on different parts of the retina . 540 ,, 64. Distribution of Colour Sensation in relationship to the surface of the retina . 540 ,, 65. Disc which, when rotated in a bright light, gives Impression of Colours . 541 ,, 66. Diagram to show the various parts of the Spectrum on a Curve . . 541 ,, 67. Field of Vision in binocular vision ...... 542 „ 68. Stereoscopic Vision ......... 542 „ 69. Corresponding Areas of the Two Retinse in binocular vision . . . 542 „ 70. Left Eyeball in the Orbit with the muscles acting upon it . . . 542 „ 71. Movements of the Pupil caused by the muscles of the eye . . . 543 ,, 72. Nervous Mechanism presiding over the combined movements of the two eyes . 543 ,, 73. Connections of the Retinse with the central nervous system . . . 544 ,, 74. Illustrating an Optical Illusion ....... 544 „ 75. _ „ „ „ . . . . . . . 544 ,, 76. Diagram of the Ear ........ 545 „ 77. Transverse Section through cartilaginous lower part of Eustachian Tube . 546LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xii PAOK Physiology—continued. Fig. 78. Relationship of the Semicircular Canals to one another . . 546 ,, 79. Transverse Section through the Cochlea to show the organ of Corti on the basilar membrane ........ 547 ,, 80. Connections of Cochlea with central nervous system .... 547 „ 81. Connections of Semicircular Canals with central nervous system . . 548 „ 82. Arrangement of the Semicircular Canals on the two sides . . . 549 „ 83. Structure of a typical Spinal Nerve . . . . . . 550 „ 84. Distribution of the Cutaneous Nerves in the human subject . . .551 ,, 85. Scheme of distribution of Splanchnic Nerves . . . . .551 „ 86. Mesial Section through the Brain and upper part of the Spinal Cord . . 552 ,, 87. Cross Section of the Spinal Cord through the Second Dorsal Segment . . 553 ,, 88. Groups of Cells in the anterior horn of grey matter at the level of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Sacral Nerves ....... 554 ,, 89. The Neuro-muscular Mechanism concerned in the Knee-jerk . . . 554 ,, 90. Redistribution of Impulses in the Cord and the general course of impulses of different kinds ........ 555 ,, 91. Redistribution of Impulses in the Spinal Cord ..... 556 „ 92. View of the Medulla Oblongata, Corpora Quadrigemina, and the Optic Thalami 557 „ 93. Cross Section through Medulla Oblongata above the decussation of the Pyramids ......... 557 ,, 94. Cross Section of Medulla through the Olive ..... 558 ,, 95. The Nuclei and Roots of the Cranial Nerves ... . 558 ,, 96. Cross Section through region of Pons, Cerebellum, and fourth Ventricle . 559 ,, 97. Diagram of the arrangement of Fibres and Cells in the Cortex of the Cerebellum 560 „ 98. Connections of the Cerebellum with the Cerebro-spinal Axis . . . 560 „ 99. Cross Section through Anterior Corpora Quadrigemina and Cerebral Peduncles 562 ,, 100. Diagrammatic Horizontal Section through base of Cerebral Hemisphere . 562 ,, 101. Diagram of the Arrangement of Cells in a typical part of the Cerebral Cortex 563 ,, 102. Diagram of Collateral Connections of different parts of the Cerebral Cortex . 563 ,, 103. a. The chief Convolutions on the outer aspect of a Cerebral Hemisphere . 563 b, „ „ ,, inner „ „ . 563 ,, 104. a, Section of Cerebral Cortex in the pre-Rolandic lobe .... 564 b, ,, through ,, in the region of the calcarine fissure . . 564 ,, 105. a, Pigeon with the Cerebellum destroyed ..... 564 b, ,, Cerebrum removed ...... 564 „ 106. Diagram to illustrate different possible channels of Cerebral Response to Stimulation ......... 565 ,, 107. Left Hemisphere of Brain of Chimpanzee to show the results of stimulating different parts ........ 567 ,, 108. a, Flechsig's primary projection areas on the z'wTier aspect of the Cerebral Cortex 568 b, „ „ „ outer „ „ 568 ,, 109. The mapping out of the Cerebral Cortex on its outer and inner aspects into areas 569ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAEY OF MEDICINE AND SUKGEEY Nefiiil.—A glucoside obtained from common oleander leaves {Nerium oleander), and having properties similar to those of the glucoside digitalein; it has been used in heart disease as a cardiac tonic. Neris. See Balneology {France, In- different Thermal Waters). Nerium Oleander. — The common oleander (nat. ord. ApocynacecB), a poisonous plant (like digitalis); formerly used against snake-bites, and now sometimes employed (in the form of an extract) as a cardiac stimulant. Neroli Oil.—Oil of orange-flower [Oleum Neroli) prepared by distillation from the flowers of the citrus aurantium, and present (in aqueous solution) in aqua atirantii floris and syrupus aurantii floris. See Aurantii Cortex. Nerve. See Nerves ; Nervous ; etc. Nerve, Auditory. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth ; Cranial Nerves ; Physiology, Senses {Hearing, Auditory Nerve). Nerve Cell. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve). Nerve Deafness. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Labyrinthitis and Nerve Deafness). Nerve Fibres. See Physiology, Tissues {Ne7-ve); Spinal Cord, Medical ; etc. Nerve Storms. — Periodic discharges of nervous force from sensory centres, as in epilepsy and migraine {q.v.). Nerves, Diseases of. See Nervous System, Diseases of. See also Nerves, Peri- pheral, Injuries and Diseases of ; Nerves, Peripheral—Multiple Peripheral Neuritis; Nerves, Peripheral — Neuralgia ; Neuras- thenia ; Neuroses, Occupation ; etc. VOL. VII Nerves, Peripheral, injuries and Diseases of.^ General Considerations (t.). . . 1 Injuries (t.) . . . 2 Pathology ..... 2 Symptoms ..... 4 Progress ...... 5 Treatment ..... 5 Traumatic Neuritis .... 6 Pressure Lesions ..... 7 Dislocation ...... 7 Mononeuritis (w.) ..... 7 Affections op Special Nerves . . 8 {See also Brachial Plexus, Cranial Nerves, Sciatica, Torticollis) Long Thoracic (w.) .... 8 Supra Scapular (w.) .... 9 Circumflex ... . . 9 Median (w.) 9 Ulnar (w.) ...... 9 Musculo-spiral (t.) . . . .10 Radial (t.) 10 Lumbosacral Plexus (t.) ... 10 Sciatic (t.) . . . . .10 Popliteal (t.) 10 Tumours (t.) . . . . . .11 Meralgia Paraesthetica (w.) . . . 12 Multiple Peripheral Neuritis (w.) . 12 Neuralgia ...... 25 Causation (w.) ..... 25 Symptoms (w.) ..... 25 Medical Treatment (w.) ... 27 Surgical Treatment (t.) . . .28 Operations upon Special Nerves (t.) . 29 General Considerations.—A peripheral nerve consists of a delicate scaS"olding of connective tissue enclosing the essential nervous structures. ' The following article being the work of two writers, its various sections are indicated in the syllabus by the initials (T.) and (W.), which imply respectively the responsibility of Mr. Thorburn and of Dr. Williamson.2 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF The scaffolding presents an external perineurium which surrounds the entire nerve, an epineu- rium which divides it into fasciculi, and a very delicate endoneurium which runs between the nerve - fibres of each fasciculus. These structures are of the usual type of white con- nective tissue; they are strong, elastic, and resistant both to injury and to the spread of pathological processes; they enclose not only the nerve fibrils, but also small blood- and lymph-vessels, and probably nervi nervorum. The nerve fibrils are mainly of the meduUated type, and they run in parallel series without breach of continuity between their terminal connections, which consist of a central ganglionic structure at one end, and a muscle plate, tactile corpuscle, or secreting organ at the other. The typical medullated fibre presents three con- stituents, viz. : (1) The axis cylinder, which is absolutely continuous throughout its length; (2) the neurilemma, primitive sheath or sheath of Schwann, which forms a delicate external tube; (3) the myelin, which lies between the axis cylinder and the enclosing primitive sheath. At the " nodes of Ranvier " the primitive sheath presents constrictions situated at fairly regular intervals, and in the area between each pair of adjacent nodes there is found a nucleus which lies in the myelin and in close apposition to the primitive sheath; more accurate observation shows that at each node of Ranvier the primi- tive sheath has an actual interruption in its continuity. It thus appears that the axis cylinder passes continuously through a number of minute tubes serially arranged. Each tube may be regarded as a cell, of which the wall forms the sheath of Schwann, and the body the myelin, while the nucleus presents but slight departure from ordinary types. The axis cylinder, on the other hand, is merely an enormously long process of a single cell, or neuron, and its nucleus lies in a central nervous organ; it is thus devoid of all inherent capacity of growth or repair, and is dependent for its nutrition on its central connections; this dependence upon a distant base renders it peculiarly susceptible to the severance of its communications, but has the compensatory advantage that the base itself is not liable to be injured at the same time as the axis cylinder. The axis cylinder alone is the conducting nerve structure; the primitive sheath and myelin are independent insulating cells, and are entirely absent from "non- meduUated fibres." Again, the axis cylinder presents a peculiar relationship to its insulating cells, which may be compared to the influence of the blood upon the blood-vessels ; the cylinder merely passes through its enclosing cells, but its health is essential to the health of those cells, and vice versa. The development of the axis cylinder also probably differs from that of its containing media ; the axis cylinder is thrust out into the periphery from the central (epiblastic) nerve cell; the myelin and primitive sheath are more probably of mesoblastic origin. The importance and interest of these facts will be more apparent in connection with the pathology of injuries to nerves. Injuries of Nerves Nerves are liable to complete division by cuts and tears, to partial section, to punctured wounds, to contusions and to compression by inflammatory products and the like. So long as they are not directly attacked they present a high degree of resistance to surrounding con- ditions ; thus the sciatic nerve has been laid bare in its entire length without physiological injury, and nerves are constantly found to pass through inflamed and even purulent areas without suffering; this independence of their surroundings depends mainly upon the facts that they carry with them their own blood- vessels, and that the nutrition of the axis cylinders is governed by the distant nuclei of the neurones. Complete section is a common result of accidental cuts and stabs, of gunshot wounds, of certain surgical operations, and especially of amputations; as a result of accident it is most common in the region of the wrist, the ulnar, median, or radial nerve being divided by such agents as chisels, knives, and especially broken pieces of glass. Immediately after section the cut ends of the nerve may occupy one of four possible inter-relationships, viz. : (1) Contact or close apposition; (2) separation by a distinct interval: (3) separation complicated by inter- vention of some other structure, or of a foreign body; (4) complete loss of the peripheral end, as in amputations. The pathological results will differ somewhat in each of these cases. Division without separation of the cut ends is rare, as the elasticity of the nerve causes it to retract when cut; practically it is met with only in the case of the smaller nerves, in partial section, and after the operation of primary suture. The changes which arise under such conditions fall into three classes, viz., in- flammatory reaction of the connective - tissue stroma, degeneration of the nerve - fibres, and subsequent regeneration of the latter. The con- nective-tissue changes present no peculiarities; they cause swelling of the cut ends, with the production of two "end-bulbs," which unite into a fusiform mass of "nerve callus"; this nerve callus re-establishes the mechanical con- tinuity of the nerve, and forms a cicatrix which is eventually absorbed. As regards the be- haviour of the nerve fibres there is still much controversy, and it will be convenient to de- scribe first the view which appears to be most generally adopted, and to point out later certain difficulties which lie in the way of its acceptance. Section of a nerve is quickly followed byNERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 3 degenerative changes in its fibres, which involve the entire peripheral segment down to the terminations, and include the muscle plates ; in the central segment the degeneration extends only to the first or second node of Ranvier above the lesion. This degeneration is first seen in the myelin, which becomes turbid and granular, and after a few days breaks up into large drops; in the ensuing weeks these drops yield a fatty detritus, which is carried away by the lymphatics and leucocytes. A few days after the injury the axis cylinder also loses its distinctness of outline, and becomes swollen and granvilar, finally breaking up into detritus. Destruction of the sheath of Schwann and of its nuclei has not been proved to occur, but these structures become difficult to distinguish after the loss of the myelin and axis cylinder. These degenerative changes are generally complete in about two months, and they appear to proceed simultaneously in all parts of the peripheral segment; in the cut end of the proximal seg- ment they are more quickly carried out, and they only extend upwards for about one millimetre. Degeneration is accompanied and followed by regeneration, which occurs only at the cut end of the central segment, and which commences at the nodes of Ranvier immediately above the level of degeneration. A few days after section the axis cylinders of this region swell, become •more distinctly fibrillated, and commence to grow down into the nerve callus; there is thus formed a leash of new fibrils, which penetrate the calhis, reach the degenerated peripheral end, and then continue to grow down into it until they eventually attain to the muscles and skin. As these new prolongations of the old axis cylinders pass onwards they acquire a fresh covering of myelin and primitive sheath, but how they do so is not clearly proved. Probably the majority run along the old channels of the neurilemma, find there the undestroyed nuclei of the degenerated peripheral end, and stimulate them to reform myelin ; others go astray either in the epineurium or in the general cicatrix, are thus lost, and never acquire any functional value ; in the latter case their medullary sheath is presumably derived from proliferation of the nuclei of the central end. In association with the above processes the cells of the spinal cord and ganglia present various minute changes, which are the anatomical indication of their reparative activity, but which hardly call for description in this place. Finally, the process of regeneration is extremely slow, as might be anticipated from the distance to be traversed by the outgrowing axis cylinders; in the case of small nerves {e.g. digital branches) it may take many weeks, and in larger trunks it occupies months or years. Summarising the above, we may say that:— (1) Mechanical continuity is restored in about a fortnight by a connective - tissue cicatrix, which possesses no nervous functions. (2) The nerve structures proper or axis cylinders die in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound, and in the whole of that segment which is cut off from the ganglionic nuclei. (3) The accessory or insulating cells degenerate pari passu with the axis cylinders. (4) Regeneration of the axis cylinders is eifected solely by the central portions, which retain connection with their nuclei. (5) Such regeneration is extrava- gant, and produces an excessive number of new nerve-fibrils. (6) Of the latter, many get lost in the cicatrix. (7) Others grow down into the peripheral tract. (8) In so doing they acquire fresh insulating elements, either by proliferation from the healthy central end, or by re-excitation of quiescent nuclei in the degenerated peripheral cord. The above history of events is founded largely upon the original observations of Ranvier, which have in the main been confirmed by sub- sequent researches; but there is still considerable difference of opinion regarding the details of the process. In the first place, it is stated that " primary union " may occasionally occur with such rapidity that the above complicated series of events could not have been carried out. In man there is no anatomical basis for this view, but in the lower animals, and especially in birds, regeneration has apparently been shown to occur with enormous rapidity. To the clinical evidence of primary Tinion in man we shall again refer; broadly, we may say that it is hardly sufficient to establish the doctrine of immediate restoration of the continuity of the axis cylinders or primary union. A further important divergence from the views expressed above is that generally associ- ated in this country with the researches of Bowlby, who denies that degeneration occurs solely from the proximal end of the nerve, and holds that new axis cylinders are formed by the nuclei of both central and distal ends. This view is based largely upon the appearance of healthy nerve fibres in the peripheral end of an interrupted trunk; but such appearances are capable of at least two other explanations, viz. : (1) Regenerated or down-growing fibres may escape from the central end-bulb of a cut nerve, and attain to its peripheral end by an indirect course even when there is no apparent restora- tion of mechanical continuity. (2) Collateral nerves may grow into the peripheral end as they grow into transplanted flaps and other structures. We have thus far considered only the patho- logical results of nerve section in cases in which the cut ends are in approximate contact. When they are not in such contact, as when they are separated by distance or by intervening sub- stances, the results are less open to dispute. The peripheral portions now undergo progres- sive degeneration, and become converted into4 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF mere librous cords, which gradvially atrophy, but which remain as distinct structures for an indelinite period; the cut end of this cord is generally thin and tapering, or it may occasion- ally present a slight bulb. At the cut surface of the proximal portion of the fibre, on the other hand, we have active changes: the con- nective tissue becomes inflamed, and forms an oval bulb or swelling; in a few days the axis cylinders commence to grow into this swelling and to ramify throughout the cicatrix, acquiring a covering of myelin and primitive sheath. Hence there results a large end-bulb, more or less closely adherent to the general wound scar, and consisting of newly-formed nerve-tissue chaotically arranged in a fibrous cicatrix; the attempt at repair has proved abortive from the want of a channel of direction. After a very long period the central ends undergo gradual atrophy, and all of these conditions are accom- panied with atrophic changes in the correlated areas of the central nervous system. Lastly, in the case of amputations the nerves of the stump behave similarly to the central ends of divided nerves, the ehd-bulbs when much enlarged—as they are apt to be in septic cases—forming the so-called " amputation neuromata." Tearing of important nerves is not very common, except in the case of the brachial plexus (q-v ), and of traumatic avulsion of limbs. The results produced are similar to those of complete section with separation of the divided ends. Partial section and punctured wounds of nerves are most commonly met with in the region of the wrist. The results are similar to those of complete section with apposition of the cut surfaces, but do not involve the whole of the functions of the damaged trunk. Punctured wounds appear to be peculiarly liable to the development of a continued neuritis. Contusions of nerves result from various in- j uries of civil life, and are also commonly produced by bullet wounds, which thrust aside nerve-trunks without readily perforating them. Severe contu- sions cause much hfemorrhage into the trunks, with disorganisation of the nerve-fibres, and thus produce results similar to those of section with separation of the ends; but every grade of injury is met with from this, the most severe form, to the mere tingling which results from rolling beneath the finger such exposed trunks as the idnar or the lingual. The symptoms of injuries of nerves are similar in all the above cases, and may be considered collectively. They are variously combined in accordance with the physiological functions of the affected trunk. Paralysis of the atrophic type is developed immediately, and is accompanied by wasting and fatty degeneration of the affected muscles, which attains its height in about three or four months after the injury. The affected muscles usually cease to react to the faradic current within three or four days, and they then quickly present the galvanic reaction of degeneration. After a few weeks all electrical contractility is lost. Should recovery ensue, voluntary contractility often precedes the capacity for electrical stimulation. Sensation of all kinds is abolished, but is often partially restored by the agency of col- lateral branches. The margins of anfesthesia are thus rarely quite sharply defined. Pain and hypersesthesia are common is cases of partial injury. Pain in the cicatrix of a cut nerve is common, and is often referred subjectively to the terminal distribution of the divided trunk. During recovery the sense of touch usually returns before those of pain and temperature, whilst it is a general rule that in cases in which the functions of the nerve are not totally abolished sensation is less injured than is motor power. Vaso-motor changes are manifested by altera- tions in temperature and in colour. The temperature changes are somewhat variable, but in the majority of cases there is for a few days a rise of two or three degrees, followed later by a fall which may amount to eight or ten degrees (F.), and which may last indefinitely. Redness and pallor correspond respectively to rise and fall in temperature. There is also a marked tendency to sudden variations in the vascularity of the affected parts under the influence of slight external causes, and thus even light rubbing of the anaesthetic areas may cause marked suftusion with blood. The various changes met with appear to be most readily explicable on the theory that the arteries have a local vaso-motor mechanism which, when cut oft' from the spinal cord, at first acts imperfectly and allows of dilatation ; that after a few days this mechanism acts with excess of energy and produces local ansemia, but that such local control is unstable and is liable to give way under the influence of slight irritations and to again permit of dilatation of the arteries {cf. art. " Inflammation," " Hypersemia "). Secretory phenomena are met with in the skin, and in special glands such as those of the mouth and eye. The skin may be abnormally dry or moist, and the perspiration is not rarely of a peculiarly fojtid odour. The so-called trophic changes involve mainly the skin and its appendages, the synovial mem- branes, and the muscles. The skin is generally peculiarly smooth, "glossy," thin, and delicate. Its papillae are small and its epithelium atrophic. The hair becomes harsh and dry, and is readily shed. The nails are brittle, and tend to trans- verse or vertical cracking, or they may be coarse and thick with swelling of the matrix. The subcutaneous tissues are thin and atrophic. Eruptions of herpetic or eczematous type are common, and may be recurrent. Obstinate5 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ulcerations, whitlows, small sloughings, and occasionally more extensive gangrene, are met with. Arthropathies generally appear as acute swellings, with or without pain and redness. In this stage the condition is one of synovial eft'usion, and resembles in appearance an acute rheumatic affection. Rarely proceeding to sup- puration, the effusion generally reaches its height in a few days, and then subsides slowly, leaving considerable thickening of the joint capsule and a great tendency to the formation of periarticular and intra-articular cicatrices. Serious deformities and ankyloses are apt to be thus produced, especially in the fingers. Less commonly than the joints, the sheaths of tendons may present similar changes. Atrophic changes in the bones are occasionally described, but rarely attain to any clinical importance. Trophic changes of the skin are generally met with in anaesthetic regions, or less commonly in association with hypersesthesia. They are limited to the cutaneous distribution of the affected nerve. They are, as a rule, somewhat late phenomena, and they follow all forms of nerve injury. The deeper trophic lesions, on the other hand, concern the paralysed muscles with their adjacent joints, are usually of early appearance, and are seldom met with except in complete nerve section. The progress of a case of nerve injury will depend mainly upon the facility with which the nerve can be regenerated, and hence upon pathological peculiarities which have already been referred to. Should there be no regenera- tion—as in cases of wide separation, extensive contusion, or interposition of other structures between the cut ends—no recovery is possible, and such slight improvement as may gradually occur is due solely to the vicarious action of adjacent muscles and nerves. On the other hand, regeneration or restoration of physiological continuity is followed by the gradual restoration of sensation and motor power, although it is -doubtful whether such recovery is ever quite complete in the case of large trunks. The time required for recovery is very great, and may extend to months or years. It is longer in the case of the larger trunks, and is shorter in the young than in later life. It is interesting to note in this connection that although it is inconceivable that all the repaired axis cylinders should grow down into the tracts with which they were previously connected, there is little or no confusion in the passage of spinal impulses to the muscles. Confusion of sensory localisa- tion is, however, not uncommon, and frequently of long duration. Treatmeistt.—The regeneration of nerves and restoration of their functions is materially aided by such measures as the use of local warmth, massage, and electrical stimulation of paralysed muscles, protection from irritations which evoke trophic changes, prevention of malpositions which may lead to deformities, and guarding against ankylosis of inflamed joints. All such measures must, however, be regarded as sub- sidiary, and in all practicable cases suture of a divided nerve should be imdertaken as a prim- ary or secondary operation. Primary suture is performed at the time of injury; secondary sviture is practised at a later date, and should only be undertaken after the original wound has healed, or in cases of severe contusion which have proved incapable of spontaneous recovery. As aseptic healing is essential to the success of these operations, they should never be attemjited in an inflamed or suppurating wound. Primary suture is usually readily affected through a traumatic wound which may, if necessary, be extended along the divided nerves. The cut ends are exposed, bleeding is arrested, and sutures are then applied so as to bring the nerve ends into contact, a proceeding which is seldom difficult if aided by flexion of joints or other suitable fixation of the limb. The cut ends should be interfered with as little as possible, but if bruised they may be freshened by a sharp cut with the scissors; the sutures should be of chromicised catgut or kangaroo tendon, and as few and delicate as is consistent with security—they are passed directly through the nerve-fibres, most easily by means of curved needles with round points, and they should be tied only sufficiently tightly to produce apposi- tion ; for all ordinary purposes, such as suture of the median, radial, and ulnar nerves, two such sutures passed about an eighth of an inch above and below the cut surfaces will suffice. If there be much tension an extra tension suture may be passed some distance beyond the cut ends, and in the case of large trunks " para-neural" sutures may be passed through the sheath. Unabsorbable materials should never be used for these purposes, as they may produce ex- tremely painful scars. The results of primary suture are usually good, although recovery is often very slow, and is at first disappointing to the patient and possibly to the surgeon ; it is rare to find any evidence of restored function in less than two months after the operation. In certain cases it is stated that such suture is immediately followed by return of previously abolished functions, and it is claimed that we have here a "primary union " of the divided axis cylinders without the complicated process of degeneration and regeneration above described. In the lower animals, and especially in birds, such a condition appears to be by no means very uncommon, but in man the evidence in favour of its occurrence is less satisfactory. The observations are based largely upon the return of sensation, which is open to the objection that it involves a sub- jective element on the part of the patient. Further, it is found that sensation thus rapidly restored is apt to prove evanescent, and it is6 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF suggested that its presence is due to a hyper- excitability produced in the overlapping fibres of adjacent nerves. The difficult question of perception of sensation has also to be considered, and is best illustrated by the two following cases recently observed by the writer:— 1. A boy had division of the median nerve of many months' duration, was found by my house surgeon to be completely anfesthetic, and was sent to the operating theatre; there testing him, I found beyond all question both sensation and fair localisation in the affected area ; no operation was performed; two days later I found the same regions absolutely ansesthetic. 2. A man with fractured spine, crush of the Cauda equina, and complete ansesthesia in the distribution of the second sacral roots on both sides, of eight weeks' duration; laminectomy; on following day distinct sensation in aiTected cutaneous area; two days later anaesthesia was as before, and so remained imtil the case was lost sight of. There appears to be only one possible explana- tion of such cases, viz., that collateral branches enter the affected area, but that their stimula- tion is insufficient to evoke perception, unless the cerebral centres be rendered abnormally excitable by the mental stimulus of an impend- ing or recent operation. And, again, the im- mediate but evanescent return of sensation after primary suture is explicable by the view that before degeneration has occurred, the peripheral segment of the nerve may for a time convey an impulse or current up to the cut, and may there induce a second current in the central end by a mechanism similar to the paradoxical muscular contraction of the physiologists. On these and other grounds the primary union of divided nerves can hardly be regarded as proved to occur in man, although a few remarkable cases show beyond doubt that nerves of the size of the radial and ulnar may occasionally regain their functions within a few days after section. Secondary suture is a more complicated pro- cedure than is the primary operation. The limb being cleansed, a free incision is made over the course of the nerve, and the cut ends are sought for, a process often rendered very difficult by extensive cicatrisation and by the atrophy of the distal end. The use of Esmarch's bandage facilitates the discovery of the nerve, but as a rule the writer prefers to avoid it, as it tends to increase the extravasation of blood after closure of the wound ; if the incision be long, the ends of the nerve will generally be found in their anatomical relations at some distance from the scar, and their separation for a distance assists their subsequent adaptation. When the general cicatrix has been thoroughly cleared, the nerve ends are picked up lightly by their extreme tips and freshened by scissors, after which they are united as in primaiy suture ; it is to be remembered that one central end may have two or more distal divisions; also that the central end is large and bulbous, and contains the essential axis cylinders, while the distal ends are generally thin, and contain no vital nerve elements. The greater part of the central bulb must be cut away to expose fully the axis cylinders, but the more passive distal end should be spared as far as possible. Prognosis after secondary suture is said to be even better than after the primary operation, biit the time required for regeneration is often enormously long, sensation seldom returning in less than three or four months, while motion is usually deferred for twice that length of time. How long after the injury the operation holds out any prospects of success cannot be stated ;. but as good results have been obtained after eighteen years, no case need be rejected on account of its duration. After secondary suture cases of rapid and almost immediate recovery are also recorded, but much of the evidence is open to question. Plastic operatio7is are occasionally adopted in cases in which wide separation renders impossible the adaptation of cut nerves, but such operations are by no means highly successful. Phillipeau and Vulpian experimentally grafted a fragment of the lingual nerve into a gap in the hyper- glossal ; Gluck obtained recovery after grafting a rabbit's sciatic upon the fowl; two cut ends of the median have been attached to the intact ulnar with good effect; Tillmanns ingeniously turned down a flap from each of the two cut ends of the divided ulnar and median nerves, and thus obtained a continuous strand of ner- vous tissue. In all such cases the results appear to depend upon the provision of a guide for the down-growing axis cylinders of the central end, and thus recovery has been ob- tained by slipping the severed ends into a decalcified bone tube, or by uniting them by strands of catgut (Vanlair). Finally, on a different principle, the long bone of a limb has been shortened by resection in order to allow of approximation of the ends of divided nerve- trunks. TraUiMATic neuritis is a not very common condition which may result from injuries of nerve-trunks. In the majority of cases the primary injury has been comparatively slight, and consists of a contusion, puncture, or partial section, while the sufferer is generally the sub- ject of gout, rheumatism, syphilis, lead-poison- ing, or other similar constitutional condition. Of the pathology, little is known from direct observation ; but the disease appears to take the form of an acute, or, more commonly, of a chronic inflammation of the stroma of the nerve, which tends to ascend its trunk, and to cause irritation of and pressure upon its fibres. The disease generally manifests itself some weeks or months after a slight injiuy in the form of gradually increasing hypersesthesia and7 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF neuralgic pain, which involve the affected trunk and spread gradually to its higher branches. Motor weakness and sometimes spasmodic phenomena supervene, the vaso-motor and trophic symptoms are common, but complete anaesthesia and paralysis rarely develop, the prominent symptoms being constant wearing pain and crippling by trophic changes and de- formities. In the majority of cases the hand is the selected region, and not a few examples closely resemble Raynaud's disease except in the fact that they have no tendency to a sym- metrical type. Occasionally the inflammatory process appears to extend to the spinal cord, and epilepsy is said to supervene in some cases. It can, however, hardly be doubted that the cases described as traumatic neuritis include various ill-defined nervous troubles such as painful cicatrices, hysteria, and possibly reflex affections of various kinds. The treatment consists generally in the treat- ment of neuralgia, the most useful application being belladonna applied along the course of the affected trunk. In cases of great pain localised in a cicatrix, the latter should be freely excised, while extreme examples may call for nerve stretching or for the amputation of digits. Again, many cases are curable by free- ing the affected nerve from the general wound cicatrix, especially if the latter be attached to movable tendons, as is common at the wrist. In some, a removable source of irritation will be found in the form of a small foreign body. Pressure lesions of nerves result from the most varied conditions, of which the most prominent are tumours, aneurysms, cicatrices, fragments of broken bones, callus, dislocated bones, the foetal head, and external substances, such as crutches, splints, ligatures, and bandages. In many of these cases the results of pressure are most conveniently regarded as symptoms or complications of the primary disease, but in certain instances they become so prominent and characteristic as to call for special description. The resultant symptoms are in severe cases similar to those of nerve section, and are para- lytic in their nature, pain and hypersesthesia being mainly conspicuous by their absence. The onset is generally sudden, especially in the more characteristic examples, in which the source of pressure is a displaced bone or a hard substance compressing a nerve against a bone. Paralysis is generally much more marked than anaesthesia, and trophic changes are compara- tively rare. The intensity and duration of symptoms will naturally depend essentially upon that of the compressing agent. Of these cases the common pressure lesions of the musculo-spiral nerve afford the most typical example. Masses of callus and frac- tured or dislocated bones are especially liable to involve the nerves of the upper limb, and again the musculo-spiral nerve is prone to suffer in injuries of the humerus, while the brachial plexus is aftected by fractures of the clavicle and dislocations of the shoulder. In all such cases the essential treatment consists in the removal of the compressing agent, followed by the use of such subsidiary agents as have been recommended for nerve section. When the pressure is due to fragments of fractured bones it is commonly advised to obtain bony union before dealing with the nerve injury, but under modern conditions the writer certainly prefers early operation. Dislocation of nerves is extremely rare, except in the case of the ulnar, which is apt to be slipped forwards from its groove behind the internal condyle of the humerus. The latter injury is generally the result of a direct blow, although occasionally assigned to an abnormally small size of the condyle ; a few cases are ap- parently congenital. The affected trunk slips forward on to the inner aspect of the condyle, where it can be readily felt; it may either re- tain this position, or it may slip in and out of its normal bed with the movements of the arm. The characteristic symptoms are pain and tingling along the course of the ulnar nerve, ex- aggerated by movements or pressure and some- times associated with an ascending neuralgia or neuritis. The displaced trunk is usually readily reduced, but extremely difficult to retain in position. Recent cases may be treated by fixa- tion of the arm in an extended position with adaptation of a pad, not over the nerve, but over the condyle. Old-standing examples may cease to give trouble, the nerve becoming inured to its vicissitudes, or, if symptoms continue, cure is effected by opening the groove behind the condyle, replacing the nerve, and binding it down by suturing the deep fascia over it. Neuritis Neuritis, or mononeuritis, is the term applied to inflammation of a nerve. [When many nerves are affected the condition is termed multiple peripheral neuritis, or poly- neuritis. It is usually bilateral and symmetrical, and it will be considered subsequently.] Causes of Neuritis [Mononeuritis). — The affection is frequently produced by injury of the nerve through wounds, contusions, com- pression, adjacent bone fractures, or through dislocations. By prolonged violent muscular exertion neuritis may be produced in a nerve surrounded by the contracting muscle fibres. Adjacent inflammatory processes in bone or other tissues may cause neuritis by spreading to the nerve. Other causes are cold, rheu- matism, gout, and diabetes, and the infiltration of a nerve by new tissue in syphilis or cancer. A mononeuritis occasionally, though very rarely, follows typhoid fever, smallpox, diphtheria, tuberculosis. Neuritis of a single nerve usually begins in8 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF the outer sheath, this condition being known as perineuritis. Sometimes the neuritis involves chiefly the interstitial connective tissue of the nerve—interstitial neuritis. In other cases the nerve fibres themselves are chiefly affected— parenchymatous or degenerative neuritis. Pathological Anatomy.—In perineuritis the connective tissue around the nerve is red and swollen; the small vessels of the sheaths are dilated and full of blood ; occasionally there are small hjBmorrhages. The hypersemia is followed by serous transudation and extravasation of leucocytes between the sheath and the nerve bundles. At the seat of the changes a local spindle-form swelling develops. When the con- dition is more advanced round cells infiltrate the septa of the nerve, and may penetrate between the nerve fibres, causing an interstitial neuritis, and finally the nerve fibres degenerate. A localised proliferation of connective tissue may cause nodular swellings at one or more points, producing a nodular disseminated neuritis. In interstitial neuritis, cell infiltration and changes similar to those mentioned affect the connective tissue between the nerve-fibres, which generally degenerate secondarily. In parenchymatous or degenerative neuritis the nerve fibres break down and present changes similar to those of Wallerian degeneration, after division of a nerve. The parenchymatous neu- ritis may develop primarily, or it may be secondary to an interstitial or peri-neuritis. (Periaxial segmentary neuritis is described under lead neuritis.) Localised neuritis of a nerve is followed by secondary degeneration down to the peripheral jaart of the nerve-fibres; whilst the central portion of the nerve, i.e. between the local neuritis and the cord, usually remains unaffected. Symptoms.—Slight constitutional disturbances may be present, but the chief symptoms are local. The most important is pain, localised in the nerve or its area of distribution, but some- times affecting the whole limb. The pain is boring or burning in character, rarely darting, it is increased by movement; it may be absent when the nerve is chiefly motor. A superficially situated nerve may be felt to be swollen, and is very sensitive to pressure. Rarely there is slight redness of the skin and slight ojdema superficial to the nerve. In the distribution of the nerve there is first parsesthesiaandhypersesthesia—later, anaesthesia and paralysis and atrophy of muscles supplied. Rare skin affections are glossy skin and herpes zoster. The electrical excitability is increased, then diminished, and finally a reaction of de- generation may be obtained. In the interstitial neuritis the development is very chronic ; pain and tenderness of the nerve are less marked. In the parenchymatous neuritis swelling of the nerve cannot be detected. The nerve is much less painful on pressure. The other sensory and motor symptoms are much the same. Diagnosis. — The important indications are the pain and tenderness of a nerve, and the localisation of the symptoms to its distribution. In neuralgia the pain is more intermittent than in neuritis, and there are not the loss of sensa- tion and muscular paresis in the distribution of the nerve (see section on Neuralgia). Treatment.—Removal of the cause, if possible, is the most important point. Treatment for gout, diabetes, or syphilis may be indicated. Perfect rest of the affected part is necessary. Sir Wm. Gowers thinks no drug has such a distinct infliience on the neuritic process as mercury—a grain of blue pill twice a day. Hot fomentations in the region of the nerve are of service for the pain; sodium salicylate and antipyrin may be given ; morphia and especially cocaine, injected locally, are of great value. In the chronic stage counter-irritation by a blister, or the application of galvanism, is of service. A weak current should be used, the anode being- placed over the affected nerve.^ Diseases and Injuries of Special Spinal Nerves Phrenic nerve, see article on " Diaphragm." Brachial plexus and its cords, see article "Brachial Plexus." Nerve to the Se?-ratus Magnus [Posterior or Long Thoracic Nerve).—Paralysis of this nerve is produced by injury in the supraclavicular fossa or axilla. It may be due to injuries to the shoulder; it is occasionally produced through carrying heavy weights on the shoulder, especi- ally if any sharp corner of the article has pressed into the supraclavicular fossa. Prolonged or violent muscular exertion with the arm raised has produced the paralysis, probably owing to severe compression of the nerve by muscular tissue through which it passes. The writer has seen the paralysis produced during parturition by prolonged and violent traction on a towel fixed to the head of the bed. Occasionally paralysis of the nerve has followed diphtheria, typhoid fever, influenza. Sympto7}is.—At the onset there is sometimes neuralgic pain in the neck or about the shoidder. Lesion of the nerve causes paralysis of the ser- ratus magnus muscle. On abduction of the arm to the horizontal position, the scapula on the paralysed side is nearer the vertebral column, and its posterior border is raised from the thorax. When the arms are put forwards horizontally in front of the chest the posterior edge of the scapula recedes from the thorax, causing a deep groove at this part. Elevation of the arm above the shoulder is much weakened ; but if the lower angle of the scapula be pushed forwards and 1 The affections of |ieripheral cranial nerves are de- scribed separately {see " Cranial Nerves" for Index).9 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF fixed by the hand of the examiner, the arm can then be raised vertically. Treatment.—The arm should be kept at rest, and it should be placed in a sling adjusted so -as to slightly raise the shoulder. Galvanism may be employed after the early inflammatory •changes have subsided. The supra-scapular nerve is occasionally para- lysed through injuries to the shoulder, falls on the hand, and exposure to cold. The symptoms •consist chiefly in paralysis and atrophy of the supra- and infra-spinatus muscles. Through the wasting of these muscles the spine of the scapula appears very prominent. The paralysis of the •supra-spinatus causes some impairment in the power of raising the arm, and a tired sensation after this movement. Paralysis of the infra- spinatus causes some impairment in the outward rotation of the humerus, which produces diffi- culty in moving the pen along the line in writing, and also difficulty in sewing. The circumflex nerve may be paralysed through dislocation or injury at the shoulder, through the pressure of a crutch, and from exposure to cold; occasionally isolated paralysis of this nerve (through neuritis) occurs in diabetes mellitus. The symptoms consist in paralysis of the deltoid muscle, with or without loss of sensa- tion over the lower part of that muscle. The arm cannot be raised to the horizontal posi- tion. When an attempt is made to raise the .arm into this position the shoulder is elevated by the trapezius and serratus magnus, whilst the arm hangs nearly vertically at the side. Ankylosis of the shoulder produces a similar in- .ability to raise the arm; but the ankylosis can be easily detected by making passive movements. Bilateral paralysis of the deltoids has followed sleeping with the arms raised and the hands clasped behind the head. The writer has re- •corded bilateral paralysis produced by pressure through the patient being kept in bed in one position, on the back, for a month, on account of a fractured leg. The Median Nerve.—This nerve supplies the two pronators, the flexors of the wrist and fingers (excepting the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus), the ■opponens, abductor, the long flexor, and outer head of the short flexor of the thumb, and the two radial lumbricales. When the nerve is paralysed above the point of origin of all the muscular branches, the muscles named are paralysed. Pronation is lost. The wrist cannot be flexed except to the ulnar side. The thumb is in an extended and abducted position, and ■cannot be opposed to the tips of the fingers. The patient is unable to flex the second phal- anges of the fingers on the first ] he is also un- able to flex the distal phalanx of the first and second fingers; but he can flex this phalanx in the third and fourth fingers by means of the ulnar half of the flexor profundus which is not paralysed. He can flex at the knuckles by the action of the interossei. Thei'e is wasting of the thenar muscles. When the lesion of the nerve is below the origin of the branches to the forearm muscles, only the small muscles of the hand suff"er. The median nerve supplies the sensory fibres to the radial side of the palm, the front of the thumb, the first and second fingers, and half of the third ; and in many persons to the back of the last phalanx of the index and middle finger ; sometime also to the back of the last phalanx of the thumb and the back of the radial half of the last phalanx of the ring finger. The ana3sthesia produced by lesion of the median is variable. Sometimes it corresponds to the sensory dis- tribution named. In other cases the dorsal anaesthesia has extended over both the middle and end phalanges of the first and second fingers, over the radial part of these phalanges of the " third " fingers, whilst the back of the thumb has not been aff"ected (Schultze). Trophic change may occur in the skin and nails. Causes of Paralysis.—Isolated lesion of the nerve is rare. Its causes are chiefly wounds and implication of the nerve in fractures of the bones of the forearm. In a few cases Esmarch's bandage has injured the nerve. Occasionally puerperal mononeuritis has caused the lesion. In other rare cases it has been paralysed in certain occupations—in cigarette-makers, joiners, locksmiths, etc. The Ulnar Nerve.—This nerve supplies the following muscles : flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum, the hypothenar muscles, the interossei, the two ulnar lumbricales, the adductor and inner head of the short flexor of the thumb. When the ulnar nerve is paralysed the hand deviates to the radial side on fle.xion at the wrist, and in time this deviation becomes per- manent. Owing to the paralysis of the inter- ossei and two ulnar lumbricales, the fingers cannot be flexed at the first joints (knuckles) or extended at the others. In this respect the first two fingers are less affected than the third and fourth, because their two (radial) lumbricales are supplied by the median nerve. In time the con- traction of the opponents of the paralysed inter- ossei produces over-extension of the first phal- anges and flexion of the others, so that a " claw hand" develops. But the first two fingers have not the distinct claw position like the third and fourth fingers. The fingers cannot be adducted or abducted. The thumb cannot be adducted. The little finger cannot be op- posed to the thumb, it cannot be abducted. The muscles of the hypothenar eminence are wasted, the palm of the hand is hollowed, and the depressions between the metacarpal bones are well marked.10 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF The ulnar nerve supplies sensory fibres to the ulnar side of the hand (palmar and dorsal surface) and also to one and a half fingers on the palmar surface, and to two and a half on the back of the hand (counting from the ulnar side). The antesthesia produced by paralysis of the nerve is variable, and not always pro- portionate to the lesion ; according to Schultze, the little finger is antesthetic both on its palmar and dorsal surfaces; the ulnar half of the ring finger is anaesthetic on the palmar surface. On the back of the hand there is in addition anses- thesia over the whole of the proximal phalanx, and over the ulnar half of the two distal phal- anges of the ring finger; also over the ulnar half of the proximal phalanx of the middle finger. Causes of Paralysis. — The nerve may be injured by bone or callus through fractures of the lower end of the humerus or of its internal condyle, or by fracture of the bones of the fore- arm. Dislocation at the elbow or shoulder, wounds at the elbow or in the forearm, may implicate the nerve. Prolonged flexion of the elbow (during sleep) may cause paralysis of the nerve. In rare cases it has been paralysed through pressure at the elbow and through neuritis in the puerperium. Ansesthesia in the region of the ulnar nerve sometimes occurs in general paralysis of the insane and in tabes dorsalis (Biernacki). The musculo-spiral nerve is (owing to the great distance for which it lies upon the unyielding humerus) more commonly injured than is any other important trunk. Open wounds are by no means common, but it is especially liable to suffer from crutch paralysis, from dislocations of the shoulder and fractures of the humerus, and from sleeping with the arm thrown over the back of a chair or sofa, or beneath the back of its owner ; as in the latter conditions sleep is generally alcoholic, a clear history of the circum- stances must not be expected. The motor symptoms are essentially those of paralysis of the extensors of the wrist and fingers, and of the supinators of the wrist, the paralysed muscles being the supinator longus and brevis, the radial and idnar extensors, extensor communis digitorum, and extensors of the thumb, index, and little fingers. If the lesion be high up, as in crutch paralysis, the triceps and anconeus are also affected; if it be below the origin of the branches to these muscles the wrist and hand will alone suffer. The position is character- istic : the wrist is flexed and pronated; the fingers and thumb are flexed upon the palm, but the terminal phalanges can be partially extended by the interossei and lumbricales if the wrist and proximal phalanges be supported. When the triceps is affected the elbow is slightly flexed and cannot be actively extended. AnfBS- thesia presents itself in the distribution of the external cutaneous branches on the outer side of the elbow and forearm, and in that of the radial nerve (infra). In the great majority of cases due to contusions, as from crutches or from sleeping in strained positions, the motor symptoms will alone be prominent; antesthesia is often slight or altogether absent, and trophic lesions are very rare : such cases usually recover within a week or two. The radial nerve, which is the principal sen- sory branch of the musculo-spiral, suffers with that trunk, and is liable to section in cuts about the wrist. Its distribution is sensory only, and includes that portion of the back of the hand and digits which lies to the radial side of the middle line of the ring finger, with the exception of the terminal portion of the digits supplied by overlapping branches of the median nerve. The lumbosacral plexus is liable to injury by intra-pelvic growths, and by the pressure of the foetal head during parturition ; its branches are- also often pressed upon by the exudation of sacro- iliac disease, and may be injured in fractures of the pelvis. Such conditions usually produce only neuralgiform pains with some weakness of the lower limbs. Paralysis and anaesthesia are rarely if ever complete, and the anterior crural and obturator divisions are much less sviscept- ible of injury than is the great sciatic, while the pelvic organs suffer little as they receive a bilateral nerve-supply. The extent and dis- tribution of the symptoms in the lower limbs present variations so wide as hardly to admit of description. Owing to the position of the cords of the plexus they are not open to operative treatment. Owing to its deep position the great sciatic nerve is rarely injured, but it is extremely sus- ceptible to pressure from disease. Its painful affections will be considered in the article upon sciatica ; and the effects of injury are similar to- those of combined lesions of the internal and external popliteal nerves. The anterior crural nerve is rarely paralysed by injury or pressure ; it supplies the extensor muscles of the knee-joint, and the skin of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg and foot. The exter7ial j)opliteal nerve is liable to the ordinary results of disease and injury, and is especially prone to pressure from enlargement of the bursa beneath the biceps tendon, and to injury from tight bandaging and splints about the knee-joint, from fractures of the neck of the fibula, and from careless tenotomy of the biceps tendon. It supplies the extensor muscles- of the ankle and toes, the peroneal muscles, and the skin of the dorsum of the foot. The internal popliteal nerve is very rarely involved in disease or injury; it supplies the muscles of the calf, the flexors of the ankle and foot, and the muscles of the sole, while its cutaneous distribution is to the calf and sole.11 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF Tumours The term neuroma is commonly applied to tumours of two distinct pathological classes, viz., true neuromata, which consist of nerve ele- ments, and false neuromata, pseudo-neuromata or neuro-fibromata, which originate in nerves, but are composed of a more or less modified connective tissue ; the inflammatory swellings formed at the cut ends of nerves are also described clinically as " amputation neuromata," although they have nothing in common with true tumours. A. True neuroma is an extremely rare form of tumour ; it may consist either of cells re- sembling those of the central organs, or of fibres which may or may not be medullated, and thus we have three anatomical varieties—the gan- glionic, the myelinic, and the amyelinic. Gan- glionic neuroma is found only in close connection with the brain and spinal cord, and especially about the root of the nose or inner angle of the orbit; growths consisting of nerve-fibres are generally associated with the sympathetic system, and they also often contain ganglionic cells. All these rare tiimours are generally met with at the time of or shortly after birth; they are well encapsuled, and are absolutely benign. Pathologically there can be no doubt that they are of the nature of congenital malformations due to displacement or irregular development of nervous structures. Although of little prac- tical importance they may occasionally require excision, especially when they appear upon the face. It is interesting to note that dermoid cysts occasionally contain ganglionic cells. B. The false neuromata are of greater fre- quency and importance. Omitting such inflam- matory conditions as amputation neuroma and the lesions of leprosy and certain other infective diseases, we find a number of clinical varieties built up from a comparatively simple anatomical basis. They belong to the connective-tissue group, and thus constitute fibromata, myxomata, lipomata, or sarcomata. They may be localised and encapsuled, or they may be widely diffused and disseminated along nerve-trunks in one or more regions of the body. They arise from the stroma of the nerves, and merely push aside the fibres of the latter, any proliferation of nervous tissue which may be met with being probably incidental and devoid of significance. I. The circumscribed or solitary tumours are generally simple fibromata; they may present myxomatous or fatty elements, or contain de- generation or exti-avasation cysts, and they may be sarcomatous. Angioma and lymphangioma are mere pathological curiosities. They are, as a rule, well encapsuled, of slow growth, and of comparatively small size. Such tumours are generally extremely painful and tender, but they do not, as a rule, cause any marked paralysis, anaesthesia, or trophic changes, except in the case of rapidly growing sarcomata. Their recognition depends mainly upon the site of the growth, the association of nervous symptoms, the eliciting of pain, cramp, etc. upon pressure, and their marked lateral mobility as contrasted with their fixation in the axis of the nerve. Excision is practicable in most cases, but often involves resection of a considerable portion of the aff'ected nerve, so that it may become a question whether the resulting lesion is or is not of more serious nature than the tumour itself. In some cases it is practicable to shell out the encapsuled growth, leaving intact the nerve-fibres, which lie to one side or scattered over its surface. A peculiar form of tumour is the painful subcutaneous nodule of Wood, which is a small hard fibroma, probably developed upon a ter- minal sensory branch. Such growths are ex- tremely painful, and lying as they do imme- diately beneath the skin, they are prone to irritation. They are sharply circumscribed, and in no way malignant. Circumscribed neuromata may arise within the vertebral canal upon the nerve-roots, and especially upon the cauda equina, in which case the pressure resulting from their confined situ- ation leads ultimately to paraplegia, which is capable of relief by operation. II. The diffused or generalised neuro-fibromata are also spoken of as neuro-fibromatosis, and various forms have received special designations from diff'erent writers. These masses are again fibromatous, myxomatous, orsarcomatous. They are generally multiple, and widely scattered throughout the nervous system. They may appear as numerous isolated masses, or as ex- tensive infiltrations of certain trunks, or of the nerves of certain regions. Commonly heredi- tary, they may be congenital, and probably all cases are due to developmental peculiarities —to a " form of gigantism or elephantiasis of the connective-tissue elements of the peripheral nervous system." In many cases, also, they are associated in their development with pre-existing cutaneous moles, and pigmentation of the super- jacent skin is a very common accompaniment of these growths. They are seldom very pain- ful or tender, nor do they, unless sarcomatous, usually produce marked disturbance of the nervous functions, but they become important from their multiplicity, their large size, their tendency to sarcomatous degeneration, the diffi- culty or impossibility of their excision, and their occasional involvement of the central nervous organs. 1. Molluscthm fihrosum is a form of neuro-fibro- matosis, presenting itself in the form of multiple subcutaneous masses of soft fibroma or fibro- myoma, with which may be associated similar masses on the deeper nerve-trunks. The sub- cutaneous nodules, which vary greatly in size, number, and distribution, are probably derived12 NERVES, PERIPHERAL, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF from the stroma of the smaller cutaneous nerves. They cause comparatively slight symptoms, and may persist for an indefinite number of years without producing results more serious than disfigurement. 2. Plexiform neuro-fibroma is a growth of similar nature, but differs in that, instead of forming numerous masses over the entire surface of the body, it is restricted to some one region, as the side of the head and neck. These masses grow to an enormous size, but still consist of fibrous, fibro-myxomatous, or fibro-sarcomatous growths of the nerves of the affected region. They form soft, doughy, often pendulous tumours composed of ramifying cords due to the huge nerves which produce their bulk. Closely allied is elephantiasis neuromatosa, in which the tumour growth spreads from the nerves to the subcu- taneous and other adjacent tissues, producing a general thickening which is also described as pachydermatocele. The great majority of these forms of diffused and disseminated neuro-fibroma are not suscept- ible of removal, and operation is the less advis- able, as it is commonly followed by rapidly infiltrating sarcomatous growths in such portions of the mass as may have to be left behind. When they affect the limbs, ampiitation is the most satisfactory method of treatment of severe cases. Meralgia Paresthetica A few years ago Bernhardt drew attention to a rare affection, characterised by partesthesia, in the distribution of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The patients complain of numbness, tingling or aching sensation, along the outer side of the thigh. Pain is only felt on great over-strain, or through pressure on the affected region. Often there is some subjective disturbance of sensation—hyperalgesia, hyper- sesthesia, diminution of tactile sensation or of the temperature sense. The paraesthesia is most marked, or is only present, when the patient is standing or walk- ing, probably because the fascia of the outer part of the thigh is then most tense. Pain does not occur when the patient is at rest. Roth has given the name meralgia paraes- thetica to the affection. The duration is variable, from a few months to many years. It is not followed by any other nerve lesion. In two cases faradism at the parsesthetic area has been followed by good results. Multiple Peripheral Neuritis General Etiology 12 Alcoholic Neuritis . . . .13 Arsenical ,, .... 17 Neuritis from Arsenical Beer . . 18 Lead Paralysis ..... 20 Mercurial Neuritis .... 22 Diphtheritic Neuritis . . . .22 Puerperal „ . . . .23 Diabetic ,, .... 23 Other Forms of Neuritis . . .24 Treatment . . . . . .24 General Etiology.—The most frequent cause of multiple peripheral neuritis is the action of some toxic substance on the nervous system. The most common form is "alcoholic" neuritis, produced by excess of alcoholic beverages— spirits and beer. Chronic poisoning by lead and arsenic are also common causes of peripheral neviritis. Rare cases have been recorded in which the disease has apparently been due to poisoning by the following substances—carbon disulphide, naphtha, dinitrobenzene, aniline oil, carbon mon- oxide, mercury, copper, zinc, and silver). The disease may be due to a previous infec- tious fever or acute illness. Diphtheria is the most common cause of neui'itis of this form. Cases are on record in which pai'alysis, apparently due to peripheral neuritis, has followed, and has been attributed to, typhoid fever, influenza, erysipelas, septicccmia, scarlet fever, pneumonia, acute rheumatism, gonorrhoea, malaria, dysentery. The tropical disease beriberi is a form of peripheral neuritis. Multiple neuritis occasionally follows parturi- tion or develops during pregnancy (puei'peral neuritis). A form of multiple neuritis associated with diabetes mellitus has been clearly demonstrated. Tuberculosis has occasionally caused multiple neuritis ; and a few rare cases are on record in which the disease has been attributed to syphilis, gout, and chronic rheumatism (Bury). In leprosy peripheral neuritis is common. In rare cases of severe ansemia and in cancer, degeneration of the peripheral nerves has been found on microscopical examination, but often there have been no neuritic symptoms during life. In old age a form of peripheral neuritis has been described, which has been attributed to arterio-sclerosis. Occasionally the only cause appeal's to be exposure to cold ; and there are cases for which no cause can be made out (idiopathic multiple neuritis). Oppenheim and, more recently, Remak have drawn attention to the fact that a combination of toxic influences, such as lead or other metallic poison with alcohol, or of alcohol and the poison of some infectious disease, is particularly powerful in producing neuritis. A small dose of a poison, which cannot be regarded as toxic, is able to produce multiple neuritis when the individual is also under the influence of a second poison. Multiple neuritis occurs most frequently inNERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 13 individuals between the ages of twenty-five and fifty; with the exception of the diphtheritic form, it is very rare in children. General Pathology.—The symmetrical nature of the motor and sensory symptoms in multiple neuritis point to an altered blood condition as the cause. The etiology shows that this altered blood condition is due most frequently to the presence of a definite toxic substance. In the cases in which the neuritis follows an infectious disease, the cause is probably a toxin produced by the action of micro-orgauisms, and this has been proved in the case of diphtheria. Multiple peripheral neuritis is characterised pathologically by degeneration of the finest branches of the peripheral nerves—in other words, by degeneration of the most distal part of the axon of the lower or peripheral neuron. This is the chief change. The degeneration rapidly diminishes towards the cord and the larger nerve-trunlss, aud the nerve-cells of the anterior horns of grey matter often appear quite normal, even when examined by the most modern methods of staining. In other cases slight changes are noted in the nerve-cells, which are often probably secondary to those in the peripheral portions of their axons (the finest peripheral nerves). The poison causing neuritis frequently aff'ects other parts of the system besides the finest peripheral nerves (as the brain in alcoholic neuritis). Hence slight changes found in nerve-cells of the cord have been attributed, in some cases, to the primary action of tlie poison. Forms of Multi-pie Neuritis. — Four forms have been described according to the nature of the most prominent cUnical symptoms—(1) mixed sensory and motor, (2) sensory, (3) motor, (4) ataxic (pseudo-tabes). Also acute and chronic forms have been described according to the onset; and ascend- ing and descending forms according to the course of the symptoms. But it appears most practical to describe the symptoms separately, according to the cause. Alcoholic Multiple Neuritis. — The most common form of multiple neuritis is that pro- duced by the drinking of alcoholic beverages— " alcoholic" peripheral neuritis. It is caused by excess of spirits or beer, and it is stated that wine may produce it also. In Manchester, during the year 1900, a large number of cases of peripheral neuritis occurred in persons whose alcoholic beverage was exclusively or chiefly beer, ale, or stout. At the end of 1900 Dr. E. S. Reynolds made the interesting and import- ant discovery that Manchester beer contained arsenic, and it was soon found that a large quantity of the beer sold in the north of England and midland counties was also con- taminated more or less with arsenic. As arsenic is a poison which is capable of producing neuritis, this discovery naturally has received much attention. [Multiple neuritis from ar- senical beer will be subsequently considered.] Apparently it has not hitherto been the custom to test beer for arsenic as an impurity, and it is impossible to say, of course, how much of the multiple neuritis from beer drinlting in the past has been produced by arsenical beer. Whether beer free from arsenic is capable, in large quantities, of producing multiple neuritis (as has been generally believed hitherto) will be clearly shown by future experience, as for many years, at least, beer sold in England will be free from arsenic. As regards the etiology of alcoholic neuritis, we are therefore limited, at the present time, to the consideration of cases from the drinking of spirits ; and even the importance of alcohol ])er se has been recently called in question by Dr. Reynolds since arsenic was discovered in beer. Many of the earlier cases of peripheral neuritis, recorded when the disease first began to attract attention, were in spirit drinkers. Sir W. Gowers and many other writers state that alcoholic neuritis results chiefly from the stronger forms of alcohol, especially spirits. The late Dr. Ross, in an analysis of 90 cases (77 of which were collected from medical literature) foimd the form of alcoholic beverage to be given as follows : in 22, spirits—brandy, whisky, gin, or rum; in 3, absinthe or vermouth; in 13, beer and spirits ; in 5, beer only; in 47, the form of alcohol was not stated. [In Manchester, of course, there can be no doubt that for many years beer alone (? arsenical or non-arsenical) has been very much more frequently the cause of multiple neuritis than would be indicated by the figures just mentioned.] There can be no doubt that multiple neuritis occurs in intemperate individuals whose chief alcoholic beverage is spirits. The writer is unable to obtain definite statistics as to whether multiple neuritis is more frequent or less fre- quent in countries where the chief alcoholic drink is stated to be spirits. In Scotland it is generally believed that spirits are drunk much more freely than in England, and certainly the statistics in the Edinburgh hospital reports do not indicate that the disease is less frequent there than in London. [During five years (1892-97) at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary there were 24,065 medical in-patients, and of these 144 suffered from alcoholic peripheral neuritis—ratio, 5 "9, nearly 6 in every 1000. At St. Thomas's Hospital, London, during five years (1894-98) there were 9450 medical in-patients, and of these 34 suffered from alcoholic neuritis, 9 from peripheral neuritis of doubtful origin, i.e. 43 cases possibly due to alcoholic neuritis—ratio, 4-5 per 1000.] There are two other questions with regard to neuritis from spirit drinking which may be here referred to:—(1) It may be asked. AreNERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS not spirit drinkers frequently beer drinkers also, and if so, may not the neuritis be due to arsenical beer rather than spirits'? (2) If neuritis is produced by spirits only, is it due to the alcohol, or to the presence of arsenic as an impurity t With regard to the first question, it must be admitted that spirit drinkers frequently take beer also. There have been numerous cases, however, in which the influence of beer can be almost excluded. But quite recently, since so much attention has been paid to this question, several cases of neuritis from spirit drinking have been already published, in which beer can be definitely excluded as an etiological factor. As regards the second question, the writer is not aware that any analysis of spirits has yet shown the presence of arsenic. In a case of peripheral neuritis from excessive whisky drinking recently recorded by the writer, in which the diagnosis was verified by microscopical examination of the peripheral nerves, beer drinking could be definitely ex- cluded in the causation. Also, three samples of whisky obtained from the same source as that from which the patient was supplied, gave no reaction for arsenic with Reinsch's test. Hence there appears to be no reason for doubting the correctness of the common opinion that alcoholic beverages, especially spirits, are capable of pro- ducing peripheral neuritis apart from arsenic as an impurity. To be strictly logical, it has not been defi- nitely proved that pure ethyl alcohol produces peripheral neuritis in man, since no one takes pure ethyl alcohol as a beverage. Whether the ethyl alcohol or some organic impurity, such as furfural, is the chief toxic agent in the production of neuritis from spirit drinking remains to be decided. But until it has been clearly shown that ethyl alcohol is not the cause, it appears justifiable to describe by the name alcoholic neuritis all those cases of peri- pheral neuritis from the drinking of alcoholic beverages, in which there is no evidence of the presence of aiiy other poison known to be ■capable of producing neuritis. Symptoms.—The onset is usually somewhat gradual or subacute, rarely rapid. The patient complains of numbness and tingling (or of " pins-and-needles sensation") in the toes and fingers, which also feel "dead." He suffers from cramps especially in the calf muscles, and from gnawing or tearing pains in the limbs, especially in the legs. The pains are increased by movements and by pressure. When the muscles of the calf are grasped great pain is produced (muscular hyperalgesia). Sometimes touching tlae skin produces pain. Often there is hypertesthesia, especially of the feet, which renders walking difficult. Slight constitutional disturbance, with a little elevation of tempera- ture, may be pi-esent for a short time just at the commencement of the affection. Soon signs of muscular weakness are noted in addition to the sensory symptoms. The toes become " dropped," and there is difficulty in extending them. The feet become " dropped," and the patient cannot dorsiflex them. In walking, the feet are dropped, and the knees must be raised unusually high in order to clear the dropped feet from the ground (high-stepping gait). Occasionally the gait is somewhat ataxic (nevro-tabes pe7-ipherique). The knee-jerks are lost early. Occasionally, just at the earliest stage, the knee-jerks are present or even a little increased ; but they usually disappear very soon). The weakness in the legs gradually increases until walking is impossible. When the disease has become well developed the patient presents the following symptoms :— Motor.—Both legs are symmetrically para- lysed. The peronei and anterior tibial muscles are most affected. The feet and toes are bent towards the sole and cannot be bent upwards (cannot be dorsiflexed) towards the ankles— dropped feet aud toes. Often the feet are a little inverted because the tibialis anticus muscle is less affected than the other muscles on the front of the leg. The tibialis anticus tendon is often prominent, and the patient is sometimes able to slightly invert the foot when he is unable to dorsiflex it. In the less severe forms the patient can flex at the hips and knees ; but in advanced cases the legs may be almost completely paralysed, the patient being able to perform slight movements at the hips only. The muscles of the legs, especially those of the anterior tibial group, undergo atrophy. On electrical examination the affected muscles often present a diminution of faradic and galvanic excitability: with the galvanic current the K.C.C. may be greater than A.C.C. as in health ; or the K.C.C. and A.C.C. may be equal. A reaction of degeneration (with absence of faradic excitability, and A.C.C. > K.C.C), but with diminution of galvanic excitability, occurs only in advanced cases. In the most severe forms, the muscles chiefly implicated may lose all excitability both to faradism and galvanism. The excitability both to galvanism and faradism in the nerves is diminished and finally lost. The knee-jerks are absent; the plantar reflexes are very feeble or absent; ankle clonus is absent. In many cases the arms are not affected ; in severe eases both arms are paralysed, but not so markedly as the legs. The extensors of the fingers and wrists on both sides are most affected, as in lead paralysis ; tlie wrists and fingers are dropped, and the patient is unable to extend them. The dropping of the fingers is most marked in the little finger, and gradually becomes a little less from the little finger to the index finger. The supinator longus is spared in many cases just as in lead paralysis. In severe cases the flexors of the fingers and wrist are aff'ected more or less; but the flexorNERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 15 muscles of the elbow and the upper arm muscles are rarely involved. In rare cases the small muscles of the hands are affected. The paralysis of the legs and arms is bilateral and symmetrical. The intercostal and abdominal muscles are unaffected. The bladder and rectum are not paralysed. In a few rare cases there has been slight difficulty in micturition or a little drib- bling of urine ; but true retention or inconti- nence does not occur. Sensory.—When the neuritis is fully developed the early subjective sensory symptoms, already mentioned, persist. There are severe pains in the affected limbs, of a gnawing or tearing character, and these are increased by passive or active movements, or by touching the limbs. Superficially situated nerve-trunks may be tender, and are occasionally thickened. A prominent symptom in most cases is the intense pain caused by squeezing the muscles, especially those of the calf (muscular hyper- algesia) : it is best marked in the legs, but the arms often suffer also. In rare cases this symptom is slight. The patient also suffers from numbness and tingling in the legs and arms. Tactile sensation in the limbs is diminished and finally lost in severe cases, but complete anaesthesia in large areas is rare. The impaired sensation when present is most marked at the periphery of the limb, and gradually gives place to normal sensation towards the proximal part. When sensibility to tactile impression is diminished, often there is hypersesthesia for pain. Sensory symptoms are occasionally very slight, whilst the motor are well marked (motor form of the disease). Sometimes diminished sense of the position of the toes is the only subjective sensory symptom (Oppenheim). Hypertemia, with sweating of the hands and feet, are common symptoms, and occasionally the skin becomes glossy. In a few cases ulcers have developed on the feet. Sometimes in severe cases there is a little oedema of the feet and, exceptionally, a little effusion into the joints. Girdle sensations do not occur. Bed-sores very rarely occur, and when present they are superficial. There is no spinal curvature or pain. The pupils are usually normal, and react well to light and accommodation (but diminution or loss of the latter reflex has been recorded by Sir Lauder Brunton). Generally there is no paralysis of the facial, ocular, and tongue muscles. Very rarely double facial paresis has been recorded, and in a few excep- tional cases there has been paralysis of ocular muscles. Nystagmus is not infrequent. The optic discs are nearly always normal; but in very rare instances optic neuritis has been recorded, or partial optic atrophy with pallor of the temporal half of each disc. Central scotomata for colours have been also recorded in a few cases. Psychical sj'mptoms (polyneuritic psychosis of Korsakow) are often present, such as mental confusion, impairment of memory—especially for recent events,—and delusions about recent actions. Thus a patient who has been confined to bed for weeks or months, and who is so confused mentally as to be unable to tell the day, date, or month, or her address, will often give a detailed account of a walk she declares she has had the same or the previous day, stating the houses she has visited, the friends she had met, and the drinks she has had. In most cases of alcoholic neuritis, sensory and motor symptoms are combined (mixed form). In the early stages the sensory are the most prominent, and occasionally the motor symptoms never become marked (sensory form). Occa- sionally the motor symptoms are prominent and the sensory very slight (motor form). In a rare form ataxia of the legs and arms is the most prominent symptom (pseudo-tabes); but in such cases motor and sensory symptoms are present, though slight, and clearly indicate the nature of the disease. Course and Prognosis.—In most cases a few weeks elapse before the disease reaches its fullest development, then for a long period the affection is stationary, and finally gradual re- covery occurs. Usually the termination is in partial or complete recovery, but the peronei often remain weak long after the other muscles have recovered. Sometimes permanent con- traction of the calf muscles leads to deformity of the feet. In many cases, however, a fatal termination occurs. This may be due to paralysis of the diaphragm, tuberculosis of the lungs, cardiac failure, disease of the liver, or pneumonia. When the diaphragm is paralysed, the epi- gastrium and upper part of the abdomen sink in at each inspiration and the descent of the liver can no longer be felt. The abdomen protrudes and the liver descends on expiration. Expectoration and coughing become difficult; there is also difficulty in straining at stool and on micturition. A basal pneumonia often develops. [In normal quiet breathing, when the patient's attention is not directed to the respiratory move- ments, at each inspiration the chest expands, and the abdomen is protruded just below the ribs and the viscera descend.] Alcoholic heart muscle failure may lead to oedema of the legs and other signs of cardiac disease (see article on " Heart, Diseases of "). Tuberculosis is a most serious complication. It is incurable, and is a very common cause of the fatal termination in peripheral neuritis. It is often latent for a long pei'iod at first, and the pathological lesions are usually much more extensive than is suspected from the clinical signs. The diagnosis of alcoholic neuritis in a markedNERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 16 case is easy. Symmetrical bilateral flaccid paresis or paralysis, with dropped feet, dropped wrist, absent knee-jerks, and gi-eat muscular hyperalgesia, is always very suggestive of peripheral neuritis, when the bladder and rectum are unaffected. The diagnosis from transverse or compression myelitis and from other transverse lesions of the cord is easy when these affections give rise to a spastic paralysis. In such cases the increased knee-jerks, ankle clonus, rigidity of the legs (or spastic gait), and the paralysis of bladder and rectum exclude peripheral neuritis. The chief difficulty is when these cord affections are in the lumbar region, or when they give rise to flaccid paralysis with absent knee-jerks. Iti such cord lesions the bladder and rectum are paralysed, and deep sacral bed-sores often develop; whilst these symptoms are absent in peripheral neuritis. Also in peripheral neuritis there is the marked muscular hyperalgesia, and often the mental symptoms already described; a girdle sensation is absent; as the affection extends to the upper part of the body the wrists are dropped before the intercostals are paralysed; and the anaesthesia is most marked in the periphery of the limbs, and gradually fades away towards the proximal part. In the cord affections mentioned muscular hyperalgesia is absent or slight; the intercostals are paralysed before the arms in the upwards extension of the disease, and the anaesthesia is often sharply limited to the distribution of definite nerve- roots. In acute anterior poliomyelitis of the adult the sudden onset of the paralysis, the absence of muscular hypersesthesia, and the absence of anaesthesia or sensory disturbances are usually sufficient to separate the affection from peri- pheral neuritis. The diagnosis from tabes dorsalis requires to be considered chiefly in the ataxic form of peripheral neuritis. In favour of true tabes dorsalis would be the Argyll-Robertson pupil, the sharp, shooting nature of the pains in the legs, the absence of true paresis or paralysis, the girdle sensations, and (if present) optic atrophy. In peripheral neuritis the pupils almost invariably react to light; there is distinct paresis with some dropping of the feet and high-steppage gait (even in the ataxic form); also the muscular hyperalgesia, the gnawing character of the pains, the absence of girdle sensations, the absence of crises, the history of alcoholic excess and the more rapid development of symptoms would point to peri- pheral neuritis. In the early stages of alcoholic neuritis, when pain is the chief symptom, the affection may be mistaken for rheumatism. In peripheral neuritis the pain is in the muscles; in articular rheumatism, in the joints. Marked muscular hyperassthesia, absent knee-jerks, numbness and tingling, dropping of the toes or feet, and the bilateral and symmetrical nature of the affection would be in favour of peripheral neuritis. The diagnosis of alcoholic neuritis from other forms of peripheral neuritis depends chiefly on the history; also indications of other poisons, or in some cases peculiarities in the sympto- matology may be of diagnostic value (see other forms of neuritis). The alcoholic beverage should be examined for arsenic when the amount taken has been small or the form chiefly beer. Pathological Anatomy. — Changes are con- stantly found in the peripheral nerves, some- times also in the muscles and central nervous system. But the changes in the central nervous system are inconstant and usually slight; those in the peripheral nerves the most advanced, consisting of a neuritis, generally of the paren- chymatous or degenerative form. For transverse section, the nerves may be hardened in Muller's fluid and stained according to Weigert's method. A simple method of examination of the peripheral nerves is by fixing and staining directly in a 1 per cent osmic acid solution, and afterwards staining with alum carmine or picro-carmine. The finest muscular branches should be carefully removed and placed directly in the osmic acid. The muscular branches of the anterior tibial or musculo-spiral nerve are suitable for examina- tion. The changes are best seen in the finest muscular and cutaneous branches; they diminish greatly in intensity in the larger branches, and may be absent in the large nerve-trunks. The parenchymatous neuritis is best marked in the nerves of the limbs (such as the branches of the anterior tibial or the musculo-spiral). The writer has found it also in the phrenic nerve when death has occurred from paralysis of the diaphragm. It has been occasionally found in the vagus nerve. In the affected nerves the myelin of the white substance of Schwann is broken up into small globular, oval, or irregular masses, and in advanced cases the axis cylinder is also broken up. The nuclei of the nerve-fibres undergo proliferation. In advanced cases, the nerve- sheath contains only proliferated nuclei and clusters of fatty globules from the degenerated myelin. In some fibres the globules of de- generated myelin are collected at intervals into spindle-shaped swellings, separated by naked axis cylinders or empty nerve-sheaths. An increase of the connective tissue of the nerve- fibres is rare. But occasionally, in addition to the parenchymatous changes just described, a broadening of the perineurium, or an increase of the interstitial fibrous tissue between the nerve-fibres, has been observed, i.e. a combina- tion of parenchymatous and interstitial neuritis. Hypersemia and swelling of the affected nerves is very rare.17 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS The muscle tissue on microscopical examina- tion often appears normal. Sometimes changes are observed. The muscular fibres may be simply diminished in size, the transverse stria- tion being preserved ; or the transverse striation may be lost, the fibre degenerated, the nuclei of the sarcolemma and perimysium proliferated, and the perimysium broader than in the normal condition. The diseased fibres are often mixed with normal fibres. In a few cases marked muscular changes have been observed—granular and fatty degeneration of the muscle fibres, with marked proliferation of interstitial nuclei and interstitial connective tissue (marked paren- chymatous and interstitial muscular changes). The blood-vessels in the nerves and muscles are often normal, but they may present thicken- ing of all their coats, with surrounding cell proliferation. When the lumen of the vessels is greatly narrowed, the vascular changes may then increase those in the nerves and muscles. Vascular changes, when present, are seen in other parts also. Microscopical changes in the central nervous system are rare, and when present are usually slight. By the older methods of examination the cord and its nerve-cells usually appear quite normal. [In a few rare cases recorded by Leyden, Oppenheim, and others, in addition to the peripheral neuritis there was atrophy of the cells of the anterior horns, or diffused or dis- seminated patches of inflammation, or patches of poliomyelitis. But such changes have been too rare or too slight to throw any doubt on the peripheral nature of the disease.] By recent methods of examination, slight changes have been sometimes found in the spinal cord when stained according to Nissl's method. Disappearance of the Nissl's granules of the nerve-cells of the anterior horn has been observed along with a lateral displacement of the cell nucleus. These changes are probably secondary to those in the peripheral nerves (reaction a distance of Mai-inesco). They are not constant (Dejerine and Thomas). By staining the cord according to Marchi's method degenerated fibres have been sometimes found, especially in the posterior columns (Campbell, Soukhanoff), in Lissauer's zone, and occasionally in other parts. Arsenical Neuritis.—This form of multiple neuritis has followed acute arsenical poisoning from a single large dose of arsenic. In other cases it has been due to chronic poisoning from pigments containing arsenic, and from various forms of slow poisoning. Occasionally it has been produced by arsenic given in large medi- cinal doses for chorea and other affections. Osier states, however, that only one case has followed the use of liquor arsenicalis in his hospital practice, although he is " in the habit of giving, in chorea and anaemia, doses which VOL. VII might be regarded as excessive." Amongst 312 cases of chorea treated with liquor arseni- calis, Railton has met with 3 cases of arsenical neuritis, and he states that many other children had the same or larger doses of arsenic without neuritis being produced. [Neuritis from arsenical beer is considered in the next section of this article. Vide infra.'\ Symptoms.—In some cases the neuritic symp- toms have developed a few days or a few weeks after the gastro-intestinal symptoms produced by acute poisoning. In other cases the gastro- intestinal symptoms have been slight or absent, and the neuritic symptoms have developed gradually. Sometimes conjunctivitis is present at the onset. The nervous symptoms commence with pain, numbness, and tingling in the legs, or legs and arms (most marked in feet and hands). The pain is often greater than in alcohol neuritis, and is both superficial and deep-seated in the limbs. The muscles and superficially situated nerves are very tender on pressure. Loss of power develops in the legs, and the feet are dropped just as in alcoholic neuritis. The arms are often paralysed ; the common extensor muscles of the forearm are most affected, and there is double-dropped wrist. But the flexors and the small muscles of the hand are often paralysed also, and this occurs more frequently than in alcoholic or lead neuritis. Usually there is paresis or paralysis in all four limbs. Sometimes the paralysis is limited to the legs, but it is scarcely ever limited to the arms. The affected muscles undergo atrophy. Fibrillary twitchings are said to be more frequently present than in alcoholic or lead neuritis. On electrical ex- amination there is a diminished excitability, or a reaction of degeneration may occur. The knee-jerks disappear; the plantar and cremas- teric reflexes are diminished or absent. In addition to the sensory symptoms already mentioned there is often hypersesthesia; which is followed by diminution or loss of tactile sensation. Hyperalgesia is often present, or there may be hyperalgesia with loss of tactile sensibility. Ataxia is often noted, and it is sometimes a prominent symptom; usually it is combined with motor paresis. Sweating of the hands and feet is common. The skin may become glossy, and often other skin affections are observed, such as pigmenta- tion (diffused bronzing, like that in Addison's disease, or circumscribed small pigmented spots), erythema, herpes zoster, hyperkeratosis. There is often falling off of the hair. The pigmenta- tion and skin lesions are not always present. Diagnosis.—In all cases of neuritis of doubtful origin the possibility of arsenic being the cause of the neuritis should be considered. If arsenic is entering the system it may be possible to detect it in the urine. (The writer has detected 218 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS arsenic in the urine by Reinsch's test when only three minims of liquor arsenicalis were being taken three times a day.) It may also be detected in some cases in the hair, nails, and desquamating epidermis. Gastro-intestinal symptoms, or conjunctivitis at the onset, or the presence of pigmentation of the skin or herpes zoster, may indicate the diagnosis. The ex- amination of food or beverages for arsenic may be necessary in doubtful cases. The prognosis is favourable. Recovery usu- ally occurs if the entrance of arsenic into the system is stopped. Secondary contraction of the flexor muscles of the hands and feet may cause troublesome deformities. Pathological Aumtomy.—In the few cases on record in which microscopical examination of the nervous system has been made, the changes found have consisted of a parenchymatous neu- I'itis of the peripheral nerves, with atrophy of nerve-cells and fine nerve-fibres in the anterior horns of grey matter. In one case there was also degeneration in the columns of GoU. Epidemic of Peripheral Neuritis due to Beer containing Arsenic.—During the latter half of 1900 a number of medical men in Manchester noted a great increase in the cases of peripheral neuritis in their practices. Ap- parently about the same time several medical men formed the opinion that probably some unusual toxic substance was present in Man- chester beer. But to Dr. E. S. Reynolds the credit is due of first suggesting that the beer contained arsenic, and of first detecting the presence of arsenic in it. Many cases coming under the care of Dr. Reynolds at the Man- chester Union Infirmary presented pigmentation and other affections of the skin suggestive of arsenical poisoning. In the practices of other medical men these associated skin aff'ections were absent or much less frequent. In 1888 an epidemic occurred at Hy^res owing to white arsenic being put into wine instead of gypsum. Dr. Reynolds concluded that in Manchester and district there was a widespread and unusual epidemic of peripheral neuritis " associated with running of the eyes and nose (in many cases), and marked lesions of the skin," that the affec- tion was only met with in drinkers of beer and porter, and that the cases differed from ordinary "alcoholic" paralysis by the "greater amount of sensory and vaso-motor disturbance, and especially in the presence of the peculiar skin lesions which are not usually present in alco- holic paralysis." He attributed the epidemic to the arsenic which he had found to be present in the beer. The presence of a small quantity of arsenic in beer was at once confirmed by others; it was found also in stout and ale. Through investiga- tions carried out by Professor D^lepine, Dr. Coutts, Mr. Tattersall, and Professor Dixon, the arsenical contamination was shown to be caused by the use of sulphuric acid, containing arsensic as an impurity, in the preparation of the glucose and invert sugar used in the brew- ing of the cheaper kinds of beer. One specimen of sulphuric acid contained as much as 14 per cent of arsenic (estimated as arsenious oxide); the glucose, 0"8 parts per 1000 ; and the invert sugar, 0'25 per 1000. Various specimens of beer were found to contain from 0'14 to 0 3 grains per gallon; a few examined later by other chemists were found to contain a larger amouni:—up to 1 grain per gallon. It was found that only the glucose made by one firm of sugar manufacturers was contaminated. As this firm supplied a large number of breweries in the north of England with the glucose used in brewing, the contamination of most of the beer was explained. In a few specimens of arsenical beer the contamination was traced to arsenic in the malt. The following cases of neuritis from arsenical beer may be mentioned as examples of the forms met with: — 1. Female, aged thirty.—For five years had taken one kind of stout and very rarely any other form of alcoholic beverage. Great excess denied. Making allowance for under-estimation, it is probable that amount was much less than four pints daily. Onset of illness with con- junctivitis ; it was also noted that the stout caused diarrhoea. Nervous systems similar to those of alcoholic neuritis. Legs and arms paralysed; dropped feet and dropped wrist; inability to walk ; absent knee-jerks ; muscular hyperalgesia, etc. On examination of specimens of the kind of stout taken, the writer found distinct evidence of arsenic by Reinsch's test. 2. Male, slight form.—Severe gnawing pains in legs and arms ; great tenderness of muscles ; inability to walk owing to pains in feet and legs ; knee-jerks present; no ansesthesia; no true paralysis; no pigmentation; history of beer drinking (great excess). On the first examination of the urine there was evidence of a small quantity of arsenic by Reinsch's test. Rapid recovery by rest in bed and abstinence from beer. 3. Female. — Neuritic symptoms like those of alcoholic neuritis. Bronzed diffused pigmen- tation, chiefly on chest. Symptomatology. — In some cases gastro- intestinal symptoms—vomiting and diarrhoea— were noticed at the onset of the illness ; in other cases, conjunctivitis. But usually these symp- toms were absent or indefinite. In many cases there was a condition of the feet resembling erythromelalgia. The soles of the feet were often very red, tender, and painful, and bathed in perspiration ; sometimes the palms of the hands were affected in the same way. Herpes zoster (unilateral) was present in a small pro- portion of the cases. Erythema, diffused or circumscribed, and hyperidrosis were often noted.NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 19 In some of the cases the skin was pigmented, presenting a diffused bronzed discoloration, like that of Addison's disease, or circumscribed macular or punctate pigmentation. Hyper- keratosis was the skin affection par excellence (Brooke and Leslie Roberts). It was best developed in the soles and palms, which pre- sented great thickening of the epidermis, with thick desquamating scales. In some cases there was a combination of erythema or pigmentation with the hyperkeratosis. The nervous symptoms were much the same as those of alcoholic neuritis. Of the sensory symptoms, pain in the limbs and feet, and great tenderness (hyperalgesia) of the muscles, were very prominent. The knee-jerks were often present, and increased at first for a very short period ; afterwards they disappeared. In addition to the detection of arsenic in the beer taken by many patients who suffered from neuritis from beer drinking, careful examination revealed the presence of this poison in the urine in a number of cases. Professor Dixon Mann and others found arsenic present in the desquamated epidermic scales, and also in the nails and hair. Post-mortem examination in some of the cases, but not in all, revealed a small quantity of arsenic in the internal organs. (For the detection of arsenic in beer and urine Reinsch's process appears to be the most con- venient for the medical practitioner.) A review of all the evidence published with respect to the peripheral neuritis in Manchester during the latter half of 1900, shows clearly that the increased prevalence of the disease can be largely attributed to the presence of arsenic in the beer. The analyses made by Mr. Kirkby of the kinds of beer which had been taken by a number of patients suffering from peripheral neuritis, gave an average of about O'll grain per gallon of arsenious oxide. The highest was ()"28 grain per gallon, the lowest O'Ol grain per gallon. Figures published by Professor Delepine gave the amount of arsenic as 0-14 to O'S grain per gallon. Afterwards, in several instances, larger quantities of arsenic were found. Many of the patients had taken very large quantities of beer, 1 to 1| or 2 gallons daily. As English beer contains usually about 5 per cent of alcohol, any individual taking one gallon of beer daily would consume about eight ounces of ethyl alcohol (equivalent to about sixteen ounces of brandy daily)—an amount of alcohol which would appear to be sufficient to cause neuritis apart from any arsenical contamination. All who believe that alcohol is capable of pro- ducing neuritis must admit that when the patient has taken very large quantities of ar- senical beer—more than a gallon daily—the resulting neuritis must be attributed in part, at least, to the alcohol. The arsenical con- tamination would, of course, increase the toxic action of the alcohol. In the case of the most contaminated specimens of beer examined by Dr. Delepine, a person consuming more than one gallon would take daily an amount of arsenic greater than that contained in ten minims of liquor arsenicalis three times a day. It is little wonder that the combination of the amount of alcohol just mentioned with this quantity of arsenic produced severe forms of neuritis. But in most of the specimens of beer examined the amount of arsenic in one gallon corresponded to much less than this qviantity. Also an interesting point, on which much stress has been laid, is the statement made by so many patients in the Manchester epidemic that the amount of beer taken had not been great— three or four glasses of the cheap beer daily. The amount of alcohol in the moderate quantity of beer taken by many of the patients would appear to be scarcely sufficient to cause neuritis. But, it may be asked. Would the amount of arsenic in these smaller quantities of beer be sufficient to produce neuritis 1 Making allowance for under-estimation of the quantity, it appears that many of the sufferers did not take more than three or four pints of beer daily. In some of the most contaminated specimens the amount of arsenic in this quantity of beer would be alone sufficient to produce the neuritis. But in nvimerous specimens the amount of ai-senic was small—from 0'14 to 0'3 grains per gallon (Professor Delepine's figures); and the amount in three pints would be equivalent to from two to four minims of liquor arsenicalis three times a day; and the amount in four pints would be equivalent to from about three to five minims of liquor arsenicalis three times a day. It has been pointed out by Sir Wm. Gowers and Dr. Buzzard that liquor arsenicalis can be taken medicinally, along with potassium bromide, for long periods by epileptic patients without neuritis being produced. Dr. R. W. Mackenna has shown that in cases treated with Donovan's solution for many months no neuritis is produced, although the amount of arsenic taken daily (as arseniovis iodide) is greater than the largest estimate given by Professor Delepine and Mr. Kirkby of the arsenious oxide in one gallon of beer. Also many patients suffering from anaemia, leucocythsemia, and Hodgkin's disease are often treated for long periods with quantities of liquor arsenicalis, which contain more arsenic than appears to have been taken by many of the sufferers from neuritis in the recent epidemic (judging from the analyses published by Dr. Delepine and Mr. Kirkby), and yet no neuritis has been produced. Gastro- intestinal symptoms and pigmentation of the skin appear to be produced much more readily than neuritis by large doses of arsenic given medicinally. But in medicinal doses the liquor arsenicalis is not associated with any other substance20 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS having a toxic effect on the peripheral nerves, whilst in arsenical beer it is associated with alcohol; and this probably explains the differ- ence of action. The amount of alcohol in four pints of beer (for example) would be about equivalent to that in eight ounces of brandy. The action of this quantity of alcohol, combined with that of a small dose of arsenic, might well explain the toxic effect on the peripheral nerves, though the same quantity of each alone may be insufficient to produce bad results. It appears to have been clearly proved that a very large number of cases of 2^eripheral neuritis in Manchester, during the epidemic of 1900, can be attribxUed to the increased toxic action of beer Giving to the ptresence of arsenic. In those cases in which very large quantities of beer have been taken, the amount of alcohol alone, and, in the more contaminated specimens, the amount of arsenic alone would be sufficient to account for the peripheral neuritis. Naturally the combination of the two would increase the toxic action of the beer. In the cases in which the quantity of beer consumed has not been great, probably the amount of arsenic present has sometimes been sufficient to produce neu- ritis, but in many cases, probably the quantity of arsenic taken has not exceeded what is often given for long periods medicinally without any neuritis being produced; but the combination of arsenic with alcohol has apparently caused the toxic action of the beer in such moderate quantities. The importance of combined toxic action has been already recognised, with reference to alco- holic and other metallic or organic poisons, by Professor Oppenheim in 1891, and by Professor Remak. They have pointed out that a small dose of a poison, which we cannot regard as toxic, is able to produce multiple neuritis when the individual is also under the influence of a second poison. Sir William Gower, Dr. Buzzard, Sir Lauder Brunton, and Dr. Luff have attached much importance to the combined toxic action in the Manchester epidemic {see discvission at the Medico-Chirurgical Society of London, January 8, and February 12, 1901). Lead Paralysis.—This form of neuritis affects usually the arms only, and the symptoms are mainly motor. It is produced by lead poisoning in its various forms, but chiefly by chronic poisoning. It may be due to the presence of a minute quantity of lead in the drinking water. It occurs in painters, plumbers, type-setters, file-makers, potters, etc., who use lead or its salts in their work. It may be produced by the use of hair-dyes, etc. containing lead ; or it may be due to lead-glaze of earthenware vessels. Lead paralysis is often preceded by other symptoms of plumbism, such as colic and con- stipation ; very rarely by pain in the muscles and joints ; occasionally by antemia or cachexia. Sometimes lead paralysis is the first indication of poisoning. Not infrequently the patient also pi'esents signs of arterio-sclerosis or granular kidney, or he may suffer from attacks of gout. In pregnant women abortion occurs. In lead paralysis a blue line is usually present on the gums, close to and between the teeth ; it may be absent, however, if the teeth are kept very clean. Lead paralysis usually affects both arms ; one a little before the other, very rarely one only. The onset of the paralysis is somewhat gradual. In the common form of the disease the extensor communis digitorum is the muscle first affected. This causes dropping of the third and fourth fingers, and the patient is unable to extend them ; whilst the index and little fingers can be extended since they possess additional ex- tensor tendons—those of the extensor indicis and the extensor minimi digiti respectively. Soon these muscles are also paralysed and all the fingers are dropped. If the extensors of the wrist are not affected, then the hand can be extended at the wrist when the fingers are flexed. But often the extensors of the wrist become paralysed also, and then both the fingers and wrist are completely dropped, and the patient cannot extend either. The extensor muscles of the thumb phalanges (E. primi and E. secundi internodii poUicis) become paralysed, whilst the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is spared for a time at least. When the affection is well marked the dropping of the fingers is usually greatest towards the ulnar side, the little finger being most "dropped," the index finger least. The flexor muscles are not para- lysed. The grasp is impaired, however, when the hand is in the dropped position; but when the hand is put into the extended position the grasp is good. The supinator longus is usually (but not invariably) unaffected. The paralysis of muscles is followed by wast- ing, and the reaction of degeneration is found on electrical examination. Sometimes there is a swelling over the back of the hand near the wrist (Gubler's tumour) owing probably to thickening of the tendon sheaths of the long extensors of the fingers and to prominence of the carpal bones. Usually only the muscles already mentioned are affected; but occasionally the thenar, hypo- thenar, and interossei muscles gradually become paralysed, and the paralysis is accompanied by wasting. In these muscles there is a diminution of the excitability to galvanism and faradism; and there may be a qualitative change to galvanism. Occasionally another type of lead paralysis is met with in which the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus are fii'st paralysed. The legs are generally unaffected and the knee-jerks present; in rare cases, however, the peronei and long extensors of the toes are21 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS affected, whilst the tibiahs anticus is spared. In rare cases the psoas, ihacus, and quadriceps extensor have been affected. Sensation is usually normal—pain, tender- ness, and ansesthesia being usually absent; in the rare cases in which these symptoms have been recorded they have been very slight. A fine tremor, increased by movements, is occasionally present in the hands. In rare cases paresis of the adductor and abductor muscles of the vocal cords has been detected. Optic neuritis occasionally develops; it may be due to associated granular kidney, or it may form one of the changes in albuminuric retinitis; but in other cases the kidneys are unaffected. When optic neuritis is found the lead poisoning is usually acute ; it is present when cerebral symptoms occur. Post-neuritic optic atrophy and amblyopia without ophthalmoscopic changes have been recorded in a few cases. Cerebral symptoms are occasionally met with, such as apoplexy (due to hsemorrhage or soften- ing), epileptic convulsions, and hysterical symp- toms. A rare cerebral complication is "lead encephalopathy," which almost invariably ter- minates fatally. In this affection the patient suffers from convulsions; delirium occurs, and coma finally develops. The temperature is raised to 100 or 101, and double optic neuritis is present. In females this serious complication is often preceded by hysterical symptoms. In rare cases mental disturbances, mania, melan- cholia, and progressive mental failure, have been recorded. Diagnosis. — Double-dropped wrist, due to bilateral paralysis of the extensor communis digitorum, without affection of the legs and with- out sensory symptoms, is generally due to lead poisoning. In the double-wrist drop in alcoholic or arsenical neuritis, pain, tenderness, and other sensory symptoms are usually very prominent, and the legs are also affected. The presence of a blue line on the gums is a most important indication of lead poisoning. A history of lead colic, and evidence of a source of lead poisoning, etc. are of much value in the diagnosis. The examination of the drinking-water or of the patient's urine for lead may be of service, though Dr. Dixon Mann has shown that the elimination of lead from the system is much greater by the bowels than by the kidneys. Prognosis.—If the patient is seen at the early stage of the paralysis, and the introduction of the poison into the system at once stopped, recovery soon occurs; if seen at a later stage, recovery is more prolonged. Death may occur from associated granular kidney, or in rare cases from lead encephalopathy. Pathological Anatomy, — The pathological changes in lead paralysis are most marked in the peripheral nerves of the arm, especially the posterior interosseous (radial) nerve. These changes are constantly found. They are most intense in the terminal intramuscular branches, and gradually diminish towards the central end of the nerve-fibres. In the larger nerve-trunks they are much slighter; the cords of the brachial plexus and the anterior nerve-roots are generally, and posterior nerve-roots always, unaffected. The changes consist of a parenchymatous or degenerative neuritis, and the connective tissue between the nerve-fibres is usually little affected; but occasionally an increase of the connective tissue of the epi-, peri-, and endo- neurium is found. In some fibres, presenting the early change, there is degeneration of the myelin sheath, which is broken up into globules and small blocks : the nerve nuclei are more numerous, and the surrounding protoplasm is increased ; but the axis cylinder is preserved. In other fibres, in addition to these changes the axis cylinder has degenerated also; whilst in the fibres most affected there is complete degenera- tion and disappearance of myelin and axis cylinder, and the nerve sheath is empty, with the exception of the nerve nuclei at short intervals. Gombault has described changes which he has been able to detect in guinea-pigs suffering from experimental chronic lead-poisoning. In the early stages he found in the same nerve- fibre diseased segments separated by healthy segments. In the former segments the myelin was broken up into fine granules; the proto- plasm around the nerve nuclei was increased and the nuclei proliferated, but the axis cylinder was unaffected. In other fibres the degenerated myelin globules were clustered into spindle- shaped swellings, which were separated from each other by naked axis cylinders. In the fibres most degenerated the myelin had entirely disappeared, and only the axis cylinders re- mained. Gombault distinguishes these changes from Wallerian degeneration — (1) by their discontinuity, diseased segments being separated by normal segments; (2) by the degeneration being limited to the myelin, whilst the axis cylinder is normal. To this form of degenera- tion he has given the name of " nevrite segmen- taire periaxile." But along with these changes usually fibres are found showing the true Wallerian degeneration. Gombault's periaxial neuritis is probably an early stage of Wallerian degeneration. It has been found in lead paralysis, alcoholic, diphtheritic, and puerperal neuritis. The spinal cord is normal in most cases of lead paralysis. In a few cases atrophy of nerve-cells in the anterior horn of the cervical region, with disappearance of fine nerve-fibres in the anterior horn, has been recorded. But these changes in the nerve-cells of the anterior horns are very rai'e; when present they are usually slight, and the changes in the peripheral nerves are much more advanced.22 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS (In a case examined by Laslett and War- rington, the nerve-cells of the anterior horns of the cervical region, at the level of the sixth and seventh segments, presented distinct clianges when stained according to Nissl's methylene blue method. The nuclei of the cells were placed very eccentrically, and the Nissl bodies of the cell protoplasm were dis- persed over the body of the cell in the form of fine powder. Often in the central mass of a cell an actual disappearance of the blue colour- ing matter was noticed, the result of a process of chromatolysis. The anterior nerve-roots of the sixth and seventh segments showed atrophied fibres, and the posterior interosseous nerve was markedly degenerated. In the foiirth and fifth segments of the cervical region the cell changes were almost absent. The changes in the nerve-cells of the cord are re- garded as secondary to the peripheral neuritis, and as the result of the altered state of functional activity following atrophy of the axons of these cells). The paralysed muscles are pale and atrophied markedly ; in advanced cases they consist chiefly of connective and fibrous tissue, with remnants of muscle fibres. Microscopical examination shows that the muscle fibres are atrophied. The transverse striation is often preserved, but in advanced cases it may be lost. The muscle nuclei are proliferated. In advanced cases the sarcolemma sheath contains granules only, or it may be empty. The connective and adipose tissue between the muscle fibres is increased. Whilst most observers regard the changes in the peripheral nerves as the primary affection in lead paralysis, Erb and Remak think that the peripheral neuritis is secondary to some functional change (as yet unrecognised) in the nerve-cells of the anterior horns. Mercurial Neuritis. — A small number of cases are on record in which multiple neuritis similar to alcoholic neuritis (especially the ataxic form) has developed in patients who were under mercurial treatment. The patients have often been syphilitic or alcoholic. In some of the cases it has not been possible to decide whether mercury, syphilis, or alcohol has caused the neuritis. In the case of Spitzer there was mercurial salivation and stomatitis, and the symptoms subsided when the mercury was dis- continued. As mercury is used so often in medicine, and neuritis following its administra- tion is so rare, Schultze suggests that the cases may be due to combined toxic action of mercury and alcohol. Several writers have pointed out that syphilitic polyneuritis is made worse by mercury. Diphtheritic Neuritis.—This is the most common form of multiple neuritis following an infectious disease. It usually develops two or three weeks after diphtheria, and may follow either a mild or severe attack. In the most common form paralysis of the soft palate is the first symptom. As a result thereof the voice has a nasal twang, there is difficulty in swallow- ing, and fluids regurgitate through the nose; the soft palate hangs down at the back of the mouth, and is not raised on phonation. Usually the mucous membrane of the soft palate is anaes- thetic, and the palate reflex cannot be obtained. In some cases no further symptoms develop, but in other cases the ocular, pharyngeal, or laryn- geal muscles are also affected. There is in- ability to see small objects close to the eyes, such as small print, owing to loss of the power of accommodation from paralysis of the ciliary muscle. The pupils, however, are generally unaffected, and react both to light and when the patient attempts to accommodate. Occasion- ally the sixth nerve is paralysed on each side; very rarely other ocular muscles are paralysed. The muscles of the pharynx may become para- lysed, and great difficulty in swallowing is caused thereby. The mucous membrane of the pharynx and larynx may become anaesthetic, and reflex movements connected with these parts may be lost. The muscle fibres which depress the epiglottis may become paralysed also. Owing to the three affections just men- tioned food is very liable to find its way into the larynx and trachea. The recurrent laryn- geal nerve is sometimes affected, and the muscles of one or both vocal cords are para- lysed; the voice becomes hoarse and there is aphonia. When one or more of these localised forms of paralysis are present the knee-jerks are usually absent; but there may be no other affection of the limbs. In most cases, however, other evi- dences of neuritis in the limbs develop, such as numbness and weakness. Often the paralysis of the palate has disappeared before the limbs are much affected. The weakness of the limbs increases, and passes on to complete paralysis. Frequently both arms and legs are affected, sometimes the legs only. The knee-jerks are absent, and sometimes the reaction of degenera- tion is obtained. In addition to numbness and tingling, anaesthesia may be present in the limbs ; or there may be diminution of sensation to tactile impressions, diminished power of local- ising sensation and of telling the position of the limbs, whilst at the same time hyperalgesia is present. In a small proportion of the cases the symp- toms consist chiefly of numbness and tingling, with ataxia and unsteadiness in walking. In these cases the knee-jerks are absent, and hence they bear some resemblance to locomotor ataxia. The bladder and rectum are not paralysed. The affection of the limbs usually does not reach its height for one to three months, and by this time the paralysis of the palate, ocular or laryngeal muscles, has generally subsided. In rare cases paresis or paralysis of the musclesNERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 23 of the face, neck, or trunk, or of the intercostals has been recorded. Sometimes the diaphragm becomes paralysed. The localised paralysis usually disappears in a few weeks, but the severe generalised affection of the limbs generally does not disappear for three months or longer. The prognosis is favourable when the affection is limited to localised paralysis of the palate or ocular muscles. In the severe forms the chief dangers consist of cardiac failure (? due to neu- ritis of the vagus); inability to swallow, and slow starvation; broncho-pneumonia through the entrance of food, etc., into the trachea ; and paralysis of the diaphragm from neuritis of the phrenic nerve. The diagnosis is easy if the paralytic symp- toms follow a well-marked attack of diphtheria. But often the throat affection has been slight and its nature indefinite ; in such cases the com- bination of paralysis of the palate and of the ciliary muscles, along with absent knee-jerks, is almost diagnostic. If the local paralysis of the palate or ocular muscles have disappeared the difference of the sensory symptoms in diphtheritic and alcoholic paralysis is of importance : in diph- theritic neuritis pain in the limbs and tenderness of the nerves and muscles are slight or absent; in alcoholic and arsenical neuritis, usually marked. The ataxic form differs from true tabes by its more rapid development, by the absence of shooting pain, and usually by the normal pupillary reactions. Pathological Anatomy. — The most constant and important change is multiple neuritis in the peripheral nerves. The nerves in the neighbour- hood of the diphtheritic process (soft palate and fauces) are first affected; they present marked neuritic changes. In the limbs the neuritic changes are most marked in the finest branches of the peripheral nerves, and the nearer the spinal cord the nerves are examined the less marked are the changes. The neuritis is some- times of the degenerative or parenchymatous form. In other cases there is both parenchyma- tous and interstitial neuritis; the connective tissue between the nerve-fibres is increased, and occasionally, by oedema and inflammation of the connective tissue, small nodular swellings are produced. Microscopically these small swell- ings present infiltration of the connective tissue with numerous cells—leucocytes and compound granular cells. Not infrequently in the cranial nerves supply- ing the larynx and eye muscles neuritic changes are found. Changes have also been recorded in the cardiac and pharyngeal plexus. Occasionally degeneration has been found in the anterior spinal nerve-roots. In some cases the nerve-cells of the anterior horns of grey matter of the spinal cord are atrophied, and their processes diminished ; also occasionally a proliferation of the neuroglia of this region with increase of its nuclei has been recorded. The paralysed muscles may show no definite changes microscopically, or degenerative atrophy may be found similar to that observed when muscle nerves are degenerated. In a few rare cases the muscular changes have been marked, and the interstitial connective tissue proliferated. No diphtheria bacilli can be found in the degen- erated nerves, and it has been shown by the experiments of Roux and of Sidney Martin that paralysis and peripheral neuritis can be caused in animals by the injection of a toxin obtained from a cultivation of the diphtheria bacilli. There can be no doubt that a toxin produced by the diphtheria bacillus is the cause of the diphtheritic neuritis in man. Puerperal Multiple Neuritis.—This is a very rare form of neuritis which may occur both during pregnancy and after delivery. It is not due to injury of nerves during parturition. It has been attributed to pvierperal auto-intoxica- tion. The diagnosis depends on the association of the neuritis with pregnancy or parturition, and the absence of alcoholism or other causes. (Turney admits that not infrequently alcohol and the puerperal state seem to co-operate.) In the most common generalised form the symptoms correspond to those of alcoholic multiple neuritis. In a few cases optic neuritis has been also present. In a second form there is a localised polyneuritis of the upper or lower limbs with pains, nerve tenderness, paralysis, and muscular wasting. In the upper limbs the ulnar and median nerves are most affected ; in the lower limbs the anterior crural and sciatic nerves. In a third form neuritis of a single nerve (ulnar or sciatic) is met with. In a few rare cases the symptoms have resembled those of Landry's paralysis. (An obstetrical neuritis, due to the traumatic injury of nerves in the pelvis during delivery, has also been recorded.) The pathological examination in a case re- ported by Korsakow and Serbski revealed parenchymatous neuritis in the peripheral nerves—most marked in the smallest branches. There were also changes in the lumbar and sacral plexus and in several cranial nerves. There was an increase of neuroglia in Goll's columns and in the lateral columns of the spinal cord; otherwise the central nervous system was normal. Diabetic Neuritis.—The knee-jerks are not infrequently absent in hospital patients suffer- ing from a severe form of diabetes mellitus. In 100 hospital cases suffering from diabetes mellitus the writer found the knee-jerks both absent in 49, both present in 45, one absent and one present in 6. Amongst diabetic patients seen in private practice the knee-jerks are only absent in a small percentage. In 30 cases seen in private practice recently by the writer the knee-jerks were present in all. The loss of the knee-jerks is probably due toNERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 24 changes in the peripheral nerves in most cases, and this has been verified by the pathological examination in several instances; but the writer has found the peripheral nerves normal microscopically when the knee-jerks have been absent. In the late stages of the diabetes, and especially in diabetic coma, the knee-jerks are absent in most cases, but not in all (see article " Diabetes Mellitus "). In addition to the loss of knee-jerks other symptoms, probably of neuritic origin, are sometimes present, such as frequent cramps in the calf muscles, gnawing pains in the legs, tenderness of the calf muscles, numbness and tingling, and feebleness of the legs. The calf muscles may be so tender on pressure, that the patient is unable to bear one leg upon the other in bed. In rare cases actual paralysis of the legs, with dropped feet, and symptoms similar to those of alcoholic neuritis are present. Occasionally perforating ulcers of the feet are met with, and usually they are associated with slight or well-marked indications of neuritis. In a few cases pain, paresis, and neuritic symptoms have been observed in the distribu- tion of the anterior crural and obturator nerves. Rare forms of localised paresis or paralysis of single muscles (probably of neuritic origin) have also been described. In a few cases, the clinical diagnosis of peripheral multiple diabetic neuritis has been confirmed by pathological examination. The changes have usually been those of parenchymatous (degenerative) neuritis. (In a case recorded by Eraser aud Bruce, segmental periaxial neuritis was found.) In most of the cases of diabetic neuritis recorded the patients have been over the age of fifty, and often the amount of sugar in the urine has been small. In severe forms of diabetes in younger patients (with abundant sugar excretion) well-marked neuritis is ex- tremely rare. Hence diabetic neuritis is be- lieved to be due, not to sugar, but to the presence of some other associated toxic sub- stance in the system. Other Forms of Neuritis.—Neuritis occa- sionally follows influenza. It may affect all four limbs, as in alcoholic neuritis ; but this is rare. More commonly it is localised in certain groups of muscles or certain parts of one or two limbs. There are other cases of neuritis in which no cause can be ascertained, so-called idiopathic multiple neuritis. In these cases the symptoms may resemble those of multiple neuritis from alcohol and other causes. In several cases of this form of neuritis double facial paralysis has been recorded; it was present in one of the writer's cases. Many cases recorded as Landry's paralysis have probably been due to peripheral neuritis (see article on this disease, and monograph by Drs. Ross and Bury on peripheral neuritis). (For description of neuritis in beriberi and leprosy see articles on these diseases.) The other forms of neuritis are too rare, and too closely resemble the forms already con- sidered, to permit of separate description in this article. In the work of Dr. Ross and Dr. J. S. Bury, and in Remak's recent monograph, detailed accounts of these rare forms are given. Treatment of Multiple Neuritis.—The most important point as regards the treatment of multiple neuritis is to discover the cause, and, if it be some toxic substance entering the system daily, further chronic poisoning should be pre- vented. In alcoholic neuritis all alcoholic beverages should be discontinued. Also in other forms of neuritis it is well to forbid alcohol, or to allow only a very small quantity in order that there may be no risk of " combined " toxic action. In neuritis from lead, arsenic, mercury, carbon disulphide, naphtha, carbon monoxide, dinitro- benzene, it may be necessary for the patient to change his occupation or to take special pre- cautions to prevent the entrance of these poisons into the system. (In all cases of doubtful origin, beer or alcoholic beverages taken by the patient should be examined for arsenic.) Complete rest in bed is most important in all forms of neuritis (with the exception of lead neuritis). It is very desirable that careful attention should be paid to the feeding, and the patient should have an abundant quantity of suitable nutritious food. Milk, cream, eggs, fatty food and codliver oil are thought to be of much service. In alcoholic neuritis it is often necessary to remove the patient to a hospital or nursing home in order to prevent the alcohol being con- tinued. As tuberculosis so frequently occurs as a complication in alcoholic neuritis, it is most important that the patient's room should be well ventilated, and that all precautions should be taken to prevent the possibility of tubercular infection; also in view of this risk everything should be done to improve the general nutrition. In the early periods of the disease it is usually necessary to give drugs for the relief of pain, such as antipyrin, antifebrin, phenacetin, and salipyrin ; cocaine or opium may be occasionally necessary. The limbs are sometimes more com- fortable when surrounded by cotton-wool. For sleeplessness sulphonal, trional, or chloral-amide may be necessary; if there is also much excite- ment a small dose of hyoscine is often of service. If the heart's action is feeble small doses of digitalis are advisable. In the chronic stages of the disease tonics, such as quinine, strychnine, cod-liver oil, are indicated, and potassium iodideNERVES, PERIPHERAL—MULTIPLE PERIPHERAL NEURITIS 25 is thought to be of slight service by some writers. A wire "cradle" should be placed over the feet to prevent the pressure of the bed-clothes, which would increase the foot-drop. Also, it is important to keep the feet at right angles to the legs by the use of a sand-bag or foot-splint; in this way the dropping of the feet is rectified and permanent fixation of the feet in the position of talipes equino-varus is prevented. There is a great tendency for the legs to be flexed at the hips and knee, and to become permanently fixed in this position; hence the legs should be kept extended as much as possible. After the acute stage has passed, the daily stimulation of the paralysed muscle with the galvanic current tends to maintain their nutrition until the de- generated nerves recover. Massage is of service in the later period of the disease, the limbs being rubbed in an upward direction. Also, passive movements at the various joints should be made. But massage should not be given when the limbs are very painful, and it should never be continued if it gives great pain. These remarks on the treatment of alcoholic neuritis apply also to most of the other forms of neuritis. The following points may be mentioned in addition :—In lead neuritis potassium iodide is usually given, as it is supposed to increase the elimination of lead from the system. (This supposed action has, however, been recently dis- puted by Dr. Dixon Mann.) Oliver thinks that monosulphite of soda, gr. 5-10, three times a day, aids the elimination of lead. Aperients containing saline sulphates are thought to be of slight service also. Galvanism of the paralysed muscles, with massage, tends to keep up their nutrition until the degenerated nerve-fibres recover. An abundant nutritious diet, a pure atmosphere, open-air exercise, and warm baths are of service. As regards diphtheritic neuritis, the antitoxin treatment of diphtheria has no effect in prevent- ing its development. When there is difficulty in swallowing it is necessary to feed the patient with an oesophageal tube or by nutrient enemata. If there be any signs of cardiac failure the patient should not be allowed to sit up in bed, and digitalis or caffein may be given. When the breathing is difficult, artificial respiration may be of service in carrying the patient through a period of temporary respiratory failure. In malarial neuritis quinine should be given. In arsenical neuritis potassium iodide is said to be of some service in removing arsenic from the system, and may be given if there are no signs of cardiac failure. In diabetic neuritis the diet should be re- stricted according to the form of the disease (see article on "Diabetes Mellitus"). Sodium salicylate or antipyrin should be given, i'? In the puerperal neuritis occasionally it may be necessary to bring on labour artificially. Neuralgia Etiology; Symptoms . . . .25 Trigemiwil Neuralgia and other forms . 26 Pathology; Diagnosis .... 27 Treatment— Medical 27 Surgical . . . . . .28 The term neuralgia is applied to pain, usually paroxysmal in nature, which follows the course of a nerve or its branches, but which is not associated with gross or organic lesions of any part of the nervous system. Etiology.—Neuralgia is a disease of adult life. Children rarely suff'er. It is often associated with anaemia, occasionally with gout, diabetes, rheumatism, malaria, or an acute infectious disease such as typhoid fever. In females it is more liable to occur at puberty, during pregnancy and the puerperium, and at the climacteric period. Old age and arterio-sclerosis appear to pre- dispose to one form of the disease. Very frequently neuralgia is excited by ex- posure to cold, local or general, occasionally by emotional disturbances. Injuries to nerves may be followed by obstinate neuralgia. Trigeminal neuralgia, especially that form affecting the first branch, may follow influenza, infectious diseases, or malaria; it may be asso- ciated with chronic catarrh, or new growth aff'ecting the nasal mucous membrane, or with chronic catan-h or disease of the frontal sinus; occasionally it has followed a nasal operation. Trigeminal neuralgia may be excited by caries and other aff'ections of the teeth, by disease of the alveolar processes of the jaws (both when the teeth are present and absent), by disease of the periosteum of the bony canals, through which branches of the fifth nerve pass ; occa- sionally it is associated with diseases of the eye, with errors of refraction, diseases of the tongue and ear. Sometimes neuralgia is due to hysteria or neurasthenia. In many cases of severe neuralgia, especially of the epileptiform variety, no cause can be detected. Symptoms.—The chief symptom of neuralgia is pain, paroxysmal in nature, in the distribu- tion of one or more nerves. The duration of the pain may be very short (few seconds or minutes), or it may continue for an hour or more. There are intervals between the attacks in which the pain is absent or slight. During the attacks the pain is darting, stabbing, or boring in character; if pain be present between the attacks, it is dull and aching. The pain often corresponds to the position of a nerve- trunk. The attacks are frequently excited by cold, movements, food, and occasionally by emotions. Pain in one branch of a nerve may extend to other branches when severe, or even to adjacent nerves. Hypersesthesia or hyper- algesia of the skin often accompanies the pain.26 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA A touch may be felt as pain or may excite neuralgic pain, but firm pressure may give relief. The pain is most intense at certain points; these spots are tender, and pressure upon them may induce a neuralgic attack (points of Valleix). Mostly they correspond to the place where a nerve-trunk passes out of a bony canal, over a hard structure, or through a fascia. Occasionally there is tenderness of a vertebral spine corresponding to the nerve origin. Paralysis and persistent anaesthesia do not occur in true neuralgia. Occasionally muscular spasm accompanies, or transient ansesthesia follows a paroxysm. Lachrymation, salivation, local sweating, local pallor followed by redness, may occur during an attack. Occasionally the hair becomes grey or falls off, and occasionally there is a slight local oedema after an attack. At the height of a paroxysm the pulse may be slow, and in rare cases vomiting has been re- corded. In cases of long duration the appetite is lost; general impairment of health and melan- cholia, with suicidal tendencies, may follow. Several forms of neuralgia are recognised according to their causation :—Anaemic, which is frequently in the first division of the fifth nerve, in the auriculo-temporal branch, or in the left infra-mammary region ; gouty ; diabetic, which often affects the third division of the fifth nerve, and is sometimes bilateral; malarial, which affects chiefly the first division of the fifth nerve, and which is periodic, occurring at intervals of one to four days; syphilitic ; in- fluenzal, which affects chiefly the first division of the fifth nerve; rheumatic ; degenerative, which occurs in old age, and is very persistent; hysterical; traumatic ; and herpetic. Trigeminal neuralgia (neuralgia of the fifth nerve, tic douloureux) is the most common form of the disease. It may affect all three branches of the fifth nerve, but more commonly only one or two divisions suffer. It is nearly always iinilateral (except in diabetes)- Often it is very intense, and may then radiate from one branch of the nerve to the next or to an adjacent nerve. Cold, contact, and movement may ex- cite an attack. Muscular spasm may occur in the face muscles when the pain is intense (tic convulsif). Flushing of the face, sweating, lachrymation, and increased flow of saliva and nasal mucus may be observed. Local greyness or loss of the hair and slight oedema of the face are occasional symptoms. In neuralgia of the first division (supra- orbital), pain radiates from the supra-orbital notch over the anterior half of the head, and also into the eye, and eyelid, and down the side of the nose. Tender spots are detected just above the supra-orbital notch, in the upper eye- lid, at the lower edge of the nasal bone, and sometimes in the eyeball. In neuralgia of the second division (infra- orbital), the pain is between the orbit and mouth. Tender spots are at the infra-orbital foramen, at the side of the nose, over the malar bone, and along the gums of the upper jaw. In neuralgia of the third division the pain often radiates widely: it may be felt in the lower jaw, tongue, parietal eminence, temple, and ear. Tender spots are over the inferior dental and mental foramina, just above the zygoma in front of the ear, over the parietal eminence, and in the tongue. Often separate branches of the fifth nerve are affected alone or chiefly, as the inferior dental, lingual, or auriculo-temporal. Epileptiform Neuralgia {Neuralgia Major).— This is the most obstinate and severe form of trigeminal neuralgia. The disease begins in the second half of life, and no cause can be detected. At first the pain is of ordinary severity, but in time it becomes most intense; it always begins in the area of distribution of the fifth nerve. Sometimes convulsive spasm of the facial muscles accompanies the pain. The attacks last for a second or two, or for a minute or more. They are often repeated frequently ; sometimes fifty or a hundred attacks occur daily. Cold, emotions, movement of the face, and even defsecation may bring on an attack. The patient often tries to relieve the pain by rubbing the face. Teeth are often removed without avail. Sleep is frequently impossible without the use of drugs. Food is taken with difficulty, and the general health in time be- comes impaired. Cervico-occipital neuralgia is rare ; it involves the posterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves, especially the great occipital nerve. There are tender points midway between the mastoid process and the first cervical vertebra and between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius. The pain is less violent than in trigeminal neuralgia. Brachial neuralgia and neuralgia of the phrenic nerve are described in the articles on the "Brachial Plexus," vol i., and on the " Diaphragm," vol. ii. Intercostal neuralgia is often due to cold; it also occurs in hysteria and anaemia. In the latter condition it is chiefly left-sided and in the infra-mammary region. Tender points are near the vertebra, near the third mid-axillary line, and near the middle line in front. {See also Mastodynia, article "Mammary Gland," vol. vi.) In lumbo-abdominal neuralgia the pain is in the lumbar region, lower part of abdomen, and groin. Tender points are over the middle of the iliac crest, in the hypogastrium, scrotum (or labia). Occasionally the neuralgia follows the distribution of the crural nerve in the thigh. Both these forms of pain are frequently second- ary to organic disease, and not truly neuralgic. For description of other forms of neuralgia see articles on " Coccygodynia," "Sciatica,"27 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA "Erythromelalgia" (Raynaud's disease), "Meta- tarsalgia," and "Visceral Neuralgia" associated with various organs. Pathology.—Nothing definite is known as to the pathology of neuralgia; but there are several points (the radiation of pain into adjacent nerve regions during an attack, and the reflex char- acter of the pain in certain cases) which favour the view that the seat of the disease is in sensory cerebral or spinal nerve-cells. Oppenheim thinks that it is probable that it may be caused by fine nutritional changes in the nerve, in its sheath, and in the nervi nervorum. Even in cases of many years' duration microscopical examination has revealed nothing. In a few cases of trigeminal neuralgia slight vascular, sclerotic, and degenerative changes have been found in the nerve-fibres or in the Gasserian ganglion, but in other cases the cells of this ganglion (examined by Nissl's method) have been normal. The importance of these slight changes is very doubtful. Dana has recorded endarteritis of the vessels of the nerve-sheath; Putnam, endarteritis and sclerosis of the endoneurium; Horsley, Rose, Krause, Saenger, sclerotic changes in the Gas- serian ganglion with degenerative changes in its cells and fibres. Diagnosis.—Important points in the diagnosis of neuralgia are the migratory and intermittent character of the pain, and the absence of evidence of any organic lesion of the nerves or central nervous system, even in cases of long duration. Except in diabetic patients bilateral pain is very rarely due to neuralgia. In neuritis the pain is usually continuous, though exacerbations occur ; swelling of the nerve can often be felt; soon anaesthesia and paresis, or paralysis with atrophy, develop. In neuralgia the pain occurs in paroxysms; no swelling of the nerve can be felt; anaBsthesia and paralysis do not develop. If the nerve can be palpated, the whole or a large portion of it is tender from the first in neuritis. In neuralgia tender points may be found, but at first the nerve-trunk is not tender between the attacks. Careful general examination of the patient for indications of organic nervous diseases or of hysteria is most important. Pain of a neuralgic character is often due to the pressure of a tumour on a nerve or nerve- root, or to implication of nerves in other dis- eased processes. Such secondary neuralgic pain may be produced in the limbs by tabes, or other organic diseases of the spinal cord or spinal nerves; in the head by cerebral tumour, aneurysm, etc. at the base of the skull, implicat- ing the fifth nerve. But usually other symptoms can be detected which show that the neuralgic pain is secondary, and that the case ought not to be regarded as one of true neuralgia. Visceral referred pain is distinguished, according to Head, by the presence of pain over areas not corresponding to those of definite peripheral nerves, and by the presence of tenderness of superficial structures. It is always important to inquire carefully into the etiology of all cases of neuralgia in order to obtain indications for treatment. Prognosis.—In some cases (minor form) the disease continues for a short period only; in others (major form) it may continue for many years. The disease does not directly cause death. The prognosis is worse the older the patient, the longer the duration of the affec- tion, and the less it is related to any of the well - recognised causes of the disease. The epileptiform variety of trigeminal neuralgia is of all forms the most obstinate and difficult to relieve. Medical Treatment.—When neuralgia is clearly secondary to another affection, treatment should be directed to the primary disease. When the teeth are diseased, and an attack of neuralgic pain is brought on by touching them, it may be desirable to have one or more teeth removed. But it is to be remembered, that though benefit is sometimes derived thereby, on the other hand often no improvement follows. The treatment of associated diseases of the frontal sinus or nasal mucous membrane sometimes has a beneficial effect on the neuralgia. When severe ansemia or chlorosis is present iron should be given, and the addition of arsenic is of service. In neuralgia associated with malaria quinine is indicated; in rheumatic cases, sodium salicylate ; in syphilitic patients benefit is often derived from mercury and iodides; and in gouty patients, treatment directed to primary disease is advisable. A suitable diet should be given when neuralgia is associated with diabetes; sodium salicylate is worthy of a trial. Very often there is no clear indication of a primary affection to which the neuralgia is secondary. General treatment should not be neglected. The food should be nutritious and abundant; a mixed diet is best. Benefit has been derived by discontinuing a strictly vegetarian diet. When the patient is thin, fatty food, butter, cream, cod-liver oil are of service. The bowels should be kept regular, if necessary, by mild purgatives. The relief of constipation has occasionally diminished the pain. In some cases rest is of great service; in other cases, when the patient's occupation has been seden- tary, life in the open air as much as possible is beneficial. Innumerable drugs have been given internally, mostly with the object of relieving pain. When the pain is repeatedly relieved it often dis- appears entirely. Butyl chloral hydrate is one of the most valuable drugs we possess for the relief of trigeminal neuralgia. It may be given in 5 or 10 grain doses, dissolved in 20 to 40 minims of glycerine, and water or orange-flower28 NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA water afterwards added to one ounce. Yeo recommends gr. 5 every hour for four doses, to be discontinued if no relief follows. Tincture of gelsemium is of much service in some cases; but large doses are often required, and as such frequently produce slight toxic symptoms, and as the strength of the diiferent preparations varies, considerable caution is necessary in using the drug. Quinine in large doses is of distinct value, especially in supra-orbital neuralgia, even when there is no connection with malaria. Aconite is of service in facial neuralgia, but is liable to produce toxic symptoms. Sometimes large doses of potassium iodide are beneficial when there is no evidence of syphilis. Occasionally phosphorus, antipyrin, antifebrin, exalgin, and phenacetin have given relief. Oppenheim and others have found pyramidon distinctly useful. In the neuralgia of old age nitro-glycerine may be given, and recently hypodermic injec- tions of nitrate of strychnine (in increasing doses) have been recommended strongly. When all other methods fail it may be necessary to give morphia hypodermically. At first the dose should be small—to ^ or ^ of a grain ; and it is well to combine it with of a grain of atropine. The risk of forming a morphia habit should not be forgotten. Locally/, the fluid formed by rubbing together equal parts of chloral hydrate and camphor (or 3 of camphor, 3 of chloral hydrate, and 1 of menthol) often gives much relief. Solid menthol may be gently rubbed over the skin at the painful parts. Other useful local appli- cations are chloroform liniment; or a liniment composed of menthol 3, chloroform 4, olive oil to 16; extract of belladonna and glycerine; cocaine and vaseline (1 in 20 or 30); aconite and veratria ointments (the last two should not be applied over any broken surface or mucous membrane). A few drops of a weak solution of cocaine dropped on to the con- junctiva, or the painting of the nasal mucous membrane with cocaine solution (5 to 10 per cent), may give relief to the pain (Oppenheim). The application of heat by a coil of small india- rubber tubing through which a stream of hot water is allowed to flow, is sometimes of service (Collins). Galvanism is occasionally beneficial. The anode pole is placed over the painful area, and the kathode on some indiff"erent part. A weak current (about 2 milliamperes) should be used. The application should be continuous for about five or ten minutes. A wet sponge may be used as an electrode, and this should be applied very gently and gradually; also it should be very gradually removed, so as to avoid a sudden make or break of the current, but a rheostat is better for this purpose. The electrical treat- ment should be given daily. In some obstinate cases the introduction of cocaine into the tissues in the region of the aff"ected nerve, by means of cataphoresis, has been of service. In very chronic cases the in- jection of a weak solution of osmic acid near or into the nerve has sometimes been most useful. Bennett recommends that the' nerve (supra- or infra-orbital or mental) should be exposed by a very small incision, and the osmic acid solution injected by a sterilised hypodermic needle directly into the nerve substance. In- jections of dihite solutions of carbolic acid or of cocaine hydrochlorate in the neighbourhood of the nerve have also sometimes given relief. The surgical treatment of neuralgia is, in the absence of a thorough knowledge of its causation and pathology, necessarily empirical and not very satisfactory in its results. Hence all reasonable non-operative measures should first be tried, and especially such general con- ditions as ansemia and hysteria should be medi- cally dealt with. In hysterical cases operation may cure by suggestion, but the probabilities are in favour of the recurrence of hysterical troubles, often of increased severity, in some other region. On the other hand, neuralgias due to painful cicatrices and to pressure lesions of nerves call for immediate surgical treatment, and such treatment can alone be of service; but with cases of this class we are not at present further concerned. The operative measures open to us for the relief of neuralgia are five in number, viz.: (1) Nerve section or neurotomy; (2) nerve resec- tion or neurectomy; (3) nerve stretching ; (4) avulsion of nerves; and (5) the excision of the cranial ganglia or resection of the posterior spinal roots. Mere section of the affected nerve is practi- cally useless. In all such cases regeneration ensues at an early date, and with it the original pain usually recurs. neurectomy/, or the excision of a segment of the affected trunk, produces ansesthesia of more prolonged duration, and, as it is not a more formidable operation than section, it should in all cases be preferred. The method can only be adopted in the case of purely sensory nerves, and is hence almost limited in its application to the branches of the trigeminal and to the posterior spinal roots; resection of a mixed nerve presents too great a danger of leaving permanent paralysis. Except in special cases, to which we shall again refer, the operation is of the simplest nature, and consists in exposure of the aifected trunk, which is picked up by a strabismus hook, aneurysm needle, or other blunt instrument, when a length of from half an inch to an inch can be cut away with scissors. IVerve stretching has the advantage over neurectomy that it is applicable to nerves con- taining motor fibres. It induces primary symp- toms of partial paralysis and anaesthesia similar to those of section, but is accompanied by farNERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 29 less risk of permanent paralysis, and it has certain special effects upon the whole length of the stretched cord and upon the central nervous organs. The nerve to be operated upon is ex- posed as in neurectomy, and is then hooked up by a blunt hook, or, if large enough, by the surgeon's fingers, which form the best instru- ment for the purpose. Should an Esmarch's bandage be employed to assist in the discovery of the trunk it should now be removed, so as not to anchor its upper portion. Stretching is effected by a series of steady pulls made alternately upon each end of the nerve so as to drag upon its peripheral and central connections. The amount of force which can thus be used without rupture of the trunk is considerable, and will in practice be determined by the tactus eruditus of the operator rather than by the standards which have been determined. Such force should fall far below the breaking strain of the nerve, and as a rough guide we may note the following as the estimated breaking strains of certain trunks: sciatic, 100 to 160 lbs.; musculo-spiral, 80 lbs.; median, 60 lbs.; infra-orbital, 10 lbs.; supratrochlear, 5 lbs. Avulsion of nerves appears to combine the advantages of neurectomy with those of nerve stretching, but is, like the former, applicable only to sensory trunks; for the branches of the trigeminal it is certainly to be preferred to any other method. The affected nerve is exposed and picked up in the usual manner; it may then be firmly clamped with a pair of haemostatic forceps and drawn upwards so as to make firm traction on its peripheral ends; the latter are cut across as low as possible. This having been done, the nerve-trunk is drawn downwards, dissected out from its con- nections for some distance, and finally wrenched away from its central end. The removal of the cranial ganglia will be considered in connection with the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. Resection of the posterior spinal roots was first advocated by Bennett in England and by Abbe in America, and has been found useful in a few cases of severe neuralgia of the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses. It aims at curing the disease by allowing resection to be performed without interference with the essential motor roots, but as it is a severe opera- tion it should not be undertaken until all other measures, including nerve stretching, have failed. Laminectomy having been performed, the dura mater is laid open, and the posterior spinal roots are picked up and divided. The root with its ganglion may be entirely resected, which would give a greater certainty of cure of the neuralgia, but would probably leave a perma- nent anaesthesia. The means by which these various operations may be expected to cure neuralgia are as yet ill-defined. It is clear that such neuralgia may conceivably arise from lesions of the peripheral nerve endings, of the trunks themselves, or of the central organs. Were the first a common condition the division of the afferent tracts would certainly arrest the pain, and might be expected to prove permanently curative if regeneration were not associated with reattach- ment to the original peripheral terminations. Similarly, if the essential pathological lesion were in the nerve-trunk its division above the level of that lesion would prove effective. There is, however, little reason to suppose that the pathological basis of neuralgia is thus situated —or, at least, that it long remains thus circum- scribed,—and it is probable that in all cases central or ganglionic structures are concerned. The value of operations upon peripheral nerves thus becomes obscure. Certain factors in the problem are, however, fairly demonstrated. In the first place, wherever the lesion may be situated an afferent impulse appears necessary to evoke pain, and if that lesion be central we must suppose that all impulses are as it were translated into pain, but that some form of external stimulation is none the less a necessary element in the production of such pain. Nerve section unquestionably arrests all afferent im- pulses, and therewith arrests pain. For per- manent cure it is, however, necessary to affect also the central organs, and it is supposed that the operation does so either negatively by providing a period of complete rest from stimulation, or positively by producing some concurrent central change. That central changes in the minute anatomy of the nerve- cells do follow nerve section is now proved, and it can hardly be doubted that important physiological results follow such operations, and that they are productive of more than mere rest. Nerve stretching and a fortiori nerve avulsion are of more marked effect than mere section or excision. In the first place, the two former operations act upon branches which arise above the seat of traction, and thus the whole of a nerve-trunk, including the very highest of its branches, may be temporarily thrown out of action by a stretching operation performed comparatively low down in its course. Changes in the stretclied nerve are extensive, and include loosening of the sheath, tearing of its blood- vessels, congestion and slight inflammatory exudation, tearing of the nerve tubules, and degeneration followed by regeneration of those structures. Probably, also, sensitive nervi nervorum and their intraneural terminations are paralysed by this method (Marshall and Horsley), and again adhesions due to perineuritis will obviously be broken down. Lastly, the associated central organs have been found to present congestions and haemorrhages, while marked alterations occur in the nutrition of the ganglion cells. It is difiicult, if not impossible, to estimateNERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 30 the actual value of these various operations, especially in view of their comparative rarity in trunks other than the trigeminal, and of the different conditions for which they are performed. To the trigeminal nerve we shall again refer: with regard to all other cases we can only consider operation as tentative, and we can never be justified in promising permanent relief. Broadly speaking, Marshall estimates that 74 per cent of all cases of neuralgia are curable by operation. The method of operation to be adopted in the case of individual nerves must be briefly dealt with. The brachial plexus is exposed by an incision similar to that employed for ligature of the subclavian artery; its cords lie above that vessel, with the exception of the lowest cord which lies behind it; they can be readily isolated by blunt dissection, and then submitted, in- dividually or collectively, to traction by the fingers, which should not exceed a pull of 20 lbs. It is to be remembered that, in this region, too vigorous a stretching may tear the nerve-roots away from the spinal cord, their connection with which is less strong than is their inherent tenacity. The musculo-spiral nerve is readily exposed to the outer side of the lower end of the humerus. The incision lies immediately in- ternal to the upper part of the belly of the supinator longus, and divides the deep fascia, avoiding the cephalic vein. The supinator longus and radial extensors are now drawn well outwards, when the nerve is found lying deeply between the supinator longus and the brachialis anticus. The median nerve is exposed at the wrist by a vertical incision immediately external to the palmaris longus tendon: its accompanying artery is apt to be divided along with the nerve, and, if ligatured, care must be taken to avoid inclusion of any nerve-fibres in the loop. The same nerve can be reached in the middle of the upper arm where it crosses the brachial artery. For the radial nerve a vertical incision may be made internally to the lower end of the tendon of the supinator radii longus : the nerve here lies close to, or rather beneath, the tendon, and well away from the radial artery. It can also be readily found on the back of the wrist after its emergence from beneath the supinator longus tendon. The ulnar nerve lies close to the inner side of the ulnar artery at the wrist, and is exposed by an operation similar to that employed for liga- ture of the vessel. At the elbow it is readily found behind the internal condyle where it can be felt through the unbroken skin. The great sciatic nerve is exposed in the upper part of the thigh by a vertical incision, com- mencing below the folds of the buttock, and lying between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, but half an inch nearer to the latter ; the biceps muscle is drawn inwards, and the nerve found lying beneath it; the finger forms the best hook for stretching purposes, and a pull of 30 or 40 lbs. may be employed. The sciatic nerve can, however, be conveniently stretched by the bloodless method: in this case, the patient being fully ansesthetised, the hip is forcibly flexed, the knee extended, the ankle dorsiflexed, and the toes ex- tended : this forced position is maintained for some ten minutes, during which time the course of the nerve is thoroughly kneaded: the only danger of the operation lies in the possibility of injury to an atheromatous popliteal artery. Trigemitial Neuralgia. — The general prin- ciples of the treatment of neuralgia are ap- plicable to the trigeminal as to other nerves. Special consideration is required both because the branches of the fifth cranial nerve are operated upon far more frequently than are all other trunks, and because the fact that these branches are almost entirely sensory^ allows to the surgeon a latitude which he does not possess elsewhere. The cases most suitable for operation are those of true neuralgia, in which no extraneous cause for pain can be discovered, and thus hys- terical and anaemic patients, the sufferers from gout, malaria, syphilis, and rheumatism, and those with visceral diseases which may produce reflex pains, should generally be excluded. Many cases originate in some local disease, such as a carious tooth, but become persistent even after removal of the cause. Operations upon the nerves are then often called for and are of value. In others, again, no cause is discover- able, but in these, and especially in the rare type of epileptiform neuralgia, operation should certainly be adopted if medical treatment has failed to relieve. The operation to be selected will depend upon the nature of the case. Simple nerve section is almost valueless. Excision of a portion of the fibres and stretching have strong advocates. Avulsion combines the advantages of both methods, and is therefore strongly recom- mended for all cases other than those in which the Gasserian ganglion must be excised. Avul- sion should be combined with removal of any suspected source of primary irritation. In a very large number of cases it will appear that the disease has originated in dental caries, in- flammation around a buried tooth stump, or other cause of alveolar ostitis. In many of these the removal of the primary focus will cure the neuralgia, but in many others it will not. We have thus a double factor—the initi- ating alveolar disease, and the secondary central nervous changes. It is usually advised to treat the former only, and operate upon the afferent nerve later if cure is not effected; but in severe cases it is safer to perform both operations31 NEEVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA simultaneously, the nerve being avulsed, and any suspicious segment of the jaw removed at the same time. This radical method involves no serious surgical interference, and has the ad- vantage of excising the peripheral focus at the precise moment in which it is cut off from the central nervous system, so that there is the less risk of interference with the physiological rest of the latter by the vicarious connections of the former. Excision of the Gasserian ganglion is a serious operation, with a mortality of at least 10 per cent, and is therefore only to be undertaken in the most desperate cases. It is called for in persistent neuralgia after failure of the simpler operations, and in cases of severe epileptiform neuralgia. We have now to consider the various opera- tions adapted to dealing with the different branches of the trigeminal nerve. The supra-orbital nerve passes through a notch or foramen at the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the supraciliary ridge, and its position can usually be determined by feel- ing for the small bony indentation. From this point the greater part of the nerve turns up on to the forehead, where it immediately divides into branches. The eyebrow being shaved, a horizontal incision is made immediately beneath it, and is carried through the orbicularis palpe- brarum. Bleeding having been arrested by pressure, the notch with its nerve and artery are usually readily identified. The nerve is cleaned, and special care is necessary to ascer- tain that the whole of it is taken up on the hook, as two or more branches often lie side by side. The trunk being then drawn out by hsemostatic forceps, the peripheral branches are dissected out and cut off for as great a length as possible. Fine fibrous connections of the nerve to the pericranium should then be divided with the knife, and finally the trunk can be drawn out, often for an inch or more. The slight wound presents no difficulties, and heals readily. The supratrochlear nerve lies parallel with the supra-orbital nerve, but about a quarter of an inch nearer to the nose. It is reached by the same incision as that used for its larger com- panion, and these two branches should always be dealt with simultaneously. The infra-orbital nerve enters the cheek by the infra-orbital foramen, between a quarter and half an inch below the orbital margin, and on a line drawn from the supra-orbital foramen to the interval between the two upper bicuspid teeth. It is here exposed by a horizontal in- cision carried deeply through the soft structures of the face. At the bottom of this incision the foramen is most readily detected by the end of a probe, and the nerve is found issuing from it and at once breaking up into branches. All the branches should be caught up together, avulsion being performed in the usual way. Avulsion rather than section is here specially valuable, as the important dental branches of the nerve arise above the seat of operation. It has the incidental advantage of preventing bleeding should the artery be inadvertently seized with the nerve. The above operation has the disadvantage of attacking the nerve below the origin of its principal branches, and hence other and more complicated procedures are generally advisable. An incision may be made along the floor of the orbit through which the eyeball is turned up, together with all the orbital fat and the peri- osteum. The roof of the infra-orbital canal is now broken open and the nerve traced back as far as possible (Horsley). This operation fails, as does the facial method, to reach the posterior dental branches and Meckel's ganglion. Meckel's ganglion can be reached by the operation of Carnochan, or by the Braun-Lossen method. The former gives a very small area for manipulation, and by opening the antrum increases the dangers of septic infection; but both of these operations will be described. (1) In Carnochan's, or the antral method, a Y-shaped incision is made with its centre on the infra-orbital foramen and its lower limb opening into the mouth. The soft parts and periosteum are well retracted. The antrum is opened by a ^-inch trephine and its posterior wall perforated by a |:-inch trephine. The infra-orbital canal is opened from the antrum by careful chiselling. The nerve is thus laid bare, and can now be followed back to the fora- men rotundum and there cut away with scissors. Meckel's ganglion is not always seen, but generally comes away with the nerve. Bleeding- is very free, and requires prolonged sponge pressure or plugging of the wound. (2) The Braun-Lossen or pterygoid method is free from some of the disadvantages of the above. A curved incision is made from the external angle of the frontal bone along the upper margin of the zygoma, and thence down- wards to the angle of the lower jaw; in its lower part this incision must not extend beyond the superficial structures, and should not divide the facial nerve. The zygoma is then cleared by a horizontal incision through its periosteum, is sawn through before and behind, and is turned down with the masseter muscle. The mouth being slightly opened the temporal tendon is drawn well back or partially divided, and the pterygo-maxillary fossa is exposed. The internal maxillary artery is ligatured and divided as it crosses the external pterygoid muscle. Follow- ing the upper border of this muscle the foramen rotundum is now reached, and the second division of the trigeminal nerve there exposed. If the nerve be now divided at the infra-orbital foramen, its entire length can be drawn out by traction at its posterior point of exposure.NERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 32 Meckel's ganglion is avulsed with the nerve, to the under aspect of which it is attached in front of the foramen rotundum. The zygoma is now replaced and retained in position by sutures passed through the masseter muscle and ad- jacent soft parts at each end of the hiatus; it is not necessary to suture the bone itself, and time is saved by avoiding the necessity for drilling it. The disfigurement produced by the operation is exceedingly slight. The inferior dental nerve is readily exposed at the mental foramen, which lies midway be- tween the upper and lower borders of the lower jaw, in a line passing from the supra-orbital foramen between the bicuspid teeth of the upper jaw; avulsion may here be performed, but is of little value, as the seat of operation is anterior to the dental branches. A more satisfactory method is to make a curved incision around the angle of the jaw, turn forwards the soft parts, and apply a J-inch trephine over the middle of the lower part of the descending ramus ; the trephine is carried well into, but not through the bone, when the dental canal is laid open, and the nerve exposed therein. The nerve can also be divided at either the mental or dental foramen from within the mouth, but the opera- tion is less precise and cannot be aseptic. Still another method consists in working up inside the jaw from an incision made below it until the entrance of the dental canal is reached; of this we have no experience. The lingual nerve is more often divided to relieve the pain of epithelioma of the tongue than to combat a true neuralgia; it lies in a line running from the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw, and can there be felt and cut. The third division of the trigeminal nerve may be divided in its entirety at its exit from the foramen ovale, this operation giving better results than separate treatment of the inferior dental or lingual. For this purpose the writer has found convenient a method similar to Lossen and Braun's operation upon the superior maxillary division : the zygoma being turned down with the masseter, the coronoid process of the lower jaw is cut away, and turned up- wards with the insertion of the temporal muscle; in this way the external pterygoid is clearly seen, and the branches of the inferior maxillary division escaping from beneath it can be traced back to the foramen ovale. As in other cases bony union of the parts cut through can be obtained by suturing their overlying soft structures, and drilling of the bone is not required. The operation advised by Horsley and Rose consists in making an incision similar to that of the Braun and Lossen operation, cutting across the masseter immediately below the socia paro- tidis, clearing the ascending ramus of the lower jaw, and making a large hole in it by the trephine and cutting forceps. By this means the structures of the face are injured less thao in the first operation; but comparatively little room is provided for the deeper stages, and ex- perience has shown that the first method leaves no practical deformity or inconvenience. Removal of the Gasserian ganglionic, vh^ig^Xq^ in cases in which the above operations have failed to cure, in cases of neuralgia involving the whole of the trigeminal area, and especially in epileptiform cases accompanied by secre- tory and vasomotor symptoms. The principal methods are those of Hartley and Krause, and of Rose, the former being preferred by most surgeons. 1. The Hartley-KraxLse Operation.—A horse- shoe-shaped incision is made in the temporal region, one end being immediately in front of the ear, and the other about an inch behind the outer angle of the orbit. This incision marks out a large flap with its base on the zygoma, and with a vertical depth of three inches ; it is carried down to the temporal fossa, and the cranium is there divided in the line of the cut by a circular saw or chisel. The combined flap of bone and soft structures is now turned down, and bleeding arrested by ordinary means. The dura mater covering the temporo-sphenoidal lobe is exposed, and is held back by a spatula; in thus drawing back the dura mater, the second and third divisions of the trigeminal are in- dicated by its attachment along their course. They are cleared by blunt dissection, and traced back to the ganglion, which is similarly cleared. The ganglion is then grasped in a pair of forceps, its superior and inferior maxillary branches are cut across, and it is itself torn away. Horsley's earlier operation was similar to that of Krause and Hartley, but opened the dura mater over the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and again opened the dural sheath of the Gasserian ganglion from its inner or cerebral aspect instead of from its outer or cranial side. 2. Hose's Operation.—" An incision similar to that for exposing the foramen ovale (Braun- Lossen's) is made through the skin, and the flap thus marked out is drawn forwards and stitched out of the way. The zygoma is drilled and turned down together with the masseter; the coronoid process is then divided or removed, and, together with the temporal muscle, turned upwards ; the internal maxillary artery is, if possible, secured, and the sphenoidal attachment of the external pterygoid scraped away so as to allow of the exposure of the foramen ovale, which lies just in front of the base of the ptery- goid processes. A |-inch trephine is now applied immediately outside the foramen ovale, and the bone around the opening thus made is also removed by forceps or chisel so as to give more space. The trunk of the third division is traced upwards, the sheaths of the ganglion opened, the second division cut through by means of a sharp cutting-hook, and the ganglion torn awayNERVES, PERIPHERAL—NEURALGIA 33 piecemeal, or at any rate broken up." Doyen's method is closely similar to Rose's, and hardly calls for description. All of these operations require considerable dexterity and good electri- cal illumination. Operations upon the Gasserian ganglion are liable to be followed by destructive keratitis and loss of the eye, but it appears to be conclusively proved that removal of the ganglion alone does not cause such results in the absence of any sepsis or of local irritation of the eye, while all risks disappear within a week or two of the operation. Hence before operation the conjunctival sac should be carefully cleansed for a day or two by washing with a sterile solution of boracic acid, and the eyelids should be lightly sutured to- gether, and kept carefully covered during the operation and for some days afterwards. Lastly, ligature of the carotid artery has occasionally been practised for the relief of facial tic, and although now fallen into disuse, it ap- pears to have been by no means inefficacious. Nervi. &e Therapeutics, Health Resorts [Riviera). Nervi Erig^enteS.—Branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves which pass to the hypogastric plexus and are thence sent to the penis, bladder, rectum, and colon; they act as vasodilators to the pelvic organs and cause erection of the penis (Lat. erigo, I erect). See Physiology, Nervous System [Spinal Nerves). Nervi Nervorum.—The nerve-twigs distributed to the sheaths of the nerves them- selves. Nervitone.—A proprietary medicine said to contain iron, phosphorus, asafetida, sumbul root, and nux vomica. Nervosine.—A mixture of reduced iron, valerian, angelica, etc., used in the treatment of hysteria. NervOSism.—The medical doctrine that morbid phenomena are caused by variation in nerve force; also, sometimes, neurasthenia {Bovxhut). Nervous System, Diseases of. See Absinthism ; Acromegaly ; Adolescent In- sanity ; Alcoholic Insanity ; Alcoholism ; Anaesthesia ; Angina Pectoris ; Aphasia ; Asthma ; Athetosis ; Atrophy {Trophic In- fluence) ; Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth ; Balneology {In Disorders of the Nervous System); Bed-Sores ; Beriberi ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of ; Brain, Physiology ; Brain, Diseases of Blood-Vessels; Brain, Tumours ; Brain, Inflammations, Atro- phy, Hypertrophy, etc.; Brain, Intracranial Surgery ; Brain, Cerebellum, Diseases of ; Catalepsy ; Children, Clinical Examination vol. VII OF {Nervous System); Chorea ; Chorea Gravi- darum ; Choreic Insanity ; Climacteric In- sanity ; Climate {Effect on Nervous System); Coccygodynia ; Convulsions, Infantile ; Cough {Nervous) ; Cretinism ; Deafmutism ; Delirious Mania ; Delirium Tremens ; Eclampsia ; Elec- tricity ; Embryology {Nervous System, Develop- ment of); Epilepsy ; Epileptic Insanity ; Equi- librium ; Facial Nerve, Paralysis ; Facial Spasm ; Fifth Nerve, Affections of ; General Paralysis ; Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve ; Head- ache ; Head-Shaking ; Heart, Neurosis of ; Hemiplegia ; Heredity {In Diseases of the Nervous System); Herpes ; Hiccough ; Hydro- cephalus ; Hypoglossal Nerve ; Hysteria {General); Hysteria in Children ; Hysteria {Surgical Aspects); Insanity, Etiology; Insanity, Pathology ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Insanity, Treatment ; Joints, Diseases of {Neuro-Arthropathies) ; Larynx, Neuroses of ; Leprosy {Nerve Changes in); Lumbago ; Lunacy ; Malingering {Nervous Mimicry, Varieties) ; Massage ; Meninges, Anatomy, etc.; Meninges, Tuberculous Meningitis ; Meninges, Epidemic Cerebro-spinal Meningitis; Menopause {Nervous Disorders); Mental Deficiency ; Mirror-Writ- ing ; Morphinomania ; Muscles, Diseases of {Atrophies, Hypertrophies, Myotonia Congenita, etc.); Myasthenia Gravis; Nerves, Peripheral, Injuries and Diseases ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis ; Nerves, Neuralgia ; Neurasthenia ; Neuroses, Occupation ; New- born Infant, Diseases {Tetanus); Nose, Neuroses of ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; Ophthalmoplegia ; Osteo-Arthropathies ; Paralysis ; Paralytic Insanity ; Paranoia ; Pellagra ; Pemphigus ; Physiology, Neuro- muscular Apparatus ; Pons ; Post-mortem Methods {Examination of Head and Brain) ; Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in Nerves); Pregnancy, Pathology of {Disorders of Nervous System); Puerperium, Pathology of {Puerperal Insanity, etc.); Pupil ; Raynaud's Disease ; Retina and Optic Nerve; Sciatica; Sea-Sick- ness; Senile Insanity ; Shock; Sleep, Normal and Morbid ; Spasm ; Spina Bifida ; Spinal Cord, Medical Section ; Spinal Cord, Surgical Section ; Stammering ; Strabismus ; Sunstroke ; Syphilis {Affections of Nervous System); Syrin- gomyelia ; Tabes Dorsalis ; Tendon-Jerks ; Tetanus ; Tetany ; Tremors ; Ulcers and Ulceration {Due to Imperfect Nerve-Supply); Unconsciousness ; Uremia ; Uterus, Insanity ASSOCIATED WITH DiSEASE OF ; VaGUS NeRVB ; Vertigo ; Visceral Pain ; Wry Neck. Nessler's Reag'ent or Solution. —^A saturated solution of mercuric iodide and potassium iodide. A strip of filter - paper moistened with this solution becomes yellow in the presence of ammonia in the air; the test is also used for the estimation of the amount of ammonia in water (by distillation 3NESSLER'S REAGENT OR SOLUTION 34 and addition of a certain quantity of Nessler's solution, or JVesslerisation). The Nessler re- agent is made by dissolving potassium iodide in water, adding a solution of mercuric chloride, filtering, and then adding a concentrated solu- tion of caustic soda (or potash), diluting, and, finally, adding a little more of the mercuric chloride solution. See Air, Examination of (Ammonia); Water [Ammonia, Nesslerisation). Nestle's Food. See Infant-Feeding {Artificial Feeding, Additional Food). Nettle rash. See Urticaria. Nettleship's Dots.—White dots on the retina found in cases of nyctalopia or night- blindness. Nettle stingos. See Stinging Plants {Urtica); Urticaria (Causes). Netzbeutel.—The omental cavity, gastric diverticulum, or lesser peritoneal space ; it is formed of the mesogastrium during embryonic antenatal life by the deflection of the stomach to the left and by its revolution round its axis. Neubauer's Gangrlion. — The in ferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic is, as a rule, imperfectly separated from the first thoracic, and to the mass formed by their union the name of Neubauer's ganglion has been given. Neuber's Method.— A method of treating the tuberculosis of bones and joints by clearing out the affected tissues, filling the cavity with iodoform and glycerine (emulsion), and closing it up. Neuenahr. See Balneology (Germany); Mineral Waters (Alkaline). Neumann's Corpuscles.—Nucle- ated erythrocytes or red blood-corpuscles, found normally in the foetus and under morbid con- ditions in the adult {e.g. after htemorrhage). Neumann's Crystals.—Crystals, octohedral or hexahedral, found in the sputum in various diseases, such as asthma and bron- chitis; Charcot's or Charcot-Leyden's crystals. <S'ee Expectoration (Sputum, Microscopical Ex- amination). Neumann's Disease. — Pemphigus vegetans. See Pemphigus (Pemphigus vegetans). Neurad.—Towards the neural aspect of a body—opposed to hcemad. Neuradynamia.—Nervous debility or neurasthenia (q.v.). Neuraemia.—Functional disease of the nervous system (Laycock). Neural. — Relating to or belonging to nerves or nervous mechanisms; e.g. neural axis (spinal cord), neural canal, neural arc, neural arch, neural lamina, etc. Neuralgia. See Nerves, Peripheral— Neuralgia. See also Alcoholism (Drunken- ness) ; Ankle-Joint, Region of, Diseases (Gonorrhaeal Affections, Plantar Neuralgia) ; Appendix Vermiformis, Diseases of {Appendi- citis, Diagnosis, Neuralgia); Balneology (Baths in Diseases of the Nervous System, Neuralgia); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of (Neuralgia) ; Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Sensory Disturbaiices); Cautery (Uses); Chest-Wall, Affections of (Pain, Intercostal Neuralgia); Chlorosis (Symptoms, Inframammary Neuralgia) ; Cicatrices (Pain- ful) ; CoccYGODYNiA; Colic {Diagnosis); Con- tusions {Traumatic Neuralgia); Deformities (Metatarsalgia); Electricity (Galvanism in the Treatment of Sciatica); Glaucoma (Primary Glaucoma, Diagnosis); Gout (Irregular Gout, Nervous System); Hydropathy (Subacute and Chronic Diseases, Treatment of); Hypnotism {Treatment of Neuralgia); Joints, Diseases of (Hysterical Joint Affections); Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Perinephritis, Diagnosis); Larynx, Malignant Disease of (Symptoms, Diagnosis); Leprosy (Symptoms of Lepra Maculo-Anaesthetica); Mammary Gland, Dis- eases OF (Neuralgia of the Mamma, Masto- dynia); Nephritis (Renal Cirrhosis, Symp- toms) ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation OF (Eye Symptoms of Sphenoidal Disease); Pharynx, Examination of (Neuralgia); Preg- nancy, Physiology (Changes in the Nervous System); Purpura {Symptomatic, Nervous) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Neuralgia of the Testis, Testalgia); Syphilis (Secondary Syphilis, Symptoms; Tertiary Syphilis, Neur- algic Joints); Teeth (Caries, Pulpitis, Neur- algias of Dental Origin); Tongue (Nervous Affec- tions of); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Oxalic Acid Diathesis, Symptoms); X-Rays (Treatment of Neuralgia). Neuralg'in.—A proprietary preparation said to consist of antifebrin, caffein, and sali- cylate of soda; it is given in doses of from 8 to 45 grains. NeurapOphysiS.—One or other of the two processes of a vertebra which by their union form the neural arch, and along with the vertebral body bound the neural canal. Neurarthropathy.—A diseased con- dition of a joint in which the nervous structures are involved. Neurasthenia. See also Abdomen, ClinicalExamination (Symptoms of Neurasthenia due to Abdominal Disease); Asthenopia (Far«e<ies,NEUEASTHENIA 35 Neurasthenic); Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Hyperoemia of Brain, Diagnosis); Brain, Surgery of {Concussion, Effects); Elec- tricity {Electric Bath in Neurasthenia) ; Gly- cosuria {In Neurasthenia); Hydropathy {For Neurasthenia); Hypnotism {Treatment of Neuras- thenia) ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etio- logical Varieties); Kidney, Surgical Affections {Floating Kidney, Symptoms); Pulse {Frequency in Neurasthenia); Spermatorrh(EA {Effects); Syphilis {Parasyphilis); Teeth {Saliva in Caries in Neurasthenia) ; Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Reasons for sending Patients Abroad).— Neurasthenia means debility of the nerves. It has been described under the names, " General debility," " Spinal irritation," " L'etat nervevix," "The vapours," "Nervous exhaustion," etc. We owe to Beard of New York the best modern description of the condition, and the name Neurasthenia, which is convenient and accurate, as it directs attention specially to the true source of the symptoms. What precisely is the significance of the phrase "nervous debility"? In neurasthenia, as in all other conditions of nervous breakdown, we have two etiological factors, diminished resistance (bad heredity) and increased strain (acquired during the life of the organism). This holds as clearly for neur- asthenia, in which we must believe that the lower nervous layers are affected, as it does for insanity, where the pathological process affects the highest layers. In both cases the condition shows itself by altered conduct and deranged mentation, using these terms in their broadest sense. We will begin by discussing the problem of acquired neurasthenia due to strain, which strain may be direct or indirect. The etiology is less complex in cases where a direct physical cause can be traced, many of which cases are called traumatic. In these we have a condition comparable to cases of insanity due to direct stress—a blow on the head, a sunstroke, the delirium of fever. No nervous system is so constituted as to be able to bear unlimited direct stress. Every beam has a breaking weight. One person may become neurasthenic as the effect of an upturn from a pony cart; another only as the result of a railway smash or shipwreck, accompanied or not by bodily injury and great privation. All gradations are included under the term traumatic neurasthenia. The problem of ner- vous debility is there presented in its least complex clinical form. The debility is due in all these cases directly to an injury or to the fear of an injury. For it is certain that what we call traumatic neurasthenia may arise as the result of fright without any bodily or recognisable injury having being received. It is not the broken arm or leg resulting from a railway collision, or even the jar and shaking experienced, that causes the victim to be a nervous wreck for months or years afterwards, but the general disturbance to the nutrition of his nerves caused by the accident itself, apart from his special personal share in its effect. It is quite possible to be much and for long the worse for a railway accident in spite of coming out of it apparently uninjured. As examples of this the following cases may be cited :—1. A gentleman was travelling in an express train from Aberdeen to London when the train went off the line. The carriage was hurled from side to side of the line but not upset. The traveller steadied himself with feet and hands as much as he could, received no blow, and thought he was perfectly calm and collected all the time. By good fortune the couplings broke and the carriage came to a standstill. The traveller descended, and wondered to see his fellow- passengers crying and embracing each other in a hysterical manner. The cigar which he had kept in his mouth was still alight, and he finished it. Four hours of a summer night were passed in a turnip-field till the relief train carried him on to York and London. To his surprise he found himself in a state of constant and increasing nervous distress during the journey, and for months afterwards he could not endure an express train; he had to go by the slowest possible, and even these tried him more than he liked to admit. It was at least a year before the effect of the fright left him. 2. An elderly gentleman, Mr. B., and his wife were travelling in a train which met with a serious accident. Many passengers were injured and some killed. Presently the survivors were sent to a hotel, and Mr. and Mrs. B. were assigned a room. The good couple knelt down and thanked God for coming uninjured out of such a terrible experience. Then they went to bed and slept fairly well. Next morning Mr. B. being ready first, said he would go down and order breakfast. A few minutes later his wife found him sitting at the top of the stairs, weeping because he had not courage to go down them. The dread of open spaces, or "agoraphobia," of which he had almost certainly never heard, had been suddenly developed by the accident. Can we arrive at any explanation of a marked condition of nervous weakness starting in this way, and can we by studying traumatic neurasthenia get any insight into the nature of the same condition when it is inherited or the result of non - traumatic influences 1 Accepting the view that neurasthenia is a prolonged condition of over-fatigue, can it be explained ? It is admitted that every action is performed by an expenditure of nerve force, that not only intellectual and volitional actions are impossible apart from the nervous system, but that even those actions which are concerned with " the brooding and silent life" of the organs of secretion, excretion, of circulation, and of nutrition, all come under the same category ;NEURASTHENIA 36 they depend upon their nerve-supply for the power to play their part in the drama of life. They live only by virtue of their nervous activity. In health the nervous force is sufficient for all the ordinary demands made upon it. We work and get tired ; we sleep and eat, and are again as new beings ready for another day's work. After some months of continuous work we are tired in a different way : the night's rest and the weekly day of rest do not suffice; we want change of scene and a sustained rest. With these we renew our force and are presently again ready to enjoy work. Even when we are consciously " tired " it is, as a rule, the fatigue of intellectual and volitional nerves, not that of the nerves governing our nutritive and eliminative functions. When these are " tired" and inclined to strike work we recognise that matters are serious, and we know that we are ill. What is it then precisely that happens when nerves, and especially the nerves of vegetative life, are "tired" and do not work^ What precisely is wrong when nerve force is exhausted, or even partially exhausted 1—when not only is intellectual work impossible to us, but when we cannot even digest because our nerves refuse their task? To answer these questions we have to know how the nerves work and how they are nourished. The modern conception of the nervous system has completely altered our views of its physi- ology, and to a large extent of its pathology. The primary conception to-day is of an essential unit, the nerve-cell and its processes. The unit is known as the " neurone"; the nerve- cell is believed to be directly and solely con- cerned with the nutrition of the whole unit or neurone, while the development of nervous energy takes place at the terminal network or arborisation at the end of the nerve-fibre, which network is in physiological but not anatomical continuity with the termination of other neurones. Every nerve-fibre, with the exception of those in the sympathetic nervous system, is enveloped in a myelin sheath, and the develop- ment of this sheath corresponds with the finiction of the fibre, and its degeneration precedes that of any other part of the fibre. Dr. Waller has apparently shown that the myelin sheath replenishes the energy or power of the fibre, and that it is this sheath which is the source of the inexhaustibility of the nerve. Every neurone is a living unit, and as such it has an endowment of a specific measure of vitality. It can be poisoned by certain toxines having special affinities for it, and certain neurones are much more easily affected by some poisons than by others, as is shown by the influence of syphilis, of alcohol, lead, arsenic, and strychnia on various parts of the nervous system. The paralyses which follow diphtheria, and the action of the poison de- veloped by the tetanus bacillus, are also familiar examples of the selective power of toxines over certain neurones. In each of these cases the poison seizes upon certain neurones almost to the exclusion of the rest. The selective power depends probably on some slight chemical difference in the composition of the cells of the various neurones. The poisons also differ much in the influence they exert on the germinal plasma, and through it on the next generation. Dr. Mott says: " Certain acquired conditions in the parents, affecting them especially at the time of conception, are liable to produce an inherent defect in the germinal plasma. They are acute and chronic alcoholism, syphilis, and tuberculosis." His researches go to show that a very large part of inherited imperfections or weakness of the nervous system results from these acquired conditions in the parents, and especially from the remote influence of syphilis and alcohol on the vitality of the neurones in the offspring.^ Of the two broad causes of neurasthenia, heredity and stress, heredity stands first, and, except in cases with a pronounced traumatic factor, all well-marked cases of acquired neurasthenia probably have in them an element of hereditary weakness. Again, the analogy with insanity is close. Hereditary neurasthenia then results from the inheritance of nerve-cells of inferior type with a poor endowment of vitality and of nutritional force. It is not necessary to suppose that the vitality or power of repair in the various neurones is never equally distributed. Some may be much better endowed than others, just as we know that the neurones that serve the organs of the special senses and the intellectual processes vary indefinitely in individuals, and in the varying states of health in the same individual. Those neurones in which the in- herited power of repair is small naturally break down in function more readily than do those which possess a better endowment of vitality. The symptoms of neurasthenia vary with the functions of the neurones affected, with the proportion of the well-nourished to the ill- nourished, and possibly with the measure of repair, imperfect as it may be, still possible to the least well-endowed neurones. For it does not appear to be common, looking at neuras- thenia from a clinical point of view, for in- herited or congenital neurasthenia to lead to the absolute loss of vitality of any of the neurones. They repair themselves badly, and function with difficulty and imperfectly, but they do not die. If they died there would not be weakness, but a slowly increasing paralysis. Thinking diagrammatically, we may picture to ourselves ten neurones assigned to one function. If five of the ten are nourished poorly, the function will be less perfectly performed than it ' Dr. Mott's Groonian Lectures on the Degeneration of the Neurone (1900).37 NEURASTHENIA would be if all the ten were capable of doing their full share of work. The work of any organ would certainly cause the sensation of fatigue more rapidly if half the neurones en- gaged in that work repaired themselves with difficulty than wcnild be the case if repair in all the neurones went on at a normal rate. Congenital neurasthenics of a high grade are people who may truly say of themselves that they were "born tired, and have been tired ever since." Acquired neurasthenia, whether traumatic or non-traumatic, is the result of strain, or of some considerable interference with the normal rate of nutrition. In traumatic cases the strain has been more acute and direct than in the non- traumatic cases. But " undue strain " is itself a complex phrase. It implies that the strain is considerable, and that it is more than the individual is fit to meet. A task that would strain a pony is nothing to a cart-horse. To preclude strain the back mvist be fitted to the burden, and if it is not so fitted there is dis- turbance of due balance between waste on the one side and repair on the other, between the dissipation of nervous force and its recuperation, and a complex train of nervous symptoms arises which we ascribe to " strain." But in trying to define " strain" it is of prime importance to remember that the whole thing is relative. Most of us have known people who can carry on work at high pressure under conditions that would be impossible to the general run of human beings, and for a very much longer time. For instance, Balzac is said to have written more than one of his novels at a sitting, keep- ing himself going for an almost incredible number of hours upon coffee, and taking no sleep till the entire volume was finished. It seems even to have been his rule for several years to rise at midnight, after six hours' sleep, and to work at his desk without intermission, but for a little food and much coffee, for fourteen or fifteen hours. The writer knows a contractor who makes the most abstruse calculations, in- volving immense sums of money, with his children romping round him while at work. He dictates to two or three secretaries in succes- sion, going from one to another, and wearing out relays of them, sometimes for forty or fifty hours at a stretch, without sleep and with only snatches of food. Then he will say, "Excuse me, gentlemen, I am a little tired," and he lies down on the sofa, sleeps for twenty minutes, awakes quite fresh, and is ready to begin again. A man of this type must have powers of re- pair very superior to the average, and to such a one indirect strain from prolonged brain-work would be almost impossible as long as his amazing and unusual powers of recuperation last. Directly he becomes imable to sleep between his bouts of work, from anxiety or any other cause, symptoms of strain will appear. While his health lasts, and things go well with him, more work will not easily strain him. No doubt also, though he can to a great extent postpone food and sleep when necessary, he does in the end take plenty of both. He works longer and harder than ordinary people can, but he can sleep and eat to match when the work is done. Where there is undue strain the individual is often not merely working as hard as he can, but he is trying to do work for which he is not fitted, or he is doing it under distracting conditions. Very often ambition has outrun power. A large number of cases of non-traumatic neurasthenia begin in early adult life or in adolescence. It takes several years for people even of good stock to recover from the strain put upon them by rapid growth and by development. Young adults, and especially young women, are far less fit to stand hard work at nineteen or twenty years of age than they would be, if all goes well with them, at thirty. If they overtax their powers, and if their nerves of digestion break down, sleep presently goes too, and the vicious circle which we call neurasthenia is round them. Still more likely is this to happen if there is an inherited tendency to poor nervous vitality, though the individual himself has not hitherto been con- scious of nerve weakness. Deficient or imperfect metabolism is also probably an important etiological factor in many cases of functional nervous disturbance or failure. When metabolism is imperfect not only is nutrition checked, but there is a result- ing auto-intoxication which must itself directly interfere with normal nerve functions. A large part of what can be done to improve the nutrition of nerves has to do with qviickening metabolism, getting rid of waste material, and bringing the leucocytes everywhere into a higher degree of resisting power as against noxious influences {vide "Immunity," vol. iv. p. 347). The effect of a general increase of the natural powers of resistance to bacteria which leucocytes possess is well shown in the results gained by the open-air and high-feeding method of treating tuberculosis. In functional nervous disease we know of no bacterium which has to be resisted and checked in its development, but the success of the Weir Mitchell method, which in many important points resembles the new treatment for tuber- culosis, shows how much benefit the nervous system can obtain from promoting the general metabolism of the whole organism. The presence in the blood plasma and lymph of the chemical products resulting from imperfect metabolism must also seriously interfere with the nutrition of the nervous and other tissues. Symptomatology.—The symptoms of neuras- thenia vary almost indefinitely with the part of the nervous system at fault. Sometimes the failure seems to be limited to the cells of theNEURASTHENIA 38 brain itself, in other cases it is the spinal nerves that fail prominently; in a third and large group both cerebral and spinal sub-systems are at fault. The individual is either incapable of ordinary exertion of mind and muscle, or he has broken down in both directions under unusual stress. Therefore we have the cerebral, the spinal, and the cerebro-spinal subdivisions of neurasthenia. In not a few cases the failure is most marked in the nerves of organic life; and finally, there is the group in which it is chiefly seen in the nerves of the sexual organs. But after indicating these varieties, it remains true that there is in most cases a certain pro- found unity which links all the cases of nerve weakness more or less together. No one important set of nerves can fail in its power of repair and in its consequent power of work without its failure being, as a rule, and in a measure, felt or reflected by every part of the nervous system. All the better behaved and more normally acting neurones hold their propriety of conduct, i.e. their power of repair, on a more insecure tenure when neighbouring and related groups of neurones are gravely out of order. " If one member suffers, all the members suffer with it," is true, broadly but not absolutely, of the nervous system. The cerebral type, however, is not rarely seen in men and women who show no trace of muscular weakness. They can walk, climb mountains, cycle long distances day by day, with no more fatigue than other people, but they cannot accept responsibility, and they cannot even apply their minds continuously to any one subject, active attention being one of the latest acquired mental powers, and one of the first to be lost. If these people attempt to take respons- ible work they cannot sleep, and, with loss of sleep, temper and self-control quickly suffer. Very often such a man cannot endure anything like a crowd, especially an enclosed crowd. He dare not go to church, or to a theatre or concert, or to an evening party. He suffers from " claus- trophobia." Another patient of the same type has a horror of open places ; he will do anything to avoid having to walk across a market-place, or even down a wide staircase. He has "agora- phobia." Morbid fears of many other kinds are often present. " Anthropophobia," fear of society, of meeting anyone out of the most intimate family circle ; " monophobia," the fear of solitude; "pathophobia," the fear of dis- eases; "pantaphobia," the fear of everything; " mysophobia," the fear of contamination, are among the best known of these morbid fears, but they by no means exhaust the list of the things that neurasthenics dread. A lady known to the writer dared not see the reflec- tion of her own face. The greater part of her life for years was spent in trying to avoid the risk of meeting by accident a looking-glass, or of turning inadvertently to- wards the plate-glass windows of shops. She was not insane, and she recognised clearly that the horror was an absvird one, but all the same it held her for long in bondage. It is usually said that neurasthenia does not lead to insanity, and in general terms this is true. It is, how- ever, impossible to doubt that the dividing line between chronic delusional insanity or insane obsession combined with impulse, and the con- ditions described above, is not a broad one. Further evidence in this direction is the fact that a good many neurasthenics talk of suicide as a possible thing, though few of them do more than talk of it. Insomnia with them is a con- tinually returning evil, and vertigo is common. There is also frequently preternaturally acute hearing or even aural obsessions. A lady who has been neurasthenic for the greater part of a long lifetime has both aural and visual halluci- nations when she gets in the least below her ordinary poor level of strength. In a recent letter to the writer she says :—" One of my old conditions has at this moment again taken hold of me. A short tune of four bars of poor music is being played by a poor little instrument in the air; if the windows were open it would be in the trees in the garden, and it goes on many times in a minute, quite incessantly, till another such little tune takes its place. When I wake in the morning it will wake with me, a wretched little ghost of a tune I have never heard before. This has gone on ever since my last illness, robbing me of the pleasure I used to have in going through in my mind real fine music I had heard from the best artists. Once when ill I heard a fine band playing in a field near, but after a few weeks when the illness ended the band ended too. I see some odd things still, but I am glad to say I no longer see de- capitated heads of hideous men floating in the air." This lady is perfectly conscious that the things she hears and sees are illusions ; she is a woman of great intelligence, of many gifts and mental activities, and she is not self-absorbed. The main type of her neurasthenia is spinal; she can take no exercise at all without being con- spicuously the worse for it, but when she is ill she gets indications of the failure of the cells of the special senses to function in an orderly way. Her case is specially instructive, as four of her five children are, like their mother, spinal neur- asthenics in spite of possessing unusual mental powers. Two of the three sons have been obliged all through life to limit most strictly their amount of exercise. They were each in succession taken away from public schools by the advice of the school doctor because " the games were killing them." By dint of great care in the avoidance of muscular fatigue they have done well in their respective callings, but if they try to live like other people they lose their sleep and cease to be able to digest. One is now in the Royal Engineers, one an author ofNEUEASTHENIA 39 some distinction, and the third a brilliant pro- fessional musician. The daughters are of the same type, very able mentally, and yet quite unable to bear muscular exercise. An amount of exercise that would be absolutely nothing to ordinary people would in both of them arrest digestion and the power of sleeping for several days. The history of this family is a good illustration of what has already been said of the interdependence of the various types of neur- asthenia. In the mother it is mainly spinal with cerebral symptoms occasionally superadded. In the sons and daughters it is again mainly spinal, but with the nerves of organic life failing in their work when muscular fatigue is induced. To the inexperienced young practitioner, who combines a firm and wholesome belief in the laws of health with a tacit disbelief in " freaks " who cannot obey these laws, such cases are at first a puzzle. He has been used to young- women who can play hockey and cricket, who can hunt and cycle, dance and climb mountains, and he begins by doubting the very existence of genuine nerve weakness apparently without cause and without structural disease. But after a time he has to admit that " freaks " do exist, to whom physical exercise is so far from bene- ficial that the limited degree of health to which they can ever attain is only to be reached by the careful avoidance of every form of exercise. Normal such lives are not; but in abnormal con- ditions all we can do is to make the best of what has to be endured, and not to err by dogmati- cally insisting on one programme for everyone, be he sound or imsound. Among the leading symptoms of cerebral neurasthenia is tenderness of the scalp, some- times diffused, oftener located in certain areas, especially over the vertex, or the eyebrow, or nape of neck. The pupils are very usually dilated, and they are often temporarily unequal in size. There is a form of asthenopia which depends not upon faults of accommodation, but purely upon the nerves. This form cannot be cured by glasses. Reading, writing, and sewing- are often accomplished only with great pain, and the conjunctiva? get congested in the attacks. The teeth decay early and rapidly in neuras- thenics. They feel extremes and changes of weather more than healthy people. Great heat tries them even more than cold. Sunstroke in its minor forms often brings on many symptoms of neurasthenia in a person previously well. Sunstroke that kills does its deadly work by the destructive action of heat on the neurones governing the actions of the heart and lungs. Beard thinks that unusual size, especially in men, often goes with great nervous debility. He says that many of his patients were " giants," and that " it cannot be too often repeated that a patient may be of great size and weight, and have a muscular development both large and hard, capable of great physical endurance, and at the same time be in his nervous system as weak as a bedridden hysterical girl." ^ Very unusual size certainly tells against constitutional vigour, especially against the power of the heart to maintain itself in serious illness. It is generally noticed, too, that exceptionally big people are less well endowed mentally than small or medium-sized individuals. Both these observations go to support Beard's statement as to the proclivity of people of very large frames to nerve weakness. The symptoms in many spinal cases are often, more or less, localised in the spine, and do not necessarily involve the visceral nerves. Many of the aching backs that delicate women complain of are neurasthenic in origin, and can be cured far more quickly by massage, feeding, and rest, than by gynaecologists. These are the cases that a while ago were labelled " spinal irrita- tion," or "irritable spine," and about which the brothers Griffen wrote much that was practically wise if pathologically crude. Some- times the spinal weakness advances to a kind of imperfect or spurious hemiplegia in which there is decided weakness on one side without loss, but often with many disturbances, of sensation. Anaesthesia is far less common in neurasthenia than in hysteria. Patients often complain much of the extreme coldness of their legs, feet, and hands. This is probably due to vasomotor disturbance leading to undue con- striction of the arterioles. It is usually con- nected with imperfect metabolism, and it is often best treated by medicines which promote elimination and diminish arterial tension. Visceral Nenrasthenia.—Over-fatigue of mind and body not unfrequently expresses itself almost solely by partial failure in the functional activity of the nerves of organic life. In many of these cases there is no backache and no special symptoms of spinal disturbance, but all the abdominal organs seem to be conspiring together to do their work in a grudging spirit. Two instances of this may be given as illustra- tions. A lady of forty-three years of age, who had never had much exercise, took to cycling. She enjoyed it greatly, and frequently rode for long distances. She was a tall, big woman weighing about twelve stone, and in addition to the fatigue anyone of this weight would feel, it was not easy to get a perfectly comfortable saddle. After some months she began to have great difficulty in digesting any ordinary food, the bowels were much confined, the evacuations abnormal, and sleep imperfect. The constipa- tion and flatulence were so distressing that the possibility of malignant stricture of the bowel was considered with some anxiety. After many months of ill-health a change to the Riviera gave her nerves a fillip, and in course of time she recovered the power of digestion and is now quite well. In the next case there is a very 1 Beard on Nervous Exhaustion, 1890, p. 117. Lewis.40 NEURASTHENIA neurotic history. The patient, a young woman of about thirty, was supporting herself by teaching, and at the same time working for the London M.A. degree. She came of a nervous stock, one sister being in an asylum and both parents highly nervous. She worked hard, fed poorly, and came out in honours. Then she collapsed, complaining of many digestive troubles and of constant pain in the region of the pylorus. She was ill for many months, but gradually recovered with rest and tonic treatment. In both these cases the nervous fatigue had ap- parently manifested itself only in the nerves of the abdominal viscera. The writer saw once in consultation some years ago a patient in whom the functions of defsecation and urination were almost completely arrested without any real paralysis. She was a single woman, thirty-three years old. Her trouble began suddenly ten years earlier, when her father, an old man of seventy-five, had had a sudden attack of retention of urine, which necessitated afterwards the habitual use of the catheter. The daughter's story was that from that day she had never been able to micturate naturally—"it took hours at her worst and minutes at her best" to pass water. The bowels were in much the same condition of suspended power. Her " whole life was occu- pied with the labour of getting relief of the bladder and bowels. She was anaemic and thin, and she slept and ate very badly. There was no evidence of anything wrong outside of the nervous system." Still more remarkable are the cases in which the secretion of urine is for a time almost completely suppressed. The writer was for some years familiar with a patient in whom any undue fatigue or nerve worry or loss of sleep was followed at once by almost complete absence of urine. The total amount passed would be 4 or 5 oz. in the twenty-four hours ; sometimes, according to the patient's own story, even less. So far as could be estimated, the amoimt of iirea was often less, for several days in succession, than one- quarter of the normal amount. These statements could not be actually verified, as the patient lived at a distance, but it is certain that the amount of urine was very much reduced, and that the urea it contained was not proportion- ately or even actually increased. By sending the patient to bed, purging her gently, and following it with iron and liquor ammon-acetatis in moderately large and repeated doses the secretion was usually soon restored. The con- dition here seen is commonly called " hysterical," and it may be that it is correct to so describe it. The patient in question, however, was not "hysterical" in any other way. All that one could be sure about was that her renal nerves were prone, upon fatigue of mind or body, to strike work. Charcot believed that in these cases of nervous ischuria the explanation of the absence of grave symptoms must lie in a remarkable arrest in the formation of excrementitious material. But even if we accept this view it is surprising that catalytic activity can be so considerably checked, unless next to no food or exercise is taken, without serious results. In the patient seen by the writer there was discomfort of a marked kind, but no symptom of grave import, in spite of most marked diminution in the daily excre- tion of urea. Both the cases narrated were extreme instances of visceral neurasthenia. The sexual form of neurasthenia is probably much more common in men than women. Some cases of ovarian pain are no doubt due to neur- asthenia, but they are rare as contrasted with the cases in which pain is due to imperfect de- velopment or to atrophy of the ovaries, to ansemia or to tubercular or inflammatory mis- chief of the ovaries or Fallopian tubes. In support of this view it may be remembered how many cases of ovarian pain are now cured by surgery. Thirty or forty years ago many of them would have been confidently labelled " ovarian neuralgia." The relation of neurasthenia to diseases of the female reproductive organs has been a battlefield for rival schools of thought for many centuries. No doubt the reflex nervous relations between the reproductive and other organs are always numerous and important. Nevertheless it is possible to exaggerate their importance, and to attribute to the influence of this part of the organism far more than properly belongs to it. Probably the truth is, that in conditions of nervous instability and malnutrition all reflexes are increased, and that a trifling abrasion of the cervix may under such circumstances be the cause of reflex disturbances that would never be seen in a person of good nervous health. For it is certain that in a large number of women reflex disturbance is not seen in the presence of pelvic ailments, either grave or trifling, and also that where such disturbances are present they can often be cured by treatment addressed mainly to the general health, and to the nutrition and maintenance of balance in the nervous centres. Sexual excesses are much more fi'equently the immediate cause of neurasthenia in men than in women. Excess in this as in other things is a relative term. A very moderate amount of sexual indulgence is enough to produce in some men a condition of neurasthenia which may be most marked, and may remain permanently. It is not very uncommon to hear of cases that began immediately after marriage. The writer is acquainted with a case in which the patient had worked very hard and successfully in establishing a large business, often going for many weeks at a time with very little sleep and irregular meals. When about thirty-five he married, and before the honeymoon was over he developed serious symptoms of cerebral neur-NEURASTHENIA 41 asthenia. He was never again able to take any responsible work; he had a horror of closed places, could not go to a theatre, concert-room, church, or crowded drawing-room. He lived for more than twenty-five years after marriage, never sleeping well, and frequently being imfit for even a life of trifling occupations. Of his six children the eldest son alone has inherited the father's neurasthenia. He has trained himself for two professions with, as a student, a considerable amount of distinction, but he can practise neither. The least bit of responsi- bility is more than he can bear; he loses his sleep at once, and is immediately a nervous wreck. The son, unlike the father, is able to take a great deal of muscular exertion without apparently being the worse for it. He can read and study to good purpose so long as he has absolutely no responsibility. In both these cases the general sense of illness was often very great and the nutrition poor. The son has wisely remained celibate. In the case of the father there was probably no actual excess in the amount of sexual activity, but what there was destroyed the unstable equilibrium between the expenditure and repair of nerve force. The influence of unnatural stimulation of the sexual organs on the nervous and general health of the individual is not easily determined. Probably the physical evil of such unnatural stimulation depends much more upon the ex- tent to which it is practised, if it is allowed to become a habit, than upon the nature of the stimulation itself. There can be no question as to the evil physical effects of the habit, when the mind is constantly turned towards the grati- fication of the sexual instincts, and when by auto-suggestion the sexual nerves are more or less constantly being excited. But this is rarely seen in perfectly sane people. Masturbation is ■extremely common in imbeciles and in persons of imperfect or very poor mental development, but in them it is the result and not the cause of their imperfection. The sense of moral de- gradation and the loss of self-respect and of self-control which result in sane people from self-abuse are its real and gravest penalties, and it may be doubted if there is any physical result, especially in the case of women, in the absence of a dominant habit. Practically it is not usually wise to treat confessions on this score from apparently healthy people in too serious a manner. They have gratified an animal instinct in an irregular way, and it is undesirable. Let them turn their thoughts resolutely into other and wholesomer channels, let them fill their minds and tire their muscles, and the temptation will depart. Advice of this kind helps their self-respect and self-control much more than it would do to treat their con- fession as if it were of a heinous sin, for which they must be full of remorse, and which they might never forget. What they want to escape is being enthralled by a bad habit, and with this in view they must get their minds thoroughly occupied with other subjects. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of neurasthenia is often extremely difficult. The observer should never decide hastily as between organic and func- tional nervous disease. The golden rule is to look for organic and to expect to find functional disease. Sir William Gull's aphorism, that " we make many more mistakes by not looking than by not knowing," is specially true when applied to the diagnosis of nervous disease. Look care- fully for evidence of organic disease. But to do this to good purpose implies that we know what to look for. " The eye sees only what it brings with it the power of seeing." Having found no objective evidence of organic disease, listen to the patient's story, asking no suggestive questions. If a neurasthenic patient is en- couraged to narrate his experience and symp- toms, there will, as a rule, be ample evidence against organic disease. No system disease one knows of ever had half the variety of symptoms and the variation of conditions described by the neurasthenic. The symptoms of organic disease vary very little from day to day, while those of neurasthenia are constantly changing, fleeting, metastatic, and recurrent. In organic diseases the reflex activity is often diminished; in functional it is usually increased. Still in many cases the diagnosis cannot be made at once. It is better to wait and watch even for weeks than to overlook organic disease. The diagnosis of neurasthenia from other functional disease is both less difficult and less important. We have to think of hysteria, insanity, per- versions of temper, and such moral defects as indolence, selfishness, and malingering, neuralgia, and the larval forms of Graves' disease. With a clear picture of neurasthenia in our minds, it is not usually difficult to distinguish it from any of these, though, as Dr. Cliflbrd AUbutt well says, " water-tight compartments " must not be expected in functional nervous disorders. Happily the name we give to an ailment often matters much less than how we treat it. Prognosis.—To form anything like a correct forecast as to the prospect of real recovery in any case of neurasthenia, we require to know much more about the conditions of the patient's life, his nervous inheritance, and his power of exercising self-control and discretion than it is ordinarily possible to know or to find out. Individual prognosis should, therefore, always be given guardedly even in cases of a hopeful class. Still it is possible to say that a large proportion of the minor forms of acquired neurasthenia recover in great measure under proper treatment. Severe cases of inherited neurasthenia do not recover under any treat- ment, if we take recovery to imply being able to enjoy life and hard work like healthy persons. No one can be sure that a severe case ofNEURASTHENIA 42 neurasthenia in a person of bad nervous in- heritance can by any method be permanently lifted out of the neurasthenic plane. The neurasthenia which results from sunstroke generally lasts a long time, but under good con- ditions and good treatment it tends in the end to disappear. Traumatic neurasthenia shows many grades of severity, these grades being probably the resultant in each case of the immediate effect of the injury to the nerve- cells and the inherited power of repair in the individual. It is worth noticing, with regard to traumatic neurasthenia from railway acci- dents, that numerous as are the cases due to this cause, they are still probably only a small minority compared with the very large number of persons who go through similar accidents without any serious nervous injury. This would suggest that most of those who suffer much from the effect of fright or severe jar, apart from actual injury, are not people of good nervous inheritance. It may be that they are more readily injured than their companions, because they are of less stable organisation. In traumatic neurasthenia the prognosis is greatly influenced by the age of the patient, the young recovering much more quickly than the old. In non-traumatic neurasthenia, on the other hand, the prognosis is not specially good in the young, as it almost always implies a bad nervous inheritance. The prognosis of each case is also much influenced by the power of the patient to com- mand the best methods of cure. A great many people are practically too poor to be cured, or even to be materially helped by treatment, because the only treatment that will do them good is costly and extends over a long time. A sanatorium, where the Weir-Mitchell method, with all its expensive adjuncts, could be applied for three guineas a week would not be remuner- ative to its proprietor, and even such a one would be too dear for a large number of the persons who would be the better for the treat- ment. Even prolonged rest and extra feeding at home are impossible to most people who work for their living. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. — Very little is known or likely to be known as to the changes or processes that underlie imperfect nutrition or repair in the ultimate units of the nervous system. Dr. Clifford AUbutt, who has written much that is wise and suggestive about neurasthenia, says on this point:— " If it be true that in many such persons the nervous organs seem to have fallen short in capacity, it is no less true that a mechanical cause can induce the same phenomena in persons originally of full nervous capacity. Perhaps in persons originally endowed with ample nervous volume a dislocation of neurons, a sluggishness of the ancillary processes of these systems, or some such retrogressive state of nutrition, as Hodge and others have demonstrated in the nerve-cells of over-worked wasps, may be equivalent to an original defect of capacity. On the other hand, as rest, massage, and high feeding cure a large number of patients, even in cases of traumatic origin, it would seem as if the pathological condition were not a mere solution of continuity, or if so, that the feeding and the other means promote a growing up of the gaps. The apathy induced by the Weir- Mitchell method may give the parts the quiescence they require for assimilation and re- adaptation. But this is mere speculation. The attribution of abnormal irritability or 'over- excitability' to nervous structure in disease is absurd. No nervous matter was ever too ex- citable ; to be excitable is its business ; in ' over- irritability ' a race-horse differs from a jackass. The more excitable our nerves the quicker and higher our life. Of nervous matter instability is the peculiar virtue ; the fault in neurasthenia is that the vibrations of the sense organs, in- stead of being absorbed into the larger harmonies of the nervous system, take to ' short circuit- ing,' whereby their energy is wastefuUy dis- sipated. In many of the inherited cases I suspect that the nervous centres, however high and various in quality and complexity, are deficient in volume or in blood-supply. Bodilj', mental, or emotional strain may produce neur- asthenia with the suddenness of a traumatic cause; young persons fagged by long mental application, by prolonged muscular exertion, performed for a time perhaps without a sense of undue fatigue, or again by the continual harass of ill-fortune, may show no patent effect till the condition reveals itself all at once. . . . Young women are much more prone than young men to break down in this way, and almost without warning ; many women never get over a long and ambitious course of study, or a long course of athletic exercises. After some con- siderable duration of stress, borne for a time with apparent ease, the breakdown may occur very suddenly, and resist the remedial power of Nature or of the physician. . . . An intimate friend of my own tells me that some twelve years ago he was persuaded when he had gone out of training to take a vacant place in his college boat in the May races. Each day's race was a hard one, and the stress so told on him that he has never been able to withstand any hard mental or bodily work since that time, though his general health is excellent. Some- times I am tempted to exaggerate this peril when I remember the many women, and not a few men, who, having taken high honours at the universities or elsewhere, out of their own circle are never heard of again. . . . Happily it is true, on the whole, that to cultivate the highest powers of the body and mind is to strengthen self-control and that self-conscious inhibition which govern us in our habits of life ;43 NEURASTHENIA but if we overdo the highest nervous centres, and empty their reservoirs—quis custodietV ^ Without depreciating Dr. Clifford AUbutt's warning it is well to remember that a very large proportion of the women who distinguish them- selves in examinations speedily marry, and are absorbed from that time in the family life. They do not look to be heard of beyond their own circle. A large number also go into the profession of teaching, which is for the most part in its relation to the outside world a silent one. The two " eloquent" professions, the Church and the Bar, are not open to women. Moreover, in the case of both men and women, many qualities other than ability and brain capacity are required to make success in life certain. Many of the people who do best in examinations are lacking in the common-sense and tact so much wanted in ordinary life. It is by no means certain that all whom Dr. AUbutt has noticed as " dropping out" of the race after university life have suffered from their hard work. Moreover, to speak of " emptying the reservoirs" of the highest nervous centres is surely to use words which obscure thought rather than illumine it. Is there any ground for supposing that we have that which even by a metaphorical stretch of language can be called "a reserve of nerve force " 1 Surely all we can suppose is that the force of the higher nerve centres and of all other centres is meant to be used, and should be used, but that it is also meant to be con- stantly renewed by the daily and hourly pro- cesses of repair, which processes depend upon sleep, relaxation, and nutrition. We are all neurasthenic when we are dead tired from want of sleep, undue exertion, and the absence of food. Is any ordinarily endowed person good for anything if he misses two or three consecutive nights of rest, if he not merely does not sleep, but cannot even go to bed and rest his muscles, if he is obliged to go on exerting himself long after he is tired, and if he has had during the same time very little food 1 There is no question here of " emptying a reservoir." The process of repair has been arrested, and profound ex- haustion is the inevitable result. The momen- tous question in such a case is, will the repairing functions start work again when permitted by cir- cumstances to do so 1 or are the nerves by which the repairing functions themselves are controlled and vitalised so broken down and disorganised that rapid repair is impossible 1 A wise man who is much over-tired knows by experience that till he has had a long rest he must ask very little from the nerves of his stomach. Repair by way of food is not at once possible. He will take the lightest and simplest liquid food, and not much of it. He will have a quick sponge-bath with hot water, and will go to bed and stay there if possible till he has next morning digested 1 AUbutt's System of Medicine, vol. viii. pp. 150, 151. another very small and light meal. Whether he will suffer for a long time from the exhaustion due to undue expenditure of nerve force depends upon two questions. Will sleep be at once or qviickly possible to him 1 and will the nerves of nutrition quickly recover sufficiently to supply the cells of the brain and spinal cord with the pabulum they need for their restoration to activity ? If the nutrition of the higher centres is so far enfeebled that sleep from the first is difficult, imperfect, and scanty, the vicious circle is begun. The nutritional nerves are day by day still further depressed, in the absence of natural and restful sleep, and they presently give out, and cannot work at anything like the normal rate. Then the circle is complete. Tired nerve-cells of brain and cord, irritated by imperfect blood-supply, no sleep possible, nutri- tional activity very low, repair therefore almost nil,—neurasthenia the result. The circle once forged is terribly hard to break. It can only be broken by gradually restoring the processes which make for repair, i.e. the power of sleeping and the power of digesting, and by checking in the meantime everything which increases the expenditure of nervous energy. An over-driven horse, dropping down under the burden of dragging a too heavy load uphill, does not want the whip, but that his load should be lightened. A student who tries to live upon coffee because it puts off sleep and diminishes the sense of hunger, and enables him for a time to do with very little of both sleep and food, is recklessly trifling with his powers of repair. He is with ignorant rashness putting his name to a physio- logical "bill" which he will, in too many cases, find it hard to meet even at the end of years of damaged nerve force. Nor is it only in nervous failure that overstrain makes itself felt. Long-sustained high tension tells directly upon the heart, and in many cases also on the nutrition of the arteries. In Balzac's case, a man of naturally great constitutional vigour died at the age of fifty of dilatation of the heart and its consequences. As one of his biographers writes: " His excess of labour, his sleepless nights, his abuse of coffee, had undermined his seemingly indestructible health." ^ Treatment.—(a) Preventive.—Acquired neur- asthenia is one of the many things which it is easier to prevent than to cure. Parents and school masters and mistresses might with ad- vantage know more than they do about the risks of overstrain, both as to mental work and exer- cise, and about the difference in nervous strength between some children and others. Even in the best public schools for boys the food is too often not as good as it should be, bearing in mind how rapidly boys grow and the amount of exercise they constantly take. It is almost impossible to give growing boys and girls too much food, provided it is simple and sufficiently ^ Encycl. Brit., 9th edition.NEURASTHENIA 44 varied; they ought not to be obliged to get food for breakfast, etc., from cook-shops because the food provided at school is unattractive or badly cooked and served. With girls it is almost always difficult to get them to eat enough be- tween the ages of fourteen and eighteen ; if they are at all anaemic they are dainty and fastidious ; by eating little the anaemia is increased and the nutrition of the nervous system suffers with that of all their other tissues. Overstrain of mind or body in the young should be at least recog- nised as possible, and as far as may be it should be prevented. It is one of the advantages of resident schools over day schools that girls and boys living at school cannot work unreasonably much or late without the head of the house knowing it. When they live at home they fall between the authority of the school master or mistress and that of the mother, and practically they do pretty much what they like. At school there is much more play, more supervision, and more discipline than at home. Young women at college not very rarely produce varying degrees of neurasthenia by the combination of long hours of work, eating too little, and drink- ing tea and coffee to excess. Some of them think to take care of their health by being at the same time active members of several game clubs—hockey, tennis, etc. When the excite- ment ends and their place in the list is deter- mined, not a few are good for nothing for several years to come. It would have been infinitely wiser if they had eaten twice as much of plain food, taken less exercise, coffee only as a rare luxury, and tea not more than once or twice a day. They might possibly have had a less good place in the lists, but in its stead they would have had health and vigour, instead of exhaustion, on entering upon the work of their lives. The influence of coffee in inducing neur- asthenia is a point well worthy the attention of total abstainers. It works in two ways : by checking appetite, and by preventing sleep. The neurasthenic by inheritance wants to be well nourished, and he needs much sleep. He should shun coffee as he would poison. Dr. Beard points out that coffee does much less harm in very cold and in very hot climates than it does in England and in the temperate parts of America. Possibly the explanation of this, if it be true, is that neither in extreme cold nor in tropical heat is hard work of mind or body possible to the extent it is in temperate climates. Both heat and cold induce lethargy, that is, diminished activity of nerves, and the effect of coffee in conditions of lethargy, as for example in opium poisoning, is to bring up the activity of the nerves to the normal. They are not then over-stimulated by it, because they started from a lower plane of sensibility or of activity. They are roused up to the normal level instead of to a level beyond the normal. People ex- posed to severe cold even in England are in the same way better for taking coffee in moderation, and it does not then over-stimulate them. The varying influence of coffee in different climates fits in with the fact pointed out by Beard that neurasthenia is greatly more common in coun- tries which enjoy a temperate climate. Con- tinuous work here being possible, many more people suffer from nerve-exhaustion than in places where indolence is much more common (b) Curative.—The treatment of neurasthenia is much the same whether the condition is due to an accident, to overstrain, or to a faulty inheritance. The limitation of the patient's powers must be recognised, and all excessive calls upon them avoided. He wants a great deal of sleep and much food. When he sleeps soundly and eats liberally he is on the road to recovery. The difficulty of treatment lies mainly in the inability to sleep or eat naturally, and in adequate amount. Practically the im- portant question with all severe cases of neur- asthenia is whether the Weir-Mitchell method is necessary, or whether they can be cured by simpler means. No absolute indication can be given on this point. All severe and chronic cases should try the Weir-Mitchell plan fairly and fully if they can afford it. It costs up- wards of £200 if the after-cure holiday with a trained companion be included in the reckoning. An important point in the success of the Weir- Mitchell treatment is that the patient should wish to try it. If he is forced into it against his will, it often fails. The essential features of the method are absolute rest for some weeks, seclusion from friends, letters, family, etc.; a very liberal dietary, and massage and electricity to promote digestion and the nutrition of the muscles. Each case needs to be specially watched, and the diet to be suited to the powers of digestion. Very good nurses, too, are essen- tial. They must be bright, kindly, sensible, and agreeable. The main difficulty about applying the method is to find exactly the right kind of attendant. In favourable cases three stone of weight is put on in six weeks, the patient by the end of the course is sleeping naturally, and is presently able to resume ordinary life. Re- lapses, however, are not very imcommon, and patients are usually very unwilling to go through the treatment a second time. When it is impossible to order a course of this kind in the hands of experienced people something may be done, if the patient is docile and really willing to be cured (which is not invariably the case), by ordering a definite and large amount of rest, preferably with one companion away from home, and a definite and liberal dietary. Many slighter cases have, in the writer's experience, improved immensely by staying in bed till mid-day for a month, with window wide open day and night, in a quiet and sunny room, and with the addi- tion to each meal of a slice of old bread well buttered and a tumbler of milk. Of drugsNEURASTHENIA 45 there are the bromides, laxatives, and special nerve tonics, such as valerian, the salts of zinc, quinine, and iron. It is a mistake to think drugs are useless. Much may be done by their aid if given wisely and courageously. The bromides are invaluable where sleep is very difficult. They should be given in large doses for a short time till a powerful sedative effect is produced. Three or four days of large doses (gr. 30, 40, or 50 at a dose) are usually enough. The effect should be watched. Bromides do not agree with everyone. After the bromides, and following them, the salts of zinc, the valerianate, bromide, and oxide should be given, and if possible with them cod-liver oil. After a week or so of the zinc salts, the mineral acids with mix. vom. in full doses, and arsenic in minute and gradually increased doses, should be given for a month. Baths of many kinds are also in- valuable in conditions of neurasthenia. The re- freshing effects of a large hot bath, and even of sponging the face for a minute or two with quite hot water, are familiarly known. We are not quite sure how the hot water acts upon the central nerves, but there is no doubt that it does affect them for the moment very much as sleep does. It refreshes, and it is refreshment that weak nerve-centres crave. The notion that hot water is weakening is an error. If quite hot and applied only for a few moments and as douche, not in the form of a large bath, it is invigorating. Where the Weir-Mitchell method is impossible it is well worth while to prescribe three or four daily short douches of the neck and face with water of 105° F. or more, and to order the feet to be put into still hotter water for two or three minutes twice a day perhaps, in the afternoon and at bedtime. As the case improves the morning douching may be done with moderately cold water, till in the end the patient is taking a sitz bath every morning in water of 60° F., and a quite hot sitz bath every night. It is well to order definite treatment and only for a limited time, and not to let the patient impose his invalidism on the household per- manently. Six weeks ought to be long enough to enforce a strict mode of life, and at the end of the time decided upon, the patient should have another set of rules to act upon permanently. In framing these rules great care should be taken not to impose needless burdens on the patient's family. Neurasthenia is not hysteria, but, like other people, the subjects of neuras- thenia can also be hysterics and much too en- grossed in themselves and their symptoms. In their own interests they should be encouraged to think of the welfare and comfort of others as much as possible. For instance, a neuras- thenic woman who has been helped by a six weeks' course might be told to have every day two hours of complete solitude and quiet, to be in bed by 10 p.m. and not up before 7.30 a.m., and to take certain specified spongings and baths. Inside the given rules she should be encouraged to live a normal and social life, and to think of everyone rather than of herself It is better that all neurasthenics should know that their special type of constitution cannot be altered or got rid of. It will stay with them, and they must make the best possible of their lives in spite of it. They must not be wasteful of their nervous strength ; they must use what they have wisely, and look carefully to its renewal by food and sleep. We are often asked if neurasthenia is not increasing. Probably it is. As the evolution of society advances the demands made upon the nervous strength of the majority of people are bound to increase. The weak ones feel the added burden, and they will fall out in in- creasing numbers unless their inherited nervous development keeps pace with the evolution of society. It is useless to wish to go back to a more primitive and simple life. It is better to think of what might be done to raise the general standard of nervous strength by the promotion of temperance and self-control in those from whom the next generation will inherit their nervous organisation. The world has not yet seen, possibly it will never see, how far nervous disease and nervous weakness could be dimin- ished by getting rid of the influences which lead, directly and indirectly, and possibly through several generations, to a low level of vitality and to inherent defects of nutrition in the units of which the nervous system is the aggregate. And though it would be Utopian to hope that at any time in the future the perfect development of all civilised human beings shall cease to be checked by malign influences which need not have existed, it is reasonable to hope that with a gradual advance in knowledge, in ethics, and in moral strength, such influences will in time be much less often responsible for a bad nervous inheritance than they now are. Neuratrophy.—Atrophy of a nerve or of part of the nervous system. Neurectasis. — Nerve-stretching as an operative measure, e.g. in sciatica. Neurectomy. — The operation of ex- cision of a part of a nerve. See Nerves, Peri- pheral—Neuralgia {Treatment); Sympathetic Ophthalmitis (Treatment, Optico-ciliary Nev/rec- tomy). Neurectopia. — Displacement or ab- normal situation of a nerve (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, eKTO7r05, out of place). NeurenteriC Canal.—A tubular con- nection between the neural canal and amniotic sac in the embryo and the intra-embryonic part of the archenteron ; a trace of it has been seenNEURENTERIC CANAL 46 in the human embryo. See Embryology {End of Second Week). NeurhypnolOgy.—The science of the phenomena of hypnotism or nerve-sleep. See Hypnotism. Ne uridine.—A ptomaine, malodorous but non-poisonous, produced during the putrefaction of beef, muscle, horse-flesh, fish, etc.; its formula is Neurine (Cf,Hj3N0) and choline (C.HjjNOj), on the other hand, are toxic. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Putrefac- tion of Fish). Neurilemma. — The primitive sheath of a nerve-fibre, a thin transparent membrane, to be distinguished from the white sheath (medullary sheath) or sheath of Schwann, which is developed later. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve). NeurilemmitiS.—Inflammation of the neurilemma {q.v.). Neurine.—(1) Nerve tissue, the white and grey substance of the central nervous system; also (2) a poisonous ptomaine or alka- loid (CjHjgNO) produced by the decomposition of flesh, whose action resembles muscarine in some particulars and curara in others ; also (3) an extract of nerve tissue used medicinally. Neuritis. — Inflammation of a nerve. See Nerves, Peripheral, Injuries and Dis- eases {Traumatic Neuritis, Multiple Neuritis, etc.). See also Alcoholism {Sensory Variations and Pathology) ; Balneology {Disorders of the Nervous System); Bed-Sores {Acute Bed-Sore) ; Beriberi {Sym2)toms); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Results, Trophic Changes); Chest- Wall, Affections of {Pain in the Chest, Inter- costal Neuritis); Chlorosis {Symptoms) ; De- formities {Metatarsalgia); Electricity {Gal- vanism in Neuritis); Gout {Irregular Gout, Nervous System); Hemiplegia {Trophic and other Changes); Hydropathy {I71 Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Leprosy {Symptoms of Lepra Alaculo-Anmsthetica) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of (Complications, Nervous System, Peripheral Newritis); Nails, Affections of {Diseases of the Nervous System); Osteo-Arthropathies {Mode of Production); VvuvvKJt {Symptomatic, Nervous); Retina and Optic Nerve {Inflamma- tion of the Optic Nerve); Rheumatism in Chil- dren {Nervous Affections); Rheumatism, Rheu- matoid Arthritis {Clinical Characters, Neuritis); Syphilis (Visceral, Peripheral Nerves); Syrin- gomyelia {Diagnosis); Tabes Dorsalis {Dia- gnosis) ; Toxicology {Chronic PlumUsm, Symp- toms); ToxicohOGY {Carbon Bisulphide); Trades, Dangerous {Bisulphide of Carbon Poisoning); Undulant Fever {Symptoms, Nervous System). Neuro-.—in compound words neiiro- (Gr. vtvpov, a nerve), as a prefix, signifies relating to nerves or the nervous system; e.g. neuroblast (an embryonic nerve-cell which develops into a mature nerve-cell and nerve-fibre), neuroclonic (in relation to spasms of a nervous nature), and neuromyositis (inflammation affecting both nerve and muscle). Neurobiacia,.—A state of nervous in- sensibility (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, and /3Aa|, in- active or sluggish). Neurocardiac. — Belonging to the nervous system and to the heart; thus exoph- thalmic goitre has been called a neurocardiac malady. NeurOCllOroiditiS. —Inflammation of the choroid and the optic nerve. See Retina AND Optic Nerve {Inflammation). NeuroCOSle.—The central canal of the spinal cord and the cerebral ventricles. Neurocyte.—A nerve-cell or neuron. Neurodendron.—A neuron {q.v.). Neurodin.—An antipyretic drug (acetyl- paraoxyphenyimethane) used in neuralgia and in fever (dose, 5-20 grs.). Neurodynia.—Nerve pain; practically synonymous with neuralgia. Neuro-epitheiium.—The epithelium entering into the constitution of the end organs of sensory nerves {e.g. of the retina and tongue). Neurofibroma.—A swelling of a nerve due to hyperplasia of the connective tissue of the fibre. Neurofibromatosis. —A disease characterised by the occurrence of multiple neurofibromata ; von Recklinghausen's disease. In this malady there are tumours on the nerve- trunks, multiple subcutaneous fibrous nodules {Elephantiasis neuromatosa), pigmented cuta- neous areas or congenital nsevi, and various sensory and motor phenomena and mental changes. A. Thomson's work on Neuroma and Neurofibromatosis, published in 1900, gives a good account of this peculiar disease. Neurog'lia. — The delicate connective tissue of the nervous system. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, Spinal Cord); Insanity, Patho- logy OF {Neuroglia); Syringomyelia {Patho- logical Anatomy). Neurog^iioma. See Brain, Tumours OF {Glioma). NeurOg^raphy.—Descriptive neurology. Neurohypnologry. See Nburhyp- nology.NEUROKERATIN 47 Neurokeratin.—A felt-work of horn- like material which enters into the constitution of the medullary sheath of a nerve. See Physi- ology, Tissues {Nerve, Axon). NeurolOg'y. — The science which deals with the nervous system from the standpoints of anatomy, physiology, and pathology. See Nervous System, Diseases of, for cross-references. Neurolysis.—The state of exhaustion of a nerve produced by prolonged over-stimulation. Neuroma,.—A tumour arising from a nerve and consisting either of nervous tissue (true neuroma) or of connective mucoid, or some other tissue (false neuroma). See Tumours (Connective-tissue Group, Neuromata). See also Brain, Tumours of {Morbid Anatomy); Nerves, Peripheral {Tiimours, True and False Neuro- mata). Neuromere. — A primitive segment of the cranial part of the neural canal in embryonic life; there are said to be about eleven of them, and they are supposed to correspond to the cranial nerves. NeurometadrasiS.—Animal magnet- ism or hypnotism (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, /iera, with, and SpdaL/jLo^, active). NeuromimesiS.—Nervous mimicry, or the phenomena seen in hysterical and neuras- thenic patients which simulate diseases : there is often a combination of voluntary with in- voluntary action in the production of these simulated maladies. See Malingering {Nervous Mimicry) ; Hysteria ; Neurasthenia. Neuromuscular.—Belonging both to the muscular and to the nervous tissues or functions of the body, e.g. the neuromuscular mechanism of sight. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism. Neuron or Neurone.—Formerly the term neuron was used as a synonym for the cerebrospinal nervous axis, but now it has a re- stricted and well-defined meaning, viz., a unit of the nervous system, one of the cells (with all its processes) which enter into the composition of that system. Each cell has at least one chief process, the axon, and usually a number of other processes which branch and form dendrites on which are seen buds or gemmules ; neighbouring neurons come into relationship not by continuity but by contiguity of their dendrites, and this relationship is named a Synapsis. See Physio- logy, Tissues {Nerve, Neurons); Insanity, Pathology op {Pathological Anatomy, Cortical Nerve-Cells) ; Unconsciousness {Amoeboidism of Nerve-Cells, Neuron Theory). Neuronal.—A hypnotic drug (bromo- diethyl-acetamide) given in doses of 10 to 20 grains in epilepsy and insomnia; mixed with antifebrin it constitutes neurofebrin, used in migraine. Neuronophagia.—The destruction of neurons by phagocytes. Neuron OS US. — A neurosis; e.g. the neuronosi of the shin are such morbid states as dei'matalgia and antesthesia, and form one of the groups of the dermatonosi (Fuchs). NeuropatholOg'y.—The pathology of diseases of the nervous system. Neuropathy.—A nervous malady or affection. Neuroplasty.—The reparative surgery of nerve structures, e.g. nerve-grafting. NeuroporuS.—The opening by which (in the embryo) the medullary groove communi- cates with the exterior ; it is the last part of the medullary groove to be closed in. NeuroproSOpalg'la. — Neuralgia of the fifth nerve (Gr. vevpov, a nerve, Trpdo-wTrov, the face, and aA.yos, pain). See Fifth Nerve, Affections ; Nerves,^ Neuralgia. NeuroretinitiS.—Inflammation of the optic nerve and retina. See Retina and Optic Nerve {Injiammation of the Optic Nerve); Mumps {Complications, Affections of the Eye); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Sympto- matology, Saturnine Encephalopathy). Neurorrhaphy. — The operation by which a divided nerve is united by sutures. Neuroses.—Functional disorders of the nervous system {e.g. neuralgia) in connection with which no structural alterations have (as yet) been discovered. See also Climacteric Insanity {Neuroses of the Climacteric); Heart, Neuroses of ; Hysteria {Sensory Disorders) ; Nose, Nasal Neuroses ; Spine, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Raihvay Spine or Traumatic Neuro- sis) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Special Symptomatology and Treatment of Gas- tric Neuroses). Neuroses, Occupation. Introductory. ..... 47 Etiology ...... 48 Writing Neurosis ..... 48 Other Occupation Neuroses ... 49 Pathology 49 Diagnosis ...... 50 Prognosis ...... 50 Treatment . . . . . .51 By the term " occupation neuroses," or fatigue spasms, is meant a group of functional disorders, characterised by muscular spasm, pain, tremor, and weakness, which are provoked by prolonged48 NEUROSES, OCCUPATION employment of the special movements called for by the occupation or trade concerned, and by no other, the same muscles being capable of being used normally for all other movements. The disease must then be sharply distinguished from many craft palsies which are due to local muscular wasting, such as the wasting of the hand muscles, which may occur in many trades, and from diseases directly due to some toxic element in the particular trade, such as lead neuritis in painters, brassfounder's ague from inhalation of the fumes of deflagrated zinc, mercurial tremor, etc. Even more carefully must fatigue spasm be distinguished from local muscular weakness and pain due to early organic disease as neuritis, syringomyelia, or new growths. Etiology. — Writer's cramp, or scrivener's palsy, is by far the most common of these dis- tressing affections, but other forms met with are violin and violoncello players' cramp, pianoforte player's cramp, sempstress's cramp, telegraphist's, sawyer's, milker's, tailor's, treadler's, compositor's, ballet-dancer's, cigarette-maker's, card-player's, letter-sorter's, knitter's, and hammerman's or smith's cramp, miner's and mountaineer's nystag- mus, clarionet and flute players'and glass-blower's spasm of the lips, and indeed many others. Spasm of the hand in barbers, when holding the razor, has been recorded, and I have also met with a case of typical occupation neurosis in a hair- dresser aged nineteen—numbness and marked weakness in the right hand, with pain in the wrist and forearm after work, followed three weeks later by cramp and spasm of the hand muscles, occurring in the mornings, and lasting for some hours daily. The symptoms did not commence until he had followed his employ- ment for three years, and was therefore perfectly accustomed to haircutting. This point is typical of all the occupation neuroses, that the spasm and pain are not developed during the learning of the art or trade, when the muscular effort and attention involved are the greatest, but in the stage of perfection of manipulation, when the act has become practically automatic. Writing Neurosis.—Writer's cramp forms the large majority of all cases of occupation neurosis, and occurs especially in those who are accus- tomed to do their writing in a cramped style, holding the pen low down near the nib, and taking the little finger as the fixed point, in order to produce " copper-plate" writing, by various movements of the thenar and inter- osseous muscles. It is writing in this cramped style for long periods at a time which especially predisposes to the affection ; and lawyer's clerks, and others who gain their livelihood by copying in a clear hand, form a large proportion of the siiffercrs. Shorthand writers and others who cultivate a free style of writing from the shoulder and elbow scarcely ever suffer from this com- plaint. Neuropathic heredity plays an import- ant part in the development of these neuroses, and there is often a history of epilepsy or insanity, asthma, torticollis, hysteria, or even writer's cramp itself, occurring in other members of the family—for example, five members of one family I have met with suffered from writer's cramp; or the patient himself may suffer from migraine, convulsive tic, or stuttering. Anxiety, business worry, or other prolonged mental stress may predispose to its development, while a similar result may be precipitated by local injury of the limb, such as a sprain or perio- stitis, or after recovery from an attack of hemiplegia or any debilitating illness. The excitement produced by attending a spiritualist seance has been known to be followed by the development of writing spasm, and indeed by many other psychoses and neuroses. The large majority of sufferers are of the male sex, and between twenty and fifty years of age. Females only occasionally suffer, probably on account of their daily bread not often depending on writing day by day for hours, and the prognosis when such trouble does occur is con- sequently better than in most men, who usually find it more difficult to put aside the daily toil and take the rest from the harmful employment that is absolutely essential to a cure. Heredity is more commonly observed when a woman is the sufferer. Symptoms.—The onset is almost invariably gradual, though cases of sudden onset after many hours' continuous writing have been recorded. The first symptom in writer's cramp is usually spasm of the thumb or index finger while writing, so that the pen is not guided quite properly, unintentional strokes are made, or the pen may be dropped or driven into the paper. The writing thus becomes jerky and illegible, owing to the fingers and thumb grip- ping the pen too forcibly, and the pen slipping between the first and second fingers. The writ- ing becomes slower and more and more of an effort, and sooner or later pain is noticed either in the finger or thumb, or in the front of the wrist or forearm. This pain, which sometimes is the initial symptom, is aching in character, and is excited at first only by the particular move- ments that are affected, as in writing ; but later, if the writing or other handicraft be persisted in, the pain and spasm may affect other move- ments, or sometimes the pain alone may extend and affect almost every movement of the arm. Tenderness of the nerves in places is common, and tremor may occasionally be very marked. In one case of hammerman's cramp that I have met with, the tremor was so persistent and extensive in the affected hand and forearm as to suggest at first the diagnosis of paralysis agitans. Other sensory symptoms may be tingling or formication of the hand and even of the leg on the same side. Hypergesthesia of one side and heraiansesthesia of functional typeNEUROSES, OCCUPATION 49 have also been met with. Weakness without spasm of the particular movements involved may be rarely met with, and thus Gowers distinguishes four forms, the spastic, tremulous, neuralgic, and paralytic, though almost invari- ably two or more of these are combined. In a case of old-standing writer's cramp, weakness in addition to spasm and pain may extend to other movements, though in early and typical cases of the disease no weakness whatever of the muscles involved in the writing spasm can be detected, except in the particular movements of manipulating the pen. These muscles are especially the opponens and abductor poUicis and the first and second dorsal interossei. The electrical reactions of these muscles usually show no change early in the course of the aiTection, though later on, at first hyperexcita- bility to both currents, followed by slight diminution of reaction to both faradism and galvanism, and slight sluggishness of contraction may be noticed. Later still, some wasting of the affected muscles is sometimes seen, though any marked wasting is strongly suggestive of some organic disease such as neuritis or polio- myelitis. The disease in its course shows a marked tendency to gradual spread and increase of the symptoms so long as the faulty method of writing is persisted in, and especially if prolonged spells of writing have to be done. Even correction of the mode of writing and altering the pose of arm and the shape of the pen are usually insufficient to effect a cure unless the cardinal point of rest is also assured. If writing with the left hand be essayed as a means of resting the right hand, the spasm may in time spread to the left side, or other movements may develop spasm, such as in playing the piano or in sewing. Other Occupation Neuroses. —• Pianoforte players are apt to develop cramp in the exten- sors of the wrist and fingers from the somewhat strained position taught in some schools. Violin players may develop cramp in either the bow hand, or in the flexors of the left wrist and fingers. Telegraphist's cramp is rare, and occurs only in users of the Morse instrument, from the repeated flexion and extension of the finger required to depress the key in marking the dots and dashes. Haircutter's cramp I have met only one example of, and inquiries amongst the operatives in large hairdressing saloons have always elicited the reply that it is imknown. Ballet-dancers get cramp in the gastrocnemius and long flexors of the toes, from the great strain in keeping the weight of the body poised for long periods on the points of the toes. Cramp of the flexors of the wrist and thenar muscles I have met with in a gentleman devoted to piquet, from the constant sustained efl'ort in holding the cards fanwise in the left hand. Miner's and mountaineer's nystagmus is a peculiar affection produced by the constant VOL. VII strained position of the eyes, as in coal-miners who have to lie on one side in holing out the coal, necessitating the eyes being constantly directed to one side. The predominant symp- tom in these cases is not spasm of the eye muscles, but tremor or inco-ordination, which may be so violent when the eyes are turned in the direction in which the eyes were originally strained, as to cause objects to dance before the patient's eyes. Hammerman's cramp, smith's palsy, or liephsestic hemiplegia, as it was origin- ally named by Dr. Frank-Smith in 1869, occurs in men who are constantly wielding hammers varying in weight from two to seven pounds, forgemen and nailmakers. Since there must be many thousand recurring contractions of the shoulder and arm muscles daily in these men, as they work by piecework, it is easily conceivable that a fatigue cramp analogous to writer's cramp might be set up. Most of the recorded cases, however, are distinct cases of hemiplegia, of sudden onset, and undoubtedly due to an actual brain lesion. Some are more typical, with gradual onset, the arm being first held close to the side, so as to fix the scapula and rest the serratus magnus. All the usual charac- teristic symptoms may be met with—spasm, pain, tremor, and weakness. In one of my two cases tremor was the predominant symptom, being so severe as to suggest at first paralysis agitans. In the other case there was pain referred to the bend of the elbow on clenching the fist, as in the act of grasping the hammer, apparently so severe that he could scarcely exert any pressure with the hand. There was also marked weakness of the triceps in extend- ing the forearm, as in the act of striking with the hammer, while the power of the muscle was quite good in keeping the arm out straight when already placed in that position. This incon- sistency in the strength of the muscle is a proof of the weakness being functional, and not due to any organic lesion. In addition to the weakness of his arm, his right leg was weak, and dragged in walking, apparently resembling Dr. Smith's cases; but in addition there was marked right hemiansesthesia with slight con- traction of the right visual field, and diminution of hearing, taste, and smell on the right side. These symptoms persisted for four or five months under treatment by faradism; but they gradu- ally disappeared, and he made a perfect re- covery, and returned to his work. Pathology.—Three views have been put for- ward : (1) That there is a local weakness of the muscles; (2) that the spasm is set up reflexly by sensory impressions received from the part in question ; (3) that the disease is central in origin, due to exhaustion and inco-ordination of the centres in the brain, a neurosis. The first theory has been strongly advocated by Poore, who claims that there is often some wasting of muscle, and more often electrical 4NEUROSES, OCCUPATION 50 changes in the muscles, and that the weakness is rot always limited to the particular move- ment involved. Against this is to be set the undoubted fact that in early cases there is often no trace of wasting or of electrical change, and that the disability is purely limited to the particular movement, as in writer's cramp. Again, weakness of those muscles due to a neuritis or poliomyelitis does not cause any spasm on movement, and the spasm in writer's cramp is often far wider than the antagonists of the weak muscles. The weakness is certainly not primary; the electrical changes are late, and the wasting later still. Nor can the ex- planation be a reflex spasm set up by sensory stimuli, because there is no obvious sensory stimulus as an initial symptom, pain being sometimes absent for months after the spasm has become well marked. The pain is neuralgic in character, and is due to a morbid over-action of the sensory centres, the nerve tenderness being similarly neuralgic, and not due to any neuritis. The pain, when established, no doubt helps in the vicious circle of developing the spasm, just as the pain from a sprain or local periostitis may act as the exciting cause in the development of one of the occupation neuroses. The true pathology of these affections is no doubt to be referred to the central nervous system, that the disease is a neurosis, brought about by overwork of the co-ordinating centres in the brain whereby the movements are effected, the lines of resistance being so lowered that at last the movement becomes practically mechanical, and scarcely requires any thought. When this stage is reached, too constant and prolonged drafts on the liberation of nerve energy of these centres is apt to induce spasmodic overflow of the explosions of nerve force into neighbouring centres, whereby mus- cular spasm and tremor, with weakness of the particular movement, are the result. Later, the same process may spread to neighbouring sensory centres, producing pain referred to the affected part and areas of local tenderness. Impairment of function is, as Gowers says, likely to be accompanied by impairment of nutrition, and with disordered nutrition of the cortical cells some wasting is not unlikely, with diminution of electric irritability to both currents, as is frequently seen in many cases of hemiplegia. Such wasting is therefore second- ary, and is not to be looked on as the cause of the trouble. The fact that it is never in the learning stage, which is often long and painful as in writing, that writer's cramp is developed, is strongly in favour of the theory last put forward, and against that which would ascribe the trouble to a local muscular weakness, which would be more likely to be produced during the laborious stage of the acquirement of the art. The muscles are more easily fatigued then than afterwards, when by frequent use their nutrition is improved, and prolonged eff"orts are better borne. The fact that writer's cramp is apt soon to attack the left hand if persistently used when the right hand has been already similarly dis- abled is a convincing argument against the peripheral theory of the disease. The neurosis theory could scarcely be doubted in the case of the hammerman mentioned above, who, in addition to hammerman's cramp, had a typical functional right hemiplegia, the whole clearing up completely after persistent faradic treatment. Diagnosis.—This is generally obvious in the case of writer's cramp, and is less likely to be overlooked than to be suggested when there is commencing organic disease affecting the hand, as paralysis agitans or the gradual onset of hemiplegia. In two recent cases I have seen of syringomyelia, with muscular wasting and pain in the upper extremity, in each case writer's cramp was the first suggested explanation of the symptoms,—one of them a man engaged in the account department of a large newspaper office, and having many hours' writing to do daily. In his case the intrinsic hand muscles were wasting. The other case was a laundry- woman who wrote very little, and that with no great facility, hwt whose first symptoms were cramp in the right hand and pain when writing, ceasing on stopping writing. No atrophy of the hand muscles occurred in her case, the wasting being limited to the upper arm and trapezius, though the analgesia was present only on the hands and lower part of the forearms. Before making the diagnosis of writer's cramp, it is therefore necessary to carefully examine for any signs of organic disease, such as neuritis, slight hemiplegia, or spinal disease. Rheumatoid ar- thritis, chronic rheumatism, or gout might simi- larly cause disability in writing. As a general rule, if the weakness and spasm are limited to the act of writing, and to that alone, the dia- gnosis of writer's cramp is clear, though, it is true, exceptions to this rule may be occasionally met with, as in the case of the laundry-woman already referred to. Slight fatigue after writing is liable to be confounded with true writer's cramp, especially in nervous people who have seen or read of the disorder. The absence of true spasm in these cases will generally give the required clue. Other occupation neuroses are perhaps more liable to be overlooked, though in these cases also the occurrence of the symptoms only during some particular act, while the limb is practically free from weakness or spasm in all other move- ments, will decide the diagnosis. Prognosis.—If treatment is begun early, and rest from writing or from any other occupation that is at fault can be assured, recovery is most probable. The probability of recovery from writer's cramp is greater in those cases in which other causes but excessive writing have con-NEUROSES, OCCUPATION 51 tributed to its development, such as local in- jury, mental anxiety, or debilitating illness; and the same reasoning applies to the other occupation neuroses. If the disease has become fully developed, and especially if pain be a prominent feature, recovery is less likely and more tedious. The most unfavourable cases of writer's cramp are those in which the hours of writing are long, and rest is an impossi- bility owing to the dependence on the employ- ment for a livelihood. Recurrence in the left hand sometimes follows if that is used in place of the right, especially, according to Gowers, when neuralgic pain is the predominant feature. Treatment.—As already said, rest is an essen- tial part of the treatment, though much may be done in improving the general condition by tonics, iron, and strychnine, change of air and scene, and avoidance of all mental worry. Since, in writer's cramp, a faulty method of writing is largely the cause of the neurosis, in the early stages of the disorder the symptom may be arrested by attention to this. A thick cork penholder should be substituted for the ordinary penholder or quill—the kind of nib matters little so long as it will glide easily over the paper— and the pen must be held about its middle, so that the end of the middle finger is at least one and a half inches distant from the point of the pen. Some patients find some relief by holding the pen between the first and second fingers, though this is not to be generally recommended. The act of writing must be performed from the shoulder in as free a manner as possible, the fingers, wrist, and thumb being held quite motionless, so that a line may be written across a sheet of notepaper without taking the point of the pen off the paper. In order to take as much strain off" the arm as possible, it is a good plan to have the front of the writing-table curved deeply so as to fit closely around the body, in order that the elbow may rest on the table. The surface of the table should be well polished, so that the elbow may glide easily in this method of writing from the shoulder. Another way of compassing the same end may be obtained by sitting sideways at an ordinary table, so that the right arm may rest upon it. If, as soon as the symptoms are first noticed, three weeks or a month's complete rest from writing can be obtained, and then when the occupation is again resumed, the style be cor- rected as above, a cure may sometimes be effected. Local treatment is also of some value, and the patient should be encouraged to knead the muscles of the thenar eminence and the first dorsal interosseus with the left hand several times a day, and also at the same time bo practise flexing and extending the thumb and fingers in all directions for a few minutes two or three times a day. Local galvanism is Qot of much use, but may be tried if the pain is severe, or if there be wasting. In a severe case writing with the right hand must be entirely given up for six months if possible, and the left hand used in its place. If the writing is of such a kind that it can be done by a typewriter, the use of this may be attended by no discomfort even in a bad case of writer's cramp, and the left hand may be used alone if pain or spasm is induced in the right. For this purpose the Yost machine is to be preferred to the Remington, on account of the upper case for the capitals being worked by a different set of keys from those for the small letters, thus necessitating a freer and less cramped movement of the hands. A¥hat has been said for writer's cramp applies generally to all other occupation neuroses, rest from the harmful employment being the first essential. If definite evidence of functional weakness or ansesthesia be found in addition, these may be combated by energetic faradism and massage. Neurotomy.—Division of a nerve, as performed in persistent cases of neuralgia; nerve-section. See Nerves, Neuralgia (Treat- ment, Surgical). Neusser's Granules. — Basophilic granules occasionally seen in leucocytes, and perhaps indicative of the uric acid diathesis. Neutra.1 Dyes. — One of the three varieties of aniline dyes (acid, basic, and neutral), possessing a selective affinity for the neutrophile granules of leucocytes. Neutrophile Granules.—Fine granules, having a selective affinity for neutral dyes, found in normal polynuclear leucocytes and also in such pathological forms as the mononuclear leucocyte, the myelocyte, and the small pseudo-lymphocyte ; it is doubtful whether it is correct to name them neutrophilic, for they have really a " minimal attraction for acid dyes." See Leucocytosis {Ordinary Finely Granular Leucocytosis); Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Cells of Blood, Leucocytes). New-born Infant. Definition and Introductory Remarks 52 Anatomical Peculiarities 52 Physiological Peculiarities . 5.3 Hygiene and Management 54 Feeding ....... 55 Diseases— Asphyxia Neonatorum 57 Affections of the Umbilicus 58 Tetanus Neonatorum 59 Buhl's Disease ; Winckel's Disease 59 Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neonatorum . 60 Melcena Neonatorum 60 Icterus Neonatorum .... 60 Ophthalmia Neonatorum . 61 Cephalhcematoma Neonatorum, etc. 61NEW-BORN INFANT 52 See also Asphyxia (Treatment, In Neiv-born Children); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Predisposing Causes, Anatomical Peculiarities, in Nexv-horn Infants); Infant-Feeding ; Labour ; Nursery Hygiene ; Pregnancy, Pathology of [Intra-uterine Diseases of the Fcetus); Sclerema Neonatorum ; Teratology. Definition.—The term " new-born " is applied to the infant during the first month of his post- natal existence. There has been life already, during the ante-natal period—the life, however, has been of a semi-parasitic kind, dependent upon that of the mother; but after birth the life of the child may go on independently of that of the mother so long as there is some one to care for it and supply the wants that are peculiar to it. While the mother is passing through the puerperal period of life her infant is passing through the neonatal, and in both periods there are most interesting changes going on which are largely of the nature of readjustment of function—changes which leave their impress vipon the diseases of these epochs and necessitate special treatment and management. Anatomical Peculiarities.—The new-born in- fant is not the adult in miniature; the changes which occur during the passage from the in- fantile to the adult state are not simply increases in size of the body, its parts, and its organs. There is, it is true, an increase in size of many parts and viscera ; but it is not in proportion, and some organs which were relatively large in the infant are relatively small in the adult. There are, therefore, anatomical peculiarities in the new-born infant, and, in a phrase, these may be described as conditions resembling, on the one hand, the anatomy of the fcetus, and on the other that of the child and adult. The anatomy of the neonatus is a transitional anatomy. In the relative size of the various regions of the body the new-born resembles the foetus rather than the adult. As compared with the child or adult the infantile head is relatively large, and the infantile limbs are relatively small; further, the cranium is relatively larger than the face, and the upper limbs than the lower ; and both the thorax and the pelvis are relatively smaller than the abdomen. The vis- cera show the same peculiarity: the liver is relatively large, and, compared with the right, the left lobe is large out of the adult proportion ; the thymus gland, cerebrum, and the supra- renal capsules are disproportionately large, while the stomach and cerebellum are small; the body of the uterus is small, while the cervix and the vagina are large; and as regards the regions of the spinal column, it may be said that in the infant the cervical is nearly, if not quite, as long as the lumbar, while in the adult it is in the proportion of 2 to 3. In their relations to each other the parts and organs of the body of the infant also show peculiarities. The hyoid, for instance, lies opposite the axis vertebra instead of opposite the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra, as in the adult. The larynx also is about two vertebral bodies higher in the neck, and the bifurcation of the trachea is one vertebra higher than in the adult. The heart is situated more transversely in the thorax, and at a little higher level in relation to the spine ; the apex is farther to the left and higher in the infant, corresponding often with the nipple. With the establishment of respiration the lungs, which have been lying at the back of the thorax, come forwards, and the left one insinuates itself between the heart and the anterior chest-wall; the presence of the large thynms in front of the heart prevents the close approximation of the lungs to each other save in their upper portions. In the infant at birth the stomach lies entirely under cover of the left lobe of the liver, but as the digestive functions are established, it emerges gradually from under the hepatic border. The umbilicus at this time in life is situated nearly equally distant from the feet and the vertex, but a little nearer the feet; in later childhood it corresponds with the symphysis pubis. The relatively large size of the liver increases its relations with other abdominal oi'gans, and it comes, for instance, into contact with the surface of the spleen; the spleen also has a contact relation with the left adrenal. The relations of the intestines are often ill-defined at birth, and anomalies are met with ; but it is fairly common to find a loop of the sigmoid flexure in the pelvis in male infants. The urinary bladder is an abdominal organ in the infant, and between its anterior sui'face and the abdominal wall there is no intervening pouch of peritoneum. In the female, also, the greater part of the uterus and the tubes and ovaries lie above the plane of the pelvic brim. The form of several of the infantile organs exhibits peculiarities. The liver, for example, as has been shown by the frozen sectional method, possesses six surfaces—a superior, left inferior, anterior, posterior, right, and left; the left surface is due to the large size of the left lobe. The stomach has a relatively small fundus, and the lesser curvature forms a more acute angle than in the adult organ. The kidneys show traces of lobulation, a foetal character; and the suprarenal capsules have much more dis- tinctly, than in adult life, the pyramidal shape. There are yet other anatomical peculiarities which are found in the infant at birth. In the heart, for instance, the foramen ovale and the ductus arteriosus, which are open in the fcetus and at birth, close during the first month of life ; probably both are physiologically closed within a few minutes of birth, although they may be anatomically pervious for some weeks later. The same statement may be applied to the ductus venosus in the liver. In the cheek of53 NEW-BORN INFANT the new-born there is an encapsulated mass of fat, the so-called "sucking pad." The rectum is large, more vertically placed, and more nearly a straight portion of the intestine than in the adult. In the skeleton, also, there are numerous peculiarities due to the incomplete stage of ossification which has been reached. The cranial vault bones, for instance, have not yet united along the lines of the sutures, and at six points a considerable membranous interval intervenes between the adjacent bones; these membranous intervals are known as fontanelles, and are dis- tinguished as anterior (which is large, quad- rangular, and has four sutures running into it), posterior (which is much smaller, triangular, with three sutures running into it), and four less important lateral fontanelles. Some of the long bones only, as the femur, show centres of ossification in their epiphyses. The ramus of the lower jaw makes with the body of that bone a more oblique angle than in the child ; and the auditory meatus is imperfectly developed at birth. The segments of the sacrum and coccyx are not fused together into one bone in the new- born infant; and the spinal column has not yet any fixed curves. Physiological Peculiarities.—The physiology of the new-born infant, like its anatomy, is tran- sitional in its character: it resembles in many details the physiology of the child and adult, but it also shows evident traces of the functional peculiarities of the foetus. Birth is the more or less traumatic transition from an existence in the fluid medium of constant or nearly constant temperature, in the dark, and protected from external violence, into a life in an atmospheric medium of a temperature lower than that of the body, in the light, and with no natural pro- tection from injury. Birth, therefore, entails readjustment of function; and readjustment of function is a leading character of the physiology of the new-born infant. Further, neonatal physi- ology has peculiarities impressed upon it by the fact that during the first few days of life the infant is recovering from the effects of its passage through the maternal birth-canals, a process often truly traumatic. The circulation of the new-born, for instance, shows this re- adjustment. With the ligaturing of the cord the placental circulation stops and the pulmo- nary becomes more fully established, a change accompanied by the physiological closure of the ductus arteriosus, the foramen ovale, and the vessels connected with the umbilical circulation. The pulse-rate, which has been from 130 to 140 beats per minute in the foetal life, remains high, but not quite so high as before birth, varying from 120 to 140; the rate is little affected by posture. The arterial tension is said to be low, for the width of the aorta is greater in com- parison with the volume of the heart than in later infancy. It has often been stated that sphygmograms of the new-born infant's pulse simply consist of slightly undulating lines; but this statement does not always hold, for Dr. H. Oliphant Nicholson has taken tracings from infants less than a week old in which there was not only a sharp apex, but also distinct tidal and dicrotic wavelets. The pulse-rate is to the respiration rate as 3-|- or 4 :1. The com- position of the blood of the new-born also shows transitional characters. It contains a higher percentage of hgemogiobin ; in five infants ex- amined by Carstanjen it remained above 100° till after the twelfth day of life. It contains a large number of red blood corpuscles in the cubic millimetre (six to seven millions); this character holds for the first four or five days, as does also the presence of some nucleated red cells (till the third day, according to Carstanjen). It has a greater coagulability, and shows marked leuco- cytosis. The leucocytes are of several kinds : at first the polynucleated ones are most numer- ous ; after the first twenty-four hours the lymphocytes increase in number, and become equal to the polynucleated leucocytes about the sixth day; transitional forms are also specially mumerous between the sixth and ninth days ; eosinophilic cells are not markedly numerous. The pulmonary respiration of the new-born is not usually established fully till the infant has been expelled from the maternal passages and the cord tied and cut, and for some days after- wards the lungs are not completely expanded in every part. It is excited to begin partly by the venous condition of the blood due to the stoppage of the placental circulation and partly by cutaneous stimulation. It is chiefly ab- dominal in type, and has a rate of from 30 to 50 respirations per minute, but it has a teii- dency to be irregular in rate and variable in character. Although urine may be secreted in foetal life, and may even be expelled into the liquor amnii, usually it is not till after birth that it comes to be secreted with the regularity of a function and expelled periodically from the bladder. Micturition in the new-born infant is quite involuntary, and occurs from six to twenty times in the twenty-four hours. The urine is colourless, as may be learned from the fact that it leaves no stain on the diapers : it is odourless, has a low specific gravity, an acid reaction, and not infrequently contains albumin during the first few days of life. Uric acid is always present, but urea is absent or in small amount. In foetal life the sebaceous glands of the skin secrete freely, with the result that at birth the infant is covered with a greasy coat- ing, the vernix caseosa, which consists largely of sebum mixed with epidermic scales and lanugo hairs; after birth the sebaceous glands continue to be active, but the sudoriparous do not secrete much if at all for some time. A j fine desquamation of the cuticle takes place during the first week of neonatal life, and the I colour of the skin is often yellow (physiological54 NEW-BORN INFANT jaundice of the new-born). The mammary glands in both the male and the female infant are frequently active soon after birth, and in consequence a little milky fluid may he squeezed out. The temperature at birth is a little above that which is normal for the child and adult, being 99° F. ; and it remains at that level for the first week under healthy conditions; but it is well to remember the great tendency that exists in new-born, and especially in prema- turely born infants to chilling of the body. Rapid increase in size and weight is character- istic of the foetus in utero, and this chai'acter is retained by the new-born infant, but in less degree. In this respect also transition is to be noted. Weighing about seven and a half pounds (3000 grms.) at birth, the new-born loses about 200 gi-ms. during the first two days, regains its original birth-weight about the fifth day, and thereafter increases in weight at about the rate of 26 grms. a day for the remainder of the first month. This may be contrasted with the daily increase at the end of the first year, viz., from 5 to 10 grms. The length of the new-born is from 19|- to 20 inches (49 to 50 cms.), and during the first month this is added to to the extent of 3 inches (7'5 cms.); the whole body does not grow at an equal rate, the greatest rapidity being shown by the lower limbs. During intra- uterine existence the physiology of the nervous system almost entirely consists in the perform- ance of reflex actions by the spinal cord, the cerebral centres being largely quiescent; after birth the spinal cord continues to functionate, and the cerebrum and higher centres begin to awake to activity slowly. Voluntary move- ments do not occur in the first month of life ; the movements that are seen are either reflex or instinctive. The plantar reflex usually shows itself in extension of the toes ; when it takes the form of flexion it is commonly in infants whose birth has been instrumental or otherwise ab- normal, as has been demonstrated by Finizio. The patellai", like the plantar reflex, is almost constantly met with in the new-born ; but some others, and especially the cremasteric, are often absent. The special senses of sight, hearing, smell, and taste are in operation within a few days of birth, the sense of taste in all proba- bility being the first to be developed; by them the infant has perceptions or rather " recepts." The sense of touch is already present at birth. The activity of the digestive organs, like that of the respiratory organs, begins at birth, for it is improbable that any marked functioning of the buccal, gastric, or intestinal glands occurs in utero. Even at birth, and for some six or seven months later, the food is little altered in the mouth ; very little saliva is secreted, and only that coming from the parotids has a dia- static action. The gastric glands are, however, quite capable of fully digesting human milk, although there is some doubt as to the exact chemistry of the process; some digestion of starch can also be accomplished in the stomach of the new-born, but it is small in amount and not to be relied upon. The hepatic secretion of bile is established at birth, for the gall-bladder is often found distended in infants dying at or soon after their expulsion from the uterus; but the bile is poor in its characteristic constituents, with the exception of the bile pigments. The secretion of the pancreas in the new-born is effective in forming peptones and in emulsify- ing fat, but its action on starch is very limited. The new-born infant has normally from three to four stools daily; for three or four days the fseces consist of the greenish-black meconium made up of the intestinal contents of foetal life, and destitute at first of putrefactive products and of bacteria; thereafter the motions are pale yellow or orange in colour, have a soapy con- sistence, and are composed of digestive milk from which the nutritive constituents have been removed by absorption. Management of the New-boi-n Infant. — The hygiene of the new-born has peculiarities which depend upon the transitional state of its physi- ology, and upon the fact that the organism has just passed from an intra-uterine to an extra- uterine environment. There are two great governing principles, viz., to keep up the body heat, and to make no further call upon the organs in their imperfectly developed state than they can reply to. Immediately after birth the child is to be drawn from under the bed-clothes and turned upon the right side with the back towards the mother's genitals ; it will then usually begin to cry loudly, and attention may be turned to the ligation of the umbilical cord. The root of the cord should be first inspected to note that it is free from a loop of intestine which some- times is found protruding into it; then a sterilised ligature of elastic tape, or of thin silk threads (in the form of a skein) is applied to the cord, about two finger-breadths from the abdominal wall, and tied tightly; a second ligature of the same material is attached on the distal side of the first; and the cord is divided between the two by means of a pair of probe-pointed sharp-edged scissors which shall have been sterilised. Recently other methods of treating the umbilical cord have been recom- mended, but have not yet been widely adopted; amongst these are omphalotripsy, which con- sists in the compression of the root of the cord with strong forceps (omphalotribe), and the primary amputation method of Dickinson. The cut end shoidd be examined to see that there is no bleeding from the vessels, washed with some weak carbolic lotion, and dressed with wood wool or iodoform gauze. In the first place, however, the infant has to be bathed. For this purpose the nurse takes her place in front of an open fire with the child on her lap.55 NEW-BORN INFANT Che child she has taken from the medical at- tendant in a warm flannel wrapper, using care ,hat it be not allowed to fall through her hands )v reason of its slipperiness. The common )ractice of squeezing the breasts to break the )reast - strings must be absolutely forbidden, rhe eyes are first carefully washed, and if there las been a maternal vaginal discharge (gonor- •hoeal or otherwise) during pregnancy it will 3e necessary to instil into each conjunctival lac a drop or two of a 1 per cent solution of litrate of silver, or simply of boiled water or ;aline solution. Then the mouth is to be vashed out with clean water. The cleansing )f the head and body often takes some time on account of the adhesive vernix caseosa; it is )est removed by means of vaseline or a little slean lard ; it ought to be rubbed off' briskly, )eginning at the head and paying special at- .ention to the flexures of the neck and limbs, rhe infant is then put into a warm bath and ileansed with soap and water; thereafter it is .0 be dried lying in the nurse's lap, and it is iustomary to dust some powder, such as fuller's iarth, bismuth, or talc into the folds of the ;kin and around the orifices. Then the cord s wrapped round with antiseptic gauze, and in )rder to keep it in position a flannel binder is ipplied twice I'ound the abdomen and fixed by Pitching. The rest of the infant's clothing con- ;ists of a cambric shirt, a long flannel under- iress supported from the shoulders by tapes, md an overdress with long sleeves either of lannel or muslin ; there should be a diaper of varm towelling held in position by a flannel )inder, and the feet should be protected by vooUen socks, and the head by a shawl. The nfant will then in all probability fall asleep, i,nd should be placed in his crib or at any rate in L place of safety where he will not run the risk )f injury until the mother is ready to receive lim. It may be added that he ought to be jarefully inspected to see that he is not the lubject of any structural abnormalities. Feeding.—After the mother has had a sleep ;he infant ought to be put to the breast; this vill usually be about eight hours after labour. Che first milk or colostrum acts more as a )urgative than as a food for the child, and lelps to unload the intestine of the meconium. *^o other nourishment is generally required mtil the mammary glands begin to secrete the nilk, which will be about twenty-four hours ifter labour; the secretion will be fully estab- ished by the third day. Prior to the com- nencement of regular lactation the infant's Qouth may be washed out with a little boiled vater; there is no need to add to it, as is iustomary, some sugar. In the great majority if cases there is no necessity to supplement the nother's milk with any other food ; it contains 11 the constituents of a perfect food for the irganism at this time of life, and these con- stituents are in perfect combination amounts. At first the infant will be put to the breast with the mother in the horizontal posture, and about the end of the first week she will be able to nurse her child sitting up and leaning slightly forward. She will support the nipple with the index and middle fingers of her disengaged hand so as to control if necessary the flow of milk into the infant's mouth. One breast ought to be used at each lactation, and the breasts should be employed alternately. Regularity in nursing ought to be insisted on from the first, for then habits are easily formed, and much future discomfort may be avoided. During the first week the breast ought to be given every two hours between the hours of 5 A.M. and 11 p.m. ; if trained to it at the beginning, most infants will soon learn to sleep continuously, with possibly a changing of diapers once, from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. From the end of the first week to the end of the neonatal period the nursings should be at intervals of two and a half hours. The infant takes from one and a half to two ounces at each meal, and a total of twelve to sixteen ounces in the twenty-four hours. The breast should not be given simply for the purpose of stopping crying ; sometimes the infant cries from himger—then the cry is strong, and occurs after a period of time has elapsed since the last meal; but in many cases the crying is due to colic, and is accompanied by convulsive movements of the limbs, and then frequent nursing exaggerates the colic and stops the crying only for a few minutes. In order that the mother may have a sufficient supply of milk for her infant it will be necessary for her to take large quantities of milk herself along with strong animal soups and cocoa and gruel; she ought also to have abundant time for rest and sleep, and should be free from household and other worries. Alcohol is an unnecessary part of her diet, unless she have been in the habit of always taking it. The nipples should be carefully washed before and after each nursing. If the normal or maternal method of infant feeding be impossible (by reason of physical disability of the mother, or on account of serious illness, or because the child has been expelled from the uterus prematurely before the mother's mammary glands are prepared to functionate), then a wet-nurse must be employed, or artificial feeding resorted to. Theoretically the ivet-nursing or merceiiary method stands next in value to the normal or maternal, for the infant is being supplied with human milk, albeit the milk of another woman than the mother; but in actual practice there are many difficulties and inconveniencies which conspire to make the method one which is seldom employed. There is the matter of expense; the wet-nurse who is both healthy and of irreproachable morals is a rara avis; and house-56 NEW-BORN INFANT hold arrangements are apt to be seriously upset by the presence of any save a most exemplary wet-nurse. Still, in certain cases, as with a premature and weakly infant, and in some forms of infantile diarrhoea, wet-nursing may save the life of the child. Alcoholism and syphilis in the wet-nurse must be excluded, and she ought not to be the subject of tubercle or of epilepsy ; she should be neither pregnant nor menstruating; she should be between the years of twenty-five and thirty-five; and if possible she should be married, or if unmarried she ought not to have had more than one pregnancy. It may be determined roughly that her health is good and her milk in a satisfactory state by inspecting her own baby; if it be well nourished and free from disease, it may safely be concluded that she may be trusted with the care of another woman's infant. In most cases, however, if the new-born infant cannot be nursed by the mother, it has to be brought up artificially, i.e. bottle-fed. Although cow's milk does not approximate so closely to human milk in its composition as does the milk of the ass, it is yet found that practically it makes the best substitute for it. For the new- born infant it becomes a matter of the greatest importance that the milk of the cow be made as similar as possible in composition and in digestibility to human milk, and be as free from microbic and other impurities as is the fluid drawn from the mother's breast. In order to carry out these requirements the following preparation of it is necessary. In chemical composition cow's milk contains more nitro- genous material or albuminoids than does mothers milk; it is therefore customary in order to correct this to add water, an equal part, to bring down the excess of albuminoids. Cow's milk also contains less sugar and less fat than mother's, and the addition of water has still further reduced the proportion of these constituents, so that it will now be neces- sary to add cream and sugar (lactose or cane- sugar) to adjust the composition. Further, there is a physiological difference between cow's milk and human milk in that the casein of the former when acted upon by the gastric juice of the infant forms a much firmer and less digestible curd than does that of the latter; this difference is corrected, and the casein-curd is rendered loose and more flocculent by the addition of an alkali such as lime-water, or of a mucilaginous material such as barley-water. These various requirements are met satisfactorily in such a preparation as Meigs' cream mixture, which consists of cream 2 oz., milk 1 oz., lime- water 2 oz., and sugar-water 3 oz. The sugar- water contains 2 j oz. of milk-sugar in a pint of water. As prescribed above, the mixture will be sufficient for four meals for a new-born infant. There are, however, other difficulties in the way of suiting cow's milk to an infant's needs. There is, for instance, the prevention of the entrance of impurities into the milk on its way from the cow to the nursery, and after its arrival in the nursery. To begin with, the cow should be healthy, should at any rate not be tubercular; the attendants in the byre and dairy should be free from all infectious diseases such as scarlet fever and diphtheria; and all the vessels in which the milk is placed should be kept scrupulously clean. As it is found almost impossible in practice to be sure that all these conditions have been obtained, it has be- come a frequent practice to sterilise the milk and so render innocuous any germs of disease which may have gained access to it. This may be done in a rough and ready fashion by boiling the milk, but it is better to use one of the sterilisers, such as Soxhlet's or Arnold's, in which the milk in bottles, closed with cotton- wool plugs is subjected to the influence of steam for half an hour or three-quarters; it will thereafter keep for a long time, and, if kept in stoppered bottles, need only be heated up when required for use. With regard to the bottles in which the milk is given to the infant, the principles which guide us ought to be to obtain a plain flint glass boat-shaped bottle, without projections or irregularities such as would render it difficult of being kept clean, and to use in connection with it no long india- rubber tube, but a simple rubber teat which can be easily inverted for cleansing purposes. Wende has recently given an alarming bacterio- logical demonstration of the dangers which lurk in the long rubber tubes which used to l)e so frequently employed in connection with feeding bottles; and there can be no doubt that the whole apparatus used in infant feeding oiight to be as simple and as easily cleaned as possible. By the methods which have been detailed above it is usually possible to provide a satis- factory substitute for human milk, although it is probable, as has been pointed out by Bartley and others, that there are subtle chemical differences between the milk of the cow and that of the woman which cannot be perfectly adjusted. When, however, the infant to be fed is weakly or premature, then these im- adjusted differences make their influence felt, and persistent indigestion, gastric or intestinal, or both, is the result. Under such circum- stances peptonised cow's milk will sometimes be successful: 3 grs. of Benger's peptonising powder are to be added to 2 oz. of milk and 2 oz. of boiling water, the mixture is to be allowed to stand for ten minutes, and then ^ oz. of cream and a pinch of sugar are to be added. The various much-advertised infants' foods, containing starch and large quantities of sugar, are seldom, if ever, to be given to the new-born infant, although they find a sphere of usefulness in connection with children of more than six months. If all meansNEW-BORN INFANT 57 of feeding the infant artificially fail, and gastro- enteritis threaten life, the last resort will be wet-nursing. It ought to be added that the mixed method of feeding the new-born will often give better results than the artificial alone does. That is to say, when the mother is able to nurse partially, even if it be only three or four feed- ings in the twenty-four hours, the infant will have a better chance of thriving than if brought up entirely by hand. When the infant is about five days old the stump of the umbilical cord usually drops off; a granulating surface is left, which skins over and is retracted. The separation of the stump is due to mummification of the tissues and necrosis at the base. An infant should be batlied once a day in front of a warm fire, the water having a temperature of 92°, as deter- mined by a bath thermometer. Premature or weakly infants need only be sponged in the nurse's lap. In summer the infant may be taken into the open air when a fortnight old, being carried on the nurse's arm, and kept in the sun. He should sleep in a crib, and not in the bed with either the mother or the nurse. Pathology of the New-horn Infant. — Several of the diseases which affect the new-born have characters so distinctive that it has beeia con- cluded that they are different in nature and cause from the maladies of the adult; at any rate it has been thought that there is sufficient difference to justify the addition of the word " neonatorum " to the name of the affection, e.g. a;dema neonatorum, melsena neonatorum, etc. It is probable, however, that the causes of diseases are the same in the neonatal as in the other periods of life, and that the differences in their manifestations are due to the peculiarities of the anatomy and physiology of the epoch. The various readjustments of functions which are going on immediately after birth must modify pathological processes, and the impress of the traumatism of birth cannot but contribute to the formation of a special pathology of the new-born. It has also to be remembered that before birth morbid causes may have been in action, and that some of the peculiarities of neonatal diseases may be due to ante-natally developed conditions. Asphyxia neonatorum, apnoea neonatorum, still-birth, or apparent death of the new-born, is a condition of the infant at birth in which there is a stoppage of the functions of animal life, with absence of respiration, and absence, or rather weakness, of cardiac action. A still-born child is not necessarily a dead child, but the condition may pass into death. Two clinical varieties have been commonly recognised—the pale and the livid, or the anaemic and the con- gestive. In their pathology there is no great difference save in the condition of the cutaneous vessels, which in the former are empty and in the latter engorged with blood. Clinically there are other differences: in the pale form the mouth is open (the lower jaw having fallen), the mucous membranes are pale, the skin is cold, the eyes closed, the anus is relaxed (as are the limbs and the muscles everywhere), and the heart- beats are very feeble or inaudible ; in the con- gestive type the lips are swollen, the eyes are injected and protruding, the mucous membranes are congested, the skin is hot, the limbs are somewhat rigid, the umbilical cord is swollen, the reflexes are preserved, and the pulse is stronger than in the former variety. Asphyxia neonatorum may be due to a great number of causes : it may be due to prematurity and con- genital weakness of the infant, to interference with the intra-uterine circulation in the placenta (from separation or disease) or umbilical cord (knots, twists), to compression or other trau- matism during delivery, or to temporary pres- sure upon the cord leading to attempts at respiration while still in the mother's canals, and the consequent inspiration of mucus, meco- nium, etc., into the air-passages. It may also be produced by certain fostal diseases, such as ascites, which prevent the action of the dia- phragm. The prognosis is better in the livid than in the pale form. The treatment consists, in the first place, in an attempt to excite respira- tion by such ordinary means as the removal of mucus from the back of the mouth and nose, the slapping of the skin of the gluteal regions, and the placing of the infant in hot and cold water alternately. If these measures fail, it has been advised to allow some bleeding to take place from the cut end of the umbilical cord in asphyxia livida, and to aspirate some blood from the placenta to the infant by drawing the cord through the fingers in the direction of the umbilicus before ligaturing it in asphyxia pallida. If the apnoea still continue it will be necessary to have recourse to one or other of the methods of artificial respiration. Of these, the most generally employed at the present time is that of swinging the infant recommended by Schultze: the child is grasped by the operator with both hands, the thumbs resting against the thorax, an index finger in each axilla, the other fingers across the back, and the occiput supported by the balls of the thumbs; it is then suspended vertically feet downwards, with the face looking forwards, in which position the chest is opened, it is then swung upwards towards one of the operator's shoulders, when it is found that the infant's head is the lowest point, and that its body has fallen forwards towards the face, thus compressing the thorax and closing the chest. This procedure is repeated some thirty times a minute in order to imitate infantile respiration, and it very often succeeds in causing air to pass freely into and out of the lungs. It has been objected that in the performance of the swingingNEW-BORN INFANT 58 movements the clavicle of the infant may be broken and may wound the pleura, and cases have been reported in which this accident would seem to have occurred ; but with due care the mishap must be very rare. In other cases Marshall Hall's " ready method " of exciting respiration, or Sylvester's plan may be tried {vide article on " Respiration of the Apparently Drowned"). Howard's method is that in which the infant is placed upon the obstetrician's left arm, lying upon its back and with the head hanging slightly downwards ; the operator compresses the thorax and abdomen about twenty times a minute with his right hand, and in this way respiration may be initiated. Another method is to place the asphyxiated infant upon its back upon the palms of the operator's hands held out before him ; the palms are then approximated, and the breech and head of the child brought nearer together, and the chest compressed; and then the hands are again put in the position they originally occupied, and the chest opened up (Byrd's method). Laborde's procedure of rhythmic traction upon the tongue has lately been highly spoken of, more particularly in France; it consists in drawing out the tongue with a pair of forceps about twenty or thirty times a minute. Finally, it has been recom- mended to insufflate air into the lungs by means of a flexible catheter or special tracheal tube (Ribemont-Dessaignes) passed into the larynx. It must not be forgotten that so long as the infant's heart continues to beat there is a chance that resuscitation may be accomplished, and efforts towards this end ought therefoi'e to be continued; marvellous cases of restoration, even some hours after birth, have been put on record. It ought also to be borne in mind that it is necessary to keep the child warm during the efforts at resuscitation, and that even after they have been successful the infant will require watching for some hours. Affections of the Umhilicus.—In the new-boi'n infant the umbilicus is for some days a possible and, indeed, a common avenue of entrance for pathogenic germs, and in consequence it is a usual circumstance to find several of the diseases of the new-born localised in the umbilicus or in the immediately neighbouring parts. Further, recent observations by Audion have shown that the umbilicus itself may remain apparently healthy, and yet its vessels may be pervious, and germs pass through them to parts (e.(/. the heart) distant from the navel, and set up patho- 'logical processes there. So that for many reasons the disorders of the umbilicus are of great importance. Umhilical Ilmnorrh(uie. — Haemorrhage from the umbilicus may take place soon after the birth of the inf;uit; it is then from the stump of the cord, and is due either to slipping of the ligature or to tightness of the binder, and it is generally checked by loosening the binder and applying a new ligature to the cord. The more distinctive hsemorrhage, however, and the more dangerous, is that which occurs some days later at the time when the stump of the cord is separating, or just after it has separated ; this is true omphalorrhagia. It is more frequent in males than in females, and usually appears between the fifth and seventh days after birth. Its pathology is uncertain, but changes in the umbilical vessels have been described (arteritis, phlebitis), and in the blood a diplobacillus, staphylococci, and streptococci have been dis- covered ; it has been ascribed to hfemophilia, syphilis, and to sepsis. The first signs of the hsemorrhage are usually the soaking of the clothes with blood and the anaemic appearance of the infant. There may also be jaundice and purpuric spots. The blood oozes from the umbilical depression, and there may be several clots covering it. Many of the cases perish, and death may occur in three hours, but is more commonly delayed for two or three days. The treatment requires to be energetic in most cases: the umbilicus may be swabbed with styptics, such as perchloride of iron, but usually it will be necessary to apply a mass ligature to the umbilical tissues after having transfixed them with two needles. It has even been recommended that the abdomen be opened, and the umbilical vessels tied separately on the inside; in fact, all sorts of devices have been resorted to, so persistent has the bleeding been. Constitutional treatment, e.g. anti-syphilitic, must not be forgotten. Umbilical Infections.— At the time when the stump of the cord is separating, the umbilicus may become infected by the germs which are to be found in the neighbourhood, and through the lymphatics the infection may pass to any or all the adjacent structures. One of the least marked degrees of this infection is found in ulceration of the cicatrix left by the fall of the cord; the parts do not look unhealthy, but stains of blood and even of pus are to be seen on the binder, and on separating the margins of the innbilicus a small ulcer is discovered, from which the discharge is coming ; the condition requires washing with boric lotion and dusting with iodoform powder, for if left untreated it may lead on to a weakness of the parts and consequent hernia. In other cases the ulcera- tion has led on to the formation of a " fungus " or gramdation (umbilical "polypus") in the position of the cicatrix : this is a myxomatous growth of a pale reddish colour, rounded in shade, of the size of a pea or of a pin-head, which bleeds readily when handled, and which constantly throws off a watery or purulent secretion ; there may be some surrounding ex- coriation, and the little mass may require to be touched with lunar caustic and the um- bilicus treated antiseptically ; when large, the granuloma needs excision after ligature. Some-59 NEW-BORN INFANT times the inflammation spreads to the skin margin surrounding the umbiHcus (periumbili- cal lymphangitis); a superficial lymphangitis occurs with some redness, pain, and swelling of the part. The name omphalitis or umbilical phlegmon has been given to a deeper extension of the inflammation in the neighbourhood of the navel; in it the cellular tissue becomes infected and inflamed, there is considerable swelling, heat, and pain, constitutional symp- toms occasionally of great severity may super- vene, and there may be a still further extension of the infection (to umbilical vessels or peri- toneum). The treatment will take the form of giving free exit to pus, and dressing antisepti- 3ally. Erysipelas neonatorum usually has its origin in infection through the umbilicus. It is generally associated with puerperal fever in the mother, a fact which points to its strepto- joccic origin; and it is much less common now blian it was in the pre-antiseptic and pre-aseptic lays of midwifery practice, but when it occurs it is very fatal. The erysipelatous flush appears iirst in the hypogastric region, generally two or \hvee days after birth, and soon spreads to the genitals, and later to the thighs and more iistant parts. There is high fever (102° to 105° F.), the skin becomes dark red, glazed, xnd oedematous, but sometimes is so firm as lot to pit on pressui'e. Occasionally there are sresicles and even bullae. The pulse is rapid '150), the respirations shallow and quick; and ieath follows from exhaustion on the sixth or seventh day of the illness. The treatment will jonsist in the internal administration of tonics tinct. ferri perchloridi, quinine) and stimulants ; hypodermic injections of anti - streptococcic ierum may be tried, and the surface affected should be dressed with antiseptic vaseline. In ;he worst cases of umbilical affection the in- lammation may go on to widespread ulcera- 'ion, and even to gangrene of the pa rt; bvit such occurrences are now very rare. There is still mother group of cases in which the infection ind inflammation specially affect the umbilical ressels: in these instances the two arteries may DC involved {umbilical arteritis), or the umbilical vein may be the seat of purulent processes 'umbilical phlebitis); in arteritis umbilicalis ;he inflammation extends along the hypogastric irteries to the level of the bladder, and may ;ause peritonitis and changes in distant organs ; n phlebitis umbilicalis the portal vein is soon iffected, and jaundice results. It has been ihown that in such circumstances endarteritis md endophlebitis are not always secondary to oeriarteritis aud periphlebitis; they may occur IS primary conditions. Premature infants are ilways more liable to these umbilical infections, 'or in them the umbilical route of entrance does lot so perfectly close nor so quickly. Among the umbilical infections must now be ncluded tetanus neonatorum, fonnerly one of the most dreaded scourges of infantile life. It is due to the entrance of the tetanus bacillus (bacillus of Nicolaier), through the umbilicus from faulty or absent hygiene. It commonly begins to manifest itself by difficulty in swallow- ing and rigidity of the facial muscles between the fifth and ninth days after birth. Soon spasms occur which affect all the muscles. The temperature rises, the pulse becomes very rapid, and the action of the respiratory muscles is interfered with, death resulting from such in- terference or from exhaustion. It is a disease which has been very fatal, and in certain parts of the world it used to cause an enormous in- fantile mortality. Its real treatment, which is also the real treatment of all umbilical infec- tions, is prophylactic. If the cord be treated aseptically, or if, failing that, antiseptic dress- ings be afterwards applied to it, the disease may be practically abolished. Of the good effect of such treatment a brilliant example was furnished a few years ago in the island of St. Kilda; in that outlying member of the Hebrides the adoption of surgical cleanness and the use of iodoform dressing for tlie cord practically got rid of tetanus and saved many lives. When the disease has actually set in treatment by chloral hydrate, opium, and calomel has not proved of any great benefit; rectal feeding will be required. Buhl's disease, or acute fatty degeneration of the new-born, is a curious neonatal condition which may be due to an infection, but not necessarily to one entering by the umbilical avenue. It is characterised pathologically by parenchymatous inflammation and fatty degeneration and haem- orrhages in the heart, liver, and kidneys; hsemorrhagic foci are also found in other organs. There is cyanosis, difficulty in resuscitation at birth, jaundice later, and generally haemorrhage from the mouth, umbilical wound, etc., before the case terminates, as it usually does, in death from collapse. Winckel's disease, to which the name of hcemoglobinuria neonatorum, bronzed hcematm-ic disease of the new-born, renxil tubal hwmatia, and pernicious icteric cyanosis have been given, in certain characters resembles Buhl's disease. The names suggest several of the prominent symptoms and pathological appeai'- ances. The disease begins to show itself two or three days after birth. Both jaundice and cyanosis are present, and the result is a very deep icteric tinge, which has been described as "bronzed." The cyanosis is best marked in the limbs. Soon there is haematuria, the urine having a coffee - coloured appearance ; some observers, however, have found indican and not haemoglobin or haematin in the urine. There may also be diarrhoea, the temperature falls, and there is usually death in convulsions, and from collapse in from two to three days. Histologically changes have been found in the composition of the blood and in the renal60 NEW-BORN INFANT tubules; in the latter there is a blackish mass made up of degenerated blood corpuscles, some unaltered red cells, and granular material. Microbes have also been described in the tubules. The pathogenesis of the disorder is not understood; it is probably an infection of the blood or of the kidney. No treatment has yet had any success. Of Winckel's 23 cases only 4 recovered. Dermatitis exfoliativa neonatoru7n, or Ritter's disease, or keratolysis neonatorum, is a morbid condition, in which the most evident clinical feature is excessive and general desquamation of the cuticle. It is rarely met with before the end of the first week of life, and is common in the second week. It begins suddenly, and four stages have been enumerated, viz. : (1) A stage of erythema and exudation; (2) a stage of exfoliation and drying; (3) one of reintegration of the epidermis; and (4) one of sequelae, e.g. boils. Often the whole process is completed without any severe constitutional symptoms; in other instances, however, there may be diarrhoea and pneumonia, and the disease may be followed by a marasmic condition. It was regarded by Ritter as a pyagmic manifestation; other observers have looked upon it as at least pemphigoid, if not an actual form of pemphigus ; and yet others have considered it to be a der- matitis due to some external influence. It is probably related in some way to the physio- logical desquamation of the cuticle of the new- born, of which it appears to be an exaggeration. A fungus with long and thin mycelia has been found in some instances. It has about a 50 per cent mortality ; and the treatment so far has been entirely symptomatic, consisting in the protection of the desquamating surfaces, the administration of tonics, and the observance of good hygiene. Melwna neonatorum is rather a symptom of several diseases than a separate morbid entity. Gastro-intestinal hgemorrhage in the new-born, whatever may be its cause, usually shows itself in the discharge of blood from the bowel, more rarely in the form of htematemesis. It may occur either in the first three or four days of life, or in the beginning or middle of the second week. It is soon accompanied by the signs of marked anjemia, and icterus is a frequent symptom. A Hpurioas form is due to the swallowing of blood which has come from the mother's nipple in lactation. The true form has a mortality of from 35 to 60 per cent, and before death there is great coldness of the body, and convulsions often supervene. Its duration is from one to five days. It is due generally to ulceration in the mucous membrane of the duodenum or stomach, or to congestion of these parts without ulceration. Many theories have been advanced to explain the pathogenesis of gastro-intestinal hemorrhages, according to some of which they are produced by pressure on the body of the foetus during labour ; it has recently been suggested that they are due to lesions of the central nervous system. A streptococcic origin has also been ascribed. The treatment consists in the maintenance of the body-heat, and in the administration of two or three minims of liquor ferri perchloridi every two hours. There can be no doubt that in some cases melsena neonatorum, like omphalor- rhagia, is simply a symptom of haemophilia, or of infantile syphilis ; the treatment appropriate to these conditions will then be indicated. Icterus 7ieonatorum, or jaundice of the new- born, may be divided into physiological or idiopathic icterus and symptomatic icterus. To these may be added the jaundice of Winckel's disease, which has already been described, and need not be again referred to. Idiopathic jaundice is characterised by the yellowish coloration of the skin which appears a few days after birth, persists for a few days, does not commonly spread to the sclerotic, and dis- appears without causing much, if any, systemic disturbance. It is comparatively common, hence the name physiological sometimes given to it. With regard to its etiology and patho- genesis the most diverse views have been ad- vanced ; it has been ascribed to retention of the meconium, to late ligature of the cord, to chloroform administered to the mother in labour, to congenital debility and prematurity; it has been looked upon as due to changes in the blood, such as the destruction of red corpuscles (hajmatogenous theory), or to alterations in the liver, such as epithelial blocking of the bile- ducts, and persistence of the ductus venosus (hepatogenous theory). Manifestly thei'e is room for many further observations on this subject, but probably it will be found to be associated with the readjustment changes in the structure of tlie blood, and in the action of the liver, which occur in neonatal life. Fortu- nately the jaundice rarely causes anxiety, and usually yields to a dose of castor oil. Symp- tomatic icterus, as the name indicates, is the manifestation of several pathological conditions, which may affect the new-born; but in them all there is an obstacle to the passage of bile from the liver. The most serious cases are those in which there is a congenital obliteration of the bile-ducts due to malformation or to foetal peritonitis; in them the jaundice is soon very intense, the stools are colourless, the abdomen distended, and vomiting frequent. In other cases the jaundice is the result of septic infection of the umbilicus which leads to peri- lobular cirrhosis of the liver (possibly Buhl's disease may be of this nature) ; in other in- stances the hepatic lesion is caused by syphilis of the new-born and tlien mercurial treatment may be successful in cui'ing the icteric state. In some very rare observations jaundice of the new-born has been found to have been causedNEW-BORN INFANT 61 )y biliary calculi, which must necessarily have ixisted in intra-uterine life. Ophthalmia neonatorum, like several other naladies of the new-born, is the result of in- ection ; in this case the infection is gonorrhoeal, akes place during labour (intra-natal), and ifFects the conjunctival sacs instead of the um- bilicus. It has the characters of a purulent con- unctivitis, and is generally caused by vaginal secretion containing the gonococcus entering ;he infant's eyes during the progress of the lead through the maternal passages. It used ,0 be very common in maternity hospitals, and ts after-effects were often most disastrous— jorneal ulceration, prolapse of the iris, staphy- oma, etc. following and producing blindness, [t may be prevented, and practically abolished, IS was shown by Crede in 1880. Into the eyes )f every infant born to a mother suffering from X vaginal discharge, it is well to drop one or two ninims of a 2 per cent solution (10 grs. to 1 )z.) of nitrate of silver; or, as has been demon- strated lately, simply to wash the eyes carefully A^ith boiled water, may be sufficient to prevent :he infection. When, however, the conjunc- tivitis has commenced, it will be necessary to oaint the lids with the nitrate of silver solution Dr with protargol, and to anoint their edges .vith zinc ointment. If one eye only be affected, }he infant should be kept lying on the affected dde in order to try to save the other eye from nfection with the discharge. Pemphigus neonatorum is usually syphilitic in lature (vide article on "Syphilis"); rarely simple or benign pemphigus is met with in the lew-born. It is characterised by the appearance X few days after birth of bullae, usually discrete, )n the trunk of the infant: they contain at first jlear fluid, which afterwards becomes turbid ivhen the bullae burst and dry up. In this form, as distinguished from syphilitic pem- phigus, the soles and palms are commonly free From bullfe. The general health is not much affected, and the duration of the illness is about a, week. It used to be common in maternity hospitals, and is infectious in its nature. The treatment is the protection of the affected skin Prom injury and cold, and the internal adminis- tration of quinine. Sclerema neonatorum is a rare disease of the Qew-born, characterised by induration of the subcvitaneous tissue, little amenable to treat- ment. It has by some been ascribed to solidifi- sation of the panniculus adiposus by cold in infants in a state of collapse; but it is more probably due to the permeation of the subcu- taneous adipose tissue layer, with numerous bands of connective tissue forming a network. Possibly the primary pathogenetic factor is a lesion of the trophic nervous centres. The child is usually atrophic, and the skin, first of the limbs and later of the whole body, has a tiard and cold feeling; there is even some rigidity of the parts ; the temperature falls very rapidly; and the infant dies with or without such complications as pneumonia, diarrhoea, and haemorrhages. (Edema neonatorum is possibly in some cases a stage in the develop- ment of sclerema ; in others it is the symptom of several maladies, such as nephritis, and cardiac and pulmonary disease in the new-born. Both sclerema and oedema neonatorum are very in- tractable. The subject should be put in the incubator; the skin may be massaged, and hydrargyrum cum creta may be given internally. The morbid conditions of the new-born which remain to be described have most of them been ascribed to the traumatism of labour, although into some of them the element of infection has been shown to enter. Cephalhematoma neonatorum. —Occasionally (once in five hundred cases of labour) a swelling forms on the head of the new-born infant, which is obviously more than the caput succedaneum of parturition. The caput of labour is simply an effusion of serum, or of serum and blood, into the tissues of the scalp over that part of the head which has presented; the true cephal- hsematoma, or, as it is sometimes called, the subpericranial variety, consists in the pouring- out of blood between the pericranium and the vmderlying bone, especially in the neighbour- hood of the postero-superior angle of the parietal bone (right or left). It has been ascribed to rupture of small blood-vessels crossing the fissures in the margins of the parietal and occipital bones, which are often seen along the line of the lambdoidal suture near the posterior fontanelle. The swelling, which varies in size from a small nut to an orange, is firm and tense, has a fluctuating centre, and a hard rim or margin due to a deposit of new bone round the circumference, and it usually appears soon after birth, and absorbs slowly, occupying as long as two or three months in some cases. It seldom suppurates, and it has been considered best to leave it alone, simply protecting it from injury, and applying evaporating lotions ; possibly aseptic surgery may yet find it better to open it at once and evacuate the blood, but this more radical method of treatment has not become customary. Facial paralysis, when it occurs in the new- born, is usually unilateral, and is caused by the pressure of one of the blades of the forceps upon the seventh nerve at its point of exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, more rarely by pressure of the maternal bony passages upon the same structure. It is therefore generally met with in infants whose birth has been instrumental or laborious. It can be recognised when the infant is crying or suckling ; the wrinkles on the affected side are obliterated, and those on the sound side in comparison seem exaggerated ; the mouth also is drawn to the sound side. The eye on the affected side cannot be closedNEW-BORN INFANT 62 (lagophthalmia). The paralysis is usually re- covered from, although several weeks may elapse; but there is a central form of the affection, when the eye can usually be closed, in which the prognosis is not so good. Massage and electricity may be used. Hoeniatorna of the sterno-mastoid muscle is a swelling in the muscle caused by an efifusion of blood into its substance followed by myo- sitis, and possibly accompanied by infection (Kader). The condition is often discovered quite accidentally, and is usually unilateral; but it has an importance, for it may be the origin of one of the forms of congenital torticollis. Massage and inunctions of unguentum potassii iodidi may be employed to aid absorption. Mastitis neonatorum is an inflammatory swell- ing of the mammary gland in the new-born, due to injudicious handling by the mother or nurse, associated with microbic infection of the gland tissue. It will cease to occur when it is generally recognised that there is no need to squeeze out from the breasts the milky fluid which is found in them in the neonatal period of life. The mastitis may be checked at the beginning by firm bandaging of the breast; when, however, pus has formed, it must of course be evacuated as soon as possible. The new- born infant may be born with other forms of injury than those mentioned above; it may show contusions and wounds due to instrumental interference, and it may be the subject of various fractures and dislocations produced during version, etc. Most of these are quickly recovered from if they are recognised at once and appropriately treated. Spoon-shaped de- pressions of the cranial bones may require to be elevated by pneumatic suction or the trephine, or simply by antero-posterior compression of the head. Newquay. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Newton's Ring^S. — The concentric rings of colour produced when a cover-glass comes in contact with the underlying slide; they are due to chromatic aberration, and indicate true contact between the apposed surfaces. If they are not seen, the slide should be rejected for purposes of blood counts. New York State. See Balneology {America, Sulphuretted Waters). New Zealand. See Balneology (Meiv Zealand); Therapeutics, Health Resorts (^Australia and New Zealand). Nexus. — A link or interlacement, such as the nexus nervorum opticorum (the optic chiasma). Nice. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Nickar Nuts.—Bonduc seeds {JBondu- cellce Senmm), obtained from a tropical plant {CcBsalpina bonducella) and used as a bitter tonic and in malaria; they contain a bitter principle, bonducin Nickel Salts.—Some of the salts of the metallic element nickel (Ni; atomic weight, 58'3) have been used in medicine: the sulphate (NiSO^) and the chloride (NiClj) as tonics, and the bromide (NiBr,) in epilepsy. The salicylate and the phosphate have also been employed. Nickle'S Test.—A means of distinguish- ing cane-sugar from glucose, depending upon the fact that the former when heated with the tetrachloride of carbon to a temperature of 100° C. turns black, while the latter is not so affected. NiCOl'S Prism.—The prism of Iceland- spar invented by William Nicol of Edinburgh (1768-1851) for polarising light; it is made by taking a crystal of the spar and cutting it obliquely into two wedges, and then cementing them together with Canada balsam. Nicotian in. See Tabaci Folia. Nicotine. AS'ee Tabaci Folia ; Alkaloids (Nicotina); Toxicology [Tobacco). Nicotinism.—The morbid results of the prolonged use of tobacco; chronic tobacco poisoning. See Tabaci Folia; Toxicology [Tobacco). Nictitating: Membrane. —The third or inner eyelid present in some animals for the purpose of protecting the eyeball from dust (Lat. nictare, to wink), and sometimes present as a rudiment in the human subject (plica semilunaris conjunctivae). Nictitating: Spasm.—Clonic spasm of the eyelids. Nictitation. — The action of winking (Lat. nictare, to wink). See Nictitating Spasm. Nidus.—Literally, a "nest"; hence a place of origin or development or a source. Niemeyer's Pill. —A pill containing quinine (1 grain), digitalis (^ grain), and opiiun {\ grain); it is used to check the cough and night-sweats in pulmonary phthisis. Nig^htblain. — A chilblain. See Ery- thema {Erythema Pernio). Nig^ht-Blindness. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Night-Blindness); Conjunc- tiva, Diseases of {Xerosis Conjunctivoe); Re- tina AND Optic Nerve {Retinitis Pigmentosa). Nig^htmare.—A dream in which there is a sense of impending disaster accompanied by63 NIGHTMARE the sensation of suffocation or of falling through space. See Hysteria {Infantile); Night Terrors. Nig'htsha.de. See Belladonna. Nig'ht-Swea.tS. See Lungs, Tubercu- losis OF {Symptoms). Nig'ht Terrors (Payor Nocturnus). See also Mental Deficiency {Primarily Neu- rotic Type); Rheumatism in Children {Ner- vous Affections); Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Dreams). — Upon few, if any, subjects in medicine have such widely divergent opinions been expressed by accepted authorities as upon that of night terrors. And this diversity of opinion attaches not only to the etiology of the complaint and the other disorders with which it is associated, but also to the importance with which it is to be viewed in regard to the present and future states of the sufferers from it. As a proof of this the following opinions may be quoted :— Eustace Smith ascribes night terrors to di- gestive troubles, but lately has laid stress upon adenoids and other naso-pharyngeal disorders as factors in their causation. Warrington Haward attributes them to enlarged tonsils. Ringer considers them as arising from indigestion. Charles West agrees with this, although he says he has known serious brain trouble arising from them. Goodhart thinks them allied to somnambulism and nocturnal incontinence of urine. Moizard, Bouchet, Hesse, Soltmann, Silbermann, H. C. Wood, and others link them with epilepsy. Angel Money, too, calls them a form of cortical epilepsy. Donkin mentions them amongst the emotional and other nerve disturbances which are common in rheumatic children. He states that night terrors, espe- cially when frequent and accompanied by hallucinations, are often co-existent with and indicative of epilepsy; and further says, in his chapter on " Hysteria," that night terrors, with or without definite hallucinations described by the patient, are very common in hysterical children, but that they also occur occasionally in almost any child as the result of undue excitement and various kinds of nervous disturbance. In contrast to Donkin, Henoch says he lias seldom seen them in connection with either hysteria or epilepsy. Graham Little has found them most frequentlj'^ in rheumatic children suffering from morbus cordis. The examples given sufficiently testify to the strange diversity of opinion on the question of night terrors. They also make it manifest that it is beyond the bounds of possibility that these writers could all have had the same disorder under consideration at the times at which they wrote. The present writer has endeavoured to show that there are two widely differing dis- orders in which the expression of terror has been associated with disturbance of sleep, and that it has been a non-discrimination between these two disorders that has led to this inconsistency amongst the various authors on the subject. Of these two disorders, the one is comparatively rare, and due to central brain disturbance; the other is extremely common, reflex in nature, and arises from digestive troubles or partial asphyxia. It will be well to restrict the name of " night terrors " to the first disorder, which is of importance, as that name has been deemed worthy of a permanent place in medical nomen- clature ; in the second, which is of only trivial consequence, an appropriate title is that of " nightmare," since it has already been widely adopted by the laity for the complaint. There are several points of distinction between the two disorders, a cardinal one being that in night terrors the patient sees visions, in night- mare he merely dreams dreams. The other points of distinction can be briefly summarised as follows :— Night Terrors.—In this there is usually a neurotic family history, and not very infre- quently the patient himself has been the subject of convulsions or other nervous disorder. Boys are slightly more liable to the complaint than girls. The attacks are most common between the ages of two years and eight, and they seldom persist after the twelfth year. The attack com- mences suddenly, in the midst of apparently the soundest sleep, and the first indication is usually a piercing shriek. On being attended to, the child is found seemingly wide awake, and protesting against the presence of some imagin- ary person or thing which he imagines is in the room with him. The nature of the vision is usually a terrifying one, such as a negro or a black statue ; but in many cases, as in the aura of epilepsy, red plays a prominent part, and soldiers, blood, and fire are the objects com- plained of. Whatever be the nature of the vision, it is usually repeated in the same features in each attack, no matter how long the intervals between them. There is very seldom more than one attack in a night. In extremely ex- ceptional instances the vision is a pleasing one, or the hallucination may be one of hearing and not of sight. During the whole of the attack the patient is hardly, if at all, conscious of his surroundings, and before even vigorous attempts to render him so succeed, he sinks into a pro- found sleep. In the morning he has generally no recollection of anything unusual having happened during the night. Care will have to be exercised on this point, as young children are apt to appropriate as their personal experi- ence and knowledge any matters concerning themselves which may be mentioned in their hearing. Nightmare.—In this there is usually nothing special in the family history. A large per- centage of the patients are the subjects of adenoids or enlarged tonsils. In other cases itNIGHT TERRORS 64 will be found that the bedroom is imperfectly ventilated, or that the patient suffers from digestive troubles, or has eaten an inappropriate meal on the evening of the attack. Although most common in childhood, the complaint is by no means limited to that age, and many adults know by experience the evil results of indiscre- tion in diet shortly before sleeping. Sleep is disturbed almost from the outset, and the attack is merely the culmination of a state of only partial rest disturbed by " bad dreams." As in night terrors, the patient usually awakes with a scream. He is found in a state of vague terror, and if he complain of definite objects, they had come upon him in his sleep, and are not visible to him at the present. Although perhaps greatly terrified, he is fully conscious of his surroundings and can be soothed into quietness, but it may be long before he is wooed to sleep, owing to his dread of something happening to him in that state. The objects of terror, if defined at all, are very commonly objects or persons that have frightened him in his waking moments. These objects may vary in each attack, and this may be the case when more than one attack occurs in a night. In the morning, if old enough, he has a very perfect recollection of the occurrences of the night before. Closely allied to night terrors is a rare com- plaint in which a child, apparently in the deepest sleep, suddenly sits up in bed and begins to talk. The words are generally coherent enough, and may be addressed to some one present, or even to a doll placed in its arms. Careful ob- servation, however, proves that the child is only partially, if at all, conscious of its surroundings. The stream of eloquence is generally rapid and incessant, and is only broken by the child abruptly returning into a deep sleep. In the morning the child has no recollection of the occurrences of the previous night. Allied also to night terroi-s, but perhaps more closely to epilepsy, is the condition known as " daymare," in which the patient, not necessarily a child, sees visions in the day-time when seemingly awake. For an interesting account of some cases of this last, reference may be made to a paper by D. G. F. Still. Diagnosis.—This mainly rests in distinguishing between attacks of night terrors and those of nightmare, the chief indications for this having been already given. In an able article on night terrors Dr. Leonard Guthrie takes exception to tiiese points of distinction, on the ground that they are too subtle for practical purposes. It may be claimed, however, that they are no more vague or indecisive than those used in deciding between such complaints as epilepsy and hysteria. It is not to be expected that all the points of distinction between the two complaints should be present in every case ; and even after the utmost care has been exercised, there still remain a minority of cases in which uncertainty must exist as to which class they should be placed in, that of night terrors or that of nightmare. Prognosis.—There is no element of danger in the attacks themselves. Their strong resem- blance, however, to some of the phases of epilepsy should engender caution in pronouncing as to the future of the subjects of night terrors. In rare instances the two complaints are associated in the same subject. More commonly there is an interval, of greater or less duration, between the supervention of the one complaint upon the other. But epilepsy is far from the only, and perhaps not even the most frequent, sequel of night terrors. Other nervous dis- orders, such as migraine, chorea, hysteria, asthma, somjiambulism, somniloquence, etc., play as important a part in this direction as epilepsy. Occasionally, too, night terrors is followed by some form of insanity. In fact, probably few of the subjects of night terrors pass through life without incurring some other form of nervous disturbance ; although, fortunately, the mani- festations of this last may be so slight or trivial as only to be revealed by the most careful and searching inquiry and examination. Having regard to this, night terrors, although of no great importance in themselves, should be re- garded as danger-signals, and as constituting a warning to the possible advent of other neuroses in the near or distant future. Treatment.—If the attacks be frequent, a dose of potassium bromide, suitable for the age, can be given shortly before bedtime. Except in the case of frequency, however, a course of bromide is certainly undesirable. Any con- ditions that experience may prove to act as exciting causes for the attacks should be studiously avoided. The only effective treat- ment is the endeavour to prevent, in the train- ing and education of the patient, any undue stress being thrown upon the nervous system. For this purpose a total avoidance of all ex- citement, and a careful watch over the effects of study, are all essential. Lapse of time by itself will generally bring about a cessation of the night attacks, and there is reasonable hope that proper care in the training of the child may prevent the onset of sequelae of any importance. Nigfrismus. See Melasma. Nikiforoff's Method.—A method of fixing blood films by immersing them in ether, in absolute alcohol, or in a mixture of equal parts of ether and alcohol, for from five to fifteen minutes. Nimbus. See Meteorology (Cloiids, Varieties). Ninth Nerve. See Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve; Phy.siology, Neuro-muscular Mechan- ism {Medulla Oblongata, Cranial Nerves).NIPPLE-LINE 65 Nipple-Line.—An imaginary line drawn from above downwards on the chest-wall, pass- ing through the nipple; it is used as a means of locating the apex beat, etc. Nipples. See Mammary Gland, Diseases OP {Affections of the Nipple and Areola) ; Puer- PERiuM, Pathology of (Affections of Breasts and Nipples). Nirvanine.—A local anaesthetic used in the same way as cocaine; it is chemically the hydrochloride of the methyl ester of diethyl- glycocoll paramido-ortho-oxybenzoic acid. Nissl's Bodies or Granules.— Granules formed of a material lying in the meshes of the protoplasm of a nerve-cell, which stain deeply with basic stains. See Physiology, Tissues (Nerve, Structure). Nissl's Degeneration.—The change which occurs in a nerve-cell when the axon is cut, consisting in displacement of the nucleus and decrease in the chromatin which it contains. See Physiology, Tissues (Nerve, Physiology, Function of the Cell). NiSUS.—An effort or impulse (Lat. niti, to strive), such as the impulse towards reproduc- tion or development (nisus germinativus). Nithsdaie Neck. See Thyroid, Gland, Medical (Goitre); Thyroid Gland, Surgery of (Goitre). Nitrates. See Water (Chemical Exami- nation). Nitric Acid. See also ffisoPHAGUS (In- flammation. Traumatic); Toxicology (Corrosives, Nitric Acid). — HNO3. A colourless fuming liquid with powerful caustic properties. Pre- parations—1. Acidum Nitricum Dilutum. Dose —-5 - 20 m. 2. Acidum Nitrohydrochloricum Dilutum ; Nitromuriatic Acid. Bose—5-20 m. Externally, strong nitric acid is used as a caustic for warts, condylomata, chancres, and chancroids. The surrounding tissues should be protected by means of an ointment. It has been recommended that hsemorrhoids should be touched with it so as to cause cicatrisation and diminution in size. In dilute solution it has been used as an astringent and stimulant application to indolent ulcers. Internally, dilute nitric acid should be administered through a glass tube, as it destroys the teeth. It is em- ployed, usually in the form of nitromuriatic acid, as a gastric tonic and biliary stimulant. It should be given before food in cases of in- creased secretion of hydrochloric acid, and after food when the secretion is deficient. It is frequently efficient in the green diarrhoea of children. Nitrification.—The conversion of the nitrogen of ammonia and of organic compounds VOL. VII into nitrous and nitric acids, as happens in fermentation (see Micro-Organisms, Bacteria, Saprophytic), and in the soil in bacteriolysis (Sewage and Drainage, Sewage Disposal). Nitrite of Amyl. See Nitrites; Angina Pectoris (Treatment); Convulsions, Infantile (Treatment, In the Attack). Nitrites. See also Angina Pectoris (Treatment); Antispasmodics ; Asthma (Treat- ment) ; Trades, Dangerous (Explosives).—The nitrite group of drugs includes Amyl Nitrite, Nitroglycerin, Sodium Nitrite, Potassium Nitrite, Erythrol Tetranitrate, Ethyl Nitrite, and Spiritus jEtheris Nitrosi. These substances all possess the actions characteristic of the nitrites, but they differ considerably in the strength, rapidity, and duration of their effects. They produce marked dilatation of the peripheral blood-vessels and lowering of the blood tension with increased rapidity of the heart's action, and have a depres- sant effect on the motor side of the spinal cord. Their use is indicated wherever a lowering of the blood tension is required, the particular drug selected depending on whether a moderate or a powerful action is necessary, and whether the effect must be immediate and transient or of more gradual development and more per- sistent.—Amyl Nitrite is a very volatile liquid of a pale yellow colour, given in doses of 2-5 m. usually by inhalation from a handkerchief in which a glass capsule containing the drug has been crushed. It may also be dropped on sugar and given by the mouth. Its use is indicated in all forms of spasmodic cardiac pain whether due to true angina pectoris, to thoracic aneurysm, or to an unknown cause. The relief afforded is generally attributed to the lowering of peri- pheral blood tension; but there is considerable doubt as to whether its action is really of this nature, for it may completely fail in cases in which there is a high arterial tension, and may have a prompt beneficial effect when no con- traction of the vessels exists. It is recommended in various forms of syncope, including that which occurs during chloroform aneesthesia. It has been recommended in eclampsia and in status epilepticus, and is said to prevent the onset of an epileptic seizure if inhaled as soon as the aura is felt. It has also been used with success in migraine, asthma, laryngismus stridulus, tetanus, and strychnine poisoning. In some forms of dysmenorrhoea and in the hot flushes associated with the menopause, it has been found to be of great service. It has recently been widely employed with striking results in the treatment of htemoptysis, whether due to pulmonary or cardiac disease.—Nitroglycerin is a colourless, oily liquid of a highly explosive nature. It is given in doses of o-g^cr'To S'"-' freely diluted. Preparations — 1. Liquor Tri- nitrini. Dose—1-2 m. 2. Tabellje Trinitrini, each 566 NITRITES containing gr. of nitroglycerin. Trinitrin is similar in action to amyl nitrite, but its effects are more persistent and slower in development. It is given in cases of heart disease associated with attacks of pain with the object of warding off the seizures. It is also of value in chronic kidney disease with high arterial tension, and in most of the conditions to which amyl nitrite is applicable.—Sodium Nitrite {Dose—1-2 grs.) and Potassium Nitrite {Dose 3-5 grs.; N.O.) are suitable for the same cases as nitroglycerin.— Erythrol Tetranitratb (Dose—^-1 gr.) is in- soluble, and is best given in tablet. It is preferred by some physicians because its action lasts longer than that of the other nitrites.— Liquor Ethyl Nitritis is given in doses of 20-60 m. Its action is that of the nitrites.— Spiritus ^Ethbris Nitrosi (sweet spirits of nitre) is a solution in alcohol of several sub- stances, including ethyl nitrite. It has a weak nitrite action. Dose—60-90 m. for a single dose; 20-40 m. if repeated. It is given as a mild diaphoretic and antipyretic in febrile attacks, and as a diuretic in chronic kidney disease. It is a frequent ingredient of prescrip- tions for heart disease with oedema, both for its diuretic effect and to guard the action of cardiac tonics. Nitro-.—In compound words nitro- as a prefix signifies relating to nitrogen, to the radicle NOg, or to the radicle NO {nitrosyl). N itrO-Ba.Cteria,. — Micro-organisms which convert ammonia into nitric and nitrous acid, e.g. in the process of nitrification in the soil. Nitrobenzoie or Nitrobenzene. —An intermediate product in the manufacture of aniline oil, known as oil of mirbane (artifi- cial oil of bitter almonds); it is a yellow oily liquid, has the formula of CgHjNOo, is obtained by mixing fuming nitric acid with benzene in a vessel kept cool by immersion in water, and may, if taken in quantity, prove fatal as a poison (nitrobenzolism). See Toxicology (Organic Poisons, Nitrobenzene); Trades, Dan- gerous {Aniline and Dinitrobenzene). Nitrocellulose or Nitrocellulin. See Pyroxylinum. NitrOg^en.—An inert, non-metallic ele- ment (symbol, N ; atomic weight, 14) which combines with hydrogen to form ammonia, with oxygen to form nitrous and nitric acid and other oxides, and with chlorine and bromine to form explosive compounds. See Air, Examination of {Ammonia) ; Mineral Waters {Simple Thermal Waters) ; Temperature {Fever, Increase in Nitrogen Excretion) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Nitrogeyious Constituents). Nitrog'luCOSe.—A substance prepared by the action of nitric and sulphuric acid on glucose; it has been used as a stimulant in doses of ;| to 1 minim of a 5 per cent solution. Nitrog^lycerin. See Nitrites {Nitro- glycerin). Nitrohydrochloric Acid. See Nitric Acid. NitromonaS.—A group of nitrifying bacteria. See Nitrification. NitromuriatiC Acid.— Nitrohydro- chloric acid. See Nitric Acid. Nitrous Oxide. See Anesthesia {Nitrous Oxide Gas); Teeth {Tooth Extraction, Ancesthesia). " Nizin."—A zinc salt of sulphanilic acid, recommended as an antiseptic in gonorrhoea, as a urethral or vaginal injection (2 to 6 grs. to 1 oz.), and in conjunctivitis as a lotion (1 gr. to 1 oz.). Noasthenia.—Mental debility (Gr. voos, mind, dcrOeveia, weakness). Nobel's Blasting: Oil. —Nitro- glycerine or trinitrin or glonoin oil. See Nitrites. NoCtambulatiOn. — Sleep-walking or somnambulism. See Sleep, Normal and Mor- bid {Somnambulism). Nocturnal.—Belonging to the night; e.g. nocturnal incontinence {see Micturition, In- continence), nocturnal epilepsy, etc. Nodal.—Belonging to a node; e.g. the nodal point in vision (" the point of intersection of convergent rays of light with the visual axis of the eye "), the nodal swellings or karyosomes in the structure of the nucleus of a cell, etc. Nodding: Spasm.—Spasmus nutans. See Head-Shaking ; Spasm {Nodding Spasm). Nodes. See Heberden's Nodes ; Physi- ology, Tissues {Nerve, Nodes of Ranvier) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Local Periostitis, Parrot's Nodes). Nodules.—Small nodes or swellings; e.g. the subcutaneous nodules of rheumatism {see Rheumatism in Children, Symptoms, Subcu- taneous Nodules), the nodules of Arantius or corpora Arantii of the semilunar valves of the heart, etc. Noema.—A thought (Gr. voe'w, I think). Noises. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Labyrinthitis from Exposure to Noises); Tinnitus Aurium ; etc. Noli-me-Tangere. — Eroding ulcera- tion, especially of the face ; lupus {q.v).NOMA 67 Noma.. — Cancrum oris or gangrenous ulceration of the cheek. See Gangrene {Cancrum oris); Stomatitis {Gangrenous); Measles {Complications, Ulcerative Stomatitis). Non Compos Mentis.—Literally, of unsound mind, applied to idiocy, to temporary weakness of intellect, etc. The pleural is non compotes. Noriipa,rSi.—A woman in labour with her ninth child; a nonigravida is a woman pregnant for the ninth time. Non-Union. See Fractures {Sequelce, Non-Union). Non-Via.ble.—The term applied to an infant born prematurely before it is capable of independent life apart from the mother. See Viability. NodlOg'ia.. — The doctrine of mind or science of the understanding (Gr. vdos, mind, Ao'yo?, discourse). Noorden's Treatnnent.— Von Noorden's dietetic method of treating obesity. See Obesity {Treatment, Dietetic). NoOSteresIS. — Loss of intellect, or dementia (Gr. voos, mind, o-Tepryo-is, privation or loss). Nordauism.—Degeneracy; in reference to Dr. Max Simon Nordau, the author of works on Degeneration and the Malady of the Century, and a disciple of Lombroso. Nordtmeyer-Berkefeid Filter. —A variety of house filter for purifying water ; it contains prepared infusorial earth, and is fitted to the water-tap. Norm.—A standard or type. Norma. — An aspect or view, e.g. the norma occipitalis is the view of the skull look- ing towards the back. Normoblast.—A normoblast is a nu- cleated red corpuscle resembling in size and shape the normal red blood corpuscle, but differing, of course, in the possession of a nucleus. Norris' Corpuscle. — A colourless corpuscle of the same size and shape as the normal red blood corpuscle, which is practically invisible in the serum. North Berwick. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotland). Norton's Operation.—A method of operating upon webbed fingers, or syndactylism. See Deformities {Hand and Fingers). Norton's Wells.—Tube wells consisting of iron pipes driven down into the soil one after another and fixed one to another ; they are of special value in obtaining a water supply in places where the soil is gravelly. Norway. See Balneology {Norway, Sweden, and Iceland). Norwegian itch. See Nails, Affec- tions of {Parasitic Diseases, Animal). Nose.—The diseases of the nose are con- sidered in the following sections :— 1. Nose, Examination of the . . 67 2. „ Anaesthesia of ... 74 3. Nasal Orifices and Septum . . 75 4. Acute Inflammations ... 80 5. Chronic Inflammations ... 83 6. Chronic Infective Conditions . . 88 7. Postnasal Adenoid Growths . . 91 8. Neuroses 97 9. Accessory Cavities . .100 10. Various Conditions : Foreign Bodies, etc 123 See also Anesthesia, Ether {In Postnasal Adenoids); Asthma {Morbid Anatomy, Mucous Membrane of Nose); Bone, Diseases of {Syphil- itic Disease of Nasal Boiies); Cough {Nervous, Nasal Polypi); Diphtheria {Clinical History, Nasal Diphtheria); Ear, Acute Inflammation OF Middle {Causes); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non- suppurative Disease {Hypertrophic Catarrh, Causes); Epistaxis ; Galvanic Cautery {Indica- tions, Disease of Nose); Glanders {Pathology); Hay Fever {Symptoms); Headache {Migraine, Effects); Invalid-Feeding {Nasal Feeding); Lac- rimal Apparatus, Diseases of {Nasal Duct); Leprosy {Lepra Tubercles in Nasal Mucosa) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Nose); Malingering {Nasal Simulations); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Introduction, Route of Infection); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious Menstruation, Nasal); Myiasis {Myiasis Na- rium); Palate {Hare - Lip, Complications); Physiognomy and Expression {Nose); Physi- ology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Special Senses, Smell); Retina and Optic Nerve {Atrophy of Optic Nerve in Nasal Disease); Stammering {Etiology); Spine, Surgical Af- fections OF {Scoliosis, Secondary to Nasal Ob- struction) ; Syphilis {Secondary in Nasal JIucous Alembrane, Tertiary in Nose); Syphilis {In Children, Snuffles); Teeth {Alveolar Abscess, Nasal Septum); Trades, Dangerous {Chemical Workers, Bichromate Poisoning, Erosion of Sep- tum Nasi); Vertigo (Varieties, Nasal) ; Voice (Nasal). 1. Examination of the Nose 1. General Examination in Regard to— (a) Exterior of the Nose and Aspect of the Face .... 68 {b) Character of the Voice . . 68NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE 68 (c) Patency of the Nasal Passages . 68 (d) Character of the Patient's Breath 68 (e) Senses of Smell a.nd Taste . . 68 (/) Character of the Secretion from the Nose .... 69 2. Examination of the Interior of the Nose and Nasopharynx by— (a) Anterior Rhinoscopy ... 69 {b) Posterior Rhinoscopy . . .71 (c) Palpation . . . . 73 (i.) Anterior .... 73 (ii.) Posterior- .... 74 1. General Examination (a) Exterior of the Nose and Aspect of the Face.—Careful note should always be taken of the appearance presented by the external nose. Bendings of the dorsum may indicate deflections of the septum, although the latter often occur without external evidence. The bones and cartilages may be bulged outwards by polypi or other intranasal growths, which in some cases appear through the nostrils. When the nasal cavities are completely impervious, or in a less degree when they have been much obstructed for a length of time, the tip of the nose assumes a pinched aspect. Its alse are pressed towards the septum and wasted, the mouth being con- stantly more or less open, the folds between the nose and upper lip are obliterated, whilst owing to the connection which subsists between the orbicularis and other muscles of the face (W. Meyer), the inner canthi of the eyes are drawn down, the eyebrows pushed upwards, and the skin of the forehead corrugated. The face alto- gether acquires a dull, listless expression. The broad flattened bridge in cases of ozsena, and the great depression of the nasal bones occurring in tertiary syphilis, must be mentioned, as likewise the thickening sometimes met with in tuberculous nasal disease and in rhinoscleroma. Redness of the alse and tip of the external nose, unless due to some other obvious cause, should lead us to suspect intranasal irritation. Excoriations at the edges of the nostrils are common when there is much secretion from the nasal cavities. Note should always be taken of any inequality of the two sides of the face, such as occurs in congenital occlusion of one posterior naris, and of any special prominence of one superior maxilla resulting from disease in the antrum. Enlargement of the transverse vein at the root of the nose has been described as a symptom of obstruction of the posterior part of the nose (Scanes Spicer). {b) Character of the Voice.—Important infor- mation may be gathered from observing the character of the voice. Complete closure of the anterior nares affects the voice, as heard by another person, as follows: non-nasal vowels {i.e. vowels properly pronounced so that no air enters the nose) are not appreciably affected ; the non-nasal consonants (such as 6, d, c, s, etc.) are not altered. The nasal vowels (i.e. vowels pronounced with an escape of air into the nose) become more distant, their resonance is altered in character. The nasal consonants (m and n) are heard more distantly and with an altered nasal resonance. Obstruction in the naso- pharynx destroys all nasal resonance, rendering the voice "dead," turning the consonants mand n into b and d respectively. When growths obstruct the posterior nares, but do not project into the nasopharynx, a certain resonance of the voice remains as pointed out by W. Meyer. (c) Patency of the Nasal Passages.—The methods at present generally in use for ascer- taining the patency of the nasal passages are certainly deficient in accuracy, but with experi- ence they give practically a good idea of the amount, if any, of obstruction present. They are as follows :— 1. Place the patient opposite to you facing- the window, and let him breathe with his mouth closed, first quietly, then forcibly; note whether there is any retraction of the alse on inspiration, and any difficulty in keeping the mouth closed. 2. Close the nostrils alternately by placing your thumb in an upward direction against one anterior naris, making the patient breathe in and out. The sound produced is a guide to the amount of obstruction, the broad soft sound of a wide canal contrasting markedly with the shrill note of a much obstructed passage. Several instruments for a more scientific examination of the perviousness of the nose have been devised, but as they have not yet come into practical use a description of them here is out of place. (d) Character of the Patient's Breath.—During the above examination it is well to notice whether the patient's breath has any special odour, and if so, whether the latter emanates from the nose or from the mouth. If the former, whether the smell is confined to one or the other side, and a very little experience will enable one to distinguish between the smell due to ozsena, to necrosed bone (as met with in syphilis), and the less pungent odour attached to abscess in the accessory sinuses. (e) Senses of Smell and Taste.—The patient, if intelligent, may usually be trusted to give a sufficiently accurate account of his sense of smell and taste, provided that the distinction between true taste (by means of the glosso- pharyngeal and lingual nerves) and the taste of flavours (by means of the olfactory nerve) be explained to him. If not, his sense of smell is tested qualitatively by exposing certain scents below first one and then the other nostril. The taste of flavours may be tested by swallowing with both nostrils open, or with one closed. Zwaardemaker's olfactometer may be used for the quantitative estimation of smell. It consists of a graduated glass tube, one end of which is69 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE inserted into one nostril, whilst over the other end fits a sliding tube which is either made of an odoriferous substance (such as gutta-percha), or impregnated with an odoriferous liquid. The length of the outer tube, which needs to be exposed beyond the glass tube in order that the smell may be perceived, gives a rough estimate of the amount of smell power present. (/') Character of the Seeretion from the Nose. —Discharge from the nose may be of any con- sistence, varying from a clear white serous liquid to a thick, creamy, purulent secretion; it may be more or less tinged with fresh or old blood, and present the form of hard crusts of inspissated pus. Various living creatures may occasionally be found in the secretion, such as ascarides, centipedes, earwigs, and the ova and larvte of several varieties of flies. The quantity of the discharge varies very greatly. It may escape through the anterior or posterior nares, in the latter case passing into the pharynx. It may be one or both sided. Microscopical and bacteriological examination are necessary in order to make a complete ex- amination of the secretion. Microscopically, the secretion from the nose may be found to con- tain blood, pus, mucus, epithelial scales, fungi (e.g. aspergillus fumigatus, and oidium albicans). Numerous observations have shown that, in the normal state, the vestibules swarm with bacteria. The nasal cavities always contain a greater or less quantity of microbes, but they are not nearly so numerous as might be expected (Hajek, Park, Wright, and Viollet). St. Clair Thomson and Hewlett arrived at a different con- clusion, as they only found microbes present in 20 per cent of their observations, and, according to Piaget, they are absent in the deeper parts of the nasal cavities. Klemperer, on the other hand, never found a nose free from germs, not even in its uppermost parts. The chief organisms that have hitherto been detected in the nasal cavities are, according to Viollet, as follows : ^ — Friedliinder's pneumo- bacillus, Frankel's pneumococcus, staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus et lutis, micrococcus liquefaciens albus et flavus, streptococcus pyo- genes, micrococcus cereus flavus, micrococcus tetragonus, bacillus tuberculosis, sarcina alba, lutea et aurantiaca, bacterium coli, bacillus pseudo-diphtherite, meningococcus intracellularis of Weichselbaum. The question whether the sparsity of germs is due to the action of the ciliated epithelium, to the bactericidal properties of the nasal mucus, or to phagocytosis, is one which is much debated, but belongs to the domain of the physiology of the nose. As a rule, special varieties of bacteria cannot be considered responsible for special diseases ^ Id infection respiratoire : Moyens de defense de Vorgan- isme. Paris, 1900, pp. 44 and 45. This work contains s very complete history of the literature of the subject. (Hajek and Rohrer). The chief exceptions are : (1) Tuberculous affections of the nose—bacillus tuberculosis; (2) Glanders — bacillus mallei; (3) Rhinitis diphtherica—Loffler's bacillus diph- therije ; (4) Leprosy—bacillus leprae; (5) Rhino- scleroma—Frisch's bacterium. In the following diseases two or more varieties of bacteria have been found :— 1. Simple perforating ulcer of the septum (ulcus perforans)—streptococcus pyogenes and staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. 2. Rhinitis blenorrhoica—streptococcus pyo- genes, micrococcus erysipelatosus, and gono- coccus. 3. Rhinitis pseudo - membranacca — Klebs- Lbfifler bacillus, bacilhxs pseudo-diphtherise, staphylococcus, pneumococcus. 4. Influenza-rhinitis—Pfeiffer's bacillus, pneu- mococcus, streptococcus and staphylococcus aureus. In other inflammatory diseases of the nose, such as acute and chronic rhinitis, acute and chronic inflammation of the accessory cavities, many varieties of cocci and bacilli have been found, but their relationship to these diseases has not been definitely established. According to Abel, the bacillus mucosus is always present in and may be regarded as the cause of ozsena. Chemical examination of the secretion from the nose may be necessary in order to distinguish it from cerebrospinal fluid, which may escape through that organ. The presence of reducing substances, as shown by Fehling's test, and the absence of mucin distinguish cerebro-spinal fluid (St. Clair Thomson). 2. Examination of the Interior of the Nose and Nasopharynx (a) Anterior Rhinoscopy. — Anterior rhino- scopy, or inspection of the nasal chambers from the front, requires: (1) a speculum to dilate the vestibule, or at least retract the ala; and (2) a strong light, which should be thrown into the nose by a reflector attached to the observer's forehead. The number of different specula which have been devised is very large; those most commonly used are known as Duplay's, Thudichum's, Frankel's (with fenestrated or solid blades), and Hartmann's (which has long handles, and is a modification of Kramer's ear speculum). The form I usually employ for examinations is Duplay's, as the pressure can be so accurately regulated by means of the screw ; and for operations I use Hartmann's, modified by making the blades broader and more like Duplay's. When both hands are required, which is rare, the speculum must be held by an assistant, or a self-retaining speculum be used. The illumination employed may be either sunlight or artificial light: for the latter, electi'ic light is most convenient (a 32-candle- power lamp, fitted with a bull's-eye condenser); in its absence, an argand gas-burner with aNOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE 70 bull's eye answers well. Limelight, though giving splendid illumination, is too complicated to be generally employed. When sunlight is used the reflector should be plane; when artificial light is employed a concave reflector, having a focus of about ten inches, is required. The reflector may be fixed either to a spectacle- frame or to a band passing round the forehead. The light is best placed on the right side of the patient, rather behind and above his head. In this way the right hand, when used for introducing a probe or other instrument, does not intercept the light. Direct illumination is unsuitable for anterior rhinoscopy. Method of Performance.—The patient being seated opposite the surgeon on the same level, the light is thrown with the reflector on to the nostril, and before the speculum is introduced the tip of the nose should be raised with the thumb and the columella, and both vestibules examined to see if there is any irregularity of the cartilaginous septum. The speculum being inserted into the vestibule with the left hand, and the blades gently separated as far as possible without hurting the patient, the beam of light is directed into it. Three positions are usually necessary for a full examination, the patient's head being guided into them by the right hand placed either on the vertex or on the patient's occiput, in the latter case the thumb being on the patient's left cheek. It is best to commence with the patient's head slightly thrown back; in this position the lower part of the middle and the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body are seen. By tilting the head farther back the neck of the middle turbinated body and the roof of the nasal fossa come into view, and by bending the patient's head sharply forwai'ds the inferior meatus, the palatal muscles, and the floor of the nose become visible. By re- peating these positions with the patient's head slightly turned to the opposite side, the corre- sponding portions of the septum can be inspected. Anterior Rhinoscopic View. — The view ob- tained by anterior rhinoscopy depends largely on the amount of erection of the inferior tur- binated body; if that body is much erected, no view of the deeper parts of the nasal cavity can be obtained. The inferior turbinated body itself appears as a round, shining eminence with a smooth surface, which is either in contact with, or in close proximity to, the septum. Above, it is prolonged into a broad neck, which, if the erection be extreme, completely conceals the middle turbinated body. The sensation produced by touching the inferior turbinated body with a probe is that of a soft cushion which can be deeply indented by pressui'e, but rapidly regains its original shape. To make an examination under these circumstances it is necessary to contract the erectile body by applying eucaine to the mucous membrane. This can be done either by spraying a 5 per cent solution of the hydrochlorate with a small hand spray through the anterior naris, or by inserting a small pellet of absorbent wool satu- rated with the same solution into the nasal cavity. The entrance of cocaine into the throat is more easily avoided by using the latter method. 1 After an interval of a quarter of an hour collapse of the erected turbinated body is at its height, and the parts appear as shown in Fig. 1.2 Inferior Turbinated Body.—The an- j Fig. 1.—Left anterior rliinoscopic view in a woman, aged 26. a, Anterior extremity (collapsed) of interior turbinated Ijody ; b, inner surface of same, seen in perspective, showing a rounded swelling; c, anterior border of middle turbinated body, ending below in the angle, which in this case presents a puffy swelling; above, the anterior border terminates in the neck of the body (e); d, tubercle of the septum ; /, lower border of middle turbinated body ; git, depressions on either side of the necli ; 3, forming part of the olfactory slit, and k, a portion of the middle meatus ; h, a moderately deep-seated swellinK on the septum ; i, ditto, much farther inwards; j, inferior meatus, through which the movements of the palatal muscles can be seen; I, "neck" of the inferior turbinated body. terior extremity, or the presenting part, forms a somewhat irregular undulating surface, ter- minating below in a more or less sharp margin which overhangs the inferior meatus. Above, it tapers gradually into the outer wall of the nasal cavity, forming, as viewed from the front, a kind of "neck" (Fig. 1, I); the inner surface of the body {i.e. the septal surface) can be traced far back, often to its posterior extremity. The greatly foreshortened view of this surface may present the appearance of a shallow concavity or of a slightly roimded eminence. It is best seen by turning the patient's face towards the side under examination. On account of the comparatively small size of the bone itself this position is sometimes necessary, even to see the inferior turbinated body. Middle Turbinated Body.—Above, and at a considerably greater distance from the orifice, is seen the middle 1 Cocaine has not only an ischsemic, but also an anfes- thetic etfect on the nasal mucous membrane : it cannot, therefore, be employed when it is desired to test reHex nasal irritability with a probe. Eucaine, which also acts as a local anaesthetic, has very slight ischaemic prop- erties. When ischaemia is desired, it may be combined with extract of suprarenal capsule ; but for examining the nose, eucaine, unless specially contraindicated, stands first. - A Oxdde to the Examination of the Nose. By E. Cresswell Baber, London, 1886.71 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE turbinated body. The parts visible, providing there is nothing to intercept the view, are the anterior and inferior borders (c and /) and part of the internal surface. The angle of junction of the two borders is the part nearest to the ob- server's eye. Each of these borders presents an inner and an outer lip. Theoretically these are the parts which should be seen, but practically a considerable portion of the middle turbinated body is often hidden by the tubercle of the septum (d). If the tubercle be not very large, the inner lip of the anterior margin of the middle turbinated bone is to a great extent hidden from view, but above the tubercle is seen the neck of the bone (e), i.e. the narrow portion where it joins the body of the ethmoid bone. On its inner side a portion of the olfactory slit (g) is visible ; on its outer side is a depression (k) which forms part of the middle meatus. The tubercle often conceals the neck and whole of the inner lip of the anterior border of the middle turbinated body, leaving only the outer lip of the anterior border, the angle, and the lower border exposed to view. The tubercle must not be mistaken for a de- flected septum. The mucous membrane cover- ing the middle turbinated body is normally smooth and shining in appearance, and often presents a very minute red and yellow mottling. Septum.—The septum at its lower part may be traced as a slightly undulating surface passing directly backwards to the posterior naris. General or partial bleedings of the septum are common. Slight irregularities are so often met with that they can scarcely be considered abnormal. A small conical elevation opposite the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body is of frequent occurrence, and often has a ridge running upwards and backwards from it. Above, the septum presents the tubercle as already mentioned ; below, it joins the floor of the nasal cavity, which appears as a somewhat hollow surface seen greatly foreshortened. By projecting the light through the inferior meatus (/), the posterior wall of the nasopharynx and the movements of the palatal muscles during deglutition and phonation are often visible. These, when clearly made out, form a good test to the permeability of the inferior meatus. In exceptionally wide nasal cavities the upper margin of the posterior naris, bounded by two arches, one immediately above the other, may be seen, and above these again the anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone. The middle meatus is situated between the middle and inferior turbinated body, and on the space existing between the middle turbinated body and the outer wall of the nasal cavity depends the depth to which this meatus can be in- spected. As regards colour the inferior tur- binated body is the darkest, being of a deeper colour than the mucous membrane of the mouth. The septum is the next darkest portion, and the middle turbinated body lighter than either. Use of the Nasal Probe.—The use of the nasal probe under guidance of the eye is of great importance for controlling the appearances seen in any part of the nasal cavity, and for ascertaining the reflex irritability of the different intranasal structures. It should be blunt but not bulbous, non-flexible, and at- tached at an obtuse angle to a suitable handle. (6) Posterior Rhinoscopy. — Posterior rhino- scopy, or inspection of the nasal cavities and nasopharynx from behind, is accomplished by placing a small mirror at a suitable angle in the pharynx, and concentrating on it a strong light in the optical axis of the observer. Light is thus thrown into the naso-pharynx, and the image of the illuminated parts is seen by the surgeon. The appliances required are: (1) a powerful light; (2) a small rhinoscopic mirror ; (.3) a tongue-depressor. The light may be the same as that used in anterior rhinoscopy, and the same means can be employed for concen- trating and reflecting it. The rhinoscopic mirror should be circular and varying from half an inch upwards in diameter. If hxed, it should be attached to the shaft at an angle of 110°, but a larger angle is convenient for view- ing the roof and posterior wall of the naso- pharynx. Preferable to the fixed mirror is Frankel's, in which, by an ingenious arrange- ment, the angle of the mirror to the shaft can be altered after the instrument is in position. A tongue depressor is usually required for posterior rhinoscopy ; it should be angular, and not broader than necessary to keep down the centre of the tongue. Method of Performance. — The patient is seated with his head vertical or bent slightly forwards, and the observer takes up his position facing him on a rather lower seat. The patient being then told to merely open his mouth and not inhale or hold his breath, the tongue is gently, but firmly, held down with a tongue depressor, and the light from the reflector thrown on to the posterior wall of the pharynx. The previously warmed rhinoscopic mirror, with the reflecting surface directed upwards, is then rapidly passed into the pharynx, just below the velum, until it nearly, but not quite touches the posterior wall of that cavity. Then by gently depressing the handle (thus raising the mirror and rendering it more nearly vertical), if there be sufficient space between the velum and the posterior pharyngeal wall, the posterior rhinoscopic image comes into view. The parts first seen are probably the posterior surface of the uvula and velum. Above this a whitish vertical band is visible, the posterior margin of the septum of the nose. The other parts of the posterior rhinoscopic view are then seen by slight movements of the mirror in different directions.72 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE Posterior Rhinoscopic Vieiv (Fig. 2).^ — It should be borne in mind that as we are looking at the nasopharyngeal cavity from below, both the anterior, lateral, and posterior walls will tissue. Of the three meatuses the inferior cannot be seen, owing to the position of the mirror. Eustachian Orifice.—Immediately to the outer side of each choana, and apparently Fig. 2.—Posterior rhinoscopic view, seen with the mirror in the ordinary position and without the use of any instrument to draw forward the palate, a, Posterior surface of uvula; b, uvula cushion ; c,c, posterior margin of palate (arcus palato-pharyngei); d,d, levator cushions; e, septum nasi;/,/, swellings on the sides of the septum; g,g, choanae or posterior nares ; h,h, inferior turbinated bodies; middle turbinated bodies; Eustachian openings, more strictly the depressions leading to them; k,k, Eustachian cushions; 1,1, sal- pingo-pharyngeal folds; m,m, salpingo-palatine folds; n,n, position of upper part of Rosenmiiller's fossa;; 0,0, posterior tubal sulci. appear considerably foreshortened in a vertical direction, also that the portion of the lateral wall of the cavity which is in front of the mirror (and which, therefore, requires the mirror to make with it an angle larger than 4-5°) is sub- jected to a horizontal foreshortening. The former is minimised by holding the mirror as high as possible, the latter by placing the mirror in the position recommended by Zaufal for seeing the salpingo-pharyngeal fold, viz., low down in the pharynx with its back against the tonsil or posterior faucal pillar of the opposite side. Uvula and Soft Palate.—Above the posterior surface of the uvula (a) is seen a rounded fleshy eminence {b), the uvula cushion, and on either side, receding into the distance, the levator cushion (d). The septum (e) appears as a pale median ridge broadening above. On the two sides are commonly seen prominences of the mucous membrane (/,/). The choa7icB or pos- terior nares {g,g) are visible as two oval-shaped openings, one on either side of the septum. The lowermost part of the oval is usually concealed by the soft palate. Owing to the foreshortening they appear shorter than they really are. In each are commonly seen the three turbinated bodies and the two upper meatuses. The in- ferior turbinated body (h) appears as a rounded swelling at the bottom of each choana, a large portion of it being hidden by the velum palati. It is generally grey, and corrugated on the surface. 77ie middle turbinated body (i) has a light red colour and a smoother surface. Its septal surface can often be traced running forwards into the nasal cavity. The superior turbinated body may appear as a narrow ledge running parallel to the middle, but it is not always clearly visible. The posterior end of the inferior turbinated body may become tem- porarily swollen by the distension of its erectile 1 Ihicl., p. 109. on a level with the middle meatus, is seen the orifice of the Eustachian tube (j), or rather the depression leading to it. It appears as a light triangular depression with a dark outline, the base of the triangle being directed inwards towards the margin of the choana. Above it is the Eustachian cushion (ft), which appears as a thick red lip. Behind, it curves downwards as the salpingo-pharyngeal fold (^), and in front it passes into the less well-marked salpingo- palatine fold (m). Though in reality on a lower level, the upper margin of the Eustachian cushion appears in the mirror higher than that of the choana. Immediately above the upper margin of the Eustachian cushion is seen the roof of the naso-pharynx, and tracing this back- wards it passes gradually into the posterior wall, a depression being often visible in the median line at the junction of the two, the opening of the so-called pharyngeal bursa. To the outer side of the cushion (as regards its rhinoscopic view) is seen the fossa of Rosen- miiller, which is often traversed by bands at the point (w). Examination with the Probe.—The consistence, form, and mobility of these parts may, under favourable circumstances, be ascertained by the use of a postnasal probe, under guidance of the eye, or a probe may be introduced through the nose, its movements being watched in the rhinoscopic mirror. For the former purpose the probe should be a long one, and bent at right angles at a distance of about 1^ inch from its distal end. It is best made of silver, so that the curve may be altered if desired. Difficnlties in performing Posterior Bhino- scopy.—These are chiefly twofold: (1) Irrita- bility of the tongue and pharynx, which can generally be overcome by spraying in or plug- ging the parts with a 5 or 10 per cent solution of hydrochlorate of cocaine; (2) obstruction produced by the soft palate. Contraction of73 NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE tlie muscles may cause the soft palate to rise, preventing all view of the nasopharynx. This may often be overcome by explaining to the patient that he is not required to do anything but open his mouth and breathe in the ordinary way. If this fails, one of the following devices may be tried, viz. : (1) Direct the patient to sniff up gently through the nose ; (2) make him pronounce a nasal sound, such as the French word " on " or the English " hang " ; (3) cause him to make a snoring noise; (4) instruct him to take a succession of short, sharp, gasping inspirations. When it is impossible to cause relaxation of the palate by these means, or in cases in which there is not sufficient space between the velum and the posterior pharyngeal wall even when the palate is relaxed, that organ should be drawn forwards with White's palate- hook.i This instrument is made of a square Fig. 3.—Method of holding the self-retaining palate hook and : previous to an examination of the nasopharynx. steel bar about 3 millimetres thick, terminating in a loop of pure silver wire, heavy enough to hold the palate and yet light enough to be changed in shape by the fingers if required. On the bar slides the attachment which clamps ■over the upper lip and holds the retractor in position. This sliding attachment with two arms requires no fixation to keep it in position, the tension being alone sufficient to make it im- movable. For greater security, however, in performing an operation, a small fixation screw is added. The mode of application is as follows: —The hook is held between the thumb and first two fingers in the manner shown in Fig. 3, and a rhinoscopic mirror, previously warmed, is grasped between the last two fingers and the palm. The tongue being held down by an angular depressor in the left hand, the hook is ' See articles by the author, " A Recent Improvement in Posterior Rhinoscopy" {British Medical Journal, January 12, 1889), and "Further Remarks on the Self- retaining Palate-Hook " (ihid., June 28, 1890). introduced well behind the velum, and the patient being told to close his lips around the hook, without biting it, and inspire through the nose, the clamp is pushed rapidly forward with the second finger of the right hand until the loops are pressed firmly into the depressions on either side of the nose, where they remain. The already warmed mirror can then immedi- ately be employed to view the naso-pharynx. The patient should be directed to breathe deeply during the examination. Removal of the hook is accomplished by catching and drawing backwards with the finger the xmder part of the sliding attachment. By adopting this plan the hook need only be kept in for a very short time for a simple examination. Cocaine is usually required, but may often be dispensed with for a simple inspection when the palate is weak and the patient not very sensi- tive. The cocaine is best applied by in- jecting into either nostril, with a small syringe, a few drops of a 10 per cent solution, and holding the patient's head well back so as to let it run over the velum. For examination of the naso- pharynx the hook is invaluable, as it renders narrowness of the post-palatal cleft no impediment. Other advantages are that a large-sized mirror (one having a diameter of |-| of an inch) can usually be employed; the illumination of the parts is consequently brighter, and as j there is a larger field of vision the differ- ent structures are more easily recognised. II The view of the anterior and posterior i ///' walls of the cavity is also less foreshort- ened ; indeed, for anatomical reasons, no inspection by rhinoscopy of the posterior wall can, as a rule, be considered complete '^"^ unless some means are used for drawing forward the palate. A little practice on the part of the surgeon enables the hook to be em- ployed in almost any adult case at the first sitting. The posterior wall of the naso-pharynx may also be examined directly, often up as high as the pharyngeal bursa, by inserting the palate- hook loosely, tilting its distal end well up, and throwing back the patient's head as far as possible. Other palate-hooks have been devised, but this, as far as I have seen, is the most practical one. Some authors also recommend that the palate be drawn forward by rubber tubing inserted through the nasal cavities. (c) Palpation. — Indirect palpation with a probe has already been mentioned; direct palpation with the finger may be anterior or postei-ior. Anterior palpation is done by in- serting the little finger through the vestibule. The anterior part of the septum and inferior and middle turbinated bodies can be reached by this method. Posterior palpation, by inserting the finger into the nasopharynx, is a proceeding more frequently employed.NOSE, EXAMINATION OF THE 74 Method of performing Posterior Palpation.— The patient being seated, the surgeon stands on one side, and with his arm going behind the patient's head, holds a simple gag (such as Meyer's) in position. He then passes the fore- finger of the opposite hand (preferably the left on account of its smaller size) rapidly to the posterior wall of the pharynx, and up behind the soft palate, until the posterior edge of the nasal septum is felt as a thin hard ridge. On either side of the septum the posterior ends of the inferior turbinated bodies (sometimes those of the middle turbinated bodies also), especially if they are at all swollen, give the impression of soft cushions. They may be considered abnormal if they project into the naso-pharynx. The situation of the Eustachian cushion and orifice and the salpingo-pharyngeal fold can also be felt on either side, and behind these Rosen- miiller's fosste. The roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx should be carefully examined. Normally these parts have an uneven, irregular surface, but when adenoid vegetations are present they are studded with more or less pedunculated growths of all sizes and shapes. Palpation must be rapidly executed as it may produce retching. The first joint of the surgeon's forefinger may be conveniently protected from the patient's teeth by wrapping a piece of linen round it. Difliculty in getting a child to open its mouth can usually be overcome by moral suasion; if not, pressure of the cheek between the jaws with the surgeon's fingers will ac- complish • it. Difficulty in passing the finger behind the soft palate is to be met by inserting it at the lateral part of the palate, close to the tonsil. No force should be used. When the palate is passed, the beginner should be careful to pass his finger rapidly up to the roof, and feel for the septum, otherwise it may be grasped by the palate and never reach the vault at all. For an examination of the accessory cavities of the nose the reader is referred to p. 108. 2. Nose—Local Anaesthetics The drugs that may be employed for the induction of local anaesthesia of the mucous membrane of the nose and naso-pharynx are menthol, cocaine, eucaine, and chloretone ; in con- nection with these, for reasons to be presently stated, mention should be made of the liquid extract of the suprarenal gland. The above drugs possess, in varying degrees, an ischaimic as well as an antesthetic action, and their relative value depends upon the purposes for which they are required. The points to be considered are : (i.) Strength of solution required ; (ii.) method of application; (iii.) rapidity, intensity, and extent of antes- thesia produced ; (iv.) general and local action upon the circulation ; (v.) after effects. Menthol is of service in relieving local irrita- tion and congestion, and is employed in oily solutions of 10 to 30 grains to the ounce by means of a spray. The anaesthesia, compared with that produced by cocaine and eucaine, is slight and insufficient to permit of it being used in surgical work. Cocaine.—The strengths of solutions commonly recommended are excessive. For the purposes of examination of the nose, or the passing of a Eustachian catheter, a 5 per cent solution of the hydrochloride of cocaine may be used, but a 2 per cent solution, if freshly prepared, will generally produce sufficient anaesthesia and ischfemia. For operative purposes the strength of the solution should be from 10 to 15 per cent. It is important to remember that cocaine when kept in solution loses its anaesthetic action. Upon the method of application of the drug will largely depend the degree of anaesthesia produced, and consequently the degree of dis- comfort afforded to the patient, and the facilities to the operator. A spray used in the nares will not produce so uniform and localised an anaesthesia as a saturated pledget of cotton-wool carefully adjusted to the part to be treated. Moreover, sprays involve a waste of the drug, and are no doubt responsible for not a few of the toxic results. Speaking generally, a globular pledget introduced on forceps is not so efficacious as one spindle-shaped. A spindle- shaped pledget, an inch to an inch and a half in length, can be conveniently made by lightly wrapping absorbent wool round the tapering end of a small whalebone probe, which after being dipped in the solution of cocaine can be slipped into the nose so as to lie parallel with the turbinate body, the pledget being steadied with the points of forceps whilst the whalebone probe is withdrawn. For postnasal and nasopharyngeal operations local anaesthesia may he obtained by dropping the solution directly upon the part to be treated from a long straight nozzle of a syringe passed through the nares, the head being thrown backwards. Cocaine is perhaps more rapid and intense in its action than eucaine, and on that account may be regarded as the better anaesthetic; but it has its drawbacks, which will be presently mentioned. Gray ^ has pointed out that these drugs are more penetrating when dissolved in equal parts of dilute alcohol and aniline oil, and recommends a solution of five parts of cocaine dissolved in this vehicle for induction of anaes- thesia of the ear. This solution, he finds, pene- trates the tissues without destroying them, and produces a more complete anaesthesia than the aqueous. Unfortunately, alarming symp- toms of prostration, pallor, and cyanosis may follow, which must be ascribed to the toxic effect of the aniline oil.^ Another useful solution is a 5 per cent in equal parts of glycerine and rectified spirit. 1 Laved, April 21, 1900, vol. i. p. 1125. 2 Lavcef., April 20, 1900.' Journal of Laryngology, vol. xvi., June 1901. Nov. 27, 1897, vol. ii. p. 1560. NOSE—LOCAL Cocaine is a vaso-constrictor, and produces that ischsemia so serviceable both in investigat- ing and treating diseases of the nose. Unfortu- nately, it has a depressing action on the heart, which may give rise to most untoward symptoms and inconvenience to the operator. In prescrib- ing it for the patient's own use one has to bear in mind the possibility of a vicious habit being acquired. The disturbances of sensation caused by the anaesthetic action of the drug may persist for hours, or even days, so that some patients prefer the small amount of discomfort occasioned by minor manipulations, such as the passage of an Eustachian catheter, to the after effects of the drug. The toxic symptoms when they arise may be combated with inhalation of the vapour of nitrite of amyl and stimulants. Eucaine}—What has already been said in speaking of cocaine, with reference to the strength of solution and the method of applica- tion, is applicable to the use of eucaine. Local anaesthesia is perhaps not so rapidly produced by eucaine as by cocaine, and it may be that proportionately as the drug is less toxic it is also less powerful. Upon the application of a 5 or 10 per cent solution of eucaine to the mucous membrane, hypersemia occurs as an immediate result ; this is in the majority of cases but an initial blush, rapidly passes oiT, and gives place to an ischsemia which, as seen in the nose, is generally less marked than that produced by cocaine. It is unusual to meet with excessive or unexpected haemorrhage following operations done under eucaine anaesthesia, such as is not uncommonly met with after the use of cocaine; this is no doubt accounted for by the action of eucaine upon the peripheral vessels already alluded to. Associated with the initial hyperaemia is an increased salivation. The after effects of eiicaine are less unpleasant than those produced by cocaine, and are more transient. Those who have experienced the effect of both drugs have expressed a decided preference for eucaine. Eucaine is free from the toxic potentiality of cocaine, and is, there- fore, of considerable service as an efficient sub- stitute in cases in which an idiosyncrasy for cocaine would preclude an operation. Chloretone is acetonchloroform, or trichlor tertiary butyl alcohol. It is formed when caustic potash is slowly added to equal weights of chloroform and acetone. Locally it acts like cocaine as a peripheral anaesthetic, and is said to be free from the depressing effects. It also possesses antiseptic properties, and has been found of service in preserving solutions of suprarenal gland. Sufficient time has not yet elapsed to determine its true value relatively with the other local anaesthetics. Liquid extract of suprarenal gland is perhaps ^ British Med. Journal, Jan. 16, 1897, vol. i. p. 134 ; ANAESTHETICS 75 the most powerful vaso-constrictor we possess, and on that account must be mentioned here. When applied to the mucous membranes the parts are shrunken and rendered bloodless, and this renders it specially valuable in control- ling haemorrhage and obtaining a comparatively bloodless field in nasal surgery. The ischaemia it induces gives it a special value in treatment of hay fever, as its local effect can be repeatedly obtained without the risk of entailing the vicious habit of cocaine. It is very important that the solution should be freshly prepared, and this has hitherto been an impediment to its use. The difficulty has been met in two ways: by the addition of a preservative, such as chloretone, to the aqueous extract; and by supplying it in small cylindrical glass capsules known as " hypodermules," ^ each containing 1 cubic centimetre of a standard solution sterilised in a manner which will re- tain its properties unimpaired for a lengthened period. 3. Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum Skin Affections of Vestibule . . 75 Affections of Septum Nasi ... 76 Benign Tumours of Nasal Foss^ . . 77 Malignant Growths of Nasal Foss^ . 80 Skin Affections of the Vestibule The affections of the orifices of the nose or vestibule are more properly described under the headings of the various skin affections; yet it will be opportune to mention the principal skin diseases that are here encountered, if only for the sake of a completeness in local classification. The commonest is eczema, which we find principally as the result of the constant ex- posure of the skin to irritating discharges, the most common of which is that of ordinary rhinorrhoea. This is most commonly found in young children suffering from acute or chronic rhinitis, when the resulting eczema of the vestibule may be associated with an external herpes. When due to these causes it is usually seen as a moist, inflamed, and sore surface with little or no itching. In the more chronic ail- ments of the nose it is not uncommon to find, at the anterior and posterior angles of the nostril, minute fissures apparently extending hardly to a greater depth than that of the epithelium, which nevertheless are extremely painful and obstinate in healing. Rarely do we find the chronic forms of eczema such as affect the external auditory meatus and are dependent upon constitutional rather than local causes; yet now and again we see a chronic eczema associated with what appears to be sycosis involving the hair follicles, when indeed the patient suffers from considerable swelling of the nose and extreme pain in the region of the follicles affected. The latter may also be theNOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM 76 initial site of a septic process responsible for the necrosis of so much tissue as to induce true furunculus. The prognosis of such affections is necessarily guided by general principles, though so far as an eczema is dependent upon acute or chronic rhinitis a cure of the skin affection will necessarily depend upon the removal of its etiological factor. In treatment we are guided again by general principles, the main endeavour being to protect the irritated skin from the discharge flowing over it. There is no better local application for this purpose than the vaseline of commerce, though it is often advisable to use it in conjunction with oxide of zinc, or with a few grains of calomel. A convenient plan is to dilute the zinc ointment with an equal part of paraffinum fluidum, which makes it of such consistence that it can be applied with a camel-hair brush. Where the eczema is associated with suppuration about the hair follicles the diluted nitrate of mercury ointment is sometimes used with benefit, while sulphide of calcium may be occasionally given with great advantage. Of course, where furun- culus is forming, hot fomentations must be used freely and incision made as soon as point- ing is defined. Other skin infections of the vestibule of the nose, such as lupus and other infective processes, are occasionally met with in conjunction with the same affections of the adjoining mucous membrane ; and, of course, their treatment must be guided by collateral indications. Affections op the Septum Nasi Affections of the septum nasi may be classified according as they are simply malformations, or are definitely pathological. Probably there are no congenital malformations ; for the various distortions and thickenings of the septum, whether cartilaginous or bony, are never seen during the first few years of life, seldom indeed under the age of seven—though it is well to remember that there may exist the congenital, more or less complete, occlusion of the posterior nares by a membranous partition. The only pathological conditions of any importance, apart from hypertrophy of the erectile tissue (which will be discussed in its place), are abscess and perforation. Abscess is occasionally met with as the result of trau- matism, the immediate cause being a compound comminuted fracture of the triangular cartilage. Occasionally by such septic process the whole of the cartilage is sometimes destroyed, leaving the nose permanently deformed. The rhino- scopic appearances are peculiar: the nostrils obstructed by a smooth, fluctuating tumour, symmetrically disposed on the two sides, is characteristic enough for easy diagnosis, though of course the fluctuation may be caused by eftVised blood at a stage prior to the onset of suppuration. The only treatment is to open the abscess on both sides and pass a drainage tube through the septum so that it may emerge at both nostrils. The abscess-cavity can then be irrigated until perfectly sweet with some common antiseptic fluid. Abscesses may also probably arise from other causes, such as tubercle or the breaking down of a gumma; but in this case, although the triangular cartilage may be completely destroyed, no malformation of the nose will result provided neither the nasal bones, the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, nor the vomer are involved. Indeed, perfora- tions of the triangular cartilage are not un- common, and may follow typhoid, scarlet, and possibly other fevers. Sometimes they are the result of ulceration, induced by constant removal of the inspissated mucus with the finger, and then are often associated with epistaxis. When involving the bony septum they are generally syphilitic, though I have good reason for believing they may follow influenza and possibly even simple catarrhal processes. Malformations of the septum arise owing to some irregularity in the development process. It would appear that the septum having arranged for a certain extent of growth in a vertical direction, and for a certain degree of prominence in the nose, became arrested in such endeavour by the lack of corresponding enlargement of the nasal fossae themselves in their vertical diameter. Thus, should the septum continue its attempts at extending after its limits have been fixed, it will spend itself by developing in other directions; and in this manner may be accounted for the devia- tions of the septum which are so common, as well as the ridges and spurs so frequently responsible for nasal stenosis. The deviations in themselves are generally of less importance than the thickening at the angle of deviation on its convex side; and the ob- struction thereby produced can generally be corrected sufficiently by paring with the knife or saw the actual thickening. Such thicken- ings, whether cartilaginous or osseous, are often out of all proportion to the amount of deviation, and assume such a size that they may block more or less completely the fossae by pressure on inferior or middle turbinal. Indeed, spurs and ridges are often found without deviation, when they generally extend in a direction upwards and backwards, following the line of union between the vomer and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. It is unnecessary to speak of the symptoms induced by these septal malformations, seeing that they do not differ from those appertaining to other forms of nasal stenosis, which are dis- cussed at length under the ai'ticle devoted to " Adenoids." For frequently recurring catarrhs, whether of nose, larynx, bronchial, or Eustachian tubes, a spur may often be held responsible.77 NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM Occasionally irritation in the antrum of High- more is caused by such pressure of a spur; while many a case of obstinately recurring poly- pus proves rebellious until such an obstruction is removed. Similarly, paroxysmal sneezing and asthma may be ascribed to stenosis of the fossae. The treatment is necessarily surgical, and the removal of ridge or spur must be carried out boldly. The handiest instrument for most cases is Bosworth's saw, which serves equally well for bone and cartilage. The destruction of mucous membrane entailed is of little con- sequence provided it is not removed too freely from the anterior part of the triangular carti- lage ; and it is of no great consequence if a perforation of the septum is inadvertently pro- duced. When the growth of cartilage is so far forward as to block the vestibule it is preferable, when possible, to save the mucous membrane. This can be effected by turning up a flap with the raspatory and slicing away the cartilage beneath. The disadvantage of a scar in this situation lies in the fact that the mucus tends to dry and adhere to it, thus causing a good deal of irritation and often epistaxis in the act of cleaning the nostrils, whether with the finger or by blowing. For simple deviations without definite ridges various procedures have been advocated, the only satisfactory operation being that of Dr. Asche of New York. It consists in making a stellate incision over the deviation with scissor- forceps devised for the purpose, and then with a special instrument seizing each triangular piece and fracturing it at its base, thus allow- ing it to lie in a vertical position without the help of splints ; indeed, this is the only way in which a corrected deviation can be insured against returning to its former position as soon as the pressure of retaining splints is removed. Yet even in Asche's operation it is advisable to fix in the nares suitable plugs for two or three weeks. Occasionally small spurs and ridges must be removed with a saw or knife before making the stellate incisions. In all such operations on the septum it is necessary to watch the case during healing on account of the frequency with which the granulations fungate and prevent cicatrisation. The inflammatory affections of the septum consist in hypertrophies of the erectile tissue over the triangular cartilage, which take forms precisely like those found over the inferior turbinals, and sometimes develop even true papillomata,^ and of ulceration and perforation either of cartilage or bony septum. Such ul- cerations are for the most part found over the anterior part of the triangular cartilage, and are due to the long-continued irritation and atrophy of the mucous glands, thus changing the normal membrane into a thin, friable, dry skin, upon which collects and dries the mucus ^ Vide article on " Benign Growths of the Nose." flowing from adjacent parts. In the removal of this inspissated mucus with handkerchief or finger the friable surface is torn, and thus, by a constant repetition of this pi'ocess, ulceration is induced, which in its turn leads to necrosis of the cartilage and perforation. Although this is the ordinary course in the production of a perforation, there is no doubt in my mind that simple catarrhal ulceration of the mucous mem- brane covering the septum also may lead to perforation in regions inaccessible to traumatic influence, and on which the mucus will not actually di'y. Such perforations, it is said, are found sometimes after typhoid, scarlet fever, diphtheria, etc. Syphilis is, of course, the commonest cause of destruction of the bony septum, although by far the majority of per- forations of the cartilage are not syphilitic, as used formerly to be supposed. The treatment of hypertrophy of the erectile tissue must be conducted upon general prin- ciples, removing it with snare or otherwise destroying it with the electric cautery. The ulcerations must also be treated upon common- sense grounds, the prime object being to prevent the accumulation and drying of the mucus over the sore surface. Nothing is better for this purpose than a semifluid zinc or boric acid oint- ment. Occasionally, of course, caustics may be used with advantage, and none is more useful than chromic acid in a 10 per cent solution. Benign Tumours op the Nasal Foss/e The ordinary benign tumours of the nose ai'e comprised under two headings : First, those consisting in hypertrophy of the erectile tissue, and confined for the most part to the inferior turbinals and the anterior part of the septum; a,nd, second, those ordinarily called polypus, which spring from various parts of the ethmoid. All these are unquestionably of inflammatory origin, although in many text-books of surgery they were till lately described as adenomata or myxomata. The former term apparently in- cluded the true hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals, seeing that the mucous glands, to- gether with the other elements, undergo hyper- trophy, while polypus, being oedematous fibroma, was readily mistaken for true myxoma. They are always associated with a catarrhal condition, and undergo fresh increase of size whenever inflammation is set up, whether from the con- traction of cold or from the use of irritating- measures of treatment. (1) Hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals must be distinguished from mere vascular en- gorgements of the venous sinuses. The former always present a more or less lobulated appear- ance, often producing growths of cauliflower-like appearance, so much so, indeed, that they are frequently mistaken for papilloma. On the other hand mere vascular engorgement, although it may attain such size as to fill completely both78 NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM inferior and middle meatus, is invariably smooth and globular on the surface, while it pits to a curious degree on manipulation with a probe. The application of cocaine causes rapid shrink- ing of the tumefaction, while it has little or no effect upon the hypertrophic condition. The two, however, are frequently associated, and both may present all degrees of colour from bluish-white, under conditions of local or general anaemia, to a dark mulberry colour, seen especially in those posterior hypertrophies which project into the postnasal space. The symptoms are, of course, identical with those produced by any form of obstruction, although it appears to me, from my own experience, that these hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals are more clearly productive of asthma than other forms. And this I maintain, although polypus is more often associated with asthma; for both the latter being expressions of a common inflam- matory action involving the whole respiratory tract, do not appear to stand to one another in the same relation of cause and effect. The dis- tinction is a purely clinical one and of importance in prognosis, although the statement is difficult to siibstantiate on theoretical grounds. As far as local symptoms are concerned these hyper- trophies are always associated with much catarrh, and a greater degree of difficulty in extruding the secretion than is accounted for by the actual amount of obstruction to breathing. Mucus is often seen lying imprisoned in the inferior meatus in ropy, tenacious masses, which the patient is unable to remove by any amount ■oi blowing. The hypertrophied masses may attain such a size as not only to fill inferior and middle meatus, but also to encroach very con- siderably upon the postnasal space. Indeed, when adenoids are present also, as sometimes happens, the postnasal space may be completely filled. The diagnosis between these hypertrophies and mere vascular engorgements I have already related, while they may be as easily distinguished from polypus by the translucency, mobility, and uniformity of the latter. The treatment con- sists in the removal of the redundant tissue by means of the cold or incandescent snare. My preference is for the former, as it excites less inflammation in the surrounding parts, while, if so constructed as to constrict the growth very slowly, there need be no more bleeding than in the use of the incandescent snare. Minute hypertrophies may be suitably destroyed with the cautery-point, though such treatment is too slow for the larger masses. The operation of turbinectomy need only be mentioned to be con- demned ; for it artificially produces an atrophic rhinitis with many of its attendant miseries, more especially dryness of the pharynx and larynx. But it is an operation more easily accomplished, and requiring less time than the •careful trimming of an hypertrophied inferior turbinal to its normal limits, and so is much patronised in some quarters. ^ For the posterior hypertrophies the snare is the only instrument; but in the anterior, scissors and forceps may often be used with advantage. Finally, it may be mentioned that there is little or no tendency to a recurrence of these growths after complete removal. (2) The benign tumours affecting the eth- moidal region, while all definitely inflammatory, are more complex in their etiological appear- ance and habits than those just described. Thus we have simple mucous polypi, cystic mucous polypi, polypi associated with caries and suppuration in the accessory cavities, as well as osseous cysts and bony hypertrophies of the middle turbinals. Upon the pathological relations of these diff"erent inflammatory growths it is hardly necessary in this place to enter; suffice it to repeat that, although the older pathologists describe these growths as myxo- mata, it is now the fashion, and probably cor- rectly so, to consider them as merely oedematous forms of all transitions between granuloma and fibroma. No true myxoma cells are ever met with. The growths are covered with ciliated epithelium, even when they are rather to be considered as oedematous granulations springing from a bed of ulceration. In the latter event the growths are always associated with sup- puration ; and when this is the case the prog- nosis should be guarded, seeing that the extent of the mischief, and the question whether any accessory cavities are involved, often cannot be determined until the growths themselves are removed. Otherwise the prognosis is altogether favourable, provided the surgeon has skill to effect, and the patient the perseverance to wait, through eradication. Indeed, mucous polypi do not recur in spite of what is commonly be- lieved, provided they are completely removed : and the possibility of effecting this depends upon the accessibility of the individual growths. For these growths are nearly always multiple, generally affecting both fossfe, while they involve chiefly the upper and lower surfaces of the middle turbinal. Cystic polypi are curiously diff"erent. They are solitary, seldom involve both fossEe, are situated far back in the middle meatus; and so little sign is left after their removal of their precise situation, that it is im- possible to effect satisfactory after-treatment as a guarantee against recurrence. Yet they often recur, rapidly attaining as before their removal enormous dimensions, so that, growing from one middle meatus alone, they may block both fosste as well as fill the postnasal space. They gener- ally contain a thin, yellowish, transparent mucus resembling that found in retention in the an- ' Vide author's presidential address in section of Laryngology, annual meeting of Brit. Med. Assoc., Montreal, 1898.NOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM 79 trum ; while their walls, microscopically resem- bling the structure of multiple polypi, vary con- siderably in thickness. Whether these cystic polypi are originally obstructed mucous glands, or whether they are diverticula resulting from occlusion of some accessory sinus, which I strongly suspect to be the case, judging from the certainty and rapidity of recurrence, has not at present been determined. Osseous cysts are not common, though they may attain such dimensions, distending the nasal bones, deviating the septum so as to block the opposite fossa, as may cause complete ob- struction of nasal respiration. Their causation is obscure: some cases, I believe, being due to distension of the walls of the infundibulum from retention, and some to occlusion of the space formed by the incurving of the middle turbinal's free border.^ At any rate they are lined with epithelium, and generally contain masses of atheromatous material. In one case I found the interior studded with small polypi. Such growths, of course, do not recur after removal, and the prognosis is always good, seeing that the tumours are readily amenable to surgical attack. Osseous hypertrophies of the middle turbinals are sometimes of sufficient importance, from the pressure they produce upon contiguous parts, to necessitate removal. They are the results of simple osteophytic periostitis, and may or may not be associated with polypus. Hence also the prognosis, of course, is eminently satisfactory. Such benign tumours, involving various re- gions of the ethmoid, may be encountered in patients of either sex or any age, though for the most part they are commoner in men and ex- tremely rare in childhood. They are, as already remarked, the result of a catarrhal process, and hence are more frequent in those climates and latitudes which favour the catarrhal process. There is a well-marked hereditary proclivity, as there is to hay fever and asthma. The symptoms caused by them are those simply of nasal ob- struction, though we often have in addition symptoms arising from retention in the accessory cavities or from pressure on the nasal duct; consequently the eyes are often watery and sympathetically inflamed, while, probably from pressure on the lymphatic circulation, the patient's mental-faculties are retarded in activity. Indeed, very curious mental conditions may be entirely removed by the cure of polypus, and I have known agoraphobia immediately cured and the faculties of memory and sleep greatly im- proved by such operations. Asthma, chronic bronchitis, and chronic laryngitis are frequent concomitants of nasal polypus, although, as I have said before, and judging from clinical ex- perience, I believe that asthma must be con- ' A Treatise on Nasal Suppuration. By Dr. Ludwig Griinwald (translated by W. Lamb. M.D.), 1900 p. 237. sidered an accompaniment rather than a con- sequence of polypi. Treatment.—The only treatment worth con- sidering is operative, and although many local astringent remedies have been recommended, yet all, from powdered alum or tannin to ab- solute alcohol, have proved futile. The forceps were \ised entirely before the days of cocaine, and have still their value in removing large quantities when the patient is under a general aniBsthetic; but for operating with cocaine, and where it is preferable to effect a clearance with a succession of operations instead of at a single sitting, one or other form of snare is to be pre- ferred. An idea is prevalent in some quarters that the incandescent snare renders recurrence less likely, though there is probably no justifica- tion for such a surmise; and the same objection applies to it as in the use of the cautery-point for destroying these growths, namely, that steam is generated by its use and the surrounding structures inevitably scalded. Indeed, the cautery-point is only admissible when we can see precisely the limits of the growth to be destroyed, and can bury its point in the polypus, so that the latter itself will protect the adjacent parts. An extremely useful instrument for effecting the removal of very small growths which are quite accessible is the forceps of Hey- mann, while the curette and sharp spoon have their uses in removing small growths and granu- lations from the roof or outer wall of the middle meatus. Recently ablation of the middle tur- binal has been strongly advocated as a help to the eradication of a polypus-producing mucous membrane ; and in certain cases, more especially where the growths arise in the superior meatus or from the upper surface of the middle turbinals, it is justified. Nevertheless, it is becoming com- moner than is justifiable when one remem- bers that it is not altogether devoid of risks. Meningitis has more than once followed the operation, and the cribriform plate has actually been fractured in the attempt. Moreover, it is seldom necessary to remove the whole structure, and its free margin can be safely cut off with scissors in one piece, or piecemeal with the punch forceps of Griinwald or Symonds. Important in the eradication of polypus is the removal of any adventitious source of ob- struction. Septal spurs and irregularities may render access to the growths difficult or im- possible, while hypertrophies of the inferior turbinals or of the erectile tissue of the septum must sometimes be removed or reduced before we can hope to minimise the tendency to cold- taking, which is the chief factor in recurrence. Although in this place it is not intended to consider constitutional causes which may pre- dispose to a cold-taking, I cannot let the oppor- tunity pass of insisting upon the fact that over- clothing, imperfect ventilation of the living and sleeping rooms, are the two conditions oftenestNOSE—DISEASES OF NASAL ORIFICES AND SEPTUM 80 responsible and at the same time most easily remedied. Malignant Growths of the Nasal Foss^ Malignant growths of the nose are rare, and are almost confined to sarcoma. Formerly it used to be asserted that mucous polypi occasion- ally became epitheliomatous. Thus Erichsen ^ wrote that after the extraction of benign polypi from the nose in children and yoimg adults, sarcomatous, myeloid, or encephaloid tumours often supervene. Nevertheless the rhinologist of to-day is altogether unaware of such trans- formation. 1 have operated myself upon over a thousand cases, and never yet encountered such unfortunate results. Probably the original diagnosis was in fault, and the surgeon was dealing with those tumours which used to be styled fibrous polypi of the nasal pharynx, originating generally between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five, many of them undoubtedly malignant, and some presenting a sort of semi- malignancy. These tumours were fully de- scribed by Dieffenbach in 1834 ; and since then many continental surgeons, e.g. Nelaton, Chas- saignac, Langenbeck, Huguier, etc., have con- tributed to the operative treatment of these growths. Yet so rare is the disease in this country that Paget tells us that he has never had an opportunity of examining these growths in the fresh state. Probably they would now all be classed as sarcomata, possibly with a smaller degree of malignancy than is met with in the same growths when occurring in patients of riper years. Indeed, it is said that, provided the growths can be held in abeyance till the patients have attained the age of five-and-twenty, they show a tendency to undergo spontaneous absorption. The disease is admittedly rare in females, though 1 have seen two instances in girls under thirteen years. The growths appear to originate at the base of the skull, either from the sphenoid or cribriform plate of the ethmoid. Tliey extend into the fosste, into the naso- pharynx, even into the accessory sinuses, and produce that separation of the orbits and flat- tening of the nose which has been likened to a frog's face. The symptoms are those common to all forms of nasal obstruction, with the addi- tion of repeated and severe haemorrhages, and not infrequently a tendency to prolonged and profound sleeping. Sarcoma in older patients may originate in any part of the nasal fossae I have twice been able to localise it in the middle turbinals, once in the superior meatus, and once on the anterior extremity of the inferior turbinal. The prog- nosis of such growths is certainly not quite so grave as similar tumours in other parts of the body. Not to mention the statement already made, and of which I can give no personal ' Science and Art of Surqery. By Erichsen, 7tli ed., 1877. assurance, namely, that after the age of twenty- five there is a spontaneous tendency on the part of the nasopharyngeal fibrous polypi to undergo absorption, I have recorded a case of small- celled sarcoma of such extent that one of our most distinguished surgeons declined to operate, where nevertheless complete eradication was effected by intranasal treatment, and where, to my knowledge, the patient remained free of the disease for three years after the last opera- tion. Consequently, provided such growth is accessible and presents a fairly localised point of origin, its actual size need not deter us from attempting eradication by intranasal operations. But the patient should understand that the surgeon must have an absolutely free hand for as long a time as he may think desirable. Nevertheless, most of these cases will fall into the hands of the general surgeon rather than of the rhinologist; and the operations for the removal of such growth, whether by splitting the hard palate or by the removal of the superior maxilla, fall under the domain of general surgery. 4. Acute Inflammation of the Nose Acute Rhinitis—Coryza ... 80 Etiology 80 Symptoms . . . . .81 Prognosis . . . . .81 Treatment . . . . .82 Fibrinous Rhinitis . . . .83 Acute Suppurative Rhinitis ... 83 Acute Rhinitis Synonyms : Coryza ; Cold in the Head ; Acute Nasal Catarrh Definition.—An acute catarrhal inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes. This common aff"ection may occur under diff'erent circum- stances, e.g. it may constitute a malady in itself, or it may form an early manifestation of a more serious disease, such as congenital syphilis, in- fluenza, measles, whooping-cough, and glanders ; or, again, it may represent the main feature of conditions where neurotic and vasomotor changes are predominant, as in hay fever and paroxysmal sneezing. Finally, symptoms re- sembling " a cold," and known as iodism, may result from the administration of iodide of potassium. Etiology.—Although the rapid onset, course, constitutional symptoms, and evidence of con- tagiousness of acute nasal catarrh render it highly probable that a specific micro-organism is the exciting cause, yet no such materies morbi has hitherto been discovered. There are many well-known predisposing causes, without one or more of which the exciting cause would appear to be unable to precipitate an attack of acute rhinitis. Among the more important of these may be mentioned :NOSE—ACUTE INFLAMMATION 81 (a) Pathological conditions of the nasal mucous membranes and cavities, e.g. various forms of hypertrophic rhinitis, polypi, septal spurs, crests, and deviations, all of which produce obstruction to nasal respiration; (b) sudden changes of temperature from hot to cold, and vice versd; (c) nervous exhaustion; (d) bodily fatigue, especially when this supervenes upon free perspiration; (e) draughts of cold air blowing upon a heated or perspiring skin; (/) an hereditary tendency to acute nasal catarrh. In conditions of health the nasal mucus is said by Thomson and Hewlett ^ to inhibit the growth of pathogenic micro - organisms, very few of which are to be found within the nasal cavities, and possibly the predisposing causes, already enumerated, act by weakening in some way the protective properties of the normal mucous membrane and its natural secretion, so that the specific micro-organism of acute rhinitis not only flourishes for the time being within the nasal cavities, but gains an entry to the general system through the lining mucous membrane, and thus produces both local and constitutional symptoms. It is an interesting question whether in some cases an entrance into the system may not be effected, in a similar manner, by the germs of those grave diseases which occasionally follow in the wake of a neglected cold. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—There are swelling and hyperaemia of the nasal mucous membranes with increased cell-proliferation and secretion. The fluid is slightly alkaline, con- tains traces of albumin, yields a precipitate with acetic acid (mucin), does not reduce Fehling's solution, and stiffens a handkerchief upon which it dries (c/. characteristics of fluid in cerebro- spinal rhinorrhcBa). Symptoms.—The onset of acute nasal catarrh is usually marked by slight feelings of malaise associated with a sense of dryness, pricking sensations, or stuffiness within the nose. Sneez- ing is an early and rapidly becomes a prominent symptom, accompanied by the flow of a clear watery discharge from the nostrils. Owing to the irritating nature of the fluid and the con- stant use of the handkerchief, the skin around the nostrils and on the upper lip becomes red and sore, while not uncommonly herpetic vesicles make their appearance in this situation. The swelling of the nasal mucous membranes produces nasal obstruction, necessitating mouth breathing with its added discomforts. Frontal headache, pains in and around the eyes, and suffusion of the conjunctives, indicate the spread of the catarrhal process from the nose to the surrounding structures. The sense of smell is temporarily lost, and hence there is no appreciation of flavour, while extension of the catarrhal process into the naso- pharynx may produce occlusion of the pharyn- ^ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. VOL. VII geal orifice of the Eustachian tube, causing slight deafness and tinnitus, and possibly a little earache. If the inflammation actually passes into the tympanum, acute otitis media and its sequelae may result. The effect on the voice of this general swell- ing of the nasal mucosa is to destroy its natural resonance, rendering it toneless and deadened. In young children, especially when nursing at the breast, nasal catarrh may constitute a serious condition, because it will entail great difficulty in feeding, owing to obstructed nasal respiration. The acute symptoms of coryza may last from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, when they gradually diminish in severity. The discharge becomes more viscid and muco-purulent, and usually becomes quite purulent before the catarrh has entirely passed off. A general sense of weakness and depression is apt to supervene upon the subsidence of the acute symptoms, while the spread of the catarrhal condition to the pharynx, larynx, and larger bronchial tubes is evidenced by hoarseness, cough, and muco-purulent expectora- tion, which symptoms may last from ten to twenty days after the commencement of the acute attack. It should be borne in mind that during the first month of infant life congenital syphilis may first manifest itself in an attack of acute rhinitis, which is usually accompanied or shortly followed by the characteristic skin eruption most common about the buttocks. The nasal discharge, at first clear, quickly becomes purulent and dries around the nostrils, pro- ducing soreness and superficial ulceration, while the nasal obstruction caused by the disease renders the proper nourishment of the child a matter of great difficulty {vide " Hereditary Syphilis"; for nasal symptoms of hay fever, vide article "Hay Fever"). Prognosis.—This is nearly always good, but in young children and old people a cold in the head, especially when neglected, is often followed by bronchitis, or other acute diseases of graver significance. Constantly recurring attacks of nasal catarrh tend to weaken the resistance of the nasal mucous membranes, so that at last a condition of chronic rhinitis is produced, characterised by hypertrophy of the nasal mucosa, nasal obstruction, excessive secretion, and various other symptoms {vide Chronic Rhinitis). Furthermore, acute rhinitis is often the starting-point of acute and chronic suppurative inflammations of the nasal accessory sinuses; especially may this be the case when the nasal catarrh is associated with influenza, the acute specific diseases, or the patient lives among insanitary surroundings. Probably in all cases of acute coryza the catarrhal changes spread into the frontal, ethmoidal, and maxillary 6NOSE—ACUTE INFLAMMATION 82 sinuses, but, as a rule, the inflammation subsides with the general subsidence of the catarrhal process. Treatment.—This may be considered under the headings of {a) Prophylaxis, (6) General and Local Treatment. (a) Prophylaxis. — A person subject to acute nasal catarrh can do much by care to render the attacks less frequent by the avoidance, or remedying of those predisposing causes to which allusion has already been made. A cold bath in the morning, followed by the use of a rough towel, is an excellent method of rendering the body less sensitive to changes of temperature. In children, old people, and those with feeble circulation, and in others where a cold bath is followed by white fingers and a sense of chilliness or headache, the water should be used lukewarm, and followed by a momentary cold douche. Nothing renders a person more sus- ceptible to " cold " than undue wrapping up or " coddling " of the body. Under such circum- stances perspiration is easily produced, and the liability to catching cold increased. Some form of wool should be worn next the skin, a thinner or more open texture in summer than in winter. Neckwraps are rarely necessary. Bed-clothes should be light and warm, and even in winter counterpanes are unnecessary. With regard to the daily routine of life, there is little doubt that overfed, plethoric, sedentary individuals are more liable to colds than spare and active people who live plainly and spend a considerable portion of their time in the open air. (6) General Treatment.—When a cold com- mences, active treatment must be instituted at once if it is to be of any avail. Most people agree that diaphoresis is advantageous, and, furthermore, that opium or one of its active principles is the best means of promoting that end. The drug should be administered in the early stage of a cold before free discharge occurs, and, if possible, it should be given on a nearly empty stomach. Ten grains of Dover's powder at night, followed by a cup of hot tea or hot lemonade, spirits of nitre, or hot whisky and water, is an old-fashioned and excellent remedy. Others prefer a pill of sulphate of morphia, gr. \, during the early evening, and a second on going to bed, followed by a hot drink. The next morning 5 grains of quinine may be taken with advantage. When the discharge is free the opium may be combined with diuretics, e.g. tr. opii T\xv., spir. eetheris nitrosi liq- ammon. acetat. oiij., aq. camphorfe ad 5j. To be taken at bed- time in an equal quantity of warm water. The patient should keep indoors and in a warm room, but well ventilated. Should the opiate cause headache, furred tongue, or nausea, a saline aperient will be beneficial. When catarrhal symptoms are accompanied by severe headache and general muscular pains, the salicylate of soda may be conveniently sub- stituted for the opium in the above presci'iption, and of the mixture one ounce should be taken every four hours until the pain is relieved. In children and young people generally aconite has been highly recommended. It may be prescribed in pilules containing gr. of aconitine, one of which may be taken every two hours for three doses ; or the tincture of aconite, one minim every half-hour for three or four doses, may be substituted for the alkaloid. As a general rule this drug acts quickly and well if it is going to act at all, and it should only be given in the early stage of febrile affections (Yeo). From personal experience the writer can testify to the great diminution of the nasal discharge brought about by abstention from liquids. An occasional tea-spoonful of lemon water is quite sufficient to assuage thirst for the twelve hours or so during which the rhinorrhoea is profuse. The hypodermic injection of to gr. of atropine sulphate has been recommended, but hypodermic medication is open to objection on so many grounds that the writer cannot advise it for so universal a disease as that under discussion. Camphor pilules, or a few drops of spirits of camphor on a lump of sugar, are popular remedies for the early stages of a cold, but experience as to the efficacy of the drug varies very much in different cases. Local Treatment. — The very number of remedies recommended for the local treatment of a " cold " is sufficient guarantee that no one of them is universally applicable. Eucalyptus oil inhaled from a handkerchief is highly praised by some for its abortive effect upon a commen- cing cold, while others are equally enthusiastic of the virtues possessed by certain "anti- catarrhal smelling salts," e.g. ac. carbol. gr. 30, ammon. carb. ij., pulv. carbo. lejn. §j., ol. lavand. lT(_xx., tr. benzoin, co. fl. 3ss. M. Medi- cated steam inhalations often give relief to the nasal discomfort, and of these camphor is one of the best. One drachm of the " spirits of camphor" is added to a pint of boiling water contained in an inhaler or narrow-necked jug, and the vapour inhaled through the nostrils for periods of five to ten minutes twice an hour. Menthol has been similarly recommended; some ten to fifteen drops of a 10 per cent alcoholic solution of menthol are added to a pint of nearly boiling water, and used as above. A nebulised spray of menthol dissolved in liquid paraffin (x.-xv. grs. ad gj.) and used from an atomiser has been highly recommended to relieve the obstruction of the early stages of nasal catarrh, but my own experience is that although temporary freedom of nasal respiration83 NOSE—ACUTE INFLAMMATION is obtained by this means, yet the discharge is afterwards increased and also the soreness of the nostrils. Cushmann's menthol inhaler enables the dry vapour of the drug to be used, and can be carried about in the waistcoat pocket. Cocaine in from 4 to 10 per cent solution undoubtedly gives the very greatest relief to the nasal obstruction, and it is longer than that obtained by any other means. For this reason it has been highly recommended by some physicians, who do not hesitate to prescribe it for patients to use themselves. Many cases of the cocaine habit have been induced in this way, and those who have witnessed the terrible mental and moral effects characteristic of chronic cocaine poisoning will agree with the writer that the very greatest circumspection should be used in ordering the drug. It may be used without fear in little children where nasal obstruction prevents nursing or feeding. In such cases a few drops of a 5 per cent solution in olive or castor oil may be dropped from a pipette into each nostril five minutes before feeding-time. Nasal douches should never be used during the acute stages of nasal catarrh, but when the secretion has become muco-purulent or purulent an alkaline wash is useful, comforting, and hastens the return of the mucous membrane to its normal condition. Such a wash may be composed of potass, chlor., sod. bicarb., sod. bibor. aa §ss., sacc. alb. gj. One tea-spoonful in three-quarters of a tumblerful of lukewarm water may be used as a nasal wash night and morning. Such a lotion can be sniffed up the nostrils from a saucer or injected by means of a suitable nasal syringe. The combination of drugs used in the preparation of many favourite nasal washes may now be obtained in compound form. The depression and general malaise following a cold are best combated by tonics, such as Easton's syrup, or syrup of the hypophosphites, while the intervals between successive attacks may often be lengthened by periodically taking small doses of arsenic. Fibrinous Rhinitis Synonym : Membranous Croupous Rhinitis An inflammation of the nasal mucosa of an infectious nature characterised by the formation of a membranous exudation on their surfaces. The fibrinous membrane, usually limited to the nasal cavities, is more or less firmly adherent to the underlying mucous membrane, and its removal may cause slight hjemorrhage. Lack ^ has shown that this disease is caused by an organism identical with the true Klebs-Loeffler bacillus. The symptoms are often no more than those ^ Lack, Med.-Qhir, Trans., vol. Ixxxii. characteristic of a severe head cold associated with nasal obstruction ; in fact, the disease may be only recognised by the expulsion of mem- branous shreds from the nose. The secretion may become muco-purulent and foetid, and if unilateral will closely resemble those associated with a foreign body in the nose. Epistaxis may occur as a late symptom. Treatment. — The expulsion of membrane should be hastened by warm alkaline antiseptic sprays, but not forcibly removed. The nostrils may be swabbed out once daily with a mixture composed of lactic acid 2 parts, carbolic acid 3 parts, and glycerine 30 parts. The child should be isolated as far as possible, to avoid spread of infection. Acute Suppurative Rhinitis Purulent nasal discharges of acute onset are most commonly met with in infant life. The newly-born may be infected by a gonorrhoeal or leucorrhoeal discharge in the mother. In such cases the nasal mucosa are acutely inflamed, and the purulent acrid discharge rapidly pro- duces excoriation of the skin about the nostrils and of the upper lip. The conjunctivse are very liable to infection. Carelessness in adults may also result in the nasal mucosa being in- fected by a gonorrhceal discharge. Bosworth describes a purulent rhinitis of childhood which he regards as a precursor of atrophic rhinitis. The writer has no experience of such cases. A puriform nasal discharge of rapid onset may be met with in glanders and in the exanthemata, while the same symptom is one of the commonest evidences of congenital syphilis (vide supra). In adults, apart from gonorrhoeal infection, acute suppurative rhinitis may occasionally complicate the specific infectious diseases, and may also result from the use of septic instru- ments employed in intranasal operations. Treatment.—In addition to appropriate con- stitutional treatment the nasal cavities should be constantly cleansed by suitable antiseptic sprays, e.g. sodae bicarb, grs. 10, ac. carbol. gr. 1|, sodii chlorid. grs. 3, aquse §v. Such sprays should be always used at the body temperature. Another excellent wash is that already advised for the late stages of acute rhinitis {vide supra). 5. Chronic Inflammation of the Nose Chronic Rhinitis— Simple . . . . . .83 Hypertrophic . . . . .85 Atrophic Rhinitis— Foetid 86 Non-foetid 86 1. Chronic Rhinitis, Simple and Hypertrophic Simple chronic rhinitis may be described as a chronic inflammation of the whole of the mucous84 NOSE—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION membrane lining the nasal cavities. It is so often accompanied by hypertrophic changes that the two diseases (simple and hypertrophic rhinitis) may be conveniently considered together. Etiology.—Chronic rhinitis often has its origin in repeated attacks of acute nasal catarrh, especially when the form of the nasal cavities (deflections or spurs of the septum) jJredisposes to retention of the products of inflammation. Congenital narrowness of the nasal passages, causing the turbinated bones almost to touch the septum, and a high arch to the palate, also favour chronic catarrh. In other cases it is caused by the entrance of irritants into the nose, such as tobacco smoke, snuff, particles of coal smoke, and the irritants generated in certain trades, e.g. those of millers, tobacco workers, stone-masons, etc., and those found in certain chemical factories where ammonia, sulphuric acid, bichromate of potash, and other irritants are produced (coryza professionalis). In abscesses of any of the accessory sinuses the nasal mucous membrane is also kept in a state of chronic catarrh. Furthermore, growths in the nasopharynx, such as adenoid vegetations, may give rise to chronic rhinitis, as well as foreign bodies in the nose and rhinoliths. As predisposing causes for chronic coryza are enumerated : syphilis — especially congenital occurring in childi'en — scrofula, and gout. Chronic rhinitis is commoner in men than in women, in the proportion of two to one (Klem- perer). This is attributable to their occupations and habits. Pathology.—According to Hajek and Klem- perer ^ bacteria play but a subordinate part in chronic rhinitis ; it is therefore not to be re- garded as an infective disease. Bacteria have never been detected in the mucous membrane itself. Those present so abvmdantly in the secretion are, according to Klemperer, simply those found in the normal nose, which have enormously increased in number in the profuse and pathologically changed secretion. This does not, of course, apply to some forms of subacute purulent rhinitis, especially to gonorrhceal rhinitis, and possibly to that accompanying certain acute infectious diseases. The microscopic appearances consist (Klem- perer) of a considerable cellular infiltration of the epithelium and subepithelium tissue, espe- cially in the latter case round the glands and vessels. The epithelial layers are increased, the upper layers have become more cubical or flattened, and the ciliated cells are only present in places. The cavernous spaces are dilated; the connective tissue is scarcely increased. After a time the swelling of the mucosa in- creases and becomes more localised ; the diffuse swelling becomes a circumscribed thickening. ' Handbuch dcr Lai-yngologie und Rhinologie. Ed. by Dr. Paul Heymaiin, 1900, vol. iii. p. 384. Article on "Chronic Rhinitis." The parts most commonly afiected in this manner are the posterior and anterior ends, and the lower margins of the inferior turbinated bodies ; less frequently, the middle turbinated bodies, the floor, and the septum. The thick- enings may be of a dark purple colour, or whiter, from thickening of the epithelium and connective tissue. They may be markedly papillary in character, or the papillge may be only visible with a lens. Microscopical examination of the thickened portions shows a distinct in- crease of the connective tissue, also often of the vessels and glands. The epithelium exhibits the same changes as those already mentioned, but the layers are much more numerous, while the cellular infiltration is much less marked. Subepithelially, firm connective tissue is always present in considerable quantity. Various names have been given to these thickenings, according to the preponderance of different elements in their structure, and also according to their external configuration. As there is no unanimity on the subject amongst observers, Klemperer suggests that they should all be termed " thickenings," diffused or cir- cumscribed, temporary or permanent, the latter being divided according to their shape into polypoid, lobed, papillary, etc. Zarniko, on the other hand, prefers to call them all "fibromata," as the connective tissue is always increased. In ninety-nine times out of a hundred, the term " hypertrophy " cannot, strictly speaking, be applied to them (Zarniko), because (1) they do not exhibit a simple excess of normal growth corresponding in structure to the normal tissue, and (2) they do not exert the functions of the normal organ in an increased degree. Symptoms.—Stoppage of the nose and dis- charge are the symptoms chiefly complained of. The nasal obstruction may be one or both sided, temporary or permanent, and may alternate. It may be caused not only by structural changes, but by accumulation of secretion, which may be mucous, muco-purulent, or purulent in char- acter. Other symptoms are: loss of smell (anosmia), partial or complete; loss of taste of flavours (less frequent), excessive sneezing, sen- sation of pressure or weight in the nose, head- ache, epistaxis, loss of resonance of the voice (due to the nasal obstruction). A sensation of dryness and burning in the nose is sometimes present. Examination of the Nose.—Examination of the nose reveals in the simple form of chronic rhinitis a general redness and fulness of the mucosa, which has lying upon it in parts more or less mucous or muco-purulent discharge. In old-standing cases the mucous membrane is sometimes unusually pale. There is generally more or less turgescence of the erectile tissue on the inferior turbinated bodies, and when this is very marked and accompanied by vio- lent sneezing and watery discharge, the termINFLAMMATION 85 NOSE—CHKONIC " vasomotor rhinitis " is applied to the disease. The diagnosis between true thickenings (hyper- trophies so-called) and erection is made by means of cocaine, which reduces the latter and not the former. The thickenings also often appear distinctly papillary, and can be moved about with a probe, e.g. on the lower margin of the inferior turbinated body. When seen from behind the inferior turbinated body often has a mulberry-like (moriform) aspect. The diagnosis can also be completed by palpation of the choanse Thickenings at the back of the septum are not unusual; on the floor near the front they are most common, in my experience, in cases of a vasomotor character. Complications and Results. ■— The naso- pharynx, the pharynx, and even the larynx are often also affected, partly owing to the same source of irritation acting on them, partly from the mouth-breathing, which is naturally present when the nasal obstruction is at all marked. Various reflex nasal phenomena oc- cur, such as sneezing and watery discharge (as already mentioned), neuralgia, asthma, nasal cough, aphonia, laryngeal spasm, etc., also eczema of the vestibules, affections of the ex- ternal nose in the form of redness and thicken- ing of the tipae, the latter being probably partially reflex. The eye may be implicated through the lachrymal duct, causing affection of the lachrymal apparatus. Conjunctivitis (simple and phlyctenular), keratitis, etc. have been described in connection with chronic rhinitis. Ear complications are still more common, and may be roughly said to be due either to the nasal obstruction interfering with the proper ventilation of the tympanic cavities, or to an extension of the catarrh through the nasopharynx up the Eustachian tubes. Dis- eases of the accessory sinuses may result from chronic coryza, but probably the reverse is more commonly the case. Diagnosis. —The diagnosis is usually easy, the most important point being to ascertain whether, in addition to the nasal catarrh, any other affections are present, such as disease of the accessory sinuses or tumours, also the absence of any chronic infective diseases as syphilis and tubercle. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends chiefly on the causation of the disease, whether removable or not. The disease is not dangerous except in young children, when the nasal obstruction may interfere seriously with their nutrition. On the whole, the prognosis is favourable when the disease is suitably treated. Treatment.—In simple chronic coryza the first essential is the removal of any existing source of irritation, whether it be introduced from without or be an intranasal irritant (see above. Etiology). The secretion should be re- moved by regular cleansing of the nose by the patient; this may be accomplished either (1) by sniffing up a liquid from a vessel or the palm of the hand, and ejecting it through the mouth; (2) by using a glass syringe provided with an olive-shaped nozzle ; or (3) where there is much discharge, by the use of a Higginson's syringe with a similar nozzle.^ In the two latter cases the syringe should only be inserted into the narrower nostril, and the patient be directed to breathe through his mouth, and not to swallow while the liquid is in his nose. The simplest and best liquid to use is a warm normal solution of chloride of sodium {i.e. '73 per cent, or a tea-spoonful of table-salt to a pint of water). This may be varied, if desired, by a solution of bicarbonate of soda (jij. ad Oj.) or sulphate of soda (5iv. ad Oj.), or a mixture of these salts may be used. If the secretion be hard, its removal is facilitated by spraying in first some liquid vaseline (paroleine), or by previously inserting, for a short time, plugs of wool lubricated with vaseline. To arrest the secretion astringents are sometimes recom- mended, but they are, as a rule, badly borne, and often endanger the sense of smell; on this account alum and zinc salts must be avoided. A spirit spray, beginning with 25 per cent of rectified spirit in water, may often be employed with advantage, also the smoking of the nascent fumes of chloride of ammonium from an inhaler. Local applications by the surgeon of a solution of nitrate of silver are sometimes of service. The insufflation of powders, though recom- mended by some authors, is, I think, best avoided. When erection of the turbinated bodies is a prominent symptom and does not subside under this treatment, it should be re- duced by applications of the galvanic cautery. The most convenient plan is to score from behind forwards the anterior two-thirds of the inferior turbinated body under careful guidance of the eye. A fine cautery-point is used, which is bent near the tip towards the side being operated on. Three or four of these linear cauterisations made at the same time one above the other are usually necessary. When the swelling affects the posterior end of the inferior turbinated bodies it is best, if possible, to re- move it with a cold or hot snare introduced through the nasal cavity and guided, if neces- sary, into position with the finger in the naso- pharynx. After cautery operations on the nose, it is best to leave the parts entirely alone until the end of a week, when the slough may be re- moved with a pair of fine forceps. Electrolysis may be tried, but gives, according to my ex- perience, less satisfactory results. In hyper- trophic rhinitis, if the thickening is evidently producing obstruction, steps should be taken to reduce it. This is most satisfactorily ac- complished either at the front or back with the cold or galvanic snare. The former, according 1 The nasal douche should never be used, on account of the risk of producing acute otitis media.86 NOSE—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION to my experience, is preferable, and answers all purposes. Thickened portions that cannot be snared off may be burnt with the cautery or chromic acid. As in simple chi-onic catarrh, spurs, ridges, and deflections, which help to keep up the morbid condition, may have to be removed. Occasionally the turbinated bones, when narrowing the lumen, may have to be reduced by surgical means. As regards general treatment, high dry climates are usually good for chronic nasal catarrh, and any condition favouring the recurrence of acute attacks is, of course, to be avoided. In gouty cases suitable constitutional treatment may also be adopted. Coryza in Children.—The acute form affecting new-born children will be elsewhere described. Chronic coryza in older children is generally as- sociated with adenoid vegetations and enlarged tonsils. There is usually no localised hyper- trophy, but much general swelling, also often eczema of the vestibules. It frequently occurs with congenital syphilis. Rhinitis caseosa is a name that has been applied to cases characterised by the accumu- lation of a white or faintly pink highly foetid cheesy mass in one nostril, most of which it fills, giving rise to a sero-purulent secretion. Some authors, such as Klemperer, do not con- sider that it is a special form of rhinitis, but that the discharge, whether originating in the accessory sinuses or due to caries of the bone, etc. is simply retained and becomes decom- posed. Others, like Cozzolino and M'Bride, are of opinion that it forms a separate disease. The name Rhinitis oedematosa has been ap- plied to an oedematous condition of the nasal mucous membrane (Mulhall), but it is not a generally accepted term. The last remark applies equally to Rhinitis sicca, in which there is diminished secretion. Xanthosis of the nasal mucous membrane is a chronic condition described by Zuckerkandl, in which the mucous membrane assumes a yellowish dirty or rusty colour. It is chiefly found on the cartilaginous septum, but is occa- sionally seen in other parts of the nose. It will, therefore, be more properly described under diseases of the septum. 2. Atrophic Rhinitis, Fcetid (Ozyena) and non-fcetid This is a form of chronic rhinitis which is accompanied by wasting of the nasal mucous membrane and of the underlying bones. In the foetid variety, also termed oztena, the dis- charge forms tenacious masses and crusts which possess a highly penetrating disagreeable odour. In the non-foetid form, which is much less common, the accumulation of seci-etion is not so marked. Etiology. -— The etiology of this complaint is very imperfectly understood. According to some authors, it is the result of atrophic changes in tissues which have been previously hyper- trophied, but militating against this theory is the fact that most cases of ozsena date from early youth, although they do not usually come under treatment till puberty. It undoubtedly sometimes has its origin in acute infectious fevers. All authors agree that it is commoner in females than in males, this being the reverse of that found in hypertrophic rhinitis. Its oc- currence in several members of the same family has often been noticed, but its unintentional transmission from one person to another is unsubstantiated. Symptoms.—In some cases the external aspect is characterised by broad and depressed nasal bones, but this feature is not always noticeable. The three chief symptoms are: (1) Foetor; (2) atrophy; (3) secretion. The foetor varies in intensity in different cases and, as already men- tioned, may occasionally be absent. The odour is attached to the inspissated secretion, as it is not noticeable after the removal of the latter. It is very characteristic, has been likened to that of decayed cheese, and is distinct from the odour met with in connection with necrosed bone or abscess of the accessory sinuses. The foetor is not usually perceived by the patient himself. Nasal obstruction is often present, produced by the accumulation of discharge, and headaches may be complained of. Rhinoscopic examination usually, but not always, shows the nasal cavities large, wide, and lined more or less with a yellow or greenish discharge which is frequently found dried up into scabs of greater or less thickness, presenting a grey surface resembling that of pumice-stone. They often fill the nasal cavities, and adhere tightly to the underlying mucous membrane. When these are removed by syringing or, if necessary, by forceps or wool mops, the under- lying mucous membrane is iisually found thin and wasted, and the turbinated bodies, espe- cially the inferior, atrophied, making the nasal passages very wide, and allowing of a clear view of the nasopharynx, often also of the anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid. The mucous membrane, especially that covering the turbinated bones, may be found red, uneven, and bleeding slightly. The nasal bones also undergo atrophic changes. In the same nose both atrophic and hypertrophic patches of mucous membrane are met with (Krieg), the former chiefly at the lower part. All these conditions generally affect both nasal cavities in a varying degree, but may be limited to one side. There is no ulceration of the mucous membrane in true ozsena. The diseased process often extends into the nasopharynx, and may affect the pharynx (pharyngitis sicca) and even the larynx. Cases of ozajna affecting only the larynx and trachea have been described by Baginsky and Zarniko.INFLAMMATION 87 NOSE—CHRONIC Pathological Anatomy. — Microscopical ex- amination shows that there is first a round- celled infiltration of the mucous membrane, the round cells having a tendency to granular and fatty degeneration. Similar degenerative changes are found in the acinous and in Bow- man's glands. On the margins of the bones are numerous Howship's lacunse containing osteoclasts. The epithelium is generally con- verted into the cubical or pavement variety, of which the superficial layers may become horny. In later stages the cell infiltration gives place to a new formation of connective tissue, leading to shrinking of the mucous membrane and marked disparition of the glands and vessels (Zarniko).^ E. Frankel describes endarteritis obliterans, and Krause connective tissue thickening of the adventitia. The true nature of this disease has been the subject of innumerable observations and theories. As regards the fostor, as already noticed this arises only from the secretion, especially when it has lain for some time and hardened, for the fresh secretion has scarcely any odour. The smell is, according to some authors, simply the result of decomposition of the catarrhal secre- tion which stagnates in the nasal cavities on account of their abnormal width (Zaufal). Clinical observation, as well as physiological experiment, speak against this. B. Frankel considers that suppuration of the atrophic mucosa is a necessary preliminary, but that for the production of the foetor a ferment is required. Krause attributes importance to the alteration in the secretion by the presence of fat granules produced by the destruction of gland epithelium and of infiltration cells. These granules, mixed with the cornified epidermis, imdergo rapid decomposition and give rise to the foetor; but, on the other hand, this condition is not always present. E. Frankel thinks that the absence of glands, especially Bowman's, enables the bacteria of decomposition to flourish. Volkmann and Schuchardt also attribute the foetor to an anomaly of secretion which consists in the transformation of the normal cylindrical epithelium into a horny pavement epithelium ; this decomposes and pro- duces the smell in the same manner as occurs in plantar and axillary sweating, cholestea- toma, and intertrigo mammarum. This change is said to be always present in ozsena, but absent in non-foetid atrophic rhinitis (Seifert). A special organism is, according to these authors, not required. On the other hand, E. Frankel (1882) and Loewenberg (1885) discovered the bacillus mucosus and declared it to be the cause of the foetor. Hajek found bacilli re- sembling Friedlander's pneumo-bacilli. The atrophy was considered by Zaufal to be a congenital defect, but this has been contro- verted by Zuckerkandl, who, in the examination 1 Die Krankheiten der Nase, p. 189 (Berlin, 1894). of 252 young skulls, never found atrophy of the turbinated bones. Hopmann, however, up- holds Zaufal's theory, and supports it by observations on the antero-posterior shortness of the septum in ozccna, which, in his opinion, cannot be owing to shrinking but must be due to deficient growth. Zarniko and Bayer regard the disease as a tropho-neurosis of the nasal mucosa and the bony framework, from which the characteristic changes, metaplasia of the epithelium with cornification, superficial in- flammation with formation of crusts, occvir, and insist on the presence of a specific bacillus causing the foetor. The majority of authors, however, appear to hold the opinion that the atrophy is the result of a chronic inflammatory suppurative process, and assume that the atrophy is preceded by hypertrophy. In regard to the origin of the secretion, Michel first drew attention to the frequent implication of the accessory sinuses in ozsena, and maintained that the secretion always originated in one of these cavities. This has been controverted by—(1) the actual observa- tion of the formation of secretion under the eye of the observer (Gottstein), and (2) by the post- mortem examination of cases of ozasna, in which the accessory sinuses were found healthy. These observations are not accepted by Griinwald, who insists on the great i-arity of general suppuration of the nasal mucous mem- brane in adults, and explains the symptoms of ozsena by the presence of localised suppurations. He does not, however, limit these to the accessory sinuses, but also locates them in narrow meatuses and even in the pharyngeal and faucal tonsils. He therefore regards ozsena as a symptom of different localised suppurations. Stork, on the other hand, regards ozsena as an infective disease, gonorrha^a or congenital syphilis, the latter occurring when the father is no longer suffering from active syphilis. Finally, Striibing and Abel have, within the last few years, made extensive bacteriological investigations on the bacillus mucosus, which they have distinguished from Friedlander's pneumo-bacillus. They claim to have found it constantly present in the secretion of genuine ozsena, and, per contra, always absent in the normal nose and in all other diseases. They also found it disappear as a case was cured, and maintain that it is inoculable from nose to nose, and from nose to pharynx and larynx. They consider the foetor as an inconstant symptom and the atrophy as not essential, the essential feature being the formation of a glairy, tenacious muco-purulent secretion. According to these authors, "ozsena is a peculiar inflammatory process with the formation of crusts, com- mencing usually in the nose, more rarely in the nasopharynx, caused by the presence of a bacillus. Catarrhal appearances then develop, at first with hypertrophy, afterwards with88 NOSE—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION atrophy. The latter occurs partly from pres- sure of the crusts, partly from inflammatory irritation by the poisonous products of the bacilli growing on the surface. The foetor is a symptom due to mixed infection, is not origin- ally in the secretion, but occurs easily from the bacilli of decomposition. The process can creep into all the accessory cavities, as well as into the nasopharynx, larynx, trachea, and the tubes, but it is not identical with accessory sinus suppuration. It may at the commencement remain for a long time without extending; when the process is fully developed in the nose the larynx is also generally affected with swell- ing or atrophy, redness, and formation of crusts. Loss of voice, amounting even to aphonia, dyspnoea, and cough may result from these crusts, which have a predilection for the sub- glottic space and the region below the anterior commissure. There is generally pharyngitis sicca. Dyscrasise are not necessary, although they may predispose to the disease; quite healthy individuals may be affected." None of these theories have yet met with general acceptance. Diagnosis.—Apart from foreign bodies, ulcers, and diseased bone, which are detected without difficulty by rhinoscopic examination, the point of chief importance is to distinguish the dis- ease from empyema of the accessory sinuses, especially of the maxillary antrum. Pi'ognosis.—A priori it would seem impossible in advanced cases to restore the wasted glands, ciliated epithelium, and vessels of the atrophic mucous membrane, and that therefore ozsena is incurable seems to be the experience of most observers. It is, however, a condition that, as long as it is confined to the nose, may with suitable treatment be made quite bearable, and deprived of its objectionable features. In the earlier stages a cure is more feasible, and in advanced age the disease is said to undergo spontaneous recovery. Treatment.—The treatment involves in the first place a thorough cleansing of the nasal cavities of crusts and discharge. This is accom- plished by the use of a Higginson's syringe (see above, p. 85), with a normal solution of common salt or a weak alkaline solution, to which a few drops of liq. pot. permang. may be added. Previous loosening of the crusts by the insertion of plugs of wool moistened with vaseline, or the use of a paroleine spray may be required (see above, p. 85). The crusts may at first have to be removed by the surgeon with forceps. Various antiseptics are then sprayed into the nose, such as a solution of hyd. perchlor. (strength 1 to 5000-1 to 2000). A saturated solution of acid, boracic, or a 10 or 20 per cent solution of menthol in paroleine, or other mild antiseptic, may be substituted. By this treatment, care- fully carried out by the patient twice, or, if necessary, three times a day, the formation of crusts and the occurrence of foetor can be kept in abeyance, and gradual improvement may in course of time result; but the patient must be particularly informed that he will have to continue the treatment regularly, probably for years, in order to keep himself in a state of comfort. It is important for the surgeon to see that the patient thoroughly understands the cleansing. An occasional application by the surgeon of a solution of argenti nit. (grs. 10-60 ad 5j.) on a wool mop to the whole of the interior of the nose seems to be of benefit. Other remedies have been recommended. Lis- terine is used as a spray by Lefferts, and syring- ing with a solution of aceto-tartarate of alu- minium (a small tea-spoonful of a 50 per cent solution in a pint of water) is recommended by M'Bride and Schaffer. Gottstein's method, which has not found much acceptance in this country, consists in inserting a large cotton-wool plvig into one nasal cavity, leaving it in for twenty- four hours, and then, after an interval of the same time, using a similar plug on the opposite side. Gottstein kept the plugs in at night, but other authors have modified the treatment by retaining the plugs (which must be firm and cigar-shaped) for a few hours during the daytime in each nostril. Vibratory massage of the turbinated bodies, light touching with the galvanic cautery, and applications of the constant current, have also their advocates, but I am not aware that they possess any special advantages. A method of treatment which has found several adherents is that of cupric-electrolysis. It was originally recommended by Jouslin and Cheval, and has been advocated by M'Bride and others. After thorough cocanisation of the nasal cavities, and removal of all crusts, a copper needle attached to the positive pole is inserted into the inferior or middle turbinated body, while a platinum or steel needle connected with the negative pole is plunged into the septum. A current of from 3-10 milliamperes is employed for about ten minutes. The operation is, if necessary, re- peated more than once on each side at intervals of a fortnight. When the nasopharynx is af- fected it requires, in addition to the cleansing, special applications made with a brush or spray. The anfEmia which often accompanies oziena must also receive attention. 6. Chronic Infective Diseases of the Nose Syphilis ....... 88 Tuberculosis . . . . . .89 Lupus ....... 90 Glanders ... . . 90 Leprosy 90 Rhinosderoma. . . ■ • .90 Henpuye or Goundu . . .91 Syphilis.—The nose may be attacked by syphilis in any stage of the disease. TheNOSE—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 89 primary chancre has been met with on the nasal mucosa; in such an unfortunate infection, of rare occurrence, the diagnosis would have to be made from a sarcoma. Under antisyphilitic treatment the chancre disappears, leaving a slight scar. In the secondary stage a general nasal catarrh may occur, often slight and liable to be overlooked. The lesions more commonly observed and causing greatest destruction, are those met with in the tertiary stage, and must be grouped amongst the later manifestations of this stage. They may be the result of infection or the outcome of a hereditary taint. The septum and the iloor of the nose are the parts firstly and mainly affected. It is highly important that the gummy tumour which pre- cedes the ulceration should not be overlooked; by its early detection and by antisyphilitic treatment being vigorously pushed, a consider- able amount of destruction may be averted. A gumma usually develops on the septum and near the floor of the nose, and may be situated far back. It is therefore necessary in a sus- pected case, when an examination of the anterior nares gives a negative result, to thoroughly investigate the posterior nares by rhinoscopy. A small gumma not uncommonly occurs in the region of the raphe on the roof of the mouth, which, on breaking down, may involve the floor of the nose, or it may be due to extension of the disease from the nose. By careful examination with a fine, flexible, and blunt-pointed probe a minute opening, at first not visible to the eye, may be found leading up to the floor of the septum, and in this way bare bone may be opportunely detected. An examination made in this way, through the mouth, has enabled the writer to detect syphi- litic disease of the nose at a time when the objective evidence in the nose itself was not sufficient to permit of a definite conclusion being arrived at, and at a time when the greatest amount of benefit could be gained by treatment. When syphilis attacks the septum, ulceration and perforation, as is well known, is of common occurrence, and can be distinguished, it is said, from that of a simple nature by the bone being involved. By extension of the morbid process the turbinated bodies may be destroyed and the accessory sinuses opened up. As the result of the contraction of the con- nective tissue, subsequent to the destruction of the nasal bones, the condition of so-called " saddle-back" nose appears: but it is the opinion of some—which opinion is shared by the writer — that this appearance may be occasioned by causes other than syphilis. Syphilis may attack and be localised in the nasopharynx, which further emphasises the importance of posterior rhinoscopy in these ■cases. A tertiary lesion localised in the naso- pharynx may lead to dangerous haemorrhage. Cases have been recorded in which, after the loss of a necrotic part of a cervical vertebra, fatal haemorrhage has occurred from the carotid and vertebral arteries. Mention must also be made of the inherited variety in infants, characterised by a catarrhal condition of the nasal mucosa, giving rise to snuffles, and seriously interfering with respiration and feeding. The diagnosis of nasal syphilis, as a rule, is not difiicult. Chronic glanders, with which it may be confused, is a rare disease, and tuber- culosis does not occasion so much destniction ; moreover, a bacterioscopic examination will generally eliminate any error in diagnosis. Lupus, in a certain group of cases, it is difficult to exclude, excepting by a course of antisyphilitic treatment. The treatment of the nasal condition is essentially that of the disease itself, and, as has already been mentioned, the remedies must be vigorously pushed. It is as well to give iodides in conjunction with mercurial treatment. The parts should be kept cleansed with anti- septic douches; and in infants, in order to keep the meatuses free, the passage of a soft tube may become necessary. In the tertiary lesions the separation of the resulting sequestra may be tedious and difficult, and it has been suggested that this may be overcome by boring the bone and loosening it with a hook, separation in this way being more readily obtained. The discomfort occasioned by a perforation through the roof of the mouth may be met with a plug, at first of soft material, such as cotton-wool, and after cicatri- cial contraction has taken place, with an arti- ficial plate; if after withdrawal of antispecific treatment no relapse takes place, operative closure of the perforation may be attempted. Tuberculosis.—The number of cases of tuber- culosis of the mucous membrane of the nose that have been so far recorded is very small. Primary infection may be set up with the finger, chronic catarrh and crusts contributing to form a suitable nidus; but nasal tuberculosis is visually associated with the disease in the lungs or other organs. It ultimately presents itself in the form of vilcer or tumour, the two often co-existing. The cartilaginous portion of the septum is the more usual seat of the disease, but it may also occur on the turbinate bodies. The tumour may be of sufficient size to com- pletely block the nostril. When an ulcer forms on the septum it is commonly indefinitely circular, of a greyish colour, and perhaps per- forating, haemorrhage readily taking place when an examination is made. The symptoms, as already mentioned, are mainly a tendency to haemorrhage, nasal ob- struction, and an increase of nasal secretion, which may become offensive ; but pain is rarely present. The diagnosis has to be made from lupus.NOSE—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 90 syphilis, glanders, and in children from chronic eczema. From lupus it can be clinically dis- associated by the absence of the characteristic growths in the skin. Lupus may extend to the mucous surface of the nose, and a differential diagnosis then becomes difficult. A bacterio- scopic examination will enable one to distinguish the ulceration from that occasioned by syphilis, glanders, and eczema. The tuberculous tumours may have to be differentiated from other tumours, such as sarcoma and fibroma, and it is important that the section made for this purpose should be cut through the deepest parts of the growth. Tuberculous disease of the nose does not materialh^ affect the prognosis of the general or pulmonai-y disease of which it is a part, in the way that tuberculous disease of the larynx adds to the gravity of a case. The treatment must be general, and the same as that adopted when tuberculosis affects other regions. The special treatment to be directed to the local lesion consists in removing the growth, curetting the ulcers, and treating them with lactic acid, after the method suggested by Krause in the treatment of tuberculosis of the larynx. Relapses occur, but it will probably be found, with increasing experience, that by means of tuberculin the disease can be made more amenable to treatment. Lupus.—Lupus has many points pathologi- cally in common with tubercle, and it is often with difficulty that it can be clinically dis- tinguished. Lupus is very seldom primary in the nose ; in a large majority of cases it is an extension from the integument adjacent to the anterior nares; the septum is commonly attacked early. On inspection the meatuses are usually found to be more or less obstructed by crusts; it is only after the removal of these the nature and extent of the disease can be made out. The nasal mucous membrane can then be seen studded with small nodules, usually discrete, at times ulcerating and coalescing. The diagnosis has to be made from syphilis—the latter runs a more rapid and destructive course, and responds to an antisyphilitic treatment. The disease may be associated with syphilis, and at times it is difficult to distinguish the two. Lupus runs a chronic course, and the treat- ment, as in the case of tuberculosis of the nose, must be general as well as local. Locally the nodules may be removed by means of galvano- cautery, curetted and treated with lactic acid. Tuberculin may certainly be tried, for some of the patients treated with it have been perma- nently benefited. Glanders.—This disease is occasionally met with affecting the nose in a chronic or an acute form. In some cases of glanders the nasal mucous membrane is secondarily infected, and thence inflammatory swellings may spread to the tissues of the face. Symptoms of rapid pyaemia supervene, and death commonly ensues in the course of two or three weeks. In the chronic form the disease may last for months, and recovery then occur; but it usually takes on the characters of the acute form with a rapidly fatal result. Any doubts about the diagnosis can be set at rest by microscopic examination revealing the presence of the glanders bacillus discovered by Loffler and Schutz in 1882. An absolute diagnosis can only be made by means of cultures and animal experiments. Leprosy.—Leprosy attacks the mucous mem- brane of the nose, and is characterised by ulceration and destruction of the bony parts. A diagnosis can be arrived at by means of a bacterioscopic examination; treatment can only be symptomatic, and directed towards the re- moval of the crusts and cleansing of the parts. Rhinoscleroma.—Rhinoscleroma is a very rare disease, and is scarcely ever met with in this country. The majority of cases that have been reported have been in the south-east of Eiirope; a few in Central America, Egypt, and India. The disease belongs to the group of infective granulomata, and is characterised by nodular thickenings in the mucous membrane of the nose and the adjacent skin. They also occur in the pharynx, larynx, and the upper part of the trachea. In the nose it is prone to attack the cartilaginous part, and the commencement of the bony part of the nasal cavity and choanse. The symptoms to which the disease gives rise are, in addition to a certain amount of deformity, a feeling of stiffness and discomfort about the integument occasioned by the infiltration of the tissues. The nodules show no tendency to break down or to ulcerate. The disease is slowly progressive, and the obstruction which it causes- may require operative treatment. The morbid process is occasioned by a bacillus,, first described by Frisch. The cells in the gramdation tissue forming the nodules have peculiar characteristics, and present an appear- ance of degeneration. The bacilli lie within these cells, but they have been observed lying free in the lymphatic spaces around. They are short, oval rods with capsides, and closely re- semble Friedliinder's pneumo-bacillus ; they do not stain by Gram's method. Another organism has been described, but experimental inoculation has done but little to dispel the doubts that have arisen on the subject. Rhinoscleroma is a slow, progressive disease, and treatment has not demonstrated its cura- bility. Inunctions of lanolin containing 1 per cent of corrosive sublimate have been re- commended and attended with some success. Resolution and disappearance of the condition has been recorded after an attack of typhus fever.NOSE—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 91 The obstruction in the nostrils can be over- come by mechanical and surgical measures. Henpuye.—The peculiar nature of this disease, and the fact that very little was known as to its nature, led Dr. Albert J. Chalmers to make the inquiries which were embodied in a report,^ and it is upon this report that the following account is based:— Henpuye, or dog-nose, is a disease frequently met with in the Gold Coast Colony, and in certain portions of its hinterland. The hideous deformity of the face which it causes is very striking to anyone who has lived in this part of West Africa. It is also known on the French Ivory Coast under the name of " goundu" or "anakhre," but "henpuye" is the native name (Appolonian) for the disease on the Gold Coast. Henpuye starts in a native of West Africa during, or soon after an attack of yaws, in which there is a history of the nasal mucous membrane being attacked, as a small bony swelling sym- metrically placed on either side of the nose. This swelling, which is generally oval, with the long axis directed downwards and outwards, is attached to the nasal bones, the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and also to the superior maxilla in the more advanced cases. It is pro- duced by the deposition of new bone under the periosteum on the external aspect of these bones, and grows slowly in all directions. It in no way affects the mouth or the orbital or nasal cavities in any case which the author has seen, and the nasal ducts are quite unaffected. Rarely the growth is asymmetrical, being situated only on one side of the nose. Pain in the nose, with the presence of a sore in that organ, are the symptoms complained of at the commencement of the disease ; later, headache is sometimes felt, and pain in the swelling during wet weather. As the growth becomes larger it seriously inter- feres with the sight by growing up in front of the eyes, and even hiding them, but it has not been seen to cause destruction of the eyeball. The growths may remain quite small, or may grow to be large lumps ; no case has been re- ported in which they break down or ulcerate. As regards the morbid anatomy, the perios- teum strips off readily, and under this is a thin shell of compact bone which appears somewhat rigid on the side toward the periosteum. The rest of the tumour consists of cancellous bone. The whole swelling cuts readily with bone- forceps, and consists of quite soft bone. On making microscopical preparations of the growths there were signs of ossification in membrane pro- ceeding under the periosteum, and the rest appeared like ordinary wide-meshed cancellous bone. The whole process appeared to be that of a slow " osteoplastic periostitis." Two views on the etiology of this disease have been brought forward up to the present time, ^ Report on "Henpuye" in the Gold Coast Colony: Lancet, January 6, 1900. Albert J. Chalmers. viz. (1) that the swellings are of a racial char- acter, and (2) that the process is started by the larva of some insect. With regard to the first, the disease is found in Ashantis, Grunshis, Fantees, Ahantas, the Ga people, etc., races quite different from one another, so that this view cannot be entertained. As to the second, there is no evidence which would support the idea that the disease was started by a larva. On the other hand, there is always the history of yaws, and of the tumour starting during the attack of yaws, i.e. during the period of eruption, or soon after. Then, again, the patients com- plain of pain in the nose, with in some cases distinct history of a sore, and sometimes dis- charge preceding the swelling. This might be due to some irritation or ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane by the yaws. 7. Postnasal Adenoid Growths Postnasal Growths— Etiology 91 Symptomatology .... 93 Prognosis ..... 94 Treatment ..... 95 Sufficient time has elapsed since Meyer of Copenhagen, in 1868, firet described^ the clinical importance of postnasal obstruction to enable us to estimate the true importance of the subject. During a period of twenty years, which represents the history of the subject in this country, the profession, sceptical in the first place, thanks to the exaggerations of the specialist, has grown of late over-enthusiastic for the removal of the so-called adenoid growths of the postnasal space ; while the general pub- lic have become so desirous that the benefit they see from these operations should be ex- tended to all children alike, that they are often disappointed when assured that no operation is required in this or that individual case. The operation for the removal of adenoids is so universally advocated now in suitable cases that it is the most frequent of all operations, and in another twenty-five years, it is to be hoped, every general practitioner in the country will consider its skilful performance as one of the first requirements in the family-doctor, and yet will not fall into the present danger of considering that every child would be the better for the operation. Indeed, owing to such ex- cess of zeal, we already see indications of the falling into disrepute of a procedure which is probably doing much in raising the general standard of health in the population. Accumulated experience has added but little to our knowledge of the etiology of the disease. We are all persuaded now that it is no new development or vicious manifestation of a de- generate age. Nevertheless the affection is more commonly observed in those individuals 1 Trans. Mcd.-Chir. Soc, 1870, vol. Iviii. p. 191.NOSE—POSTNASAL ADENOID GROWTHS 92 who have the V-shaped alveolar arch with its modifications. This narrow upper jaw is asso- ciated, according to the degree of elevation of the hard palate, with encroachment on the nasal fossce in the form of deviations and thickenings of the septum. No doubt such contraction of the superior maxilla, together with the short upper lip, is an undesirable variation due to civilisation ; for such variations from the strictly normal type are not encountered among ab- original races, nor are they so frequently found among the lower orders as among the highly educated and luxurious. Yet adenoids are by no means confined to individuals presenting such peculiarities, though I suspect that the hypertrophy is invariably fovmd in children presenting the narrow upper jaw. We have doubtless predisposing factors, which may be either inherited or acquired, apai't from the narrow upper jaw which is emphatically an inheritable feature; among such is what used to be called the strumous diathesis. Precisely the relation which adenoids bear to a tuber- culous predisposition has not been determined, although such a relation would appear to exist, when we remember that enlarged cer- vical glands are almost invariably present in cases of adenoids, and that the point at which we are to determine whether such glandular enlargements are to be considered as tuber- culous or merely as a sympathetic hyper- trophy is impossible of clinical definition. Still there can be no doubt whatever that hyper- trophy both of the postnasal lymphoid tissue and of the cervical glands not infrequently precedes the infection of the hypertrophied tissue with the tubercle. Nor must we forget the recent tendency to consider the postnasal adenoids as a definite nidus in which the tubercle bacilli find a resting-place and fertile soil for their cultivation (Sims Woodhead).^ Yet, in spite of such predisposing factors, most cases are developed as the result of acquired proclivities. Some babies are no doubt born with adenoids—at any rate, if we may so judge from the fact that often where we find the growths gravely obstructing the breathing in infants, we are told that the little patient has snored since birth; and this in cases where there is no definite evidence of either of the predisposing factors mentioned : indeed, so far as the contracted superior maxilla is concerned, we are compelled to admit that this is never observed in infancy. Congenital syphilis is supposed in certain quarters to be a very important factor; if this is so, we must admit that it is extraordinarily rare to find in the subjects of adenoids other evidence of the con- tamination. Yet I have myself observed a particular virulence in the growths and their tendency to recurrence in children where I have known the father to be syphilitic, and ' Lancet, 1894, vol. ii. p. 957. although his children were supposed to have escaped altogether the congenital disease. Among the more immediate causes stand influenza, measles, and whooping-cough as more often originating adenoids than the other acute exanthemata. The increasing prevalence of these three diseases of late years is doubt- less the main reason why adenoid operations have become increasingly imperative; and the general practitioner, who is the most com- petent to judge upon such a point, and whose eyes have been pretty generally alive to the clinical facts of adenoids for ten years at least, generally maintains the increasing prevalence of buccal respiration and snoring together with the liability to contract colds upon the slightest provocation. This tendency to cold-taking often appears to be an important factor; although, seeing that this is altogether the commonest symptom induced by the growths, it is difficult to separate cause from effect. But whatever view we may favour as to the probable cause of adenoids, whether local or constitutional, we must ever bear in mind that, so far as the pathologists have at present in- formed us, it is impossible to determine at what precise point of enlargement this lymphoid tissue which underlies so thickly the mucous membrane of the postnasal wall is to be con- sidered as patliological. It may even become a question as to whether the growths in them- selves can be pronounced as morbid, and whether they have any importance beyond the mechanical obstruction. Such, at any rate, is the present tendency of belief, although some observers appear to consider the adenoids as a direct invitation to the contraction of catarrhs in general, whether nasal, bronchial, or gastric. My own inclination is to regard the common symptom of excessive cold-taking as due to the obstruction, seeing that we find the same tendency in every form of nasal stenosis, whether polypus, enlarged inferior turbinals, or mere deviations of the septum. And we may state that it is the restoration of the normal conditions of ventilation which is responsible for the cure of the tendency to take cold in all cases of nasal obstruction. Possibly the actual overheating of the nasal fossae, when deprived of the cooling, inspired air-current, may cause hypertrophy of the lymphoid tissue ; for recent experiments on the physiology of the nose indicate that the amount of heat taken up from the mucous membrane is enormous.^ Indeed, roughly speaking, it may be asserted that however cold the external atmosphere, the inspired current of air is raised to the tempera- ture of the blood before i-eaching the pharynx. That overheating causes overgrowth of the Ij^mphoid tissue is a more likely explanation, when we remember that nasal catarrh in one 1 Vide author's On the Respiratory Functions of the Nose (1889, p. 25).NOSE—POSTNASAL ADENOID GROWTHS 93 form or other generally precedes the first development of symptoms of adenoids. It is, moreover, by no means uncommon to find some other form of nasal stenosis in the anterior nares, such as vascular engorgement of the inferior turbinals, or, in other children, mal- formations of the septum. Further, it is possible that where there has been anterior obstruction antecedent to the development of the adenoids, the abnormally low inspiratory pressure behind the point of narrowing, which is necessary in order that the pressure in front may be sufficient to force the air-current through the constricted channel, accounts for an overfilling of the capillaries of the mucous membrane lining the partial vacuum, and thus for hypernutrition of the lymphoid tissue. For, as I shall presently show, even when there is a grave degree of nasal obstruction, patients, and more especially very young children, possess the instinct of nose-breathing as distin- guished from buccal so strongly that they persist in its practice in spite of the great effort necessitated, and in spite even of insufficiency in the oxygen-supply. So much for the etiology of the aff"ection. When we arrive at a consideration of the symptoms we are surprised, considering their definite nature, and the fact that the whole parental public is now acquainted with the more important among them, that it is necessary to devote so much space to their dis- cussion. Yet although they are so definite and suggestive, there is not one that can be altogether relied upon in diagnosis; indeed, even an objective examination, whether by post- rhinal inspection or by palpation, cannot alto- gether be trusted in determining the necessity for operation, as will presently be explained. Briefly we may assert, that although for an accurate diagnosis objective examination may be essential, it is nevertheless equally im- portant, in deciding whether necessity exist for operative interference, that we do not rely so much upon such examination as upon the symptoms. And this somewhat paradoxical claim will be immediately substantiated. The symptom to which the imperfectly in- formed mostly trust in determining the presence of adenoids is, doubtless, buccal respiration. Yet it must be remembered that this is alto- gether an acquired habit, and is not usually found in infants ; while not infrequently children as old as four years still, during waking as well as sleep, adopt nose-breathing, in spite of grave degree of posterior or anterior nasal stenosis. Indeed, the custom is with nearly all children, and not infrequently with adults, to adopt nose-breathing chiefly, often entirely, during sleep in spite of the impossibility of sustaining free respiration through the nostrils.^ And we 1 Vide Postnasal Orowths. By C. A. Parker, 1894, p. 35. must be careful not to assume that because the lower jaw is dropped, or the lips widely open, that the patient is therefore breathing through the mouth. In young infants this is strikingly not the case, as can easily be verified by placing a morsel of down in front alternately of mouth and nostrils. Many children, after the removal of all obstruction, still carry the lips apart and the jaw dropped ; yet it will be found that, during sleep at any rate, they are breath- ing entirely through the nose. The determina- tion of the point while a child is awake is obviously more difficult. And even before operation, and while the child is snoring loudly, it will be generally found that respiration is not conducted, as would appear, through the mouth. One could hardly understand, if these children habitually breathed through the mouth, why they should suffer from such definite proofs of insufficient aeration. A fre- quent observation among the parents of these cases is that they recover from their ansemia and tendency to cold-taking whenever they are at the seaside, but that they immediately lose all they have gained from the freer supply of air in such localities on returning to town life, and immediately begin their old habits of taking cold upon the least provocation. The only possible explanation lies in the supposition that, in spite of buccal respiration, they fail to obtain a free supply of air. Consequently, we shall not be much surprised at learning that very young children, more especially under two years of age, who have not yet learned to supplement the obstructed nasal respiration with buccal breathing, frequently keep the mouth habitually closed in spite of very grave postnasal obstruc- tion. And consequently, once more, we shall not be surprised to discover that the younger the patient the greater the gravity of the symptoms for a given degree of nasal stenosis. In older children, who have learned the advantage of mouth-breathing, we more often find grave degrees of nasal obstruction without there being any material evidence of defective nutrition; while I am tolerably convinced, for reasons to which I shall refer again, that in older children the mischief to the general nutrition may be less in cases where the obstruction is sufficient to enforce the entire adoption of mouth-breathing. From a con- sideration of such facts the absurdity will at once be apparent of the argument adduced in quarters where one would have looked for more wisdom, that if only children were compelled to breathe through the nose their adenoids would spontaneously disappear ! I can conceive of no greater ignorance than to use any moral or mechanical persuasion to compel children to nose-breathing, seeing that the instinct to adopt it is paramount, provided a sufficient supply of air can be secured. Better must it be for them to breathe through the mouth, and thus breathe94 NOSE—POSTNASAL ADENOID GROWTHS easily, in spite of the dangers resulting from perpetual irritation of their larynx and bronchial -and Eustachian tubes, than to deprive the tissues of sufficient nutriment. The most striking consequence of this breath- ing through a narrowed nose is the malformation •of the thoracic walls so commonly observed in these patients. Formerly they were all attri- buted to rickets, although enlarged tonsils were assumed, before the discovery of adenoids, to have some part in the faulty expansion of the chest-walls. Pigeon-breast is always acquired, and is essentially mechanical. If we admit that nasal respiration is still practised in spite of grave stenosis of the nose-passages, it follows inevitably that the difference between the intra- thoracic atmospheric pressure during inspiration and the external pressure must be greater than obtains where the access to the thorax is not obstructed, and that consequently the external atmospheric pressure weighing upon the chest- walls will lead to their collapse in greater or less degree. This is observed in the most characteristic manner at the anterior aspect of the lower ribs and costal cartilages, which present an appearance of flattening or actual concaving of the surface. Nor do I think that it is ever observed in cases where there is no nasal obstruction, although it is doubtless more conspicuous where there is rickets. On the other hand, we sometimes see in cases of adenoids a depression of the sternum in various degrees ; but I am convinced that this is seen sometimes where it cannot be supposed that the stenosis is sufficient to account for it. But an appreciation of the lateral collapse of the walls, I maintain, is of the utmost importance as an objective indication of the degree to which the patient has actually suffered from the adenoids; for it is evidence of the degree of imperfection in the supply of air. And, given the fact of the existence of adenoids, I consider an exami- nation of the thorax of greater moment in determining the need for operation than even a digital palpation of the postnasal space, seeing that even when the amount of adenoids is enormous some patients may habitually adopt mouth-breathing, and thus escape the penalty of defective air-supply. In such cases operation may not be so imperative from the point of view of general health, although the local harm may be correspondingly more serious. Snoring is another symptom upon which the laity chiefly rely for diagnosis, and not in- frequently it is argued that when tliis indica- tion is absent there can be no adenoid growths. But the symptom is no more to be relied upon than buccal respiration, although I am prepared to affirm that snoring is never pronounced in children without there being nasal stenosis of one form or other to account for it. The remaining symptom of common occur- rence in adenoids is the great tendency to contract colds, whether in the nose, throat, bronchial tubes, or, according to Dr. Eustace Smith, in the stomach. And as the irritation of the bronchial tubes sometimes results from nasal obstruction, whether as a direct conse- quence of the buccal respiration, or whether in some more subtle manner with which we are not fully acquainted, we shall not be surprised to learn that asthma must be reckoned among the symptoms of adenoids, nor to learn that the trouble not infrequently disappears entirely after operation. Various other nervous symptoms are often attributable to nasal obstruction in children, the commonest among which is laryngismus stridulus. Dr. Eustace Smith ^ has recently assured us that the malady in infants is in- variably caused by adenoids; and although my experience of the general affections of child- hood is too limited to allow me to corroborate such distinguished opinion, I am yet able to affirm that I have never removed adenoids in an infant with the direct object of curing laryngismus without doing so; and that in the most unequivocal manner. Correspondingly general convulsions, if not epilepsy, are occa- sionally, though rarely, caused by adenoids and cured by operation. Chorea, nocturnal incontinence of urine, nightmare, sleep-walking, are also not seldom cured by the removal of nasal obstructions. Yet I think all such affec- tions must be considered as the consequence of the nasal obstruction rather than of adenoids in particular, for the results of operative treat- ment are quite as striking in many cases of nasal obstruction in adults, although perhaps the improvement in general health is not quite so rapidly observed. The German and American schools have made much of the symptom now commonly known as aprosexia (from d priv. and irpoa-exeiv, to attend (Guye)). By the term is signified a definite lack of the faculty of application to their studies in the little patients, although it does not in- dicate any actual lack of mental ability. I am not persuaded that this is in any way different from what we find in any child in whom the general health has undergone deterioration; but there can be no question that after opera- tion these children improve remarkably in the ease with which they learn, pari passit, indeed, with the improvement in general nutrition. The prognosis in these cases could hardly be more satisfactory, except perhaps for the patients who have attained adult life, and in whom the mischief wrought by the long continued ob- struction has become irremediable. Yet even in patients advanced to middle life, one is justified in holding out hope of definite im- provement, especially if the main complaint is ' "Adenoid Growths in Children," Lancet, May 25, 1895.NOSE-POSTNASAL ADENOID GEOWTHS 95 lither deafness due to Eustachian catarrh, or i habit of constant cold-taking. Nevertheless, !;eneraUy speaking, one lays it down as a prog- lostic rule that the older the patient beyond dxteen years, the more guarded should be the prognosis, although, whatever the patient's age, ve are justified, provided the symptoms are lefinitely associated with nasal obstruction, in irging operation. In defining a prognosis, lowever, care must be taken, where the main jonsideration is the deafness, not to assume ;hat, because the patient is deaf and there is a nass of adenoids, the former must be caused 3y the latter. Labyrinthine deafness is by 10 means rare in children with and without idenoids, and there should be no difficulty in ietermining the precise nature of the deafness 'rom inspection of the membranes before giving I prognosis. In the neuroses also, whether isthma, laryngismus, chorea, or convulsions, ;he prognosis must be guarded, although in Dad degrees of obstruction we may be hopeful )f securing remarkable results. The treatment resolves itself into the question )f operation and a brief inquiry as to the value jf local remedies. To answer the latter first, I 2iay affirm, after a somewhat extended trial of istringents, that they are absolutely useless, 3xcept in the case of very recent and rapid developments of the obstruction, such as one sometimes sees after measles, whooping-cough, 3tc. In such instances we must, I think, as- sume that we are dealing with a condition comparable to a subacute tonsillitis, and may expect as much good from the application of astringents as in the latter case. But the astringent employed must be weak, and there is nothing better than glycerine of tannic acid, fifteen or twenty drops to the ounce of water. It should be injected along the inferior meatus, care being taken that it is not directed into the middle passage, which is curiously intolerant of all applications of an astringent nature. But where the history of the symptoms justifies the supposition that the disease has been in exist- ence for over a twelvemonth, I do not think that the treatment is of any use ; while in very small patients the local applications may cause so miich distress that an operation is an alto- gether less formidable proceeding. And indeed the operation skilfully performed is so simple a matter, causes so little discomfort, and invites such infinitesimally small risks, that one is justified in thinking that in any case of doubt as to whether or no an operation is necessary, he ought to decide in its favour. The safety of the operation mainly depends upon the administration of the anaesthetic; and much argument has been used as to the rela- tive merits of chloroform, gas, ether, and of their various admixtures. Nitrous oxide is in high favour at the present moment in certain quarters; and in adults, where there is no tendency to recurrence of the growths and perfect removal is less essential, I often employ it. And in the newer methods of continuous administration, or of combining it with oxygen, the operator may, by a clever angesthetist, be afforded all the time that he requires. But the objection to its general use lies in this fact that the degree of anaesthesia is too profound, the pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes annulled, and that consequently the risks of blood, and still more of portions of the growth, especially when the curette is used, finding their way into the glottis, are considerably increased. To ether the same and other objections apply, viz., that it is necessary to operate with a deeper degree of anaesthesia than is desirable, while the bleed- ing is undoubtedly, as also with gas, greater than with chloroform, and the subsequent misery is far in excess of that due to either chloroform or its admixtures. Consequently I consider that chloroform, either alone or mixed with ether or alcohol, or both, according to the fancy and experience of the administrator, is altogether the most perfect ansesthetic for adenoid operations : (i.) because of the super- ficial degree of anaesthesia of which it permits, (ii.) because of the less haemorrhage, and (iii.) because of the minimum subsequent misery. If chloroform be the anaesthetic chosen, the patient must lie fiat on a table, the head being neither raised nor lowered—though it was the general custom a few years ago to allow the head to hang over the back of the table, as if to lessen the risk of the blood entering the larynx. But the objection to the latter position lies in the increased venous engorgement and conse- quent haemorrhage, not to mention the danger of blood entering the Eustachian tubes and ex- citing a suppurative otitis media. On the con- trary, if the patient is lying flat on a table he can be turned on the side in a moment, and the blood allowed to flow from the mouth and nose ; while, should the haemorrhage be profuse, the operation can be completed on the side. Usually it is necessary to cut one or both tonsils at the same time, the practice of making a separate operation of tonsillotomy having no plaiisible excuse. The gag should be held at first in the right side of the mouth by the anaes- thetist, and the left tonsil removed with a spade tonsillotome ; the gag is then reversed and the other tonsil removed. There is good reason for preferring a relatively blunt instrument, partly because the haemorrhage is less when the amount of pressure used to thnist the blade through the tissues is greater, and partly because it holds the severed structure more securely. Next the surgeon, still standing on the right side of the patient, thrusts the forefinger of the left hand into the postnasal space with the palm upwards, followed by the forceps or curette, as the case may be, held in the right. If the forceps are used—and they have the advantage of bringingNOSE—POSTNASAL 96 ADENOID GROWTHS the growths away, instead of merely sweeping them into the pharynx, and thus lessen the risk of their slipping into the larynx—they are directed to each piece of the growth before it is pulled out, and should never be allowed to seize anything unless so felt with the iinger. This provision is the more important seeing that it is by no means an unknown accident for a portion of the Eustachian tube, or a splinter of the vomer, to be torn out. And it is quite conceivable that some of the untoward events, of which one has heard now and again, have been due to such rough handling of what may be a very mischievous instrument. So that, in spite of the superiority of the forceps, I consider that in the hands of one inexpert the curette is the safer instrument. Having re- moved all the larger portions with forceps, and detached them from the instrument by dipping- it into some antiseptic solution, care moreover being taken not to overlook the presence of the growths in Rosenmtiller's fossae behind the Eustachian tubes, as well as remembering the possibility of thrusting large pendulous growths before the finger or instrument into the posterior choanee and thus allowing them to escape removal, the posterior wall of the postnasal cavity may be smoothed down with the curette as a final procedure. Yet even after the use of this, it is well to examine the whole region very carefully with the finger to ascer- tain that the removal has been completed satisfactorily. The whole operation should not take more than two or three minutes, and is frequently done in less, even where tonsils have to be cut, and the mass of growth enormous. The main difficulty and anxiety is the hsemorrhage ; one may state that but as a rule the amount of blood lost lies in direct proportion to the length of time occupied, and that the bleeding never ceases until the operation is finished. And so rarely need anxiety be felt on this score, that one is perhaps apt to forget the possibility of having to adopt any measures for the mitiga- tion of the bleeding. Occasionally it proves necessary to turn the patient on the side before the operation is completed, and even to finish it in that position; and now and again one likes to sponge the patient's forehead with ice-water, or drop small portions of ice into the nostrils, so that they may find their way into the post- nasal space. This is probably more effectual than allowing the patient to suck ice, as the act depends upon exhausting the air from the buccal cavity, whicli in its turn would probably favour the flow of blood from the open vessels. But out of over five thousand cases of adenoids upon which I have operated, I have never once had to plug the postnasal space for hfemor- rhage, though on one or two occasions I have feared it might become necessary. When the tonsils bleed more than I like I apply a styptic paste, which I have found very efficacious. It consists of equal parts of tannic and gallic acids and powdered matico leaves, worked into tlie consistence of a pill-mass with glycei-ine. A piece of this paste, the size of a filbert or less, can readily be held in the first two fingers of either hand, and rubbed into the bleeding tonsil. In no other way can an astringent be properly applied, the painting or rubbing on with brush or pledget of cotton-wool of a solution of per- chloride of iron being altogether futile in my experience, and very disgusting to the patient. Sponging is seldom needed during the opera- tion, unless it is found, after removing one or both tonsils, that the patient is not sufficiently anaesthetised to proceed without the exhibition of more chloroform. Should it prove desirable to swab out the pharynx, it is best done with as large a sponge as can be easily thrust into the pharynx with the forefinger, as by so doing more of the accumulated fluid is swept out, and there is less risk of contusion than when hold- ing a small sponge on a holder. Indeed, it is only when overmuch sponging is employed, perhaps by a nervous and over-zealous anaes- thetist, that real soreness of the throat is com- plained of afterwards. And where the bleeding is severe, and we are inclined to stop in the process of removing the adenoids until it is arrested, we must remember that the oppor- tunity of spontaneous cessation lies in com- pletion of the operation. We may consequently affirm that the more profuse the haemorrhage the greater the necessity for a speedy operation. But besides the fact that the amount of blood lost is in direct proportion to the length of time occupied over the operation, there are two other, and quite as strong, reasons for expedition. The first is found in the risk of blood finding- its way into the Eustachian tubes and middle ears, and by its retention inducing an otorrhoea and perforation of the tympanic membrane, and the second lies in the increased risk of a local or general sepsis. For doubtless the more the wounded parts are handled or bruised, the less becomes their power of resistance, and the greater the liability to infection; while the longer the nasopharyngeal cavity is kept full of blood, the greater the risk of its entering the Eustachian tubes. As a matter of fact, rise of temperature is an event of the rarest even when, as sometimes happens, one operates under septic conditions in the neighbourhood, such as otorrhoea, or a chronic follicular tonsillitis. Indeed, although 1 have not infrequently had to operate under such disadvantages, I do not remember that I have ever noticed a rise in temperature that could be traced to such direct cause. Nevertheless everything should be done to secure as clean a condition of the environment as possible. A discharge from the ear should be washed outADENOID GROWTHS 97 NOSE—POSTNASAL beforehand, allowing some solution of l-in-40 carbolic acid to instil into the tympanum through the external auditory meatus for half an hour before the operation; but when there is follicular disease of the tonsils it is useless to attempt disinfection. At the same time, it must be admitted that there is probably considerable risk after these and all operations on the throat and nose of the patient's contracting any infectious disease, the organisms of which are in the atmosphere in- haled by the patient. Scarlet fever appears to be readily contracted, the rash appearing twenty-four hours after the operation. This tallies with the observation made by Paget ^ as regards the rapidity of development of scarlet fever after general operations. Influenza ap- pears to be quickly picked up after operations on throat or nose, and doubtless other con- tagious diseases would be as easily caught. Therefore I think that the greatest care should be taken to protect the patient from such oossibilities; and I now make it a rule when aatients come from the country for operation, :o refuse to do it in lodgings or hotel, seeing ;hat one can never be sure who may have occupied the rooms previously; and I insist on lis coming into a nursing home of the sanitary jonditions of which one is assured. As in all surgical procedures, the safety of any operation iepends directly upon the care with which the 'isks can be obviated; and I think this one of ivoiding all possible sources of infection of ;onsiderable importance. And this conclusion s based not upon theoretical considerations, but ipon definite experiences. But while it is, of course, impossible to secure isepsis at the time of the operation, or to imploy antiseptics to such extent as to justify ;he belief that they would offer any sort of ;afeguard, every effort must be made to iecure perfect cleanliness of hands, instruments, ind sponges. The latter should be kept ilways soaking in l-in-20 carbolic lotion, and ihould be taken out of the fluid only im- nediately before operation. Sufficient number )f them should be available to obviate the lecessity of washing them during the operation, ^'or my own part I seldom use more than two )r three, frequently none at all, though occa- lionally the hsemorrhage may be so profuse that I dozen or more may be needed. The instru- nents should be soaked in the same carbolic lolution for fifteen minutes before the operation, )articular care being taken with the tonsillotomes o secure soap and water cleanliness beforehand, eeing that their complication of parts may ■ender them easy sources of infection. Little or no subsequent treatment is necessary, )eyond, if the breath be foetid, washing the interior nares with a weak boric lotion. Heal- ng is usually completed in about ten days, and 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays (1875, p. 349 et seq.). VOL. VII until this is ensured, the use of the Politzer bag is contraindicated. 8. Nasal Neuroses Anosmia ....... 97 Hyperosmia, etc. ..... 98 Neuroses of Common Sensations and Vasomotor Neuroses . . .98 The nervous supply to the nasal passages subserves several important functions, chiefly those of olfaction, common sensation, and blood- supply ; and inasmuch as many physiological reflex phenomena depend on the integrity of this richly innervated territory, it follows that nasal neuroses are both frequent in occurrence and sometimes widespread in origin and effect. Neuroses of Olfaction Anosmia. — For the normal perception of odours it is essential (1) that the odoriferous particles should be able to reach the small area of the nasal mucosa containing the olfactory cells occupying the roof of the olfactory fissure and adjacent portions of the outer wall of the septum; (2) that the mucous membrane should be in a moist and normal state ; (3) and that the olfactory nerve tract within the cranium be in a normal receptive condition. Hence anosmia may arise (1) from mechanical obstruc- tion to nasal respiration, such as the presence of polypi or other new formations, collections of inspissated mucus, etc.; or (2) from atrophic or other morbid conditions of the olfactory mucous membrane; or (3) from pathological conditions in the region of the olfactory bulb, frontal lobes of the cerebi'um, or the cortical centres for olfaction. It is convenient for clinical purposes to divide cases of anosmia into two classes, as suggested by Zwaardemaker and Schmidt, viz. : Respira- tory anosmia, including those cases due to mechanical causes; and Essential anosmia, com- prising those cases in which the olfactory nerve tract is the seat of lesion. Instances of respiratory anosmia are those due to inflamma tory changes, as in acute rhinitis, or to nasal obstruction from other causes, e.g. mucous polypi or other new formation, deflected septum, collections of secretion, rhinopharyngeal growths, blocking the choanse narium; while of the second group, essential anosmia, we may recall those cases due to the tearing through of the olfactory filaments in the cribriform plate as the result of a blow or jar (Ogle, Legg), neuritis of the olfactory nerves due to influenza, syphilis, etc.; specific irritation, as in those cases ascribed to tobacco-smoke (Parker), to lead (Grant), or to malarial poisoning (Raynaud) ; of the many intracranial causes it is well to remember that congenital absence or other anomalies of the olfactory lobes or nerve fila- ments have been found, and that anosmia has 7NOSE—NASAL NEUUOSES 98 been observed in cases of tabes dorsalis (Althaus); general paralysis of the insane, in meningitis, abscess, tumours, syphilis, etc. Again, functional anosmia has been associated with other phenomena of hysteria. Moreover, reflex anosmia has been observed following removal of both ovaries. The symptoms complained of are inability to perceive odours of flowers, and loss of taste, for the perception of flavours in food and drink depends on the smell. The loss of smell may be partial or complete; it may affect both nasal passages, or it may be unilateral (hemi- anosmia). In testing the sense of smell it is necessary to use some non-irritating odoriferous substance, such as musk, otto of roses, or vanilla. Irritant vapours, such as ammonia, may be recognised by a patient suffering from anosmia, owing to its stimulating effect for nerves of common sensation as distinguished from the olfactory nerves. Hyperosmia, or increased sensitiveness to smell, is sometimes observed in hysteria, neur- asthenia, and hypochondriasis; it may also re- sult from irritation of the olfactory lobes from various causes. Paros7iiia, perversion of the olfactory sense with subjective perception of imaginary odours, is always a central nerve affection. It generally occurs after influenza, and has been noticed in hysterical patients, epileptics, and in insanity. Cacosniia, the perception of a bad odour, is generally due to the existence of some disease of the nasal passages or accessory sinuses, or to the presence of a foreign body, but more rarely it is subjective and due to disorder of the olfactory nerve tract. The prognosis in olfactory neuroses depends on the nature of the lesion and the length of time that the loss of power of olfaction has existed. When the outcome of some intranasal disease which is amenable to treatment, the prospect of the functional restoration of the sense of smell is favourable; cases are on record where such restoration has occurred after many years' anosmia, though Morell Mackenzie con- sidered that anosmia which had persisted for two years or more was beyond recovery. When due to attacks of influenza recovery is possible, notwithstanding that the loss of smell is complete and lasting for many months; parosmia and partial anosmia in the acute stages of influenza, or immediately following the febrile attack, usually disappears after a few weeks. In all such cases it should be remem- bered that nasal accessory sinus disease fre- quently supervenes on influenza, and that per- version of the sense of smell is generally a notable and sometimes the only symptom noticed by the patient in latent "sinusitis." Hysterical anosmia would be associated with other hysterical stigmata, while anosmia which can be traced to tumours or other organic lesions of the central nervous system, or to commencing insanity, becomes a minor feature in a grave and often irremediable disease. Treatment. — In cases of purely "nervous" origin, and in those due to intranasal disease, but persisting after such causal lesions have been removed, the exhibition of arsenic and strychnine, combined with local galvanisation and local submucous injections of strychnine, are the means which afford the best hopes of success in my experience. It is generally neces- sary that the treatment should be continued for a considerable period. Neuroses of Common Sensation and Vasomotor Neuroses The physiological reflexes of the nasal passages, e.g. sneezing, lachrymation, and rhinorrhoea, due sometimes to bright light, sometimes to the stimulation of the nasal mucosa, sufficiently indicate that the innervation of the nasal mucous membrane is closely associated with neighbour- ing regions. But other less obvious relationships are shown: for instance, in the occurrence of sneezing on sexual excitement, the rhinitis following sexual excitement or sexual excess, the epistaxis which has been known to recur at the menstrual period of some women, and the anatomical differences in the nasal mucous mem- branes of the bull and the bullock which John Wright has demonstrated. Hyperesthesia and Neuralgia. — The nasal mucous membrane is often hypersensitive in patients who suffer from hay fever and other forms of paroxysmal sneezing and rhinorrhoea. The existence of particularly sensitive areas may sometimes be detected by touching with a probe. Neui'algia is sometimes referred to the nose from implication of the branches of the fifth nerve to the nasal passages, but though less common, it is due to much the same causes as facial neuralgia generally. Paroxysmal Sneezing.—Sneezing is a reflex phenomenon in which three factors co-operate : (I) an external stimulus, (2) excitation of a bulbar centre, and (3) efferent impulses cul- minating in the act of sneezing. Paroxysmal or excessive sneezing arises from hyperexcita- bility either peripheral or central, or both. Thus in many cases the pathological factor is some abnormally sensitive area in the nasal passages (sensori-motor), e.g. a septal spur ; or it is a purely central neurosis (ideo-motor), e.g. in "hay fever" excited by the proximity of artificial flowers; or it is the co-operation of both factors, e.g. in cases where bright sunlight and hay pollen cause hay fever (which is only a particular variety of paroxysmal sneezing); for everyone is exposed to bright sunlight and hay pollen, but only patients of a nervous temperament suffer. The symptoms hardly require lengthy de-NOSE—NASAL NEUROSES 99 scription ; the affection consists merely in an abnormal tendency to sneeze many times in suc- cession without adequate external cause. Some women of the neurotic temperament are subject to attacks of sneezing occurring in paroxysms of thirty to forty sneezes at a time, particularly on rising in the morning. I have had male patients who sneezed one hundred and fifty to two hundred times a day, or more. Such ex- cessive sneezing renders the patient incapable of ordinary mental or bodily exertion, their nervous energy being more or less exhausted in the sneezing attacks. The sneezing is usually accompanied by rhinorrhoea and lachrymation. Ordinary spasmodic asthmatic paroxysms are very frequently preceded or accompanied by paroxysmal sneezing ; in other cases attacks of paroxysmal sneezing alternate with asthma or may replace, for a time, the liability to asthma. Vasomotor i^^wtifo's.—Vascular engorgement of the nasal mucous membrane and of the erectile tissue of the turbinal bodies is liable to occur in young anaemic females, and also in dyspeptic or gouty subjects, and those addicted to alcoholic or sexual excesses. It may either take the form (a) of simple periodic vascular engorgement, or (b) of vascular engorgement with coryza and sneezing. The swelling of the nasal mucous membrane causes intermittent nasal stenosis, and in some cases an external redness and swelling of the nose. In the latter class the middle turbinated body will sometimes be found to press on the septum, and this doubtless accounts in some measure for the external swelling. Hydrorrhea (coryza vaso-motoriaperiodica)).— This affection, which is characterised by profuse watery discharge from the nose, must be dis- tinguished from the somewhat rare cases of cerebro-spinal rhinorrhoea, or the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid through the nasal passages. The precise etiology of the affection is not clear, but the patients are generally overworked, neurotic subjects. In idiopathic rhinorrhoea the flow of fluid from the nose is usually preceded or accompanied by sneezing and lachrymation, itching or prick- ing sensations in the nose ; in other cases the escape of watery fluid is the only symptom. It generally ceases during sleep. Very large quantities of fluid have been known to run from the nasal passages, and in some cases the fluid has dripped freely, satu- rating several handkerchiefs during each attack. Indeed, as much as two or three quarts may escape in the twenty-four hours. After the flow has persisted for several hours the mucous membrane will be found swollen and oede- matous. The fluid is straw-coloured, and consists of water with traces of sodium chloride and mucus. Unlike cerebro-spinal fluid it does not reduce Fehling's solution. Coryza (Edenmtosa. — Closely allied to idio- pathic rhinorrhoea is an affection which consists in a serous infiltration of the inferior and middle turbinated bodies, to which Mulhall applied the term coryza oedematosa. The in- filtration is sometimes migratory, and in this respect resembles Quincke's oedema. It appears to be associated with digestive disorders in neurotic patients. Nasal Neuroses associated ivith Disease in other Regions.—Undoubtedly a large number of cases of spasmodic asthma are associated with either hyperaesthesia and engorgement of the nasal mucosa, nasal polypi, etc., and in a certain number the bronchial affection is due to the intranasal disease. On this question see "Asthma." Many other affections have been reported as instances of nasal neuroses, but in a large proportion the connection is more or less hypo- thetical. Even when a neurosis has been favourably modified as the result of intranasal treatment, it does not necessarily follow that the nervous phenomena were the outcome of the nasal condition, for certain neuroses will often respond to " nerve-shocking" treatment applied to almost any region of the body. But where actual pathological conditions exist in the nasal passages they may well be the determining- factor in the occurrence of some affections depending on central nerve instability, and appropriate treatment of the nasal lesion is sometimes helpful if not essential in the successful treatment of the general neuroses. Thus in a few instances epilepsy has seemed to be caused by nasal abnormalities, the removal of which has been followed by cessation of the epileptic seizures; and in one patient, who never had a fit before or since, an ordinary epileptic attack (gra.nd mal) ensued while I was applying the galvano-cautery to the nasal passages. Watson records a case of tachycardia which was apparently produced by nasal polypi : symptoms of Grave's disease (goitre and tachy- cardia) have vanished after treatment of a rhinitis. Of ocular affections due to nasal neuroses, it is sufficient to mention that strabismus, myopia, asthenopia, narrowing of the visual fields, photo- phobia, epiphora, oedema of the lids, blepharo- spasm, and exophthalmos have been recorded. Treatment.—The foregoing affections being essentially neuroses, it is always desirable to treat the general matter by hygienic measures, and the exhibition of nervine tonics, such as arsenic, strychnine, phosphorus, valerianate of zinc, etc. In many cases baths or massage, a sea-voyage or change of air, or a visit to a suitable continental spa, will afford a more com- plete and lasting cure than any local treatment of the nasal passages. But without falling into the error of exaggerating the importance ofNOSE—NASAL NEUROSES 100 slight departures from the normal anatomical confirmation of the nasal passages, or the sensitiveness of the nasal mucosa, it is always desirable to examine carefully for the existence of any pathological condition in this region which may account for a nasal neurosis, in order that the peripheral factor may be re- moved. Amongst such local causes the follow- ing may be mentioned, viz. : (1) Marked hyper- trophic rhinitis ; (2) definite spurs (or deflec- tions of the septum) which are in contact with the turbinal bodies; (3) polypi; and (4) the existence of abnormally sensitive spots. Even when local abnormalities are found in the nose it is not always easy to determine how far they may be the cause of any associated neu- rosis, for it is a matter of common observation that all the local conditions just mentioned as possible causes can and do often occur without any concomitant nervous phenomena. The local application of cocaine is often a useful guide on this point; for if the neurosis is definitely relieved by the local ansesthetic, and reasserts itself as the effect of the cocaine passes ofi:', then appropriate local treatment is generally desirable. In rhinal hydrorrhoea the repeated local application of the galvanic current, one pole being in contact with the nasal mucous mem- brane, has proved successful; local hypodermic injections of atropine and strychnine also have resulted in cure. The local application of cocaine in cases of nasal neuroses, while often useful for diagnostic pui'poses, should not be resorted to as a curative measure : the drug may mask such affections for a time, but the relief is only temporary, and is liable to be followed by aggravation of the symptoms, while the risk of inducing a cocaine habit is never to be ignored in the treatment of any neurosis. Furthei', one should never overlook or dis- regard the existence of any underlying dys- crasia; thus paroxysmal sneezing, vasomotor rhinitis, and asthma may be due to goutiness, dyspepsia, and portal congestion. 9. Inflammatory AflFections of Accessory Sinuses 1. Anatomy of the Sinuses . . .100 2. Etiology of the Inflammatory Af- fections . . . . . .102 3. Bacteriology of the Inflammatory Affections . . . . .103 4. Pathology of the Inflammatory Af- fections . . . . . .103 5. Acute Inflammation and Suppura- tion IN— (a) The Alaocillary Sinus . .104 (6) The Frontal Sinus . . .105 (c) The Ethmoidal Cells . .105 (d) The Sphenoidal Sinus . .105 (e) Treatment of the Acute Affections 106 6. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration IN THE Accessory Sinuses, "Latent Empyema"— i. General Symptomatology . .106 ii. Examination of the Nose . . 108 iii. Diagnosis op Chronic Suppuration in the Anterior Group op Sin- uses 109 A. 2^he Maxillary/ Sinus . . .109 B. The Frontal Sinus . . .111 C. The Anterior Ethmoidal Cells . 113 iv. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration IN the Posterior Group of Sin- uses— A. The Sphenoidal Sinus. . . 114 B. The Posterior Ethmoidal Cells . 114 7. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration— A. The Maxillary Sinus . . . 115 B. The Frontal Sinus . . .119 C. The Ethmoidal Cells . . .122 D. The Sphenoidal Sinus . .123 Anatomy and Physiology. — The accessory air sinuses which lie in relation to the nasal cavities, and which communicate with each nasal chamber, are named as follows: the maxillary sinus, the frontal sinus, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells, and the sphenoidal sinus. These air spaces, both on anatomical and clinical grounds, may be conveniently considered as forming two groups, a subdivision which is based upon the relative position of their orifices of communication with the nose. In the first group are the maxillary, the frontal, and the anterior ethmoidal sinuses which open into the middle meatus of the nose below the line of origin of the middle turbinated bone (Fig. 2).^ In the second group are the posterior ethmoidal cells and the sphenoidal sinuses communicating with the nasal cavities above the middle turbi- nated bone, the former opening into the superior meatus, the latter into the spheno-ethmoidal recess. This recess is situated on the outer wall of the nasal chamber behind the superior turbi- nated bone, in front of the body of the sphenoid bone, and above the superior meatus (Fig. 2). When pus is seen in the middle meatus on anterior i-hinoscopy, its source must be suspected in the sinuses of the first group; when it is seen in the olfactory cleft, the narrow interval be- tween the middle turbinated bone and the septum nasi, attention should be turned to the posterior group of cells. These cavities are lined by a thin muco-periosteal membrane con- tinuous through their ostia with the lining membrane of the nasal cavities. The Maxilla7-y Sinus or Antrum of Highmore is a cavity constantly present in the body of the upper jaw-bone. It has a roof, a floor, and three walls. The roof is a thin plate of bone, the up2)er surface of which forms the floor of the orbital cavity. It contains the canal for the ' Figs. 1, 2, 3, and 4 refer to the Plate here inserted.Fig. 1.—Dissection sliowing right maxillary Fig. 2.—Dissection slicwing outer wall of left nasal chamber, antrum opened upon its outer aspect. The various arrows indicate the jiosition of the ostia of the The niaxillaiy ostium is seen situated in sinuses. The middle turbinated body has been removed the highest jjart of tlie cavity immediately along the line indicated by the cross+• In this way below its roof. The outer table of bone the ostia communicating with the middle meatus are is removed in order to show the relation bi'ought into view. Tlic long arrow passing downwards of the fangs of the teeth to the floor of from the frontal sinus sIkjws the rjaso frontal duct open- the antrum. ing directly into the middle meatus in front of the in- fundibulum. Fig. 3.—Skull showing an- terior wall of both frontal sinuses removed. The two cavities are of aver- age dimensions: the septum is mesial in posi- tion. The small dark area in the left sinus im- mediately above the nose indicates the position of the ostium fi'ontale. ■ - Ellimoid bulla. Hiatus si-miliinari Inriiiidibuliiiii. Uncinate process. Middle meatus. Infr. turb. body. Ma\illBi7 antnini. Fig. 4.—Drawing from dissection kindly lent to author by Prof. Symington. It is a vertical coronal section through the nasal cliambers and maxillary antra on the jilane of the antral orifices, through each of which an arrow jiasses into the infundibulum. The close relation of the frontal, anterior ethmoidal, and maxillary sinuses to the orbit is also seen. The com- munication between the anterior ethmoidal cells and the turbinal cell on the right side with the middle meatus of the nose is indicated by arrows. Vol. VII. Plate I. Tn face paae lOo.NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 101 superior maxillary nerve and the infra-orbital vessels. The floor is formed by the alveolar process of the upper jaw, and has an important relation to the teeth. As a rule, the floor of the antrum and the floor of the nasal cavity lie on the same horizontal plane. The layer of spongy bone between the roots of the teeth and the antral cavity varies in thickness in different skulls, and often on the two sides of the same skull ; it is rare to find a direct communication between the roots of the teeth and the mucous membrane of the antrum. The relation of the teeth to the floor of the cavity varies according to the dimensions of the sinus. The three molar teeth bear the most constant relation to the floor, while the second bicuspid comes next in frequency (Fig. 1). The posterior wall of the maxillary sinus is a thin plate of bone which intervenes between that cavity and the zygomatic fossa. The inner or nasal ivall is clinically of con- siderable importance. That portion which lies beneath the attachment of the inferior turbi- nated bone, and forms the outer wall of the inferior meatus, consists of a thin layer of bone; it is thinnest immediately below the turbinated, where it off'ers the most favourable site for ex- ploratory puncture of the sinus. Above the inferior turbinated bone the nasal wall forms the outer boundary of the middle meatus, and is partly osseous, partly membranous. In this region is situated the maxillary opening {ostium maxillare). It lies immediately beneath the roof of the antral cavity, a position which does not favour free drainage through it (Figs. 1 and 4). Under cover of the middle turbinated bone it opens into the infundibulum (Figs. 1 and 4), a canal on the outer nasal wall, which also receives the orifices of many of the anterior ethmoidal cells, and usually also the duct lead- ing from the frontal sinus in many cases. The infundibulum in its turn communicates with the middle meatus through the hiatus semilunaris —a narrow slit-like opening, bounded above by the ethmoidal bulla, below by the uncinate pro- cess (Fig. 2). Sometimes an accessory maxillary opening exists, which lies at a lower level than and posterior to the infundibular opening (Fig. 2). It communicates directly with the middle meatus immediately above the posterior half of the inferior turbinated bone. In some cases of antral suppuration the discharge mainly passes backwards into the nasopharynx, an occurrence probably explained by the existence of this accessory opening. The anterior or facial ivall is thin. In front, this surface is marked by the canine ridge, immediately behind which is the canine fossa, through which the antral cavity is frequently opened. The maxillary sinus varies in size in diff"erent skulls, and sometimes also on the two sides of the same skull. It may be diminished by an undue approximation of its facial and nasal walls, or from a want of absorption of the bone during its development. In the latter case the walls of the cavity may be of considerable thickness. It is very rarely either completely or incompletely subdivided by partitions. The Frontal Sinuses are situated in the frontal bone immediately above the root of the nose, and extend upwards and outwards upon the forehead and backwards along the roof of the orbit, subject to very considerable variations in size and shape (Fig. 3). They are not present at birth, and probably do not exist before the seventh year of life. One or both sinuses may be absent. Each cavity has three walls— anterior, posterior, and inferior. The anterior is the thickest, varying from 1-5 mm. The inferior wall or floor is the thinnest, so that secretion retained in the cavity tends to make it bulge. The thickness of the walls varies in different skulls and on the two sides of the same skull. A bony septum, which is very rarely incomplete, intervenes between the two sinuses. It is usually mesial in position, but may deviate to one or other side of the mesial plane. In marked cases of deviation the ob- liquity of the septum leads to considerable asymmetry of the sinuses—in some cases one cavity extending so far across the mesial plane of the forehead as to reduce the other to a mere slit. In such cases the surgeon may fail to open the diseased cavity when operating through the anterior wall. The following measurements sufficiently indicate a sinus of average size: height (1^ in.) from the lower end of the fronto-maxillary suture vertically upwards; breadth (1 in.) from a mesial septum horizontally outwards; depth (| in.) from the anterior wall of the cavity backwards along the orbital roof. The dimensions vary considerably independently of the degree of development of the glabella and supraciliary ridges. Thus the sinuses may exist merely as recesses limited to a small area above the nose. On the other hand, the cavity may extend upwards on to the forehead for more than two inches, while exter- nally it may be limited by the bony wall of the temporal fossa and reach as far back as the optic foramen in the roof of the orbital cavity. By the aid of transillumination, to be afterwards described, the extent of the cavities can be delineated on the forehead in many individuals. The interior of the sinus may present consider- able irregularities; incomplete partitions often exist, giving rise to the formation of pockets. Such diverticula are frequently found towards the external angle of the sinus. Special atten- tion should be paid to this region, and to the backward extension of the floor along the orbital roof, in the operative treatment of chronic sup- puration. A sinus may be almost completely subdivided by a vertical, or to a lesser extent by a horizontal bony partition, each subdivision communicating with the nose. Each sinus com-102 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES municates at its most dependent part with the nasal cavity (Fig. 2). The ostium frontale forms the upper end of the naso-f rontal duct which leads downwards into the infundibuliim of the nose. The Ethmoidal Cell Labyrinth is mainly con- tained in the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, but it may extend upwards into the frontal bone, backwards into the sphenoid, and in- feriorly into the superior maxillary bone. It is divided into an anterior and posterior group of cells, there being as a rule no intercom- munication between the two groups. The relative space occupied by each set of cells and the number of cells in each vary considerably. The subdivision is based upon the position of the diiferent openings communicating with the nose. Some of the anterior ethmoidal cells open directly into the middle meatus, others again open into the infundibulum, and thence through the hiatus semilunaris into the meatus. The posterior ethmoidal cells communicate with the superior meatus (Fig. 2). The ethmoidal cells have an important relation to the orbit, the OS planum of the ethmoid bone forming both the outer wall of the labyrinth and the inner wall of the orbital cavity (Fig. 4). Certain of the anterior ethmoidal cells have received special names, thus: a large cell situated on the inferior aspect of the lateral mass is termed the ethmoidal bulla; the ethmoidal cell which occasionally extends up- wards and forms an elevation upon the floor of the frontal sinus is designated the frontal bulla; lastly, an air space is sometimes present in the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone which is spoken of as the turbinal cell (Figs. 2 and 4). The Sphenoidal Sinuses occupy the anterior portion of the body of the sphenoid bone (Fig. 2). The two cavities are separated by a mesial vertical bony partition, which is usually com- plete. The cavities vary in size in different skulls. The larger the cavity the thinner are its walls, and vice versa, a fact which may considerably influence the symptoms produced by an inflammatory affection within the sinus. The anterior wall is thin, and forms the posterior part of the roof of the nose. It contains the orifice of the sinus, which is situated considerably above the floor of the cavity, sometimes close to the intervening septum, in other cases nearer the outer lateral wall of the cavity. It communicates with the spheno-ethmoidal recess (Fig. 2). The 2wsterior wall abuts upon the basi-occipital bone. The roof of the sinus has important relations to certain intracranial structures lying upon the basis cranii, namely, the optic chiasma, the pituitary body, and even the pons Varolii. The optic nerve and ophthalmic artery are situated in the angle between the roof and external lateral wall of the sinus. The intervening layer of bone may be extremely thin. The floor of the sphenoidal sinus forms part of the roof of the nasal chamber. The inner or mesial wall is the septum between the two cavities. It may be considerably deviated from the mesial plane. The external lateral wall lies in relation to certain cranial nerves, the third, fourth, the ophthalmic, and sometimes the superior maxillary divisions of the fifth nerve, also the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Diiferent views have been held at various times with regard to the function of these cavities. Some have looked upon them as being concerned in the function of smell, while others believed that they assisted in respiration. No importance can be attached to either of these views. In all probability they serve as secondary resonating chambers for the voice. 2. Etiology.—Inflammation and suppuration in the nasal sinuses may arise in the course of certain acute affections, such as influenza, pneumonia, scarlet fever, measles, typhoid fever, diphtheria, smallpox, and cerebro-spinal menin- gitis. The inflammation may reach the sinus by direct extension from the nose, fauces, and nasopharynx, or the cavities may become in- volved through the blood stream in the course of a general systemic infection. E. Frankel's investigations have shown the frequency of sinus complications in croupous pneumonia, while the great importance of influenza as a causative factor has now been demonstrated beyond all dispute. There is no doubt that an actual increase in the number of cases of purulent sinus disease is due to the greater frequency and prevalence of the influenza epidemics. In the epidemic of 1890 Weich- selbaum found suppuration present in a large number of post-mortem examinations upon influenza patients, while Garel has given us a clinical record of a series of cases of acute inflammation of the maxillary and frontal sinuses which occurred during the epidemic of 1899-1900. In cases of acute coryza, in which there has been no reason to suspect an influenzal infection, sinus inflammation may complicate the " cold." Suppuration has also been ascribed by Weichselbaum to an attack of facial erysipelas. It is more reasonable, however, when these conditions are associated, to regard the erysipelas as secondary to the nasal discharge. Passing from these acute conditions, we find that suppuration in the sinuses is sometimes as- sociated with such chronic affections of the nose as syphilitic ulceration, benign and malignant growths. Tuberculous disease of the accessory cavities appears to be rare, although Neumayer and R(5thi have recorded two or three cases in which tubercle of the maxillary sinus occurred in association with, but secondary to, tubercle of the gums and nasal mucous membrane. Lapalle, who ex- amined the sinuses in 59 cadavera, in which death was due to pulmonary or meningeal103 NOSE-INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES tuberculosis, found sinus disease in 19 in- stances, but no facts are furnished indicating that the latter condition was tuberculous. The relation of ozsena to accessory cavity suppuration is still a vexed question; in a certain number of cases the two conditions are associated, but the relation of cause and effect is still debated. Suppuration has been ascribed to nasal polypi, but in the majority of cases in which these conditions co-exist, the latter are of secondary origin, and result from the constant irritation to which the mucous membrane is subjected from the flow of pus over it. In the case of the antrum dental caries is an important etiological factor, though even on this point all are not agreed as to the relative frequency of a dental or nasal origin in antral suppuration. Inflammation may be due to trauma conse- quent upon fractures of the sinus walls. It may also follow such operations upon the nasal chambers as the removal of polypi, and the injudicious and prolonged insertion into the nose of cotton-wool or gauze plugs, e.g. in controlling epistaxis. Furthei', the extraction of teeth and the resection of the superior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve, as reported by Langenbeck, have set up inflam- matory mischief in the antrum. It is very important to remember, too, that the pus from one sinus may infect another. The intimate anatomical relations between the various ostia sufiiciently indicate how this may arise, while the non-recognition of this fact may lead to failure in treatment. The possibility of infect- ing the anterior ethmoidal cells or frontal sinus from too forcible syringing of the antral cavity must also be borne in mind. 3. The BACTERIOLOGY of acccssory sinus inflammation has been studied both in the living subject aud upon the cadaver, and a number of organisms have been described in connection with it. We are mainly indebted to the work of Weichselbaum and E. Frankel for our knowledge of this subject, although a number of workers have recently turned their attention to the same field. Amongst the various organisms may be mentioned the diplococcus pneumonioe (Frankel's pneumococcus), the pneumo-bacillus of Friedlander, the bacterium coli, and a number of pyogenic organisms, varieties of streptococci and staphylococci. The influenza bacillus has been demonstrated by Lindenthal, Howard and Ingersoll, and Mos- kowsky. An interesting case has recently been recorded by Luc, in which the pneumococcus alone was found in acute inflammation of the frontal and maxillary sinuses. The patient was infected while conducting a post-mortem examination upon a case of cerebro-spinal meningitis, from which the pneumococcus was cultivated. Howard and Ingersoll failed to find the tubercle bacillus in a number of cases of chronic suppuration examined with that object in view. True diphtheritic membrane has been found in the antrum by Weichselbaum, E. Frankel, Dmochowsky, and Pearce. The last-named investigator has made some very interesting post-mortem observations upon a nvmiber of cases of uncomplicated diphtheria, and of diphtheria associated with measles or with scarlet fever. In considerably more than half of the unmixed cases of diphtheria inflam- matory changes were found in the antra, and the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus was present in all but three. In three of the four cases complicated with scarlet fever the antra contained pus in which streptococci and staphylococci were found. These observations, however, refer only to fatal cases. Some interesting points worthy of more extended research have lately been published by Stanculeanu and Baup. These observers have divided sinus suppurations into two groups: those primarily due to dental caries in which the organisms found were mainly anaerobic, e.g. bacillus ramosus, perfringens, serpens, etc.; and those of nasal origin, in which the organisms were chiefly aerobic, e.g. pneumococci, streptococci, staphylococci. In the former the pus was foetid, in the latter non-ffetid. 4. Pathology.— Inflammation of the acces- sory nasal sinuses may be acute or chronic, and be induced by those organisms to which we have already referred. It is characterised by such changes as are usually associated with inflammation of mucous membranes. These vary with the severity of the infection, and are modified according to the patency or occlusion of the orifice of the cavity. In acute inflamma- tion the mucosa becomes congested, infiltrated with round cells, and swollen, while a serous exudation is poured out, constituting an acute catarrh of the membrane. This exudation may become seropurulent or purulent, and if mixed with a quantity of mucus it presents a muco purulent character. If the ostium of the sinus becomes blocked by the swollen mucous mem- brane, the exudation is retained under tension, and the clinical symptoms and signs become aggravated. Distension of the bony wall of the cavity, where there is least resistance, may occur, and in some cases be followed by perfora- tion, and the formation of a fistula and its sequelae. Spontaneous cure may result; on the other hand, the inflammatory process may become chronic. In many cases the affection is not recognised clinically until this stage is reached. When a chronic suppuration exists various secondary changes are met with in the mucous membrane. The round cell infiltration already referred to may be followed by the formation of new fibrous tissue, causing thickening of the membrane. The mucous glands are to a large extent destroyed, while cysts varying consider- ably in size are formed by dilatation of the gland ducts, or even of the acini themselves.NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 104 The mucous membrane frequently presents a uniformly swollen, gelatinous appearance. Not infreqvxently this condition is associated with the presence of numerous soft polypoid pro- cesses, which vary considerably in size and in number, and may even fill up the interior of the cavity. Occasionally a single polypus is met with in the sinus. In consequence of the swollen cedematous condition of the lining mem- brane the ostium of the cavity may become partially blocked and the free drainage of pus interfered with. The deeper periosteal layer also becomes involved, leading either to a plastic or a destructive process in the subjacent bone. While caries of the osseous wall is met with, and sometimes necrosis, it is undoubtedly the case that in a very large number of cases no destruction of bone occurs, which is probably accounted for by the fact that the bony walls of these cavities are provided with a periosteal covering on each aspect. In consequence of destruction of the bone perforation of the sinus wall may result, and various complications follow. A communication may thus be established between the antrum and ethmoidal cells, or between these cells and the frontal sinus. In a similar way the frontal sinus, ethmoidal cells, and antrum may com- municate with the orbital fossa, and fistulous tracts resvilt therefrom (Fig. 4). Implication of the orbit and the formation of a secondary abscess in that cavity may lead to temporary or perma- nent injury of the eyeball and its adnexa, and may prove the starting-point of intracranial complications. Orbital cellulitis with abscess formation may occur without any perforation of the bone, infection taking place through the blood or lymph channels. Within the nose itself alterations in the mucous membrane are frequently observed. These consist in the development of polypi in the middle meatus and in its vicinity. They may completely block the nasal chamber or be insignificant in size. The nasal lining membrane generally presents a swollen and reddened appearance, while the inferior turbinated body may be turgescent; these intranasal changes probably result from the irritation of the purulent nasal discharge. Intracranial complications may be secondary to suppuration in any of the accessory sinuses, though not so often in connection with antral disease. Although more frequently due to chronic affections, their occurrence in acute cases must not be lost sight of. The infection occurs as the result of caries and destruction of the sinus wall, thus establishing a direct com- munication with the cranial cavity, or it may spread inwards through venous channels or lymphatic vessels of the diploe without any macroscopic evidence of the path of infection. In some cases the mischief passes from the orbit along the ophthalmic veins to the cavernous sinus. Perforation of the posterior wall of the frontal sinus or of the roof of the sphenoidal sinus may be followed by extradural, subdural, or cerebral abscess, by purulent basal or general meningitis, by thrombosis of the cavernous, petrosal, and superior longitudinal sinuses, or by a combination of two or more of these com- plications. An ever-increasing number of fatal cases with the primary source of infection in the nasal sinuses is being recorded, and in many instances the real cause of the intracranial com- plication has only been revealed at the post- mortem examination. 5. Acute Inflammation in the Accessory Sinuses.—Acute inflammation and suppuration of one or more of these cavities probably occur more frequently as concomitant complications of acute coryza, influenza, and certain of the exanthemata than is generally supposed to be the case. The onset of the inflammation may be masked by the severity of the coryza which precedes or accompanies it. Sometimes the patient's attention is drawn to the fact that during the acute stage of the cold the muco- purulent discharge is more than usually copious, perhaps especially so from one nostril, and further, that it continues for a longer time than is customary. The symptoms commonly associated with acute inflammation in the acces- sory cavities are considerably modified accord- ing as the ostium of the cavity remains patent or becomes closed from swelling of its mucous membrane. In the former case the secretion drains away more or less freely, and a spon- taneous cure frequently results, while in the latter case there is retention and consequent aggravation of the symptoms. (a) The Maxillary Sinus.—The symptoms of an acute coryza may be characterised by severe neuralgia in the cheek and forehead of the aff'ected side, the pain in some of these cases being associated with a considerable degree of photophobia. A rigor and a rise of temperature sometimes precede the onset of the pain, and tenderness may be elicited upon pressure over the cheek or upon the gums. The severity of the symptoms may then be greatly diminished by a sudden and copious flow of secretion from the corresponding nostril. The discharge varies in character, being perhaps at first serous or slightly blood-stained, but becoming muco- purulent or purulent; from the first it may consist entirely of thick creamy pus. Cessation of the flow of pus may be followed by an ex- acerbation of the symptoms, again to be relieved by a sudden return of the discharge. This alteration in the character of the symptoms is very suggestive of the condition. The dis- charge gradually diminishes in quantity with a corresponding amelioration of the pain and local discomfort, and after a varying period of time either a spontaneous cure results or the condition becomes chronic. In other cases, again, operative interference is demanded be-105 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES fore any relief can be obtained. Orbital com- plications seldom arise in connection with acute antral suppuration: they are evidenced by severe pain in the eye, displacement of the globe, and the formation of pus in the surround- ing cellular tissue. If the nose be examined by anterior rhino- scopy in a case of this kind, the mucous lining on the affected side is probably found red and swollen, and the inferior turbinated body turgescent. Inspection of the middle meatus may reveal a drop of pus in that situation, in- creasing in quantity after the head has been inclined forwards. Transillumination is of con- siderable diagnostic value: if opacity of the cheek and absence of the subjective light sensa- tion in the eye of the affected side exist in conjunction with the symptoms and signs enumerated, the diagnosis of antral suppuration is almost certain. In connection with illumina- tion of the antrum in these cases, it may be pointed out, that the diagnosis of acute perio- stitis of the upper jaw, due to a diseased tooth and producing symptoms somewhat resembling those of antral suppuration, may be aided by this test. In this condition the patient may experience a subjective sensation of light in both eyes, and inspection of the interior of the nose will reveal an absence of the objective signs above described. Should the ostium maxillare be blocked in antral suppuration, a differential diagnosis might still prove uncertain and necessitate an exploratory puncture. Schmiegelow, Ropke, and others have re- ported a few cases of acute inflammation of the superior maxillary bone occurring in infants a few weeks after birth. The symptoms thus presented are severe. The onset of the illness is sudden and is ushered in with fever, accom- panied by redness and swelling of the cheek and eyelids, followed by discharge of pus into the nose and mouth, or on to the face through one or more openings. Necrosis of part or even of the whole of the upper jaw-bone may occur, numerous small sequestra becoming detached. These cases present the signs of acute osteo- myelitis of the ixpper jaw-bone, as Schmiegelow first pointed out, a condition which some writers, however, have described as acute sup- puration in the antrum. Neither on anatomi- cal nor on clinical grounds can this latter definition be regarded as correct. (b) The Frontal Sinus.—Acute inflammation of the lining membrane of this cavity is ushered in by symptoms which closely resemble those described in connection with the antrum. Fever and general malaise are accompanied by intense frontal headache and a feeling of weight and oppression above the eye, and sometimes a sensation of fulness behind it. Percussion immediately above the inner third of the supra- orbital margin on the suspected side elicits tenderness, a symptom, however, which is rendered much more acute when the floor of the sinus is pressed vipon. Redness and swelling of the skin over the cavity, along with slight oedema of the upper eyelid, may afford further evidence of some deep-seated affection. In the absence of external signs, or when the patient is seen before there has been any nasal discharge, the case may easily be mistaken for one of severe neuralgia. A sudden discharge of pus into the nose is followed by abatement of the symptoms, and the patient feels better. Anterior rhino- scopy may reveal a condition very similar to what is seen when the antrum is affected. Some observers obtain considerable assistance in acute cases from transillumination of the frontal sinus, finding the aifected cavity opaque or considerably darker than on the opposite side. If, in conjunction with these phenomena, the maxillary sinuses illuminate, the diagnosis of frontal sinus suppuration is still further established. Should the ostium frontale become blocked a more serious train of symptoms may supervene. As the thin bony floor of the sinus offers least resistance, expansion of this wall follows most readily, with the formation of a fluctuating swelling in the upper and inner angle of the orbit. Exophthalmos, and a downward and outward displacement of the eyeball along with certain visual disturbances, may follow dis- tension of the cavity. Rupture of the bony wall may take place with the formation of an orbital abscess. Perforation of the posterior sinus wall followed by intracranial mischief is a rare complication in acute cases. (c) The Ethmoidal Cells.—Acute suppuration, whether occurring in the ethmoid labyrinth or limited to the cell of the ethmoidal bulla or of the middle turbinated bone, is not frequently met with. Griinwald reports two cases in which a limited suppuration of this kind oc- curred. Both patients suffered from headache and severe pains in the forehead, and complained of nasal discharge, which in one of the cases was for some days of a watery nature, after- wards becoming purulent. Examination of the nose showed the mucous membrane to be red and slightly swollen, and pus was visible upon the middle turbinated body. Irrigation of the nose and the establishment of a free exit for the pus permanently removed the symptoms. Jeaffreson reports an acute case, with sudden onset, occurring during convalescence from scarlet fever. The patient was seized with rigors, fever, headache, and cerebral symptoms. In a few days there was exophthalmos of the right eye with defective vision and double optic neuritis. An incision made on the inner side of each orbital cavity evacuated pus. The ab- scesses were found to communicate. In twenty- four hours all acute symptoms disappeared. {d) The Sphenoidal Sinus.—Acute inflamma- tion of this cavity has not been very frequently106 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES recognised clinically; several cases, however, have been described by Schiiffer. The symptoms resembled those of an aggravated nasal and naso-pharyngeal catarrh, the patient complain- ing of intense headache in the occipital region and on the vertex of the skull. Accompanying this there were symptoms of sleeplessness and general malaise, and the temperature rose above that usually met with in an ordinary cold. In some cases giddiness was a prominent symptom. If an objective examination should be made in the acute stage, the mucous membrane in the posterior part of the nose will be found red and turgescent, the olfactory slit between the middle turbinated, and the septum being narrowed by the swollen condition of the mucosa. Muco-purulent and purulent secretion may be also visible both by anterior and posterior rhinoscopy, but there are no crusts such as occur in the chronic form of the affection. (e) Treatment op the Acute Affections.—■ Acute suppuration in the accessory sinuses may heal spontaneously, or may pass into a chronic condition. Some cases require early surgical interference owing to the acute and threaten- ing character of the symptoms. The duration of this stage varies considerably, and is de- pendent not only upon the severity of the infection, but on certain anatomical conditions which favour imperfect drainage. Amongst these may be enumerated the position of the ostium, as in the antrum, the small size of the openings, and incomplete subdivisions of the cavity due to partitions. I have seen acute suppuration of the frontal sinus heal without any surgical operation after the discharge had persisted for seven weeks, while an acute antral suppuration seen a week after its onset and treated by palliative measures lapsed into a chronic condition. In the treatment of the acute stage various simple remedies are em- ployed, mainly with the object of reducing the nasal turgescence and thus favouring freer drainage. The patient should be confined to bed, and, in the case of the maxillary and frontal sinuses, hot compresses or ice applied to the cheek and forehead often relieve the pain to some extent. Frequent inhalations of menthol vapour, prepared by adding menthol crystals to hot water or administered in a 10 per cent alcoholic solution from an inhaler, greatly relieve the symptoms. A weak cocaine spray 2 to 3 per cent effects a similar purpose. The internal administration of salol is also by some strongly recommended. The severer cases, however, require careful watching, and if the symptoms are very acute it may be necessary to open the sinus or enter it through the natural orifice and wash out the contents. Complete and permanent relief has resulted from a single irrigation in such cases. If the pain continues severe or head symptoms supervene, operation should not be delayed. The formation of an orbital abscess must be at once dealt with. Opinions differ as regards the time of opening the sinus in the less severe cases where, after the dis- appearance of all subjective symptoms, the purulent discharge continues. Avellis is in favour of operating after three weeks, while others recommend delay for six weeks. In the frontal sinus case referred to above the discharge ceased spontaneously after seven weeks. In all cases the surgeon must be guided both by the amount and the character of the pus. If it recurs in gradually diminishing quantities and becomes less purulent, even though it continues over a period of several weeks, operation may still be safely delayed. The methods of operating upon the different sinuses are described under the treatment of chronic suppuration. In acute cases, however, curetting of the interior of the cavity is not necessary, and the condition tends to heal without prolonged after-treatment. 6. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in the Accessory Sinuses, or so-called " Latent Empyema" i. General Symptomatology. — A brief re- sume of certain symptoms and signs which should suggest the possible existence of chronic suppuration in one or more of these cavities must, in the first place, be considered. It is of primary importance, however, to bear in mind the fact that pus may be secreted for months and even years in one of the accessory sinuses, with almost entire absence of pain or swelling to suggest the existence of such an inflammatory condition. The term "latent empyema" has in consequence been applied to this affection. On the other hand, a more general recognition of the fact that a purulent nasal discharge with or without some degree of nasal obstruction— especially if the discharge is unilateral—may be due to sinus mischief, has led to a more systematic and successful examination of these air spaces. In complicated cases in which more than one sinus is affected, a correct and com- plete diagnosis is by no means easy, and careful and repeated observation becomes necessary before a knowledge of the exact condition is ascertained. Even when only one sinus is dis- eased diagnosis is sometimes difficult. (a) Nasal Discharge.—This may be the chief or perhaps the only symptom complained of. It is often difficult to ascertain the date or manner of its origin. The patient may com- plain that he has a " chronic cold " which has lasted for many months or even years. The discharge varies in character. In some cases it is mainly purulent, being of a thick creamy consistence and yellow in colour. In others, again, it is thinner and more stringy owing to a considerable admixture of mucus, and some- times the mucus predominates, rendering the107 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES secretion clear but of a tenacious consistence. Killian has laid stress in diagnosis upon the green colour of the pus from the frontal sinus; but too much diagnostic importance must not be attached to any of the physical characters of the nasal discharge. The patient may com- plain that at times he both expectorates and removes with the aid of his handkerchief small crusts; there is a greater tendency for the dis- charge to dry into crusts in sphenoidal sinus disease, and according to Hajek the same thing is noticed in ethmoid cell suppuration. He may complain, too, of a foetid odour, and further, that the discharge which passes into the throat has a bad taste. In one of my cases the patient was conscious of the foetor in one nostril only. When a bad odour alone is complained of, a suspicion of a possible maxillary sinus suppuration should be aroused, as occasionally that constitutes the only subjective symptom met with. In some cases even of long-standing antral suppuration the discharge is not foetid. As a diagnostic aid it is important to bear in mind that in sinus disease the sufferer is con- scious of the odour while his neighbours are not; in foetid atrophic-rhinitis, on the other hand, the opposite is usually the case, the sense of smell being destroyed in the latter affection. The two conditions, however, sometimes co-exist; further, in sinus suppuration the nose may be so blocked with polypi that the sense of smell is lost. The discharge may be unilateral or bilateral; its presence in both nasal chambers does not necessarily imply a bilateral affection, as it may be blown forward from the naso-pharynx into the healthy side. On the other hand, at least one case has been reported in which unilateral nasal discharge occurred although both frontal sinuses were affected. The flow of pus is often more or less intermittent, being worse when the patient stoops; again, it may accumulate in the throat in the morning. This inter- mittency influenced by posture is suggestive of the antral origin of the discharge; a more constant flow may be in favour of its frontal source. Further, in some antral cases, the dis- charge passes mainly if not entirely backwards into the naso-pharynx and pharynx, this symp- tom constituting the patient's chief complaint. This may depend upon the existence of a large accessory antral opening, which serves to drain the cavity in a backward direction. Pus from the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells tends to pass in the same direction, while from the frontal sinus the flow is mainly forwards. (b) Nasal Obstmction may or may not ac- company sinus suppuration, being dependent mainly on the presence of polypi; it may be unilateral or bilateral, partial or complete. The patient sometimes complains of its inter- mittent character, due in all probability to the varying amount of turgescence of the inferior turbinated bodies. (c) Pain is a very variable symptom, and, as already indicated, may be absent throughout the whole course of the disease. It may be of the nature of headache, facial neuralgia, or toothache, sometimes slight, at other times occurring in severe paroxysms, often periodic in character. Some patients complain of a weight or fulness in the forehead, aggravated on stooping; others have associated with this an inability to concentrate their thoughts for any length of time, while mental work merely induces headache ; mental depression sometimes accompanies ethmoid disease. Such symptoms may be entirely due to nasal obstruction, as they may disappear after the removal of the polypi, a fact which is also observed when free respiration through the nose is established in cases in which there is no sinus affection. Too much importance should not be attached to the seat of the pain in this class of case. When this symptom is complained of in chronic antral suppuration it is most commonly located in the supra-orbital region; frontal headaches are just as frequent in ethmoidal as in frontal sinus disease, while in the latter condition occipital pain has been in several instances noted. In sphenoidal sinus disease pain may be com- plained of on the vertex, but occipital headache or painful sensations referred to the back of the eyes are also met with. The frequent combina- tion of sinus affections merely increases the difficulty of estimating the value of pain as a diagnostic symptom. Pain or tenderness is rarely elicited by pressure iipon the facial wall of the antrum. Tenderness induced by pres- sure on the floor of the frontal sinus in disease of that cavity, or upon the lachrymal bone in eth- moid affections, are signs of clinical value which will be again referred to under special diagnosis. (d) Certain secondary symptoms may arise in connection with sinus suppuration, e.g. cough, dryness of the throat, and huskiness of voice, due to irritation of the upper air passages from the purulent discharge, while true asthmatic symptoms are occasionally met with. Indi- gestion is not infrequent as a result of swallow- ing the offensive secretion. (e) Eye Symptoms.—The intimate anatomical association of the various sinuses with the orbit and its contents (Fig. 4), and the proximity of the sphenoidal sinus to the floor of the middle cranial fossa in the neighbourhood of the im- portant oculomotor and optic nerves, sufficiently explain the occasional occurrence of eye symp- toms in sinus disease. Generally speaking, we may group these symptoms and signs into two classes: those which are dependent upon dis- placement of the eyeball by mechanical pressure, such as occurs in ethmoidal, frontal and maxil- lary suppuration; and, secondly, those which result from compression or destruction of the optic or oculomotor nerves, more commonly met with in sphenoidal sinus disease.108 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES Although an upward and outward displace- ment of the eyeball may be met with in maxil- lary sinus suppuration, orbital complications probably arise less frequently in connection with it than with the other cavities. In frontal sinus disease expansion of the bony floor of that cavity, with or without the formation of an orbital abscess, causes swelling at the upper and inner angle of the orbit, and a downward and outward displacement of the globe. A similar displacement is more frequently asso- ciated with suppuration in the ethmoid cells in the absence of free drainage from these cells into the nose. The degree of forward projection of the eye (proptosis, exophthalmos) in these aiTections is mainly dependent upon the relatioti of the pressure to the equator of the eyeball. Consequent upon displacement of the eyeball, limitations in its movements and disturbances in function follow. Diplopia or double vision, and a narrowing of the field especially for colours, are symptoms met with, while some- times in severe cases there is an actual impair- ment of sight, an amblyopia or amaurosis. In association with these phenomena, pain, photo- phobia, interference with the flow of tears, swelling of the lids, and injection of the con- junctiva, make up a clinical picture which should always suggest the possibility of the existence of accessory sinus suppuration. With the actual formation of pus in the orbital cavity these phenomena become aggravated. Primary orbital abscess is not common, and its occurrence should lead to an examiiaation of the nasal sinuses. As already indicated, the ocular complications of sphenoidal disease are mainly those resulting from implication of the optic nerve at the base of the skull. Optic neuritis followed by atrophy, with partial or complete loss of vision, may complicate this condition. If the inflamma- tion should extend and involve the oculomotor nerves in the sphenoidal fissure, ptosis may be produced from implication of the third cranial nerve, while some variety of strabismus or a general paralysis of the ocular muscles may be induced by pressure upon the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. Intense neuralgia may be evi- dence of a neuritis of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. It is thus evident that the symptoms com- plained of by the patient may be varied in cases of chronic suppuration. It is inadvisable, there- fore, for the surgeon to hasten to any conclusion without first making a careful examination of the nose. This is all the more necessary when we remember that many of the nasal phenomena above described may be induced by lesions con- fined to the nasal chambers themselves, and result from such causes as the exanthemata, syphilis, tubercle, atrophic rhinitis, malignant disease, foreign bodies, and naso-pharyngeal catarrh. ii. Examination op the Nose.—On account of the close anatomical relations of the different sinuses and their ostia, the diagnosis of chronic suppuration is often difficult, and is frequently arrived at only by a process of exclusion. We shall therefore endeavour to describe, step by step, the procedure which may be adopted in carrying out a systematic examination of these cavities. Even after a careful inspection of the nose the surgeon may still be in doubt as to the real nature of the case, consequently he should have no hesitation in asking for a subsequent opportunity for further observation. As the intranasal appearances vary at different periods of the day, it is advisable that the patient should not be seen on each occasion at the same hour. Anterior and Posterior Rhinoscopy.—(a) Con- dition of the Nasal Mucous Membrane. — In many cases the nasal mucous membrane pre- sents a red and swollen appearance; if the affection is unilateral, there is a marked con- trast in this respect between the two chambers. The inferior turbinated body is frequently tur- gescent, preventing inspection of the deeper parts, and necessitating the application to it of cocaine; occasionally the mucosa presents a dry, glazed appearance, associated with some atrophy of the inferior turbinated body. The nostril may be completely blocked by one or more large polypi, so that their removal is, in the first instance, a preliminary to further examina- tion. One or more small polypi confined to the middle meatus are somewhat significant of sinus disease. (b) The Prese7ice of Pus.—Pus may be visible upon the inferior turbinated body, on the floor of the nose, or on the septum anteriorly, but the observer's attention must be turned par- ticularly to two situations, namely, the middle meatus and the olfactory cleft. We shall, in the first instance, consider a case in which pus is observed in the middle meatus (Figs. 2 and 4). The detection of a drop of pus in this region under cover of the middle turbinated body is highly suggestive of sinus disease, and the sinuses of the anterior group, namely, the maxillary antrum, frontal sinus, and anterior ethmoidal cells should be suspected. The posi- tion of the pus in the meatus affords no reliable guide as to which of these cavities is actually its source. If no pus be visible in this situa- tion it must not be at once assumed that there is no further necessity for considering it. We must at once proceed to investigate the case by other means at our disposal. Posterior rhinoscopy may reveal a purulent discharge in the nasopharynx ; it may be de- tected in the choana of the suspected side, or a favourable examination will disclose a drop of pus on the upper surface of the inferior turbinated body, that is, in the middle meatus posteriorly (Fig. 2). This sign is of considerable valueNOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 109 should we fail to detect any secretion in this meatus by anterior rhinoscopy. Any one of the cavities above mentioned may be aiTected alone, or any two or all three in combination, hence at the very outset a difficulty in diagnosis is met with. As the maxillary sinus is most frequently the source of the trouble, and as its anatomical position brings it most readily under examination, we proceed in the first place to investigate it. iii. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in THE Anterior Group op Sinuses.—A. The Maxillary Antrum.—(a) Frankel's Posture Test. —It is now necessary to thoroughly remove every trace of pus from the anterior part of the middle meatus. This may be conveniently effected by means of a pledget of cotton-wool wrapped round the end of a probe. The patient is then directed to bend his head forwards in such a way that the vertex becomes dependent, while the cheek of the suspected side is at the same time turned uppermost. This position is maintained for two or three minutes : the test sometimes loses its value if the head is not kept sufficiently long in this position. After the head has been raised the middle meatus is again inspected. The re- appearance of pus in this situation at once strongly suggests its antral source, and Frankel's test is spoken of as positive. The position of the ostium maxillare under the roof of the antrum sufficiently explains this phenomenon (Fig. 1). Significant though it is, it is, however, not conclusive. Even in antral suppuration Frankel's test may prove negative, though at a subsequent examination the reappearance of pus may be noted, a circumstance which may possibly depend upon the quantity of secretion that happens to be in the cavity at the time of inspection. Again, the position of the ostia of the ethmoid bulla and of the middle turbinated cell towards the upper part of their respective cavities will tend to make this test positive in anterior ethmoidal cell suppuration. Greville Macdonald asserts that, after the head has been dependent, he has found pus re- appear in the middle meatus quite as frequently in frontal sinus suppuration. In spite of these possibilities, there is no doubt that the posture test when positive is of considerable value in the diagnosis of maxillary suppuration. {h) The Suction Test.—Seifert and Rethi have recently advocated the use of the following method in diagnosis :—After all trace of pus has been removed from the nasal chamber, the nozzle of a Politzer's bag already compressed is introduced into the nostril of the suspected side; the anterior nares are closed, and, when the patient is directed to swallow, the bag is allowed to suddenly expand. The object of this manoeuvre is to withdraw by suction some of the secretion from the sinuses. The nose is again inspected and pus sought for in the middle meatus. Should it be visible in that situation its sinus origin is suggested, but there still remains the difficulty of definitely tracing it to one or other of the ostia situated in that channel. (c) The Illumination Test.—A knowledge of the fact first demonstrated by Voltolini and later developed by Heryng, that luminous electric rays can be transmitted through the bony walls of many healthy maxillary sinuses, has furnished us with a diagnostic aid of con- siderable value. In order to effect this the following method is adopted :—Should the patient wear a dental plate, he is directed in the first instance to remove it; the room is then darkened, or the patient's head and shoulders, along with those of the observer, are enveloped in a black cloth, great care being taken to exclude every source of ex- traneous light. A small electric 8-volt lamp of about 1 ampere current is employed. This is fitted to a special tongue-depressor, which is provided with a detachable vulcanic plate. The electrical current can be obtained from a suit- able accumulator. The tongue-depressor is placed in the centre of the mouth and the patient's lips are closed upon its stem. He is then directed to close his eyes. Contact is made by pressure upon a button in the handle of the spatula. Three phenomena of illumina- tion may be met with. The rays of light traversing the maxillary cavities may become visible to the observer on the cheeks of the patient as a small crescent-shaped zone of light situated immediately below each eye. This illuminated area varies in size and in intensity, but it indicates that the rays have penetrated the cavity. In most cases the light is trans- mitted through the soft tissues of the cheek, producing a considerable area of illumination, which, however, must not be taken into con- sideration. The rays as they pass through the roof of the antrum and the coats of the eyeballs are thrown upon the retinae, and are perceived by the patient as a subjective light sensation ; this phenomenon was first pointed out by Brown Kelly. It is also possible in many cases, after the patient has been directed to open his eyes, for the observer on looking through the pupils to see the light reflection. A comparison of the results obtained on the two sides is then made. While variations in the intensity of the illumination on the two sides are met with, it is not common to find in healthy antra complete opacity on one side associated with a bright area of illumination upon the other. If illumination is negative, it occurs more fre- quently on both sides. The subjective sensa- tion of light and the pupil reflection also vary to some extent in health, and the latter test is perhaps better left out of account. When the mucous membrane of the antrum is inflamed and the cavity contains pus, or when it is110 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES occupied by a solid growth, the luminous rays as a rule either do not pass through it at all or only to a very slight extent. When there is cystic dilatation of the antrum, on the other hand, the illumination is intensified. In unilateral inflammatory affections of the antrum, therefore, illumination of the diseased side does not as a rule occur, so that a distinct contrast with the opposite healthy side is obtained. When both antra are affected so that no com- parison is thereby possible, the test loses its value, and we must further remember that opacity of both cheeks may be due to a normal anatomical condition of the parts. As the result of a large number of observations, I am led to conclude that in the majority of cases of antral disease the afi^ected sinus fails to illuminate. This is evidenced by the complete opacity of the infra-orbital region of that side, and by the inability of the patient to detect any subjective light sensation. Sometimes there is a faint illumination upon the suspected side, along with some degree of light perception, but the former still distinctly contrasts with the opposite healthy side. Occasionally, but in my experience rarely, a case is met with in which the aff'ected sinus illuminates like its healthy neighbour. When opacity of the cheek is associated with pus in the middle meatus, which reappears after Frankel's posture test, there is sufficient presumptive evidence of disease in the corre- sponding antral cavity, and exploratory puncture of the sinus is not necessary. There is, how- ever, a second but small group of cases in which the suspected antrum is opaque, and where the opposite presumably healthy cavity only faintly illuminates, so that there is no distinct contrast. Such a case must suggest the possibility that there may be some anatomical reason for the opacity—both sides being so much alike—so that in such a case illumination is not of the same assistance, and an exploratory puncture is desirable. In cases of chronic suppuration non-illumina- tion is due more to the inflammation and thickening of the mucous lining than to the presence of pus in the cavity. This is shown by the fact that after a quantity of pus has been washed out of the antrum, and the test repeated, opacity remains. For the same reason the thickness of the pus bears no rela- tion to the density of the shadow produced. It has been suggested that in those cases in which the antrum merely serves as a reservoir for pus secreted in the frontal sinus, opacity of the cheek is less pronounced than when it is actually secreted in the antrum itself. I have been unable to satisfy myself of this, and am inclined to think that an antrum cannot remain merely a reservoir for long, but must soon become actually infected. Illumination further assists us in arriving at a knowledge of the progress of the case towards recovery. When a diseased cavity, previously opaque, again illuminates, we have evidence of the restoration of its lining membrane towards a more normal condition. At the same time its failure to illuminate must not be taken to imply that a cure has not resulted. Regnier and Glover have suggested the use of the X-rays for testing the transparency of the maxillary sinuses. Until this method of research is brought more within the reach of the clinician it is not likely to supersede the illumination above described. If the various features of the case already enumerated, when studied together, still fail to convince the observer that the antrum is aff'ected, he must proceed through an explora- tory puncture to inflate or syringe out the cavity. The presence of pus in the middle meatus, associated with some degree of foetor and bad taste, and the existence of one or more carious teeth, is suggestive of antral suppura- tion. If, further, discharge reappears after stooping, and the cheek of the suspected side is opaque, the evidence is strongly presumptive. It is, however, only conclusive when pus is blown or washed out of the cavity. Before proceeding to carry this out the nasal chamber, including the middle meatus, must be carefully cleansed of every trace of pus by means of cotton-wool mops, or by syringing. This cannot be too strongly insisted upon, otherwise the test loses its value. If the lotion injected through the maxillary sinus passes thence through a nasal cavity which has not been thoroughly cleaned, there is no guarantee that the discharge washed out was not secreted in the frontal sinus or anterior ethmoidal cells. This fallacy is avoided by preliminary cleansing of the nose. One of the following methods of puncture may be employed :— (d) Exploration through the Outer Wall of the Inferior Meatus of the Nose.—This is, as a rule, a simple procedure, and is the most serviceable in doubtful cases, because in the event of the cavity proving to be healthy no inconvenience results such as might follow^ a temporary opening through a septic cavity like the mouth. The area selected lies immediately below the attachment of the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body where the bone is thinnest (Fig. 4). That structure and the mucous membrane of the outer wall of the inferior meatus are cocainised. If the turbi- nated body be turgescent, and tend to obscure the wall beneath it, the cocaine will reduce the swelling. A fine Lichtwitz's trocar and cannula, a Krause's or a Sprenger's trocar, is then intro- duced through a Thudichum's nasal speculum, the instrument being guided by the eye with the aid of good illumination. The trocar should be directed outwards and upwards; a firm push may be necessary before the wall is perforatedNOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 111 and the cavity entered. The sensation of pass- ing through bone, the somewhat sudden release of the point of the instrument and its mobility, will testify to its presence in the sinus. Occa- sionally a case is met with in which the bone offers so much resistance that some other route must be adopted. It is rare to find pus flow outwards through the cannula, so that the con- dition of the cavity must be investigated by the inflation of air or by washing out. For the purpose of inflation a piece of india-rubber tubing, to which a Politzer's bag is attached, is passed over the outer end of the cannula. The operator's left hand holds the nasal speculum and instrument, while with the right the bag is compressed. The middle meatus is carefully in- spected during the act, and the secretion looked for in it. In order to wash ovit the sinus, a Higginson's syringe with a fine nozzle is at- tached to the cannula, and a warm boracic or warm sterilised salt solution is gently injected. During this procedure the patient should lean slightly forwards over an empty basin, and as the stream of fluid passing through the natural orifice of the antrum flows from the nasal cavity into the basin, it is examined for the detection of abnormal secretion. (e) Exploration through the Natural Opening or Ostium Maxillare.—The introduction of a suitably curved cannula through the hiatus semilunaris into the orifice of the antrum, while recommended by some operators for diagnostic purposes, is by no means an easy procedure. The concealed position of the orifice renders this difficult, and when the mucous membrane is swollen, and small polypi surround the hiatus, the operation is rendered still more difficult. A Hartmann's curved cannula is recommended for this purpose. (/) Exploration through the Socket of a Carious Tooth.—This procedure is a therapeutic as well as a diagnostic one. When there still exists some doubt as to the exact condition of the maxillary sinus, the socket of a diseased tooth—which is first extracted—in relation to the floor of the sinus may be drilled and the cavity washed out (Fig. 1). Should pus be present a suitable plug can then be adapted, as will be described under Treatment. {g) Exploration through the Canine Fossa.— For diagnostic purposes only this route is rarely employed. Should the examiner feel tolerably certain that he is dealing with antral suppura- tion, and in the event of the patient possessing a complete and sound set of teeth, a somewhat rare distinction, an opening may be made in this situation. This will serve to confirm the diagnosis, and at the same time provide a channel for the treatment of the diseased sinus. By adopting the above routine practice the surgeon will probably have convinced himself of the existence of chronic antral suppuration, or, on the other hand, have satisfied himself that the cavity is healthy. If he has failed to do so at the first sitting a second or a third examina- tion may have proved more satisfactory By establishing this diagnosis he has probably not excluded, however, the possibility of a co-existing frontal sinus or anterior ethmoidal cell suppura- tion. Although the antrum in a great number of cases is alone diseased, we know how fre- quently two or more of these cavities are affected in combination. When a considerable quantity of pus is observed in the nose, and only a scanty amount is washed out of the maxillary sinus, the suspicion of some further sinus mischief should be aroused. In some cases a diagnosis of frontal or ethmoidal suppuration is only made after the antrum has been for some time under treatment. If the examination has demon- strated the fact that the antrum is healthy, or if pus still flows into the middle meatus after that cavity has been washed out, it is necessary to proceed to a further investigation of the nose. B. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in the Frontal Sinus.—Under general symptomatology certain points were referred to which suggested that the source of the pus might be in the frontal sinus. Amongst these were noted its greenish colour and the absence of foetor; further, the more continuous flow of the dis- charge, its situation high up and anteriorly in the nose, and its non-appearance after the head has been bent forwards, were also commented upon. The frequent combination of sinus affec- tions, the close anatomical association of the various ostia, and the frequent changes in the position of the patient's head, must necessarily make these signs of little diagnostic value, even should all of them co-exist. (a) Reappearance of Pus in the Middle Meatus after Syringing the Antrum.—After the antrum has been syringed, and the middle meatus care- fully cleansed of every trace of pus, the patient should be directed to sit quietly for ten or fifteen minutes without inclining his head forwards even to a slight degree. At the end of this in- terval the nose is again examined, and if a drop of pus be observed in the middle meatus a suspicion of its origin in the frontal sinus is raised. The position of the ostium maxillare makes it impossible for secretion from that cavity to pass out into the nose in so short a space of time. This observation is assisted by the previous insertion of a wool tampon against the lower and posterior part of the hiatus semi- lunaris as recommended by Griinwald, so that the possible escape of secretion from the antrum is thus hindered. This test, however, does not exclude the possibility of some ethmoidal cell suppuration which is so frequently present along with frontal sinus disease. (h) Tenderness on Pressure upon the Flom' of the Frontal Sinus.—In applying this test pres- sure must be made with the finger upon the thin bony floor of the sinus beneath the innerNOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 112 third of the supra-orbital margin. Care must be taken to avoid the supra-orbital nerve lying somewhat externally; and, further, pressure must not be made on the bony margin of the orbit. It is a good plan to apply the test simultaneously upon both sides, the patient being asked to press down upon the fingers. A more equal distribution of pressure and a more accurate observation are thus obtained. It is very necessary to differentiate between a surface soreness, such as is elicited even in healthy individuals, and the more deeply-seated true pain. In many cases the patient readily admits the existence of this tenderness, and considerable reliance may be placed upon this sign as an aid in diagnosis when taken in con- junction with other phenomena; on the other hand, the patient's statement cannot always be relied upon. Percussion of or firm pressure upon the thicker anterior sinus wall may fail altogether to elicit tenderness over an affected cavity. (c) Redness, QHde^na, or Swelling in the Region of the Sinus.—Although these signs are more frequently evidence of an acute exacerbation, possibly resulting from an unusual retention of discharge, they may occur as transient pheno- mena in chronic cases. Careful observation and palpation may detect some slight degree of oedema or thickening upon the lower part of the forehead or in the upper eyelid. The patient may volunteer the statement that he has observed temporary swelling in this region. It has been stated that, after percussion over both sinuses, the redness of the skin thus produced remains for a longer period over an affected cavity than upon the healthy side, a point upon which I have never been able to satisfy myself. (d) Transillumination of the Frontal Sinus.— The same lamp is used as in antral illumina- tion, but the vulcanite plate is removed and a short tube of metal, vulcanite, india-rubber, bone, or ivory—the two latter being carefully blackened—is passed over the globe of the lamp. In this way the light is transmitted in one direction only, that is, through the open end of the funnel, which should project somewhat beyond the lamp. The room is darkened, or the head and shoulders of the patient and observer ai-e covered as before, and the end of the funnel having a direction upwards, inwards, and slightly backwards, is placed against the skin covering the floor of the sinus, beneath the inner third of the supra-orbital margin; great care should be taken to see that the edge of the funnel lies well beneath the bony margin of the orbit. When contact is made, an illumin- ated area indicating the frontal sinus of that side may be observed upon the lower part of the forehead. The same manipulation is then repeated upon the opposite side and the result noted. The junction between light and dark- ness indicates the position of the intervening septum. The intensity of the light and the area of its distribution varies in different skulls, and frequently upon the two sides of the same skull. A comparison of the two results ob- tained must be made and noted. It is also possible to illuminate both sinuses simultane- ously by transmitting the light through two tubes, as practised by Lubet-Barbon and Furet. The frontal sinuses cannot be illuminated by the mouth as has been suggested in some text- books. The diagnostic value of this test has been much discussed. Both on anatomical and clinical grounds I find it practically of no value in diagnosis. In my experience a diseased frontal sinus will illuminate just as brightly as its healthy neighbour. So far, therefore, in the diagnosis of frontal sinus suppuration we have to rely upon the exclusion of antral disease and upon the re- appearance of pus in the middle meatus of the nose, shortly after syringing out the latter cavity when it is affected. As this latter sign is consistent with suppuration in the anterior ethmoidal cells, we must endeavour to elicit tenderness on pressure l^pon the floor of the frontal sinus, and investigate the occurrence of oedema or redness of the skin of the forehead and upper eyelid. While all these signs furnish suggestive and even presumptive evidence of the disease, it is necessary to catheterise the sinus before establishing a diagnosis with any degree of certainty. (e) Probing and Catheterisation through the Ostium Frontale.—Although probing the sinus cannot be carried out in a number of cases, there is a large proportion in which this can be accomplished with considerable ease. Two anatomical difficulties, however, may present themselves: in the first place, there is a difficulty due to the presence of the middle turbinated body, and the narrowing and some- times irregular course of the infundibulum ; and, secondly, there is the risk of the instru- ment entering one of the anterior ethmoidal cells. The fact that such a cell may reach a considerably higher level than that of the floor of the frontal sinus only increases the difficulty of accurately estimating the exact position of the point of the instrument. The difficulties may be increased by such pathological con ditions as polypi or hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. Should the attempt to enter the sinus fail, then the anterior portion of the middle turbinated bone must be removed {see Treatment, p. 120). The operation is not a difficult one, and possesses the double advantage of first securing better access to, and later of ensuring better drainage from the sinus (Fig. 2). A day or two after the removal of that bone, and after cocainising the nose and thoroughly removing every trace of pus, a long fine silver probe is introduced through a Thudichum's speculum, its point being guided by the eyeNOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 113 with the aid of good illumination. The proxi- mal end of the probe must be bent downwards so that the operator's hand does not obstruct his line of vision; at the distal end of the instrument a curve 3 cms. in length is made, forming an angle of about 135° with the shaft. It may be found necessary to vary this curve slightly in different cases, so that its angle cannot always be stated with mathematical accuracy. Sometimes, too, it may be necessary to bend the extremity somewhat in a lateral direction. As in the majority of cases fewer ethmoidal openings lie on the inner or septal aspect of the fronto-nasal duct, it is advisable to keep the point of the probe towards the mesial plane, and even in contact with the outer surface of the upper portion of that part of the middle turbinated body which has not been previously removed. No force must be employed, but the instrument gently insinuated upwards and forwards until a sense of resistance makes further entrance impossible. The probe should then be grasped between the finger and thumb where the upper lip joins the nostril, and gently withdrawn. During its withdrawal the fronto-nasal region must be carefully ex- amined, and the reappearance of pus in the track of the probe noted. The portion of the probe which has been inserted is then laid against the outside of the nose, and the position of its point located externally. If, when held in this position, the point of the instrument is found to reach above the supra-orbital margin, it may be justly assumed that it had previously entered the frontal sinus. The distance of the floor of the frontal sinus from the anterior naris has been estimated by Hansberg as 60 mm. (6 cms.), while Cholewa found it to be 70 mm. In some cases, however, there remains a feeling of doubt as to whether the probe has really entered the frontal sinus or one of the anterior ethmoid cells grouped round the floor of the sinus. The Rontgen rays have been successfully employed in locating the end of the probe within the frontal sinus. The probe test should next be supplemented by the introduction of a frontal cannula. For this purpose Hartmann's may be used. I have found the pattern introduced by Brown Kelly of Glasgow very satisfactory, and fulfilling all the necessary requirements. To the proximal end of the catheter a piece of rubber tubing and a Politzer's bag are attached; inflation is then carried out during careful inspection of the interior of the nose. Pus mixed with air may then be seen to be driven downwards. Gentle syringing of the cavity may be substituted, and pus looked for in the lotion. The frequency of an associated frontal and ethmoidal suppuration undoubtedly increases the difficulty of diagnosing the existence of the former. If a considerable quantity of pus be expelled by inflation or syringing, suspicion of VOL. VII an aff"ection of the larger cavity will be raised, but it may be necessary to treat the ethmoid condition before it is possible to recognise that pus is coming from a higher source. There still remain some cases in which, in the present state of our knowledge, an external opening into the frontal sinus is necessary before an exact diagnosis can be arrived at. We must duly weigh all the clinical phenomena taken together, and not seek to draw a conclusion for or against frontal sinus suppuration from this or that individual sign. C. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in the Anterior Ethmoidal Cells.—We have already drawn attention to the fact that suppuration in the frontal sinus is very frequently associated with the same affection in the anterior ethmoidal cells. Similarly, the latter cells may also be affected in association with maxillary sinus disease though by no means with the same frequency. It may not be possible, therefore, to accurately establish the diagnosis of ethmoid cell suppuration without first satisfying ourselves as to the condition of these other cavities. Hence a diagnosis may be arrived at by a process of exclusion. The examination of the ethmoid region will be greatly facilitated by the removal of the greater portion of the middle turbinated bone, if this has not been already done when exploring the frontal sinus. If this bone should contain an air-cell the latter may be found to contain pus, while its lining membrane may be swollen and thickened. The field of observation is thus considerably enlarged, and a number of small polypi with pus oozing from between them may then be detected. If a fine probe, with its extremity bent somewhat outwards, be pushed upwards between these polypi in the direction of the ethmoid cells, an increased flow of puru- lent secretion may be observed to follow this manoeuvre. It has been asserted that the probe thus introduced comes in contact with granula- tion tissue and areas of carious bone. It must be borne in mind, however, that it is very difficult in this situation to conclude from the sense of touch whether the bone is actually carious, and whether the probe is in a cavity lined with granulations or with a healthy mucous membrane. After completing this part of the examination the polypi should be re- moved, and on a subsequent occasion the nose should again be carefully inspected and the source of the pus sought for. If the formation of the nasal chamber permit the examiner to localise the position of the hiatus semilunaris and bulla ethmoidalis, he should proceed to occlude the former by means of a cotton-wool tampon. The nose is then cleaned, and an attempt is made with a probe or cannula to enter the ethmoid cells lying above the bulla by passing the instrument upwards and out- wards. Inflation through the catheter may 8114 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES be followed by the blowing of pus into the middle meatus. If the ethmoidal cells situated more anteriorly and opening into the upper end of the infvindibulum are catheterised, some doubt will naturally arise as to whether pus blown down from this region has actually been secreted in these cells or has trickled down from the frontal sinus at a higher level. By repeated observation, by the removal of small polypi and portions of the bony framework of the lateral mass of the ethmoid, the source of the pus is thus gradually followed up and ascertained. This procedure not only leads to a diagnosis of the true condition, but forms in a large measure the preliminary stages of treatment. iv. Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in THE Posterior Group of Sinuses — The Sphenoidal Sinus and Postei'ior Ethmoidal Cells. —We have thus far endeavoured to trace the source of the suppuration in those cases in which anterior rhinoscopy has revealed the presence of pus in the middle meatus, and in which on posterior rhinoscopy pus has been detected upon the upper surface of the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinated body. A diagnosis of maxillary, frontal, or anterior ethmoidal cell suppuration has probably been established. Let us now assume that we have to deal with a patient in whom, on anterior rhinoscopy, the middle meatus is found free from pus, but purulent discharge is seen to lie in the olfactory cleft between the middle turbinate body and the septum nasi (Fig. 4). Suspicion is then directed to the posterior group of sinuses, the posterior ethmoidal cells, and the sphenoidal sinus. The similarity of the nasal phenomena which may be presented by each, and the fact that their close proximity renders them liable to be affected at the same time, makes a differential diagnosis sometimes difficult. We are therefore led to consider these air-spaces together. The clinical differenti- ation into two groups is not always so simple as the anatomical basis would indicate, as pus from the posterior ethmoidal cells may find its way into the middle meatus. Again, owing to the position of the ostia of the posterior group there is a greater tendency for the secretion to pass backwards into the naso-pharynx, and thus leave the interior of the nose more or less free. It must not be assumed, therefore, that in the absence of pus in the olfactory cleft there is no affection of the posterior group of sinuses. If the disease should co-exist in one or more sinuses of both groups the diagnosis is still further complicated. It may only be after excluding or treating disease in the anterior sinuses that we are led to suspect its existence in the posterior ethmoidal or sphenoidal cavities. Our knowledge of chronic suppuration in the latter cavity is largely due to the observations of Griinwald and Hajek. (a) Anterior Rhinoscopy. — When pios is observed in the olfactory cleft it should be carefully mopped out with cotton-wool pledgets and the region again inspected. If more secretion becomes visible, suspicion is aroused of its probable source in the posterior ethmoidal or sphenoidal cells. The removal of a crust in the same locality followed by a discharge of pus is also significant. Sometimes the olfactory fissure is occluded by swelling of the mucous membrane, and no pus is visible. If, under these circumstances, a purulent discharge follows the forcible introduction and with- drawal of a probe protected with a cotton-wool tampon, the same inference is drawn. Polypi are not frequently met with in this situation, although their occurrence has been described. (b) Posterior rhinoscopy plays a somewhat more important part in the examination of these cases. Owing to the situation of the posterior ostia, pus tends to pass backwards into the nasopharynx rather than forwards into the nose. Inspection of the vault probably reveals the presence of one or more crusts adherent to the mucous membrane. Intermixed with the crusts some fluid secretion may also be visible. In these cases a careful examination of the choanae must be made, because the presence of pus within one or other of these apertures is always very suggestive of the origin of the secretion in an accessory cavity. Should the discharge at the same time be visible upon the upper surface of the middle turbinate body, i.e. in the superior meatus, it is still more suggestive (Fig. 2). When it occurs in this latter situation the source of the pus from one of the sinuses of the anterior group is excluded on anatomical grounds. If it is difficult to obtain a thorough inspection of the naso- pharynx, cocaine should be applied and the palate-hook placed in position. The clinical picture presented by some of these cases is not unlike what is met with in that form of naso- pharyngeal catarrh which is associated with crust formation. Many cases are unsuccessfully treated as such for a considerable length of time; hence it is very important for diagnostic reasons to detect the presence of pus within the posterior naris and upon the middle turbinate body. It should be made a routine practice in all cases of naso-pharyngeal catarrh to inspect and probe the interior of the nose, keeping in mind the possibility of a sinus affection. (c) Ophthalmoscopic examination will prove of value in some instances. The eye changes that may be met with have already been referred to (p. 107). While the above signs are suggestive of suppuration in the posterior group of sinuses, it is as necessary here as in the case of the anterior group to accurately locate the sourceNOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 115 of origin of the pus. To effect this the middle turbinated bone should be removed in order to expose the anterior wall of the sphenoidal cavity. It is probable that in some cases this has already been partly done, where disease of the anterior ethmoidal or frontal sinuses has either been suspected or has actually been found to exist. It is true that cases are occasionally met with where a wide olfactory cleft permits of inspection of the sphenoidal orifice by anterior rhinoscopy, but such cases are extremely rare. Moreover, in some instances the superior turbinated body inter- feres with direct inspection of that opening, which is subject to variation in its position. The whole of the middle turbinated bone should therefore be removed (p. 120). (c?) Inspection, Probing, and Catheterisation of the Ostium Sphenoidale.—After an interval of two or three days the nose should again be inspected by anterior rhinoscopy, and all traces of crusts and purulent discharge in the post- nasal region thoroughly removed. This pro- cedure demands the same care as it did in the case of examination of the maxillary and frontal sinuses. The sphenoidal opening may then become visible (Fig. 2). Should pus be seen issuing from it, the diagnosis is established. Should no discharge be visible, a cotton-wool tampon must be packed against the ostium and left in position for half an hour. On its removal, the presence of pus on the deep sur- face of the wool will testify to its origin in the sphenoidal cavity. The introduction of a sphenoidal sinus cannula made after Griinwald's pattern, followed by inflation or syringing of the cavity, will furnish further proof of the presence of a chronic suppuration. It is re- commended that a probe should next be intro- duced, and an attempt made to ascertain the condition of the walls of the cavity. Great care should attend this manipulation, especially when the roof of the cavity is under examina- tion. As the sinus varies considerably in size in different skulls, it is impossible to form an accurate estimate of the distance to which the probe may be passed. If on anatomical grounds it is impossible to see the sphenoidal orifice by direct inspection, some authors advocate and practise perforation of the anterior wall of the sinus with a sharp instrument. Thus Schaffer has employed a spoon probe, while Spiess recommends an electromotor trephine. This operation, how- ever, demands the greatest care, and should not be undertaken without due regard to its possible dangers. Attention should next be turned to the ■diagnosis of suppuration in the posterior eth- moidal cells, whether occurring alone or in conjunction with suppuration in the sphenoidal cavity. The sphenoidal orifice should be plugged with a cotton-wool tampon after careful cleansing of its vicinity. If pus then collects in the nose anteriorly to the plug, or even stains the nasal surface of the wool, a suspicion of ethmoidal disease is raised. A probe with its point bent outwards should then be passed in the direction of these cells, and an attempt made to further investigate their condition. 7. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in THE Accessory Sinuses In considering the treatment of chronic sup- puration we must be guided by general surgical principles, and endeavour to determine in each case what pathological conditions are present and how they may be most satisfactorily dealt with. In all cases in which nasal polypi and hypertrophies of the mucous membrane exist they must be removed, so that partial occlusion of the natural orifices is got rid of, and freer drainage thus established. In the case of the antrum diseased teeth should be extracted, whether they can be definitely proved to be the causal factor or not.- When there is a polypoid condition of the lining membrane of the sinus, or when there is caries of its osseous walls, steps must be taken to deal with these conditions. The frequency of associated sinus mischief must be borne in mind, and the possibility that the sinus under treatment may be reinfected by pus, which is being secreted in one of the other cavities, must not be lost sight of. Until these points are elucidated and dealt with all the con- ditions of successful treatment cannot be fulfilled. A. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in the Maxillary Antrum. — In the treatment of chronic suppuration of this sinus one or two courses may be adopted: either to open the sinus through the socket of a tooth, and regu- larly wash it out for a varying period of time, or to perform a radical operation. Some difference of opinion exists regarding the choice of operation in every case. There are un- doubtedly a number of cases in which a course of irrigation suffices to effect a cure, though no definite statement can be made as to the length of time necessary to bring this about. There are other cases, again, which from the first are doomed to failure by this method, but un- fortunately we are not always able to say which these cases are. When the lining membrane of the antrum has been converted into polypoid tissue, only the radical operation will prove successful; when such changes have not taken place, a reasonable trial should be given to the simpler line of treatment. It is difficult, if not impossible, to say what the condition of the mucosa is unless one first opens into the sinus to see; and the ordinary alveolar opening does not permit of inspection of the cavity. The duration of the affection does not altogether help us, as cavities which have discharged pus for some years are sometimes cured under simple lavage, while those of more recent originNOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 116 may fail to be so. I have not found trans- illumination of any material assistance on this point; the density of the opacity does not guide us as to the exact condition of the lining mem- brane. In uncomplicated antral cases, therefore, if there is no reason to believe that any of the other sinuses on the same side of the nose are affected, the irrigation treatment should be given a fair trial. If, however, associated ethmoidal or frontal sinus suppuration exist, more radical methods should be resorted to from the first. A number of satisfactory re- sults will encourage the surgeon to advocate treatment by lavage. The opei-ation appeals to the patient, to whom, however, the possibility of failure and the necessity for further treat- ment should be explained. It can be readily performed under nitrous oxide anaesthesia, and it does not confine the patient to the house, while the after-treatment can be carried out quite independently of the medical attendant. At the same time, in a fair proportion of cases this method proves a failure, and after a tire- some course of syringing, and perhaps at con- siderable inconvenience to himself, the patient must submit to the radical operation. (i.) Treatment by Lavage.—In all cases in which nasal polypi and hypertrophies are present they must, in the first instance, be removed, so that there may be no interference with the free escape of the lotion through the natural antral orifice. For purposes of irriga- tion two routes are open to us, the nasal and the buccal. It is hardly necessary to do more than merely refer to irrigation through the nose. The natural orifice of the antrum may be at once dismissed, as it is impracticable for the patient and usually so for the surgeon. An opening made through the outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose below the anterior end of the inferior turbinated bone finds favour with some who have successfully practised it. It certainly has the advantage of not being connected with a septic cavity like the mouth; on the other hand, the patient often has a difficulty in finding the opening, which further has a tendency to rapidly close. It may be mentioned in passing that a cure has, in one or two cases, been reported following upon a single puncture of the nasal wall and irrigation of the cavity. The Alveolay- Opening.—This certainly forms the most convenient route, and the one most fre- quently selected. By adopting this method two important requirements are at once met, namely, the removal of a diseased tooth — the possible causative factor—and the opening of the cavity at its most dependent part (Fig. 1). The dis- advantage lies in establishing a communication with the mouth ; this may be, however, largely counterbalanced by inserting a solid plug into the aperture instead of the open drainage tube formerly employed. The operation can be performed under nitrous oxide gas, bromide of ethyl, or chloroform anaesthesia. The first or second molar tooth, if diseased, should be extracted, the socket pierced by one of the numerous forms of antral perforator, and the cavity entered. It is well to emphasise the fact that too small a hole must not be made through the alveolus. The teeth underlying the affected antrum should be thoroughly inspected, and where disease is detected either careful stopping or removal should be insisted upon, as it is foolish to attempt treatment of the sinus while carious teeth still remain in the jaw. Should a suit- able gap exist between sound teeth it may be utilised for a similar purpose. The cavity is next washed out with a warm sterilised or weak antiseptic solution, and a solid obturator is prepared for insertion. As our primary object is rather to maintain the opening thus made, so that syringing may be regularly carried out, and not to establish a dependent drain, it is better to employ a solid plug instead of an open drainage tube. In the latter case the patient is annoyed with the dribbling of pus into the mouth, while there is always an open track for fresh infection from that source, and for the introduction of food particles. To obviate this latter risk, some operators who use the open drain recommend plugging of the tube during meals. If, how- ever, the sinus be systematically syringed, any disadvantage which might accrue from a temporary accumulation of pus within it, is certainly less than the annoyance and risk of a tube which is always open. An obturator made of vulcanite, caoutchouc, or silver gilt proves very serviceable ; the proper length of the plug is ascertained by measuring with a probe bent at its point the depth of the track which has been made in the alveolus. Obviously it is very necessary to have this securely fastened in position, so that it may neither slip into the cavity nor drop into the mouth. Various methods are employed for this purpose. If the patient already wear a dental plate the plug may be attached to it, the wound in the alveolus being temporarily plugged with gauze while this is being prepared. Its attachment may be made to a neighbouring tooth by some form of ring, or in the absence of teeth a plate should be moulded to the jaw. Many of these points are best attended to by the dentist. If all the teeth are present and perfectly sound— a state of things not very frequently met with in these cases—a healthy tooth should not be sacrificed. The sinus may then be opened through the canine fossa, care being taken after perforating the bone to securely fix the plug in that opening. If, however, this method has to be adopted, I am in favour of making a fairly large opening in that fossa, inspecting the in- terior through it, curetting the lining mem-117 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES brane if necessary, and packing the sinus with gauze or worsted—in other words, performing the radical operation. The patient should be carefully instructed with regard to the method of syringing the cavity; some form of ball syringe, or the ordi- nary soft rubber Higginson syringe, to which a narrow nozzle has been adapted, will suit the purpose. Various non-irritating lotions are re- commended : a warm salt solution (3j.-0j.), a warm boracic or an alkaline lotion may be employed; a mild astringent, such as sulphate of zinc (grs. 2-5].), is sometimes used at a later stage. Protargol has been highly recommended by Alexander of Berlin; he introduces daily 50 cc. of a 5 per cent solution after syringing the cavity with sterilised water. A change of lotion is sometimes beneficial when healing is delayed. The plug having been removed, the nozzle of the syringe is introduced into the alveolar opening, and the patient, inclining his head forwards so that the lotion may flow out- wards through the anterior naris, gently syringes the cavity. It is important to bear in mind that forcible syringing must be avoided; I feel certain that with the head inclined forwards, infection of the anterior ethmoidal cells, or even of the frontal sinus, may and does sometimes occur as the result of too vigorous syringing. If the antrum be filled with water experiment- ally, and the head tilted forwards, some of the fluid is observed to flow readily along the in- fundibulum and fronto-nasal passage into the frontal sinus. Blocking of the hiatus semi- lunaris from polypi, or a swollen condition of its mucosa, would still further facilitate this. At the commencement of treatment the cavity should be syringed out twice or even three times daily, if the discharge is profuse and foetid. Later, as it gradually diminishes in quantity and the symptoms disappear, irriga- tion is carried out with less frequency, until a week elapses without syringing. If the lotion then passes through the cavity in a perfectly clear stream, and if at the end of a second and third week the same result is again noted, it may be considered safe to remove the plug and allow the track to close. Occasionally one finds that a minimum of discharge will cease alto- gether by discontinuing the irrigation which has really tended to maintain a slight catarrh of the mucous membrane. The alveolar open- ing, as a rule, readily closes; the obturator should be shortened so that the upper part of the track may first close before the plug is finally removed. The time required to obtain so desirable a result varies from a few weeks to several months. The question naturally arises as to the length of the period which is necessary to continue lavage in those cases which do not readily respond to treatment. It is impossible to estimate this from the point of view of time ; more reliable information is to be obtained by carefully observing the amount and the char- acter of the discharge, especially the latter. If, after lavage has been regularly carried out for three or four months, there still I'emains a definite quantity of thickish pus or muco-pus, unaffected by a change of lotion, the question of further treatment shoidd be considered. If there is no intranasal disease, and no evidence of suppuration in any of the other cavities which may be adversely influencing the an- trum, and the patient expresses himself as weary of the constant irrigation, the surgeon may then reasonably decide upon more radical measures. (ii.) The Radical Operation.—This consists in opening into the sinus, curetting its altered mucous lining, and dealing with carious or necrosed bone, should such be found, and then by appropriate after-treatment encouraging the formation of a new lining membrane. It is mainly in this way, though to some extent also by the filling up of the cavity with granulation tissue and its subsequent organisation, that an antrum thus treated heals. It is unfortu- nate, perhaps, that obliteration of the cavity is not possible. During recent years various procedures — some of which are merely old methods reintroduced—have been carried out with the object of putting the above principles into efl'ect. Opening through the Canine Fossa.—■ This operation is greatly facilitated by administering the chloroform from a Junker's inhaler through a metal tube, the end of which is passed into the nose or mouth; in this way the operator's view is not interfered with, and the patient can be kept more continuously under the influence of the anaesthetic. It is advisable also to insert a gag between the teeth on the side opposite to the diseased antrum, and to have a number of throat sponges prepared for immediate use. A sponge fixed on a holder should be introduced between the cheek and the molar teeth on the same side as the disease ; if this be frequently changed, it will be found of great assistance in preventing the blood from passing into the throat. The operator should also provide him- self with long strips of gauze for the purpose of controlling the hsemorrhage in the antral cavity. The operation should be conducted with every antiseptic precaution. The upper lip having been everted, an incision is made down to the bone through the fold of mucous membrane between the lip and the alveolus; this incision is carried from the canine ridge outwards to the malar process of the superior maxilla. The periosteum is then raised and retracted so that the whole area of bone form- ing the canine fossa is thoroughly exposed. With the aid of a chisel and mallet, a per- forator, or a small trephine saw, the antral cavity is then entered. The opening may be118 NOSE—INFLAMMATOEY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSOEY SINUSES enlarged by means of bone forceps, Zaufal's mastoid forceps being very useful for this purpose, or by electro-motor burs which are also very serviceable for smoothing the bony edges of the opening. While reflecting the periosteum and removing the facial wall in an upward direction, care must be taken not to injure the infra-orbital nerve and artery as they pass through the foramen of that name at a varying distance beneath the infra-orbital margin. The size of the opening made in the bone varies; some operators enlarge it so that the interior of the cavity may be carefully inspected and the little finger readily inserted in order to palpate the walls in every direction. Others, again, content themselves with a smaller opening; the larger one, however, is certainly to be preferred. Haemorrhage is controlled and the cavity dried ovit by plugging; at this stage of the operation good illumination reflected from a mirror or obtained from an electric forehead lamp is essential for a thorough inspection of the interior of the siniis. The altered mucous membrane is then scraped with a sharp spoon ; it is very necessary that the different walls and angles of the cavity should come within the reach of the curette so that no focus of disease is overlooked, a step which has a very important influence on the success of the operation. Special attention should be paid to the floor and the malar region. For this purpose sharp spoons or ring knives which can be fixed at different angles should be employed. 1 find the latter mounted on a pliable stem which can be bent by the operator to suit each case, of great use. The haemor- rhage, which is usually pretty free at this stage, should again be controlled by plugging, and on the removal of the gauze a thorough inspection of the accessible parts of the cavity is once more made and any suspicious area dealt with. Care must be taken while curetting the roof of the antrum and the angle between it and the facial wall that the infra-orbital nerve is not injured in its bony canal; further, that the recess con- cealed by the ridge of bone in which this canal so frequently runs must not be overlooked, and diseased membrane left untouched. Finally, the antral cavity having been thoroughly dried, is swabbed out with pure carbolic acid and then carefully packed with iodoform worsted or gauze, or carbolised gauze, the end of the dressing being left just within the cut edges of the mucous membrane, which fall together when the lip is released from the retractor. The after-treatment demands considerable care, and must be carried out with the greatest attention to surgical cleanliness. Two objects are aimed at—namely, the aseptic healing of the cavity, and the closure of the wound be- tween the antrum and the mouth. In order to diminish the risk of antral reinfection a small pad of sublimated wool or unprepared gauze wrung out of boracic lotion should be placed between the upper lip and the alveolus so as to cover the wound. This should be changed repeatedly during the day after the patient has taken food, and the surface of the wound should be gently syriiiged with boracic lotion. The mouth is frequently washed out with the same. The first dressing is not removed until the fifth or sixth day if the temperature and local appearances do not indicate its earlier removal. The cavity is then inspected, and again plugged and redressed every third or fourth day, the plug being finally removed, and the wound allowed to close at the end of the second or third week. The dressing is not painful if carefully done, and does not subject the patient to very much annoyance. The sterilised iodoform worsted employed is pre- served in 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate, which should be thoroughly wrung out immediately before insertion of the plug. To some patients the taste of iodoform is objectionable, but in these cases the double cyanide gauze or steril- ised gauze or worsted can be substituted at first dressing. It will be observed that the dry method of treatment alone is adopted. Personally, I have found this mode of treatment very satisfactory in a considerable number of cases, and have obtained good results with it. My experience does not agree with that of some who have found the after-treatment most dis- tressing to the patient, and the buccal wound a danger to the antral cavity. To one who has been syringing his antrum perhaps for months, the cessation of all further treatment on his own part and the cure of the condition in a com- paratively short time come as a great relief. As regards the closure of the aperture between the antrum and the mouth there is, as a rule, no difficulty, a permanent communication being rarely if ever established. The partial closure of the incision in the buccal mucous membrane by one or more stitches, either at the time of the operation or after the first or second dress- ing, will obviate this risk should it be feared. The alveolar track in which the plug has lieen worn usually closes readily; but to prevent infection of the cavity from that source its lower end may with advantage be kept plugged with the obturator for a few days after the operation, or, preferably, the track should be allowed to close a few days before the radical treatment is carried out. Opening through the Canine Fossa with a. Counter Opening through the Inferior Meatus of the Nose (Caldwell, Luc).—With a view to diminish or prevent the risk of reinfection of the sinus through the buccal wound, a modifica- tion of the previous operation is now practised. Its essential feature consists in the immediate closure of the incision in the buccal mucous membrane after establishing a large communica-NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 119 tion between the antrum and the nose. The opening in the canine fossa in the first instance is necessary as the interior of the antral cavity cannot be properly dealt with through the anterior naris. The main steps of the operation, as described by Luc, are as follows : — After everting the upper lip an incision commencing behind at the level of the first molar tooth is carried forward as far as the canine, the mucous membrane and periosteum being divided a few millimetres below the buccal fold between the alveolus and the cheek. In this way the intro- duction of the stitches at a later stage of the operation is facilitated. The periosteum is then raised, and a large opening sufficient to admit the finger is made through the facial wall, care being taken to remove the bone as far forwards as the junction of the facial and nasal walls of the cavity—that is, up to the canine ridge. By doing this the artificial opening into the nose is more easily made. The cavity is carefully curetted and inspected, and then swabbed out with a strong solution of chloride of zinc (1 in 10 or 1 in 5), and temporarily plugged with iodoform gauze so as to arrest the oozing of blood. The second stage of the operation is now carried out; the nasal chamber on the same side is first plugged with gauze so as to avoid injury to the septum nasi. By means of a gouge inti'oduced through the canine opening the antero-inferior portion of the nasal wall of the antrum is removed ; the electro-motor burs will greatly facilitate this step in the operation. The nasal mucous membrane is then dissected oif along with the anterior half of the inferior turbinated bone, and the establishment of a large communication between the sinus and the nose is thus ensured (Fig. 4). The antral cavity is again plugged from the mouth, and the end of the dressing passed through the naso-maxillary opening for future extraction by that route. The incision in the buccal mucous membrane is now closed with catgut sutures threaded upon a slightly curved needle. This wound is probably healed upon the third or fourth day, but care must be taken in the interim to prevent the contact of food with it. The plug is extracted from the antrum through the nose four or five days after the operation. The use of the handkerchief may then be found sufficient for getting rid of any abnormal secre- tion in the cavity; it is found advisable, how- ever, to wash it out through a curved cannula or Eustachian catheter during the succeeding four or six weeks. If at the end of that time, after an interval of seven days, the fluid is re- turned clear, the cure may be considered com- plete. This operation is not indicated when there is any co-existing sinus disease, or when antral suppuration is complicated with an atrophic rhinitis; under such circumstances reinfection of the antrum from the nose w^ould probably occur. The advantages claimed for this procedure by the authors are to be found in the rapid closure of the buccal wound with consequent diminution in the risk of reinfection of the sinus from the mouth, and in the avoid- ance of repeated plugging. On the other hand, the propriety of establishing a large permanent opening between the nasal and antral cavities is open to question. B. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration of the Frontal Simis.—When the treatment of this condition comes under consideration there are —as in the case of the antrum—two methods open to discussion —namely, irrigation of the sinus through the natural orifice by way of the nose, and the radical treatment by an external operation. In order to effect a cure in the majority of cases it is necessary to remove all intranasal disease so as to prevent reinfection of the sinus, to establish free drainage into the nose, and to restore the lining membrane of the sinus to a healthy condition. Further, these requirements must be satisfied with the least possible disfigurement to the patient. Owing to the situation of the ostium frontale at the most dependent part of the cavity, drainage is, as a rule, good, and probably for this reason there is a greater tendency to spontaneous cure in cases of acute frontal sinus suppuration than in similar conditions of the antrum. When the chronic form is met with, it may therefore be right to assume that it is due to imperfect drainage combined with an altered condition of the mucous membrane such as has already been described. It is undoubtedly the case that these changes are very frequently met with in the frontal sinus in chronic cases. Under these circumstances we naturally ask ourselves how far imperfect drainage and a thickened mucosa can be influenced by irrigation through the nose, and whether in any of these cases it is worth while giving this method of treatment a trial. It is true that occasionally a successful result is thus obtained, but far less frequently than in the case of the antrum. The disad- vantages of the method appear to outweigh the isolated cases of successful treatment. Further, the existence of anatomical irregularities and incomplete subdivisions of the sinus interfere with satisfactory irrigation of the whole cavity, while it is difficult to deal thoroughly through the nose with all the ethmoidal disease which is so frequently co-existent. Again, irrigation can- not be readily carried out by the patient him- self. It is necessary, in a word, to condemn any attempt to enter the frontal sinus by boring upwards from the nose through the floor of the cavity. A perusal of Spiess's paper dealing with this procedure aided by the Rdntgen rays does not lead one to modify views previously held regarding the danger of this method. As the technique of the external operation still further improves, in all probability we shall cease to consider such points as those just120 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES referred to, and in all cases at once proceed to perform the external operation. When persistent headache, pain referred to the sinus, or localised swelling indicate inefficient drainage, the operation should be urged upon the patient, so as to avoid the danger of orbital or intracranial complications. In proposing the external operation, it is only fair to point out to the patient that slight scarring is in- evitable, and that a certain amount of disfigure- ment may follow, though in many cases this is slight. The surgeon should himself bear in mind that it is sometimes necessary to perform a second operation, and that several fatalities have now been recorded, death being due to an acute septic infection of the cranial bones and meninges following operative interference. In all probability in these cases imperfect drain- age and incomplete removal of the diseased ethmoidal cells led to infection of the frontal diplbe and extension to the cranial contents. With due care in carrying out the operation such an unfortunate termination should be avoided. (i.) Irrigation of the Si7ms through the Ostium Frontale.—Although this is not advocated here as a routine method of treatment, it is necessary for the sake of completeness to refer to the procedure. The preliminary steps consist in snaring all nasal polypi that may be present, and in removing the anterior portion of the middle turbinated bone. To effect the latter Walsham's nasal scissors or Griinwald's forceps are introduced through the nostril, and under the guidance of the eye the attachment of the bone to the outer wall of the nose is divided. This section is made horizontally from before backwards through the thin neck of the bone lying above its more expanded anterior inferior extremity. The loop of a nasal snare is then passed along the incision thus made, and the portion included therein is removed (Fig. 2). All polypi thus brought into view must be dealt with, and by means of the punch forceps and the curette diseased ethmoidal cells are broken down and the passage into the sinus still further opened up. More than one sitting is probably necessary to effect this. After an interval of a few days an attempt should be made to pass the frontal cannida and wash out the sinus {vide Diagnosis, p. 112). A weak solution of boracic acid is useful for this purpose, and at first daily irrigation of the cavity may be practised with it. (ii.) The External Operation. — It is very necessary, as a preliminary and important stage of the radical treatment, to thoroughly remove from the nose all diseased tissue that is access- ible, along with the middle turbinated bone, some days prior to the major operation. Both eyebrows are shaved and the skin of the forehead carefully disinfected on the evening before the operation. The removal of both eyebrows, even in unilateral affections, is mainly for cosmetic reasons, as equality in the new growth of hair is thus ensured. Occasionally, too, in the course of the operation it has been found necessary to open both sinuses. It is unnecessary to interfere with the hair of the head, as during the operation it is covered with a sterilised or antiseptic towel. Boracic lotion alone should be employed during the operation, so as to avoid any injury to the eyes by the use of stronger solutions. A general anaesthetic is administered through a Junker's inhaler. Throat sponges and a gag should be held in readiness. Herbert Tilley recommends plugging of the posterior nares in order to prevent the passage of blood into the larynx; but this procedure is not essential. Very satisfactory access to the sinus, along with the least possible disfigurement, is obtained, in most cases, through the eyebrow incision. Should this be found insufficient at a later stage of the operation, a vertical cut may be made upwards from its inner end in the line of one of the natural furrows or wrinkles. The in- cision is commenced at the inner end of the supra-orbital margin at a point corresponding to the position of the fronto-nasal suture (Fig. 3). Thence it is carried upwards and out- wards to the supra-orbital notch following the curve of the bone. An incision of this length readily admits of the sinus being opened in the majority of cases. It can be prolonged out- wards at a later stage if the size of the sinus should render this necessary. It is difficult to avoid injury to the supra-orbital nerve and artery even when the sinus is of average size. All the structures are divided down to the bone, and bleeding is arrested. The soft parts, in- cluding the periosteum, are then raised and pulled upwards by a blunt hook or small re- tractor. The portion of the anterior sinus wall thus exposed lies immediately above the root of the nose, and occupies the interval between the mesial plane of the forehead and the most internal part of the supra-orbital margin (Fig. 3). If there is any doubt about the presence of a sinus or its size, or the position of the interven- ing septum, the area above described offers the surest site for entering the cavity. The thick- ness of the bone varies in different cases, but it is readily removed with a small chisel and mallet. The mucous lining of the cavity then shows itself as a dark blue membrane readily recognisable as such, whether in a healthy or diseased condition. In this respect it presents a distinct contrast to the white appearance of the dura mater. It may be noted further, that in the event of there being no sinus, the dura mater is not reached by chiselling until con- siderably more bone has been removed than what usually constitutes the anterior wall of a sinus in the majority of European skulls. When the raucous membrane has been exposed it is incised and a bent probe is introduced, soNOSE—TNFLAMMATOEY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 121 that the extent of the cavity in its various directions and the position of the intervening septum may be definitely ascertained. Pus probably escapes from the sinus during this manoeuvre. If the cavity is found to be a small one the opening is only slightly enlarged; but if there is a considerable upward or outward extension of the cavity, more bone must then be removed either with the chisel or with some form of cutting forceps. The supra-orbital margin for cosmetic reasons should not be inter- fered with, as a greater falling in of the soft parts follows in consequence of this. Practice differs with regard to the amount of bone that is taken away, a point which will be dealt with later. It must, however, be borne in mind that a large sinus can be satisfactorily treated with- out interfering to any great extent with its anterior wall, thus greatly lessening the risk of future disfigurement. After carefully mopping out the cavity with gauze and inspecting its interior so far as is possible, the thickened and often polypoid lining- membrane is curetted with the sharp spoon. The various curved instruments referred to under Antral Treatment are equally serviceable here. Careful attention must be directed to the investigation of all recesses and subdivisions of the cavity. This remark applies especially to the external angle of the sinus where these anatomical irregularities more frequently occur. Failure to remove the disease from such areas may render the treatment abortive. The septum and the condition of the bony walls must also be examined, and any deficiency in them duly recognised. The frequent backward extension of the sinus along the roof of the orbit must also be explored. The next step in the operation, and one on which m\ich of its success depends, consists in enlarging the ostium frontale and fronto-nasal passage in order to establish a free opening into the nose, and at the same time to remove every trace of diseased mucous membrane not pre- viously dealt with by intranasal treatment. This may be effected by means of sharp spoons of varying size. Herbert Tilley employs a series of curved burs of progressive sizes for this purpose. The operator may find it expedient, in the first place, to pass a probe from the sinus into the nose, which serves, so to speak, as a pilot. The diseased anterior ethmoidal cells are thus destroyed by curetting, and a large opening made through which the little finger may be passed. The cavity is then thoroughly dried and carefully inspected, after which its interior is swabbed with pure carbolic acid, and packed through the forehead incision with iodoform worsted or gauze, or with Lister's double cyanide dressing. The end of the worsted is brought out through the lower angle of the skin incision ; the periosteum and soft parts are replaced, and the wound accurately sutured, with the excep- tion of the small portion occupied by the end of the worsted strand. No drainage tube or strip of gauze is passed from the sinus into the nose. A superficial dressing and bandage, which neces- sitates the covering in of the eye at the same time, are applied. The after-treatment is regulated by the tem- perature and the appearance of the wound. It is advisable to remove the bandage in twenty- four or thirty-six hours in order to inspect the eye, as in one case I found that conjunctivitis had been accidentally induced during tlie opera- tion. If the wound follows an aseptic course the packing may be left in situ for seven or eight days, and then removed. The small aper- ture then readily closes, or healing may be assisted by the introduction of a suture. The stitches should be removed at the earliest oppor- tunity so as to avoid any future marking from this cause. The short curved incision does not lend itself to the introduction of a subcutaneous suture. Unfortunately, recurrence of suppuration in the sinus may take place, an undesirable result, which is probably due to its reinfection from the nose, from failure to remove all the diseased lining membrane, or from overlooking some area of carious bone. In some cases it is pos- sible by opening up the wound, and by daily irrigation and packing of the cavity, to again establish an aseptic condition, but it may prove necessary to carry out a second or even a third operation before a successful result is obtained. Several cases have now been recorded in which an acute osteomyelitis of the frontal bone has resulted from surgical interference, followed by meningitis or a general septicaemia terminating in death. I have thus endeavoured to sketch the opera- tion which is more or less successfully performed at the present time, and which appears to satisfy surgical requirements in the majority of cases. It closely resembles the method usually referi-ed to as the Ogston-Luc operation, although differ- ing in some minor points of detail. The latter surgeon after packing the sinus brings the lower end of the gauze plug into the nasal chamber, completely closing the skin incision. This plug he removes through the anterior naris two or three days later. Walker Downie, after bring- ing the outer end of the gauze strip through the opening in the bone, passes it through a small buttonhole incision made in the skin close to the reflection of the upper eyelid, and concealed beneath the supra-orbital margin ; the eyebrow incision is then completely closed. I have found this method satisfactory, permitting as it does accurate apposition of the edges of the wound, while the buttonhole is afterwards hardly visible. It possesses this disadvantage, however, that if the cavity should require to be repacked, it cannot be done through the buttonhole, and therefore it necessitates the reopening of the122 NOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES first incision. Herbert Tilley gradually removes the gauze plug through the forehead wound, cut- ting off about three inches every third day, and finally removing the remainder when the cavity is completely lined with healthy granulations. The employment of a drainage tube passing fi'om the sinus to the nose has now been practi- cally abandoned by nearly all operators, the worsted or gauze plugging having been sub- stituted. I woiild strongly urge that after a radical operation upon the maxillary or frontal sinuses treatment by packing should be carried out, and that all irrigation should, if possible, be dispensed with. Different methods of dealing with the anterior bony wall of the sinus must be briefly referred to. The question of the removal of bone is of considerable aesthetic importance, and must receive a due amount of consideration from the surgeon. Kuhnt advocated and practised com- plete removal of the anterior wall. When the cavity is small and shallow an attempt may be made to obliterate it by the apposition of the superficial soft parts against the posterior sinus wall, a procedure which is followed by a certain amount of depression of the skin surface. When the sinus is large and extends backwards along the roof of the orbit, it is impossible to completely obliterate it in this way, and the disfigurement which results from the removal of an extensive area of bone is considerable. The sex, age, and the feelings of the patient are factors which must be taken into account in reference to this point, while experience justifies us in promising, in a large number of cases, satisfactory results withovit the removal of the whole anterior osseous wall. Howard Lothrop in one case turned down from this wall a flap of bone and periosteum which he afterwards replaced. Jansen, recognising the frequent association of ethmoidal suppuration, has removed the inferior wall of the frontal sinus through an incision made immediately below and parallel to the supra-orbital margin. In this way more ready access to the ethmoidal cells was obtained. Osteoplastic operations have also been introduced by Czerny, Kuster, and Winckler, with the object of completely re- moving the disease with the minimum of dis- figurement. Skin - grafting of the anterior of the sinus by Thiersch's method will in the future probably play an important part in the after-treatment of these cases. Tilley has re- cently reported a successful case of this kind. When both frontal sinuses are affected some operators enter each cavity through a mesial vertical incision, and if both sinuses are small this single incision readily suffices. Others, again, unite the eyebrow incisions across the mesial plane, and from the centre of this carry a vertical cut upwards. In bilateral affections it certainly seems better to operate upon each cavity through a separate eyebrow incision. Two advantages may be claimed for this manner of procedure. The after-treatment of each sinus can, in this way, be carried out in- dependently, a point of some practical import- ance if one of the cavities should continue to suppurate; further, the scars are at the same time confined to the region of the eyebrow as in the case of a unilateral sinus affection. When the frontal and maxillary sinuses of the same side are affected both should be dealt with at one operation, in order that every source of infection may be removed from the nose at the same time. Should the surgeon deem it advisable to complete the operation in two stages, it is better to open the frontal sinus in the first instance, so as to prevent any re- infection of the antrum by discharge passing downwards from the untreated frontal sinus. C. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in the Ethmoidal Cells.—In discussing the treatment of frontal sinus suppuration we have already referred to the frequent co-existence of disease in the anterior ethmoidal cells, and have shown how the latter affection must be dealt with when thus associated. The treatment of eth- moid disease per se is conducted along similar lines, with this difference, however, that it is carried owt entirely through the intranasal route. The general svirgical principles involved consist in the establishment of free drainage and the removal of every focus of diseased mucous membrane; the possible existence of suppuration in one or more of the other sinuses must always be borne in mind and systemati- cally dealt with, otherwise failure to cure the ethmoid affection will result. The method of operating will depend to a large extent upon whether the disease is limited or extensive. In the former case cocaine is applied, and with the aid of good illumination the polypi which are present are in the first instance snared, and the greater portion of the middle turbinated bone removed. At subseqiient sittings the process of snaring, punching, and scraping diseased mucous membrane and bone is repeated until the surgeon has satisfied himself, if possible, by careful inspection and probing, that every trace of disease has been removed. Owing to haemor- rhage which masks the field, and in some cases owing to the patient's inability to tolerate a prolonged sitting, several operations are neces- sary, even in those cases in which the disease does not appear to be extensive. The ethmoidal region may be temporarily plugged with gauze so as to control bleeding, but it is not advisable so long as foci of suppuration exist to check the free exit of discharge by firm packing. In the second group of cases, where the disease is extensive and appears to involve the whole ethmoid labyrinth, a more complete operation, carried out at one sitting and under a general anaesthetic, is recommended. The operation is conducted under such circumstancesNOSE—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF ACCESSORY SINUSES 123 by the sense of touch, and not under the guidance of the eye. Lambert Lack, who strongly advocates this line of procedure in suitable cases, examines the ethmoidal region with the finger introduced both through the anterior and posterior nares. The middle tur- binate bone is removed with the spokeshave, and large polypi by means of forceps. The lateral mass of the ethmoid is then thoroughly scraped away with a large ring knife, an instru- ment which he considers much more effective than the sharp spoon. From time to time the finger is introduced so as to determine the presence of diseased areas of bone, and to define the limits of the healthy tissue determined by its smooth, firm, and resistant feel. It is un- necessary to emphasise the necessity of exercis- ing the greatest care when working in proximity to the cribriform plate and os planum of the ethmoid bone. At the end of the operation all haemorrhage is arrested by packing the cavity with a strip of gauze soaked in glycerine- iodoform emulsion, which should be changed every second or third day and the nose syringed. This radical procedure, which has been attended with very considerable success in Lack's hands, is advocated on the grounds that it is less irksome, tedious, and painful for the patient, and that more satisfactory results are thus obtained. Those cases of ethmoid disease which are associated with orbital phlegmon and abscess, or with the formation of an orbital fistula, demand an external operation in addition to the usual intranasal treatment. In the latter case the fistula must be enlarged, and the communication with the ethmoid cells sought for. Where there is no external opening the labyrinth may be entered through a curved incision closely resembling that employed in opening the frontal sinus, but which is pro- longed downwards towards the inner canthus of the eye. By raising the periosteum along with the soft parts the inner wall of the orbit is exposed. If a communication with the bone is found it is opened up, the ethmoid cells curetted, and a free passage established with the nasal chamber. By the use of gauze pledgets the haemorrhage may be satisfactorily controlled. After swabbing the cavity with pure carbolic acid it is plugged with gauze, and the external wound is partially closed. D. Treatment of Chronic Suppuration in the Sphenoidal Sinus.—The removal of the middle turbinated bone, which has already been effected for diagnostic purposes, or which may have been removed in the treatment of ethmoidal disease, forms a necessary preliminary stage in the treatment of sphenoidal sinus suppuration. The subsequent steps should consist in the establishment of free drainage, and in the removal as far as possible of all diseased mucous membrane. While it is true that in a certain number of cases the natural opening can be catheterised and the cavity in this way satisfactorily washed out, it must not be forgotten that the orifice is small, and is usually situated some distance above the floor of the sinus. Better drainage can therefore be established by breaking down the anterior sinus wall, a procedure which also permits of the subsequent introduction of the curette, and the scraping of the interior of the cavity. The operation is performed through the anterior naris under cocaine anaesthesia, and with the aid of good illumination. Hajek introduces a small but strong hook into the sphenoidal opening, and, so to speak, tears down its anterior wall, the pieces of bone and mucous membrane thus partially detached being then removed with forceps. The same result may be obtained by means of a sharp spoon, and into the orifice thus enlarged one of the blades of a pair of pvmch forceps, as recommended by Griinwald, is introduced : portions of the bone are then rapidly punched out, and the opening considerably enlarged both downwards and laterally, the greater part of the anterior wall being in this way removed. The cavity is then packed with gauze for twenty-four hours. In the majority of cases this opening tends to contract and close comparatively early. Should it be deemed advisable or necessary to scrape the sinus, the sharp spoon must be employed with care, and mainly in a downward direction, so as to avoid any pressure upon the thin roof of the cavity. Indeed, in all manipulations connected with diagnosis and treatment due care must be exercised in dealing with the upper and outer walls of the sinus. The swabbing of its interior with pure carbolic acid, followed by irrigation at intervals, may greatly improve the patient's condition, and lead to a permanent cure. Griinwald, whose experience in the treatment of sphenoidal sinus disease is considerable, has obtained very satisfactory results. Several of his cases com- pletely recovered in a few weeks, while in none of them did the period of treatment exceed four months. Both Jansen and Luc have opened the sphenoidal sinus through the antrum in cases complicated with disease in that cavity and in the ethmoidal cells. By making a large opening in the canine fossa and resecting the nasal wall along with portions of the middle and inferior turbinated bones, the anterior wall of the sphenoidal sinus was exposed to view and then removed. Nose—Foreign Bodies, etc. Foreign Bodies . . . . .124 Rhinoliths 124 Parasites . . . . .124 Nasal Hydrorrhcea . . .125 Cerebro-spinal Rhinorrhcea . . .125 Etiology. — Foreign bodies may enter the nasal chambers — (1) through the anterior124 NOSE—FOREIGN BODIES, ETC. nares; (2) through the posterior choanse ; or (3) by penetrating the walls of the cavities. They may also arise in situ in the form of necrosed sequestra and rhinoliths. This last group will be considered separately. The majority of cases occvir in children. It would be impossible to enumerate the various articles which they have in play pushed into their nostrils, but the list would include buttons, beads, peas, beans, fruit-stones, and the like. Lunatics sometimes introduce various articles through the anterior nares. In adults the most common objects are portions of cotton- wool or gauze, which have been inadvertently left in during treatment. Foreign bodies may gain access to the nostrils through the posterior choanse during violent vomiting. When sub- stances reach the cavity through its walls it is generally due to some external force—frequently some firearm. Symptoms.—-These will vary according to the size, nature, and situation of the substance in- troduced. There may be some discomfort and irritation, or even a considerable amount of reaction, but in many cases the introduction is followed by a period of tolerance, which may last from a few days to ten, twenty, or forty years. Sooner or later reaction sets in, and is manifested by an ichorous, one-sided, foetid discharge, which is frequently blood-stained. Nasal obstruction and various reflex symptoms may be present. With good illumination and nasal speculum and a probe the presence of a foreign body can generally be definitely demonstrated. In young children it is frequently necessary to give a general ansesthetic, when not only can the diagnosis be confirmed, but extraction can also be completed. Diagnosis.—The history of the accident may help in the diagnosis, and in children the pres- ence of a chronic unilateral discharge, especially when offensive, is always suggestive of a foreign body. It may be mistaken for a rhinolith or syphilitic necrosis, but as the treatment is identical in all cases the diSerentiation is not important. In adults it might be mistaken for an empyema, and in children it must not be confused with nasal diphtheria or membranous rhinitis. Prognosis. — Once the foreign body is ex- tracted the symptoms it gave rise to speedily disappear. Treatment. — The probe used for diagnosis will frequently be of help in levering the sub- stance into a suitable position, whence it can be extracted with a small crotchet hook, nasal snare, or suitable forceps. This should always be carried out under the control of the eye. In children, a general antesthetic is frequently required. If it is found impossible to remove the foreign body through the anterior nares it may be pushed backwards into the naso-pharynx. where the forefinger of the left hand is ready to prevent it from falling into the gullet or larynx. The after-treatment consists in simple cleans- ing measures. Rhinoliths Synonyms.—Nasal calculi, concretions in the nose. Etiology.—Nasal concretions are generally one- sided, irregularly spherical, grey, friable, and with a rough mulberry surface. On analysis they are found to consist of various salts, chiefly phosphate and carbonate of lime. On section it is seen that these salts have been deposited around a nucleus of some foreign body, or perhaps some blood-clot or inspissated mucus. Symptoms. — These will to a considerable extent resemble those caused by a foreign body. A one-sided discharge and obstruction are the chief indications for a careful exploration of the affected nostril, when the probe will generally settle the diagnosis. Diagnosis. — This frequently cannot be definitely determined until the rhinolith has been extracted, but the provisional one of some foreign body is sufficient (vide Foreign Bodies, supra). Prognosis.—Once completely removed, there is no tendency for nasal calculi to reform. Treatment.—This is carried out on precisely the same lines as indicated in the section on foreign bodies. In some cases, owing to the continuous accretions to the outer surface and the irregularity in their development, it is sometimes necessary to crush the rhinolith and syringe out the fragments from the opposite cavity. Parasites of the Nose Synonyms. — Myiasis narium, larvae in the nose, maggots in the nose, Entomo-zoaria in the nose, animate foreign bodies in the nose, Peenash (a term used in India). Symptoms.—The occurrence of animate foreign bodies within the nasal chambers is fortunately very rare in temperate climates. In India, South America, and other tropical countries, the presence of larvse in the nose is not un- commonly met with in the natives, in whom it is associated with extensive ulceration of the nasal cavities, pain, epistaxis, septicaemia, and sometimes convulsions, coma, and death. The eggs of certain flies of the order of Muscida;— and chiefly the Lucilia hominivora — are de- posited in or near the nasal cavities, to which they are particularly attracted by any purulent condition. The incubation period is short, and within a day or two symptoms of irritation may be set up. How acute these may be can be judged from the fact that sometimes as many as two hundred maggots have been expelled in a single case. Fortunately, these larvae can be125 NOSE—FOREIGN BODIES, ETC. readily destroyed and removed by spraying or pouring any oily substance into the nose, or syringing it with chloroform mixed with an equal quantity of water, or pure chloroform may be used after the patient has been anaes- thetised. Amongst the Entomo-zoaria which are rarely met with in the nasal fossae are leeches, centi- pedes, earwigs, and ascarides. The symptoms will usually consist of formication in the nose, discharge, obstruction, vomiting, lachrymation, sleeplessness, and excitement. The most trust- worthy remedy is chloroform, given as already indicated. Nasal Hydrorrhcea Synonyms.—Rhinorrhoea, dripping from the nose. Definition. — An obscure nasal affection characterised by profuse watery discharge from the nostrils, without marked visible changes in the nasal chambers. Etiology.—-The affection is one of adult life, and sufferers are generally of the same type as those who are affected with hay fever. Pathology.—There are no marked changes in the mucous membrane of the nose. The fluid, however watery it may appear as it falls from the nose, is found when collected to be thick, viscid, and slightly opalescent. Under the microscope it shows amorphous matter and mucous corpuscles. With acetic acid or alcohol it gives a stringy precipitate of mucin. It con- tains a small amount of proteid coagulable by heat, it does not reduce Fehling's solution, and it contains 1"208 of total solids. When the fluid amounts, as it does sometimes, to a pint or more in the day, it is less viscid and much weaker in mucin. Symptoms.—The chief complaint is of a watery discharge from the nose, varying from a few tea-spoonfuls to a pint or more in the twenty-four hours. The fluid generally escapes from both nostrils, although it may be more marked on one side than on the other. The flow rarely continues during the night. It is apt to be erratic in its onset and in its inter- missions. In some cases nothing but the dis- comfort is complained of, while in others there are symptoms of local irritation and of reflex disturbance. Handkerchiefs soaked with dis- charge become stiff when they are dried, owing to the amount of mucin in the secretion. Diagnosis.—This is based on the characters of the fluid, and on the exclusion of any intra- nasal or neighbouring sources of irritation. Prognosis.—The aff"ection is without serious- ness to life. Spontaneous cessation will fre- quently occur, and remedial measures are generally successful in mitigating the dis- comfort of the complaint. Treatment.—Unless there is any decided hypertrophy or irregularity in the nasal chambers, or some definite sensitive spots can be discovered, the use of the galvano-cautery or other caustic should be avoided. The pro- fuseness of the flow can often be checked by painting or spraying the nose with a solution of suprarenal extract. The administration of liquor atropise in i or 1 minim doses, especially in combination with liquor strychnise, or of 2V-yV grain of extract of belladonna, is par- ticularly serviceable. General treatment, with change of climate and a visit to some suitable spa, will frequently secure very satisfactory results. Cerebro-spinal Rhinorrhcea Synonyms.—Dripping from the nose, escape of cerebi'o-spinal fluid from the nose. Definition.—This is apparently a rare occur- rence, in which the cerebro-spinal fluid can spon- taneously escape from the anterior fossa of the skull and pass into the nose. Symptoms.—It has long been known that after injuries to the base of the skull the arach- noid fluid can escape by way of the nasal fossse, but it does not appear to have been positively established as a pathological possibility that this escape could take place spontaneously until the publication of a monograph by St. Clair Thomson with a critical study of twenty-one cases.i From this it appears that the chief, and often only complaint is of a constant and long- continued escape of watery fluid from one side of the nose. If collected the fluid is found to be limpid like water, free from taste, smell, and sediment; albumin and mucin are practically absent from it, and when boiled with Fehling's solution there is a reduction of the copper (due to pyrocatechin or some similar body). Diagnosis.—It is important to distinguish this watery discharge from other forms of rhinor- rhoea. This is arrived at to some extent by a process of exclusion, but also by noting the characters of the fluid and the fact that when handkerchiefs soaked with it are dried they remain soft, and can be used again (owing to the absence of mucin). Prognosis.—The condition does not appear to be amenable to any treatment, although in some instances the flow appears to have ceased spontaneously, and it will often intermit for irregular periods. Several of the cases recorded have been followed by changes in the retina and blindness, and by cerebral symptoms and death. Possibly these accidents will become rarer when the true nature of the condition is recognised in good time. Pathology.—The fluid may escape from the cranium along the perineural sheaths of the branches of the olfactory nerves, or by a com- munication between the subarachnoid space and the lymph channels of the nose, or by a ^ The Cerebrospinal Fluid: its Spontaneous Escape from the Nose. London : Cassell & Co., 1899.126 NOSE—FOREIGN BODIES, ETC. simple solution of continuity in the dura mater lining the anterior fossa of the skuU. Treatment.—No remedy has been suggested for this affection, and if possible it is advisable to refrain from all intranasal treatment to avoid the risk of infection being conveyed to the meninges. NOSO-.—In compound words noso- as a prefix signifies relating to disease (Gr voVos, sickness); e.g. nosopoetic or nosopoietic (patho- genic, causing disease), and nosotraphic (en- couraging disease). NoSOCOmia,!. — Relating to a hospital {nosocome, a now obsolete word, signified a hospital). NoSOg^GnesiS.—The origin of diseases. NoSOgfra.phy.—The description of dis- eases in a systematic manner. NoSOlOg'y.—^The science of the investiga- tion of diseases, including nosography. NoSOnri£l,nia..—A morbid fear of disease, or a delusion felt by the patient that he is ill when he is not; hypochondriasis. IMOSOnomy.'—-The nomenclature of dis- eases, or " the doctrine of the natural laws by which diseases occur." Nosophen.—-An antiseptic powder, an iodine compound of phenolphthalein (tetraiodo- phenolphthalein), which has been used as a substitute for iodoform; it is tasteless and odourless, and is insoluble in water and acids but soluble (to some extent) in alkalies and in ether. Dose—5 to 8 grs. It is most often used externally. Nosophobia^! — A form of monomania, in which the patient is morbidly apprehensive of some disease (from which he is not really suffering) and takes the strictest precautions against it and for its treatment. Nostalgfia,.—Homesickness (Gr. vocttos, home-return, and aA.yos, pain) of a severe type; in an exaggerated form it is termed nostomania. Nostras!a. See Nostalgia. Nostril. See Nose. Nostrum.—A drug or medicine, usually of the nature of a quack remedy; the word contains the idea (Lat. noster, our) that the medicine is prepared by the person recommend- ing it. Notaig^ia.—Pain in the back (Gr. VUITOV, back, aXyos, pain), usually without inflammatory symptoms. Notch.—A V-shaped indentation or de- pression or nick in the margin or border of a structure, e.g. the acetabular or cotyloid notch in the innominate bone, and the suprascapular notch in the upper border of the scapula. Notencephai us.—A teratological type in which the posterior part of the cranial vault is absent and the exposed brain rests upon the nape of the neck. Nothnag^el's Symptom.—A type of facial paralysis, in which the motor defect is more marked in connection with emotional conditions than with voluntary movements. Nothnag^ei'S Test.—It has been ob- served experimentally that a crystal of chloride of sodium placed upon the exposed intestine of a rabbit causes ascending peristalsis, and it has been thought that the circumstance might be used as a means of ascertaining the direction of any piece of bowel involved in abdominal operations in the human subject. Notifiable.—A term applied to a disease [e.g. an infectious fever) which should be made known to some authority by notification. Notification. — The reporting of an infectious disease by the medical attendant or the nearest relative of the patient suffering therefrom to some authority, such as the medi- cal officer of health. A special form of certi- ficate (supplied gratis by the Local Authority) must be used, and a small fee (2s. 6d. for cases in private practice, and Is. for cases in a public institution) is paid to the medical practitioner reporting ; the penalty for neglect of notifica- tion is a fine of 40s. The notifiable diseases are smallpox, cholera, diphtheria, membranous croup, erysipelas, scarlet fever, typhus fever, typhoid fever, relapsing fever, continued fever, and puerperal fever, and any other disease {e.g. measles or tuberculosis) which the Local Authority may add to the list. The advan- tages of notification are obvious : it gives early indication of the presence of a disease which may become epidemic, it gives a clue to the cause of the same, it indicates in what areas sanitary conditions are defective, and it permits of speedy (compulsory or voluntary) removal of patients to fever hospitals. See Vital Statistics {Notification of Sickness); Infectiox {Prophylaxis); Lung, Tuberculosis {Treatment, Prophylactic Public Measures, Notification) ; Scarlet Fever {Treatment, Limitation, Notifi- cation). NotOChord.—The primitive rod or bar developed from the hypoblast or entoderm which forms the skeletal axis of the embryo, and round which, at a later date, the vertebral column develops. See Embryology, Human {Third Week); Fcetus and Ovum, Develop- ment of {Segmentation, etc.).NOTOMELUS 127 Notomelus.—A teratological type of the disomata in which a supernumerary limb is attached to the back of the autosite. NotomyelitiS. — Inflammation of the spinal cord. Novaspirin.—The methylene citric acid ester of salicylic acid, which forms a white, slightly acid powder, easily dissolved in alcohol; it has been used as a substitute for aspirin in rheumatism, neuralgia, and influenza ; the dose is 10 to 15 grains. NOVOCa.ine.—A local anaesthetic; chemi- cally, it is an amino-alcohol, being the hydro- chloride of ^-aminobenzoyl-diethylaminoethanol; it is readily soluble in water. It is claimed for it that it has no irritating action, that it is much less toxic than cocaine, and that, in normal doses, it does not affect the circulation or respiration and produces no mydriasis; it may be combined with suprarenin borate. It has a large field of usefulness in operative procedures where general ausesthesia is not de- sirable, as in operations on the eye and throat (5 per cent to 10 per cent solutions being used) and in minor surgery (e.g. curettage, opera- tions on piles, tooth stopping, when a 2 per cent solution may be injected hypodermically) ; for injection into the spinal canal to produce lumbar anaesthesia, a 5 per cent solution is usually employed. Nubecula,.—Cloudiness or opacity of the cornea. See Cornea {Opacities). Nubility.—The state of sexual develop- ment when child-bearing may be carried through with safety to both mother and child ; it is not synonymous with puberty, with may be estab- lished at the age of fourteen or fifteen years, whilst the period of nubility is usually fixed at twenty or twenty-one. See Menstruation and ITS Disorders {Puberty). Nuchal.—Relating to the nucha or nape of the neck, e.g. nuchalgia, or pain in the back of the head and neck. Nuck, Canal of.—The peritoneum covering the round ligament of the uterus can sometimes be traced as a distinct pouch or diverticulum as far as the inguinal canal, and the cavity of this pouch has been called the canal of Nuck; its presence has an influence on the occurrence of inguinal hernia in the female. See Hernia {Oblique Inguinal Hernia depending upon Congenital Anomalies). Nuclear.—Relating to the nucleus. Nuclease.—A bacteriolytic enzyme hav- ing the power of digesting the nucleoproteids of bacteria. Nucleic Acid. See Gout (Urine in Gout); Physiology, Cell {Nucleus, Mitosis). Nuclein.—A conjugated protein which can be split up into a protein part and nucleic acid. The term nuclein is usually confined to the substances in which the amount of nucleic acid is large in proportion to the protein; the others, in which the protein is predominant, being termed nucleo-albumin. The formula of nuclein is CggH^gNpPgOog. See Gout {Urine in Gout); Temperature {Fever after Injection of Nuclein); Uric Acid {Formation and Excretion, Nucleins in Diet). NucleO-. — In compound words micleo- signifies relating to the nucleus or to nuclein. Nucleo-Albumin. See Nuclein. NuCleO-Histone. — A protein consist- ing of nuclein and histone, found in leucocytes, and regarded as the cause of the liquid state of the blood. See Enzymes {Fibroin Ferment), Physiology, Protoplasm {Histories). Nucleolus. — The refractile body seen within the nucleus of a cell. See Physiology, Cell {Nucleus, Sti-ucture). Nucleon.—Phospho-carnic acid or para- nucleon, the supposed source of muscle energy. Nucleoplasm.—The protoplasm of the nucleus, or chromatin. Nucleoproteids. See Physiology, Protoplasm (Conjugated Proteins). Nucleus. — The central part of a cell {see Physiology, Cell, Nucleus), also a mass of grey matter of the nervous system serving as the deep origin of a nerve or having a distinct function ; e.g. the nucleus of Deiters in the pons Varolii, the nucleus cuneatus of the medulla, the nucleus dentatus of the cerebellum, and the nucleus accessorius of the medulla. See Brain, Physiology of (Cerebellum and its Peduncles); Physiology, Neuro-muscular Mechanism {Me- dulla Oblongata). Nuel'S Space.—The space between the outer rods of Corti and the adjoining row of hair cells in the organ of Corti. Nuerine. See Intestines, Diseases op {Enteritis, Exciting Causes, Alkaloids from De- composition of Meat). Nuhn'S Gland.—A muciparous gland situated in the middle line near the tip of the tongue, and opening by several ducts on its lower surface; Blandin's gland. Nuisances.—Conditions which may be dangerous or injurious to the public health of a town or district, e.g. privies, cesspools, byres,NUISANCES 128 stables, manufactories or trades causing offensive smells or dangerous fumes, etc. Nullipa.ra..—A woman who has not borne a child. NuinbnesS. See Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology, Ancesthesia). Nummular.—Shaped like a coin, e.g. numymdar s2mtum. See Expectoration (Pul- monary Tuberculosis, Nummules). Nunn's Corpuscles.— Large, fatty cells found occasionally in ovarian cysts; Bennett's corpuscles. Nursery Hygriene. Nursery . . . . . . .128 Nurses 129 Bathing 129 Clothing 129 Fresh Air . . . . . .130 Sleep 130 Weighing-Charts . . . .131 Milk-Supply 131 Mouth and Teeth 132 Diets 132 See also Children, Development of ; Infant- Feeding ; Milk. Infants and young children are more sensi- tive to their surroundings than individuals of maturer years; they suffer more from exposure to cold and damp, bad air, and want of cleanli- ness ; they stand in need as much as their elders of the invigorating influence of sunshine and fresh air. Indeed warmth, fresh air, and sun- light are as necessary to the well-being of infants as suitable food ; while exposure to cold, neglect, dirt, and the foul air of dingy and crowded dwellings, are important factors in producing the high infant mortality in our large cities, as well as much sickness and ill- health. Our large cities, with their murky atmo- spheres, and cold, wet climate, are anything but ideal places for infants and children, and many of the weaker ones fail to thrive under the conditions of city or town life. There seems some reason to think that as far as town dwellers are concerned, the race is steadily degenerating, and imfortunately the tendency is more and more to depopulate the country and overcrowd the cities. A healthy infancy lays the foundation for healthy after-life. Healthy infancy can only be secured by rational feeding and careful hygiene. Nursery. — Much care should be bestowed in making the nursery bright and comfort- able, as the children of the household have necessarily to spend much of their time there, when it is impossible for them to be out- side in the open air. Let the nursery face south with as open a prospect as possible; rooms facing north and east are liable to be dull and cold, and in our British climate we want to catch the sunbeams for the greater part of the year. The window space should be ample, and the windows must be made to open widely so that the room may be flushed daily with volumes of fresh air. There should be an open fire-grate of sufficient size to heat the room efficiently, and this must be protected by a fire- guard three or four feet higli to prevent acci- dents. Draughts must be avoided by placing a screen or curtain reaching to the floor be- tween the door and the fireplace. In furnish- ing a nursery it is wise to remember that sooner or later there will likely enough be an outbreak of infectious disease among the inhabitants of the nursery, and its contents will have to be turned out and disinfected or destroyed. For this reason anything luxurious or expensive is out of place. Painted walls or washable wall- papers are convenient, as it is easy to wash down the walls with some disinfectant. The furniture, cushions, blinds, curtains will require to be boiled, or stoved, or destroyed. Picture frames catch the dust, and are not easily dis- infected, whereas cheap coloured pictures taken from the illustrated papers may be varnished, and taped round their edges, and fastened to the walls with tacks. These can be replaced when torn or dirty at a small cost. But after all a child prizes more a toy in its hands than a picture on the wall; toys are cheap, and should be burnt after a visitation of infectious disease. Cork linoleum makes a cleanly surface for the floor of the nursery, as many crumbs and much food debris are apt to fall from the nursery table. The night nursery should be carefully warmed and ventilated; it is altogether wrong for an infant to spend the day in a nursery heated to 60° or 70°, and the night in a temperature of 30°-40° F. If the nursery is well warmed the bedclothes need not be heavy, and there is no excuse for covering up the infant's face with the bedclothes as is so often done. A gas fire fitted to an efficient chimney flue, so that all the products of combustion may pass off, is a cleanly and economical form of fire. On no account use a gas fire or paraffin stove without a chimney flue, and see to it that there is no down draught. The cot should be of the type known as the hospital cot, with the sides letting down for convenience in placing in the infant. Enamelled iron or wood are the best materials ; brass cots look very well when new, but they soon tarnish and require much polishing up. Cradles which swing or rock are not necessary ; there is no reason in the world why an infant any more than an adult wants " rocking" to sleep—indeed, the movement is bad, and in some induces sickness. No curtains are necessary, as care should be taken not to place the cot in a draught. A horse-hair mattress should be129 NURSERY HYGIENE used ; this is usually covered with a stout piece of mackintosh waterproofing, and an old blanket doubled over this for the infant to lie on. The infant must on no account be allowed to share its mother's bed, as the risk of " overlying " or suffocation under the clothes is very consider- able. The mother and nurse must be warned not to cover the baby's face with the bedclothes, as they are apt to do in cold weather, as this foolish proceeding is responsible for much loss of infant life, not only among the poorer, but also among the well-to-do classes. There is reason to believe that many deaths of young infants certified as " convulsions " are in reality deaths from suffocation. Maintain a suitable temperature in the night nursery all through the night, and then there is no need for heavy bedclothes or for covering up the baby's face. In the case of immature or weakly infants a cot may be very readily provided by lining a suitable wicker-work basket with Gamgee tissue and absorbent cotton-wool for a mattress. The napkin can be made of a similar material, and the infant wrapped in cotton-wool instead of being dressed. One or more rubber hot- water bottles may be placed in the cot at a suitable distance from the infant. The nursery both day and night must be maintained at a higher temperature (about 70° F.) than is necessary for a vigorous infant. Nurses. — Serious attention has been paid during the last few years to educating and training nurses for infants and children, and raising their status more nearly to the level of those engaged in sick-nursing. A well-educated, refined, and capable nurse is simply invaluable; a vulgar, unreliable, or feckless and ignorant one may do untold mischief to the health and morals of infants and children. How much a good nurse can eff"ect by training in the nursery ! By carefully attending to the in- fant's wants she may save much wetting and soiling of napkins and clothes. She can get her baby off" to sleep when irritable and feverish when no one else can. She can save exhibitions of temper aud much unnecessary crying in the nursery. By attention to the feeding she may prevent not only minor ills but serious illness. Such a nurse is indeed a blessing, and deserves to be well paid and treated with every con- sideration in the household. Bathing.—Infants are usually bathed in the morning before being dressed, while older children are mostly bathed at night. The infant's morning bath is necessary on account of the fouling of the napkin during the night, and the consequent necessity of a thorough cleansing of the skin about the groin and buttocks. It is unnecessary to say that the wetting of the napkin during day or night should be avoided as much as possible by holding the infant out over the chamber vessel. The temperature of a baby's bath should be VOL. VII about blood-heat; the infant quickly loses heat when exposed to a temperature lower than its own tissues, and if placed in too cool a bath it quickly becomes blue and depressed. On the other hand, a bath of too high a temperature, or too long a stay in the water, soddens the skin and makes it tender. If the thermometer marks 100° F. when the bath is filled, the temperature of the water will be about right by the time the infant has been vmdressed and got ready. The nurse usually covers her lap with a mackintosh and blanket, then uses flannel and soap, especially about the buttocks and other folds of the skin, puts the infant in its bath for a minute or so to remove the soap, and then rapidly dries it with a soft towel. As the infant gets older it may be allowed to stay longer in its bath, as it can stand the water better. For older children a morning sponge all over with tepid or cold water is invigorating and healthful; delicate children should stand with their feet in warm water during the spong- ing process. They should be well rubbed down with a warm towel after the douche. Clothing.—-The most unsatisfactory article connected with an infant's wardrobe is the napkin, and the sooner the infant can be taught to do without it the better it will be for its health and comfort. It should be the aim of every good nurse to train the infant to do with- out a napkin as soon as possible. Whenever a napkin is wetted or soiled it should be at once removed, and the infant's buttocks cleansed with soap and water, carefully dried, and a clean warm napkin applied. Uncleanliness in this respect, and contact of wetted napkins with the skin for any length of time, is certain to produce fretting and irritation of the skin. Powders are imnecessary in healthy infants if the skin is well dried ; but if there is redness or excoriated skin, the afl^ected part after cleansing and drying may be dusted with starch and boric acid, or starch and zinc oxide. Whatever powder is used, it should be finely ground. Ointments are greasy, dirty, and often injurious. To smear an ointment over a half cleaned and still filthy "napkin area" is to invite disease. It requires a good and capable nurse to keep the buttocks of an infant in a healthy state when it is suffering from severe diarrhoea. Soiled napkins, especially if the infant is suff'ering from diarrhoea, ought never to be allowed to accumulate in the nursery or bathroom. The diarrhoea stools of an infant are frequently capable of conveying infection to others, and in consequence should be removed from the nursery, and if possible disinfected, by im- mediate boiling. The nurse's hands should be carefully washed. Where it is not possible to disinfect, by boiling at once, the soiled napkins should be well covered with carbolic powder and placed in a pan fitted with a lid. The pan should preferably be kept out of doors. A 9130 NURSERY HYGIENE •still better plan of disposing of soiled napkins is to burn them at once on removal; but if this is practised the napkin should consist of a triangular-shaped piece of soft Gamgee tissue, which can readily be made in the household ■or can be obtained ready made and stitched (knapkinettes). No napkin must be applied tightly. The binder is required to keep the ■dressing on the navel, and when the navel cord is separated it is no longer required. The broad flannel bandage which is usually applied round the abdomen of infants is of use as a protection from cold, but applied as it often is, it compresses the lower part of the chest, pre- venting or hindering the expansion of the lower lobes of the lungs. There can be no good, and much harm may be done in bandaging the infant up tightly. The abdomen varies in girth from time to time, according to the dis- tension of the intestines with gas, and an elastic open material is much better for a covering than an unyielding bandage. A Shetland wool ab- dominal belt fulfils every purpose, and cannot compress or overload the abdomen. With re- gard to the other articles of clothing, they should be warm and loose, being constructed for utility rather than show. The infant's " long clothes " should be placed in a museum as relics of antiquity: they are very inconvenient and useless. If the garments are made to reach three inches below the feet, they will be long enough for warmth and comfort. It is advis- able to have the clothes cut so that they all open in front or all open behind, not some in front and some behind ; this is done as being more convenient in dressing and undressing, there being no occasion to turn the infant first on its back and then on its face. Shetland woollen vests and overalls of the same material are useful to cover the legs and thigh and enclose the napkin. Knitted woollen socks should be worn, especially in winter. The shoes should be of soft material and of rational shape, so as not to compress the toes. When the child ■can run about sandals may be worn in the house, but they are hardly fit for our climate out of doors, except perhaps during a summer holiday at the seaside. By ten months or a year, if the infant has been properly trained, the napkin may be dispensed with during the daytime, as accidents will be rare, though it may be still required at night. When the napkin has been abolished a Shetland wool com- bination worn next to the skin is very suitable for wear. A knitted woollen cap of a Tam-o'- Shanter or buccaneer shape for winter, and a soft straw hat for summer, are much preferable for outdoor wear to most of the headgears made specially for infants. By the time the infant is beginning to crawl about and attempting to walk, the frock and inner garments are shortened so as not to im- pede locomotion. It is a great convenience at this time to be able to do away with the napkin, as it is always slipping and coming off. The legs and buttocks want protection, and woollen or flannel drawers should be provided ; but much trouble comes from wetting if the child has not been properly trained and tended, and much washing and shrinking of woollen garments is the result. Parents rarely take much trouble with regard to the make and shape of children's boots and shoes, and the ordinary boot salesman cares for nothing but smartness in his wares. It is possible, however, to have a good selection of rationally shaped boots and shoes for both boys and girls, which will not unduly raise the heel and compress the toes. Fresh Air.—No infant or child thrives if it is kept indoors in stuffy rooms for weeks and months together. This is certainly true of infants in hospitals as well as in private houses. If the weather is favourable, the newly-born infant, if strong and vigorous, may be taken out in its nurse's arms by the end of the first week. If the weather is cold it may be warmly dressed and taken for a walk in a warmed room with the windows thrown open, so as to accustom it to the fresh air. When a few weeks old it should go out daily in its carriage, and if the weather is cold a warm water-bottle should be provided. The child's carriage should have four wheels, be mounted on good springs, and arranged so that the infant's airing is taken lying down. Mail-carts are all very well for older children, but for infants under a year or eighteen months the sitting-up position is too trying, and they often want to sleep when in the open air. Sleep.—The newly-born infant usually sleeps most of the first few days of its life ; it is some time in shaking off the lethargy of prenatal life. This drowsiness is especially well marked after a prolonged labour and in infants who are born prematurely, and it is probably due to the effects of imperfectly aerated blood. All through infancy the healthy infant spends much of its time in sleep, and it is well for all con- cerned that it does so. It wakes up hungry and cries, its hunger is appeased by food, and it shortly drops off to sleep again ; usually the waking hours during the first few weeks of life do not amount to more than three or four. After the first month the infant is more alive to its surroundings, especially during the daytime, but it should sleep continuously from eleven at night, after being fed, till four or five the following morning and some sixteen or eighteen hours out of the twenty-four. At six months of age the healthy infant has gradually undergone a "mind awakening," and is no longer con- tent to sleep the livelong day when there is so much of movement and change going on around it; it requires, however, one or two naps during the day, and should sleep continuously throughHYGIENE 131 NURSERY the night after its last meal. All through early childhood a midday rest is a necessity for the muscles and nervous mechanism of the child's body. The dyspeptic infant is usually a bad sleeper, and often wears out the patience of its nurse and mother by its wakeful ways. In early rickets this is especially so; the infant sweats profusely, apparently suffers from pains and aches, and its nervous system is in an irritable condition. The healthy, phlegmatic, good- natured baby is a good sleeper, it is not easily aroused by noises, and gives little trouble to its nurse or parents. The excitable, neurotic infant, which is perhaps made worse by injudicious excitements allowed by its parents, is a bad sleeper: it will not go to sleep in the daytime, it wakes up with the slightest disturbance, at night it will perhaps lie awake for hours. When a tooth is being cut and the gums are sore and swollen, restless nights are common, as every mother knows by experience. Careful feeding, good training, and avoidance of excitement of all sorts and kinds, are the best prescriptions for wakeful babies. While bromides, chloral, phenacetin, etc., are useful and perhaps neces- sary, when given under medical direction, for some definite trouble, as tooth-cutting, they are baneful for habitual use, and in the hands of a reckless nurse are highly dangerous—the pitcher goes perhaps once too often to the fountain ! Weighing-Charts.—Every nursery should be provided with a weighing-machine, and the in- fant's weight may be conveniently recorded on a "weight-chart." Weighing-machines which necessitate slinging up the infant to a hook are inconvenient to use, on account of the struggles of the infant, and are dangerous in the hands of a careless nurse. A cradle fitted over a spring balance with a dial (Hawksley's), the pointer of which indicates 28 lbs. by 2 ounces, or the "Victoria combination scales," which weigh to 61 lbs. by half ounces, make excellent weighing- machines for the nursery. Weighing once a week is often enough during health ; care must be taken to weigh at the same time of day each week in order to get average results. An error is easily introduced if care is not taken to weigh exactly under the same conditions from week to week. Charts can be obtained (Hawksley's), resembling temperature charts, with spaces for the weights to be marked in each week, and there is a dotted line indicating the average weight. It is the weight rather than the age which must be the guide to the amount and strength of the food given to the infant; but account will also have to be taken of the age and as to whether the infant is abnormally fat {see " Children, Development and Clinical Examination of "). Milk-Supply.—The greatest care must be exercised in securing milk for the nursery which is of good quality and purity. It is astonishing how little trouble is often taken by the heads of a household to satisfy themselves in this matter. They accept without demur the fiction of a " special cow kept for infants " and the various statements of the dealer, backed up, as they usually are, by the pious opinion of the cook. The city dweller, unfortunately, has to take his milk on trust, and has no means of ascertaining if the milk comes from healthy cows free from tuberculosis or other disease ; that they are properly fed and cared for, and that the milk is not fouled in any way during the milking process or in transit. Most of the milk-supply of a city comes from a distance, as, for instance, some of Cheshire and Derbyshire milk goes to supply London. Whenever it is possible the distance for milk to travel should not be great, so that the morn- ing's milking may be delivered before breakfast of the same day, and the afternoon's milking in the evening for the night's consumption. It is best to have the milk-supply for the household put up at the dairy in clean sterilised quart or pint bottles with " lightning" stoppers, and in this way delivered at the house. This saves the risk of contamination by the dust of the street and by dirty vessels in the household. If the milk is dirty or coloured it is more readily de- tected when in a glass bottle than in an opaque vessel. The foddering of the cows is a matter of much importance when the milk is to be supplied to infants. The food of the cows should largely consist of dry fodder, such as hay, corn, meal, with a moderate proportion of fresh food, such as clover and grass in the summer and beets or mangels in the winter. An exclusive diet of green food does not produce the best milk for infants; the latter often suffer from dyspepsia when the cows are first turned out in the spring. Oilcake and turnips should only be used in small quantities, if at all, and refuse from breweries should be absolutely forbidden. The risks of the milk being contaminated are not ended when it leaves the dealer : the best of milks will go wrong if care is not taken in storing the milk in the household. Almost any vessel is thought good enough by the cook to receive the morning's or evening's milk. Beer jugs, pie dishes, pudding basins are pei-haps requisitioned for the purpose, while the vessels are kept in a hot kitchen or nursery or in the foul air of a cellar. Dust is allowed to settle in the milk, and with the dust come numerous micro-organ- isms. The milk, as was said above, should preferably be delivered in bottles, and the bottles should be stored in a cool place or in an ice-chest. It is a good plan directly the milk arrives in the household—especially during warm weather —to separate the infant's milk from the house- hold's, and at once Pasteurise or sterilise the former. This may be done in one of Hawksley's132 NURSERY HYGIENE sterilisers, or one of the " sentinel milk steril- isers," both of which are convenient for the purpose. The milk should be quickly cooled, and stored in a cool place {see "Infant-Feeding"). The simpler the feeding-bottle the better; perhaps the best of all are those sent out with Soxhlet's sterilising apparatus, or those of a similar make. These are round bottles which stand upright, have fairly wide mouths, and will stand scalding or boiling. A narrow- mouthed bottle with flat sides does not admit of being so readily cleaned with a ring brush as the above. Fancy bottles provided with ther- mometers should be avoided. The teats should be large enough to be turned inside out and cleaned with a tooth-brush. No tube bottle should be employed. After use the bottle should be well rinsed out, all flocculi or deposit removed with the cleaner, the bottle scalded— or, better, boiled—and placed on a rack, mouth downwards, to drain. The teat should be cleaned inside and out and set to drain. On no account permit the nurse to put the teat of a ready charged feeding-bottle into her mouth to taste the food and test its temperature. Mouth muL Teeth.—The careful nurse will daily examine the infant's mouth, and note the condition of the gums and mucous membrane of the tongue and cheeks. Any accumulation of food should be cleaned away with a brush wetted with weak Condy's fluid. Infants are very liable to aphthous, parasitic, and other forms of stomatitis, and the gums become sore during dentition and spongy in scurvy. The various forms of stomatitis are due to a lowered vitality of the mucous membrane and infection with the oidium albicans and various bacteria and cocci. There is no more certain way of introducing these organisms than by vising dirty teats to the feeding-bottles, or by allowing the infant to be constantly sucking a blind teat or " comfort." The " comfort" is continually dropping out of the infant's mouth; it falls on the floor of the nursery, in the dirt of the street, or the floor of a tramcar, and is promptly re- placed in the infant's mouth. It can hardly be a matter of surprise to find that the infant sooner or later suffers from stomatitis, and in the course of time tuberculous cervical glands. The teeth require constant supervision during infancy and childhood, but unfortunately, in spite of every care, bad teeth are common enough. The good nurse or mother will see that the infant's or child's teeth and gums are cleaned daily, and will note any soreness of the gums or incipient decay of the teeth. The cleansing process may be effected with a soft rag in the case of infants, and a soft tooth-brush for older children. An alkaline antiseptic solu- tion, as, for instance, soda and thymol, or a good tooth-powder may be used. (Precipitated chalk, 4 oz.; powdered curd soap, \ oz.; carbolic acid, 20 drops ; otto of roses, 5 drops. Pedley.) Not much can be done in the way of filling carious milk teeth, except perhaps the molars, and young children are not always very tractable when on a visit to the dental surgeon; but whenever caries is discovered in any of the permanent set no time should be lost in having them attended to. Diets (see "Infant-Feeding").—During the first year of life the infant's food consists en- tirely of fluids in the form of milk or milk food. After six or seven months of age it is usual to allow some starchy food to be mixed with the milk, as, for instance, thin barley gruel, oatmeal gruel, or rusks made into a gruel with hot water. The food must be thin enough to pass through the nipple of a feeding-bottle. Healthy infants do not require either malted food or peptonised food. The mistake that mothers are apt to make during the latter half of the first year is to give too much starchy food, making the food too thick and pasty. Children so fed are apt to be overfat and constipated, and suffer per- haps from flatulence. Another mistake which is perhaps as common is to give infants more undiluted milk than they can properly digest. They pass pale, curdy, and foul-smelling stools, and have distended and rounded abdomens. After the end of the first year the feeding- bottle is gradually dispensed with, the child drink- ing out of a cup or being fed with a spoon. This change often takes some time, as the child is clumsy at first in drinking, and splutters and chokes. The staple food during the second year is milk, from one or two pints being taken in the twenty-four hours. The diet is now more varied than during the first year; thin milk puddings, bread and milk, hominy or oatmeal porridge, eggs, broth, gravy, cooked vegetables, and cooked fruit being taken. Butcher's meat may be given in small quantities only. It should be underdone and finely shredded. The same mistake is frequently made at this time as during the first year, namely, giving too much thick starchy food. Thick oatmeal porridge is heavy, and not easy to digest, and so is bread and butter in large quantities. The same may be said as regards milk. More milk is often given than the child can digest, and decomposition of the proteids takes place in the bowels, and the stools are foul and unhealthy. Five meals a day are enough, the chief meals being breakfast and dinner, and on no account allow food of any sort or fruit or sweets between meals. Let the diet be varied; avoid a one-sided diet. After the child has entered its third year and has cut all its milk teeth a still more varied diet may be allowed. Bread and milk, oatmeal or hominy porridge followed by brown bread and "bacon drip," or occasionally an egg may be given. It is a mistake to make the second course too tempting, or the bread and milk will be left but half finished. Sweets in theHYGIENE 133 NURSERY shape of jam or marmalade had best be left till tea-time. Not much should be taken at eleven o'clock lunch : a biscuit, or a cup of milk is quite enough, and many children do best without. At dinner fresh fish, fowl, or flesh, with cooked vegetables, form the chief part of the meal; the potatoes should be mashed and sieved, and the green vegetables thoroughly cooked; soups and broth may be given for a change. The second course may consist of light puddings and cooked fruit. Rice, sago, tapioca, with stewed apples, pears, prunes, or jellies, are good. All forms of pastry, suet puddings, "trifle," or jam tarts, are bad. Raw fruits, as apples, pears, figs, bananas, should certainly not be given to children of weak digestion; orange and grape juice or pulp are much better. A plain tea is all that is re- quired ; eggs, fish, sardines, etc., are unnecessary and of doubtful utility at this meal. Bread and butter, jam, or marmalade, a sponge-cake, may be allowed, with milk and water to drink. Avoid rich cakes and jam puffs, tea-cakes or hot buttered toast. For supper, a cup of cocoa is light and nourishing. Great stress must be laid on accustoming children to eat slowly and masticate their food ; while taking care that their teeth are seen to, and their food, especially butcher's meat, is tender and cut up finely. It cannot be urged too strongly that eating between meals is physiologically wrong; the stomach requires rest, and is certain to get out of order if too continuously worked. Encourage tidy habits at meal times and simplicity of living, while providing a suitable - variety of foods. Encourage a child to clear up its plate and finish its milk, but do not force a child to take food against its will: a little starvation can do no possible harm. Nurse's Contracture. See Tetany {History). Nursing'. See Puerperium, Physiology; Lactation ; Milk ; Infant-Feeding ; etc. Nursing, Training for. See also MiDWiVES.—The occupation of nursing, that is, women fully equipped in the art of caring for the sick, ought now to be raised to the dignity of a profession, and those who have obtained the dis- tinction should, by some adequate process of re- gistration, be protected from those who have had an incomplete training. " The Royal Institution of Registered Nurses" is a step in the right direction, but is not sufficiently comprehensive. Before 1840 the only available assistance obtainable outside the members of the family circle in cases of illness was the untrained services of a respectable woman who had pro- bably no vocation and certainly no training. The pure " Gamp" type immortalised by Dickens is, fortunately, now almost a matter of history. The first attempt at training nurses was the establishment, in the middle of last century, of an Association of Nursing Sisters by Mrs. Fry, the celebrated Quakeress. The object was to obtain a body of respectable women with a few months' experience in an hospital, who would attend sick people in their homes. She hoped to secure for them fair remuneration for their work, and a small pension after thirty years' service. Miss Night- ingale's experiences in the Crimean War gave an impetus to the work by showing the need for nurses. Shortly after this a school of nursing was instituted at St. Thomas's Hospital, London. Most of the hospitals followed this example and started schools, with the object of training nurses and thus affording the public the benefit of their services either in private, district, or hospital work. At the present time so great has been the increase in nursing that almost everyone in a position to pay from 30s. to £>2 : 2s. weekly can be nursed by a woman claiming to be fully trained. However, on this point of training the greatest diversity of opinion prevails. For example, any woman can call herself a fully-trained midwife or monthly nurse who has had a brief course of three months' instruction in practical midwifery, and has received a diploma from the London Obstetrical Society. On the other hand, a woman who has had a three years' course of instruction in a general hospital, and thereby qualified as a fully-trained nurse, and has then devoted three or more months to obstetric work, and obtained a certificate, does not I'ank any higher than the one just referred to. This is surely anomalous. The same may be said of masseurs : certificates—so called—can be gained by anyone choosing to attend a very short course of lectures and pay a small fee. On the other hand, a certified Swedish masseuse is on a different footing ; she will only have acquired a certificate after three to four years' training. Thus there is as yet no recognised accepted general standard of attainment for certified nurses. Until nurses can be placed on a proper footing, however well trained, and however efficient they be, they can never obtain either the position or pay to which the best are entitled until the medical profession and public have the means of diff'erentiating between good and bad by some other means than pleasant or painful experience. Before describing the various methods of training that are open to women desirous of becoming nurses, it is well to make it clear that to be a really good nurse one needs the best training available as well as a natural dis- position for the profession. Training alone will not transform an impossible nature into that which is required for a good nurse. Training.—It is much to be desired that we in this country should adopt some such systemNURSING, TRAINING FOR 134 as that tried in America for some years past, which has been found to answer well. In 1889 a college of nursing was started in connection with one of their medical schools and hospital. In this training institution the probationer nurses receive no pay during the course. A thorough training is rightly regarded as ade- quate remuneration. A short outline of the course of instruction at one of the institutions which can rightly claim to be regarded as a properly equipped college of nursing, is here given:— The training school for nurses, Baltimore, is an integral part of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, and under the same government. The school buildings are within the hospital grounds, but separate from the hospital buildings. The Johns Hopkins Hospital affords exceptional advantages for the education of nurses. It is a general hospital containing 320 beds, and offering opportunities for a thorough and varied practical experience in medical, surgical, gynse- cological, and obstetrical wards. Instruction in the properties and preparation of foods, and in their application to the needs of the sick, is given in a model kitchen equipped for teaching purposes. Models and specimens, necessary for demonstration in various subjects, are obtained from the Johns Hopkins Medical School. Applicants wishing to obtain a course of instruction enclose a letter from a clergyman notifying to good moral character and qualifica- tions for undertaking professional work, and from a physician certifying to sound health and unimpaired faculties. No candidate will be considered who is not in good physical condition. Applicants must not be under twenty-three years, nor over thirty-five, and of at least average height and physique. A preliminary examination will be held to show that they have had a good general English education, and while this is indispensable, applicants are reminded that women of superior education and cultivation will be preferred, provided they meet the requirements in other particulars. The superintendent of nurses and principal of the training school decide on their fitness to work, and have the power to dismiss them at the end of term of probation or during its course if deemed advisable. Those who pass the examination and are proved satisfactory during the term of proba- tion, are accepted as pupil nurses, and sign an agreement to remain the three years of the course and obey the rules. Course of Instruction. — The course of in- struction covers a period of three years. The first six months of study and practical work is considered a probationary period, and failure to pass the examinations and tests at the end of this time is considered almost invari- ably a sufficient cause for the termination of the pupil's connection with the school. The arrangement of work and study as outlined below is in pursuance of a definite plan to provide the pupil, before she is brought into contact with her patients, with some fundamental knowledge upon which the art of nursing depends, and without which she is unable to benefit by the practical part of her work. The subjects are Household Economics. This means a careful study of food production, manu- facture, and cookery ; the cost of food materials, fuels, and cooking apparatus; the nutritive values of foods, their use in special forms of disease, and their special preparation for in- valids ; the serving of foods and the planning of hospital dietaries. Instruction is also given in the maintenance and administration of the household, including cost and care of furnish- ings ; supplies of lighting and heating ; and the plumbing, drainage, etc., of the home and institutional laundries. Short courses are given in Hygiene and Sanitation, Anatomy and Physiology. This occupies a period of about three months with six hours' instruction weekly. Materia Medica : this includes a general outline of the properties and uses of drugs. In addition to these classes, demonstrations are held weekly in which the pupil is taught the simpler practical part of nursing work, and becomes familiar with the various appliances and utensils used in nursing, the preparation of dressings, the care of instruments and materials. Those who pass the examinations at the end of this period and give satisfactory evidence of a general fitness of disposition and temperament for the work of nursing, are placed in the wards of the hospital for further work and study. After entering the wards the pupils spend not less than eight hours daily in practical work under the immediate supervision and direction of the head nurses and assistant-superinten- dents. They spend one to two hours daily on demonstrations and lectures. During the first and second years pupils receive instruction and practical work in the medical, surgical, and gynaecological wards, and also an insight in the nursing of infectious diseases and orthopedics. At the same time they have theoretical instruction in surgery and gynaecology, and lectures on infectious diseases, this course including instruction in contagion and immunity. Massage is also taught at this time, and a full practical demon- stration in this subject covers a period of two month.s. The senior year includes obstetrics, pediatrics, nervous diseases, including the care of the in- sane, diseases of the special senses. Special instruction is also given in connection with nursing in institutions, in district, and private nursino-. The care of invalids and convales-NURSING, TRAINING FOR 135 cents in connection with providing suitable occupation is also discussed. Pupils upon completing satisfactorily the full term of three years, and passing successfully the final examinations, will receive the diploma of the school. In this country I only know of two hospitals, the Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, and the London Hospital, Whitechapel, where an attempt has been made to institute a system of preliminary training and examination, and this experiment has been attended with the best possible results. The age regulation for commencing nursing in a general hospital being between twenty-three and twenty-five years of age, the interval of time beforehand can be profitably filled up by the candidate taking lectures on general nursing, elementary physiology and hygiene, and courses of practical cookery. These lectures are obtainable in domestic economy schools and classes throughout the country. With such previous knowledge a probationer nurse's power to profit by ward training is greatly increased. There is here appended a short account of the present regulations for admissions, etc., to general and other hospitals. As has been already indicated, this falls far short of the ideal. The General Hospitals, containing from 600 to 800 beds.—Probationers must be between twenty-five and thirty-five years of age, and after a month's trial can enter for two years' training and two years' service, either in the hospital or on the private nursing staff (some hospitals only require three years' training). Salary: first year, £12; second year, £20. Nurses receive from £24 to £27 a year. The whole or part of the indoor uniform is provided, and some hospitals give the outdoor uniform as well. There may or there may not be an entrance examination. An examination is held each year, and also at the completion of the course. All applications should be made in writing to the matron, and in most institutions a personal interview with the candidate is an invariable rule. Poor-Law Infirmaries. — The age limit is younger — twenty-one to thirty years. Pro- bationers have to put in first three months of trial. If appointed probationers they then en- gage to remain three years in the service of the infirmary, receiving lodging, washing, and uni- form. Nurses receive regular instruction from the medical officers and matron, and must pass certain examinations at the end of the third year, when they receive a certificate. Twelve hours are spent on duty daily, and the various times allowed off' duty are less than in a general hospital. In most of the infirmaries the nurses have a comfortable house, and either have separate bedrooms or cubicles. The salaries are: first year, £10; second year, £20; third year, £22. Children's Hospitals.—Probationers may com- mence their training at twenty-one years of age. A certificate is usually granted after two years. This certificate is of no value for a later appoint- ment in a general hospital. Infectious Hospitals.—KW. inquiries of those about London should be addressed to the Clerk, Metropolitan Asylums Board, Embankment, E.G., and in provincial parts applications to be made to tlie matron of the infectious fever hospitals. In fever hospitals, as a rule, the hours on duty are shorter than is usual in the general hospitals. District Nursing. — Almost all the county associations which endeavour to supply trained district nurses are now affiliated with the Queen's Jubilee Nursing Institute, and the nurses are known as Queen's Nurses. The objects of the general scheme are the training of nurses in the special practice of nursing the poor by visits at their own homes; the provision of a continuous supply of qualified superintendents and nurses to local associations in affiliation with the Institute ; the ensuring a high standard of district nursing throughout the kingdom by efficient inspection of the nurses' work. The following qualifications are necessary :— {a) Training in some general hospital or in- firmary for at least two years ; {b) approved training in district nursing for not less than six months, including monthly nursing; (c) nurses in country districts must in addition have at least three months' approved training in midwifery. During her training the nurse will receive £12 : 10s., with board, etc., and allowance for laundry. After training the nurse must agree to serve the Institute as a district nurse for two years wherever her services may be required by the Council. When a Queen's nurse the com- mencing salary is usually £30, with board, lodging, uniform, and an allowance for laundry. Applications for training should be made by letter to the Inspector, Queen Victoria's Jubilee Institute for Nurses, St. Katherine's, Regent's Park, N.W. They will then be put in com- munication with the superintendent of the head branches in London, Edinburgh, Dublin, or Cardiff-. In some rural districts where the associations are unable to afford a completely trained nurse to work in the homes of the poor, an endeavour has been made to meet the need by giving women in the villages an insight into nursing duties as will enable them to give assistance in ordinary cases of illness. This form of instruc- tion has been given to a large number of village nurses at the Plaistow District Nurses' Home, Essex, under the matronship of Miss Twining. The knowledge the nurses acquire during the six months, both as regards district work and136 NURSING, TRAINING FOR midwifery, is wonderful, as far as it goes; but no woman who has sufficient education to pass the preUminary examination in hospital should be content with anything less than a full train- ing qualifying them to take charge of any form of illness. Midivifery and Monthly Nursing.—The Lon- don Obstetrical Society gives a certificate on passing the examination provided the candidate has had three months' training in some recog- nised maternity institute. Licenses to mid- wives are granted by the Royal College of Physicians, Ireland, on the candidate having a certificate of six months' training in a recognised lying-in hospital, and being able to pass the ex- amination instituted by the Board. This train- ing is sufficient when taken after a three years' course of general nursing, but is inadequate for the majority of women who go in for this class of nursing without any previous training. The average age is between twenty-three and forty years, and the fee for midwifery training is about £26, while that for monthly nursing is generally smaller. The following is a list of training hospitals :— Queen Charlotte's Lying-in Hospital, Maryle- bone Road. General Lying-in Hospital, York Road, Lam- beth, S.E. Clapham School of Midwifery, Clapham Road, London, S.W. Maternity Charity, Howard's Road, Plaistow, Essex. Rotunda Lying-in Hospital, Dublin. Mental Nursing.—-In order to gain a certifi- cate the nurse must pass the examination held by the Medico - Psychological Association of Great Britain and Ireland. The regulations made by the Association for the training and certification of attendants and nurses for the in- sane are carried out under the supervision of an educational committee. Attendants must have trained for two years at an asylum recognised for the purpose by the Council of the Associa- tion before they can enter for the examination. The system of training must include systematic lectures and demonstrations by the medical staff. A register is kept of all persons who receive the certificate, whose names may be erased and the certificate forfeited in case of misconduct. These regulations came into force after October 31, 1900. Nuta.tion.—A movement of oscillation or (literally) of nodding such as may take place in labour when the upper end of the sacrum moves backward and the lower end forward, or vice versd. Nutmeg^. — The dried seed of Myristica fragrans is used in medicine, and is known as nutmeg; it has an aromatic taste and odour. and it contains a volatile oil {Oleum Myristicae. of the B.P.) and a fixed concrete oil (consisting of the oleate, butyrate, and myristate of glyceryl or myristin). The volatile oil is composed of a hydrocarbon (myristicene, CjgHjg), of myristicol (CjqH^i,0), and of cymene (Cj^Hj^). The dose of the oil is ^ to 3 m., and from it is prepared the Spiritus MyristiccB, whose dose is 5 to 20 m. Nutmeg is contained in several other prepara- tions such as Pulvis Cretce Aromaticus, Spiritus AmmonicB Aromaticus, and Mistura Ferri Com- posita; and it has the pharmacological actions of a volatile oil. See also Pharmacology (Volatile Oils). Nutmegs Liver. See Liver, Diseases OP {Chronic Venous Congestion, Nutmeg Liver, or Cardiac Liver). Nutrient Enemata. See Enemata {Nutrient). i^utrition. See Diet; Food; Infant- Feeding ; Invalid - Feeding ; Milk ; Physi- ology, Food and Digestion ; etc. NutrOSe.—A proprietary preparation of casein, neutral casein sodium; caseinogen ren- dered soluble by being combined with sodium. See Diet {Milk and its Products). Nuts.—As a food, nuts are rich in fat and cellulose and diflScult of digestion, but as they are poor in carbohydrates they may be used in diabetes. See Diabetes Mellitus {Treatment, Diet); Diet {Fruits, Nuts); Physiology, Food and Digestion ( Vegetable Food-Stuffs, Nuts). NUX Vomica. See also Strychnina ; Toxicology {Alkaloids).—Nux vomica consists of the dried seeds of an East Indian plant, the Strychnos nux vomica, of the Natural Order of the Loganiacese. Both this seed and the allied St. Ignatius bean contain strychnine, the latter in larger amount. The seeds show a central scar on one surface, and are covered with satin- like hairs ; they have a very bitter taste. They contain several alkaloids : strychnine {q.v.) and brucine {q.v.), united with igasuric acid, and loganin (a glucoside). The dose is 1 to 4 grains. There are three official preparations: the Ex- tractum Nucis Vomicae Liquidum (dose, 1 to 3m.); the Fxtractum Nucis Vomicm (dose, \ to 1 grain); and the Tinctura Nucis Vomicce (dose, 5 to 15 m.). Nux vomica is used as a stomachic, a bitter tonic, and, on account of its action in increasing peristalsis, as a purgative ; it is also a cardiac stimulant. In cases of pregnancy, in which previous confinements were complicated by post-partum hcemorrhage, nux vomica may be given for some weeks before the expected date of delivery to prevent the occurrence of the haemorrhage. Nyctalopia. — Night - blindness. See Hemeralopia ; Choroid, Diseases of {CongenitalNYCTALOPIA 137 Affections, Albinism); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnormalities of Iris) ; Retina and Optic Nerve (Retinitis Pigmentosa); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Disappeai-ance of Melanin, Albinism). Nyctanthes.—The seeds and flowers of the nyctanthes arbor tristis or mourner tree are used in India as a cardiac tonic, the root in asthma and phthisis, and the leaves in rheuma- tism and fevers. NyctiplanctUS.—A sleep-walker (Gr. vvi, night, 7rA.avKTos, wandering). Nyctobadia or Nyctobatia.— Sleep-walking ; somnambulism ; noctambulation (q.v.). Nyctophobia.—A morbid dread of the night. Nyctophonia. — Loss of voice during the day. See Hysteria. NyctOtheruS Faba.—A ciliated in fusorian found in the human intestine. See Parasites (Protozoa, Infusoria). Nylander's Test.—A test for glucose in diabetes, etc., in which 1 cc. of Nylander's solution (made by dissolving 4 grammes of sodium potassium tartrate or Rochelle salt in 100 cc. of a 10 per cent caustic soda solution, and adding 2 grammes of subnitrate of bismuth) is added to 10 cc. of urine and boiled; a black deposit indicates the pi-esence of glucose. Nymphse.—The two folds of delicate mucous-membrane-like skin lying one on each side of the anterior part of the entrance to the vagina, within the labia majora; the labia minora. See Generation, Female Organs of {External Generative Organs). Nymphectomy.—Removal of one or both nymphfe. Nymphomania.—A form of insanity in women characterised by excessive venereal desire. See Climacteric Insanity (Clinical Forms); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Insane Impulsiveness). Nymphophobia. —Sexual fear. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Insane Im- pulsiveness). Nystagfmus.—A congenital or acquired anomaly in which there is involuntary oscilla- tion of the eyeballs, usually in the transverse ■direction. See Amblyopia (Congenital Am- blyopia, Complications); Brain, Tumours of (Diagnosis); Brain, Inflammations (Acute En- cephalitis, Clinical Features); Brain, Cerebel- lum, Affections of (Tumours, Symptomatology); Choroid, Diseases of (Congenital Affections, Albinism); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Ophthal- mia Neonatorum, Sequelce) ; Head - Shaking (Clinical Featu7-es); Meningitis, Tuberculous (Symptoms); Mental Deficiency (Diagnosis); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis (Symp- tovis. Sensory); Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Nystagmus); Pharynx, Examination of (Neuroses of Motion, Nystagmus-like Move- ments) ; Syringomyelia (Symptoms, Bulbar). Nysten'S Law.—The order in which the muscles are affected in rigor mortis— mviscles of mastication, of face, of neck, of trunk, of arms, and of legs. O.—In prescribing (q.v.), 0 is the abbrevia- tion used for a pint (Lat. octarius); it is also, in chemistry, the symbol for oxygen. Oakum.—The loose fibre obtained from the picking of old rope; it has been used as a dressing for wounds and as a pad to absorb offensive discharges ; marine lint. Oaths. See Medicine, Forensic (Pro- cedure). Oatmeal.—Meal made from oats, used as porridge as a food and also for making poultices. Grinding is the usual means of preparing oat- meal, but when rolling (with the application of heat) is used instead the product is called rolled oats. Bread cannot be made from oats for they contain no glutin. See Physi- ology, Food and Digestion (Vegetable Food- Stuffs, Cereals). Oban. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts (Scotland). Obdormition.—The state of a part of the body commonly called "sleeping" or " asleep " ; it is a form of numbness due usually to pressure upon the nerve. O'Beirne's Sphincter.—The circular bundle of muscular fibres in the wall of the rectum just below the point whei'e it becomes continuous with the colon. O'Beirne's Tube. — A flexible tube, long enough to pass up into the rectum for the giving of injections. Obelion.—The term obelion (Gr. o^eXo's, a spit or point) has been given to a point on the sagittal suture between the two parietal fora- mina (through which the veins of Santorini pass), where the suture becomes simple (instead of being serrated); it is about four-fifths of the length of the suture from the front, and it is here that its closure usually begins. Obermeier's Spirillum. — The specific cause of relapsing or famine fever, dis- covered in 1868 by Obermeier.OBERMEYER'S TEST 138 Obermeyer's Test.— A test for the presence of indican in the urine, depending on the formation of indigo blue. See Pigments OF THE Body {Indigo Pigments, Indoxyl Sul- phuric Acid). Obermiiller's Test.— A colour test for cholesterine, depending on the action of propionic acid, recommended by Kuno Ober- muller (1892). Obesity. Introduction . . . . . .138 Etiology . . . . . . 138 Varieties— Plethoric 139 Aruemic ...... 139 Pathological Relations . . . 140 Treatment . . . . . .140 Adiposis Dolorosa . . . .143 See also Adiposis' Dolorosa ; Dercum's Dis- ease ; Diabetes Mbllitus {Predisposing and Exciting Causes); Glycosuria {Alimentary Variety); Hydropathy {Uses, Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Lipomatosis ; Menstruation AND ITS Disorders {Amenorrhoea, Causes); Preg- nancy, Diagnosis {Differential); Typhoid Fever (Sequelce). Obesity (from ob, on account of, and probably esiim, from edo, to eat) is a term applied to an excessive production of fat or adipose matter which is found deposited especially in the sub- cutaneous, intermuscular, and subserous con- nective tissue, the greatest deposits being found in the nates, thighs, back of the neck, the ab- dominal walls, the omentum and mesentery. Etiology.—-The vdtimate fact upon which obesity depends is that more fat-forming sub- stances are taken into the body as food than can be physiologically utilised in the functions of the organism, and the excess is deposited as adipose tissue in the body. Speaking generally, the obese person is a person who consumes more food, or more food of a certain kind, than he can use. But there are many predisposing causes of obesity, and the whole question of etiology cannot be dis- posed of by the above simple statement. Among the predisposing causes of obesity heredity takes an important place. Oertel states that 50 per cent of the patients who come under observation for obesity have an hereditary tendency thereto. In these hereditary cases the manifestations of the tendency to excessive deposition of fat is often seen in early life—more commonly in female than in male children. Sometimes it aftects all, and sometimes only a certain number of the children of the predisposed family. Some- times this tendency does not appear till a more advanced age. In this connection Weinberger has reported the case of a boy five years of age weighing over 13 stones, and Kisch a girl of six weighing nearly 8 stones, and we have ourselves seen a boy of eleven years of age weighing over 15 stones. An important practical consideration with reference to these hereditary cases is that they are much less favourable subjects for therapeutic treatment than are cases of acquired corpulency. Amelioration under treatment in such patients, is usually of only temporary duration. Age.—With respect to the influence of age in causing obesity, it has been observed that ad- vanced middle-age is the period when excessive development of fat is apt to set in. We are leaving out of consideration those normal de- velopments of adipose tissue which occur in infancy and at the period of puberty in the female sex. At these times the fat is observed to be uniformly distributed over the body, giving a general and agreeable aspect of plump- ness, but in middle life this excess of fat tends especially to accumulate in the abdominal walls, the omentum, mesentery, pericardium, medias- tinum, etc. One reason why this tendency should appear especially at or about middle age is doubtless because the physiological need of food naturally diminishes with advancing years and a less active life, and the capacity for utilising it diminishes also. Notwithstauding this there ia no diminution in the amount of food taken. At this age the capacity for muscular exertion is lessened, and there exists no longer either the same disposition or the same ability to engage in those active physical exercises which in earlier years dispose of much of the surplus food-supply. Sex.—It is easy to understand the increased incidence of obesity in the female sex. In the first place, there is naturally and normally in women a more extensive and abundant develop- ment of adipose tissue than in men. Then their more sedentary and less active habits and their more luxurious modes of life favour the develop- ment of obesity. It has also been suggested that their blood is poorer in hssmoglobin, and therefore less able to oxidise the fat-forming- substances in their food. There is a marked relation between the de- velopment of fat and the functional activity of the sexual organs. Impotence or castration in the male is often attended by a rapid increase of fat formation. Castrated animals are known to fatten readily. After the cessation of menstruation in women a tendency to obesity often sets in, and the same has been observed to occur with young widows who have not remarried. An increase of adipose tissue has also been observed in women who have become sterile from uterine or ovarian disease. Monks and nuns often offer notable specimens of obesity. Temperament.—Persons of the so-called phleg- matic temperament, indolent, good-natured, easy-139 OBESITY going, as opposed to the sanguine, energetic, active, and quick-tempered, and the nervous, fretful, and worrying disposition, are predisposed to the accumulation of fat. Race and Climate.—It has been observed that obesity is more frequent among Orientals, the inhabitants of southern Europe, Dutchmen, Hottentots, etc. This may be to a certain extent accounted for by peculiar food habits and customs. Some Oriental women purposely consume a great excess of fat-forming food to increase their obesity, which is regarded by them as a great personal attraction. It has also been pointed out that the hot sun of southern climates restricts the physiological con- sumption of fat in the production of heat, and this leads to a considerable deposition of fat in the body, while "the moist and warm air of the lowlands and wide plains is more favourable to corpulence than the cooler air of the highlands, which requires the combustion of more fat for the production of heat, and furthermore, owing to the formation of the ground, there is the necessity for greater muscular activity in climb- ing " (Oertel). If the preceding may be regarded as the chief predisposing causes of obesity, the efficient exciting causes are the food habits and general mode of life of the individual. If the regular intake of food exceeds the nutritive requirements of the individual an accumulation in the body of fat will follow, and this will be the more pronounced if the excess of food taken consists of such substances as are readily transformed into fat in the organisms, or which serve to economise the consumption of fat within the body. The carbohydrates and the fatty foods— though the latter in a less degree than the former—are especially prone to favour fat deposition, but it is also certain that albuminous foods are also capable of being converted into fat within the animal body under certain conditions. Ebstein's statement that fat in the food does not give rise to fat formation has been hotly contested, and Oertel remarks with regard to this view: "It is one directly opposed to all physiological investigations. It has arisen only from a misunderstanding of one of Voit's state- ments, whose interpretation in Ebstein's sense has been particularly cautioned against by Voit himself, for which reason it may be passed over as unscientific." Such substances as fat, starchy substances, sugars, cakes, confectionery, and the like, when taken freely tend inordinately to the production and accumulation of fat. Excessive beer-drink- ing has the same effect, and in a somewhat lesser degree all alcoholic drinks, for they not only tend to promote fatty degeneration, but they also, by being burned up in the body, save an equivalent amount of albumin and fat, and so favour the deposition of fat in the body, just as carbohydrates and fats do. Even the excessive consumption of water favours fat formation. This is a fact recognised by all trainers ! When in addition to excess of food we encounter also habits of indolence—an avoidance of physical exercise and an over-indulgence in sleep—we have present additional potent factors leading to the excessive accumulation of fat in the body. All these act through a diminution of the normal oxidation processes within the organisms. Two forms of obesity are generally recognised : (a) the plethoric form, and {b) the ancemic form. (a) The characters of the plethoric form are too common and too obvious to need detailed description. In the early stage the muscles are large and fully developed, the blood is rich in albumin and htemoglobin, the bearing and attitude are erect and confident, the pulse is full and strong. Later on, with physical signs of cardiac hypertrophy, the pulse becomes weaker and less frequent, the respiration is hurried on any exertion, and muscular exercise is associated with effort and fatigue. To this stage succeed other morbid conditions to which we shall immediately recur. (h) The anaimic form is less common. It is most frequently observed in women, young delicate girls with pale faces and much adipose tissue. In them the catamenia are usually scanty, irregular, and often painful. Or they may be older women who have had repeated haemorrhages or endured prolonged lactation, and been fed with unsuitable food. Oi* it may develop in men, especially during convalescence from acute disease, and who, perhaps, have been given large quantities of fat-forming food beyond their capacity of utilisa- tion. In all these cases the excessive accumula- tion of fat depends on the poorness of the blood in hsemoglobin, and the deficiency of oxidation processes dependent thereon. In such persons the temperature is subnormal, the pulse is small and feeble, the heart's action weak, the muscles poorly developed, flabby, and inactive, the surface of the body pale and bloodless. The general energy and mental power of such persons are low, they tire quickly, quickly be- come breathless, suffer from palpitation, and sleep much. Such patients do not often eat or drink to excess, but they are often addicted to faulty food habits, partaking freely of pastry and sweets, and avoiding animal food. Their appetites are usually poor because the digestion is feeble and slow, owing to the hydrsemic blood which flows to the digestive organs, and hence it is that in this form of obesity the deposition of fat is never so great as in the plethoric form. The quality of the fat, too, does not seem to be the same as in persons who have become plethoric by the ingestion ofOBESITY 140 enormous quantities of albuminous food, fat, and carbohydrates. While the subcutaneous cellular tissue in the latter is firm and granular, elastic, and hard to touch, in anaemia it appears flaccid, soft, loose, and is readily pinched into folds " (Oertel). The 'pathological relations of obesity are many and complex. Some are directly due to the pressure and interference with normal nutrition of the fatty deposits amongst the muscular fasciculi of the heart and other muscles. Serious loss of power in the cardiac muscle is thus induced. Some are doubtless due to the same faulty habits of life as have led to the obesity. Obese persons are well known to bear acute disease and surgical operations badly, their power of resistance to depressing influences is diminished, and for this reason, as well as on account of their proneness to such diathetic diseases as gout and diabetes, they are generally regarded as unfavourable lives for assurance, and assurance companies invariably charge an augmented premium in cases of excessive obesity. When the obese become the subjects of the acute infective fevers they are apt to assume an adynamic form. The cardiac feebleness in- creases rapidly with the fever, and there is danger of sudden fatal collapse. Again, owing to the amount of subcutaneous fat, the heat formed in the anterior of the body is with difficulty dissi- pated, and the risk of fatal hyperpyrexia thereby increased, while such patients bear antipyretic drugs badly. Convalescence from acute disease is slow and not unattended with danger. The tendency to cardiac feebleness and de- generation brings with it serious tendencies to pulmonary congestion, emphysema, and bronchial catarrh; nocturnal attacks of cardiac asthma are frequent, and degenerative changes in the coronary arteries are attended with a proneness to attacks of angina pectoris. The general arter^io-sclerosis so commonly found associated with certain forms of obesity, and not infrequently accompanied with renal changes of a gouty character, brings in its train the risk of cerebral apoplexy. An enlarged liver, in part from fatty deposits and in part from passive hyperaemia due to cardiac debility, is a common accompaniment of excessive obesity. Glycosuria, together with symptoms of gout, are frequently observed, and the obese are notoriously prone to calculous deposits in the kidneys and gall-bladder. This list by no means exhausts the catalogue of morbid changes to which the obese are prone. Treatment.—Pi-ophylaxis.—It may be desir- able, in dealing with the children who inherit a predisposition to the plethoric form of obesity, to attempt to counteract this tendency by a careful regulation of the diet, excluding from it, so far as practicable, all fat-forming sub- stances. It would be well for such an infant to have a wet-nurse who is known to have no such inherited predisposition, or if suckled by the mother, to see that the mother's diet is freed from all excess of fat-producing food, and especially from beer. The same observations will, of course, apply to the nurse. If the infant is hand-fed, then sterilised milk should be used to the exclusion of all other kinds of food. If after the period of infancy there is still a marked tendency to the over-production of fat, we should diminish as much as possible the carbohydrates, and butter and foods prepared with fat. We should attend also to the child's general health by inculcating habits of healthy exercise in the open air. Encourage the practice of gymnastics, carefully adapted to the age and strength of the child, and apply whatever other tonic measures may seem expedient to promote a vigorous and healthy action of the organs of circulation. During the period of growth and develop- ment we must watch the nutrition, and we must be especially careful not to reduce the amount of albumin in the body by too great a reduction of fatty substances in the diet, lest by so doing we should retard or diminish muscular develop- ment. Gymnastic exercises may be encouraged if they are carried out with judgment and moderation. In the anmmic form be on the lookout for signs of ansemia in infants, and give suitable preparations of iron (such as the compound syrup of hypophosphites), and establish a dietary having for its object the regulating of fat and albumin formation. Later on gymnastic exercise may be recom- mended, carefully adapted to the muscular development and capacities of the child. In scrofulous cases the saline and chalybeate mineral baths may be useful, or cold ablutions and frictions with sea-water once or twice a day, so as to stimulate powerfully the circulation and increase the power of resistance of the surface to external injurious influences. Dietetic Treatment.—In applying a dietetic method of treatment to cases of obesity each individual case should be made the subject of close study and analysis. In the first place, the patient's weight should be accurately noted. A physical examination of the patient should be made, especially with the object of ascertain- ing the condition of the heart and arteries, the condition of the lungs and liver, and that of the kidneys by the examination of the urine. We should ascertain whether we liave to do with a case of the hereditary or acquired type. An accurate account should be obtained as to food habits, the amount of exercise and sleep taken, and the nature and amount of daily work. The previous history may reveal evidences of gout and glycosuria. It is desirable also to141 OBESITY ascertain the average daily output of urea, as any deficiency in this respect in relation to the food taken would counter-indicate a highly nitrogenous dietary. If, as the result of our examination, we find we have to do with a vigorous person whose organs are sound, we may apply a much more rigid dietary than to one whose health has broken down, and whose organs are more or less diseased. If we have to do with a case of the plethoric form we shall have to reduce the quantity of food taken daily. As there is scarcely any form of food from which fat cannot be formed, a reduction in the total quantity is of the first importance. The quantity of food absohitely necessary to maintain the nutrition of the body varies greatly in diff'erent individuals, and depends chiefly on body weight, age, and activity. It has been calculated that a healthy adult requires daily from 100 to 130 grammes of proteids, 450 to 550 grammes of carbohydrates, and 40 to 80 grammes of fat; to these must be added 30 grammes of salts and 2800 grammes of water. These figures may be much reduced if the patient is kept at rest in bed, at any rate for a short period. We recently had to keep a stout, active patient suffering from chronic gastric ulcer on a limited milk diet while resting in bed for some time. For the first week he only had 36 oz. of milk daily—3 oz. every two hours; he was perfectly satisfied and comfortable, and did not wish for more. A little more food (an egg or its equivalent) was then added. At the end of a fortnight he had lost nearly two stone in weight, and at the end of three weeks he was able to take a fair amount of exercise, feel- ing lighter and stronger than he had done for some time. With a careful diet—limited, but sufficient—this loss of weight has been main- tained. Absolute rest in bed is, however, need- ful whenever a very restricted diet of this kind is applied. But we see no reason why this very restricted diet should not be more fre- quently applied to the reduction of body weight in suitable cases, and when the cordial co-opera- tion of the patient can be relied upon. Prof. Debove, last year, presented to the Academic de medecine of Paris a man fifty-five years of age, who weighed on admission to hospital 234 lbs., and after a year's treatment weighed only 180 lbs., the remedy employed being a very severely restricted milk diet. There was some hereditary predisposition to the malady. He had been growing fat since the age of twenty-five. He was of sedentary habits and given to alcoholic indulgence. He suffered also from gravel and gout, and had become impotent. In considering the means available for re- ducing his obesity, Debove discarded prepara- tions of the thyroid gland, the protracted use of which he considered dangerous, and the beneficial results only temporary. Active exer- cise could not be prescribed, as the man could not leave his bed. He chose, therefore, the only method he thought practicable, viz., by giving the patient an insufficient amount of nourishment to oblige him to consume his own fat. He was put on an exclusive milk diet, the quantity of milk being severely limited. Dur- ing the first month he had two quarts of milk a day, during the second month one and a half quarts, and during the third month one quart only. He lost 27 lbs. the first two months, and 4 lbs. the third month. During the four follow- ing months the patient took less than a quart of milk a day, and his weight finally fell to 180 lbs. He was at the time of the report in perfect health. This is a remarkable and most instructive instance of the small amount of food upon which existence can be maintained and excess of weight thereby reduced without injury to health, provided the patient be kept at rest in bed. Weir-Mitchell has also warmly advocated a restricted milk diet for the reduction of obesity. It will be found, in examining the various dietetic methods that have been advocated for the treatment of obesity, that they all aim at reducing the average quantity of food taken. The carbohydrates are especially attacked in all, and they are largely reduced. There would seem to be a far greater tendency to excess in this class of food than in the other classes. This is probably due, in some measure, to the great convenience and cheapness of such food as, e.f/., bread and butter, biscuit, sweet cakes, etc.; such foods are always at hand, they re- quire no preparation, and they are agreeable to the palate. In some of these methods an excess of pro- teids is prescribed; this excess has been con- sidered to favour the reduction of obesity by promoting the oxidation and combustion of the excess of deposited fat. In nearly all these methods a strict limitation of the amount of liquid taken is insisted on, and one of the earliest systematic methods advocated for the cure of obesity was to pre- scribe as dry a diet as possible. By prohibiting all drink during meals no doubt the desire to take a large quantity of food is diminished. The work of mastication is made slower, and masti- cation and insalivation must be more complete or there would be difficulty in deglutition. In the case of large eaters with vigorous digestion, this method of eating dry is no doubt an efficacious one, but in certain other cases a full supply of water is needed, and especially in gouty cases, to promote complete digestion and to favour the elimination of waste products.OBESITY 142 The two principal objects aimed at in all these methods are, first, to cause the obese person to consume the excess of fat deposited in his body by restricting the food-supply, or by augmenting its combustion by increased physical exercise or other means ; and, second, to establish a dietary which shall prevent its re-accumulation. We may take Oertel's method as a typical one, and one which has been very generally adopted. He claims for his system that it not only provides for the removal of fat, but also prevents its re-accumulation ; that it also main- tains the amount of albumin, and restores tone to the organs of circulation. He distinguishes two degrees of obesity : one, the slighter form, in which the organs of circulation are unaffected and vigorous bodily exercise is possible; and another, the graver form, in which the muscle of the heart is invaded and weakened, and other functional derangements connected therewith are developed. He adopts Voit's statement that the human body decreases in fat if the daily food consists of the three great groups of foods in the following proportions:— Proteids about 4^ oz., fats 1| oz., and carbo- hydrates about 5^ oz. Oertel, therefore, allows 0^ to 6 oz. of proteids, 1 to 1^ oz. of fat, and 2^ to 3^ oz. of carbohydrates. With this diet regular exercise is combined, as muscular exertion is attended with a considerable reduc- tion of fat, and the relative excess of proteids in this method leads to the displacement of the fat accumulated in the substance of the muscles and to a new formation of muscular tissue in its place. At the same time, this diet protects the nitrogenous tissues from waste. In the graver cases, where the accumulations of fat about the heart have led to great embar- rassment of that organ, and to consequent visceral congestion and even dropsy, the fats and carbohydrates are still further reduced, and the amount of fluid consumed is severely re- stricted, and the fluids of the body are further reduced by vapour and other baths. In this dietary the proteids may consist of roast or boiled beef, veal, mutton, game, and eggs. Green vegetables, such as cabbage and spinach, may be taken; fat in very limited amount; bread, 4 to 6 oz. per diem. The fluids taken daily must be limited to rather less than 6 oz. of coffee, tea and milk morning and evening, and about 12 oz. of wine with from 8 to 16 oz. of water. Beer is, of course, forbidden. This method may be put into actual practice in the following manner:— Morning.—One cup of coffee or tea with a little milk — altogether about 6 oz. Bread about 3 oz. Noon. — 3 to 4 oz. of soup, 7 to 8 oz. of roast or boiled beef, veal, game, or not too fat poultry. Salad or a light vegetable. 1 oz. of bread or farinaceous pudding—never more than 3 oz. 3 to 6 oz. of fruit (fresh preferred) for dessert. It is advisable at this meal to avoid taking fluids, but in hot weather, or in the absence of fruit, 6 to 8 oz. of light wine may be taken. Afternoon. — The same amount of tea or coffee as in the morning, with about 6 oz. of water; an ounce of bread as an exceptional indulgence. Evening.—One or two soft-boiled eggs, 1 oz. of bread, and perhaps a small slice of cheese. Salad and fruit, 6 to 8 oz. of wine, with 4 or 5 oz. of water. In Schweinger's modification of this method there is an entire suppression of beverages at meals. Whatever fluid is drunk must be taken an hour or two after food. Von Noorden's method, more recently pub- lished, differs from the preceding in giving small meals at frequent intervals, e.g. :— 8 a.m.—Cold lean meat, 3 oz.j bread, 1 oz.; a cup of tea or coffee with a spoonful of milk, no sugar. 10 A.M.—An egg. Noon.—A cup of strong soup without fat. 1 P.M.—A small plate of clear soup (Julienne) ; lean meat or fish, 5 oz.; potatoes, 3^ oz. ; green vegetables ; fresh fruit, 3^ oz. 3 P.M.—A cup of black coffee. 4 P.M.—Fresh fruit, 7 oz. 6 P.M.—A glass of skimmed milk. 8 P.M.—Cold lean meat, 4^ oz., with pickles; Graham bread, 1 oz. ; two or three spoonfuls of fruit cooked without sugar. Some of those who affect to be specialists in the treatment of obesity have been in the habit of applying some modification of the so-called Salisbury cure, the essential idea of which is to limit the food and drink to the lean of meat, preferably beef, and an abundance of hot water. The late Dr. Towers Smith was a strong advocate of this method, and he has stated that his custom was to give 3 lbs. of rump steak and 1 lb. of cod-fish, together with 6^ pints of hot water, as the daily diet for the first fortnight; for the next three weeks 4 pints of hot water with other kinds of lean meat and fish are allowed, as well as a little green vegetable and unsweetened rusks. For the following months the hot water is reduced to about a pint a day and some crusts of stale bread, captain's biscuits, grilled meat, or poultry or game of any kind, and hock and claret with seltzer water are allowed. Five grains of bicarbonate of potash are also prescribed night and morning. No doubt some striking results in the reduc- tion of fat have been observed to follow this method, which may be accounted for by the supposition that the patient supplies the neces- sary fat and carbohydrates (absent in his diet) from his own store—that he consumes his own fat.143 OBESITY Thyroid extract and thyrocol, which professes to be the active principle of the thyroid gland, have been put forward as most efficient agents in removing superfluous fat. Opinion is much divided on this matter. Some experienced observers think them dan- gerous ; others think them valuable in carefully selected cases. Others have found them useless, and think they should be reserved for such cases as do not yield to dietetic treatment, and that then they should be given with great caution because of personal idiosyncrasies. Their effects seem to be only temporary. It is certain that they cannot safely be substituted for dietetic treatment, nor should they be used as a concession to patients who resent a too strict control of their habits. Toxic effects re- sulting from this treatment are reported in the Brit. Med. Journ., May 25, 1901, p. 1315. Treatment by mineral waters at such spas as Carlsbad, Marienbad, Kissingen, Brides-les-Bains, Tarasp, and certain others, is popular, and we think it a good way of beginning dietetic treatment in the plethoric, but it is only of temporary value unless supplemented and re- inforced by regular treatment, by diet, and exercise afterwards. Obesity is essentially a dietetic disease, and it is only by dietetic measures that it can be cured. What these measures should be must depend on the application of general physiological prin- ciples to the special circumstances of individual cases. Adiposis Dolorosa.—In 1892 Dr. Dercum pre- sented to the New York Neurological Association the histories and photographs of three cases of an affection which he proposed to term adiposis dolorosa, a disease which he considered had not been previously recognised. He has subse- quently described this affection in the Reference Handhooh of the Medical Sciences (Supplement). A case has also been reported in the Brit. Med. Journ., by Dr. Hale White (December 2, 1899). The cases of this disease therein referred to differ entirely from ordinary cases of lipomatosis, and present nervous symptoms which are re- garded as possessing a special significance. One of the distinguishing characters of these cases is that the swollen and fatty infiltrated tissue makes its appearance in a very singular manner. The soft nodules are at first deposited in one spot, or sometimes in corresponding spots in both arms or in both legs. For a time this deposit is limited to the original areas, but later on it appears elsewhere and may spread ex- tensively. Some regions may, however, remain permanently free from invasion. In one case the deposit appeared first in both upper arms, then on the back, then on the inner aspect of the right knee, then (some months later) on the corresponding aspect of the left knee, and still later on in various other situations. But the legs below the knees remained per- manently free, and the thighs and buttocks were but little affected. In another case the swelling began on the inner aspect of both knees, and gradually spread unequally over the thighs and buttocks; later on it involved the left arm, then the sides and back, and finally the entire trunk. In a third case the masses, which were distinct and separate, appeared first on the back of the neck, and at different periods spread to other parts. In this case the face, fore-arms, legs, thighs, and buttocks remained free from deposit. Another peculiarity in these cases is that the swellings are accompanied at some time or other with paiTis or other nervous symptoms. " Pains, shooting, burning, or stabbing in character, were present in all these cases at various times in their histories." Tenderness over the nerve trunks has been observed during the early or developmental period. Other nervous symptoms noted were diminished cutaneous sensibility and patches of anjesthesia, excessive debility, absence or diminution of perspiration, and headache. Other symptoms observed were haemorrhages, gastric, nasal, or uterine, and in one case well-marked purpura. Microscopic examinations of fragments of the swollen tissue removed by the Duchenne trocar showed fat cells and connective tissue in varying proportions—the latter appearing " decidedly embryonal in type." A most important fact was that in two cases on post-mortem examination the thyroid was found indurated and much infiltrated by cal- careous depqsit. Dr. Dercum points out that the thyroid should be studied in every case of obesity that reaches the post-mortem table. He concludes that these cases cannot be regarded as cases of simple obesity, nor are they cases of myxoedema—of the latter they lack the peculiar physiognomy, the spade-like hands, the infiltrated skin, the peculiar slowing of speech, etc. He thinks they are cases of "connective tissue dystrophy, a fatty metamorphosis of various stages of com- pleteness, occurring in separate regions, or, at least, unevenly distributed and associated with symptoms suggestive of an irregular and fugitive irritation of the nerve trunks, possibly a neuritis." It remains for future research to determine to what the neuritis is due—whether it is the cause of the fatty metamorphosis or only a concomi- tant, and whether the thyroid gland does not pAay some mysterious part in its causation. Obex.—The semilunar lamina (Lat. obex, a bolt or bar) which forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle of the brain in its lowest part; it overhangs the opening of the central canal, stretching across between the two clavse at the calamus scriptorius. ObfuSCation.—Mental dulness or con- fusion, or physical clouding, e.g. of the cornea.144 OBJECTIVE Objective. — A term generally used in medicine as opposed to subjective ; thus the signs of a disease recognised by the physician are called objective, while the symptoms felt and described by the patient himself are subjective. It is also the name given to the lens of a micro- scope nearest to the object which is being ex- amined {see Microscope, Objectives). Oblig'a.te.—That which is of necessity what it is; thus an obligate anaerobic microbe is one that can only live as an anaerobe, and an obligate parasite is an organism to which a parasitic life is indispensable if it is to attain to full development. Literally, the term means " bound " (Lat. obligare, to bind). ObliC|Ue.—Slanting or sloping, or diver- ging from a straight line or from the vertical or the horizontal, e.g. the obliquely contracted pelvis {see Labour, Prolonged, Rarer Pelvic Deformities). Obliquity.—The state or quality of being oblique. The foetal head as it lies at the brim of the maternal pelvis is described as having certain obliquities: since its occipito-frontal diameter corresponds with one of the two oblique diameters of the brim, the head is said to have Solayres's obliquity; since it has its posterior or occipital end lower than its anterior or sincipital, it is said to have Roederer's obliquity; and since it may have one side (that next the maternal symphysis pubis) lower than the other, it is described as having Naegele's obliquity or a lateral or biparietal obliquity. ObliquUS.—In anatomy this term is applied to certain structures, especially muscles, which have a direction parallel neither to the long axis of the body or a limb nor to its trans- verse section, e.g. the obliquus externus ab- dominis and the obliquus superior of the neck. Obliteration.—Closure of the lumen of a duct or vessel, e.g. of the bile ducts or of the ductus arteriosus (at birth). See Liver, Dis- eases of {Obstructive Biliary Cirj^hosis); New- born Infant {Icterus Neonatorum, Symptomatic). Obliterative Arteritis. >See Ar- teries, Diseases of {Obliterative Endarteritis). Obnubilation.—The state of mental obscuration (Lat. obnubilare, to cover with clouds) which immediately precedes syncope or death; an overclouding. Obsession.—The action upon the mind of any fixed or imperative idea or notion; if continued, an oVjsession may result in impulse; originally, obsession meant a besetting of any- one by an evil spirit or the devil (Lat. obsidere, to besiege). See Hypnotism {Uses); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhi- bition, Impulse and Obsession). Obstetrics.—The subdivision of medical study and practice which deals with pregnancy, labour, and the puerperium in their physio- logical and pathological developments; mid- wifery. See Ablactation ; Abortion ; Acci- dental HEMORRHAGE ; AcCOUCHEMENT FORCE ; Accoucheur ; Acrania ; Afterbirth ; After- Pains ; Agalactia ; Agnathy ; Ambulant ; Amnion ; Amputations, Intra-uterine ; Anes- thesia {Ether in Obstetrics); Anencephalus ; Anideus ; Antenatal Pathology ; Aprosopus ; Asphyxia {New-born Children); Assimilation- Pelvis ; Axis-Traction ; Bag ; Ballottement ; Bandl's Ring; Basilysis; Basiotribe; Binder; Bipolar Version ; Birth ; Blastula ; Bossi's Dilator; Brachial Plexus {Obstetrical Para- lysis) ; Breech ; Broad Ligament ; Brow Cases ; Buist's Method ; Cesarean Section ; Calliper - Compasses ; Canalisation ; Caput Succedaneum ; Cebocephalus ; Cephalhema- toma ; Cephalotomy ; Cephalotripsy ; Cervix Uteri ; Childbed ; Chorion ; Cleidotomy ; Coffin-Birth ; Colostrum ; Concealment of Birth ; Conjugate ; Convulsions ; Cord ; Cor- PORE Conduplicato ; Crede Method ; Cross- Birth ; Crotchet ; Curettage ; Cyclopia ; Cyllosomus ; Decapitation ; Decidua ; De- collator ; Delivery ; Denman's Spontaneous Evolution ; Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neona- torum ; Detachment of Placenta ; Diceph- alus ; DiPROsopus; Dry Labour ; Dystocia ; EcBOLics; Eclampsia ; Ectopic Gestation ; Edocephalus ; Embryo ; Embryology ; Embry- ULCiA; Epignathus ; Episiorrhaphy ; Episi- OTOMY; Ergot ; Eugenics ; Eutocia ; Exbn- cephalus ; ExoMPHALOs; Fallopian Tubes ; Flat Pelvis ; Fcetus and Ovum ; Fontanelles ; Forceps ; Funis ; Galactagogue ; Gastro - scHisis; Gemelli Coaliti ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Germinal Pathology ; Gesta- tion ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Hemato- metra ; " Harlequin Fcetus "; Head-Locking ; Hebotomy ; Hemicephaly ; Hemipagus ; Her- maphroditism ; Heteropagus ; Hook ; Hy- datid Mole ; Hydrocephalus ; Hydrorrhcea ; Hyperemesis ; Hypognathus ; Hysterectomy ; Hysterotomy ; Induction of Labour ; Infant Feeding; Iniencephaly ; Inversion ; Involu- tion ; Ischiopagus; Jacquemier's Test; Jani- CEPS; Justo-major and Justo-minor Pelvis ; Labia ; Labour, Physiology ; Labour, Patho- logy ; Labour, Operations ; Lactation ; Lahs' Theory ; Laparotomy ; Lecanopagus; Lie ; Lingering Labour ; Liquor Amnii ; Lochia ; " Longings "; Lying-in ; Lysol ; Maieutics ; Malacosteon; Malposition; Mammary Gland; Management ; Mania, Puerperal ; Maternal Impressions ; Maternity ; Mechanism ; Me- conium ; Medicine, Forensic {Pregnancy, etc.); Meningocele ; Menopause ; Menstruation ; Mermaid Fcetus ; Metacyesis ; Midwives ; Milk ; Molar Pregnancy ; New-born Infant, Diseases; Nubility; Obliquity; Osteomalacia;145 OBSTETRICS Ovaries ; Paralysis (Infantile Spastic); Paro- varium; Parturition; Passages; "Passenger"; Pelvis ; Perineum ; Phenomena ; Phlegmasia ; Pica ; Placenta ; Plural Pregnancy ; Porro's Operation Position ; Post- Maturity ; Post- partum Haemorrhage ; " Powers "; *' Prague Grasp "; Precipitate Labour ; Pregnancy, Physiology ; Pregnancy, Pathology ; Preg- nancy, Intra-uterine Diseases of the F(etus ; Prematurity ; Presentations ; Preternatural ; Prolapsus Funis ; Pseudocyesis ; Puberty ; PuBioTOMY; Puerperium, Physiology ; Puer- PERiuM, Pathology ; Quickening ; " Restitu- tion "; Retention ; Rigidity ; Robert Pelvis ; RoEDBRER; Satchel, Obstetric ; Sclerema Neonatorum ; Sepsis ; Smellie Grasp ; Spina Bifida ; Spondylotomy ; Still-Birth ; Sub- involution ; Superfcetation ; Symphysiotomy ; Synclitism ; Syncytium ; Teratology ; Third Stage Hemorrhage ; Tractor ; Transverse Presentations ; Triplets ; Twins ; Umbilical Cord ; Uterus ; Vagina ; Vectis ; Version ; Vertex Presentations ; Vulva ; Walcher's Position ; Wet-Nursing ; " White Leg." ObStipa.tion.—Constipation of a severe or persistent type. Obstruent.—Obstructing or closing up the ducts or openings of the body; e.g. certain medicines which are supposed to do this, as opposed to deobstruent drugs which open up the same. Obstruction. See Intestines, Surgical Affections of [Intestinal Obstruction). Obturator.—That which closes or shuts up an opening or which is associated with the closing structure (Lat. obturai-e, to stop up), e.g. the obturator membrane of the thyroid foramen. See Hernia {Special, Obt%irator); Hip-Joint, Injuries {Dislocations, Obturator). Occipit£ll.—Relating to the occiput or hind part of the head, e.g. the occipital bone, the occipital lobe of the cerebrum, and the occipital protuberance. See Brain, Physiology of {Anatomy); Headache {Locality, Occipital) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Occipital Glands); Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Cerebrum). OcCipitO-.—In compound words occipito- means relating to the occiput, and is used, for instance, in naming the positions of the foetal head in labour, e.g. left occipito-anterior or right occipito-posterior position {see Labour, Diagnosis AND Mechanism, Vertex Positions), and in such terms as occipito-atloid (relating to the occiput and the atlas vertebra), occipito-bregmatic (re- lating to the occiput and the bregma or anterior fontanelle), occipito-frontal (relating to the oc- ciput and the frontal bone or area), occipito- VOL. VII mastoid, and occipito-mental (relating to the occiput and the chin). Occiput.—The back part of the head, as opposed to the forepart or sinciput (Lat. ob, against, caput, head). Occlusion•—The closing of an opening, e.g. of an artery ; imperforation. Occupation. See Neuroses, Occupa- tion ; Lunacy (Occupation); Lung, Tubercu- losis OF {Predisposing Factm^s, Occupation); Nails, Affections of {Injuries, Occupation); Tetany {Occuimtion-Spasm); Trades, Danger- ous ; Vital Statistics {Occupation and Mor- tality). OchiopilObia,.—A morbid fear of crowds (Gr. 6)(Xo<;, a crowd, (^0(^0%, fearing). OclironosiS.—A morbid condition de- scribed by Virchow as a peculiar black coloration of all the cartilages and ligaments of the joints of the body (Gr. wxP^i yellow ochre, vocro?, disease). Octa.n.—Returning every eighth day ; a term applied to a special form of intermittent fever. See Malaria. OctariuS. — A pint (abbreviation, 0), which is the eighth part of a gallon. Oct i para.—A woman who has given birth eight times. Ocular.—Relating to the eye. See Eye and cross-references. See also Brain, Tumours OF {Symptoms, Vertigo, Ocular); Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Ocular Ancesthesia); Ocular Muscles. Ocular Muscles, Affections of. Abnormal Position . . .146 Nystagmus . . . . . .147 Paralysis . . . . . .149 Symptomatology— Squint . . . .150 Double Vision . . .150 Faulty Projection . . .153 Diagnosis in— Etiology . . . .153 Prognosis . . .156 Treatment . . . .156 See also Strabismus ; Vertigo {Ocular). In connection with pathological conditions of the external muscular apparatus of the eye there are three chief possibilities, viz., an ab- normal position or development of one or more of the muscles, involuntary action of the muscles (nystagmus), and partial or complete paralysis of one or more of the individual muscles. 10146 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 1. Abnormal Position or Development of ONE or more of the Exterior Ocular Muscles It is a state of matters not so very infrequent that the two eyes, apart from the condition properly termed squint, are not precisely directed when completely at rest to the same point in space : that the two visual axes are not parallel, but are falsely directed in reference to one another. This condition to which we refer at present differs from true squint in the first instance in two important particulars, viz., that it is congenital, and that it has no relation to the refractive condition of the eyes. There are three possibilities: that one eye may look higher than the other, a condition expressed by the term right or left hyperphoria; that one eye may tend to deviate inwards or outwards from its neighbour, called esophoria and exo- phoria respectively (right or left); and that whether alone or in conjunction with one of the other conditions, the vertical axis of one cornea may be rotated towards the other either above or below. It must be manifest that, given fairly equal vision in the two eyes, and the desire for binocular vision, it is quite possible that the constant effort required to neutralise the incon- veniences of the faulty position may give rise to grave discomfort. Thus, if when the eyes are quite at rest their visual axes tend to cross, the patient, unless he incessantly keeps one or both of his external recti actively innervated, will be apt to have double vision. This con- stant struggle will be bad enough in the case of the external or internal recti, but these are comparatively powerful muscles; it is when height differences are present that the chief trouble exists. If in order to keep the images of one object upon the two macute at once the patient requires constantly to pull down one cornea, he will very soon experience much fatigue. This is easily proved by experiment, for while one can read for some time without much inconvenience from wearing a 3° prism with its apex either in or outwards, he cannot endure for any length of time a prism even of 2° apex upwards. Such faults of position as we are now speaking of arise from congenital imper- fection or malposition of certain of the muscles. One may readily suppose that if the superior rectus muscle of the right eye is inserted a little too far forwards or too nearly above the vertical meridian of the cornea, or if one of the "upward movers " of the left eye be imperfectly developed, a condition of right hyperphoria must exist; and here one must point out an error into which it is easy enough to fall. It is not to be sup- posed that because on inspection a patient's right eye stands at a manifestly higher or lower level than his left he therefore has hyperphoria. That is incorrect reasoning ; for if his visual axes be but parallel, he might have his two eyes one above the other instead of side by side without having hyperphoria. We must not judge by the mere position of the cornea, but by the direction of the line of vision, a totally different thing. For the discovery of those forms of mal- position of the eyes one requires certain tests, which are more refined than those which are sufficient for the display of diplopia produced by actual paralysis of a muscle. To describe even a proportion of the instruments devised for this purpose, the majority of which are em- ployed by no one save the inventor, would occupy many pages; but, fortunately, it is not necessary to do so, for the very simple test devised by Maddox is more reliable than any of the more complicated apparatus. The point is this, that the desire for fusion, for binocular vision, tends to mask and to prevent the double vision which is constantly threatening, and, as one might say, attempting to occur. If it were not so the patient would suffer no incon- venience; it is just this effort to fuse against difficulties which causes all the trouble. Dr. Maddox's plan is to render the image which falls upon one eye so unlike that which falls upon the other that the patient will not realise that they are the two images of one object, and so will not attempt to fuse them ; we shall thus find out, by their relation to one another, what is the position of the two eyes relatively to one another. He accomplishes this by the simple expedient of causing the patient to look at a spot of light (a gas jet turned low will do nicely), while before one eye is held a glass rod or bundle of rods. The eye before which the rod is held sees the light in the form of a streak running perpendicularly to the axis of the glass rod, and according as we hold the rod the patient can readily tell whether the line of light is to right or to left, above or below the gas jet, through which of course it oiight to pass. The degree of error is easily read off on a scale on the wall, in the centre of which the gas or candle is burning. Another simple and useful plan of discovering latent convergence or divergence is to cause the patient to look steadily at a dot, through which passes a fine line drawn vertically on a sheet of paper. The two images are separated by placing before one eye a prism with its apex upwards or downwards, when, should no diver- gence or abnormal convergence be present, the line will be merely lengthened, and show two dots, but if either of these conditions exist the two images will be laterally as well as vertically separated. As regards the actual harm done by such minute abnormalities and their frequency there are great differences of opinion : many surgeons, especially in America, holding that they are (juite a frequent cause of the most widespread and varying bodily symptoms, such as epilepsy.147 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF chorea, and insanity, while others consider their influence in such matters to have been greatly exaggerated. Two points especially call for remark, namely, that it is quite certain that many persons have errors of this nature which never give them the smallest uneasiness, and that occasionally one meets with a case in which such an error really does cause headache or similar discomfort. The general opinion on this side of the Atlantic is not in favour of so frequent interference with minimal degrees of error by tenotomy, whether " graduated" or not, as appears to be considered good prac- tice in America. Be the reason what it may, we do not meet with cases which on account of bodily ailment call for interference by operation, with anything approaching the frequency which seems to rule in the United States, at least if one may judge from the writings of certain authors. The various abnormalities which may in this way occur are spoken of as hyperphoria when one visual axis makes an angle in the vertical sense with the other, as exophoria when there is divergence, and as esophoria when there is convergence of the axes. These may in any case be combined, and indeed when present vei-y often are combined into hyperesophoria or hyperexophoria. The treatment of such con- ditions may be either palliative or more radical; the former consisting in the adaptation of prismatic lenses (combined, if necessary, with convex or concave spherical and cylindrical lenses), so placed and of such power that they shall negative the influence of the incorrect position of the eyes. Thus in a case of hyper- phoria it may be necessary to cause the patient to wear a prismatic glass with its apex upwards before the off"ending eye. All prismatic glasses must of necessity be heavy, for which and for other reasons it is desirable to spread the efl'ect over the two eyes. Thus a patient with right hyperphoria, to correct which he would require to wear a prism of 4° apex up before the right eye, can attain the same result by wearing before each eye a prism of 2°, the apex up in the case of the right, downwards in the case of the left eye. The case becomes more complicated when one has to do with a combined inward-and-upward or outward-and-upward de- fect, but it is worked out on the same lines. One has simply to discover first the amount of vertical deviation, and correct that by a prism ; then similarly with the lateral deviation and the strengtli of prism required for that; then to combine these two prisms, one with its apex upwards, the other with its apex outwards or inwards, as the case may be, into one simple prism whose apex is in a direction intermediate between those. In a few cases it is good practice to correct the vertical defect by a prism in the vertical sense before one eye, and the lateral defect by a prism in the horizontal sense before the other. It should also be borne in mind that a patient will very readily, in most cases, overcome by muscular action a small lateral defect, provided the vertical error is artificially corrected for him by a prism. In any case in which the refractive error is large and the position error small, one may attain one's end without prisms by means of decentration of the convex or concave lens which the patient requires {see Maddox). This palliative method is applicable only in those cases of malposition of the eye, congenital or acquired, in which there is dis- tinct desire on the part of the patient for binocular fixation, and we shall have occasion to revert to the subject when speaking of the treatment of paralytic strabismus; it is not applicable except when the amount of error is slight. The radical methods of treatment consist in operation upon the muscles, either in the direc- tion of diminishing the power of the muscle which is relatively too strong (tenotomy), or of increasing the power of a direct or indirect antagonist (advancement). To this matter we shall revert when speaking of paralytic strabis- mus. (»S'ee a^so " Strabismus, Concomitant.") Nystagmus In Nystagmus we have to deal with a peculiar condition of the ocular muscles in which there is involuntary movement of the eyes. This movement practically always (though there are rare exceptions) aff"ects both eyes, though not invariably to the same degree, and, according to circumstances, may be in (1) a vertical, (2) a horizontal, (3) a rotatory, or (4) a mixed sense. An important feature of nystagmus, and one which has an important bearing upon its etiology, is that, with a possible exception to be mentioned presently, the movement of the two eyes is invariably conjugate, that is, that both eyes move upwards or downwards, or to the right side, or to the left side, or are rotated like the hands of a watch, or in the contrary direction to the hands of a watch, at the same moment. The way in which this very important fact may be most simply stated, and the manner of stating the fact which most clearly shows this point in the etiology, is to say that the move- ments take place as they do in the normal eye; they occur as voluntary movements do, being due to outflow of nerve impulses from the centres, and are in this sense only muscular manifestations of nervous excitations. Thus when rotation of the upper half of one eye to the left occurs, the upper part of the other cornea is also turned to the left; while had this been due to a truly muscular lesion, then the muscles of the left eye which one would have expected to act along with the superior oblique and the superior rectus (producing rotation to the left) of the patient's right eye are clearly 7iot the inferior rectus and inferiorOCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 148 oblique (producing rotation to the left) ; yet this is actually what does occur. Except, per- haps, in the case of miner's nystagmus, we are quite ignorant what factors they are which decide the question in which precise direction nystagmus shall occur, whether vertical, rota- tory, or what not. In the case of miner's nystagmus, however, the symptom is no doubt due to persistent fatigue of certain definite muscles or of their nerve centres, and the normal action of these muscles gives us the key to the nystagmus. Suppose, for example, that in the course of his work the miner has to lie much upon his left side and look up (to his right), lateral nystagmus will be the result. The exception which I have noticed to the otherwise constant rule that nystagmus is con- jugate is in the case of the curious disease known as head-nodding in children, in which class of patients I have certainly seen the movements to be those of convergence and divergence, and of double contraction of superior recti followed by relaxation. Probably the cause of this curious symptom in a little Isnown disease may be a condition of irritation of the nuclei on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The rapidity of movements in nystagmus varies within very wide limits, as also does the extent of the excursion. Thus in one case one may have to do with a vibration so minute as to be hardly visible, except in the ophthalmo- scopic picture, and as rapid as sixty or one hundred, or even many more times per minute, while in another case the excursions may be large, extending from one canthus to the other, and only so frequent as ten in the minute. It may be laid down as a rule that vertical, and I think rotatory, nystagmus is always rapid, while lateral nystagmus may or may not be slow. It may also be said in general terms, though the rule must not be supposed to hold good for all cases, that nystagmus arising in childhood, and where vision is good or fairly good, tends to show great rapidity of movement, while nystagmus acquired in adult life, and where vision is nil, tends to be slow. The causes of nystagmus are twofold, since they are originally dependent either upon a visual or a motor anomaly. In regard to the visual causes we find considerable divergence, but we have either a cause operating very early in life, perhaps even in utero, and producing a defect of vision which may be severe, or may be or become quite slight, or (2) a cause operating later in life and associated with very grave defect or total loss of sight. Thus, under this heading, nystagmus may occur either because the patient has never had proper vision, or because he has had it and lost it. For its production in infancy, it is necessary that there has been some influence at work which has pre- vented the formation upon either macula of images which are more clear or more capable of accurate appreciation than those formed on other portions of the fundus. It would lead us too far from our present subject to discuss at how early a period an infant learns to direct the macula upon a bright object, but it is certainly a matter of not many weeks. The bearing of this point is that it is at an extremely early period that macular vision becomes superior to more peripheral vision, and if nystagmus is to be set up, the cause must be at work before this brief period has passed. No doubt, by that time the macula even is but poorly developed, and its superiority to the rest of the fundus but slight, yet the mere fact of fixation means that already the macula is not merely potentially, but actually, the most acutely perceptive point of the retina, and already the centres have been educated so to direct the globes that images may fall upon these two spots. If, therefore, a damaging, but not completely destroying lesion is to produce nystagmus, it must not merely be bilateral, but very early also. Such a lesion may take various forms; it may be a damage to the optic nerve, showing itself in later life as an atrophy, and probably being at the moment of the nature of a retrobulbar inflammation, or a choroido-retinitis leading to disturbance or destruction of the pigment layers at the centre ; or a rather high degree of congenital cataract; or an ophthalmia neonatorum, with ulceration of the cornea and consequent formation of opacities. There may be, in fact, a lesion which prevents either the formation or the appreciation of superior macular images, but whatever it be, the lesion must be early and bilateral; a uni- lateral lesion is not sufficient, it may cause squint, but will not give rise to nystagmus. It is probably to this class that the nystagmus of albinism belongs. From the visual side it requires a much more serious lesion to produce nystagmus in the adult than is sufficient in the child, and we see it best marked in such cases as the very bad varieties of retrobulbar neuritis and in atrophy. We never see nystagmus produced in adult life, for example, by even ripe cataract, nor by even fairly severe destructive ulceration of the cornea, unless vision is practically entirely lost. In this variety of nystagmus it is that one sees the best examples of the slow, "searching" nystag- mus, which sometimes takes a peculiar form. In this the lateral movement in one direction is saltatory, the eyes passing from near the one canthus to near the other in a series of jerks, and return in one long sweeping movement. The writer's impression is that the jerking movement is apt to be from left to right, while the sweeping movement is more usually from right to left; this fact, he is of opinion, may be related to the habit of movement acquired in reading. From the muscular point of view we have three principal varieties to deal with: miner'sOCULAR MUSCLES nystagmus, paretic muscle nystagmus, and that connected with spinal and cerebellar lesions. In regard to the first of these, we have combined the three evil influences of general bodily fatigue, local fatigue, and insufficient illumina- tion. The rapidity of movement is usually great in miner's nystagmus, and it may only be elicited by causing the patient to assume his particular trade-position or to look upwards. Convergence to a near object is vastly more difficult when the object is above the level of the eyes, as it often may be in colliery work, in which case it may be oveiiooked in the course of an examination not sufficiently minute. In the nystagmus of paretic muscle we see the follow- ing condition sometimes:—A muscle has been paralysed, but is perhaps recovering; but on getting the patient to look steadily to an object, so held as to necessitate the weak muscle being kept actively innervated, presently the eye will begin to make slight oscillatory movements, which are apt to become more marked than at first. It is exactly analogous to the tremulous- ness of one's hand after carrying a weight, and is not of any great importance clinically. The lesion of the cord most frequently connected with nystagmus is disseminated sclerosis, though it occurs with others also. This, it must be carefully noted, has no connection with any visual lesion ; there may be troublesome nystag- mus while yet the vision is as good as ever it was. In the muscular nystagmus the patient is apt to suffer from an annoyance from which he is free in the case of either infantile or other " visual" forms, namely, the apparent move- ment of the object looked at as the image falls upon different nerve terminations with the unstable condition of the eyes ; this is apt to give rise to much annoyance to the patient. The treatment of nystagmus resolves itself into the treatment of the original cause of the instability rather than of the condition itself. Sometimes this is simple enough. Thus, in congenital cataract, should nystagmus be de- veloping, operation should at once be performed so as to allow of the macular placing of images. If this can be accomplished so that the patient can learn to fix even one macula upon the object looked at, the development of nystagmus may be checked. Similarly, in cases of ophthalmia neonatorum we are sometimes obliged to perform an optical iridectomy in a very young patient, in order, in this way, to prevent the permanent establishment of instability of the eyes. In the case then of infantile nystagmus, should the cause of the defective sight be amenable to treatment, to attack it is to attack the nystag- mus. In the case of miner's nystagmus, and those of this class, the patient must at once, and for good, relinquish the work which is producing the muscle-fatigue from which this results. The first essential is to have the patient to work in daylight, and out of the ABTECTIONS OF 149 necessarily constrained attitudes essential in coal-getting. Beyond this, and attention to sobriety and the general health, nothing is required. The prognosis is good provided health be sound, the case is caught early, and the objectionable work given up. Sometimes the patient comes to one while yet nystagmus arises in certain positions ow^y, and when that is the case the prospect of improvement and cure is manifestly much brighter than when nystagmus has come to exist in any and every attitude. No direct treatment is called for in the cases of spinal and cerebellar nystagmus, nor in those of the slow nystagmus from blindness. In many children with " causeless" nystagmus from infancy, that is, nystagmus with no visible change in the fundus or media, there is a distinct tendency to self-cure, and as years pass on, the constancy, rapidity, and excursion of the nystagmus all diminish, even to vanishing point. As regards prognosis and treatment in the nystagmus associated with head-nodding in children, see article on that subject. Paralysis of Ocular Muscles Paralysis of one or more of the ocular muscles is very far from being an uncommon condition, and it is one which from several points of view demands careful attention; for one reason, the double vision to which it may give rise is not infrequently one of the very earliest symptoms which force a patient in the earlier stages of serious and, it may be, acute intracranial or spinal disease to seek s^killed advice ; for another, the inconvenience and discomfort to which it gives rise, and the deformity caused, are matters of grave importancce to a patient. The im- mediate cause of our being consulted by a patient whose muscular apparatus is thus thrown out of gear is in the vast majority of instances the occurrence of double vision. Now, in order to answer the question which meets us at the outset of our inquiry into these matters, viz.. Why does a person whose (say) left external rectus muscle is paralysed have diplopia? we must first of all understand why with two normal eyes one sees singly. There is, as a matter of fact, no more reason why one should see double normally because he has two eyes, than that he should hear the same sound twice over because he has two ears—indeed, rather less; but in regard to this matter of single binocular vision there are two theories, neither of which is entirely satisfactory for all circum- stances, though both are useful. According to the first theory, all over those portions of the retina of one eye, images falling upon which impinge also on that of the other eye, every individual spot on the right retina has a cor- responding point on the left, the fibres leading from which join, pi'esumably at the chiasma, and proceed together to the centre of vision. Impressions falling upon what one might callOCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 150 the duplicated terminal of the central cell are received as one only. The second theory has reference to the muscles, and is to the effect tiiat, according to the precise amount of inner- vation which is required, or which would be required, to enable the macula to receive an impression of any object, do we judge of its precise position in space: if each eye would require the same degree the object is mentally referred to the same spot—is seen singly, in other words. On either of these two supposi- tions the occurrence of double vision when a muscle is paralysed is easily enough explained, for, according to the first, the two images of the one object fall vipon non-corresponding points of the right and left retinte, and are therefore interpreted as two; while according to the other, the suffering eye is erroneously believed to be gazing in a direction other than that which in reality it has adopted; the jiosition, then, of all objects seen by that eye is incorrectly judged. Let us take again the case of paralysis of the left external rectus; on account of its insufficient action, the eye looks more towards the right side than the patient supposes it to do, he therefore refers all objects seen by it to situations farther to the left than those which they really occupy. The muscular- sense theory is the more satisfactory of the two. In regard to the symptoms produced there are three chief points to be considered ; not that these are by any means distinct from one another, for they are but different views of the same fact, but as a matter of convenience merely : these points are squint, double vision, and faulty projection. 1. Squint.—In a well-marked case of para- lysis of either of the major lateral-movers of the eye, strabismus is, at least in certain posi- tions, sufficiently obvious. To take again our old example, in paralysis of the left externus, the left eye, since the weakened muscle is in- capable of pulling it to the left, stands in a position of over-convergence; the patient has an obvious convergent strabismus. Manifestly, the degree of squint will vary, other things being equal, with the degree to which the affected muscle is called upon to exercise its function of moving to the left, and fails to do so. When the patient looks to his right hand side, since in that position the external rectus is not called upon to act, the squint will be non-existent, but in proportion as the patient is called upon to look more to his left the squint will be present in ever-increasing degree. Herein lies the essential difference between con- comitant strabismus and paralytic strabismus; in the former (which see) the squint is equal in degree all over the field of fixation, while in that at present under consideration it varies with every alteration of the position of the fixation object. In the cases of the internal and external recti squint may be obvious, but when one has to deal with paralysis of any of the other muscles he is forced to rely for diagnosis on other considerations. 2. Double vision, in some part or other of the field of fixation, exists in any case of paralysis of one of the exterior muscles, provided that the patient has sufficient intelligence to perceive it, that the vision of each eye is at least fair, and that the deviation of the suffering eye is neither so minute that the separation is not perceived, nor so excessive that the picture falls upon a very peripheral portion of the retina, and so does not impress itself upon the notice. It is by means of the position and character of the diplopia induced that one is enabled to decide, as a matter of practice, which muscle is involved in the great majority of cases. In order that the practitioner may be able to do this, it is absolutely essential that he should have at his finger ends precise knowledge of the physiological action of each of the exterior muscles of the globe. A very brief note of these must here be given. The external and internal recti have simple actions; they turn the eye, or, to speak more correctly, the cornea, outwards and inwards respectively. Each of the other muscles, however, has a triple action; it moves the cornea either upwards or downwards, and either outwards or inwards, while at the same time it so draws upon the upper or lower half of the cornea as to rotate the upper extremity of its vertical meridian either inwards (towards the nose) or outwards (towards the temple). The superior rectus, being inserted rather to the inner side of the vertical meridian of the cornea, not merely turns the cornea upwai'ds, but in virtue of its position is able to act in this manner to the best advantage when the cornea has by other muscles been at the same time turned outwards. It also tends to draw the cornea inwards as a whole, and to rotate the upper end of its vertical meridian inwards. The inferior rectus, being analogous in position, turns the cornea downwai-ds, acting best while the eye is looking outwards; it also turns the cornea inwards, and rotates the upper half of the cornea outwards. The superior oblique, running as it does backwards and outwards from the pulley, turns the cornea downwards, acting best when the eye is looking inwards; and in addition, it moves the cornea outwards as a whole, while rotating its upper half inwards. The inferior ol)lique turns the cornea upwards, acting best when the eye is looking inwards ; also turning the whole cornea outwards and rotating its upper half outwards. A moment's comparison of these statements, which indicate roughly the actions of the various nuiscles, will show that any two of these muscles agree in one of the three actions which each accomplishes, while they differ in the other two. For example,OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 151 the superior rectus and the inferior oblique agree in moving the eye upwards, but the former turns the cornea as a whole, and its upper part, inwards, while the latter has precisely contrary actions. It will further be noted that there exists a difference in regard even to that function which they perform in common; thus, taking the same two muscles, the superior rectus acts best as an elevator when the eye is turned outwards, the inferior oblique when the eye is looking inwards (towards the nose). The importance of this fact will be seen presently. We are in a position now, having refreshed our memory in regard to the principal function of each muscle, to approach the question of the precise muscle involved in any case of binocular diplopia. (a) It is clear, in the first place, that each muscle having a principal action of its own, and in the case of all but two, also subsidiary actions, it will be in the line of that principal action that the failure will become manifest. Thus if the chief function of a muscle be to move the cornea downwards, double vision will become manifest, or most manifest, when an attempt is made to look downwards; and further, if the function of that muscle is best exercised when the eye is at the same time looking inwards, it will be in that attitude that the double vision will be most obvious of all— the images will there be farther apart. There is no muscle whose function can be taken up and discharged by any other or combination of others; if the external rectus be paralysed, no doubt there are other two muscles ^the obliques) which move the cornea outwards, but they are quite incapable of taking up the role of the external rectus—and so with all the others. We come to this, then, that it is in the direction in which a muscle has normally its maximum efficacy that its failure to act comes to be most evident. It must not, however, be supposed that in no other dii'ections can double vision be demonstrated, but the patient is, generally speaking, not conscious of it; though the fact that the position of the eye is incorrect can, with proper means, be demonstrated also. In paralysis of the external rectus, to return to this as an example, double vision is complained of upon looking outwards; but if we deprive the patient of any power to fuse images which are near together by employing a vertical prism to separate them vertically, lateral separation of the images, due to inefficiency in the active or in the controlling power of the external rectus, becomes evident over the whole field. The first point in proceeding to the discovery of the actual muscle involved is to ascertain in what chief direction diplopia is complained of. It is a muscle whose duty is to move the eye in that direction which is paralysed. The patient says he sees double on looking downwards ; the immediate and perfectly cor- rect conclusion is that the muscle paralysed is one whose (abrogated) function it is to turn the cornea downwards. And, further, the vertical separation of the two images will be greater either to the left hand or to the right, the eye being at the same time in an attitude of looking down, according as the muscle involved is facilitated in its action under ordinary conditions by the eye being at the same moment turned to left or to right. The first rule, then, is that double vision is to be found in one or other of the great directions, upwards, downwards, to right or to left of the patient, and the muscle paralysed is one of those whose function it is to move the eye in that direction. (b) As one moves the test object, which for convenience sake is often a lighted candle, farther and farther in the direction in which double vision exists (say, downwards), the call upon the enfeebled muscle increasing, and its inability to meet the demand becoming more obvious, the separation of the two images, the false and the true, becomes ever wider and wider; it is easy to decide which image belongs to which eye by means of a coloured glass held before one eye, or by suddenly interposing a screen before one eye, and causing the patient to say which image is coloured or which has disappeared ; but that -is not enough, we require to know which is the false image—which, that is, belongs to the misdirected eye. The answer to this question, which is one that gives much trouble to the beginner, is simply that the image which is farthest in the direction in which double vision exists is the false image. If the diplopia is manifest below, the lower image is the false, belonging to the paralysed eye; if the diplopia is greatest to the left-hand side, that image most to the left is the false, and so on. This gives the answer to the second question, namely, which is the affected eye 1 (c) The third question, which muscle of that eye is paralysed"? is answered by the observa- tion that the false image is deviated exactly in the direction of action of the paralysed muscle. Thus, to take the three directions of error, if the false image is above the true, the muscle paralysed is an elevator (and similarly with the depressors); if the images are crossed, it is an inward mover which is paralysed (and similarly with simple or homonymous diplopia); and if the upper end of the false image is rotated to the right, the paralysed muscle has it as one of its functions to rotate the globe about a sagittal axis so that the upper part of the cornea shall be rotated to the right (and similarly with the left rotation). The writer ventures to think that this method is the simplest and most " physiological" that can well be employed, since it depends entirely upon the knowledge of the normal action of152 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF the muscles in health; it is certainly infinitely better than any mnemonics, which are apt to fail precisely when they are required. It may, perhaps, be useful to give an illustration of the application of these rules :—A man complains of diplopia, which, excluding monocular diplopia, may be due to paralysis of any one of twelve muscles, six in each eye. Employing the first rule, we ascertain that it is in looking down- wards that double vision is most manifest; this narrows down the possibilities to the four depressors of the two eyes (superior oblique and inferior rectus). By using a red glass or other method we discover that the lower (false) image belongs to the left eye; the second rule has thus limited the possibilities to the two muscles of the left eye. On further investigation we find that the height-difference increases to the patient's right, which makes it clear that the defaulting muscle must be the left superior oblique. Other confirmatory tests may be added, when it will probably be discovered that the upper end of the false image is twisted to the right, and that the lateral separation is homony- mous, in accordance with the physiological action of the superior oblique as explained above. In regard to these confirmatory tests it should be stated that they are apt to fail, and should not be too much relied upon. If there happens, in such a case as is suggested above, to have been in health a tendency to (latent) divergence of the optic axes, as is not infrequently the case, then, when there is no possibility of combining the two images on account of the vertical diplopia, the latent divergence is apt to assert itself, with the result that in place of homony- mous, we may have crossed diplopia. One is sometimes put about, too, by the patient mis- taking the vertical for the inclined image, and vice versa; the effect of this will be, that in place of saying that the lower image inclines to the right, he may state that the upper inclines to the left. Nor is it a wise plan to speak of the two images inclining to or from one another, but rather to right and to left, since in the event of the separation being crossed when it "ought" to be homonymous, one is apt to be led into error. There are numberless minor points in regard to diplopia and the paralysis of the individual muscles, some of great interest and considerable importance, but for the dis- cussion of which the reader must be referred to a good text-book. The precise characters of the diplopia produced by paralysis of each of the muscles severally can be readily deduced from a knowledge of the physiological action, as indicated above. Two or more of the muscles may be paralysed at the same time, a condition which is most apt to be observed when either the trunk of the third nerve is affected, or when all the muscles attached to the eye are paralysed together, a condition known as ophthalmoplegia. When the whole third nerve is paralysed. there is present, of course, inability to employ any of the external ocular muscles with the exception of the external rectus (sixth nerve) and the superior oblique (fourth nerve). There is, therefore, total inability to move the eye either upwards or inwards, and the power to move downwards is extremely limited, since the superior oblique has but little action as a depressor except when the cornea is turned inwards, a position which it is impossible for the eye to assume from the paralysis of all the inward-movers. The eye, therefore, stands almost stationary in a position of divergence, is incapable of upward movement, and on an attempt to look down does little but rotate slightly about its sagittal axis as the superior oblique turns the upper part of the cornea inwards. The paralysis of the levator palpebrfe superioris prevents the patient from being much annoyed by diplopia, but if the lid be raised by the hand, it will be found that there is double vision over the whole field of fixation, save, perhaps, at the extreme outer part. The dip- lopia is crossed, the separation of the images becoming enormous as the test object passes over to the healthy side; in the upper part of the field the false image is above the true, in the lower half it is below the true. In such a case the pupil and ciliary muscle are also paralysed, the effects of which are discussed elsewhere. In certain cases the levator is less seriously affected than the muscles of the globe, and it and the anterior muscles seem to have a tendency to recover more quickly than the others. When ophthalmoplegia occurs all the exterior muscles of the eye are paralysed, with or without affection of the interior. The etio- logical significance of combinations of the various mviscles in their paralysis will be discussed later. In connection with the subject of diplopia one must draw attention to two points of interest, namely, the relative inconvenience to which the patient is subjected by paralysis of the various muscles, and the untaught, one might almost say reflex, means which he adopts to get rid of the annoyance. Since we have less to do with objects above us than with those on or below the level of the eyes, paralysis of any of the upward-movers causes much less annoyance than in the case of the other muscles; paralysis of a pure lateral-mover is, unless very severe in degree, easily combated by alteration of the position of the head, whereas in walking, and still more in descending a staircase, paralysis of one of the downward-movers causes great incon- venience. The means adopted by the patient consist in so placing the head and eyes that the offending muscle is in its position of greatest inutility, and the bad gearing produced by its inaction is therefore at its minimum. Thus when there is double vision to the left the patient turns his head to the left, and at the same time turns both eyes to the right; theOCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 153 offending left - mover is thus thrown out of action, all the objects with which the patient is dealing at the moment are put over to his right side, and double vision reduced to a minimum. Similarly if the diplopia is in the lower half of the field, the patient endeavours to have as many objects above the level of the eyes as possible, and to do without bringing any de- pressor into play, by keeping the head lowered and turning the eyes upwards. For the correc- tion of the faulty inclination of the false image, the unusual attitude adopted by the head is much less obvious, but alteration of position may be expressed in this way that (as is, indeed, the case with the other movements) the head is turned in the direction in which the defaulting muscle ought to rotate the eye, or—what is the same thing—in the same sense as the inclination of the false image. 3. Faulty Projection. — The third of the chief points in regard to the symptoms pro- duced by paralysis of ocular muscles, namely, faulty projection, need not detain us long. It depends upon the wrong estimate made by the weak muscle of the amount of effect produced upon the position of the eye by the expenditure of nerve-energy supplied to it. This might be expressed in the following manner :—Suppose that in health enough energy were given out under certain circumstances to rotate the eye through an angle of 30°, if the actual power of the muscle is by paresis reduced to one-third, then with the same expenditure of energy the result will be a movement only through 10°. Now it is by the amount of nerve-energy ex- pended in bringing the macula to bear upon an object, and not by the effect produced, that we judge of its position in space; therefore, in paralysis of any muscle we are apt to " refer " an object to a point in space farther in the line of action of that muscle than it in reality is. In a recent case of paralysis of the external rectus, for example, this can be easily demon- strated. Let the patient cover the sound eye, and while he fixes your uplifted finger with the affected one, let him dart his finger quickly at yours; it will be found that his finger passes yours on the side of the weak muscle, showing that he has been under the impression that your finger was farther in that direction than it really stood. Other methods of demonstrating the same error of jvidgment will occur to the reader. In point of fact, it is the existence of this faulty projection, as much as the actual diplopia, which causes the inconvenience and discomfort from which the patient suffers ; in descending a stair, for example, he has the double difficulty of seeing double and of imagin- ing the step to be where it is not. Etiology A point of great importance to be settled before any operative or other treatment is begun, is whether a convergent squint is due to a paralytic condition, or to refractive ano- maly. The following matters should be inquired into:— Age of Patient. — Convergent concomitant strabismus usually develops before the age of four or five years; paralysis may occur at any age. Refraction.—Nearly all convergent concomi- tant squints are associated with hypermetropia. Onset. — Concomitant squint at its inception is very often erratic, coming and going for some time—it may be seen at times even for months before becoming fixed; paralytic squint is almost always sudden or rapid in its onset. Diplopia.—In the great majority of cases of concomitant strabismus diplopia is not com- plained of, and is difficult to elicit, even on careful testing ; on the other hand, diplopia is not, as pointed out above, invariaUy present in paralysis, though it is present in the vast majority of cases. Primary Deviation.—In concomitant squint the fault of position or degree of convergence is the same all over the field of fixation, as its name implies, while in paralytic squint the error in position is greatest in certain positions. Secondary Deviation.—When the eye which ordinarily fixes the object is hidden behind the hand or other screen, that which usually squints is then obliged to fix, and the original eye devi- ates ; in concomitant strabismus the secondary deviation is not greater than the primary. In paralytic squint, when the paretic eye is fixing, the effort required on the part of the feeble muscle to draw it into line is much greater than in the case of a normal muscle, and the corresponding impulse sent to the associated lateral muscle of the sound eye, therefore, produces a more extensive alteration in posi- tion ; in other words, the secondary deviation is greater than the primary. Projection.—In paralytic squint the projection by the misdirected eye is erroneous ; it is correct in concomitant strabismus. When we have decided that such and such a mixscle is paralysed, we have only taken the first of a series of steps towards the diagnosis, for we must know also the seat of the lesion and its precise nature, before we can be said to have arrived at an understanding of the case. Where, then, is the lesion situated % Thei-e are four situations, damage in which is capable of producing paralysis of ocular muscles. The lesion may be in the orbit, at the base of the brain, nuclear, or in the nerve paths and centres superior to the nuclei. With the last of these classes we have little to deal in the present article further than to say that, since above the nuclei the nerve impulses are to movements of the globe rather than to action of individual muscles, and it is in the nuclei that such im- pulses are transmitted to the individual muscles.OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 154 a lesion in that region is not attended by an affection of muscles in the sense in which that phrase is employed here. Certain general principles, in the first place, gnide one in the decision as between the other three possible situations ; thus a paralysis which picks one or more muscles out of several which receive their nerve-supply from one nerve, is much more likely to be peripheral (orbital) than basal. A lesion which affects all the muscles supplied by the third nerve is, on the contrary, more likely to be intracranial than peripheral, while a lesion affecting the two muscles of accommodation could hardly be other than nuclear. In the decision of these points we are further greatly assisted by the presence or absence of such other symptoms as are exemplified by headache, hemiplegia, and paralysis of the facial nerve. I. The lesions which have a nucleay- situation present certain interesting features: (a) The paralysis may be congenital, as is probably the case with some of the examples of congenital ptosis with which one meets, especially those in which there is at the same time total inability to move the eye upwards. This could certainly not be of basal origin, nor is it at all likely to be of orbital origin, and produced by non-de- velopment of the levator palpebrse, the superior rectus, and the inferior oblique, all of which are, in such a case, imresponsive. (i) Headache, so frequent a symptom in various forms of brain disease, may be conspicuously absent, though in other cases it is very severe, and it may precede by a considerable time the paralytic symptoms, (c) The paralysis is not infrequently isolated, one or more out of the muscles supplied by one nerve being picked out; thus paralysis of the inferior rectus may be nuclear in its origin, all the other muscles under the command of the third nerve escaping. One of the most striking forms of nuclear paralysis is paralysis of the whole third nerve, except the two in- terior muscles (iris and accommodation), {d) The paralysis is not seldom quite transitory, but reappearing in the same or other muscles; with this one is familiar in the cases of loco- motor ataxia, the paralysis occurring sometimes in the earlier stages of which disease are most probably of nuclear origin, (e) The paralysis sometimes spreads from one muscle to another, it may even cross over to the other side of the body. (/) Other complications may be present at the time, or may follow, which have their oi'igin also in those nuclei which are anatomi- cally in more or less close approximation to those first affected. Thus polyuria and somnolence are not infrequently observed. {g) Nuclear paralysis may occur at any age. {h) Nuclear paralysis may be acute, recovering rapidly, re- maining permanently, or death from complica- tions occurring very shortly ; or may be of very slow progress indeed, extending over a number of years, with or without remissions, (i) Nuclear paralysis has the curious feature, in many cases, of varying considerably from day to day, or even at different parts of the day, and also of being to a considerable extent under the control of the patient. Thus a nuclear ptosis (ex- cluding the congenital nuclear variety) may seem severe in the evening when the patient is fatigued, and quite trifling in the morning when he is fresh ; the patient, too, if urged to make an effort to lift the lid, is often quite well able to do so for a minute or so, but the ptosis gradually reappears so soon as the attention is relaxed. The condition known as ophthalmoplegia, in which all the exterior muscles without the in- terior, or all the interior without the exterior, or both combined, are paralysed, is generally due to nuclear lesion; this is all the more certain if the condition is bilateral. There is, however, the possibility of such a condition being produced by a tumour or other gross lesion of the orbit; it may also be basal, and possibly may even be fascicular. It is a noteworthy feature of ophthalmoplegia that the accompany- ing ptosis is often much slighter in degree than the other paralysis. It is stated by some authors that bilateral ophthalmoplegia is always syphil- itic in origin, but the present writer does not see his way to accept so sweeping an assertion. II. The causes of basal paralysis resolve themselves into three, viz. : (a) Inflammatory affection involving the nerve trunks (meningitis, etc.) ; (5) pressure, either directly by tumour of various sorts, by vascular distension, or indirectly by pressure from enlargement of the ventricles, or the existence of a pus formation in the cerebral substance; and (c) disease of the nerve trunks themselves. One ought also to add that the nerves may be injured in fracture of the base of the skull. III. Paralysis which has its origin in the orbit may be due either to pressure of a tumour of any sort in the orbit or adjoining cavities, to periostitis at the apex of the orbit, to mechanical injury to nerve or muscle, to congenital absence (partial or complete) of a muscle, or to those peripheral lesions which are exemplified by the action of rheumatism, syphilis, diphtheria, and "cold." If now we look at this question of the origin of any paralysis from an entirely different point of view, we can obtain much information from the study of the various combinations of muscles and nerves involved, including in this review the combination of paralysis of certain of the eye muscles with the implication of other sensory and motor nerves. Certain combinations afford fairly precise information of the seat of the lesion, as indeed we have to some extent already seen The information thus obtained is naturally of great value in cases of brain lesion above the nuclei (fascicular lesions), as assisting materially to localise the lesion with greater precision.155 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF Bilateral paralysis of both third nerves alone may be nuclear, and if so, the interior muscles may escape; it may arise from compression of the nerves at their point of emergence from the pons, it may be due to basal meningitis, or to pressure from distended blood-vessels at the base. Both external recti may be paralysed from pressure on the two sixth nerves as they lie near together at the posterior margin of the pons, by more diffused pressure produced by tumours in the middle fossa, or by increased intracranial tension, or from bilateral disease of the nuclei on the floor of the ventricle; for the long exposed course of the nerve along the base of the skull lays it open to involvement in any inflammatory process in the neighbourhood, to pressure from any intracranial cause, and to involvement in injuries. Progressive paralysis of all the muscles of one eye might be orbital, basal, or nuclear: if orbital, one would expect to find some other evidence of local tumour or inflammation; if it were basal or orbital, the optic nerve of the same eye could hardly long escape damage, while a progressive lesion damaging thus the nuclei might readily spread laterally, and, catching the fibres from the optic tract of the same side, produce hemianopsia, and might even cause hemiantesthesia ; a nuclear lesion might also cross to the nuclei of the opposite third nerve. It has been shown that hemiplegia has a curious relation with paralysis of the third nerve of the opposite side:—If the two con- ditions arise simultaneously, the probable cause is a pontine lesion ; if the third nerve paralysis precedes that of the limbs a nuclear lesion in the floor of the ventricle is the cause, while if the limbs are paralysed before the eye, a basal lesion has injured the peduncle and ex- tended its influence to the trunk of the third nerve. There is probably a cortical centre for eleva- tion of the (opposite) upper lid, situated close to the arm centre, a lesion of which, or of the fibres from it, will cause unilateral ptosis. Conjugate deviation is that condition in which the eyes are turned to one side, and are incap- able of being directed to the other. This is a pretty frequent accompaniment of hemiplegia, and may be either temporary or constant—most usually the former; it may be ^'caused either by paralysis of the muscles moving the eye to one side, or by irritation of the centres (or paths) for movement in the opposite. If the lesion causing this condition be in the hemispheres and of a paralytic character, then the patient " looks away from " his paralysed side ; if of an irritative nature, he looks towards his convulsed side; while if the lesion be pontine, the precise contrary is the case, since a lesion in (say) the right side of the pons may catch the tracts going to the left limbs, and at the same time the fibres running from the right sixth nucleus to the right external and left internal recti. Move- ments of both eyes to one side are initiated (under the volitional centres) from the sixth nucleus of the side towards which the movement is made, and apparently the sixth nucleus has a predominating influence over that portion of the opposite third nerve nucleus which innervates the internal rectus. This only holds good so far as lateral movements are concerned, for it must be kept clearly in mind that paralysis of movement to the right may be present, and on an attempt to move the left eye to the right side the left internal rectus fails to execute the slightest contraction, and yet the patient may exhibit no failure when asked to converge ; that is, the left internal rectus will contract readily along with the opposite internal rectus in a movement of convergence, and yet remain quite inactive on an attempt to look to the right side. An apparent conjugate deviation is sometimes to be noticed in hemianopsia, the patient having lost the visual stimulus to movements towards the blind side. A lesion in the pons does not necessarily affect the other internal rectus; it may, however, cause paralysis of the sixth nerve alone. In lesions of the sixth nucleus the facial nerve is apt also to suffer, the two nuclei being in very close apposition. Along with the aifections of the muscles must be reckoned one or two conditions very much less frequent than the paralysis of which we have been speaking. Of these, the first is paralysis of convergence. Just as the internal rectus may be paralysed quoad conj ugate lateral movements, and remain intact quoad con- vergence, as we have seen, so the two internal recti may be incapable of acting together in convergence, though acting freely along with the external rectus in lateral movements. This rare condition, which must have a nuclear origin, occurs under similar conditions to other nuclear lesions; it must on no account be con- fused with that inability to converge satis- factorily which one sees especially in high myopia, and which is known as insufficiency of convergence, and sometimes, but very in- correctly, as insufficiency of the internal recti. The second condition is the precisely opposite condition, which has been variously regarded as a paralysis of divergence and as a spasm of convergence. This is not the place to discuss an abstruse and controversial question, and it will be sufficient to say that perhaps until we have certain evidence of the normal existence of any function of divergence imder ordinary conditions it is safer to regard the lesion as a spasm of convergence, for as regards the existence of a function of convergence there can be no doubt. The condition is extremely rare. Paralysis of upward or of downward movement of the eyes is also met with ; the former is not infrequently associated with congenital ptosis, and may be either unilateral or bilateral: its156 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF origin is probably either nuclear or superior to the nuclei. Along with some other symptoms of paralysis of the sympathetic, such as contracted pupil and retraction of the globe, a form of ptosis is sometimes met witli. A peculiar affection of the third nerve, to which, when accompanied by hemicrania on the same side, Charcot gave the name of ophthalmic migraine, is occasionally seen, in which paralysis, usually if not always attacking the whole nerve, comes on, is re- covered from, and recurs again and again ; this is sometimes associated with the menstrual function in women, but it occurs also in men. It is still a question which awaits decision whether such cases are nuclear or basal in their origin; certainly in some there has been disease of the trunk of the nerve. Another peculiar condition is congenital paralysis of one or both of the sixth nerves; in this condition there are two puzzling circumstances, namely, that secondai-y deviation may be entirely absent, and that, as a rule, on cessation of attempted move- ment to one or other side, the eyes are brought spontaneously to mid position again. As regards the etiology of ocular paralysis one need not be other than brief. Syphilis accounts for a very large proportion of the cases either directly or indirectly; for apart from those cases, not indeed very numerous, in which various muscles may be paralysed as a " direct" manifestation of syphilis, one must consider those occurring from the pressure of a gumma, or the result of syphilitic disease of vessels, and those which form, sometimes early, sometimes later, manifestations of locomotor ataxy—itself so frequently of syphilitic origin. Tubercular lesions account for a considerable number of the remainder, both by pressure of nodules, by meningitis, and direct disease of nuclei. Dia- betes and diphtheria are alike in this i-espect, that the toxin of each is able to cause nuclear paralysis {e.g. of accommodation), and in the course of either inflammatory complications are apt to lead to direct paralysis of peripheral nerves. A certain proportion of cases is due to trauma, either intracranial, as when the sixth nerves are implicated in a fracture of the base of the skull, or orbital, as when the inferior oblique is injured by a blow or penetrating wound damaging the floor of the orbit. (It is said that the inferior oblique is never paralysed alone except by trauma.) But a large number of cases have to be attributed to rheumatism and to " cold " ; these causes are specially prone to affect the external rectus muscle, and are not infrequently recurrent. Indirectly, also, Bright's disease is responsible for certain cases. On the question of prognosis a few words must be said, and it is convenient to take the different situations of the lesions separately. Fascicular lesions depend entirely for their prognosis on the nature and situation of the damage, and on its completeness. The articles upon various cerebral lesions should be consulted. Nuclear lesions vary very greatly in this matter, for while some are excessively slowly progressive (cases have been known to become very gradually worse during a period of twenty years), others pass away in a few days, while yet others are followed speedily by death. As a general rule, if the onset be sudden, the patient will either recover or the condition will remain stationary; it is rare for a sudden onset to be followed by slow progress. Thus the prognosis in post - diphtheritic paralysis of accommodation, which is an acutely occurring nuclear paralysis, is very good; that of the ophthalmoplegia of children is fairly good, for most of the patients recover completely, al- though in a few the I'esult is very different. In the author's experience, again, nuclear paralyses occurring in diabetes have been of very sinister import, though all writers do not consider them so very grave. In the paralyses of locomotor ataxy, as we have seen, which are probably nuclear in situation, the prospect of recovery is good, but in this as in some other conditions there is danger of recurrence. In such basal paralyses as are occasioned by pressure of ;i neoplasm upon the nerve, or by its implication in an actual fracture, no improvement is of course to be looked for, and in those cases in which a meningitis has been the cause, the nerves becoming either implicated in the in- flammation or pressed on by the effusion, the chief consideration is the continued life of the patient; but this granted, and the health of the patient improved, a wonderful degree of im- provement in the muscular condition may also occur. In the orbital causes of paralysis, as well as in the last two headings, a very great deal depends upon the question whether the lesion is or is not syphilitic; if it be, the prognosis is good, and even after a long time of apparent unsuccess one may see a paralysis pass quickly away, whether produced by a nuclear lesion, the pressure of a gumma at the base, or an orbital affection. In the ordinary orbital paralysis recovery is the rule, but not without exception, though the process is sometimes dis- tressingly slow. The treatment of paralysis of any of the ocular muscles must, in the first instance, proceed upon the lines which are indicated by its etiology : in a rheumatic patient we should employ anti-rheumatic remedies internally; in a syphilitic, anti-syphilitics, and so on. Locally the only treatment which is, in the opinion of the writer, likely to be of much service is blistering, and its period of probable benefit is but short. The method which he prefers is to apply the blister over a very small area of the temple, and to repeat it over a neighbouring portion of skin two or three times at intervals of forty - eight hours. Blistering has fallenOCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF 157 apparently into disrepute, not because it is ineffective, for in truth it is of great service, but chiefly, as it seems to the writer, because pathologists find a little difficulty in explaining the mode in which it acts ; it has the misfortune to be, or to look as if it were, at variance with accepted theories, and therefore practitioners are apt to look askance at it. On the other hand, the author cannot recommend the applica- tion of electricity to the paralysed muscle, a method of treatment in which some place re- liance. Michel recommended mechanical traction of the globe in the line of action of the muscle involved; he administered cocaine, and then (supposing the external rectus to be the muscle involved) seized the conjunctiva with fixation forceps, and gently pulled the cornea outwards and inwards alternately with the idea of assist- ing the muscle to recover tone. The author is not aware whether the method is still employed by any surgeon now. In post-diphtheritic paralysis of accommoda- tion simple tonics should be given, and with time the power of the ciliary muscle will recover. It generally does so very rapidly after the lapse of a few weeks of almost complete paralysis ; the author sees no advantage in the employment of eserine, which is sometimes recommended. Since the lesion is not muscular, but nuclear, such "treatment" is not in the true sense treatment at all. As well might one turn the hands of the clock round the dial with one's finger when the works are damaged. Nor can we see what possible advantage is gained by ordering convex spectacles, save as a very temporary relief to symptoms. Manifestly in cases in which the nerve is destroyed by tumour pressure or by tearing across, no medicine can restore its function. In such cases as resist all treatment and remain permanent it may, however, be necessary to resort to remedies of a character totally different from any which we have yet mentioned. In the case of a patient suffering from an incurable paralysis of an ocular muscle, and continuing to be seriously annoyed by double vision from this cause, we may have recourse to the use of a prism held before the eye or eyes in such a position as to neutralise the faulty attitude of the visual lines. To take one of the simplest cases, in permanent partial paralysis, or during the slow course of recovery from a paralysis of the external rectus muscle of the right eye, there may be troublesome diplopia in all positions save when the patient is looking towards his left side; such a person may have his discomfort much relieved by the wearing of a prism before the right eye with its apex inwards, which will thus neutralise the effect of his too great convergence. In certain cases, especially when the patient does not require any convex or concave glasses, it would be highly inconvenient to wear a single prism, and it is better to divide the effect between the two eyes. Thus, in a case in which a prism of 8° is required, apex upwards, to unite the images, it is better that the patient should wear before each eye a prism of 4°, on one side apex upwards, on the other apex downwards. But even comparatively feeble prisms are so heavy and inconvenient to wear, that in practice it is not very often that they are prescribed. When they are employed care must be taken that they do not quite fully correct the defect, as it is good practice to encourage the enfeebled muscle to efforts at recovery by leaving still a slight separation of the images, which may be over- come when the desire for fusion urges the weak muscle to contract. If full correction is worn there is no incentive to the muscle to act. Operative measures, which ought never to be undertaken till all hope of recovery has had to be given up, and till perhaps a year or more has elapsed without recovery, may be of several kinds. We may either endeavour to assist an enfeebled muscle to perform its function satis- factorily by bringing its points of origin and insertion nearer together (advancement), or by weakening its antagonist of the same eye, or we may bring the sound eye into line with the affected one by attaching one or more of the muscles of the former either by advancement or tenotomy. To take an example:—In permanent paralysis of the left superior oblique, the eye is in a position of threefold error, viz., it stands too high, it is convergent, and the upper portion of its cornea is rotated outwards, since all three of the contrary actions of the muscle are more or less completely lost. To remedy this con- dition, then, we may (1) strengthen the weakened muscle (advancement of left superior oblique), or its principal coadjutor (advancement of left inferior rectus), but to do this latter would increase the faulty rotation about the antero- posterior axis ; or (2) weaken one or both of the antagonists of the same eye (tenotomy of left superior rectus or left inferior oblique). The former operation would also have the in- convenience of increasing still further the faulty rotation of the eye about the antero-posterior axis, while the latter, even if practicable, would increase the convergence. Or we may displace the other eye in a parallel direction either by (3) weakening the chief muscle which draws it in the parallel direction to that of the paralysed muscle (tenotomy of right inferior rectus), or by (4) strengthening that muscle which draws the right eye in a direction parallel to the actual displacement (advancement of the right superior rectus). It will be seen that tenotomy of the right inferior rectus in all three directions of movement " tunes " the right eye to the new faulty position of the left, while advancement of the superior rectus would be apt to give an increase in convergence, already too great. It need, perhaps, hardly be observed that no opera-158 OCULAR MUSCLES, AFFECTIONS OF tion on the oblique muscles is, as a matter of fact, practicable, although, for the sake of stating the problem completely, interference with them has been suggested in the above scheme, which, mutatis mutandis, can be applied to the case of anyof themuscles. Fora description of the actual methods of operation upon the muscles, whether by tenotomy or by advancement, one of the ordinary text-books had better be consulted. OculO-. — In compound words oculo- (Lat. ondus, an eye) as a prefix means relating to the eye; e.g. the ocido-motor or third cranial nerve {see Brain, Physiology of, Third Nerve ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of. Nuclear Paralysis), oculo-frontal, oculo-zygomatic, etc. OculuS.—The eye, as in Oculus hovis {see BuPHTHALMUs); O.D. is the contraction for oculus dexter. OcytOCiC. See Oxytocic. Odaxesmus.—The term given to the bitten tongue or cheek of epilepsy or eclampsia (Gr. oSa^oj, to bite). Odessa.. See Balneology {Russia). Odol.—A mouth wash, which is said to con- tain salol, peppermint, saccharin, and alcohol; it is disinfectant and deodorant. Odontagra. — Toothache of a gouty nature. Odontalg'ia. — Toothache from dental caries, or simply of a neuralgic nature. See Teeth {Dental Caries, Predisposinig Causes). Odonterismus or Odonto- SynerismuS.—Chattering of the teeth. Odont hseiTIOd ia. — Since kcemodia means extreme sensitiveness of the teeth (having the teeth on edge), this term {odonthcemodia) is really tautological; it sometimes has the meaning of a scorbutic condition of the teeth. Odontitis.—Inflammation of the teeth. OdontO-.—In compound words odonto- as well as odont- (Gr. oSou'?, a tooth) as prefixes mean relating to the teeth; e.g. odontoid (tooth- like), odoyitopathij (disease of the teeth), etc. Odontoblasts.—The most superficial epithelium-like cells of the tooth-pulp which lie next to, and are instrumental in forming, the dentine. Odontoclasts.—The cells which lead to the absorption of the fangs of the milk teeth. Odontodol.—A dental anodyne said to contain cocaine and some other druss. Odontoid.—Tooth-like or dentate, e.g. the odontoid process of the axis vertebra. Odontolith.—The tartar (a calcareous deposit) which forms on the teeth. Odontoloxia.—The slanting or oblique position of the teeth. Odontoma.—A tumour originating in some part of a tooth during its development, and consisting of dentine, enamel, cement, or of a cystic structure. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Tumours of the Jaw, Odontomata); Teeth {Diseases of the Puljj, Secondary Hard Formations); Tumours {Con- nective Tissite Type, Odontomata). Odontotrypy or Odontotryphy. —The perforation of a tooth by drilling in order to reach the pulp-cavity to let out pus, etc. O'Dwyer'S Tubes.—Tubes employed for the intubation of the larynx. See Intuba- tion {Instruments used). Odynephobia.—Morbid dread of pain (Gr. 68vv7], pain, ^o/5etv, to fear). Sdema. See Angeioneurotic (Edema; Beriberi {Symptoms, CEdema); Brain, Affec- tions OF Blood-Vessels {CEdema of the Brain); Burns and Scalds {Seqvsloe, CEdema Glottidis); Chest-Wall, Affections of {Disorders of Circuy lation, CEdema); Diabetes jVIellitus ; Dropsy ; Dropsy, Epidemic ; Eclampsia ; Gastro-intes- TiNAL Disorders of Infancy {Inflammatory Diarrhoea, (Edema) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symptomatology, Dropsy); Hys- teria {hifantile, CEdema); Labour, Faults in THE Passenger {CEdema of the Foetus); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Pressure Phenomena, (Edema of the Cervix Uteri); Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {(Edematous Laryngitis); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Complications, Integumentary System, CEdema); Mumps (Complications, (Edema Glot- tidis) ; Nephritis {Clinical Features, Acute, Chronic); Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta {(Edema); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases OF the Fcetus {General Foetal Dropsy); Scarlet Fever {Complications); Sclerema Neonatorum {Diagnosis, Scleraidema); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (CEdema of the Scrotum); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symp- toms, Temporary, CEdema; Ulcers {Conditions ivhich prevent healing, CEdema). CEdipism.—The act of self evulsion of the eyes or destruction of the eyesight, in some forms of insanity; the origin of the word is found in the story of (Edipus, who put out his eyes when he found he had unwittingly murdered his father and committed incest with his mother. See Brit. Med. Journ., p. 1847, Dec. 28, 1907. OEnanthiC Acid.—An acid, or rather a mixture of acids (Ci4H2^02-I-H^O), obtained from oenanthic ether and having the odour of(ENANTHIC ACID 159 wine (Gr. oivrj, vine, and avOy], a blossom); oetmn- thylic acid is an oil having the smell of cod-fish, and forming cenanthylates. Oertel's IViethod. —A method of treating obesity, circulatory troubles, and emphysema by diminishing the amount of fluid taken, by regulating the diet {e.g. the fat), by mountain-climbing, and by systematic gymnastics. See Obesity (Treatment). Oesel. See Balneology (Russia, Livonia). CEsophageal.— Belonging to the oesophagus; e.c/. oesophageal haemorrhage (see H^MATEMESis, OEsophageal Hcemorrhage), or oesophageal stricture (see Typhoid Fever, Com- plicatio7is, (Esophageal Ulceration). Ssophag'ectomy.—Resection of the oesophagus. CEsophagism US. —Spasmodic dys- phagia or difficulty in swallowing, often due to gouty oesophagitis. See Oesophagus (Spasm or (Esophagismus). Ssophag^itiS. — Inflammation of the oesophagus. See (Esophagus (Injlammatio7i); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy (Dis- eases of the (Esophagus); HyEMATEMESis (Condi- tions that may simulate it). ^Esophag'O-. — In compound words oesophago- means relating or belonging to the oesophagus ; e.g. oesophago-malacia (post-mortem softening of the gullet), oesophago-mycosis (oesophageal disease due to fungi), etc. ^EsophagfOCele.—An abnormal dilata- tion of the oesophagus forming a diverticulum ; oesophago-ectasis. (£sophag:o - Enterostomy. — The operation of suturing the oesophagus to the duodenum as carried out in cases of complete removal of the stomach. See Stomach, Surgical (Operations, Complete Extirpation). CEsophag^OptOSiS. — Prolapse of the oesophagus. CEsophagrOSCOpy. —Examination of the oesophagus by a lamp or mirror, a some- what difficult procedure. See CEsophagus, In- juries AND Diseases (Examination). (Esophag:OStenOSiS. — Constriction of the oesophagus. CEsophagrOStomy. — The formation (by operation) of an artificial opening into the oesophagus, e.g. for the removal of a foreign body, or for malignant disease. See (Esophagus, Diseases of. CEsophag^Otomy. — The operation of opening into the oesophagus. See (Esophagus, Injuries and Diseases of (Operative Procedures). CEsophag^us, Injuries and Dis- eases of. Anatomy . . . . .159 Examination of .... . 160 Injuries ...... 160 Inflammation . . . . .161 Foreign Bodies . . . . .161 Tumours 162 Operative Treatment . . .163 Spasm . . . . .165 Dilatation ... . . 165 Malformation . . . . .166 See also Bronchi, Bronchial Glands (Morbid Anatomy, Effects of Pressure on the (Esophagus) ; Electricity (Use in Stricture of the (Esophagus); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy (Con- genital Anonmlies and Diseases of the (Eso- phagus) ; H^matemesis (From (Esophagus); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease, (Esophageal Varices) ; Hys- teria (Disorders of Digestive Organs, Dys- phagia) ; Indigestion (Special Forms, in (Eso- phageal Diverticula); Intestines, Diseases op, Medical (Anatomical Considerations, Develop- ment of the (Esophagus) ; Liver, Diseases of (Cirrhosis, Symptotns, Hoematemesis); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Complications, Alimentary, (Esophageal Ulceration) ; Lungs, Abscess of (Cancer of (Esophagus) ; Mediastinum (Acute Mediastinitis, Perforation of (Esophagus); Pha- rynx, Examination of (Foreign Bodies, etc.). Injuries and Diseases of the (Esophagus ANATomcAL Considerations. — The oesophagus extends from the body of the sixth cervical vertebra, or the disc between the sixth and seventh, to the tenth or eleventh dorsal vertebra. The cricoid cartilage forms the landmark for the commencement of the tube. For practical purposes it is essential to know the distance of certain parts of the oesophagus from the incisor teeth, because it is by means of bougies passed through the mouth that the presence of ob- struction is usually ascertained. From the incisor teeth to the commencement of the (esophagus the distance is from 5 to 6 inches. The oesophagus itself is from 9 to 10 inches long, and may be divided into three portions. (a) The cervical portion, extending from the level of the cricoid cartilage to the upper border of the manubrium sterni, measuring 1^ to 2 in. (b) The thoracic portion, terminating at the aperture in the diaphragm, and measuring 7 in. (c) The abdominal portion, measuring about 1 inch ; thus, if the bougie stops at a distance of 6 to 8 inches from the teeth the obstruction is at the commencement of the oesophagus, and if it stops at 14 to 15 inches the obstruction is at the cardiac end. The direction of the oesophagus in the antero- posterior plane does not follow the line of the vertebral column in its whole extent. As far(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 160 as the third dorsal vertebra it follows the course of the spinal column, but at this spot it passes almost vertically downwards to the diaphragm. In the frontal plane the oesophagus inclines slightly towards the left side at the junction of its cervical and thoracic portions, and regains the middle line about the fifth dorsal vertebra. It then deviates again slightly to the left as it passes through the diaphragm. It is most important to know accurately the relations of the oesophagus. In the nech the right recurrent laryngeal nerve lies along its right side, whereas the left nerve lies just at its anterior surface; hence, when the oesophagus is exposed on the left side (the usual side for the operation of cesophagotomy), it is important to avoid the nerve by opening the oesophagus rather on its posterior than its anterior surface. The inferior thyroid veins form a plexus on the anterior surface of the tube, and the left inferior thyroid artery lies in contact with its left side. In the thorax at the bifurcation of the trachea the oesophagus is rather to the left of the middle line, so that the left bronchus lies against its anterior surface—a fact which ac- counts for the greater frequency with which the left bronchus is implicated in growths of the oesophagus. In the angle between the two bronchi are several lymphatic glands, and these, when the seat of abscesses, may discharge their contents into the bronchi ; further, in cases where cicatricial tissue forms in and around these glands, the lumen of the bronchi may be somewhat narrowed by the contracting tissue. Below the bifurcation of the trachea the pericardium lies immediately in front of the oesophagus, and on rare occasions a bougie has been passed through an ulcerating growth into the pericardium, and the sword-swallower has wounded his heart owing to this proximity. The relation of the pleurae to the oesophagus has some practical importance. Below the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra the right pleura passes towards the back of the oesophagus lying between it and the vertical column; on the left side the pleura is in contact with the front of the oesophagus only. This closer re- lationship of the oesophagus and the right pleura is shown by the fact that growths of the oeso- phagus more often invade the right than the left pleura. From a surgical point of view it is important to remember this fact, as, in approach- ing the oesophagus from behind in the thorax, it should never be done on the right side below the eighth dorsal vertebra. Above the eighth dorsal vertebra it is safer to expose the oeso- phagus on the right side, as the aorta is at some distance away to the left. It would be impossible to remove any part of the oesophagus below the diaphragm without removing the vagi. In animals, section of the nerves at this level does not seem to be a serious matter. Examination of the (Esophagus.—In the neck it is sometimes possible to feel a distended diverticulum or a foreign body. Very rarely, indeed, can a growth of the oesophagus be felt in the neck. In the thorax and abdomen pal- pation is, of course, out of the question. Of all the methods for detecting obstruction in the oesophagus the gum-elastic bougie is the most useful. It should be softened just before use by being held for a minute or two in hot water, and then lubricated with a little glycerine. Provided no violence is employed this method is a safe one. It is, however, possible that even with a slight amount of force the oesophagus might be perforated in the region of a very advanced growth, or that an aneurysm of the aorta, which had nearly destroyed the wall of the oesophagus at one point, might be entered by quite gentle pressure. Such cases, however, are extremely rare, and the inevitable fatal termination is only anticipated by a short time. Examination of the oesophagus by a lamp or mirror, or (Esophagoscopy as it is sometimes called, has been found of some use; but it requires considerable experience, and seldom leads to any more definite information than the ordinary methods afford. Auscultation of the oesophagus has been found useful by some practitioners. The patient is told to swallow liquids, and the stethoscope is placed at various points along the vertebral column in order to appreciate any abnormal sounds produced by the presence of a stricture. Radiography has proved of the greatest service in localising the position of foreign bodies in the oesophagus. In examining the oesophagus it is important to bear in mind that there are three spots where the oesophagus is decidedly narrower than the rest of the tube—namely, at the commencement, at a spot adjacent to the bifurcation of the trachea, and its termination. At these points the diameter is about five-eighths of ;in inch, so that no bougie of greater diameter than half an inch should be used. When the oesophagus is exposed at the root of the neck it has a certain amount of mobility in two planes. There is a certain amount of side to side movement and there is a slight mobility in its own axis, so that the lower part of the oeso- phagus can be pulled upwards for about an inch. Wounds and Rupture of the CEsophagus. —Wounds of the oesophagus alone, apart from injuries of neighbouring structures, are very seldom met with in suicidal wounds. In sabre cuts of the neck and in gunshot wounds the injury to the oesophagus is of small moment compared with that of the trachea, great vessels, etc. As a rule, it is only in very extensive wounds indeed that the oesophagus is wounded, and the patient generally dies from hsemorrhage or asphyxia before the wounded oesophagus can give rise to any symptoms. Occasionally the oesophagus has laeen wounded by the introduc- tion of large foreign bodies, such as are used161 (ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF by sword swallowers. If the oesophagus alone is wounded, without any external wound, there may be no symptom until cellulitis appears at the root of the neck or surgical empyema, or some septic complication of the lungs or pleurae. When there is an external wound in the neck the escape of saliva and food establishes the diagnosis. The treatment depends upon whether the wound is complete or incomplete. If incomplete, the oesophagus must be well exposed and, if possible, sutured. An oesophageal catheter is then passed through the mouth and left in position for a week or ten days. The external wound is carefully plugged with gauze, and every care is taken that if leakage occurs the discharges can drain freely away. If complete, every effort should be made to stitch the ends together, or, at any rate, to bring them together as much as possible. A catheter is then left in, and the resulting fibrous stricture must be dealt with later. Rupture of the oesophagus is a rare accident. Spontaneous rupture has occurred in a practi- cally healthy tube, but more frequently the wall of the oesophagus has been weakened by ulceration or malignant growths. Inflammation of the CEsophagus.—Acute inflammation of the oesophagus has been met with as a complication in some of the acute specific fevers, such as typhoid and scarlet fever. It has also been described in cholera. Morrell Mackenzie described an acute idiopathic oesophagitis, but nothing very definite as regards its etiology could be stated. Such cases are very rare. In children there is a form of acute oesophagitis said to be due to bad feeding, and a condition associated with thrush is occasion- ally met with termed aphthous oesophagitis. In diphtheria the inflammation may extend from the pharynx, and the membrane may form in the oesophagus. As a rule, this fact is only ascertained at the post-mortem. Of more common occurrence is acute traumatic oesophagitis. This may be caused by the passage of irregularly shaped foreign bodies, but in these cases it is not, as a rule, at all serious, soon subsiding. Much more important is the acute inflammation following the swallowing of corrosive and caustic liquids such as sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, acetic, and oxalic acids, and caustic potash, soda, and ammonia. The degree of inflammation varies according to the amount and degree of dilution of the fluid. These liquids produce a slough of greater or less extent and of a different colour, according to the liquid swallowed, thus :— Sulphuric acid . . Brown. Nitric acid . . Yellow or orange. Hydrochloric acid . Grey or leaden colour. Oxalic acid . . White or cream colour. Around the tissue that is immediately killed by the acid inflammatory changes soon occur, VOL. VII and on the separation of the sloughs there may be hsemorrhage or perforation. If the patient recovers from these dangers there will always be fibrous stricture. Symptoms. — Intense pain accompanied by symptoms of shock are the two prominent symptoms. If the patient survives the shock, there may be a period of freedom from pain and absence of any definite symptoms. Within twenty-four hours or earlier colicky pains in the abdomen, diarrhoea, with bloody stools, and symptoms pointing generally to implication of the abdominal viscera, appear. So far as the oesophagus is concerned there may be cellulitis spreading in the mediastinum, and fistulas forming in connection with the trachea and bronchi. If the patient escapes all these dangers, there are yet the symptoms associated with fibrous stricture to develop. Treatment.—Immediate neutralisation of the poison by an appropriate draught, and the washing out of the stomach by a syphon, or, if that is not obtainable, by induced vomiting. Abundance of white of egg and water should be given to drink. The patient should be fed solely on milk. If there is dysphagia the patient must be fed per rectum. For the symptoms and treatment of fibrous stricture see p. 164. Foreign Bodies.—A great variety of foreign bodies have been swallowed and detained in the oesophagus. In the case of ordinary adult persons artificial teeth and coins are the most common objects. With children a much greater diversity of bodies are swallowed, and with lunatics a most extraordinary variety of foreign bodies have been found—forks, spoons, pen- knives, etc. Symptoms.—These vary enormously according to the size and shape of the body, and they fall naturally into two groups. The immediate or primary, and the secondary or remote symptoms. Immediate or Primary Symptoms. —When the body is a large one there is a sense of stifling or suffocation, with an extreme anxiety or even a feeling of impending death, which may be due to actual pressure on the respiratory tract, or to some reflex nervous affection; sorne- times to a combination of the two. The voice becomes altered, and the act of swallowing is inhibited, and there is often vomiting and coughing. Pain is generally a marked symp- tom. It is shooting in character, radiating up and down the neck ; it may be in the sternal reo-ion or in the back between the scapulse, the exact distribution of the pain depending upon the part of the oesophagus in which the body lodges. After a few minutes these acute symptoms usually subside, leaving a persistent pain, increased by swallowing or vomiting, and generally some alteration of the voice. There is difficulty in deglutition, and sometimes a swelling can be felt in the neck. The durationOESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 162 and severity of these symptoms naturally depend upon the size and shape of the foreign body, and consequently there is a very wide range in the clinical features of these cases. Remote or Secondary Symptoms.—The most important of these is haemorrhage, as the result of ulceration of the wall of the (Esophagus into the wall of one of the great vessels—the aorta, carotids, pulmonary artery, and vense cavse. This even may occur as early as the seventh or eighth day, or at the end of six months. There may be one huge gush of blood or frequent haemorrhages of varying extent. The ulcera- tion of the oesophagus may involve the trachea, bronchi, or pleurae, leading to various septic troubles—empyema, septic pneumonia, etc. Septic inflammation may spread to all the tissues in the neighbourhood, leading more especially to cellulitis or abscess in the posterior mediastinum. Diagnosis.—Just at first it may be difficult to say whether the body is in the respiratory tract or in the oesophagus. As soon as the acute symptoms subside this matter can be easily settled by a careful examination of the symptoms and by means of a laryngoscope, etc. The exact position of the foreign body is not always easily determined; the oesophageal bougie or probang may fail to localise it. In practically all cases radiography at once solves the question of localisation. Treatment.—There are numerous methods employed which may be classified as follows:— (1) Propulsion.—If the body is a piece of food it may with safety be pushed on into the stomach, also if it is a smooth body that is not likely to cause any trouble in its passage along the alimentary canal. (2) Removal through the Mouth. — Induced vomiting has sometimes been successful, but if the body is large and irregular in shape the proceeding may become dangerous. Numerous instruments have been designed for the purpose of removing foreign bodies from the oesophagus : a flexible bougie with a ring at the end, the ordinary coin catcher, the probang, various forms of forceps, and by special means for particular cases. (3) Operative Procedure. — If all simple methods have failed, it is advisable not to delay if the case is a suitable one for operation. Much mischief may ensue while the body remains in situ, and there is very little chance of the body being expelled spontaneously. The operative procedures are :—Cervical oesophagotomy, thor- acic oesophagotomy, and gastrotomy. (a) Cervical (Eso]jhagotomy.—If the foreign body is impacted in the upper half of the oesophagus this operation is most likely to be successful. When the foreign body is in the cervical portion of the oesophagus there is generally little or no difficulty in removing it. When the body is in the thoracic portion, this operation enables one to use instruments for its extraction to much greater advantage than through the mouth. The operation consists in making a skin incision from 3 to 4 inches long in the middle line between the larynx and the supra-sternal notch. The anterior borde of the left sterno-mastoid muscle is exposed and hooked outwards. The omo-hyoid muscle is divided. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are also divided but carefully preserved, so that they can be sutured together again. The trachea, together with the thyroid gland, is gently pulled towards the right. As a rule, it is not necessary to retract the carotid artery and jugular vein. As soon as the trachea is pulled to the right the oesophagus is readily found at the level of the cricoid cartilage, deviating to the left of the middle line. With care, the tube can be exposed for about two inches. If the foreign body can be felt the tube should be opened at the most convenient spot. If the body is below the level of the wound the oesophagus should be opened as low down as possible, taking care to avoid the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. By means of suit- able forceps it may then be possible to extract the foreign body. Unless the oesophagus is much damaged, the incision into it should be stitched with catgut and the wound carefully drained. (b) Thoracic CEsophagotomy.—If the foreign body is definitely localised in the lower part of the thoracic portion, it has been suggested that the oesophagus should be reached by removing portions of three or four ribs near their angles and taking care to avoid wounding the pleura. Above the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra it would be safer to operate on the right side, so as to avoid the aorta. Below the level of the eighth dorsal the pleura on the right side passes to the back of the oesophagus between it and the vertebral column, so that it would be safer to approach it on the left side. I am not aware that this operation has been successfully performed on the living subject. (c) Gastrotomy.—In cases where the foreign body is implicated near the cardiac orifice, it may be necessary to open the stomach and to endeavour to remove the foreign body by that route. Growths of the (Esophagus. — Simple Tumours.—These are very rarely met with. Whatever their structure may be they have a great tendency to assume a polypoid form, i.e. they have a pedicle of varying length. Most of the recorded cases were fibromata, myomata, rayxomata, and curious growths containing cysts filled with altered blood. They are quite surgi- cal curiosities. Malignant.—These are practically always carcinomata. One or two cases of sarcoma have been described. Carcinoma may occur at any part of the oesophagus, but tends to form at those places where the calibre is the narrowest,163 (ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF namely, at the commencement, about the middle, and at the termination. There is a difference of opinion as to the relative frequency with which these three spots are affected, some considering that the upper end is more commonly affected than the others, and vice versa. All agree that the middle region accounts for 25 per cent of the whole. (Growths of the oesophagus occur more frequently in men than in women. They are nearly always squamous-celled epitheliomata, but glandular carcinoma, probably originating in the oesophageal glands, are sometimes met with. Extension of the growth may take place by direct continuity ; thus the lungs or heart may be invaded, and masses of cancer may form round the oesophagus at any part of its course. Secondary deposits may occur in the liver, kidneys, spleen, intestines, etc. The usual lym- phatic glands to be affected are those in the posterior mediastinum and those in the lower part of the neck, either along the carotid artery or in the posterior ti-iangle just above the clavicle. The growth may disintegrate at cer- tain spots, and finally there may be a perfora- tion into the posterior mediastinum leading to secondary septic processes. Symptoms.—The earliest symptom is some difficulty in swallowing, especially if the food is rather dry. This difficulty soon becomes more marked until only liquids can be passed through. The food remains for a minute or two and is then gulped up. If there is much ulceration, especially when septic inflammation spreads from the growth along the oesophagus, there may be reflex spasmodic contractions of the gullet, which may be set up by the slightest amount of food, solid or liquid. In the intervals of feeding, blood, and mucus, and debris may be brought up. Pain is absent at first even when the dysphagia is quite marked. After a time, however, there is definite pain on swallowing referred to the neck or between the shoulders behind. Some- times the pain is referred to the middle of the sternum or to the lower end of that bone. The distribution of this referred pain depends upon the situation of the growth in the oesophagus. Emaciation is a prominent symptom. It is partly due to the ordinary emaciation and cachexia of all cancerous disease, and partly to the deprivation of food. There are various complications that may arise. As in the case of foreign bodies, so here hsemorrhage may occur from ulceration into the big vessels. There is alteration of voice either by invasion of the larynx or trachea, or by involving the recurrent laryngeal nerves. The pleuree and lungs may be invaded by the growth, and sometimes the pericardium. Diagnosis.—As a rule this is fairly easy. Progressive difficulty in swallowing, together with definite loss of flesh and cachexia, form a fairly characteristic picture. Careful examina- tion of the heart and great vessels should be made in order to exclude the presence of an aneurysm of the aorta. From a fibrous stricture the presence of hard enlarged glands in the supraclavicular fossa and along the carotid artery serves to aid us in the diagnosis. Treatment.—The first question that naturally arises is whether we can hope for a cure of the condition by removal of the growth. This is only possible, of course, when the whole growth and any infected lymphatic glands can be freely removed. This is only feasible in carcinoma of the cervical portion, and then only when the growth is quite limited and free from adhesions to the larynx, trachea, bi'onchi, thyroid gland, etc. A few cases of successful removal have been reported, the longest of which survived thirteen months. In this case it was necessary to pass a bougie at frequent intervals in order to keep the resulting fibrous stricture sufficiently dilated, and all of them had to be fed on liquid food for the remainder of their lives. It is ob- vious that cases suitable for radical operative treatment are very rarely met with. Palliative Treatment.—Short of removal of the growth there are two methods of treatment. (1) To feed the patient by the mouth with the aid of some apparatus. (2) To establish an artificial mouth. (1) Suggestions and attempts at feeding the patient by introducing a tube through the growth and leaving it in situ have been published for many years, but this method of treatment was first thoroughly formulated by Symonds. It may be termed permanent intubation of the oesophagus. The principle is to pass a tube through the obstructions, a tube of sufficient length to project well beyond the lower limit of the growth. It has a funnel-shaped opening at the upper end which rests upon the superior margin of the constriction. Symonds describes the procedure in the following words:— "First ascertain by a large bougie the exact position of the stricture, i.e. the number of inches from the teeth ; then pass the largest conical bougie possible, and judge by this the size of the tube to be used. Fitting now the introducer (made of whalebone and enclosed by a gum-elastic sheath) mark on it the distance on the stricture, or make a knot in the silk (the cords which are attached to the upper dilated part of the tube), and insert with the head thrown back. When it has entered the stricture send the tube down slowly, till arrested by the funnel, and withdraw the introducer. . . . The silk is now tied round the ear and fixed behind by a piece of strapping." In some cases a long tube is better than a short one, e.g. in cases where ulceration has taken place into the pleural cavity, lungs, bronchi, or trachea, and in cases where much destruction of the oesophagus is going on as shown by foetor. In cases where the disease is situated so high up that the funnel-shaped end(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 164 of the short tube would rest against the upper aperture of the larynx, and so interfer ■ with respiration, a long tube brought out of the mouth or through the nostrils is indicated. A long tube may be purchased, made in the same way as an oi'dinary short tube, or, according to Symonds, it may be quickly improvised in the following manner :—Take a piece of red rubber drainage tube with a thin wall and a wide bore and about eighteen inches long. Cut one end obliquely and sew it up, thus obtaining a conical end ; next cut a large eye in the tube about an inch from the extremity, or two openings may be made. Oil the interior of the tube and introducer thoroughly. The experience of surgeons concerning oeso- phageal intubation is rather conflicting. The author is of opinion that it is the best treatment, and should always be tried in cases where the tube can be used of sufficient calibre to avoid repeated blockage of its lumen; in other words, the malignant stricture must not have advanced too far, and the presence of the tube must not induce hsemorrhage and copious mucous dis- charges from the growth. (2) Methods to create an artificial mouth. (Emplmfjostomy has a very limited field. It is only possible in growths high up and very limited in extent, so that a portion of healthy oesophagus can be found at the root of the neck quite free from growth. Such cases are rare. Gastrostomy. — Much discussion has taken place concerning the question of early or late gastrostomy. The author is strongly of opinion that so long as the patient can get enough liquid food into the stomach, no operation should be performed. As an operation of expediency gastrostomy is not to be recommended : it should be reserved as an operation of necessity, i.e. to prevent starvation. Fibrous Stricture of the (EsopJiagus. — The most common caiise is the swallowing of caustic fluids and boiling water. It seems certain that syphilitic ulceration may lead to stricture. In some cases it is impossible to determine the cause. Symptoms.— In most cases there have been acute symptoms due to the agent inflicting the damage, and these have already been dealt with in the section on inflammation of the oesophagus. The chief symptom due to the fibrous stricture alone is progressive difficulty in swallowing; pain is seldom present, and, if complained of, it is usually when attempts are made to swallow solid food. Diwjnosis is made by the history of the case. Its site, or at any rate the position of the first stricture, if there be more than one, is usually ascertained by the bougie. In those rare cases where there is no clue to the causation it may be difficult to diagnose the condition from carcinoma or from muscular spasm. By a care- ful consideration of the symptoms, however, a correct diagnosis can nearly always be made. Prognosis. — Even with constant treatment the outlook is grave. The fatal end arrives sooner or later by suppuration and perforation, even if starvation is prevented. The infection of the constantly irritated tissue with tubercle is not an infrequent complication. Treatment. — Numerous methods have been described, some of which soon fell into well- merited neglect; cauterisation, internal oeso- phagotomy, electrolysis, etc., have practically disappeared as recognised procedures. With all cases one method must be tried, and that is gradual dilatation. Bougies, of which a large variety have been invented, are passed at regular intervals, in- creasing in size on each occasion. If there is some difficulty in introducing the bougie, it may be left in for some minutes or hours and then its reintroduction is quite easy. In some cases Symonds' tube worn for a few days causes a dilatation just as a catheter tied in the urethra. If a bougie cannot be passed from above into the stomach, although the patient can swallow liquids, the operation of gastrostomy is per- formed, and the patient is made to swallow a shot to which silk is attached. This silk is brought out of the gastric opening and bougies are dragged through by this means. If nothing can be got to pass by swallowing, the operation of oesophagotomy may be performed, and some- thing passed along by that route. The opening in the stomach may be closed as soon as the stricture is made permeable to a bougie. It may be possible to do this at the time when the gastrostomy is performed, so that the wound in the stomacli can be sewn up again at the same operation. Forcible and Ra2nd Dilatation. — By some surgeons these terras are looked upon as syn- onymous. Without undue violence, however, it may be possible to rapidly dilate a stricture by passing bougies of increasing size at one sitting. Special instruments have been devised to dilate a stricture forcibly, and even laminaria tents have been employed. These methods are open to several objections, and are not usually practised. If the stricture is near the cardiac end, and no bougie can be passed from above, then the stomach may be opened and the stricture rapidly dilated. Loreta uses an in- strument which sti-etches the stricture to a diameter of two inches. The wound in the stomach is then closed. G^soj^hagotomy.—This operation is performed either with a view of dilating a stricture or of establishing an artificial mouth below the level of the stricture. Gastrostomy.—'\N\\cn every other method has failed, this operation must be performed to prevent the patient starving to death. in some cases, after the stricture has been given(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 165 a rest for a few weeks it may be more easily treated. Spasm of the (Esophagus : CEsophagismus.— These are cases in which symptoms of obstruc- tion occur without any organic change whatever in the tube, and in which the obstruction is due to a spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat at some part of the tube, generally the upper end. It is possible to get spasm of the oeso- phagus in the neighbourhood of an ulcer, etc., but this is quite different from the form here described. (Esophagismus is met with generally in women between the ages of eighteen and thirty years, and seems to occur chiefly in persons of a neurotic temperament. Symptoms.—Very often so-called hysterical symptoms precede an attack. Then quite suddenly there is regurgitation of food, some- times of liquid as well as solid. This spasm is very often associated with vomiting or coiighing. This difficulty may recur several times for several successive days, and sometimes there is an interval of a few days. The symptoms disappear just as suddenly as they appeared. The symptoms may recur after several weeks or months. Pain, as a rule, is absent, although sensations of discomfort are commonly com- plained of in the region of the neck. The recurrent attacks may last for several years. In a woman seen by the author they had occurred at frequent intervals for twelve years. Diagnosis.—As a rule this is quite easy. The sudden onset and the sudden disappearance of symptoms are unlike any organic strictures. The age, sex, and temperament of the patient are points highly suggestive of spasmodic stricture. Exploration with a bougie generally enables us to exclude organic stricture. In another patient of the author's it was, however, necessary to give an anfesthetic before a bougie could be passed, as the spasm was so great that no justifiable force could overcome it. Treatment.—In nearly all cases the passage of an oesophageal bougie on one or a few occasions is sufficient. If there is a distinctly neurotic temperament the general treatment for that condition should be systematically carried out. In a patient with a fixed idea that there is a mechanical obstruction, the passage of bougies gradiially increasing in size will soon dispel it. Paralysis of the (Esophagus is occasionally met with in certain diseases of the central nervous system. In such diseases there is generally a group of symptoms, of which those concerning the oesophagus are only a part, and often quite a subordinate feature in the case. Oesophageal symptoms are usually some diffi- cvdty in swallowing, the presence of hiccough, and an irritating cough. For a full description of this trouble see " Paralysis, Bulbar," etc. Dilatation of the (Esophagus and (Esopha- geal Pouches.—The oesophagus may be uni formly dilated at any part of its course, or it may be dilated at one part of its circumference, so that a pouch or diverticulum is formed. Uniform dilatation of the oesophagus may be congenital or may be due to a fibrous stricture. According to some authors uniform dilatation may be associated with cancer, but this is very seldom met with if at all. It requires a con- siderable time for an obstruction to cause dilatation of the tube above, and in all proba- bility there is not sufficient time in the case of cancer for this dilatation to develop. In cases where there are several fibrous strictures in the oesophagus there may be a series of dilatations, one above each stricture. Stricture of the cardiac orifice is the one which most often leads to dilatation, but even stenosis of the pylorus has been known to produce it. In the case of these fusiform dilatations the muscular and connective tissue coats are generally hyper- trophied, the mucous membrane remaining in- tact. This fusiform dilatation of the oesophagus presents no points of special interest apart from the fibrous stricture with which it is always associated. There are certain congenital cases which are always associated with congenital stenosis of the cardiac end of the tube. Of greater interest are the diverticula or oesophageal pouches. These fall into two groups: those formed by traction from without, and those formed by pressure from within. The diver- ticula formed by traction from without are usually small and generally situated near the bifurcation of the trachea, in the region of the lymphatic glands of the mediastinum. They are caused by the formation of cicatricial tissue following inflammatory lesions of the lymphatic glands and pleura. As a rule they consist solely of mucous membrane, and therefore are very liable to be perforated by a foreign body. Owing to their situation they may lead to very grave complications by becoming adherent to such impoi'tant structures as the aorta, peri- cardium, bronchi, etc., especially by ulceration occurring in these structures. The diverticula formed by pressure from within are much more common and of more practical importance. Their ordinary seat is the junction of the pharynx with the oesophagus, and they are generally supposed to have some relation to the branchial clefts. In all proba- bility these diverticula are very minute at first, and increase in size very gradually, so that it may be many years before they are sufficiently large to cause an}' symptoms. As a rule they have no muscular tissue around them, but simply consist of mucous membrane. Symptoms. — It is only when the pouch acquires a certain size that it can cause any symptoms, and the first one is usually a slight difficulty in swallowing. This difficulty in- creases as the meal progresses, and is due to(ESOPHAGUS, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 166 the pressure of the sac and its contents upon the oesophagus. In addition to the pressure exercised by the pouch upon the oesophagus, the larynx may be compressed as well as the trachea and the recurrent laryngeal nerves, so that there may be interference with respiration and with phonation. When the pouch reaches a certain size it may be felt in the neck, and by pressure it may be possible to empty it so that the contents regurgitate into the cavity of the mouth. There is generally a characteristic foetid odour of the patient's breath, which is due to decomposition taking place in the pouch. On passing an oesophageal bougie it usually enters the pouch, as that seems to be in the direct line of the food. With a few manipula- tions it may be possible to pass the pouch and enter the main passage of the oesophagus. Complications are very frequent, especially by the perforation of the pouch into the tissues of the neck or thorax. Treatment.—The patient should be advised to take small mouthfuls of food, to masticate it well, and to press upon the pouch during the act of swallowing so as to endeavour to prevent the food entering the diverticula. The only satisfactory cure for the trouble is by operation. The pouch should be freely exposed in the neck and removed. The details of the operation wovild depend upon the situation, size, and rela- tions of the pouch. Malformations of.the CEsophagus.—These are very rare and of no great practical import- ance. The oesophagus has been found totally absent in a new-born child, and this deficiency is always accompanied by other gross malforma- tions. The oesophagus may be imperfect, an interval of varying extent existing between the two ends, which are iisually united with a thread of fibi'ous tissue. Very often the lower end communicates with the trachea or bronchi. Congenital stenosis of the oesophagus, either at its conunencement or at the cardiac end, has been described. Certain Rare Affections of the Oesophagus. —Tubercle, syphilis, and actinomycosis are occasionally met with in the oesophagus. They present no special features from such diseases occurring in other parts of the body. A varicose condition of the veins of the oeso- phagus has been described, especially at the upper end of the tube. CEstruS or CEstrum.—The period of sexual desire; the rut in animals (Gr. oTa-Tpo';, the gadfly, frenzy). Menstruation in the human female corresponds not so much to the oestrus in animals as to the period preceding it, the pro-oestrum. See also Ancestrum ; Dicestrum ; Metcestrum ; Menstruation {(Estrus); Pro- cestrum ; ETC. Oeynhausen. See Balneology {Ger- many, Westphalia). OfFcll.—In connection with the slaughtering of animals, those parts which are cut off in dressing the carcase are called offal; the term includes either the entrails only, or the head and tail as well. Offensive.—The term "offensive" is applied in Public Health to those trades which produce a nuisance or prove injurious to the health of the community. Under the Public Health Act of 1875 (England) six trades are regarded as offensive, viz., blood, bone, soap, and tripe boiling, fell-mongering and tallow- melting ; but seven others may be regarded as offensive, viz., blood-drying, gut-scraping, fat- melting or fat-extracting, glue-making, size- making, tanning, and leather-dressing. The P.H.A. of 1897 (Scotland) includes the businesses of blood, bone, soap, and tripe boiling, tallow- melting and manure manufacture, knacker, tanner, gut or tripe cleaner, skinner or hide factor, slaughtering of cattle or horses, and " any other trade which the local authority may declare to be an offensive trade." Special by-laws for the regulation of these trades, and especially for the prevention of effluvia, have been issued by the Local Government Board; the premises where these offensive businesses are carried on are open to the inspection of the medical officer of health or such other official as may be appointed for the purpose. Official and Officinal.—Authorised by the Pharmacopoeia; used of a medical pre- paration kept in stock in apothecaries' shops and made according to a recipe in the Phar- macopoeia. The Latin term officina meant a workshop or laboratory, and, later, its use was extended to the storeroom in a monastery in which provisions and drugs were kept. OgrStOn'S Line. —An imaginary line drawn from the intercondylic notch (fossa in- tercondyloidea) of the femur to the adductor tubercle of the same bone; it is a guide in the operation of section of the internal condyle. Og'ston's Operation.—Resection of the astragalo-scaphoid joint. See Deformities {Fiat-Foot, 'Treatment of the Fourth Degree). Ohinemutu. See Balneology {New Zealand, Lahe Rotorua). Ohm.—The unit of electric resistance; it is so named after Georg Simon Ohm (1787- 1854), a German physicist and the discover of the law in electricity known as Ohm's law ("the strength of the current in a circuit varies directly as the electromotive force and inversely as the resistance (or directly as the conductance) of the circuit"). A microhm is one millionth of an ohm, and a megohm is one million oluns; the international ohm (of 1893) is the resistance of a column of mercury at 0°C.,OHM 167 106-3 centimetres long and 14-4521 grammes mass. Oidiuin. See Micro-Obganisms {Blasto- mycetes, or Hyphomycetes). Oidium Albicans.—The fungus of thrush. See Expectoration (Vegetable Para- sites, Non-jMthogenic); Lungs, Parasitic Af- fections OF {As2:)ergiUosis, etc.); Micro-Organ- ISMS (Blastomycetes) ; Puerperium, Pathology (Nil^ples^ Sore); Stomatitis {Parasitic, Thrush). Oi do mycosis. — Disease due to blasto- mycetes. Oikophobia..—A morbid dread of home (Gr. oTkos, house or home, <^o^os fear). Oil-immersion Lens. See Micro- scope {Objectives). Oils.—In pharmacy, oils are of two kinds, fixed and volatile. The fixed oils are ethereal salts, that is, they are formed from fatty acids (oleic, palmitic, stearic, etc.) and the base C3H5 (glyceryl); they are obtained from vegetable structures (fruits, seeds) or from animal tissues by expression or boiling; they are soluble in ether or chloroform, they cause a greasy mark on paper, and they cannot be distilled without decomposition ; they form soaps (oleates, pal- mitates, stearates of metals) when acted on by caustic potash {sajw mollis), caustic soda {sapo diorus), and oxides of metals; and some of them are called drying oils because they easily become hardened into resins {e.g. linseed oil and cod- liver oil), while others are non-drying {e.g. almond oil, oil of male fern, olive oil, etc.). The volatile oils {essential oils) are mixtures of liquid hydrocarbons (elseoptens) with oxidised hydrocarbons (stearoptens) ; they are usually prepared (from herbs, seeds, etc.) by distilla- tion, a current of steam being passed through the materials ; they are soluble in ether and chloroform, but they cause no greasy mark on paper ; they are usually inflammable, and there are many of them in the Pharmacopoeia {e.g. oleum anethi, oleum anisi, oleum anthemidis, oleum limonis, oleum cajuputi, etc.). See also Pharmacology and under the various drugs, e.g. Anisi Fructus, Anthemidis Flores, Caryo- PHYLLUM, Castor Oil, Croton Oil, CuBEByE Fructus, etc. Oinomania.—A morbid_^ craving for alcohol, especially when there are intervals of freedom from the craving. See Alcoholic In- sanity, Dipsomania, etc. Oi ntmentS. — Pharmaceutical prepara- tions consisting of a fatty substance (lard, wax, paraffin, olive oil, etc.) mixed with a drug ; they are either rubbed into the skin or simply applied to it. There are many officinal un- guenta, including the unguentum zinci, the unguentum hydrargyri, the wnguentvmi plvmhi acetatis. See Mercury^, etc. OjoCaliente. /S'ee Balneology {America, California). Okme. See Balneology {Africa, Nubia). Okoi.—An antiseptic or disinfectant sub- stance containing cresol. Old Ag'e. See Senile Insanity {Normal Old Age); Invalid - Feeding {Food for the Aged). Old Maid's Insanity.—Ovarian in- sanity. Olea. See Oils. Oleate.—A salt of oleic acid, or, more often, a pharmaceutical preparation composed of alkaloids or metallic oxides or salts dissolved in oleic acid. Olecranon.—The projection of the elbow caused by the process {olecranon 2)rocess) at the upper end of the ulna; literally, it means the head or point of the elbow (Gr. (hXevrj, elbow, KpavLov, head). See Elbow-Joint, Injuries and Diseases of {Fracture of the Olecranon Process). Olefiant Gas. — Heavy carburetted hydrogen or ethylene (CgH^); with chlorine it forms an oily liquid, known as "Dutch oil." Olefine.—A series of hydrocarbons (in- cluding olefiant gas, q.v.) having the general formula C„ Hgn; in them, in contrast to the paraffins, the carbon atoms are not fully satis- fied, and they are therefore "unsaturated" compounds ; on this account they combine with chlorine, bromine, etc. to form dichlorides and dibromides, etc. Well-known olefines are ethy- lene (C.^H^), propylene (CgHg), butylene (C^Hg), amylene (CjHjq), etc. Oleic Acid.—Oleic acid {acidum oleicum) is one of the fatty acids (CisH3^02); it is, when pure, an oily, colourless, tasteless, and odourless liquid; it enters into the composition of fats and soaps, and, in the Pharmacopoeia, it is found in several unguenta {e.g. the Unguentum Veratrince), and plays the important part of forming oleates {q-v.). Oiein.—A natural fat, forming a colourless, oily liquid, and known in chemistry as trioleate of glyceryl, with the formula C3Hg(C^8H33 02)3 or CjyHjo^O,;. See Physiology, Tissues {Fats). Oleomargrarine or Oleo.—A sub- stance obtained from beef fat by pressure and solidification ; with the addition of butter, milk, or butyrin it forms a substitute for butter ; it used to be sold as butterine but is now called margarine, or, in the United States of America, oleo. See Margarine.168 OLEO-RESINS Oleo-ResinS.—Mixtures of oils (fixed or volatile) and resins; or, more strictly, solutions of resins in volatile oils {e.g. copaiba, q.v.). Balsams are mixtures of oleo-resins with benzoic or cinnamic acid (e.g. balsam of Peru). Oleum.—An oil. See Oils; also under the various drugs, e.g. castor oil, croton oil, olive oil, etc. Olfactory. — Relating to the sense of smell or to the organs concerned therewith, e.g. the olfactory nerve, the olfactory bulb, and the olfactory lobe. See Brain, Physiology of {Senso7-y Centres, Smell); Brain, Physiology of {Cranial Nerves, Olfactory Bulb and Lobe); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Affections of Olfactory Nerves, Anosmia); Nose, Examina- tion OF {Senses of Smell) ; Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Sense of Smell); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Affections of Cranial Nerves). Olibcinuin. — A gum resin, known as Arabian Frankincense or Thus masculum, ob- tained from various species of Boswellia, and used sometimes as a substitute for the balsams of Peru or tolu ; it is a stimulant to mucous membranes, and is used in bronchitis and laryn- gitis (by fumigation). Olig'Semia,.—A reduction in the A^olume of the blood (Gr. oAtyos, scanty, al^a, blood). Olig^O-. — In compound words oligo- (Gr. oAtyos, few) as a prefix means scanty, deficient, or few; e.g. oligochylia (deficiency of chyle), oligocholia (deficiency of bile), etc. Olig^O-Amnios.—A deficient quantity of liquor amnii in the pregnant uterus. See Oligohydramnios. Olig^OChromemia. — Diminution in the amount of hjjemoglobin in the blood, a morbid state usually, but not always, associated with a fall in the number of red blood corpuscles ; the term oligochrosis has been given to deficiency of hemoglobin in the red corpuscles. Olig^ocythaemia or Oligrocy- tOSiS.—Diminution in the number of red blood corpuscles in the blood. See Blood {Corpus- cular Elements, Number) ; Anaemia {Condition of the Blood); Anemia, Pernicious {Corpuscular Elements). Olig'Og'ala.Ctia. — A deficiency in the milk secretion in the puerperium and during lactation. See Puerperium, Pathology {Con- ditions interfering with Suckling). OligOgflobulia. See Oligocyth/Emia. Oligohydramnios.—Deficiency in the amount of liquor amnii in the pregnant uterus. See Labour, Prolonged, Faults in the Passenger {Liquor Amnii); Pregnancy, Pathology of. Ovum and Decidua {Affections of the Amnion). OligOlecithal.—Ova whose cytoplasm (formative yolk) contains scattered granules of deutoplasm (nutritive yolk) are termed oligo- lecithal (Gr. AeKt^os pulse-porridge). OI i go mania. —Monomania. Oligomenorrhcea.—Diminished men- strual flow without complete suspension of the function. Oligophosphaturia.—A diminution in the amount of phosphates in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). OligOSidersemia. — A diminution in the amount of iron in the blood. Oligospermia.—A deficiency in the seminal secretion. Oliguria.—A diminution in the amount of urine excreted. See Hysteria {Disorders of Urinary Systeni). Olivary.—Resembling an olive in shape and size, e.g. the olivary body or olive of the medulla oblongata. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Medulla Oblongata, Structure). Olive Oil.—Oleum olivse is the oil of the fruit of the olive {Olea europcea); it consists chiefly of the oleate of glyceryl {oleine), and of palmitine; it is a pale yellow fluid ; it is used in the making of glycerine and soap, and is contained in certain oflicial plasters, ointments, and liniments; and the dose for internal use is ^ to 1 fl. oz. Externally it is employed in massage, and internally it acts as a mild laxative or may be used as an enema, and has been given in cases of gall-stones. Equal parts of olive oil and lime water form linimentum calcis, much used as a soothing application in burns and scalds. Olive oil is also of use in cases of corrosive poisoning. Oliver Bark.—Black sassafras or Oliveri Cortex is the bark of the Cinnamomum Oliveri, and is oflicial in the Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopeia of 1898; there is a Tinctura Oliveri Corticis (dose, | to 1 fl. dr.), and the drug is used for the same purposes as cinnamon {q.v.). Oliver's Arteriometer. See Pulse {Meai^vrement of Arterial Pressure). Oi i ver's Haemocy to meter. — An instrument for making a rapid and a rough estimate of the number of red blood corpuscles ; it depends upon the detection of the transverse line caused by a candle - flame when viewed169 OLIVER'S H^MOCYTOMETEE through a tube containing a mixture of blood and Hayem's solution. See Blood (^Enumeration of Corpuscles). Oliver's Hsemodynamometer. See Pulse {Measurement of Arterial Pressure). Oliver's Hsemog'lobinometer.— An instrument for estimating the percentage of hsemoglobin in the blood. See H^moglobin- OMETER; Blood (Estimation of Hoemoglohin, Oliver's Instr^mient). Oliver's Symptom.—Pulsation of the larynx, detected by grasping it with the fingers ; it is present in aneurysm of the arch of the aorta and in some cases of mediastinal tumour. Oliver's Test.—A method of detecting albumin in the urine by adding solutions of citric acid and sodium tungstate, a white ring being formed where the solutions come in contact with the urine if albumin be present. Ollier'S La.W.—The statement that when one of two bones which are parallel to each other and united at their ends by ligaments has its growth arrested, the other one has its development interfered with. Omagra.—Gout in the shoulder (Gr. Jj/xos, shoulder). Omasum. See Manyplies. Omelet. See Invalid-Feeding {Cooltery in Diabetes, Savoury Omelet). Omentopexy. — The fixation of the omentum to the abdominal wall, as carried out in hepatic cirrhosis in order to establish a collateral circulation between the portal and systemic vessels. Omentum.—A fold of peritoneum passing from the stomach to other abdominal organs, e.g. the transverse colon (great omentum), the liver (lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum), etc. See Abdomen, Injuries of {Lesions of Omentum); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Omentum); Ascites {Causation, Carcinoma of Gastro-hepatic Omentum); Hernia {Contents, Omentum); Ovaries, Diseases of {Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumours, Hydatids of Omentum). Omo-.—In compound words omo- (Gr. S^nos, the shoulder) means relating to the shoulder; e.g. the omohyoid muscle, one attached to the scapula (or shoulder bone) and to the hyoid bone. Omodynia. — Pain in the shoulder, especially of the nature of muscular rheumatism; scapulodynia. Omophag^ia. — The practice of eating raw food (Gr. ci/xds, raw or vmdressed). Omphalitis.—Inflammation of the imi- bilicus (Gr. o/x<^aA.os, the navel). See New-born Infant {Umbilical Infections); Umbilicus, Dis- eases OF {Sepsis and Infective Processes). O m p halo-.—In compound words omphalo- (Gr. o/x<^aAos, the navel) means relating to the navel or umbilicus, e.g. omphaloncus or a tumour at the navel. Omphalo-Angiopagrous. — The English form of the name proposed by Taruffi for placental parasites or twins united together by the vessels of the cord and placenta; allan- toido-angiopagous twins {Ballantyne). See Tera- tology {Types of Terata, Polysom/itous). Omphalocele. — Hernia at the \\m- bilicus. OmphalOCephaly.—A remarkable teratological type met with in the artificially hatched chick, in which there is absence of the anterior part of the intestine or pharynx and the head seems to protrude from the umbilicvis, the heart (single or double) lying on the nape of the neck or the dorsal region. Omphalomesenteric or Om- phalomesaraiC. — Relating to the um- bilicus and the mesentery, e.g. the omphalo- mesenteric duct, arteries, and veins. See Em- bryology (Third Week); Heart, Physiology of {Embryology); Umbilicus, Diseases of {Per- sistent Omphalomesenteric Duct, Adenomata). Omphalopag^US. —A form of double monster in which the two foetuses are united at the umbilicus. Omphalophlebitis. —inflamma- tion of the Timbilical vein. Omphalorrh ag I a. — Htemorrhage from the umbilicus, especially that grave variety which may occur witli the fall of the cord on the fifth or sixth day after birth. See New- born Infant {Umbilical Hcemorrliage). Omphalosite.—A placental parasite, often acardiac. Omphalotripsy. — The treatment of the umbilical cord by compression with strong forceps; the cord may be ligatured as well as compressed. See New-born Infant {Manage- ment, Treatment of Umbilical Cord). Onanism. — Incomplete sexual coitus. See Hypnotism {Uses). Oncology.—The science of tumours and neoplastic formations (Gr. oyxos, a mass). Oncometer. — A closed capsule con- nected with a recording apparatus, for measur- ing variations in the volume of an organ, e.g. spleen or kidney. See Physiology, Excretion {Physiology of Renal Secretion).ONEIDA COMMUNITY 170 Oneida Community.—A colony in the United States in which promiscuity and coitus reservatus seem to have been practised. Oneiro-.—In compound words oneiro- (Gr. ovetpo^, a dream) means relating or belonging to a dream; e.g. oneirodi/nia (a painful dream), oneironosus (morbid dreaming), etc. On ions. See Invalid-Feeding (Vegetables, Onions). Onomatomania.—A morbid fear of words or of one particular word, or a morbid impulse to repeat a certain word or a painful effort to recollect a word. Ontario. See Balneology {America and Canada). Ontogeny or Ontog^enesis.—The development of the organism in contrast to the evolution of the race {Phylogeny). O n y C il at rO p h y. — Atrophy of the nails, in contrast to onychauxis or their hyper- trophy. See Nails, Affections of {Atrojyhy, Hypertrophy). Onychia or OnyctlitiS. — Inflam- mation and ulceration of the matrix of the nail. See Nails, Affections of {Onychia Maligna, Syphilis, etc.); Syphilis {Affections of Hair and Nails, Onychia and Paronychia). Onycho-.—In compound words onycho- (Gr. ow^, a nail) means relating to the nails; e.g. onychoclasis (fracture of the nail), onycho- cryptosis (ingrowing of the nail), onychoptosis (shedding of the nails), etc. OnycilOg^raph.—A digital sphygmo- graph for recording the pulsations of the vessels of the nail-bed, e.g. Waller's. See Pulse {Digi- tal Sphygniographs). Onychogrryposis or Onycho- g'ryphOSiS.—Claw-like deformity of the nails, with thickening and ridging. See Nails, Affections of {Hypertrophy). Onychomycosis.—Disease of the nail due to fungi, e.g. favus. See Nails, Affections OF {Parasitic Diseases). Onychophag^y. — Nail-biting. See Nails, Affections of {Injuries). Onychorrhexis.—Splitting of the nails. See Nails, Affections of {Atrop^hy). Onyg^ena Equina. See Skin, Para- sites {Introductioti). Onyx.—A form of hypopyon or collection of pus between the layers of the cornea; literally, a nail or nail-like growth. Oo-.—In compound words oo- (Gr. laov, an egg) means relating to the ovum or an egg, e.g. oocyte (the ovum before maturation). Ooblast.—A cell of the germinal epithe- lium, from which an ovum arises. OOCephaiUS.—A teratological type in which the head is egg-shaped; it has characters in common with both cyclopia and cebocephalus. Oog^Onia.—The direct descendants of the primitive germ cell, from which arise the oocytes (ova before maturation). Oolemma.—The zona pellucida of the ovum. Oophorectomy.—Removal of the ovaries, especially when these organs are not the subjects of gross lesions, with the purpose of causing a cessation of menstruation ; Battey's operation. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Treatment of Inoperable Cases of Cancer); Menstruation and its Disorders {Amenorrhoea); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment of {Organo- therapy). Oophorin.—A preparation obtained from the ovaries of animals {e.g. the cow). See OVARIN and OVARIIN. Oophoritis. — Inflammation of the ovaries. iiee Ovaries, Diseases of {Inflam- mation). OophorO-.—In compound words oophoro- {oophoron, the parenchymatous part of the ovary) means relating to the ovary, e.g. oopho- rectomy {q.v.). Oophorocele.—Hernia of the ovary. Oo p h oro h yste recto m y.—Removal of the uterus and ovaries. OophOroman ia.—Ovarian insanity. Oophoron. — The ovary, especially the cortex or parenchymatous portion in contrast to the medulla or paroophoron. Oo p h OrOSal p i n g^i t is.—Inflammation of the ovaries and the Fallopian tubes. Oophorrhaphy.—Fixation of the ovai-y to the pelvic wall. Oosperm.—The fertilised ovum, or the ovum after it has got rid of the polar bodies and fused with the spermatozoon. Open-Air Treatment. See Lung, Tuberculosis of {Treatment, Prophylactic). Open-Door System. — The asylum treatment of insanity with unlocked doors. Open Spaces Act.—in 1887 an Act was passed, named the 02)en Spaces Act, which gave to sanitary authorities the power " to acOPEN SPACES ACT 171 quire, maintain, and regulate open spaces for public use, and to thus utilise disused burial grounds." Opera.tions. See Abdomen, Injuries OF {Treatment); Abdominal Abscess {Treatment); Abortion {Treatment); Amputations ; Anaes- thesia ; Aneurysm {Treatment); Ankle-Joint, Eegion of, Injuries and Diseases {Oj^erations); Appendix, Diseases op {Appendicitis, Treatment); Arteries, Ligature of ; Artificial Limbs ; Ascites {Treatment); Aseptic Treatment of Wounds ; Antiseptic Surgery and Antiseptics ; Aspirator, Uses of ; Axilla {Diseases and In- jm-ies, Treatment); Bladder, Injuries and Dis- eases of {Treatment); Bone, Diseases of {Treat- ment) ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of {Operations); Brain, Tumours of {Treatment); Brain, Surgery of ; Burs^, Injuries and Diseases of {Treatment of Bursitis); Capil- laries, Diseases of {Treatment of Angio7na); Cataract {Treatment); Catheters {Use); Chest, Injuries of {Treatment); Chest-Wall, Affec- tions OF {Treatment); Circumcision; Colotomy; Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Inflammatory Affec- tions, etc.. Treatment); Cornea {Diseases, Treat- ment) ; Curettage ; Cystoscope ; Deformities {Operative Treatment of Arthrodesis, etc.); Dia- phragm, Surgical Affections of ; Diphtheria {Intuhation and Tracheotomy); Ear, External, Diseases of {Treatment); Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane {Opierations); Ear, Acute Inflammation of Middle {Treatment); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Treatment); Eclampsia {Treatment); Ectopic Gestation {Treatment); Elbow - Joint, Injuries and Diseases of {Operations); Electrolysis ; Epis- TAXis {Treatment); Eyeball, Injuries of {Treat- ment) ; Eyelids, Affections of {Treatment); Fallopian Tubes {Treatment of Salpingitis, etc.); Fascia {Treatment of Contractions, etc.) ; Fractures ; Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts, Diseases of {Treatment, Operative); Ganglion {Treatment, Operative); Gangrene {Treatment); Glaucoma {Treatment); Heart, Surgery of ; Hernia {Treatment); Hip-Joint, Injuries and Diseases of {Treatment); Hydatid Disease {Treatment); Hydrocephalus {Siirgical Treat- ment) ; Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of ; Intes- tines, Surgical Affections of ; Intubation ; Iris and Ciliary Body {Operations on the Iris); Joints, Diseases of {Treatment); Kidney, Sur- gical Affections of {Operative Procedures); Knee-Joint, Diseases of {Treatment); Knee- Joint, Injuries of ; Labour, Obstetric Opera- tions {Forceps, Emhryulcia, Symj>hysiotomy, etc.); Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of {Treat- ment) ; Larynx, Benign Growths {Treatment); Larynx, Malignant Disease {Treatment); Larynx, Affections of the Cartilages {Treat- ment); Liver, Diseases of {Tropical Abscess, Treatment); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Surgical Treatment of Vomicce); Lungs, Gangrene of {Treatment); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Cysts, Neoplasms, etc.); Meningitis, Tuber- culous {Opjerative Measures); Menstruation AND ITS Disorders {Retention of Menses); Mouth, Diseases of the {Treatment); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaws {Fractures, etc.); Neck, Region of {Injuries, etc.;; Nerves, Peripheral, Diseases of {Neuralgia, Surgical Treatment); Nose, Local Anaesthetics ; Nose, Diseases of Orifices and Septum {Treatment) ; Nose, Chronic Inflammation {Treatment); Nose, Chronic Infective Disease {Treatment); Nose, Postnasal Adenoid Growths {Treat- ment) ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses {Treatment); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis, Ojjerative Treatment); Oesophagus, Injuries AND Diseases of {Tumours, Operative Treat- ment) ; Orbit, Diseases of the {Inflammatory Affections, Tumoms, etc.); Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumottrs, etc.); Palate {Cleft Palate, Opiera- tion); Palate, Congenital Malformations of the Mouth {Hare-Lip, Operations); Pancreas, Diseases op {Treatment); Parotid Gland, Dis- orders of {Treatment of Tumours, etc.); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Prolapmis Uteri, Operative Treatment) ; Pelvis, Diseases of Cellular Tissue {Operative Treatment) ; Penis, Surgical Affections of ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Treatment); Peritonitis, Tuber- culous {Operative Treatment) ; Peritoneum, Tumours of {Treatment) ; Pharynx, Retro- pharyngeal Abscess {Treatment); Pleura, Diseases of {Treatment); Pleura, Surgical Affections of {Aspiration, Thoracoplasty, etc.); Pregnancy, Pathology' of {Hcemorrhage, Treat- ment) ; Prostate Gland, Diseases of {Treat- ment) ; Rectum, Diseases of {Haemorrhoids, Malignant Disease, Operations) ; Rickets {Treat- ment, Siirgical) ; Rodent Ulcer {Treatment); Salivary Gland, Disorders of {Inflammations and Tumours); Sclerotic, Diseases of {Treat- ment) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Operative Treatment); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Opjerations) ; Spina Bifida {Treat- ment) ; Spine, Surgical Affections of {InjuHes, Caries) ; Spine, Lumbar Puncture ; Spleen, Surgery of ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Surgery); Stomach, Surgical Affections OF; Strabismus {Operative Treatment); Sup- puration {Operative Treatment); Sympathetic Ophthalmitis {Treatment) ; Teeth (Tooth Eo- traction, etc.); Thyroid Gland, Surgery of ; Tongue {Injuries and Diseases, Treatment) ; Tonsils, Diseases of {Treatment); Trachea, Affections OF (?Ve(x?/He?i?, Tracheotomy); Trans- fusion ; Umbilicus, Diseases of {Treatment); Urachus, Diseases of {Treatment); Urethra, Diseases of (Treatment); Uterus, Malforma- tions, Displacements, Inflammations, Tumours, etc. {Operative Treatment); Uvula, Diseases of {Treatment) ; Vaccination ; Vagina, Disorders OF {Tumours, Fistulas, etc.) ; Veins, Diseases of (Varicose Veins, Treatment); Vesicul.:E Semi-OPERATIONS 172 NALES {Operative Procedures); Vulva, Diseases OF THE [Injuries, etc., Treatment); Wounds (Treatment); Wrist-Joint, Injuries op {Treat- ment) ; Wry-Neck {Treatment). Operculum. — Literally, operculum means a cover or lid, and the name opercula insulw is given to the parts of the cerebrum which overlap and hide from view the island of Reil ; the ileo-caecal valve is sometimes called the operculum ilei, and the branchial clefts in the embryo have opercula. Ophiophag^US. See Snake-Bites {Elapidoe). Ophfyon.—In craniolog-y, the ophryon is the central point of the narrowest transverse diameter of the forehead at the level of the upper margins of the orbits; it is used in crani- ometry (Gr. Scjipvs, an eyebrow). OphryOSiS.—Spasm of the eyebrow (Gr. 6<f>pvs, an eyebrow). Ophthalmia. See Blind, Training and Education op {Ophthalmia ]Veonat07-um); Brain, Cerebellum, Appections op {Tumours, Nettro- paralytic Ophthalmia) ; Conjunctiva, Diseases op {Inflammatory); Fipth Nerve, Affections OF {Neuro-paralytic Ophthalmia); Joints, Dis- eases op {Bacterial Diseases in Gonorrhoeal Ophthahnia) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Paralysis, Etiology); Sympathetic Ophthal- mitis. Ophthalmitis. See Ophthalmia and cross-references. Ophthalmo-.—in compound words opA- thalmo- (Gr. 6<f>6akfji6';, the eye) means relating to the eye; e.g. ojihthalmomalacia (subnormal tension of the eye), ophthalmorrhagia (haemor- rhage from the eye), ophthalmospasm (ocular spasm), etc. Ophthaimocephalus. — A terato- logical type met with in veterinary pathology which resembles cyclopia, but differs from it in the absence of the median orbit and of the olfactory apparatus. OphthalmodonesiS.—Tremblings or oscillatory movements of the eye. Ophthalmodynia.—Pain in the eye, usually neuralgic in type. Ophthalmology.—The study of the pliysiology and pathology of the eye. Ophthalmometer.—An instrument for determining errors of refraction in sight. Ophthalmoplasty.—The plastic surgery of the eye. Ophthalmoplegria. Externa 172 Interim . . . . . . .172 Treatment 173 Diagnosis . . . . . .173 See also Brain, Inflammations {Clinical Features of Acute Encephalitis); Brain, Cere- bellum, Affections of {Tumours, Symptoms); Myasthenia Gravis {Symptomatology); Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Paralysis, Nuclear Lesions); Spasm (Farteizes); ^Yvmus {Tertiary, Eye Sy7)i2ytoms); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomato- logy) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symptoms). Ophthalmoplegia.—The term, as generally used, means a paralysis of the ocular muscles due to a lesion situated in their nuclei of origin. It is usual to apply the term "ophthalmoplegia ex- terna " to a paralysis involving the external ocular muscles, among whicli the levator pal- pebral superioris is included, while the term " ophthalmoplegia interna " is employed when the paralysis affects the iris or the ciliary muscle. The terms "complete" and "incom- plete " are also frequently used in describing ophthalmoplegia to specify whether all or only some of the muscles are affected. Cases where ophthalmoplegia externa and interna are present together are often described as " mixed." According as one or both eyes are affected, we may speak of a monocular or a double ophthal- moplegia. The above may all be combined in various ways. Usually both eyes are more or less affected. In complete cases, ophthalmo- plegia totalis, movement is totally lost, giving the eyes a strange fixed appearance. The levator palpebrae escapes more frequeutly than the other muscles, and even when present the ptosis is often incomplete. Weakening of the orbicularis palpebrarum, so that firm closure of the eyelids is impossible, is occasionally seen, and it has been supposed that the facial muscles near the eye have a connection with the nucleus of the third nerve. Certain forms of nuclear ocular palsy are congenital. Congenital ptosis, which is usually associated with weakness of the superior rectus, is of nuclear origin, but is not commonly in- cluded under the term ophthalmoplegia. In infantile cases the course of the disease is slow, but usually progressive, although seldom attended by bulbar symptoms. Ptosis is much more frequent in these cases than in the oph- thalmoplegia of adult life. Occasionally the facial nucleus is involved in the degenerative process. Much more commonly the disease appears in adult life, involving at first usuallj' one or two muscles only, and very often those taking part in associated movements. Many cases remain stationary, i.e. after a certain number of173 OPHTHALMOPLEGIA muscles have become involved the disease ceases to spread, some of the muscles remaining unaffected, and there being also no extension to the bulbar nuclei. Sometimes the disease is progressive, spreading slowly to involve the different nuclei of origin of the imiscles or ex- tending to the nuclei of other cranial nerves. Ptosis is not very common in chronic oph- thalmoplegia, and the internal muscles fre- quently escape (Swanzy). The ocular symptoms are the same as those met with in other forms of ocular palsy. The general health is little affected unless other nuclei are involved. Some mental impairment is not infrequent. In addition to its occvirrence as an entity, or in association with bulbar paralysis, chronic ophthalmoplegia is a very characteristic associate of several forms of nervous disease. In tabes dorsalis diplopia from ocular palsy is a very frequent and often a very early symp- tom. The transient form Swanzy thinks due probably to vascular changes in the nuclei of origin, while the persistent paralysis of one or two muscles he thinks has more likely a peripheral origin. When a large number of muscles in both eyes are involved, or when associated muscles are singled out, a nuclear lesion is probably the cause. In general para- lysis and in disseminated sclerosis ophthalmo- plegia is occasionally observed, so too in exoph- thalmic goitre and some severe cases of multiple neuritis. The paralysis of accommodation following diphtheria is probably due rather to a peripheral than a nuclear lesion. Ophthalmo- plegia interna is the term used by Hutchinson to indicate paralj^sis of the internal muscles of the eye characterised by dilatation of the pupil and loss of power of accommodation. The pupil and the ciliary muscles may, however, be affected singly—partial ophthalmoplegia interna. Acute ophthalmoplegia is very much less common and less important than the preced- ing. Only a small number of cases have been described, and nearly all of these have been associated with chronic alcoholism. The disease is usually sudden in origin, with severe symp- toms of cerebral disturbance, e.g. delirium, vomiting, somnolence. In some cases optic neuritis appears in the course of the disease. Death generally results within a fortnight from 'nvolvement of the bulbar nuclei. Small hsem- orrhages in the nuclei have been found on post-mortem examination, probably associated with vascular disease. In some cases no gross changes have been observed in the nuclei, and the ophthalmoplegia observed may, in such cases, have been due to a toxsemic poisoning of the nerve centres. Subacute cases of nuclear palsy, with less violent symptoms and uncompli- cated with bulbar lesions, have been recorded. Etiology of Ophthalmoplegia.—Syphilis and alcoholism are undoubtedly the most important factors in the causation of this disease. As Gowers points out, the relation to syphilis in these degenerative diseases is more often under than over rated. Among other causes have been quoted exposure to cold and poisoning by various agents, as lead, nicotine, CO2, HqSO^, and the toxines of putrefying meat. Occasionally it has followed such diseases as influenza. In some cases no definite etiological factor can be traced. Pathology.—Gowers and others have demon- strated the degenerative processes in the nuclei, which consist chiefly in atrophy and disappear- ance of the nerve-cells, but the degenerative process doubtless affects the whole motor neuron. Treatment.—The treatment is to be directed to the primary cause if such can be traced. The ocular palsies associated with tabes are very little affected by treatment, but sometimes pass off spontaneously. The cases associated with bulbar symptoms are usually unaffected by treatment. Cases where the disease is con- fined to the ocular nuclei, and where a distinct syphilitic origin can be traced, are often greatly benefited by vigorous treatment with mercury and iodide of potassium. As tonic and nerve stimulants, arsenic and strychnine, the latter hypodermically, have found most favour. Electrical treatment is not now considered to be of much value, though formerly much employed. If the diplopia is very troublesome it may be necessary to give the patient an opaque glass before one eye. The prisms required to enable the patient to fuse the double images are usually much too strong to be worn as spectacles. Operative treatment is occasionally indicated, especially in slight cases of long standing. Diagnosis. — The chief points indicating a nuclear origin for an ocular palsy are bilateral occurrence, symmetrical affection of the muscles, rarity of the ptosis, the paralysis of the external muscles without involvement of the internal, and vice versa. In complete paralysis of all the ocular muscles the lesion may be nuclear, or may be due to injury of the nerves at the base of the brain on their way to the orbits. OphthalmoptOSiS. — Protrusion of the eyeball, or exophthalmos. Ophthalmo-Reaction.—The name given to a test for tuberculosis recently intro- duced by Calmette. If a single drop of a "5-1 per cent solution of dry tuberculin in distilled water be instilled into one eye of a person suffering from tuberculosis, a reaction, beginning with injection and swelling of the caruncle and going on to a mild attack of conjunctivitis, occurs in from five to ten hours after instillation. Sufficient time has not yet elapsed (1907) to determine whether the test is pathognomonic, but the reports published up to the present tend to confirm the value of a positive reaction in174 OPHTHALMO-REACTION proving, and a negative reaction in excluding, the presence of tuberculosis. Ophthalmoscope. See Eye, Clini- cal Examination of ; Refraction ; Retina and Optic Xerve {Retina, Ophthalmoscopic Appear- ances) ; Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechan- ism {Eye, Anatomy, Examination of). Ophthalmoscopy.—The examination of the interior of the eye by means of the ophthalmoscope. See Retina and Optic Nerve (Retina, Ophtlialmoscopic Appearances). Ophthalmotrope. — An instrument for showing the direction and position of the eye under the action of each of its muscles. OpianiC Acid.—An acid obtained (along with cotarnine) from the oxidation of narcotine. See Opium. OpiO-. — In compound words opio- (Gr. oVds, juice) means relating to opium (the juice of the poppy); e.g. opiomania (morphinomania, ij.v.), opiophagism (opium-eating), opiophilous (loving opium), etc. Opisthion.—The middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum ; a term used in craniology. OpisthorchiS. See Parasites {Hel- minths, Trema todes). Opisthotonos. — An arched condition of the body due to bending back of the head and lower limbs, observed in tetanus, epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis, etc. See Hysteria {Hysterical Convulsions) ; Meningitis, Posterior Basic {Symptoms); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebrospinal {Symp)toms) ; Spasm ; Tetanus {Clinical Features); Tetany {Motor Symptoms); Toxicology {Alkaloids, Strychnine). Opium. See also Alcoholism {Diagnosis) ; Analgesics and Anodynes ; Aphrodisiacs ; Appetite {Disordered) ; Asphyxia {Causes); Brain, Surgery of {Comj^ression, Diagnosis); Morphinomania ; Peritonitis, Acute ; Phar- macology : Temperature {Depression); Toxi- cology {Alkaloids, Opium).—The milky exuda- tion obtained by incision of the unripe capsules of the white poppy, or Papaver somniferum, a plant native to Asia but also grown in other countries. The juice thus obtained is inspis- sated by evaporation, and, when dried and powdered, should contain from 9■■5 to 10'5 per cent of morphine. The chemical composition of this drug is very complex, the alkaloids which have been obtained from it numbering at least eighteen. Most of them are in com- bination with meconic acid or sulphuric acid, but some are free. The most important are morphine, codeine, nai-cotine, thebaine, narceine, papaverine, pseudomorphine, and laudanine. j The dose of powdered opium is ^-2 grs. The pireparations are as follows: — 1. Tinctura Opii, known as laudanum. Standardised to contain '75 per cent of anhydrous morphine. Strength of opium, 1 in 13^. Dose—20-30 m. for a single administration; 5-15 m. if repeated. 2. Tinctura Opii Ammomata. " Scotch paregoric." Contains ammonia, benzoic acid, and oil of anise. Strength, 1 in 88. Dose—\ -1 5- 3. Tinctura Camphorse Composita. Paregoric. Contains benzoic acid, camphor, and oil of anise. Strength, 1 in 219. Dose—1-1 3. 4. Extractum Opii Liquidum. Strength, 1 in 14. Dose— 5-30 m. 5. Extractum Opii. Standardised to contain 20 per cent of morphine. Strength, 1 in \. Dose — \ -\ gr. 6. Pulvis Cretse Aromaticus cum Opio. Strength, 1 in 40. Dose—10 - 40 grs. 7. Pulvis Ipecacuanhee Compositus. Dover's powder. Strength, 1 in 10. Dose — 5-15 grs. 8. Pulvis Opii Com- positus. Strength, 1 in 10. Dose—2-10 grs. 9. Pulvis Kino Compositus. Strength, 1 in 20. Dose—5-20 grs. 10. Pilula Saponis Composita. Strength, 1 in 5. Dose—2-4 grs. 11. Pilula Plumbi cum Opio. Strength, 1 in 8. Dose— 2-4 grs. 12. Pilula Ipecacuanhse cum Scilla. Strength, 1 in 20. Dose—4-8 grs. 13. Sup- positoria Plumbi Composita. Contains lead acetate. Strength, 1 gr. in each. 14. Lininientum Opii. Strength, 1 in 27. 15. Emplastrum Opii. Strength, 1 in 10. 16 Unguentum Gallee cum Opio. Strength, 1 in 13^. Some of the non-official preparations of opium must be mentioned. 1. Nepenthe (Anodyne Tincture) is the same strength as laudanum, and is given in similar doses. The advantages claimed for it are probably some- what overstated, but in practice it proves a most useful preparation. 2. Sydenham's laudanum (Tinctura Opii Crocata) is the same strength as laudanum. It is little used. 3. Black drop (Acetum Opii Crocatum) is four times as strong as laudanum. It is used chiefly in mining districts. 4. Vinum Opii is given in doses of 10-30 m. 5. Liquor Opii Sedativus or Battley's Sedative Solution is comparable to Extractum Opii Liquidum. It is extremely popular with some physicians. 6. Acetum Opii, average dose 8 m. 7. Opium Deodoratum is opium deprived of narcotine. Dose—1-2 grs. 8. Rapine, a proprietary preparation, is said to contain the anodyne principles of opium without the narcotic and convulsive properties. MoRPHiN.E Hydrochloridum. — Morphine hydrochloride; Hydrochlorate of morphine. A white powder, consisting of minute cubical crystals; soluble 1 in 24 of water, 1 in 50 of alcohol, 1 in 8 of glycerin. Dose—\ - \ gr. Preparations—1. Liquor Morphinse Hydrochlo- ridi. Strength, 1 per cent. Do-ie—10-60 m. 2. Tinctura Morphinje et Chloroformi Composita. Similar in composition to the popular Chloro- dyne. Strength, — gr. in 10 m. Dose—175 OPIUM 5-15 m. 3. Trochiscus Movphinge. gr. in each. 4. Trochiscus Morphinse et Ipecacuanhee. .-^ gr. in each. 5. Suppositoria Morphinte. I gr. in each. Morphin/e Acetas is more soluble than the hydrochloride, but it is rather unstable and is therefore not much used. Dose — i" ^ Preparation — Liquor Morphinse Acetati. Strength, 1 per cent. Dose—10-60 m. MoRPHiNiE Tartras is soluble 1 in 11 of water, but not in alcohol. Dose—gr. Prepara- tion— 1. Injectio Morphinae Hypodermica. Strength, 5 per cent. Dose — 2-5 m. hypo- dermically. 2. Liquor Morphinte Tartratis. Strength, 1 per cent. Dose—10-60 m. Mor- phine Sulphas is non-official but is largely used, particularly in the United States. Dionin is Ethyl-Morphine Hydrochloride, and Heroin Hydrochloride is Diacetyl Morphine Hydro- chloride. Apomorphine is morphine less one molecule of water. Generally speaking, the action of opium is first stimulant and then depressant, the latter effect being the more prominent and persistent and the one of which use is made therapeuti- cally. In those who are habituated to the use of the drug the stimulant phase is considerably more noticeable. The pulse, after a temporary acceleration, becomes slower and fuller. The respirations are diminished in frequency, and in cases of overdose, death takes place from paralysis of the respiratory centres in the medulla oblongata. The activity of the stomach and intestines is diminished by reason of stimu- lation of the splanchnic inhibitory fibres; but in very large doses peristalis may be increased by paralysis of these fibres. Metabolism all over the body is decreased, and all secretions are checked with the single exception of that of the skin, which is increased. Its most important action, that on the nervous system, is of a complex nature and varies consider- ably in different individuals. In most people the primary stimulant effect, which is such a prominent feature in the lower animals, is hardly noticeable; but in a few, great excite- ment and even delirium follow its administration. Its dominant action, however, is sedative, small doses being anodyne and larger ones hypnotic. The predominating influence is on the higher mental functions and the sensory nervous mechanism, the motor and vasomotor centres, the cord, the nerves, and the muscles being little affected. Large doses lower the body temperature. The pupil is contracted as the result of stimulation of the pupillary centres, and perhaps by depression of the sympathetic fibres. Opium is badly tolerated by those at the extremes of life, and should not be given at all or only given with great caution to children and the aged. Untoward symptoms following the employment of opium, and attributable to idiosyncrasy, may often be combated by the simultaneous administration of nitroglycerin or bromide. Opium in one form or another is the most powei'ful pain-reliever we possess, and no drug has yet been discovered which equals it in this respect. It is an infallible remedy for the alleviation of all forms of pain, but on account of its disagreeable side and after effects, and the facility with which the " opium habit" is acquired, its employment in the treatment of many painful diseases has to be restricted or absolutely prohibited. In violent painful seizures such as renal and biliary colic, and in pain associated with acute ilhiess, opium should never be withheld unless there exist some absolute contraindications to its use ; but in neuralgia, dysmenorrhoea, and other forms of less severe and particularly of recurring pain, it should either be totally avoided or only made use of as a last resource. In acute abdominal disease, whether of an inflammatory or obstruc- tive nature, it should never be employed, in the early stages at any rate, except by those of the widest experience, for the feeling and appear- ance of comfort and well-being derived from it by the patient result in an entirely false and temporary improvement which, if misinterpreted, may lead to a fatal postponement of surgical intervention. When this danger is thoroughly appreciated, however, opium is of great help in the treatment of these diseases by giving rest and sleep to the patient and by retarding the progress of inflammatory processes. As an external application to unbroken skin opium is a harmless addition to poultices and fomenta- tions, and has usually a distinct beneficial eff"ect, although the rationale of its action in this respect is not understood. In most painful conditions opium is given in the form of a hypo- dermic injection of morphia, but in some dis- eases its administration by the mouth as laud- anum, nepenthe, etc., or by the rectum as a suppository or starch enema, is to be preferred. For the relief of pain due to incurable and fatal diseases opium should be prescribed without compunction—indeed, it is unjustifiable to with- hold it—and for such cases heroin is particularly suitable. As a hypnotic in cases of simple in- somnia or of secondary sleeplessness likely to be of long dui'ation, opium is to be avoided ; but it is employed with excellent results for the per- sistent sleeplessness of acute diseases such as pneumonia and typhoid fever, where nervous exhaustion results from the want of sleep. It is advantageous in such cases to combine morphia with some other hypnotic, such as chloral. Opium appears to possess some im- perfectly understood influence over inflammatory processes, and, with the restrictions stated above with regard to abdominal cases, small doses are very valuable in cases of pleurisy, meningitis, pericarditis, peritonitis, and the like. In mild febrile attacks, such as common cold, influenza, etc., its diaphoretic action enhances its useful- ness. Opium relieves cough, and forms anOPIUM 176 ingredient of most cough mixtures, and no objection to its employment for this purpose can be raised when, as often happens, the cough- ing is excessive or, in other words, is greater than is necessary for tlie purpose of ridding the lungs of the sputum. In painful diseases of the larynx the insufflation of a powder containing acetate of morphia gives good results. In diar- rhoea and intestinal colic opium is indicated, care being observed, of course, that any irritant cause of such conditions has first of all been removed by means of a purge. Persistent and unnecessary vomiting, also, can often be checked by small doses of opium. In kidney disease, caution is to be observed in the use of opiates on account of the danger of diminution or arrest of the urinary secretion. Some would prohibit it entirely in Bright's disease ; but the dyspnoea, sleeplessness, and other symptoms of a ureemic nature complicating renal conditions are mark- edly influenced by small doses of morphia, and that as a rule without any noticeable bad effect. Opium takes an important place in the treat- ment of diabetes mellitus. Both the quantity of urine passed and the amount of sugar secreted are diminished, and the general condition of the patient is greatly improved. The dose must be rapidly increased as the maximum benefit is only obtained by ascending amounts, and dia- betic patients not only tolerate large quantities but seem to be relatively immune to the evil nervous effects of the drug. Various forms of opium administered in various ways have been advocated from time to time for this disease, but crude opium by the mouth would seem to give as good results as any. Hunger, thirst, nervous irritability, itching of the skin, and other symptoms are greatly ameliorated, and although a cvire of the disease is not to be ex- pected it is so modified that life is rendered bearable. The sudden withdrawal of opium may precipitate the onset of diabetic coma. An unreasonable dread of the employment of opium in cases of heart disease is entertained by many practitioners. Frequently cardiac dyspnoea and insomnia are greatly benefited by its use with practically no risk. Cyanosis is no absolute contraindication; but when advanced fatty degeneration, severe pulmonary complications, or serious renal diseases are present it is wiser to avoid it altogether. In all cases the initial dose must be small and its effect carefully watched, the object of the physician being to determine the mininuim quantity from which a beneficial and safe result can be obtained. In some cases it only increases the discomfort, and must be discontinued. In some forms of hfemor- rhage, especially hfemoptysis, the exhibition of morphine is most beneficial, allaying nervous excitement, quieting the heai-t's action, and ensuring local and general rest. The choice of any particular form or preparation of opium can only be decided by a careful consideration of the case under treatment, combined, of course, with a proper knowledge of the composition and pharmacological effects of the different varieties of the drug. Hard and fast rules in this con- nection are worse than useless, and in most cases little difficulty will be experienced in selecting the most suitable preparation, the decision having once been arrived at that the administration of an opiate is indicated. OpO-a—In compound words opo- (Gr. ottos, juice) as a prefix usually means relating to organic extracts; e.g. oj^o-cerebrin, opo-orchidin, opO'Ovariin, etc. OpOCepha,IUS.—A teratological type in which there is cyclopia, and fusion of the ex- ternal ears in front, with absence of the mouth and of the nasal proboscis (which is generally present in cyclopia); it is derived from the Greek wi/^, eye, and Ke<l>a\rj, head. Opodeldoc.—Linimentum saponis. The name is believed to have been invented by Paracelsus, and perhaps is associated with the Greek otrds, juice. At first the name was given to various plasters, but it is now restricted to the linimentum saponis, which is a slight modi- fication of the unguentum opodeldoch of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia of 1722. OpOpa,na.X.—A gum-resin obtained from the root of an umbelliferous plant {opopanax chironium), formerly regarded as possessing medicinal value in the form of opopanax wine, etc. OpOthera.py.—The treatment of disease by the use of animal substances (organs or extracts of organs), such as the thyroid gland, suprarenal capsule, brain substance, bone me- dulla, testicular substance, mammary gland, splenic substance, thymus gland, pituitary body, and placental extract; organotherapy. Oppenheim's Gait.—An oscillating mode of progression, somewhat resembling the spastic gait (sclerosis). Oppolzer'S Sigrn.—A sign met with in sero-fibrinous pericarditis, consisting in a change in the position of the cardiac apex beat with changes in the posture of the patient. OpponenS.—Literally, the term opponens means opposing, e.g. the opponens muscle of the thumb {opponens pollicis) which brings it into apposition to one of the fingers. Opsigfamy.—Delayed marriage (Gr. oi/^e, late, ya/Aos, marriage), i.e. marriage late in life. Opsomania. — A morbid longing for certain kinds of food (Gr. oi/'ov, rich fare, and ix.avia, madness), the eating of which is termed opsophagy.177 OPSONINS Opsonins.—Constituents of the blood serum which act upon bacteria and make them more susceptible to the destructive action of the phagocytic leucocytes; by comparing the number of bacteria ingested by the phagocytes in different conditions what is called the opsonic index is obtained. See Immunity, Recent Views {Phagocytosis). Optic.—Relating to vision, e.g. the optic nerve, the optic axis, optic atrophy, etc. See Amblyopia {Diagnosis, Hereditary Optic Atro- phy) ; Amblyopia {Pressure on Optic Nerve); Athetosis {Morbid Anatomy, Optic Thalamus); Brain, Physiology of {Optic Thalamus, Tract, Nerve, Chiasma); Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Thrombosis); Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms, Optic Neuritis); Brain, Inflamma- tions {Acute Encephalitis, Symptoms, Optic Neu- ritis) ; Brain, Surgery of {Symptoms, Optic Neuritis); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Tumour, Symptomatology, Optic Nerves); Chlo- rosis {Symptoms, Optic Neuritis); Lung, Tuber- culosis of {Comp)lications, Nervous); Malaria {Paralytic and Aphasic Form); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Symptoms); Mumps {Complica- tions, Optic Neuritis); Nephritis {Clinical Features); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflam- mation OF {Ocular Complications); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagmus, Damage to Optic Nerve); Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia, Infantile); Physiology, Neuromuscular Mech- anism (Vision, Anatomy of the Eye, Optic Axis, Optic Thalamus, Visual Centre, etc.); Retina AND Optic Nerve, Affections of {A-natomy, Inflammation, Tumours, Injuries, etc.); Stra- bismus {State of Eye); Sympathetic Ophthal- mitis ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Op)tic Neuritis); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Eye Symp- toms) ; Toxicology {Lead Poisoning, Eye Symp- toms); Typhoid Fever {Complications and SequelcE, Ocular); Vision, Field of {Optic Neuritis). OptiCO-Ciliary.—Relating to the optic and ciliary nerves, e.g. optico-ciliary neurectomy {see Sympathetic Ophthalmitis, Treatment). Optimum. — Literally, optimum means the best, and it has been defined specially as "that degree or amount of heat, light, food, moisture, etc. most favourable for growth, re- production, or other vital process"; in physio- logy, the smallest stimulus which causes the maximum muscular contraction is called the optimum stimulus. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Contraction). Optogram.—An image formed on the retina by light; it may be rendered permanent by chemical means immediately after death. Optometer.—An instrument for testing or measuring vision. vol. vii Oral.—Relating to the mouth (Lat. os, the mouth). See Mouth, Diseases of the. Orang'e. See Auranth Cortex ; Scurvy, Infantile {Treatment). Orang'eade. See Invalid-Feeding {Food in Pyrexial States). Orangre Flower Water. See Aura NTH Cortex. Orangre River Colony. See Thera- peutics, Health Resorts {South Africa). Orang'e Wine, ^fe Alcohol; Auranth Cortex. Ora Serrata. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Eye, Anatomy of; Retina). Orbicularis.—Circular; a name given to various circular muscles, such as the orbi- cularis oris and the orbicularis palpebrarum. See Eyelids, Affections of {Affections of Muscles, Spasm and Paralysis). Orbit, Diseases of the. Anatomy of the Orbit— Congenital and Acqidred Malfcn'ma- tions . . . . . .177 Inflammatory Affections of the Orbit— (1) Beginning in the Periosteum or Bony Walls . . . .179 2) Beginning in the Cellular Tissue . 180 Thrombosis of the Cavernous Sinus\ . 181 Injuries of the Orbit— (1) Injuries of the Soft Parts . .182 (2) Injuries of the Bony Walls. . 182 Tumours of the Orbit . . . .183 (1) Solid Gi'owths — Sarcoma, Car- cinoma, Osteoma, etc. . .185 (2) Cystic Growths — Congenital, Parasitic, etc. . . . .186 (3) Vascular Growths—Angioma . 187 Pulsating Exophthalmos . . .188 Intermittent Exophthalmos . . .189 See also Eye, Diseases of ; Aneurysm {Arterio- venous, Orbital Aneurysm, Pulsating Exoph- thalmos) ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflamma- tion OF {Eye Symptoms); Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Paralysis, Etiology, Lesions of 07-bit); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequela?, Ocular Complications). Congenital and Acquired Malformations of the Orbit.—The bony orbit is a pyramidal fossa, irregularly quadrilateral. The inside angles are rounded so that in section the shape is more conical than pyramidal. The base of the pyramid corresponding to the anterior aperture of the orbit is directed forwards and a little outwards. The apex is at the optic foramen in the sphenoid bone. The inner walls of the two orbits are approximately parallel, while the 12178 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE temporal walls diverge so as to be nearly at right angles to each other. The nasal wall, formed from behind forwards by the sphenoid, ethmoid, lacrymal and superior maxillai-y bones, is the thinnest, and constitutes but a slender partition between the orbit and the adjoining ethmoidal sinuses and the superior and middle meatus of the nose. Posteriorly, where the body of the sphenoid enters into its formation, the wall is thicker and more resistant. At its anterior border, between the superior maxillary and lacrymal bones, is the lacrymal groove leading to the nasal duct. The roof of the orbit formed by the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone and the orbital plate of the frontal is very thin, especially in the middle and anterior portions, and is here readily perforated by disease or injury. In old age it may be so thin in places that the peri- osteum of the orbit and the dura mater of the anterior fossa of the skull are practically in con- tact. At the anterior and inner part it separ- ates the frontal sinus from the orbital cavity. The floor of the orbit is formed almost wholly by the superior maxilla and to a small extent by the malar and palate bones. It is for the most part thin, and separates the cavity of the orbit from that of the antrum. Traversing it from behind forwards is the groove carrying the infra-orbital nerve and artery. The outer wall is the strongest of the four, and in its surgical relations the least important. It is formed by the malar bone, the great wing of the sphenoid, and a small portion of the frontal bone. The cavity of the orbit is connected with adjoining parts by three important apertures. At the apex is the foramen opticuni passing through the base of the lesser wing of the sphenoid to the middle fossa of the cranium, and transmitting the optic nerve and ophthal- mic artery. The sphenoidal fissure, sometimes called the superior orbital fissure, lies between the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid; its inner end occupies the apex of the orbit, its outer narrower part is between the roof and the external wall. It communicates with the middle fossa of the skull and gives passage to the oculo-motor nerves (third, fourth, and sixth) and the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. The spheno-maxillary, or inferior orbital fissure, between the outer wall and floor of the orbit, leads posteriorly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and anteriorly into the zygomatic fossa. At its hinder end the infra-orbital nerve enters the bony canal in the floor of the orbit. The bony walls of the orbit are covered throughout by a thin periosteum, conveniently termed the " peri-orbita," which is directly continuous at the optic foramen with the dura mater and the dural sheath of the optic nerve. Its adhesion to the orbital walls is not very firm, except along the interosseous sutures and at the margins. Hence separation of the peri- osteum from the bone is readily induced by a collection of pus, or other products of disease, and is easily effected during operations when necessary. Contents of the Orbit.—The contents of the orbit comprise the eyeball, optic nerve, ocular muscles, lacrymal gland, vessels and nerves. These structures are supported by connective tissue and orbital fat. The connective tissue forms certain fasciae, which play an important part in the maintenance and control of the relative positions of the orbital structures. These are, chiefly, the tarso-orbital fascia, or palpebral ligament, attached to the margins of the orbit and to the tarsus of the upper and lower lid ; the fascia connecting the extra-ocular muscles with each other and with the margin of the orbit as check ligaments; and the fascia hulhi (or Tenon's capsule), a fibrous capsule surrounding the eyeball and forming a sort of socket in which the globe rotates. It is con- tinuous with the fascia of the recti and obliqui, and is reflected upon the tendons of these muscles where they pass through it. The blood-supply is derived from the ophthal- mic branch of the internal carotid artery, which enters the orbit through the optic foramen. The venous blood leaves the orbit by two main channels, the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins, which pass through the sphenoidal fissure to the cavernous sinus, into which they empty. There are numerous anastomoses between the branches of the ophthalmic veins and of the facial vein. The nerves of the orbit are motor nerves to the ocular muscles (third, fourth, and sixth); and sensory nerves derived from the first (chiefly) and second divisions of the trigeminus. The ciliary ganglion, situated close to the temporal side of the optic nerve, near the apex of the orbit, derives motor fibres from the third nerve, sensory fibres from the ophthalmic division of the trigeminus, and sympathetic fibres from the plexus on the carotid artery. The bony cavities in proximity to the orbit, and which are frequently in pathological relation to it, are the frontal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses, and the nasal fossse. Disease in any of these cavities may extend to the orbital tissues, or may lead to distortion of the walls of the orbit and displacement of its contents. The period of development of the sinuses should be borne in mind. The maxillary sinus or antrum begins to be formed during the fourth month of foetal life; the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses first appear during childhood, but remain of small size up to the age of puberty, when they undergo great enlargement. In old age these sinuses all increase in size by the absorption of the cancellous bone around them.ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 179 Malfoi-mations of the Orbit. — These are usually congenital, and for the most part occur in connection with gross developmental anomalies of the skull. In the microcephalic and oxycephalic deformity resulting from pre- mature synostosis (Virchow), the orbits are often very shallow and the eyeballs greatly protruded. In cases of microphthalmos, or anophthalmos, the orbit may be much reduced in size, very narrow, with a defective roof, and absence of the optic foramen. Arrest of development of the bony walls is occasionally seen. The most usual site of this deformity is the upper inner part corresponding to the suture between the frontal and ethmoid bones. Through the gap in the bone the cerebral meninges may protrude and give rise to dis- placement of the eyeball and other symptoms. Acquired malformations of the orbit are not imcommon. They are generally caused by encroachment on the orbital space by one or more of the neighbouring sinuses, as the result of disease. In hydrocephalus the orbit may undergo diminution in depth and the eyeballs become protruded by pressure of the intra- cranial fluid pushing forwards the bones at the apex of the orbit. Inflammatory Affections of the Orbit (1) Beginning in the Periosteum or Bony Walls ' 179 (2) Beginning in the Cellular Tissue . 180 1. Periostitis, or, more strictly, osteo-peri- ostitis, of the orbital walls is not uncommon, and, like bone inflammations elsewhere, is, with the exception of the syphilitic form, most frequent in children. The disease most com- monly attacks the thicker part of the bones at or near the orbital margin; just as in the long- bones, the ends where there is more cancellous tissue are more often the seat of inflammation than the shaft. The signs of disease will necessarily differ according to the site of the lesion. In cases in which the disease is near the orbital margin no difficvxlty attends the diagnosis, but in instances of deeply-seated inflammation the diagnosis in an early stage may be far from easy. Two forms of inflammation are met with: acute, in which suppuration and necrosis rapidly ensue, and in which considerable destruction of bone may result; and chronic, leading to slow and progressive loss of osseous tissue, and often to the formation of fistulous openings and of irregular bony nodules about the area of dis- ease. The chronic form is the more common. In acute periostitis the symptoms are usually severe. The attack may be ushered in by fever, rigors, headache, and gastric disturbance, accompanied or quickly followed by great pain in and around the orbit, with tenderness on pressure over the bony margins, even when the periostitis is deeply seated. The eyelids be- come red and swollen, tense and bi-awny, and the ocular conjunctiva congested and oedematous. Protrusion of the eyeball soon occurs, varying in degree accoi'ding to the site of the periostitis ; and although sometimes very marked, is not as extreme as in many cases of slowly-developing orbital disease. There may also be lateral or vertical displacement of the globe. The move- ments of the eyeball are restricted; but such limitation is, as a rule, less noticeable and less general than in cases of orbital cellulitis. Pro- nounced loss of movement in all directions is indicative of extension of the inflammation to the orbital cellular tissue. In severe cases in which there is great swelling and much inter- ference with circulation, the cornea may rapidly become opaque and may slough, wholly or in part. If the bone disease is in the anterior part of the orbit, palpation may disclose a more or less resistant and possibly fluctuating swelling ; but frequently, owing to the oedema of lids and the extreme tenderness, it is impossible to gain much evidence by this method of examination. When situated more deeply the local lesion cannot be reached by the Angers. The signs are those of an acute painful inflammation, and until pus makes its way to the surface, or is found by exploratory incision, the diagnosis of periostitis remains in some doubt. The chronic form of oesteo-periostitis is a more insidious malady, and the inflammatory signs and symptoms are often very slightly marked. The pain is not severe. There may be no fever or other constitutional disturbance, and the objective evidence of disease may be limited to slight swelling of the lids and protrusion of the eyeball, with tenderness on pressure. Hence the diagnosis between an inflammatory condition and a new growth, such as sarcoma or osteoma, is sometimes very difficult. This is especially true of syphilitic periostitis, which, in the limited and slowly-increasing area of disease and its hardness to palpation, may closely resemble an exostosis. If the site of the periostitis is near the orbital margin, there are oedema of the adjoin- ing soft parts, thickening of the bone, and sometimes a fluctuating swelling. Exophthal- mos may be absent throughout, or may develop only as a late symptom. The periosteum often becomes separated from the bone over a large area, and hence an abscess, though of consider- able size, may be so diffuse as to cause but little displacement of the orbital contents. The abscess which forms tends to point anteriorly through the conjunctiva or the skin of the lids; it may, however, open into the nose or other cavities adjacent to the orbit, or pus may make its way through the roof of the orbit into the intracranial cavity. In very chronic cases in180 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE which there is little tendency to the formation of pus, great thickening of the periosteum may result, with the development of spicules and nodules of bone at the margins of the diseased area. The common causes of orbital periostitis are —injury, tubercle, and extension of disease from neighbouring sinuses and the nasal fosste. According to Panas the majority of cases of orbital osteo-periostitis are due to infection from the nasal fosste or the sinuses immediately adjoining the orbit. In traumatic cases the disease is nearly always at or close to the margin of the orbit. There is no doubt that in many, probably the large majority, of such instances the disease is induced by injury in consequence of an unsound constitutional condition. The syphilitic variety is almost confined to adults, and to those in the tertiary stage of acquired syphilis. Cases are, however, occasion- ally met with in children, the subjects of in- herited syphilis. This form is generally chronic. The tubercular variety is essentially a disease of childhood. Treatment.—The general treatment of orbital periostitis will necessarily depend on the nature of the case. In severe instances in which the patient is acutely ill, treatment must be largely symptomatic. Opiates for the relief of pain, ^ and quinine, and other antipyretic drugs should ' be employed, and the diet must be suitable for a patient in a febrile state. In the more chronic cases, especially those in tubercular children, dietetic and hygienic treatment is of great importance; the most useful drugs are such as cod-liver oil, maltine, and the phos- phates of iron and calcium. In syphilitic cases, iodide of potassium or sodium in increasing doses should be administered. In feeble and badly-nourished patients, iron or cod-liver oil should be given in addition, while the diet should be nutritious and easily assimilable. Local Treatment.—In acute cases, local de- pletion, by means of leeches applied to the temporal and malar regions, and the constant application of hot dressings, relieve the pain and tension of the tissues. As soon as suppura- tion occurs, an incision should be made, and the pus evacuated. In cases of deeply-seated disease it is not advisable to wait for the abscess to show itself at the surface. An incision should be made through the upper or lower eyelid at the site of greatest prominence, and an attempt made to reach the abscess cavity, observing great care to avoid the eyeball and its muscles, and the levator palpebrse supei'ioris. The abscess, being opened, should be carefully washed out with a gentle stream of sterilised water or other aseptic solution (such as weak perchloride of mercury), and carefully examined for necrosed bone. The removal of carious bone from the orbital walls, except at the margins, is always a difficult matter, and, owing to the thinness of the bones, is often attended by considerable risk of injury to neighbouring important structures. In cases of orbital abscess, from whatever cause, it is important to make an external incision large enough to admit of the free escape of pus. Draining the orbit is always difficult, for with the patient in a recumbent position the path for the escape of pus is uphill, and hence the abscess cavity should be washed out more frequently than is necessary in some other situations. Permanent displacement, usually eversion, of one or other eyelid is a not infrequent result of osteo-periostitis in cases in which the disease has attacked the orbital margin. This cicatri- cial ectropion is often seen in the tubercular form of bone disease in children. Deeply-seated periostitis may be followed by limitation of the ocular movements from ad- hesions between muscles and neighbouring- structures, and occasionally by post - neuritic atrophy of the optic nerve. 2. Orbital cellulitis or orbital phlegmon is an inflammation of the cellular tissue of the orbit, which usually terminates in suppuration and orbital abscess. Exceptionally the inflammation may subside without the formation of pus. There is also a rare variety known as plastic cellulitis, in which the inflammatory exudation is of a fibrinous character, and there is very little tendency to the formation of pus. Orbital cellulitis is generally one-sided, but occasionally both orbits are involved simulta- neously. Extension or transference of inflamma- tion from one orbit to another is sometimes seen. The affection is generally acute, but subacute and chronic forms are met with. In the acute form the chief local signs are rapidly increasing swelling and redness of the eyelids; great injection and chemosis of the conjunctiva, which often overlaps the corneal margins; protrusion of the eyeball and early impairment of its move- ments, which later may be entirely in abeyance. In severe cases the eyeball may be excessively proptosed, the conjunctiva very oedematous, and rapidly-destructive ulceration of the cornea may ensue. The displacement of the globe may be lateral or vertical as well as forwards. Palpa- tion seldom reveals local disease, but all the tissues are tense and resistant, and examination is difficult. The pain is severe, and fever and other evidences of constitutional disturbance are often very marked. Sight may or may not be defective; this depends upon involvement or escape of the optic nerve. In some instances when the disease has lasted for a few days, neuro-retinitis may be discovered on ophthalmo- scopic examination; frequently, however, it is impossible to obtain a view of the fundus oculi. After a varying period, seldom less than threeORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 181 days, the skin of the lids becomes dusky and thinned, and pns makes its way to the surface ; the abscess, may, however, open through the conjunctiva. The discharge is followed by relief of the subjective symptoms, and by diminution in the tension and duskiness of the lids, and the swelling of the conjunctiva. In subacute or chronic cases the signs and symptoms are all less severe, and pus is longer in making its way to the surface. The causes of orbital cellulitis are numerous. It is frequently traumatic, resulting from a septic penetrating wound, with or without the retention of a foreign body in the orbit. It occasionally follows fracture of bones of the orbital walls. Of non-traumatic causes the most common are extension of inflammation from the bony walls of the orbit, from neigh- bouring sinuses {e.g. the frontal sinus), from the skin in facial erysipelas, or from the eyeball in panophthalmitis. Less frequently cellulitis arises by the spread of inflammation from the superior maxilla in diseased conditions of the teeth, from the pharynx and nose and nasal duct, and by septic thrombosis in pysemic and septicEemic states. Treatment.—This will vary somewhat accord- ing to the severity of the case. In all instances, however, the evacuation of an abscess cavity as soon as formed is imperative. If the case be acute, with much swelling and tension of lids and protrusion of globe, an incision should be made before the abscess points. In slighter cases local depletion by leeches and repeated hot compresses may be employed at first, and the abscess opened as soon as its existence can be definitely determined. Unless the abscess be pointing, the incision should be made at the site of greatest tension, but preferably towards one end of the eyelid. A narrow knife should be entered deeply into the orbit, parallel to the nearest wall, carefully avoiding the eyeball and other important structures. The external opening should be large. The abscess being evacuated, careful examination with the probe should be made to ascertain the site and size of the cavity, and whether it leads to carious bone, or is in communication with adjoining- sinuses. Thorough irrigation of the abscess cavity should be employed, a drainage tube inserted, and warm dressings applied. In cases of orbital cellulitis from facial erysipelas, early and free incisions should be made to prevent extensive sloughing of the eyelids. When panophthalmitis occurs, the eyeball should be in- cised, and the contents evacuated. The shrunken globe should be removed at a later date. The general treatment in cases of orbital cellulitis must be governed by the condition of the patient. In debilitated patients stimulants and good feeding are necessary. If the pain is severe, opiates should be administered : quinine is a useful drug in most cases. Results of Orbital Cellulitis.—In mild forms no permanent damage may ensue. In severe cases the orbital tissues may become adherent and remain bound by cicatricial bands, so that the movements of the globe are much impaired. Partial or complete loss of sight from optic nerve atrophy is not uncommon, and is an almost constant result of the cellulitis accom- panying facial erysipelas. Blindness may also be caused by damage to or destruction of the cornea. Fatal results occasionally accrue from extension of inflammation to the meninges, or by phlebitis of the orbital veins spreading to the cavernous sinus. Thrombosis of the Cavernous Sinus.—This is not primarily a disease of the orbit, but as in some respects it closely resembles orbital cellulitis, a brief description seems desirable. Thrombosis of the cavernous sinus necessarily leads to obstruction in the orbital veins, and it is probable that in cases in Avhich the symptoms most nearly approach those of orbital cellulitis, phlebitis of these veins has occurred. The usual symptoms in this affection are a varying degree of exophthalmos, with limitation of ocular move- ments, oedema of the eyelids and conjunctiva, and pain, which is often very severe. There may be, as later developments, paralysis of ocular muscles, and anaesthesia over the area of distribution of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, from pressure on the nerve-trunks in the sinus. Vision is usually impaired, and the retinal veins are found greatly distended. Oedema of the skin in the mastoid region is present in many cases. If the thrombosis is septic, abscesses may form in the eyelids or orbital tissues. In many cases the diseased process extends from one cavernous sinus to that of the opposite side, by way of the circular sinus, and symptoms then develop in the second orbit. The most common cause of thrombosis is inflammation of the sinus, due either to infection from some septic focus or to a general pysemic condition, or to extension of inflammation to the sinus from carious bone in the vicinity, or from the ear in otitis media. Less common causes are fractures of the base of the skull, and conditions of health which encourage spon- taneous clotting, such as chronic phthisis and marasmus. The prognosis is very unfavourable. Most cases terminate fatally, usually in coma. The dui-ation varies from twenty-four hours to two or three weeks, but in one instance three months and a half elapsed between the onset of ocular symptoms and death. The serious constitutional disturbance, the association of cerebral symptoms, the oedema in the mastoid region, and the frequent involve- ment of the second orbit, are important signs in the diagnosis of this disease from orbital cellulitis. Paralysis of ocular nerves, both182 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE motor and sensory, is more frequent in throm- bosis cases, and sometimes occurs as the earliest symptom, before the onset of exophthalmos or oedema. Injuries of the Orbit ^ I7iju7'ies of the Soft Farts.—These are almost always dvie to laceration of structures by pene- trating wounds, or the entrance of foreign bodies, such as chips of metal, bullets, or shot pellets. The immediate result of penetrating wounds is haemorrhage into the orbital tissues, and if large or numerous vessels have been divided, a htematoma of considerable size may form. This is followed by exophthalmos, which may rapidly become so great as to endanger the cornea from exposure and interference with its nutrition. The extravasated blood usually finds its way forward, and appears imder the ocular conjunctiva and beneath the skin of the eyelids. Under treatment by rest and the application of ice, bleeding usually ceases, and as the extra- vasated blood undergoes absorption, the eyeball resumes its normal position. If the wound be septic, suppuration may occur in the blood-clot, and an orbital abscess result. Extensive liBemor- rhage in the orbit may also be caused by severe blows without a penetrating wound. In such instances there is usually fracture of the bony wall of the orbit. Complete division of one or more of the recti muscles is an occasional result of perforating wounds by sharp instruments. The eyeball may wholly escape injury in such cases. Devia- tion of the eye and loss of movement in one direction, and diplopia will indicate the nature of the injury. Division or severe laceration of the optic nerve is a not uncommon result of penetrating wounds of the orbit by bullets or such imple- ments as knitting-needles, pencils, etc. which make but a small external wound, and may not injure other important structures. In such cases there is immediate and generally perma- nent defect or loss of sight. The eye may, and probably will, appear uninjured, but will usually show dilatation of the pupil and loss of restric- tion of its reaction to direct illumination. Ophthalmoscopic examination reveals nothing abnormal at the time of or soon after the injury; but in the course of two or three weeks, or longer, signs of atrophy of the optic disc make their appearance. If the nerve has been wounded at a point anterior to the entrance of the arteria centralis retinae, the ophthalmoscopic appearances will resemble those of embolism, namely, cloudiness of the retina, and shrinking of its arteries. Foreign bodies of very considerable size may lodge in the orbit and give rise to no external signs by which their presence can be detected. ' Injuries of the Eyeball and Eyelids. See vol. iii. p. 207 et seq. On the other hand, they not infrequently cause some displacement of the eyeball and limita- tion of its movement, and occasionally complete dislocation of the globe. If the missile has entered the orbit forcibly, it may traverse the cavity and pass through the bony wall. Perforation of the roof of the orbit and wound of the meninges or brain in this way is usually followed by meningitis or cerebral abscess and death. In children, such a result sometimes occurs from a perforating wound by a small stick or similar implement with which the child is playing and upon which he falls. The stick is withdrawn, and as the wound appears trivial but little notice is taken of it until the onset of cerebral symptoms. The wound of entrance is sometimes in the conjunctiva beneath the upper eyelid, and may easily be overlooked. When the presence of a foreign body in the orbit is suspected the wound should be carefully probed. In the case of fragments of metal, stone, etc., examination by X-rays should be resorted to. Injuries of the Bony Walls of the Orbit.— Fractures of the bony walls may result from direct or indirect violence. They are commonly caused by severe blows in the orbital region, with or without laceration of the superficial structures. They may involve any portion of the orbital wall. Fractures at the margin of the orbit are easily detected by the irregularity of ovitline and crepitation; small fragments of bone may be so completely separated as to be freely movable. Fractures of the deeper parts of the orbital wall are more difficult of diagnosis. If the outer wall is involved, it is sometimes possible to detect crepitation or movement of the segments. When the inner wall has been fractured and communication with the respira- tory passages established, emphysema of the orbital tissues usually occurs. This is followed by exophthalmos. Emphysema can be dis- tinguished from haemorrhage in the orbit by a feeling of crepitation in the tissues, the diminu- tion of the swelling by pressure, and its increase during forced expiration. Bleeding from the nose is also usual in fracture of the inner wall. If the fracture is situated anteriorly, displace- ment of the lacrymal bone or of a fragment of the ethmoid bone may be discovered on careful palpation. Fracture of the floor of the orbit into the maxillary antrum may be followed by emphysema; and the infra-orbital nerve may be lacerated, causing anaesthesia over the area of its distribution. Fracture of the roof of the orbit is generally caused by penetrating wounds, and is therefore most dangerous. It may, however, be due to indirect violence; and there being no objective signs, the earliest clear indication of the fracture may be the onset of symptoms of meningitis.ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 183 If caused by a penetrating wound, examination by careful probing may afford evidence of the fracture. Such injuries are always seriovis, and when due to perforating wounds are fatal in a large proportion (over 80 per cent, Berlin) of the cases. Cerebral symptoms may not appear for some days after the injury. In all cases of fracture of the orbital walls, extensive haemorrhage into the soft parts may occur, inducing exophthalmos. Fracture of the sphenoid bone, involving the optic foramen and damaging the optic nerve, is not very uncommon. It is caused by blows or falls upon the head, usually in the frontal region, and may or may not be associated with extensive fracture of the base of the skull. The ocular symptoms are immediate and generally complete loss of sight in the eye on the side of the injury, although in consequence of the mental condition of the patient the blindness often remains undiscovered for some days after the accident. No ophthalmoscopic signs of injury are found at the time, but in the course of a few weeks the optic disc invariably becomes atrophied. The blindness is due to laceration of the optic nerve in the foramen opticum, or, possibly, in some instances to com- pression of the nerve by extravasated blood. Recovery of vision is very unusual. Such cases may have a medico-legal importance, as owing to the absence of visible changes at first, simu- lation of blindness may be suspected. Severe blows upon the orbit are occasionally followed by recession of the eyeball, and narrowing of the palpebral fissure, a condition to which the term enoj^hthalmos traumaticus is applied. The enophthalmos may appear im- mediately after the injury, or not until the lapse of some weeks. In the former case, the cause is probably fracture of the floor of the orbit into the antrum of Highmore ; in the latter the formation of citatricial bands and shrinking of the orbital fat as a result of in- flammatory changes. Treatment.—Penetrating wounds of the orbit should be treated by careful cleansing and dis- infection of the wound, and the provision of free drainage, if necessary. The skin wound, unless very minute, should be sutured, in part or in its whole extent, and, if ragged, should be trimmed, and its edges brought together as accurately as possible, to minimise the subsequent disfigurement. Ordinary surgical dressings are then applied. If a foreign body is detected, it should, as a rule, be removed; but small shot, or minute fragments of steel or other metal which have penetrated deeply, are usually better left undisturbed. In cut- ting down upon a foreign body in the orbit, great care should be taken to avoid injury of the ocular muscles and nerves, and the fragment should be removed with as little disturbance of the structures as possible. This precaution is especially needful when dealing with a long splinter of metal or wood, the deeper end of which may have penetrated the cranial cavity. If an abscess form in the track of the wound, it must be dealt with by incision and drainage, and other usual means. When exophthalmos from haemorrhage or emphysema is extreme, continuous pressure by a bandage should be employed, and great care be exercised in the protection of the cornea. In cases of recent laceration or division of one of the recti muscles, an attempt should be made to find and unite the cut ends. If the injury is of long standing, other operative pro- cedures may be needful. Fractures of the orbital wall seldom require or admit of treatment designed to reduce dis- placement, but when the injury involves the margin of the orbit, it is sometimes possible to replace the fragments and keep them in position by careful bandaging. Small loose splinters of bone, especially if associated with a lacerated wound, should be removed. All cases of sus- pected deep fracture of the orbital walls, especially of the roof, should be considered serious, and carefully watched for the develop- ment of cerebral symptoms. Tumours of the Orbit The difficulty of satisfactorily classifying tumours of the orbit is evident from the very varied ai-rangement adopted by different writers. A rough, but useful, clinical division of orbital tumours is into solid, cystic, and vascular. The first group will include osseous, sarcomatous, and carcinomatous tumours, and some rarer growths; the second, congenital cystic forma- tions and parasitic cysts; while in the third group are placed all varieties of angioma. Tumours of the orbit are not uncommon. Statistics indicate that they account for rather more than 40 per cent of all kinds of disease of the orbit. Their frequency varies con- siderably with age. According to Hasner, the largest proportion of cases is met with in the first decade of life; the next largest in the second decade. Of the subsequent periods the fifth decade shows the greatest number. These statistics may be partially explained by the fact that most cases of congenital tumours come under observation and treatment during childhood. Tumours may be primarily orbital, that is, originating in the tissues of the orbit, or, as is frequently the case, they may spread to the orbit from neighbouring structures in which they have arisen. The diagnosis between these two classes of cases, although difficult clinically, is important in reference to the question of operative treatment, and consequently of prognosis. A new growth which begins in, and is limited to, the orbit much more readily admits of complete removal than one which184 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE springs from the ethmoidal sinus, for example, and makes its way into the orbit. The difficulty in diagnosis is enhanced by the fact that tumours originating in the ethmoid, sphenoid, or frontal sinus may attain a considerable size, and remain undiscovered until their extension into the orbit gives rise to signs or symptoms which attract attention. Metastatic orbital tumours have been reported, but they are extremely rare. The most frequent clinical sign of orbital tumour, and one which is common to all varieties, is exophthalmos. The degree and the direction of the displacement of the eyeball vary considerably, and are dependent upon the size and position of the tumour, and the presence or absence of coincident inflammation of the orbital cellular tissue. The degree of exoph- thalmos, however, bears no constant relation to the size of the tumour. If the latter be situated at the apex of the orbit it may grow to a considerable size without causing much displacement of the globe. In cases in which the tumour attains a large size, the proptosis becomes extreme, the eye and other orbital contents being pushed forwards until the globe may be almost dislocated between the eyelids. Manipulation of the eye during the examination of such cases may readily lead to complete dislocation. The protrusion of the eyeball is seldom directly forwards. There is generally in addition some lateral or vertical displacement, and the direction of this is indicative of the position of the new growth. When the tumour originates in the optic nerve, or its sheath, the eyeball is displaced directly forwards. The protruded globe in cases of orbital tumour offers a very variable resistance to backward pressure. In soft and very vascular growths, and in cystic or aneurysmal tumours, the exophthalmos can be appreciably reduced by pressing the eyeball into the orbit; whereas in cases of sarcoma and other solid tumours, especially osteoma, little or no alteration in the protrusion of the globe can be effected by pressure. Derangement of the movements of the eye- ball is another common symptom of orbital tumour, and is present to a greater or less degree in all cases in which displacement of the eye occurs. The loss of mobility may be slight and only in one direction, or all the ocular movements may be restricted. Limita- tion of movement is frequently due to mechani- cal interference with one or more of the ocular muscles by a solid growth, or a tense cyst pushing the muscle aside and stretching it, or growing round it. In some cases the muscle is invaded by new growth and disorganised, and in others the trunks of the motor nerves are involved by a tumour arising in the vicinity of the sphenoidal fissure. In addition to loss of ocular movement there is, not infrequently, more or less ptosis, from paralysis of, or mechanical interference with, the levator palpebrse superioris. In slight degrees of exophthalmos the eye- lids may have a normal appearance, although pushed forwards by the protruding globe. As the exophthalmos increases, the eyelids, and especially the upper lid, become swollen, con- gested, and often dusky, and the enlarged veins become visible through the skin. The visual disturbance induced by an orbital tumour varies very widely. Impairment of sight may occur as an early symptom, or not until the exophthalmos becomes extreme. It is due to atrophy of the optic nerve from pressure of the tumour, or to neuritis. In the former case the ophthalmoscope will reveal a pale atrophic optic disc, and in the latter a swollen inflamed papilla. The ophthalmoscopic changes may, however, be very slight, and merely indicative of obstruction to the return of blood from the retina. In cases in which good vision is retained, but the eye is displaced and its movement restricted, diplopia will be a prominent and annoying symptom. If the exophthalmos is extreme, so that the lids cannot be made to cover the eyeball, the cornea is prone to suffer. Keratitis from exposure sets in, and rapid ulceration and sloughing may lead to the complete destruction of the cornea. It is unusual for an orbital tumour to invade the eyeball, even in cases in which the growth originates in the optic-nerve sheath. Some of the more malignant forms, however, attack all the tissues with which they come in con- tact. Examination of the orbit by palpation frequently furnishes important evidence, not only as to the existence of a tumour, but also as to its position, size, and other characteristics. Digital examination may enable us to determine whether the growth is cystic or solid, and whether it is fixed or movable. But, except in instances in which the tumour has extended far forwards, it is often difScult to reach it with the fingers. There is not much space between the eyeball and the orbital margin, and pressure with the fingers in this space renders the tissues so tense that careful palpation becomes extremely difficult. In cases of doubt as to the nature of a growth, puncture by a needle or trocar may materially assist the diagnosis ; or an exploratory incision, and if necessary, removal of a small portion of growth for microscopical examination, should be resorted to. When there is uncertainty as to the source of a tumour, that is, whether it has originated in the orbit or extended to it from one of the neighbouring sinuses, examination, by transillumination, by means of an electric light in the patient's mouth, should be made. In this way the presence of a growth in the frontal or maxillary sinus or the nasal fossae can be de-ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 185 tected, by the obstraction it offers to the passage of light through these cavities. Pain, as a symptom of orbital new growth, is of very varying severity, and is not constantly present. The pain may be due to involvement of sensory nerves by the growth, as well as to distension of tissues. It not infrequently radiates along the first and second divisions of the fifth nerve. Tenderness on pressure is not, as a rule, noticeable. Loss of sensation over the area supplied by the first and second divisions of the trigeminal nerve is occasionally caused by pressure upon or destruction of these nerve- trunks by the growth. Tumours of the orbit but seldom lead to involvement of lymphatic glands which are accessible to examination. The explanation of this is that the lymphatics from the eyeball and the orbital tissues pass backwards through the orbit to empty into the internal maxillary glands. In cases in which the eyelids are involved, infection of superficial lymphatic glands may occur. The first to show this are the glands of the parotid region, and especially the prae-aural gland lying immediately below the zygoma and in front of the tragus. Benign orbital tumours may lead to loss of sight and paralysis of sensory and motor nerves in the way already mentioned, but are seldom dangerous to life. Some varieties, e.g. osteo- mata, may endanger life by encroachment on the cranial cavity through the roof of the orbit. Malignant tumours of the orbit are frequently fatal, death resulting from extension of the growth to the base of the brain, or by metastatic deposits in vital organs. Solid Orbital Tumours.—Of tumours which can be considered under this heading, the sarco- mata are by far the most common. All kinds are met with, but the most frequent are the round-celled and spindle-celled varieties, while not a few have the histological characters of fibro-sarcoma. Myxo-sarcoma, cylindroma, and endothelioma also occur, though less commonly. Melano-sarcoma of the orbit is rarely met with, and is probably always secondary to tumour of the uveal tract or of the skin of the eyelids, but cases considered primary have been recorded. Round-celled sarcomata are most common in young subjects, and spindle-celled tumours in those over forty years of age. Fibro-sarcoma is occasionally met with in young children. Primary sarcoma of the orbit may originate in the bone or periosteum, in the connective tissue or muscles, in the lacrymal gland, or in the sheath of the optic nerve. These tumours are usually hard, with a smooth but often nodular surface ; they are fairly sharply defined, and are not infrequently encapsuled. When very vascular, they are more or less compressible, and occasionally pulsation can be detected. Puncture of such a growth allows the escape of a yellowish or sanguineous fluid, which may lead to the faulty diagnosis of a cystic growth. A very myxomatous tumour may give ill-defined fluctuation on palpation. If growing from the periosteum the tumour is fixed, but when spring- ing from other tissues it is usually slightly movable. Sarcoma of the orbit is always malignant, although there are wide variations in the rate of growth, the readiness with which the tumour invades surrounding structures, and its liability to recur. The prognosis is unfavourable, but more decidedly so if the neoplasm has extended to the orbit from one of the neighbouring sin- uses. Local recurrence and metastasis are, un- fortunately, common. Carcinoma of the orbit, when primary, origi- nates in the lacrymal gland, and is the glandular variety,' or adeno-carcinoma. Cancer originat- ing in the skin of the eyelids, in the conjunctiva, or in the nasal passages, may extend deeply into the orbit and form a large tumour. When the lacrymal gland is the seat of disease, the tumour can be felt beneath the rim of the orbit. It is very hard and almost immovable. Its growth is not rapid, and it extends backwards into the orbit as well as anteriorly. This variety of carcinoma is met with in young adults as well as in the aged. The prognosis is very gloomy; local recurrence is frequent, and ex- tension to neighbouring vital structures or metastasis in distant ones is not uncommon. The remaining solid tumours of the orbit are non-malignant. Osteoma of the orbit occurs in two forms : in one, termed exostosis, the growth assumes the form of a distinct tumour; in the other, hyperostosis, there is a widespread hyper- plasia of the bone, but no definite tumour. Exostosis is not only the most common variety of bony tumour of the orbit, but is also more frequent than exostosis of other parts of the skull. The tumour may arise from the orbital wall, or, springing from one of the neighbouring sinuses, especially the frontal, may grow through its wall into the cavity of the orbit. The favourite site of these tumours is the roof or nasal wall of the orbit, but they occasionally spring from the floor, and more rarely from the outer wall. Their greater frequency at the nasal and upper part is probably explained by the large proportion which originate in the frontal and ethmoidal siniises. An exostosis may consist of either spongy or compact bone. The latter form is much more frequent, and the density and hardness of the bone are such that the growth is known as an ivory exostosis. Spongy exostosis, and others composed of bony and cartilaginous tissue are also met with. Panas states that the tumours which arise in the orbit are more frequently of the cancellous variety, and show more tendency to superficial expansion than do the ivory exostosis. Orbital exostosis is generally unilateral, but examples of bilateral and symmetrical growths have beenORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 186 recorded. Occasionally more than one tumour is found in an orbit. These tumours are gener- ally of a roughly hemispherical shape, and have a wide base of attachment to the orbital wall; occasionally they are globular in form, and attached by a narrow pedicle; the surface is usually uneven and often nodular. Exostosis of the orbit is a very slow-growing tumour, sometimes lasting for years before pro- ducing noticeable symptoms. It is in itself painless, but may induce pain by pressure on nerves or other structures. The direction of gTowth is chiefly into the orbit and towards the surface, but extension backwards and upwards is by no means unknown, and occasionally in- vasion of the intracranial cavity takes place. Nothing certain is known as to the etiology of these tumours. It is not improbable that they grow from residues of embryonic cartilage. The diagnosis is, as a rule, easy; but if the exostosis is at the inner, or inner and upper part of the orbit, it may be mistaken for a distended ethmoidal or frontal sinus, over which a shell of bone still remains. The latter, how- ever, is not so hard as an exostosis, and a sense of fluctuation can nearly always be obtained. If necessary, puncture or attempted puncture should be employed to clear up any doubt. Hyperostosis of the orbital walls is extremely rare. It may lead to great distortion of the bony walls, and the shape of the orbit may thus be entirely altered. Lipoma of the orbit has been described, but is very unusual, if indeed it ever occurs as a primary growth. Its characters do not differ from those of fatty tumours elsewhere, and the symptoms to which it gives rise result from mechanical displacement of orbital structures, or pressure upon them. Enchondroma of the orbit is almost unknown. The few cases which have been reported are open to question, and are certainly not examples of pure enchondroma. Fibroma of the orbit—that is, a benign fibrous tumour—is very rare. A few cases have been placed on record, but there is generally a suspicion that such growths belong to the fibro- sarcomata, and are therefore malignant. Plexiform neuroma of the orbit is also very unusual, although this form of new growth in the eyelids is not so uncommon. The growth, which is probably congenital, occupies the upper and outer part of the orbit in the neighbourhood of the lacrymal gland, whence it may spread extensively into the orbit and to the temporal fossa. It forms a slowly-growing, painless mass, which may be so firm to the touch as to simu- late sarcoma or carcinoma. Its diagnosis with- out an exploratory incision is difficult. After removal of the mass a further growth may develop in the same side. Myxoma of the sheath of the optic nerve is another of the benign tumours arising in the orbit. This form of growth is met with chiefly in children and young adults. It develops slowly, generally quite painlessly, and at an early stage gives rise to defect of sight, and later to its complete loss. The eyeball is pro- truded directly forwards, or forwards and slightly downwards, and its movements are little, if at all, impaired. These two features generally enable an optic-nerve tumour to be distinguished from other orbital growths. Difficulty in dia- gnosis will arise, however, in those rare in- stances in which a sarcoma develops within the funnel formed by the recti muscles. Cystic Tumours of the Orbit. — The most frequent are the congenital dermoid cysts, which result from the invagination of a portion of the epidermis at an early period of development. Like dermoid tumours in other parts of the body, their walls have a structure similar to that of normal skin, the epidermis being placed internally. The cyst wall possesses the usual appendages of skin—namely, hair and sebaceous glands, and sometimes sweat glands. The con- tents of these cysts are composed of accumulated secretion from the skin glands, desquamated epithelium, and usually large numbers of hairs. Occasionally teeth have been found attached to the wall, or free in the cavity. In some in- stances, instead of a sebaceous material, the cyst contains an oily or honey-like fluid. These tumours, which are generally unilocular, are situated in the anterior part of the orbit, most commonly near the nasal wall. They gi-ow slowly, and may attain a considerable size. They produce no symptoms, except such as are due to displacement of orbital structures. Their tendency is to protrude anteriorly, and they can usually be easily seen and felt through the skin of the eyelid as round, slightly movable, elastic growths. The diagnosis is not, as a rule, difficult, but in infants the variety of tumour to be next described may be mistaken for a dermoid cyst. This error in diagnosis, if it led to operative treatment, would be very serious. Meningocele or encephalocele of the orbit is a congenital cystic tiunour, the wall of which is formed by a protrusion of dura mater into the orbit. The sac thus formed may contain only cerebro-spinal fluid (meningocele), or in addition brain substance (encephalocele). This variety of tumour is most frequently situated at the inner upper part of the orbit, the aperture through which the hernia occurs corresponding to the suture between the ethmoid and frontal bones. The growth is fluctuating, covered by healthy skin, and by pressure can be reduced in volume, though such pressure may give rise to unpleasant cerebral symptoms. If large and superficial, it shows cardiac and respiratory oscillations, as do the unclosed fontanelles. Orbital meningocele is usually unilateral, and rapidly increases in size; the subjects of it seldom live many weeks.187 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE The features which chiefly distinguish menin- gocele from a dermoid cyst are its firm attach- ment to the bony wall of the orbit, the existence of an aperture in the bone which can often be detected by the finger, the effect of pressure on the tumour, and the pulsation transmitted to it from the brain. A careful puncture of the cyst under strictest precautions as to sepsis would finally settle a doubtful diagnosis. A rare form of congenital cyst of the orbit occurs in association with microphthalmos or apparent anophthalmos. The cyst is placed in or immediately behind the lower eyelid, is filled with a thin serous fluid, and is connected with the rudimentary eyeball by a thin hollow pedicle, or a broad attachment by which the two cavities communicate. Retinal structures can usually be found in the cyst wall, and it is thought that these cysts are anomalous develop- ments from the embryonic tissue which normally forms the eyeball. Parasitic Cysts.—Two varieties are met with : the cystic form of tinea echinococcus (hydatid), and of tinea solium (cysticercus). Hydatid cyst of the orbit is by no means common. Indeed, compared with other parts of the body, and especially the liver, the orbit is very rarely the seat of this entozoon. It is most frequent in the young, and in the male sex. There are no symptoms which clearly distinguish this disease from other deeply - seated and progressive tumours in the orbit. Pain is often severe, and there are, both in the extra-ocular and intra- ocular vessels, signs of obstruction to the circulation. In doubtful cases the cyst should be punctured and some of its contents drawn off. The fluid of an echinococcus cyst is watery, clear, and contains a large proportion of chloride of sodium, and a mere trace of albumen. Hooklets may be, but are not constantly, found on microscopic examination. The peculiar laminated character of the true cyst-wall after removal clears up any doubt as to its nature, even in cases, not uncommon, in which no daughter cysts or scolices can be found. Cysticercus of the orbit is extremely rare. In the few recorded cases the tumour has developed in the anterior part of the orbit, and has presented the ordinary characters of a cystic growth. Two other rare forms of cyst of the orbit may be referred to—namely, hygromata, which are thought to arise in the bursse of the ocular muscles, and blood cysts. The latter are, in some instances at least, dermoid cysts into which hfemorrhage has occurred. The cystic tumours of the orbit are all benign growths, and rarely dangerous to life. Some forms may extend through the walls of the orbit to the intracranial cavity, and in this way lead to a fatal issue. Suppuration in an orbital cyst may be followed by septic menin- gitis and death. Vascular Tumours of the Orbit.—The vascular new growths met with in the orbit are capillary and cavernous angioma, and lymphangioma.^ The latter variety is excessively rare; about four undoubted cases have been recorded. Capillary angioma or njevus is a congenital growth which apparently does not originate in the orbit, but extends to it from the skin of the lids or face. It is sometimes associated with hypertrophy of fatty tissue, and to such a combination the term angioma lipomatodes has been given. Cavernous angioma visually originates in the orbit. The tumour is often deeply seated, of slow growth, and forms a mass which, though soft at first, becomes much harder in the later stages from an increase in the connective tissue in and around it. Vision is not often affected, but blindness due to atrophy of the optic nerve is occasionally met with. Pain is not a prominent symptom. The sexes are equally liable, and the disease may appear at any age. The etiology of cavernous angioma is doubtful. It is probably sometimes congenital. In a few instances there has been a definite history of injury preceding the development of the tumour. It is frequently, but not invariably, situated within the funnel formed by the recti muscles, and, like a tumour of the optic nerve, displaces the eyeball directly forwards. The tumour is often encapsuled, and hence easy of removal. In addition to the ordinary signs of orbital tumour, cavernous angiomata present certain characteristics. They are variable in volume, diminishing tinder pressure, and increasing when there is venous obstruction, as in crying or stooping. They often show spontaneous pulsa- tion, but have no bruit or thrill. As the tumour increases in size it extends forwards, and may become visible as a bluish mass through the skin, and dilated vessels may appear in the eyelids. Treatment of Tumours of the Orbit.—Complete removal of the tumour is the only treatment applicable to malignant gi-owths. Unfortu- nately, in many cases of sarcoma and carcinoma the growth is either not primarily orbital, or has extended beyond the limits of the orbit before the patient comes under observation, and its complete removal is then impossible. Small encapsuled growths, and tumours of the optic nerve, can occasionally be removed without sacrificing the eyeball. Two methods may be employed to attain this result. In the first, an incision is made through the conjunctiva on the temporal side of the eyeball, the external rectus muscle separated from the globe, and the eye rotated forcibly inwards. After removal of the growth the eye is rolled back into position and the rectus muscle reattached. In the second (or Kronlein's) method, an osteoplastic ^ Aneurysmal formations are considered under a separate heading.ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 188 flap is made of the outer wall of the orbit, the periosteum carefully separated from the bone and then incised, exposing the orbital contents. After taking away the new growth the flap is replaced. In all cases in which a malignant tumour cannot be satisfactorily removed without sacri- ficing the globe, excision of the eye should be first performed. If the tumour is then found to be extensive and to involve the periosteum or bone, the whole of the orbital contents should be removed, and chloride of zinc paste applied to the orbital walls after bleeding has ceased, in order to destroy any portions of tumour which have been left behind. In spite of such vigorous methods recurrence is by no means uncommon, and a second, or even a third, operation may be necessary. Exostosis of the orbit frequently admits of removal, and no other treatment of the tumour is of any avail. If the growth is large, removal of the eyeball may be necessary as a preliminary step. The operation is always diflficult and tedious, and by no means free from risk. If attached to the roof of the orbit, attempted removal of the growth may be followed by fatal meningitis. Of sixteen cases, in which the tumour sprang from the roof of the orbit and in which operation was performed, six were fatal (Berlin). In operating, the exostosis should be exposed, the periosteum incised and carefully peeled off, and the base or neck of the growth imcovered. A chisel is then used to the base, numerous small cuts being made, initil the bony mass becomes loosened. In some cases in which the bone is extremely hard, the base of the tumour may be first drilled by a dental drill in several places, and separation completed by using a chisel. If the tumour be pedunculated, its removal is usually easy. In cases in which, for any reason, removal of the tumour cannot be attempted, and in which there is much exoph- thalmos, it may be advisable to excise the eye- ball for the relief of pain. Non-malignant solid tumours of the orbit— for example, lipoma—should be extirpated with as little disturbance of the surrounding struc- tures as possible. Dermoid cysts and parasitic cysts are best treated by complete removal. In dealing with dermoids, every endeavour should be made to dissect out the cyst completely and without opening it. Great difficulty is experienced in removing a collapsed cyst, and if portions of the wall are left, recurrent growths will form. Cystic tumours should be cut down upon at their most prominent part, and every endeavour should be made to avoid injury to important structures, such as the ocular muscles or nerves. The treatment of cavernous angiomata should, whenever possible, consist of complete extirpa- tion. In many instances, especially if encap- suled, tbe whole of the new growth can be removed. When the tumour is too extensive for removal, repeated electrolysis is useful, and eventually induces considerable diminution in the size of the tumour, and a gradual decrease in the displacement of the globe and other structures. Pulsating Exophthalmos.—The term pulsa- ting exophthalmos is applied to a group of cases in which protrusion of the eyeball and pulsation of the orbital structures are the most noticeable features. In their clinical characters, all cases included under this heading have much in common, but in their pathology they exhibit considerable variation. The name should not be applied to cases of tumour of the orbit in which pulsation can be detected. The general features of pulsating exophthal- mos are as follows:—The eyeball is protruded directly forwards, or forwards and downwards; the conjunctiva and eyelids are swollen, and their blood-vessels dilated and tortuous. The exophthalmos is sometimes so extreme that the eyelids cannot be closed. If the hand is placed upon the protruding structures, distinct pulsa- tion, and frequently a thrill, are felt, and if the ear is applied, a soft blowing sound is heard. Not infrequently a compressible pulsating mass can be detected near the inner angle of the orbit, between the eyeball and the upper wall. The ocular movements are restricted, and oc- casionally there is partial or complete anaesthesia of the eyeball and other structures supplied by the first division of the trigeminal nerve. On ophthalmoscopic examination it is usual to find the retinal arteries narrowed and the veins greatly distended, tortuous, or even varicose, and sometimes pulsating. Occasionally the optic disc is swollen, and haemorrhages from the retinal vessels are visible ; in some cases there is atrophy of the optic disc. The subjective symptoms are pain, often severe and persistent, and a continual noise, which is usually very distressing to the patient. The noise is variously described as "humming," or "roaring," and is likened to the sound of escaping steam or falling water. Vertigo is also a frequent symptom. Failure of vision may or may not be present. If the protrusion of the eyeball is extreme, infiltration and ulceration of the cornea are likely to ensue. By firm pressure the exophthalmos can be diminished, and sometimes the eyeball restored to its normal position; but as soon as the pressure is removed, the globe again becomes prominent. Compression of the common carotid artery on the same side leads to recession of the globe, and arrest of the pulsation and thrill. The noise noticed by the patient is also stopped or greatly lessened. Two groups of cases of pulsating exophthalmos are described, the onset and course of which ex- hibit some differences. In the spontaneous or189 ORBIT, DISEASES OF THE idiopathic variety the onset is usually sudden, and ushered in by severe pain, followed by a roaring or hissing noise, which persists with increasing vehemence. In a short time, varying from a few hours to a few days, exophthalmos develops, accompanied by pulsation, thrill, and perhaps failure of vision. In the traumatic cases the onset is more gradual, the symptoms appearing after a severe head injury, often with fracture of the base of the skull, from which the patient may have been unconscious for hours, or even days. The noise may be the earliest symptom complained of, and is followed by exophthalmos and other signs. The condition is usually fully developed within six or eight weeks of the injury. In cases, whether idiopathic or traumatic, which progress rapidly, the swelling of the lids and conjunctiva may be so great as to suggest orbital cellulitis. Spontaneous pulsating exoph- thalmos is much more common in females and in middle age. The traumatic variety is more frequent in the male sex, and may occur at any age. The pathology of pulsating exophthalmos is much less familiar than are its clinical char- acters. Comparatively few cases have been ex- amined after death, and in some of these no adequate explanation of the symptoms was found. The lesion which has been most fre- quently discovered post-mortem is rupture of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. As a result of this the blood-stream escapes into the venous sinus, and the latter, as well as its communicating veins, become greatly distended and pulsating, forming an arterio-venous aneurysm. In spontaneous cases the rupture occurs in an artery with very de- generative walls, or aneurysmal dilatation and thinning. In the traumatic variety the injury to the blood-vessel is inflicted by a splinter from a fractured bone, or by a bullet or other missile which penetrates the skull. Other conditions which have been found post-mortem are aneu- rysm of the carotid artery in the cavernous sinus, aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery either before its passage through the sphenoid bone or in its orbital portion, and thrombosis of the cavernous sinus and ophthalmic veins. Spontaneous cure of pulsating exophthalmos has occurred, but is quite exceptional. The disease is usually progressive, and, unless arrested, leads to a fatal termination after an interval varying from a few weeks to two or three years. Death results from complications, such as repeated haemorrhage (chiefly in trau- matic cases) or from cerebral lesions. The diagnosis of pulsating exophthalmos presents no difficulty; but it is by no means easy to distinguish with certainty the different varieties. The most important diagnosis to make is between a purely vascular lesion and a pulsating tumour of the orbit. This is especi- ally needful in the case of malignant growths. Such difficulty arises only in instances of slowly- developing exophthalmos which is clearly not traumatic. In cases of tumour the protrusion of the globe is less frequently straightforwards, pulsation is less noticeable, and as a rule no humming or other noise is heard by the patient. Moreover, the eifect of external pressure or of compression of the carotid artery upon the exophthalmos is much less than in aneurysm. If the tumour can be reached with the finger it is firmer and more resistant than true pulsating exophthalmos. Treatment.—The amelioration of symptoms induced by temporary compression of the carotid artery is a clear indication as to the treatment of pulsating exophthalmos. The two most useful surgical measures are (a) compression and {b) ligature of the common carotid artery. Either digital or instrumental pressure may be employed. The former has proved the more effectual, but there are often difficulties in its execution. In successful cases treated by com- pression, improvement has begun about the third day, but the duration of treatment has varied from four to eighteen days. It is only in the idiopathic variety that compression of the artery offers a reasonable chance of success, and even in this variety the results of treatment are not very encouraging. Keller reports one success in seven cases. Ligation of the common carotid artery has given better results than any other procedure, and in successful cases the cure has been com- plete in six or seven weeks. The records of this operation during recent years are very en- couraging, and improved surgical methods have robbed it of nearly all its former risks, such as wound infection. In a small proportion of cases, however, disturbance of cerebral functions and death have followed the ligature of the carotid. As a rule, the effect of ligation is immediate and very marked. The pulsation and bruit, and the subjective noises disappear, and the exophthalmos and swelling of lids and conjunctiva steadily become less. In some instances a return of all the symptoms is noted a few days, or as long as one month, after ligature of the artery. When this occurs, the common carotid of the opposite side, or the external carotid of the same side, should be tied. Other methods of treatment which have been employed in pulsating exophthalmos are re- peated electrolysis and the injection of coagulat- ing fluids. The latter plan is unsafe, and has given no satisfactory results; and electrolysis has proved of little vahie in true arterio-venous aneurysm. Intermittent Exophthalmos. — Under this name cases have been described in which the eyeball becomes proptosed on stooping or in any way obstructing the return of venous blood from the orbit. The condition has also beenORBIT, DISEASES OF THE 190 termed "alternating enophthalmos and exoph- thalmos," and by French writers, "exophtalmie a volonte." This unusual aiTection occurs chiefly in the young, and often develops sud- denly. When once established the exoph- thalmos can always be induced by stooping. When the head is erect, the position of the eye- ball may be normal, but in the majority of instances there is a varying degi'ee of enoph- thalmos. The movements of the globe are un- restricted, and vision is usually unimpaired. The pathology of this condition is still im- perfectly understood. As the exophthalmos can be induced by compression of the jugular vein, and as dilated veins are occasionally visible through the skin of the lids, a varicose condition of the orbital veins is assumed to be present. In some recorded cases a varicose tumour could be felt in the orbit. The enoph- thalmos generally present indicates shrinking of the cellular tissue of the orbit. So long as the exophthalmos remains inter- mittent no treatment is necessary. The patient soon learns to avoid such positions or muscular efforts as induce proptosis, or to prevent its development by pressure over the eyeball. Orchi-.—In compound words orchi- (Gr. °PX'5> ^ testicle) means relating to the testicle; e.g. orchialgia (neuralgic pain in the testicle), orchidoncus (a tumour of the testicle), etc. Orchidectomy. — Excision of the testicle or castration. See Scrotum and Tes- ticle, Diseases of {Excision of Testicle). O rc h i d i n. — A proprietary preparation made from the testicle, and believed to act as a nerve tonic. Orchidopexy or Orchidor- rha.phy.—Fixation of the testicle by sutur- ing it to neighbouring parts. Orchidotherapy.—The use of orchitic extracts in the treatment of disease. See Opotherapy. Orchidotomy.—Incision of the testicle. Orchitis.—Inflammation of the testicle. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Inflam- mation of the Testicle). See also Mumps {Com- jdications, Metastatic Orchitis); Syphilis (Vis- ceral, Genito-urinary); Syphilis {Syphilis in Children, Inflammation of Testes); Undulant Fever {Symptoms, Sexual System); Urethra, Diseases of {Gonorrhoea, Complications). Ore in.—A substance obtained from various species of lichens {Roccella, Lecanora, Vario- laria), having a dark colour (Lat. orcus, Pluto or death), and a formula of CeH3(OH)2CH3; it is used as a test for glycuronic acid or xylose in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes IN {Aromatic Substances). Orexi ne. — Phenyldihydroquinazolin hy- drochloride (Cj^Hj2N2HCl), given in doses of 4 to 7 grains to increase the appetite (Gr. ope^ts, a longing or appetite); the tannate is used for the same purpose and in sea-sickness. Orezza.. See Balneology {France, Corsica). Org'an.—An individual part or combina- tion of parts of the body, performing a piece of physiological work, known as a function, and regarded from the point of view of physiology rather than of anatomy; an organism is an assemblage or aggregation of organs. Org^an of Corti. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear, Membranous Cochlea). Org-an of Giraides. — The para- didymis, a rudimentary body lying above the globus major of the epididymis. Org^an of Golg^i. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Receptor Mechan- isms, Muscle Sense). Orgfan of JaCObSOn.—A rudimentary organ in the septum nasi a little above and in front of the recessus naso-palatinus. Org^an of Rosenmulier. — The parovarium or epoophoron lying in the broad ligament of the uterus; Rosenmulier himself called it the corpus conicum. See Generation, Female Organs of {Parovarium). Org^anOg^enesiS. — The formation of the various organs of the body; that part of embryology which deals with the development of the individual organs. Org^anotiierapy.—The use, as medi- cines, of the organic extracts, e.g. thyroid extract, suprarenal extract, etc.; opotherapy. See Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment of {Organotherapjy). Organs. See Generation, Female Organs of ; etc. Orgl'asm. — A state of violent activity, with turgescence, of a part of the body or set of organs, and especially that associated with the acme of sexual excitement in coitus (Gr. opyaetv, to swell). Oriental Boil or Sore. See Fur- UNCULUS Orientalis. Orientation. — Literally, this term is used to express the arranging of something so as to face the East; in medicine, it is more commonly used to mean the arrangement of structures {e.g. embryos, microscopic sections, etc.) relatively to the points of the compass or to other parts or structures; adjustment;ORIENTATION 191 occasionally it signifies the position of the foetus (French writers). Orifice.—An aperture or opening; e.g. anal orifice, eustachian orifice, mitral orifice, vaginal orifice, etc. The name orificial surgery has been given to operations on the body orifices, especially the anus and urogenital orifices. Orig'a.num.—A herb belonging to the Labiatfe (Wild Marjoram or Sweet Marjoram), having a pleasant fragrance; it is popularly employed for sprains, bruises, and rheumatic pains. Orizabi n.—Convolvulin, Cg^Hj^Onj. Ornithodorus.—A variety of tick be- lieved to cause ixodiasis or tick-fever in some parts of Africa. OroySl Fever. — Carrion's disease or verruga peruana. See Verrugo Peruana. OrthO-.—In compound words ortho- (Gr. op^ds, straight) means straight, true, or normal; e.g. ortho-dontia (making straight the teeth, or the correction of dental irregularities), ortho- phosphates (the common phosphates), etc. Orthodiagraphy.—A clinical method of examination in which the outlines of the heart are determined with accuracy by means of X-rays ; the result is termed an orthodiagram, and the instrument an orthodiagraph. See article by Walsham and Dally in Brit. Med. Journ., p. 651, September 14, 1907. Orthoform.—An anaesthetic and anti- septic powder, being the methyl ester of paramido-meta-hydroxybenzoic acid; it is given in doses of 7 to 15 grains. Orthognathy.—The condition of being straight-jawed, the gnathic angle being between 83° and 90°. See Anthropology. Orthopaedics.—The science of the correction of deformities, especially of those which are congenital, as seen in children (Gr. opSds, straight or regular, rrats, a child). See Deformities ; Palate ; etc. Orthopnoea. — That type of difficult breathing which can be overcome by the erect posture. See Asphyxia {Definitions); Dyspncea. Orthoptic. — Relating to normal bin- ocular vision. See Strabismus {Orthoptic Treat- ment). Orthotonus.—That form of tetanus or cramp in which the body lies straight and rigid. See Tetanus {Clinical Features). Oryza Sativa.—The seeds of this plant constitute rice, from which ground rice {Oryzoe Farina) is obtained. Os.—A bone or the mouth, e.g. the os pubis, OS calcis, OS externum uteri, etc. Osazones. — The crystalline compound formed by the monosaccharids and phenylhy- drazin. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Food-Stuffs, Carbohydrates). Os Calcis. See Ankle-Joint, Region of. Injuries {Fractures of Os Calcis); Ankle-Joint, Region of {Operations, Excision of Os Calcis). Oscheo-.—In compound words oscheo- (Gr. ocrxtov, scrotum) means relating to the scrotum, e.g. oscheoplasty (plastic surgery of the scrotum), etc. Osiander'S Sign. —A sign of early pregnancy consisting in the palpation of pulsa- ting vessels in the vaginal fornices, especially in the anterior one. Osier's Disease. — Polycythaemia cyanotica, or that morbid condition in which there is excess of red blood corpuscles, enlarge- ment of the spleen, chronic cyanosis, and con- stipation, without any sign of disease of the lungs, heart, or kidneys. OsmiC Acid.—The tetroxide of osmium (OsO^), employed in histology for the staining of fat and as a fixing agent; in medicine it has been used in neuralgia, sciatica, etc. Osmidrosis. — A morbid state of the skin characterised by the secretion of foul- smelling sweat, bromidrosis. See Skin, Diseases OF Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Bromidrosis). Osmo-.—In f compound words osmo- (Gr. dcr/xiy, smell) means relating to odours, e.g. an osmometer or instrument for the measurement of the acuteness of smell, etc. Osmosis.—The passage of fluids through a porous septum or organic membrane ; diffusion (Gr. a(o-/xds, push or thrust). Os Tribasilare.—A single bone formed by the premature ossification and union of the bones of the basis cranii; it is found in some cases of osteogenesis imperfecta. See Pregnancy, Intra-uterine DiSEASES^(i^ce!;a^ Bone Diseases), Os Uteri.—The opening of the cervical canal of the uterus into the vagina {os uteri externum) or into the cavity of the body of the uterus (os uteri internum). See Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus, Cervix); Labour, Physiology of {Passages); Labour, Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages). Osphy-.—In compound words osphy- (Gr. ocrc^us, the loin) means relating to the lumbar region; e.g. osphyalgia or lumbago, osphyocele192 OSPHY- (lumbar hernia), osphyomyelitis (inflammation of the lumbar part of the spinal cord). OSSa-gfen. — A proprietary preparation said to be a lime salt of bone marrow, recom- mended in cases of rickets ; dose, 30-60 grains. Ossein.—The organic base of bone, con- vertible into gelatin by boiling. Osseous.—Bony; e.g. the osseous meatus of the ear, the osseous labyrinth. Ossicle.—A small bone or ossiculum ; e.g. the auditory ossicles or small bones of the middle ear, the Wormian ossicles or epactal bones of the cranial sutures, etc. See Ear, Examination of {Tympanic Cavity); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration ; Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Hearing, Middle Ear). Ossiculectomy and Ossiculo- tomy.—Excision and incision of the auditory ossicles. Ossification. — Bone - formation. See Muscles, Diseases of {Inflammatory Disease, Myositis Ossificans); Physiology, Tissues {Bone, Development). Osteitis. — Inflammation of bone. See Bone, Diseases of {Bacterial and Trophic); Chest, Deformities op {Osteitis Deformans); Deformities {Bow-Legs); Head {Skull in Osteitis Deformans); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Ar- thritis ; Spine, Surgical Affections of {Osteitis Deformans) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Osteitis and Osteomyelitis) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Osteitis). OsteO-.—In compound words osteo- (Gr. ocrriov, a bone) means relating to or belonging to bone or a bone, e.g. the osteoc7-a7iiu7n or ossified cranium (as distinguished from the chrondrocranium). Osteoarthritis.—Inflammation of the bones entering into the composition of a joint. See Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis. See also Joints, Diseases of {Arthritis Deformans); and Osteo-Arthropathies. Osteo-Arthropathies. Osteopathies . . . . . .192 Arthropathies . . . . .192 Pulmonary Osteo-Arthropathy . .194 See also Acromegaly ; Deformities {Hallux Valgus); Hand {SJmpe in Pulmonary Osteo- Arthropathy); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Arthritis Deformans); Joints, Diseases of {Syphilitic Osteo-Arthritis); Joints, Diseases op {Arthritis Deforma7is); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Ar- thritis ; Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Arthritis Defoi-mans). The relationship between disorders of bones and affections of the nervous system was noted by Mitchell in 1831, but the condition was little studied until Charcot drew attention to it some years later. Trophic disorders, both of bones and joints, occur in varying degrees in several diseases of the nervous system, but notably in the course of locomotor ataxy, and the lesions occurring in this affection may be conveniently described as a general type of the disorder. The bones and joints may suff'er separately or together, and accordingly are termed osteo- pathies, arthropathies, and osteo-arthropathies. Osteopathies.—In locomotor ataxy changes frequently take place in the nutrition of the bones which cause them to fracture with the very slightest mechanical violence, or even spontaneously. The fracture is usually quite painless, but is often accompanied by considerable oedema of the neighbouring tissues ; occasionally lightning pains appear to be specially prevalent in the region before the bone fractures, but otherwise there are no premonitory symptoms. Union, which generally takes place with the usual rapidity of other fractures, is often accompanied by an excessive amount of callus—a fact which has been explained by the mechanical friction to which the painless ends of the fracture are apt to be subjected; marked deformity of the limb, due to displacement of the bones, is also another common sequel. The lower limbs are more frequently fractured than the upper, and women appear to suffer more often than men (Marie). Morbid Anatomy.—The bones are lighter than normal; to the naked eye they often have a worm-eaten appearance, and on section the medullary canal is found to be increased in size at the expense of the bone around it. There may be some irregular deposits of new bone taking place at the same time. Microscopically the Haversian canals are dilated, and absorption of bone is proceeding in their vicinity. Regnard has shown by chemical analysis that there is a decrease in the inorganic constituents of the bone, especially of the lime salts, and an increase in the organic constituents, especially fat. Arthropathies.—Trophic lesions of the joints as they occur in locomotor ataxy were fii'st described by Charcot, and hence they are frequently spoken of as "Charcot's joints." The onset of tabetic arthropathies is usually acute; the joint becomes distended with fluid in a few hours, and generally, though by no means constantly, there is no pain and no fever. The distension of the joint is often accompanied by swelling of the parts around, and movements of the limb are much impaired. In other instances the onset is more gradual, and extensive disorganisation of the joint may193 OSTEO-ARTHROPATHIES take place without the occurrence of any acute symptoms. The fluid tends to subside in a few days or many weeks, and, in disappearing, it leaves very various conditions behind it; in the more favourable cases the joint appears to have suffered but little, but in others the articular surfaces are partially or wholly destroyed. The liability of the different joints to be attacked varies considerably; Charcot placed their frequency in the order of knee, shoulder, elbow, hip, and wrist, but subsequent statistics show that the hip-joint must be given a con- siderably higher place in the list. The small joints of the hand are but seldom affected. Clinically, an atrophic and a hypertrophic form can be recognised. In the atrophic form atrophy of the bones is the predominating feature, while in the hypertrophic variety new deposits of bone take place round the joint as in rheumatoid arthritis. As was shown by Kredel, the atrophic form is more commonly found in the ball and socket joints (hip and shoulder), and the hypertrophic in the hinge joints (knee and elbow). Morbid Anatomy.—The fluid which distends the joint is usually clear; occasionally it may contain blood, especially if the arthropathy is complicated by an intracapsular fracture, which is not a very uncommon occurrence; suppura- tion never occurs unless, of course, the joint is in some way accidentally infected from without. In cases of any standing the articular surfaces are greatly modified. In the atrophic form the head of the bone often almost or entirely dis- appears, and, the articular cavity undergoing similar changes, all formation of the joint becomes lost; in the hypertrophic form the articular cartilage disappears, leaving under- neath porous cancellous bone (only rarely is it eburnated, as in rheumatoid arthritis), while at the margins of the joint there are prominent irregular bony outgrowths. The ligaments and capsule of the joints are lax, so that an abnormally free movement of the joint can be obtained, and the internal ligaments frequently share in the destructive process and disappear. In some cases the irregular ossification round the joints extends to the capsule and external ligaments. The synovial membrane is thickened and adherent to parts around; it may be studded with villous outgrowths, and in many cases it is partially destroyed. If an intra - articular fracture exists, as already mentioned may be the case, the condition is further complicated by the presence of loose or partially detached fragments of bone within the joint. OsTEO-Arthropathies.—The co-existence of bone and joint lesions is well exemplified by the lesions of the vertebral column as they occur in locomotor ataxy, and also better still by the " tabetic foot." VOL. VII The vertebral lesions are rare; they are characterised by spontaneous fracture of the bodies of one or more vertebrae associated at the same time with changes in the inter- vertebral articulations. The lumbar region of the spine is the part most often aff'ected, and a painless angular curvature develops, which, however, but seldom damages the spinal cord. The tabetic foot varies in its shape according to the different displacements of the tarsal bones. One of the commonest forms is the "flat foot," with thickening on the dorsum or instep, as described by Charcot; in other cases the long axis of the foot deviates outwards or inwards; sometimes the arch of the foot is raised. In a case recorded by Lunn there was great deformity of the plantar arch, the tarsal bones in front of the astragalus standing out very prominently on the dorsum of each foot. Sometimes the deformity is further complicated by an arthropathy of the ankle-joint, and as Targett has well shown, no form of dislocation can be considered peculiar to the tabetic foot. The changes in the bones of the tabetic foot belong to the atrophic type ; the bones are light and porous, with little tendency to fresh de- posits, and their articular cartilages gradually disappear as in the larger joints. The pi'esence of a perforating ulcer may greatly modify the appearances of the bones by the secondary in- fection which it is apt to set up. Arthropathies in Syringomyelia.—-In syringo- myelia changes occur in the joints which are almost identical with those already described in tabes, but they generally run a more chronic course, and the upper limbs are more liable to be affected than the lower. Mode of Production of Osteo-Arthropathies.— It is now generally conceded that osteo-arthro- pathies occurring in locomotor ataxy and syringomyelia are directly dependent upon the lesions of the nervous system. Volkman's idea that the joint affections in tabes were due to traumatism, owing to the irregular movements of the limbs, became un- tenable when it was known that the joints were frequently affected in the pre-ataxic stage of the disease; likewise Striimpell's theory that the lesions were syphilitic fell to the ground when their prevalence in syringomyelia, which has no special syphilitic antecedents, became an acknowledged fact. The estabhshment of "Charcot's joints" as a distinct disease apart from rheumatoid arthritis caused some hesita- tion, but a careful comparison soon made it clear that Charcot's claim for this separation was justified. The main points in which the two diseases differ are in distribution, mode of onset, presence of pain, and in the rapidity with which a joint may be destroyed. Tabetic arthropathies tend to affect single joints, while rheumatoid arthritis tends to affect several small joints. A Committee of the Clinical 13194 OSTEO-ARTHROPATHIES Society of London, appointed to examine this question, found that in 66 cases of tabetic arthropathy a single joint only was affected in 41 ; in 19 cases two joints were affected, and in only 6 were more than two diseased. The mode of onset of Charcot's joint is acute, painless, and rapid, often leading to advanced disorganisation of the joint within a few weeks; in rheumatoid arthritis the onset and progress are nearly always both gradual and accompanied by pain. The morbid anatomy of the two affections is in some cases closely alike in its appearances, but the eburnation of bone beneath the corroded articular cartilages, which is generally so prominent a feature in rheuma- toid arthritis, is nearly always absent in tabetic arthropathy, the bone in the latter being porous and devoid of any sclerosis beneath its cartilages. As to the exact way in which diseases of the nervous system produce trophic changes in bones and joints, there is but little known. The fact, however, that locomotor ataxy is the condition with which the lesions in question are most commonly associated, suggests at once that it is the sensory fibres which are primarily at fault, and this is borne out by the morbid anatomy of syringomyelia, and further narrowed by the facts that in the latter case the sensa- tions for pain and temperature are frequently the only ones affected, and also that the nerve roots and peripheral fibres are not involved as they are in tabes. As to how lesions of the sensory fibres modify the nutrition of the bones and joints nothing definite is known : it may be that there are special trophic nerves associated with them, or the changes may possibly be produced by the vasomotor fibres ; the motor cells of the anterior cornua probably take no important part in the matter, since no lesions comparable to those with which we are now concerned occur when these cells are definitely diseased as, for instance, in infantile paralysis and progressive muscular atrophy. Pitres and Vaillard found chan ges in the nutritive nerve of the bone, but it seems fairly obvious that lesions of peripheral nerves cannot be considered in any sense a constant cause, since in a disease so common as peri- pheral neuritis lesions of joints comparable in any way to those of locomotor ataxy or syringo- myelia are exceedingly rare. Trophic lesions of bones and joints, as already stated, occur to some extent in other diseases than those already described. In leprosy, osteo-arthropathies have been de- scribed by Heiberg which have many of the characteristics of the osteo-arthropathies of tabes, viz., swelling and laxness of the joint capsules with wearing away and atrophy of the ends of the bones, and the same observer has also discovered a condition which closely resembles the "tabetic foot." In general paralysis of the insane the bones become brittle and are easily broken, but it is very doubtful whether the changes can be put down to any direct trophic influence; true arthropathies, when present, are probably of tabetic origin, since the relationship between tabes and general paralysis is such a close one. In infantile paralysis the chief characteristic is arrested growth of bones. In peripheral neuritis chronic changes may take place in and around the joints, which lead to thickening and occasionally to anchylosis, but—with the possible exception of those oc- curring in leprosy which may be of peripheral origin—they are not in any degree comparable to the lesions of tabes and syringomyelia. Arthropathies have occasionally been described as a result of hemiplegia, and they may also sometimes be found as a complication of Pott's disease and injuries of the spine. Pulmonary Ostbo-Arthropathy. — Changes in the bones and joints are frequently found in cases of pulmonary tuberculosis and other chronic chest affections, such as empyema, bronchiectasis, and abscess of the lung. Marie first drew attention to these conditions in the course of his writings on acromegaly. In a typical case the fingers are greatly enlarged, especially at the last phalanges which are very much swollen, the heads of the metacarpal bones are slightly enlarged, and also the wrists. The feet may be enlarged in a similar manner. The significance of these changes is at present doubtful. Godlee considers that in many in- stances there is no enlargement of the bones at all, basing his conclusions upon Rontgen ray photographs and also on the fact that patients sometimes rapidly recover when their chest complaint is cured. In other cases erosion of articular cartilages and subperiosteal thickening of the bones have been found, but here Thorburn has shown that such changes are probably often due to local tuberculosis. OsteoblclSt.—A bone-forming cell. See Physiology, Tissues {Bone, Development). Osteochondritis. — Inflammation of bone and cartilage, such as occurs at the junction of the diaphysis and epiphysis of a long bone in foetal syphilis. Osteochondroma. — A tumour con- sisting partly of bone and partly of cartilage. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Neoplasms). OsteOClSlSiS.—The fracturing of a bone in order to correct a deformity. See Deformities {Bow-Legs, Operative Measures). Osteoclast. — A multinucleated con- nective-tissue cell which carries on a burrowing process or has an eroding influence upon bone; also, an instrument for fracturing bone (in osteoclasis, q.v.).195 OSTEOCOPIC PAIN OsteOCOpiC Pain.—Severe pain in the bones (Gr. oo-reov, bone, and koVos, a beating) in inflammatory states, usually of syphilitic origin. See Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones and Joints). Osteodentine. See Teeth {Diseases of the Pulp, Hard Formations). Osteodiastasis.— Separation of the epiphysis of a bone from the diaphysis without true fracture. Osteofibroma.—A tumour composed partly of bone and partly of fibrous tissue. Osteog-enesiS. — Bone formation or development. Osteogrenesis Imperfecta. See Pregnancy, Intra-utbrine Diseases {Foetal Bone Diseases). OsteolOgry. — That part of anatomy which deals with the structure of bone and the characters of the parts of the skeleton. Osteoma.—A bony tumour. See Bone, Diseases of {Chronic Osteomyelitis, Hyperos- tosis) ; Brain, Tumours of {Morbid Anatomy); Hip-Joint, Diseases op {Neuro-Arthropathies, Tumours, Innocent); Meninges of the Cere- brum [{Minor Conditions, Bony Formations); Neck, Region of {Solid Tumours); Tumours {Connective Tissue Type, Osteomata). Osteomalacia (Mollities ossium). See also Chest, Deformities of {Osteomalacia); Deformities {Boiv-Legs, Causes); Labour, Preci- pitate AND Prolonged {Contracted Pelvis, Osteo- malacic) ; Malaoosteon ; Pregnancy, Affec- tions AND Complications {Osseous Changes); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Osteomalacia). ' Though known from early times, osteomalacia was distinguished from rickets only in the year 1772 ; when it was recognised that while the one disease prevents the deposition of mineral matter in the bones during their development, the other softens them by the removal, first, of inorganic, and, later, of organic matter during adult life. Osteomalacia is typically seen in certain districts, in the half-starved woman with a large family, who works in the fields ex- posed to wet and cold, suckling one child and heavy with another. The first symptom, as a rule, is pain in the sacrum, spine, and pelvic bones, which later involves the legs and sometimes the arms. The pain is continuous, but is increased by pressure and by movement. Difficulty in walking is next observed, and owing to inability to flex the thigh on the abdomen, the patient adopts a waddling gait. Increased knee-jerk, ankle clonus, muscular tremors, inability to stand with the eyes shut, and various other nervous symptoms, are early features of the disease. Muscular weakness is of general occurrence. As the disease advances certain bones become softened owing to the removal of their inorganic portions, and bending occurs which is determined by purely mechanical principles. The pelvis first shows deformity. The weight of the body, acting through the sacrum, and the resistance of the ground, transmitted through the acetabula, push in the pelvis, behind and laterally, and so produce the "beaked," "ros- trate," or "triradiate" pelvis, which is figured and described, together with its eff'ects upon labour, in all obstetric works {see "Labour, Contracted Pelvis"). The spine may become twisted in various ways, so greatly reducing the height of the patient. Softening of the ribs causes deformity of the chest, as the weight of the arms pushes its sides together, throwing for- ward the sternum. The angles of the scapulee may become incurved; and, lastly, the long bones may be afi'ected, and are occasionally fractured and bent. The other systems rule, unaffected. Recovery may occur spontaneously even after many years, or the condition may progress until the patient becomes bedridden and dies of concurrent disease. The nervous system is found post-mortem to be free from gross lesions. Histopathological examination has, however, revealed organic changes in the cord which appear to begin in the cells of the anterior cornua. These are not inflammatory in character, and clinical evidence shows that they are capable of repair. There is early congestion of the periosteum with dilatation and congestion of the medullary vessels. The medullary canals are enlarged as are the cancellous spaces. The inorganic matter is removed from the areas surrounding the Haversian canals, and absorption of the oi'ganic portion of the bone may follow ; osteoclasts are seen in the absorbed areas, as in the physiologi- cal process of bone removal. Repair may be observed going on side by side with absorption. Whilst the proportion of inorganic to organic matter in normal bone is about 2 to 1, this is reversed in osteomalacic bone till the proportion is as 1 to 2. The weakened muscles show, post-mortem, fatty degeneration, multiplication of nuclei, and other changes similar to those ob- served in progressive muscular atrophy. Dur- ing the active phases of the disease phosphates abound in the urine ; but apart from this it cannot be said that examination of the urine or of the blood has had results which are consistent or valuable. Osteomalacia is much commoner in women than in men, though numerous cases of its occurrence in male subjects are recorded. The disease most frequently occurs during the period of sexual activity, though in several cases it has appeared after the menopause, and it is also said to have been observed in childhood. Pregnancy and lactation, especially if frequent, favour theOSTEOMALACIA 196 advance of the disease and cause exacerbations. About 74 per cent of the recorded cases have occurred in connection with pregnancy, the remainder being divided between nuUiparous women and men. The disease is so rare in most parts of the world that it is considered as endemic in portions of Italy and Switzerland, in Bavaria, Wurtemburg, Baden, and Alsace, where it is frequently observed. So many theories are still in vogue as to the cause of osteomalacia, that it is clear that we have no real knowledge of the matter. The view which explains the greatest number of the features of the disease is that it is a primary affection of the nerve-cells of the cord. The nervous symptoms have been regarded as due to pressure consequent on deformity, but in reality they appear before there is any change in the bones. Charcot's disease forms a sug- gestive parallel. Nervous diseases are markedly hereditary, which accounts for the distribution of osteomalacia better than suppositions as to food and water. Indeed starvation, exposure, frequent pregnancy, and prolonged lactation are of so universal distribution that it is impos- sible to regard them as causes of a disease so restricted to certain localities. As secondary causes, given a primary and inherited nervous lesion, they may well act in making manifest a latent weakness. The early diagnosis of osteomalacia is not possible. Most cases are considered either as rheumatism or as spinal disease until deformity appears. The so-called osteomalacia carcinoma- tosa is the only condition with which advanced cases may be confused, and this is usually dis- tinguished by other evidences of malignant disease, primary or secondary. Assuming that the primary lesion of osteomalacia is a spinal one, an early provisional diagnosis of spinal disease would of course be correct, and would be made more definite on the appearance of de- formity. The prognosis is now very much better than was the case a few years ago. Hygienic surroundings, cod-liver oil, phosphorus, bone- marrow, and salt baths have all given excellent results. The idea that removal of the ovaries cures the disease has arisen partly as a corollary to the theory that reflex irritation from the reproductive organs is its cause. The numerous recoveries which have occurred after Porro's operation (done to secure delivery at term in cases of advanced deformity) have suggested the adoption of double oophorectomy (sometimes accompanied by removal of the uterus) for the cure of the disease in non-pregnant women. As, however, numerous women (and men) have recovered under good surroundings and internal medication, these should always be patiently tried, and should be continued even after operation, should this be thought neces- sary ; for many cases of relapse after oophorec- tomy have ultimately recovered luider medical treatment. For the course which should be followed when a sufferer from osteomalacia is pregnant, the reader is referred to the discussion of the subject under the heading " Labour, Con- tracted Pelvis." Osteomyelitis. —Inflammation of the marrow of a bone. See Bone, Diseases of {Osteomyelitis due to Staphylococci and to Pyo- genic Organisms); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Acute Osteomyelitis in Vicinity of the Joint); Knee- JoiNT, Diseases op {Pyogenic Disease of Femur and Tibia) ; Scurvy, Infantile {Diagnosis) ; Spine, Surgical Affections op {Acute Osteo- myelitis) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones and Joints). Osteopathy.—A morbid condition of a bone; more commonly, that system of healing in which all diseases are attributed to misplace- ment or other lesion of bones. Osteoperiostitis. —Inflammation affecting both the bone and the superjacent periosteum. See Bone, Diseases op. Osteopliyte.—A bony deposit, especi- ally such as occurs on the inner surface of the cranial bones, e.g. in pregnancy. See Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications {Osseous Changes, Osteophytes). Osteoplasty. — Plastic operations per- formed upon bones; osteoplastic surgery. Osteoporosis.—Absorption and atrophy of bone leading to widening of the medullary spaces. See Hip-Joint, Injuries of {Bruised Hip, Sequelae, Chronic Osteoporosis). OsteopsatiiyrosiS.—Fragilitasossium (Gr. oa-riov, bone, ij/a6vp6';, crumbling or friable). See Fragilitas Ossium. Osteosarcoma.—A sarcomatous tu- mour containing bone, or a fibrous tumour developing from the periosteum. Osteosclerosis. — Hardening or ebur- nation of bone, as occurs in condensing osteitis. See Insanity, Pathology of {Pathological Ana- tomy). Osteotomy. — The division of a bone either simple {linear osteotomy) or with the removal of a wedge-shaped portion {cuneiform osteotomy). See Deformities ; Kickets ; etc. Ostium.—An aperture or mouth, e.g. the ostium abdominale of the Fallopian tube by which the tube communicates with the peri- toneal cavity, the ostium aorticum of the heart, etc. See Fallopian Tubes {Inflammation, Closure of the Ostium); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Anatomy, Antrum, Ostium Maxillare). Osweg^O.—A preparation of maize, com- posed largely of starchy elements. Otalg^ia.—Pain in the ear ; earache.197 OTHEMATOMA Othsematoma.—Hsematoma Auris (q.V.). Otic.—Relating to the ear (Gr. o?s, the ear), e.g. the otic ganghon; otiatrics is aural medicine and surgery. Otitis.—Inflammation of the ear. Otitis Externa. See Ear, External, Diseases of [Infiammation of the External Meatus). Otitis Interna. See Auditory Nerve AND Labyrinth {Inflammation). Otitis Media. See Ear, Acute and Chronic Inflammation of the Middle Ear. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nature of Lesion); Facial Nerve, Paralysis OF (Etiology); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Chronic Diarrhoea, Complications); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Complications, Otitis Media); Measles {Complications, Otitis Media); Meninges of the Cerebrum {Acute Meningitis, Diagnosis); Pneumonia, Clinical {Complica- tions, Otitis Media); Scarlet Fever {Complica- tions, Ear); Syphilis {In Children, Ear); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelae, Aural). OtO-.—In compound words oto- (Gr. oSs, the ear) means relating to the ear. Otocephaly.—A teratological type in which the external ears are approximated or united in the middle line; there is atrophy of the lower part of the head, and the jaws and a great part of the face may be absent; the combination of otocephaly with cyclopia con- stitutes cyclotia. Otoconia.—Crystals of carbonate of lime found adhering to the maculae in the mem- branous labyrinth of the ear ; otoliths. OtOCyst. — The auditory vesicle of the embryo. See Embryology. Otodynia.—Pain in the ear; otalgia. Otoliths. — Calcareous nodules found within the membranous labyrinth of the in- ternal ear. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear). OtolOg'y.—The science of the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the ear. Otomycosis.—Aural morbid conditions due to the presence and growth of fungi in the ear. See Ear, External, Diseases of {Para- sitic Otitis Externa); Otorrhcea ; Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Otomycosis). Otophone.—An ear-trumpet. Otopiesis.—^Depression of the tympanic membrane from atmospheric pressure due to rarefaction of the air in the cavity of the tympanum, leading to deafness. Otorrhag'ia.—Haemorrhage from the ear. See Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation, Aural). Otorrhcea is a symptom of disease in the outer or middle ear and its annexa. It is most commonly dependent on an acute or chronic inflammation in the tympanum—conditions de- scribed in an earlier part of this work (vol. ii.). The present article deals with the symptoms per se, and the manner in which otorrhcea has to be studied and treated. Under normal conditions the bacteria present in the outer and middle ear exist as saprophytes and have no pathogenic significance, but it is otherwise in diseased states of the ear and as- sociated mucous membranes of the Eustachian tube and naso-pharynx, in which we have cir- cumstances favourable to their further develop- ment and activity. The diseases of the outer ear attended by otorrhcea can be shortly dis- missed. It may be dependent on the presence of a foreign body in the meatus ; in investigating this point, care must be exercised to determine the presence of any small foreign body far in the meatus next the membrane at its anterior part. Or it may be due to an inflammatory condition of the cutaneous lining membrane, such as is present in cases of eczema or parasitic otitis externa (otomycosis). In yet other in- stances it may be traumatic in origin. But it matters not which of these conditions has been the starting-point of the disorder; the important point to bear in mind is that in every case we are dealing with a local bacterial infection. Bearing this in mind, the treatment is simple and calls for little comment. The removal of any foreign body must be effected ; the meatus should be syringed with a non-irritating anti- septic solution, with a frequency proportionate to the severity of the case, and thereafter the meatus should be carefully dried with a pledget of antiseptic cotton-wool. This is best done by the use of a wooden match, the end of which is encircled by the wool and inserted carefully into the ear. Dryness is inimical to bacterial growth. In bad cases it may be desirable to counter-irritate the diseased surface by silver nitrate -—^—^ or other stimulant, with the grs. to 3 object of inducing a more favourable local reaction. No further local measures are called for. The cases dependent on chronic disease in the middle ear are more serious, and correspondingly more difficult to treat. The clinical history of these patients is usually perfectly clear, and leaves no room for difficulty in the diagnosis ; and while in the majority the course of the otorrhcea is a simple one, and the treatment equally simple and satisfactory, in other cases198 OTORRHCEA the reverse obtains, and the treatment is very unsatisfactory. It is the latter group that is specially interesting. What is the explanation of those cases of chronic suppuration which fail to respond to the ordinary treatment, comprised in thorough cleanliness, asepsis, and it may be a little judicious stimulation'? Is there any special bacteriology of these cases ? Is there any particular microbe or combination of mi- crobes which finds a particularly suitable nidus in the middle ear or in the pus itself of these cases"? These are questions that can hardly be answered; but they should be kept in mind and, when opportimity affords, investigated. We mvist, of course, bear in mind that in cases of suppuration, mainly in the attic {v. vol. ii.), the difficulties of suitable drainage are consider- able, and this mechanical difficulty may in itself be the sole caiise of the long continuance of the discharge. But this in no way accounts for all cases. A case that was under the writer's ob- servation for over three years illustrates this point well. When first seen, the child, set. 21 months, suffered from an otorrhoea of some months' standing. The persistent use of boric lotion thrice daily, carried out carefully by the mother, was not followed by any marked im- provement. The continuance of the discharge led to an operation on the mastoid, at which the diseased parts were freely exposed and scraped, and subsequently treated in the hospital. The conditions persisted, and later the naso-pharynx was scraped, as it was thought possible that a slight cushion of adenoid tissue might be aggravating the middle ear disease. No improvement resulted; the free discharge persisted. This case was again operated on, more than a year later, by another surgeon, and still the patient's state was apparently uninfluenced. A third operation was attended by a like result. The surprising thing about the case was the relatively slight influence which this long-continued free suppuration seemed to exert on the patient. The child grew and ap- peared to thrive in a really remarkable degree, and when 3-| years old met with a very serious burning accident, involving the skin of nearly one-third of the body. Curious to relate, this very serious accident seemed to affect this child even less than it would have done a robust child. This fact was so striking that one could not but wonder whether the previous suppuration had exerted anything of the nature of an immunising effect on the tissues of the patient. When the patient again came under the writer's observation six months later, a bacteriological examination of the pus was made, with the following result. The pus showed a few round cocci which stained by Gram's method, bvit the most striking micro- organism was a short, straight, actively motile bacillus, which stained homogeneously, formed no spores, and was decolorised by Gram's method. These were present in great abundance. On an agar plate they formed greyish-white colonies of moderate size, somewhat flat in character, with a sharp clear margin and dark granular centre. The bacillus rendered bouillon diffusely cloudy; it formed gas in a glucose agar medium and liquefied gelatine by the second day. This last point served to differentiate it from the bacillus coli, which it otherwise closely resembled in many respects. The blood serum of this patient did not agglutinate or interfere with the motility of this bacillus after twenty-four hours in a dilution of 1 to 30. The last-mentioned point seems, at first sight, to suggest that this bacillus bore no causal relationship; but the data are insufficient to dogmatise on this point, as it is doubtful if the serum necessarily acquires agglutinating properties in cases of a purely local suppuration. It may have been that this bacillus was an accidental contamination. It should perhaps be stated that this microbe was apparently not one of the special micro-organisms referred to in the section on the ear (vol. ii.). These points are mentioned with the object of empha- sising the importance of a bacteriological ex- amination in all cases of an intractable nature. A more extended knowledge of the bacteriology of these cases would help mi;ch to elucidate their etiology. With regard to treatment of these cases a few words will suffice. The line of treatment is essentially the same as already indicated for the external ear discharge, only more frequent syringing and even greater care in drying the accessible parts of the ear are called for. A few cases call for operative interference. These have been discussed in vol. ii. But there is one line of treatment which is valuable, and merits probably greater attention than it has yet received. We refer here to an adequate and yet not excessive stimulation of the tympanic mucous membrane by the local application of stimulating lotions, e.g. 10 to 15 drops of a solution of equal parts of glycerine and rectified spirits. Aniline oil in rectified spirits has also been used with marked success in some cases, but the glycerine and spirits is probably, on the whole, more advisable, as toxic effects have been known to follow the administration of aniline oil. These remedies doubtless exert their influence through the vascular reaction induced by them and the resulting greater power of resistance associated with a more vitally active mucous membrane. It must not be forgotten that treatment directed to the Eustachian tube, more especially the use of the catheter, is very helpful in some of these cases. Otoscope.—An ear speculum, or a rubber tube for the detection of rupture of the tym- panic membrane by sound. Otto of Rose.—Oleum Rosaj, the oil distilled from the flowers of Rosa damascena. See Rose, Oil of.OUABAINE 199 Ouabai'ne. — A glucoside (CgoH^gOjj or CgflHjgOj^) obtained from the wood of acokan- thera ouabaia; it resembles strophanthin (CgjH^gOjg) in its action, and it has been given in cases of pertussis (dose, xwoo grain). Ourentery.—A teratological state, form- ing a variety of omphalocephaly, and consisting in the displacement of part of the embryo into the posterior part of the alimentary canal (^Rabaud). Ouseht. See Leprosy {Terminology, Coptic Name). Outfalls. See Sewage and Drainage {Sewers). Outg'Oing^ Nerves.—Efferent nerves. See Physiology, Tissues {Nei-ves, Classification of Neurons). Ova. See FcETus and Ovum, Development OF {Graafian Follicle); Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries, Microscopic Structure). Ovalbumen.—The albumen of the egg. Ovaraden. — A preparation from the ovaries of animals, recommended in organo- therapy as a nerve tonic. Ovaralgfia or Ovarialg^ia.—Pain in the ovarian region. See Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Hyperaesthesia). Ovarian. — Relating to the ovary or ovaries. See Ovaries, Diseases of the. Ovaries, Diseases of the. Physiology 199 Removal of Ovaries for Curb of Cancer OF Breast ...... 200 Malformations ..... 200 Atrophy and Hypertrophy . 201 Hernia and Allied Affections 201 HyPBRjEMIA ...... 202 Blood Concretions .... 202 Inflammation ..... 202 TUBO-OVARIAN CySTS .... 203 Syphilis ...... 203 Actinomycosis ..... 203 Leprosy ...... 203 Tubercle ...... 203 Tumours— Pedicle ...... 207 Capsule ...... 207 Complications ..... 208 Symptoms ..... 211 Diagnosis ..... 212 Treatment ..... 213 Ovariotomy ..... 213 Complications .... 213 Tumours of Ovarian Ligament 215 Tumours of Broad Ligament, including Primary Dermoid .... 215 Primary Ovarian Pregnancy 217 See also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Ovaries); Ascites {Causation, Diagnosis); Broad Ligaments, Climacteric Insanity {Treat- ment, Ovarian Extract); Fallopian Tubes {Ovarian Hydrocele); Fluids, Examination of Pathological {Cystic, Ovarian); Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries); Generation, Female Organs, Arrested Development of {Ovaries); Gonorrhceal Infection {Ovarian Abscess); Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Abdominal Palpation, etc.); Hermaphroditism {True); Hernia {Ovarian); Indigestion {Classification, Nervous Influences); Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Floating Kidney, Diagnosis), Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Hydronephrosis, Dia- gnosis) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Tumours, Diagnosis; Stone, Diagnosis); Labour, Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages, Ovarian Tumour); Liver, Diseases of {Malformations from Tight - Lacing, Diagnosis); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Cancer, Treatment by Removal of Ovaries); Menopause {Ovarian Secretion); Menstruation and its Disorders {Amenorrhosa after Oophorectomy; Menorrhagia, Causes; Dysmenorrhoea, Causes); Micturition -{Incontinence, Causes); Mumps {Complications); Post-mortem Methods {Female Pelvis); Preg- nancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Re- troversion of Gravid Uterus, Diagnosis) ; Preg- nancy, Affections op Generative Organs {Ovarian Tumours in Pregnancy) ; Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Etiology); Spleen, Surgery of {Movable Sjdeen, Diagnosis); Ster- ility {Etiology) ; Syphilis (Visceral, Genito- iirinary Organs); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequela;, Ovaritis); Uterus, Malformations of {Rudimentary Ovaries, Accessory Ovary) ; Uterus, Associated Insanity {Ovarian States). Physiology of the Ovary.—It has long been known that the ovaries produce ova, and are closely associated with the general sexual characteristics of the female subject. It now appears more than probable that these charac- teristics are influenced not directly by ovula- tion but rather by some product or secretion elaborated by the ovary. An infant bears thousands of ova in the ovaries at birth, and the majority undergo premature involution before puberty. Then begins the process of ovulation and menstrua- tion, and the capability of impregnation and gestation follow. The precise relation of these processes to each other has never been strictly determined, and demands more lengthy dis- cussion than is at our disposal. An ovum after impregnation can develop a human being with tissues in their right places; it is just possible, then, that the phenomenon of ovarian dermoid means that an ovum not impregnated can under some unknown influence develop the tissues of the human body, but cannot, so to speak, arrange them. The evolution of the200 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE ovum and the involution of the ovisac into a corpus luteum are well known. These active changes slowly disappear during the menopause. Absence or extreme arrest in development of the ovaries involves sterility, with distinct but not very definite modifications in general sexual characteristics. Destructive disease of the ovaries, such as the inflammation and inter- stitial haemorrhages which occur during certain exanthemata, have been known to produce the same effects. The results of alleged complete removal of the ovaries by operation are less definite. As a rule, sterility and all the symp- toms of the climacteric follow, with speedy or gradual disappearance of the sexual appetite. But in other cases sterility is the sole conse- quence, the period persisting, the sexiial appetite is often increased, or even develops when the patient was previously frigid. Uterine fibroids, especially when limited to the upper part of the uterus, often decrease in size after removal of the ovaries, but sometimes remain quite unaff'ected and grow larger. Clinical records of removal of the ovaries must, however, be accepted with great reserve, particularly in relation to physiology. For it is not always certain that all ovarian tissue is removed at the operation. This tissue often runs along the ovarian ligament close up to the uterus, so that some is left behind when the tube is amputated, unless the pedicle be cut danger- ously short—a surgical error which the operator instinctively avoids. There can be no doubt that the ovary eliminates some product which has a general effect on the economy. "Ovarian oophotherapy" has, however, as yet given very uncertain results. Dalche, whose reports seem the most trustworthy, gives cachets consisting of a grain and a half of fresh ovarian tissue from the sheep. One or two are given daily at first; three are, as a rule, quite enough later on. His results are not very definite ; thus he cured a chlorotic young work-girl of anaemia, but amenori'hoea, which had not existed before, set in with the treatment. The phosphates in the urine were greatly increased ; this is interest- ing, as removal of the ovaries arrests mollities ostium and checks the elimination of phosphates. In Fosbery's case climacteric flushing was suc- cessfully treated by 5-grain palatinoids of ovarian gland given three times daily; Dalche claims similar experiences. Martin {loc. cit.) and Kippenberg report that fourteen out of thirty cases of double ovariotomy were " benefited " by this treatment, but they remain sceptical, and admit that the extract often causes dyspepsia, and that the "cure" may be by suggestion.^ 1 There is no evidence that any of the fourteen would have suffered from the loss of both ovaries. Ferr6 and Bastian find that a glycerine and water extract acts pliysiologically on a male more powerful!}' than on a woman, producing orgasm followed by paralytic symptoms. Saalfeld has made use of ovarian juice for skin diseases during the menopause, and also for prurigo at the menstrual period with success. Removal of Ovaries for the Cure of Cancer of the Breast was first practised by Beatson of Glasgow in 1895, and he made public his results before the Edinburgh Medico- Chirurgical Society in May 1896. He believed that some pathological condition of the ovaries was the exciting cause of cancer of the breast. There is a close relation, he noted, between the ovaries and the secretion of milk ; epithelial proliferation in a healthy breast becomes a factor in milk production, whilst in an unhealthy breast it becomes a factor in developing cancer. Removal of the ovaries appeared, he maintained, to have an inhibitory influence on malignant proliferation of epithelial cells. Since 1896 Watson Cheyne, Herman, and particularly Stanley Boyd, have tried this practice and published their results. Beatson, with whom Herman agrees, advocates the administration of thyroid extract after oophorectomy as a powerful lymphatic stimulant. Stanley Boyd has ob- served the effects of the extract in several cases where oophorectomy was also practised, and in others where the ovaries were not removed, and came to the conclusion that its action on the disease is very doubtful. In Page and Bishop's case of recurrent cancer of the breast the ex- tract was given for a year without effect; then the patient disappeared, but continued taking the drug. When she was again seen six months later, the disease had disappeared. But Boyd questions whether the result was due to the thyroid extract, and quotes Gould's case of spontaneous disappearance of advanced mam- mary cancer without any kind of treatment. From 3 to 20 grains of the thyroid extract were given daily in the above cases. Oopho- rectomy has certainly proved of temporary benefit in many cases of recurrent or inoperable cancer. In the summer of 1900 Stanley Boyd gave details of thirty-eight cases, in seventeen of which considerable improvement had resulted. He found that the operation was practically useless after the menopause, and admits that a great deal moi-e experience will be necessary to determine its mode of action and range of benefit. Accessory Ovaries. — The term "accessory ovary" is usually applied to a small lobe of ovarian tissue attached to the normal ovary by a pedicle. In an example under the author's own observation there was on the opposite side a fibro-myoma of the ovarian ligament half an inch in diameter. De Sindty once detected a supernumerary ovary which bore on its surface ciliated, not columnar epithelium, and contained cysts lined with the same kind of cell and bearing ova. About 4 per cent of post-mortem subjects show these insignificant "accessory ovaries" (Beigel and von Winckel). Portions201 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE of adrenal tissue occasionally found in the broad ligament must not be placed under the present heading, which also mvist not include instances when an ovary is completely divided into two parts by a groove. A few examples of an ab- solutely distinct third ovary have been reported by writers of repute. In von Winckel's, the best known, the third ovary is represented as springing from the front of the uterus im- mediately internal to the right round ligament. Schultz-Schultzenstein, in figuring an intra- ligamentary myo-sarcoma from a post-mortem subject where both normal ovaries existed, re- presents the tumour springing from a pedicle anterior to the Fallopian tube—in the same position, in fact, as in von Winckel's case; but his belief that it was a sarcoma of a third ovary is based on uncertain grounds. Pedun- culated solid tumours of the broad ligament quite independent of the ovary and uterus are not very rare. In Winkler's case two left ovaries of normal size existed; in Keppler's two svich ovaries were provided with a Fallopian tube apiece. One or two other more doubtful examples of the anomaly are recorded. When menstruation continues after alleged removal of both ovaries we must not be too ready to assume that an accessory ovary has been left behind. In svxch a theory there are many sources of fallacy. Absence op Ovary.—This condition is either teratological, or simply means that the organ has become adherent to some other structure, and has separated from its normal connections, so that it exists but away from its normal place and attachments. Assumptions about the ovary in any case of malformation of the genitals are unsatisfactory. Both ovaries may be present when the uterus is represented by a mere cord (Cruise). Teratological absence of the ovaries has been found in every degree. Kossmann and others have proved on clinical evidence that total absence not only of the ovaries, but also of the uterus, is not incompatible with survival to adult life. But the malformation is often associated with more or less mental disease, with frigidity, or in some cases, it would appear, with nymphomania. Indeed, it seems as though it were sometimes the cause of the psychical derangement. In a case of a female lunatic, who died aged thirty-eight, and whose insanity began at puberty, the author found a uterus fcetalis with atresia of the os externum, whilst the ovaries had atrophied or rather never developed. Painful coitus and other distressing- symptoms are observed in cases of absence of the ovaries. Absence of one ovary is a terato- logical condition rarely though occasionally CO-existent with perfect development of the uterus and opposite ovary. Scanzoni found it associated in two cases with arrested develop- ment of the corresponding mammary gland. Rvdimentary ovaries come under the present category, but are more frequent than the above malformations. They are often associated with similar grave psychical complications. Not rarely they give rise to severe pain, for which reason they have been successfully removed. Absence of the ovary from its normal side is one result of extreme torsion of the pedicle of an ovarian tumour; but the same accident may occur to a small ovary adherent to omentum. Hence, when after removing an ovarian tumour the surgeon finds nothing but a stump on the opposite side, he should carefully search for the missing ovary higher up in the abdomen. Arrested descent of the ovary will be discussed under Hernia of Ovary. Atrophy and Hypertrophy of Ovary.— Atrophy before the menopause is the rule in wasting diseases. It must not be confounded with imperfect development of the ovary described above under the heading Rudimen- tary Ovaries, nor with cirrhotic contraction from inflammation. Both these conditions are usually associated with pain. It is doubtful whether pure uncomplicated atrophy is ever painful. Hypertrophy pure and simple is a doubtful condition, not to be confounded with oedema and hydrops folliculi. Hernia of Ovary and Allied Affections must here be considered in relation to the ovary alone. As varieties of rupture they have been described under " Hernia." Arrested descent has been observed by Martin in three ovariotomies. The normal ovary was detected high above the pelvic brim, against the side of the lumbar vertebra3, immediately under the kidney. Prolapse into Douglas's pouch, when not due to inflammatory swelling or adhesion, is akin to hernia. In Ward Cousins's case, in a lunatic aged fifty, there was bad prolapse of the uterus and rectum. Rupture of the vagina occurred during violent straining, and one ovary and tube protruded through the wound ; they were successfully removed. Hermaphroditism in Congenital Inguinal Hernia.—An ovary-like structure in such a hernia has repeatedly proved to be a testicle (Chambers, Martin, G. R. Turner, F. Neuge- bauer ; thirty-three cases). In the most recent case (Turner's) a movable, oval, irreducible swelling was removed from the left inguinal region, from a " girl" aged fourteen, ruptured from her birth. It proved to be a testicle; then atresia vaginee and absence of any sign of a uterus were detected. Hence in any case of congenital inguinal hernia the external and internal genitals should be explored carefully. The ovary in a hernial sac, "ovarian hernia," with no doubt about the nature of the ovary, is frequent. The hernia is usually inguinal (excluding all doubtful cases), but may be femoral, umbilical (Solvieff), obturator, or even ischiatic or gluteal (Waldeyer, Routier). The homologies of the normal descent of the202 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE testis and the abnormal descent of the ovary are considered by Lockwood, Klaatsch, and W. M'A. Eccles. Wiart and others believe that hernia of the tnbe precedes that of the ovary {see " Fallopian Tubes, Diseases of"); but Kossmann has collected six cases of in- guinal ovarian hernia, where the tube had not entered the sac. Though congenital inguinal hernia of a genuine ovary has never been authenticated, acquired hernia not rarely develops a few months after birth. It is perfectly reducible at first, but speedily becomes irreducible. Several successful operations have been performed on infants. The ovary was irreducible in Pinkerton's case (child sixteen months), cystic in Beckett's (eleven weeks, the youngest case), and strangulated in Pollard's (three months) and Hooper May's (seven months). But the ovary was not examined in any of these cases, and it must be remembered that a fimbriated tube has been found associated with a genital gland which the microscope proved to be a testicle. In the adult a well- developed herniated ovary swells and becomes tender at the period. Conception may occur in a woman subject for years to double inguinal hernia (Beigel), and Widerstein found an ovary with a gravid tube in a left inguinal hernia (see Kossmann). Hyper/emia, Interstitial HiEMORRHAGE, HEMATOMA, Apoplexy. — In febrile diseases hyperaemia of the ovary is often detected after death. Diffuse hsemorrhage is a common result, the stroma of the ovary being more or less soaked in blood, a change marked in Asiatic cholera, causing a choleraic pseudocatamenial flow. These haemorrhages are also seen in cases of typhoid fever and less frequently in the exanthemata, in bad burns, and phosphorus poisoning, and from purely mechanical causes, as twisting of the pedicle (Erfurth, Martin). Htematoma is not rare in follicular hypertrophy, to be described under chronic oophoritis. As the clot is found decolorised in some of the follicles, and more or less recent in others, the process must be chronic. The author has described a case of acute apoplexy of the ovary attended with violent pain and swelling of the organ, which was removed five months later, and found to contain a large decolorised clot communicating with a hypertrophied corpus luteum. Rupture of the ovary in acute apoplexy and rapid death from haemorrhage has been reported, but not recently, and Bland- Sutton reasonably suspects that the ruptured structure was a gravid tube. Blood Concretions in the Ovary are un- common, and do not seem to be the result of inflammation nor the usual consequence of haematoma or apoplexy of the ovary. Most likely, however, they are to be traced to the latter condition. Hector Mackenzie and the author have each described a case, both of which occurred in patients with uterine myoma. In the author's specimen, preserved in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the concretions lay in a cyst full of blood an inch and a half in diameter in the right ovary. Bland-Sutton found over a hundred similar concretions in an ovarian cyst full of blood through twisting of the pedicle. Inflammation op Ovary : Oophoritis.—The ovary is often the seat of inflammation. In such a case the tube and adjacent peritoneum are nearly always involved. Hence oophoritis is inextricably mixed tip with perimetritis and salpingitis, which must be studied and considered in association with the former disease. But an inflamed ovary is a distinct entity, often detected on palpation and often exposed at operation. It exhibits the characteristic appearances of in- flammation known to the pathologist. Causes. — Living authorities reject the old idea that chills cause oophoritis. A pure chill, from sitting in damp boots, for instance, may assuredly aggravate a chronic attack. No doubt this disease is, as a rule, due to sepsis, especially puerperal, to gonorrhoea, or to tubercle. Classification.—Excluding tubercular disease, oophoritis is most conveniently classified after Martin and Orthmann's principles. Acute oophoritis usually consists in free small- celled infiltration into the stroma of the ovary ("interstitial" form), but the follicles may be involved ("general " form). This disease tends to subside, to end in suppuration, or, most frequently, if neglected, to pass into the chronic form. When symptoms of perimetritis are marked the diagnosis of acute inflammation of the ovary is often easy. The ovary is distinctly swollen and very tender. The longer the in- flammatory symptoms have lasted, and the more the ovary has become adherent to adjacent structures, the harder will diagnosis become. As to treatment., a recently inflamed ovary, still movable, should never be removed. Under the usual treatment suitable for acute perimetritis, it will soon recover provided that adjacent structures be not gravely involved. Chronic oophoritis is extremely common and hardly ever uncomplicated. As in the acute form, it may be " interstitial," or the follicles may be involved ("general" form). The chronic inflammatory process is usually destructive to the follicles, whilst great hypertrophy of the stroma occurs, not to be mistaken for fibroma. The vessels in the hilum become dilated. In- stead of this false " fibroma" developing, the stroma may atrophy, whilst the follicles, thickened and unable to rupture, become dropsical. This is the condition known as " follicular hypertrophy " or " small cystic de- generation." A few proportionately very big cysts fill a small ovar3^ The interest of this second form of chronic oophoritis lies in the difficulty of diagnosing it from early cystomaOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 203 proper. There is a third form of chronic oopho- ritis where the stroma shrinks and becomes hard, whilst the folUcles disappear. This variety is often termed " cirrhosis of the ovary." Abscess of the ovary may occur after acute oophoritis, or set in during chronic inflammation. In sepsis after childbirth diffused or interstitial suppuration in the stroma sometimes takes place. The follicles, and even the corpora lutea may become the seat of abscess. In chronic oophoritis, the abscesses seem often due to secondary infection of the hypertrophied follicles, a change homologous to suppuration of a true cyst and to suppuration of a hydrosalpinx. Corpus luteum abscess may develop in the same manner ; but in the case of a corpus luteum, where mechanical rupture has occurred, it is easier to imderstand how infection follows if there be close adhesions to the bowel or to a pyosalpinx. Fraenkel reminds us that gonor- rhoeal infection of the tube makes infection of the follicle opening for ovulation quite possible. TuBO-ovARiAN Cysts are described under " Fallopian Tubes, Diseases of." One variety must be noticed here, that which results from the union of an adherent dilated tube to an ovary undergoing follicular hypertrophy. This form, which is of purely inflammatory origin, was distinguished independently by Schramm and Nielsen and by the present author. Syphilis.—Recent research has failed to prove that this disease produces any special lesion in the ovary. Records of gumma of the ovary, often quoted, are scanty and untrustworthy. A true syphilitic oophoritis has never been satis- factorily distinguished. Women infected with syphilis are liable to suffer from oophoritis due to other causes than syphilitic infection. Though the ovary has been found more than once infected with the parasite of actinomycosis, it seems never to be the primary seat of that disease. Precisely the same may be said of the ovary in leprosy, according to Babes' report, read in 1897 at Berlin before the International Leprosy Congress. Tubercle of the Ovary.—This organ does not offer a favourable nidus for tubercular infection, and hence in comparison with the tubes, or even the uterus, it is rarely infected in common tubercular diseases like phthisis. Dr. P. Dymock Turner found undoubted tubercular lesions in the internal genitals, in five out of twenty-seven consecutive necropsies on women who had died of phthisis in the Brompton Hospital. The ovary was involved in one case only, and in that instance the uterus and tubes were also tubercular. Orthmann denies that primary tubercle of the ovary has ever been detected. In von Franque's case the ovary was removed through the vagina and the patient recovered; the primary seat of disease might have been in another organ. Secondary tubercle of the ovary may be commoner than is generally suspected. In nearly 16 per cent of recorded cases of genital tuberculosis the ovary was reported to be infected on the strength of naked- eye appearances, but recent reliable statistics raise the percentage to 34 (Orthmann). The peritoneum or Fallopian tvibe is almost ex- clusively the source of infection. Tubercle of the ovary may manifest itself as miliary or caseous deposit in the stroma or on the surface of the organ; but the most important form is the tubercular abscess of the ovary containing characteristic pus. As in tubercle elsewhere, bacteriological evidence may be easy or difficult to obtain. Tubercular tubo- ovarian abscess has been reported, but the sovirces of fallacy noted in " Fallopian Tubes, Diseases of," should be remembered; in other words, a large tubercular pyosalpinx may have been taken for a tubo-ovarian cyst. Symptoms.—Pelvic pain and swelling and evidence of suppuration have been recorded in cases of this disease. Diagnosis is hardly possible, for when these symptoms are observed tubercular pyosalpinx is much more probable. Local treatment is not satisfactory. It has been noticed that after simple incision through the vagina the discharge has been very obstinate, leaving a fistulous track. Abdominal section may cause rapid dissemination of tubercle. Therapeutics are safer than surgery in tuber- cular ovarian disease. Tumours of the Ovary are cystic or solid. The former are more specially associated with that organ, and their pathology is somewhat complicated. Hence, to avoid confusion, their histogenesis will be considered before the characters of the fully - developed cyst, as known to the surgeon, are described. Histogenesis of Common Type of Ovarian Cyst.—The " glandular cystoma ovarii," the "cystadenoma pseudomucinosum," or common ovarian cyst, undoubtedly arises from structures in the oophoron or cortex of the ovar}', and bears a close resemblance to an adenoma in other parts of the body. A good deal is known about the cellular elements on the surface of the foetal ovary, and about the histology of the Graafian follicle from foetal life to old age. Nevertheless, the precise histogenesis of this well- known morbid growth has not been determined to the satisfaction of all pathologists. The histology of the primary, the growing, and the ripe Graafian follicle is described in the article on " Generation, Female Organs of." The epithelial lining never assumes the chai'acter of the rows of large columnar cells which line the inner wall of an ovarian cyst. Some pathologists still trace this cyst to the super- ficial epithelium of the ovary, normally cylin- drical—a strong point of evidence in favour of their theory, as the epithelium of the cyst is of the same type. The superficial columnar epithelium, according to their theory, becomesOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 204 invaginated into the ovarian stroma; but there is some difference of opinion as to how this invagination occurs. Some, inchiding certain very recent observers, believe that portions of the superficial epithelium become buried in the cortex by inflammatory or other accidental changes (Nagel, Gusserow, Opitz). Indeed, Opitz traces uterine and tubal myoma as well as ovarian cystic disease to inflammatory changes. Others look on the involution as a teratological condition. Some, maintaining that the involuted structures normally develop into some or all of the elements of an ovum and its follicles, believe that through some morbid influence some of those structures develop into a cyst. This theory comes near to the doctrine that the glandular cyst is developed from a previously normal follicle, the change having nothing to do with any involution. This doctrine is plausible, but objectors immediately point out the difference in the epithelium in the follicle and in the tumour. Yet amongst current authorities Hofmeier had detected and figured epithelial involutions from follicles forcing their way into the stroma, whilst Pfannenstiel has recorded and sketched the remains of an ovum in a minute cyst lined with a perfect layer of columnar epithelium, and adjacent to undoubted glandular cystic structures. We mvist not deny that the cubi- cal epithelium of the follicle can, under any circumstances, alter its character. Pozzi and Beaussenat believe that ovarian cysts may develop from both the sources above mentioned. They certainly seem to prove, on the evidence of sections from one case, that at least cancer of the ovary may develop from the epithelium of the Graafian follicles. In the further study of this subject care must be taken about conclu- sions drawn from appearances in sections of a small ovary, the fellow to a glandular ovarian cyst. Such appearances may erroneously be taken to indicate incipient cystic disease. Histogenesis of the Papillomatous Cyst.—The " cystoma ovarii papillare," or " cystadenoma serosum papillare," is certainly different from the commoner or glandular cyst. Whitridge Williams claims to have detected papillomatous growths sprouting from the interior of a well- developed Graafian follicle. But Wendeler and others threw some doubt on Williams' theory, based on five specimens, that papilloma arises from the Graafian follicles. It is not clear how many of the ovaries examined by that observer were really about to become papillomatous cysts. The older theory that papillomata arise from relics of the mesonephron, portions of the Wolffian ducts which penetrate the paroophoron, or even enter the obphoron, was strongly maintained by Coblenz. Bland-Sutton and the author have supported it on naked-eye evidence. This kind of cyst tends to burrow between the layers of the broad ligament; now the paro- ophoron lies in the folds of the broad ligament. Pure papilloma of the broad ligament, with the adjacent ovary unaffected, is not rarely seen, and would appear to arise from the parovarium or mesonephron. On the other hand, cystic papilloma may form a well-pedunculated tumour like a glandular cyst, or papillomatous and glandular cysts may be blended in one pedun- culated ovarian tumour, as though relics of the mesonephron which normally exist in the obphoron had given rise to tumours of this class. Kossmann has recently traced papillomatous tumours to Miiller's duct. He has certainly succeeded in showing that minute "accessory Fallopian tubes " bearing fimbriated epithelium are often scattered over the surface of the broad ligament and ovary. The ovarian fimbria, lined with similar epithelimu, sends detached pro- cesses on to and even into the ovary. These scattered elements tend, Kossmann maintains, to become encysted. Still the parovarian or mesonephric origin of papillomatous cysts seems based on stronger evidence. Histogenesis of Dermoid Cysts. — The well- known tumour which contains epidermic struc- tures, bone, nerve, etc., develops in the oophoron. We know that it does so; our ignorance why it does so must not be covered by cunningly devised phrases like " foetal inclusion " or " par- thenogenesis." One of the very latest writers traces dermoids to " atypic, parthenogenetic ova." There seems little doubt that they arise in Graafian follicles. Pregnancy in a follicle, we must remember, is almost if not quite unknown. Even van Tussenbroek's case of alleged early ovarian gestation may be akin to an incipient ovarian dermoid. It has been hinted by Bland- Sutton and others that dermoids and common glandular cysts are closely related, the latter being tumours with the power of developing mucous glands, the former tumours that can develop a far greater variety of structures. Simple Cysts : Dropsy of the Follicles,— This affection is apparently nothing more than an extreme form of the " follicular hypertrophy" already described as a variety of chronic oopho- ritis. The ovary may become as large as a hen's egg ; the dilated follicle sometimes bears a layer of cubical epithelium on its inner wall ; two or three such cysts are not rarely found (" oligocystic tumour "). It is not always easy to distinguish these cysts, direct results of in- flammation, from an incipient cystoma. This fact accounts for the differences of opinion amongst authorities on the nature of small cysts. Corpus luteum cysts are probably of the same origin; they may exceed two inches in diameter. The Common Ovarian Cyst.—This tumour is also termed "cystadenoma pseudomucinosum," or glandular ovarian cyst. Its outer wall is at first silvery-white, with moderately large vessels, but when extensively riddled with minute cystsOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 205 it appeal's greenish and gelatinous. Other appearances, such as a dull surface, coloured patches, etc., are due to inflammation, haemor- rhage, and degeneration. This cyst is always multilocular. Sometimes one loculus predomi- nates, the others may even be but microscopical; in other cases, especially when there is much glandular substance, there are several loculi of much the same size. When the loculi are partly separate externally the tumour appears like a pile of cannon-balls. In a predominating cavity it is the rule to find little or no solid matter, and the internal lining membrane is usually divested of epithelium, owing to macera- tion ; but this variety should be ranked with glandular cysts, there being no true line of de- marcation between them. In the opposite type large masses of glandular growth project into the cavities of the larger loculi, and almost fill up the smaller loculi, whilst there are usually large areas where the solid predominates over the cystic element, and where the cavities are only indicated on section by specks of dead white mucoid material, the secretion from the dense masses of glandular matter. The walls of the loculi are firmest where there is least infiltration with minute glandular cysts, and are most vascular at such points. Hence there is sometimes much loss of blood when the surgeon breaks down the loculi to facilitate extraction. The fluid contents consist in the large loculi of a glairy albuminous fluid. This is typically greyish - green, and seldom approaches the yellow tint of ascitic effusion. But ovarian fluid is often dark brown or otherwise dis- coloured by hsemorrhage, and often mixed with semi-opaque dead white lumps, the product of active secretion from glandular growths. In the smaller loculi these lumps may constitute the sole contents ; when very dense they appear bright white. In some cysts the contents are entirely colloid in consistence, and devoid of the least fluidity. Amidst the loculi dermoid and papillomatous or even malignant growths may be found. General pathologists do not hesitate to rank this familiar tumour as an adenoma (Sims Woodhead, D. J. Hamilton). The lining mem- brane of the predominating cystic cavity bears either flattened cubical epithelium or is entirely divested of any epithelial covering. The minute cysts are lined with very large columnar epithelium, including numerous chalice cells. This adenomatous tissue may implant itself on the peritoneum, a change as a rule clinically malignant. The pedicle is, in the majority of cases of common ovarian cyst, anatomically normal, though always hypertrophied and often exceed- ingly broad. Only a small proportion burrow into the mesosalpinx, very few into the meso- metrium. This subject will be further dis- cussed under the paragraphs on The Pedicle, and Capsules, True and False. In about one- third of all cases the common ovarian cyst is bilateral (Stoecklin). The Papillomatous Ovarian Cyst must be classed with a non-cystic ovarian tumour, free papilloma of the ovary, where masses of papillary growth spring from the surface of the ovary. These free growths set up ascites, and are nearly always bilateral. The rare but con- spicuous racemose " Rokitansky's tumour," which resembles a large hydatidiform mole, and has been figured by Lawson Tait, is considered by Stoecklin (Martin, loc. cit. p. 524) to repre- sent oedema or myxomatous degeneration of free papillomata. The pseudocysts are cer- tainly not ova or follicles. The true pap)illo- matous cyst is frequent; it is often bilateral. Often the smaller growth is but little larger than a normal ovary, and hence liable to be OA'erlooked. Pfannenstiel maintains, on statis- tical evidence, that such an ovary should always be sacrificed, and the author's experience in- duces him to support that principle. The outer wall of a papillomatous tumour is usually thin ; contrasted with the surface of a glandular cyst it is dull in colour. As a rule the tumour consists of a few cavities of fairly equal size. From its inner wall spring the characteristic papillomata, some appearing as mere rough elevations, some as large warts, others as luxuriant cauliflower masses, very vascular and sometimes gritty through psammo- matous changes. These growths frequently burst through the outer wall, which often bears similar growths extra-cystic from their origin. The fluid contents are as clear as water, devoid of albumin, and rich in chloride of sodium. The papillary growths consist of columnar, usually ciliated, cells of moderate size, mounted on a very scanty framework of connective tissue with large vessels to each papilla. A minority of papillomatous cysts, according to the author's experience, bear a normal pedicle. As a rule they are sessile, and not rarely burrow into the mesometrium as well as into the meso- salpinx. Implantation of papillomatous growths on the peritoneum is common—it may prove clinically malignant within a few months; yet the growths may wither completely after re- moval of the tumour. Dermoid Cyst (or " cystic ovarian embry- oma") is commoner in the ovary than in any other part. It arises from the ovary proper, and hence is nearly always pedunculated. The pedicle is particularly liable to torsion, ending sometimes in complete detachment. About 15 per cent of all ovarian cysts are dermoid, and a large proportion of dermoids are bilateral; in infants and under puberty, ovarian cysts are nearly always dermoid. The outer wall of a der- moid is usually dull white and often discoloured. Its fluid contents present great variety, but ai-eOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 206 always more or less greasy. The grease may be clear liquid fat. Sometimes the fat forms itself into a large collection of white pills; when mixed with sebaceous material it appears like yellow pomatum. Free hair, loose or in dense, felted balls, is very frequent. From the walls spring, in most dermoids, amorphous masses of bone often bearing teeth, or teeth may be found without bone. The inner lining of the cyst is skin bearing sebaceous and sweat glands. Deeper under the surface, nerve and muscle and many other structures may be found. Teratoma of the ovary, " solid ovarian embry- oma" (Wilms), is an essentially solid growth. It arises in a limited area of the ovary, the remainder of which is often detected in its capsule. Structures derived from all three layers of the blastoderm are found arranged without any regularity; in some cases they simulate an amorphous acardiac foetus. It grows rapidly and is highly malignant, clini- cally speaking, though it does not undergo can- cerous or sarcomatous degeneration. About fifteen genuine cases have been described. Malignancy of Dermoids ar»A Teratoma.—The frequency of sarcomatous or carcinomatous de- generation has been exaggerated, soft connective tissue in a dermoid being often falsely reported as sarcoma (Bland-Sutton). Sanger (Martin, loc. cit. p. 677) finds that true malignant de- generation only occurs when the dermoid has grown large; he reports and figures a case of carcinomatous degeneration of a dermoid (p. 696), and also an instance of cancerous infection of a dermoid from primary disease in the rectum (p. 698). But "epithelial infection" (Bland- Sutton) or "peritoneal implantation" (Fraenkel, Kolaczek), a clinically malignant change where dermoid masses are disseminated over the peri- toneum, is frequently observed. Teratoma in- variably and rapidly spreads beyond the ovary in this manner. Fibroma of the Ovary is relatively frequent about the menopause and in girlhood. When soft, it is often taken to be a sarcoma. A hard and painless tumour in the hypogastrium, moving separately from the uterus, is most probably an ovarian fibroma, especially in a young subject free from cachexia and amenorrhoea. It causes remarkably little pain, is seldom adherent, and is often associated with a moderate amount of ascites. In one case the author found a large ovarian fibroma firmly impacted in the pelvis. The pedicle is usually short and bears large vessels, so that much care is needed in securing it during ovariotomy. It is sometimes twisted without producing any severe symptoms such as are seen in twisted dermoid. Ovariotomy is the only treatment, and is very successful. Myoma of the Ovary is usually small; the author removed a small tumour of this kind where the uterus was free from "fibroids." On section the fibres were seen to be arranged in spherical nodules, like balls of worsted. About a dozen authentic cases have been recorded. Enchondroma. —Areas of cartilage, sometimes ossifying, have been detected between the fibres of an ovarian fibroma. One such tumour weighed over 14 lbs. (Beut, Union Medica, No. 4, 1900). Sarcoma and Carcinoma.—Through careful research, conducted on a large scale in Germany and Austria, pathologists have found that primary sarcoma is rarer in the ovary than primary carcinoma. In 307 cases of malignant tumour in the practice of Olshausen (Kratzen- stein's returns), Leopold, Martin, and Cohn, 69, or only a little over 22 per cent, were sarcomata. These figures and calculations, however, can never be thoroughly verified. Martin insists that endothelioma must be ranked under sarcoma, whilst Bland-Sutton feels certain that many tumours of the ovary described as primary carcinomata prove on careful examina- tion to be sarcomata. Sarcoma may be of the spindle-celled variety, then it is relatively firm, often blended with fibrous tissue, and of somewhat slow growth. This is the kind of tumour so difficult to dis- tinguish from fibroma of the ovary. The round-celled varieties form much softer and more malignant growths. There is also an angiosarcoma of the ovary, and an interesting variety, endothelioma, developed from the endo- thelium of the blood-vessels, or, in a sub- variety, from the endothelium of the lymphatics (Eckardt and Herz). An endothelioma may be firm (Pick), soft (Amann), or cystic (Olshausen). Cystic changes, bleeding and well-known retro- grade conditions, are frequent in sarcoma. Often sarcoma of the ovary is bilateral, more likely from metastasis from one ovary to its fellow than from simultaneous malignant in- fection. Sarcoma often forms a very large tumour which may be regular in outline to the last. Amenorrhoea and ascites tend to appear early. Metastatic deposits usually develop later than in cancer; but cystic sarcoma, especially when developing in a common glandular cyst, is clinically very malignant. The omentum and intestine are specially exposed to infection. Carcinoma appears to be the commoner form of malignant disease of the ovary. It may develop dii-ectly from the epithelial elements in that organ or from the common glandular cyst (malignant adenoma). Papilloma occasionally, but rarely, undergoes cancerous degeneration not to be confounded with implantation of papillomatous growth on viscera and peritoneum. Cancer tissue is often firm at first, but is apt to alter in consistence through the free develop- ment of cystic cavities, which is part of the cancerous process independent of any pre-existing innocent adenomatous cyst. The cancerousOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 207 ovary appears as a tumour, usually irregular in shape and consistence. In over 50 per cent of all cases this disease is bilateral, but, as in the case of sarcoma, simultaneous infection is doubt- ful (Martin). Cancer of the ovary is, as compared to uterine and mammary cancer, rather slow in growth. The pedicle isolates the tumour for a while; but when once the peritoneum becomes infected the disease advances rapidly and extends to the lumbar glands. Ascites and often amenorrhoea set in early, as in sarcoma. Ac/e a7id Malignant Ovaria7i Tumours.— Carcinoma, as well as sarcoma, seems distinctly most frequent in young girls a little over puberty, and at the menopause, but both diseases have been seen in infants and old women. Ovariotomy and Malignant Disease.—In the early stages the operation is easy, for malignant tumours are usually well peduncu- lated. When the tumour forms a fixed mass no attempt must be made to remove it. In the middle stages ovariotomy is practicable, but the mortality is high; nevertheless, it should be undertaken, for though recurrence is usually rapid, especially in cancer (Sanger, Pfannenstiel), about 40 per cent of the pa- tients live for over a year free from recurrence (Kratzenstein). The Pedicle. — A pedunculated ovarian tumour lies in the peritoneal cavity like a normal ovary. Its surface is not invested by any part of the peritoneum, not even by that portion which forms the broad ligament. It is connected with the uterus by the Fallopian tube, by its own "ovarian ligament," and by the mesosalpinx between the tube and the ligament, and is united to the peritoneum of the brim of the pelvis by the infundibulo- pelvic ligament which contains the ovarian vessels and joins the broad ligament. These connections together make up the "pedicle." The anatomy of the parts concerned (see " Broad Ligament, Diseases of") should be thoroughly understood by the surgeon. The big ovarian vessels lie in the outer border; and close to the inner border lies the anastomosis of a large branch from the ovarian, with another from the uterine artery. The Fallopian tube and meso- salpinx are nearly always hypertrophied in the pedicle of a common multilocular cyst, indeed in most cystic tumours; on the other hand, in many cases of solid and dermoid tumours no such overgrowth occurs, even when the tumour is very large. The operator can always recognise a true pedicle by the position of the tube and meso- salpinx, which are seen lying on the tumour, attached to, but distinct from it. The great majority of simple, multilocular, and adenomatous cysts, of dermoids, and of solid or semi-solid tumours, together with a minority of papillomatous cysts, are pedun- culated. Capsules, False and True.—In most cases a true capsule, that is to say, an investment of peritoneum which the tumour makes for itself, consists of the mesosalpinx alone. The surgical anatomy of the broad ligament is demonstrated in the article "Broad Ligament, Diseases of." A knowledge of the anatomy of capsules is of high importance to the surgeon. Fig. 1 is a diagram of the broad ligament seen in vertical section midway between the uterus and the pelvic wall. Fig. 2 shows how a simple or papillomatous cyst of broad ligament origin (such as the common "parovarian" tumour) is encapsuled in the mesosalpinx. In O.cv.— Fig. 1.—Normal relations of ovary to broad ligament and tube. O.cy. indicates position of an ordinary ovarian cyst, which does not burrow. The round ligament is indicated between A.l.mn. and A.l.iiim., but omitted in the other drawings, to avoid confusion. The lettering is fully explained under Fig. 4. Fig. 3 the mesosalpinx forms a capsule for a tumour (usually papillomatous) developed in the hilum or parenchyma of the ovary itself. Tumours with the mesosalpinx as a capsule can be recognised by the Fallopian tube which runs, greatly stretched, over the surface of the cap- sule. In Fig. 4 an ovarian, and in Fig. 5 a pure broad ligament cyst are represented en- capsuled not only in the mesosalpinx, but also in the mesometrium, that portion of the broad ligament which lies below the level of the ovary. In such cases the base of the tumour lies very low down in the pelvis below the normal level of the cervix uteri; the uterus is sometimes displaced upwards, lying flattened in the surface of the tumour. The tumour, as it rises, displaces the entire anterior layer of the broad ligament and its reflexion {R.p.) on to the abdominal wall. Hence the tumour is devoid of peritoneum over the greater part of its anterior aspect. The same relations are seen in "anterior tubo-ligamentary pregnancy" (Hart and Barbour, Taylor). Sometimes the208 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE tumour displaces the posterior layer of meso- metrium so as to become entirely retro-peri- toneal ; this is occasionally seen in the case of an ovarian cyst, and when the cyst is a tubal gestation sac it constitutes Taylor's " posterior Ov.- Fig. 2.—Common " parovarian " or broad ligament cyst in mesosalpinx tubo-ligamentary pregnancy." Fig. 6 represents an ovarian tumour burrowing into the meso- metrium alone. The author and others have operated in cases where this form of tumour was detected. It can be distinguished by the complete freedom of the mesosalpinx and tube, whilst the base of the cyst dips very deeply into the connective tissue of the pelvis. This is the usual form of encapsulation in fibroids of the broad ligament; in such a case not only the mesosalpinx and tube, but the ovary as well, lie on the tumour. The operator must remember that all tumours burrowing into the meso- metrium come into close relation with the ureter and also with the rectum. False Capsule.—Pawlik distinguishes a " pseudo-intraligamentary ovarian tumour." In this condition the tumour appears as though encapsuled between the folds of the broad ligament, when in reality the tube and mesosalpinx are plastered down on to the surface of the tumour by firm adhesions, and the lower parts of the tumour are strongly adherent to Douglas's pouch (Fig. 7). Complications.—The most remark- able complication associated with ovarian tumour is twisting of the pedicle, though not absolutely peculiar to this form of growth. It will there- fore be specially considered. Ascites occasionally develops in simple cases of common ovarian cyst; the author has observed much ascites where the cyst-wall was smooth, where no evidence of rupture existed, and where there was no trace of malignant growth or papilloma. In dermoid disease it is, for no evident reason, not common. In free papilloma and in papillary cysts, where some of the growths have perforated the cyst-wall, it is always present, and usually to an extensive degree. It is often present in fibroma, and develops early in all forms of malignant disease. When the patient suffers from a visceral disease which causes ascites, the presence of an ovarian tumour hastens the appearance of that compli- cation for evident reasons. Pleural effusion is, of course, grave when associated with carcinoma or sar- coma, but is not pathognomonic of ma- lignancy. Inflammation of the tumour is an im- portant complication, as it tends to the development of adhesions, and may end in suppuration. The clinical history is sometimes, but not always clear. There is usually fever and dull pain. These symptoms may be contrasted with the acute localised pain with general good health observed in typical cases of acute torsion of the pedicle. Suppuration of the tumour is mostly due to infection from adherent intestine. It is relatively common after labour, and a suppurating tube may infect a tumour. It has been observed to follow typhoid fever. —Af./ns. mm.. Fig. 3.—Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing in mesosalpinx (usually papillomatous) But inflammatory symptoms in a case of tumour of the ovary are usually due to local peritonitis, often primary, being caused by the irritation of a tumour itself free from any inflammatory process. Dermoids, seldom associated with ascites, are very apt to set up localised peritonitis, even209 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE when they are small. The same complication always appears when a common ovarian cyst is allowed to grow to a large size. Traumatism, the friction of the tumour against the viscera. A.l.ms. mm. I. mm. ovariotomy, a purely surgical question relating to abdominal operations in general. It has been assumed that the wounds which the operator necessarily inflicts during ovariotomy, etc., must inevitably be followed by adhesions. Kelterborn has shown that this idea is a fallacy. A series of experiments, in which pieces of parietal and visceral peritoneum were cauterised or snipped olT in animals under aseptic conditions, indicated that the wounds thus inflicted do not tend to con- tract adhesions. The healthy wound in a ruptured Graafian follicle never adheres. The stump of the ligatured ovarian pedicle bears a wounded surface, but though it may adhere even to intestine, it is often found, in second ovariotomies on the same subject, absolutely free from adhesions. Rujyture of an ovarian cyst is not rare. A single loculus often gives way, its outer wall being softened by small cysts in its substance, or by thrombosis of its vessels. Sometimes the same changes may cause a large, practically unilocular cyst to give way. Constitutional disturbance and paiti are absent, as a rule, in such cases. The patient notices that her abdomen has sud- Diuresis commonly follows the rupture; diarrhoea is not rare. In most instances the cyst fills again rather rapidly. The chief danger in rupture of a cyst is dissemination of solid contents. Even adenoid growths may thus become clini- cally malignant. Difl^usion of colloid matter Fig. 4.—Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing both in mesosalpinx and meso- metriiim. 0«., ovary. P., parametrium or pelvic connective tissue, shaded. A.l.ms., anterior layer of mesosalpinx. P.l.ms., posterior denlv o'rown Smaller, layer. jl,Z.m)«.., anterior layer of mesometrium (the part of the broad ^ ligament below the level of the ovary—Waldeyer). R.p., reflexion of peritoneimi from mesometrium on to the pelvis and abdominal wali. B.p., part of tumour bare of peritoneum. Ur., ureter. pregnancy, and many other causes, produce the complication. The treatment consists in absolute rest, antiphlogistics, and hot applications for a day or two, and then ovariotomy; but when there is a suspicion of sup- puration immediate removal of the tumour is demanded. Great care must be taken when tapping a sup- purating tumour during ovariotomy lest any of the contents escape into the peritoneal cavity. The removal of suppurating dermoids strongly ad- herent constitutes one of the most dangerous varieties of ovariotomy. Adhesions are the commonest re- sults of inflammation. Parietal ad- hesions are very common, omental nearly as frequent. In old, neglected, and malignant cases coils of small intestine may adhere strongly. Ad- hesions to the uterus and bladder are ^. not common, but they may be very in- £ timate. The surgeon must be careful to distinguish between adherent large intestine and close relation of large intestine to the tumour, when the latter has burrowed under peri- toneum. Exact diagnosis of adhesions is usually impossible, but presumptive evidence is strong when symptoms of chronic torsion or inflam- mation have been observed. As for treatment, it consists in their careful separation during VOL. VII Fig. 5.- Broad ligament cyst, not of ovarian origin, burrowing into mesosalpinx and mesometrium. is very prejudicial to the patient. The diff'usion of infected fluid material over the peritoneum after rupture is dangerous, but rare, as where the cyst has become infected there are usually protective adhesions. Lastly, rupture of the 14210 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE cyst from a blow or from hfemorrhage into its anterior may cause acute symptoms and even speedy death. The cardinal symptom in all these cases is the disappearance of abdominal swelling. Speedy operation is needed in all cases. rims. to divide itself gradually so that the tumour is cut off completely from its old attachments. The degree of torsion varies greatly—the pedicle may be twisted one-third of a turn, half a turn, or one, two, or three turns; all these condi- tions are frequent, and associated with varying degrees of tenseness. As many as twenty-five turns have been observed, but they rarely exceed three. Torsion is observed oftener in small than in large tumours ; relaxed abdominal walls, and, above all, pregnancy and labour predispose the patient to this complication. In several other kinds of abdominal tumour the pedicle may become twisted. A fibroid may twist the lower part of the uterus itself, a pedunculated fibi'oid may rotate round its pedicle. Pozzi reports torsion of a tubal gesta- tion sac at the end of the third month. Sub- botic, who has removed many spleens for malarial hypertrophy, finds that the pedicle is often twisted. Violent action of the abdominal muscles, falls, etc., may certainly be ranked among the causes. Straining during defsecation caused acute torsion in one case under the author's observation, but it is not certain how far the other factors in deftecation assist in FIG. 6,-Cyst of ovarian origin burrowing into raesometrium, leaving causing torsion. The emptying and filling of mesosaiDinx intact. s> _ r j o o Ov.— A..L mm I'i.mm..— mesosalpinx intact. Intracystic haemorrhage is rare, except in association with torsion of the pedicle; in the days of tapping it was more frequent. Occasionally quite a pint of fresh or old blood is found in a loculus. When the cyst bursts from and during haemorrhage, the result may be speedy death. An exploratory incision should always be made in a case where there are symptoms of internal haemor- rhage, with diminution in the size of the abdomen. If a ruptured or bleeding cyst be found, the pedicle should be clamped at once, and ligatured at leisure after all clots and fluid blood have been cleared away. Twisting of Pedicle : Axial Rotation OF Ovarian Tumours is a well-known com- plication. In its slighter forms the operator may fail to recognise this complication; on the other hand, a large cyst often rotates on its pedicle during emptying and extrac- tion in ovariotomy, so that the surgeon may be under the erroneous impression that the pedicle was twisted before the operation. Lehmann and Martin, taking all sources of error into consideration, make out the per- centage of twisted pedicle in all cases of ovarian tumour submitted to operation as between 5 and 7. Authorities are not agreed as to what is precisely meant by torsion from right to left, or vice versd, hence much confusion in monographs on this matter. The tumour drags on the ovarian ligament and then rotates. The torsion may be very loose so as to produce no effect on the tumour, or very tight so as to strangulate it at once, or the bladder may play a part in some cases. As to causes in the tumour itself, irregular growth, want of uniformity in weight at different parts, and a short narrow pedicle, greatly pre- dispose to torsion. Hence dermoids are specially subject to this complication, as are fibromata D.P— ad — Al.mm, mm. Fig. 7.—Pawlili's " pseudo-intraligamentary ovarian tumour." It is an ovarian cyst whicli, lilie O.cy. in Fig. 1, does not burrow, ad., ad- liesiODS plastering the tube and mesosalpinx and uniting the peri- toneum of Douglas's pouch (B.P.) to the cyst. and sarcomata of irregular form. In bilateral disease one tumour may twist the other, or, as in a case under the author's care, one tumour may undergo chronic rotation, the other be- coming suddenly twisted. Symptoms and Effects.—Acute torsion of the211 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE pedicle causes violent abdominal pain and tenderness with distension and vomiting. The presence of a tumour and the absence of positive symptoms of intestinal obstruction indicate the true nature of the case. The tumour becomes strangulated, deeply livid, with ecchymoses without and haemorrhage within. These ap- pearances have been mistaken for gangrene, just as the symptoms have led to the suspicion of strangulated hernia, ruptured ectopic gesta- tion sac, etc., and to the consequent discovery of an unsuspected ovarian tumour (Culling- worth). In typical chronic torsion the patient suffers from dull deep pains, and there is more or less arrest of the growth of the tumour without the impaiz'ment of health observed in chronic peritonitis. But adhesions always exist in these cases, and may involve further mischief, and diagnosis of chronic torsion is not always possible; menorrhagia is frequent in chronic torsion. Treatment.—An ovarian tumour should be removed; torsion of the pedicle is but one more reason for ovariotomy. In chronic torsion the operator will have little trouble with the atrophied, degenerate pedicle, but he may have to separate intimate adhesions. In acute torsion the pedicle must be carefully handled, and ligatured with special skill, as it is usually oedematous and its veins are dilated. Detachment of an Ovarian Tumour prom ITS Pedicle is an occasional result of chronic torsion. The tumour receives its nourishment from the omentum or from dense adhesions to the parietes and viscera. More frequently, when the tumour is thus nourished, the pedicle retains its attachment, but is reduced to a thin cord with obliterated vessels. This condition, as well as complete detachment, is usually associated with dermoids. Symptoms op Ovarian Tumour. — As long as such a growth is small, it may give rise to no painful or disagreeable symptoms, whether cystic or solid, pedunculated or sessile, innocent or malignant. It is therefore sometimes acci- dentally discovered during digital exploration of the pelvis. A small, freely movable oval body, not tender, often in such a case proves to be an ovarian cyst. On the other hand, Davenport and the author have published clinical reports of ovarian tumours simulating inflamed ovaries, loose or fixed in the pelvis. Diagnosis without watching the case for a short time is often impossible. If the pain ceases, but the swelling grows larger, it is very probably an ovarian tumour; if the swelling disappears with the pain, that swelling was more probably an inflamed ovary. A typical ovarian cyst when it has risen above the pelvic brim is usually very character- istic. It forms an oval movable mass, well circumscribed, occupying the hypogastrium, iliac, and umbilical regions, and sometimes reaching to the epigastrium, or even extending into the loins. It fluctuates more or less distinctly, and the pulsations of the aorta are not transmitted to it through the stethoscope. On bimanual palpation it can be felt in front of the uterus, its base just coming into the pelvic brim. Any one, and often several of the above features may, however, be absent. Thus it may be very irregular in outline, it may be bound by adhesions down into one iliac fossa or loin ; sometimes intestine gets between its lower limits and the pubis; fluctuation or thrill on percussion may be absent if it be very multilocular. A cyst with a long pedicle some- times manages to get behind the uterus, which is pushed up above the pubis so as to lie on the surface of the tumour, a condition usually associated with completely sessile cysts. A cyst with a very short pedicle drags on the uterus, so that the two appear to move to- gether as though they were one. Hence the cyst may be taken for a uterine tumour, more especially when, as is frequently the case, the uterine cavity is elongated. The catamenia remain perfectly normal as a rule, but menor- rhagia is sometimes noted, especially after twisting of the pedicle or other complications, whilst amenorrhoea is often observed in young subjects when the ovarian tumour is malignant. Unless it has ruptured and begun to refill, an ovarian cyst is usually tense, often so tense as to feel solid. Flaccidity, with fluctuation, is more usual in parovarian cysts. Solid ovarian tumours present many of the clinical features of ovarian cysts above described, allowance being made for their solidity, which usually transmits pulsations and involves absence of fluctuation. Fibroma and myoma advance very slowly, much slower than cysts, and are occasionally associated with ascites; malignant ovarian tumours grow more rapidly than cysts, and peritoneal eff'usion sets in early. Papillo- matous tumours grow quickly, and even the most innocent may cause great peritoneal eff'u- sion. Dermoids grow slowly, feel doughy to the touch, and are seldom associated with ascites, but are very apt to be complicated by peritonitis and twisted pedicle, causing, or in- dependent of, the peritonitis. As the tumour grows larger the chance of some of the complications above related taking place becomes greater. The bulk causes pres- sure symptoms, hence oedema of the legs, and, in common ovarian cysts, late dropsy, once very often observed, now rare because of timely operating. As might be expected, dyspnoea becomes very distressing. Hypertrophy and dilatation of the heart has been detected in many advanced cases. The author, referring to a large series of necropsies which he made between 1877 and 1882, finds that chronic in- flammatory kidney disease is extremely common in these advanced and neglected cases nowOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 212 rarely seen. All these complications, together with constant mental worry and physical ex- haustion, ultimately cause death. Many cases die within two or three years of the first de- tection of the tumours, yet some, it must be admitted, used to live twenty or thirty years after repeated tappings. The author observed one case of this kind that lived for over forty years after innumerable tappings, refusing operation. She died very suddenly during an attack of dyspncea, with suppression of urine. Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumour. — A fair consideration of the above clinical symptoms renders diagnosis of an ovarian cyst, or even of a solid tumour of the ovary, fairly easy ; but these symptoms, as well as many complications and exceptions, must be studied, and afterwards carefully borne in mind when any one patient is examined. Myoma of Uterus or Fibroid." — In this disease the tumour forms part of the uterus, and is solid and elastic; the uterine cavity is elongated; menorrhagia is present in certain varieties. When the cervix is involved diagnosis is not difficult; but a pedunculated subserous myoma, without evidence of any other similar growth in the uterus, and with little enlarge- ment of that organ, cannot always be distin- guished from a solid ovarian tumour. Uterine myoma grows slowly. Cystic myoma is not easy to distinguish from burrowing semicystic ovarian tumours ; in a uterine cyst, however, the cervix, or the region near the cervix, is often involved. There are, however, fallacies about this symptom, as an ovarian growth burrowing under the peritoneum may appear on touch to involve the cervix. Bilateral solid tumours of the ovary have often been taken for multiple pedunculated myoma of the uterus. In the ovarian affection, however, the uterus will be found on careful bimanual palpation to be completely free from both tumours. Parovarian cysts are more flaccid than true ovarian cysts, and their walls are clearly very thin. Tapping for diagnosis is not justifiable. There is no certain method for diagnosing a pathologically ovarian from a pathologically parovarian cyst when either burrows in the broad ligament. In both cases the uterus may be drawn up very high on the front of the tumour. Dilated Fallopian tube seldom rises high above the pelvic brim ; whether a hydro- salpinx or a pyosalpinx it is nearly always associated with a distinct history of pelvic pain and inflammation, the pain often subsiding whilst the tube distends. An ovarian cyst rarely gives pain at first, and often causes suffering when large. The dilated tube curls behind the cervix, its exti-emity lying in Douglas's pouch. Pregnancy nivist be always borne in mind, more especially when complicated with hydra^n- nion. Yet experienced authorities have taken even simple pregnancy for ovarian tumour. Remember that in cases of malignant ovarian disease in young girls amenorrhoea often sets in early, and the tumour grows quickly. Multiple hydatids of the ome7itum feel, through the abdominal wall, like potatoes; they are clearly separate, unlike the loculi of an ovarian cyst. They are also unconnected with the pelvic viscera, but there are sometimes hydatids in the pelvis also. Hydatid of the liver and dilated gall-bladder must be remembered when a cyst is detected in the right side of the abdomen. Real difficulty may be encountered when an ovarian tumour, especially a cyst, lies displaced and adherent in one flank, or in the epigastrium. In the first case renal tumour may be suspected. This tumour, however, develops posteriorly and superiorly, and grows downwards and forwards, and the colon lies in front of it; but adherent gut sometimes lies in front of a laterally dis- placed ovarian tumour. A small dermoid or simple ovarian cyst lying near the epigastrium or behind the umbilicus must be distinguished from a cyst or solid tumour of the pancreas^ where marked special clinical symptoms are usually present. Phantom tumours are resonant on percussion, especially if the patient be well purged before examination. The abdominal muscles contract firmly when touched, so that a solid tumour may be suspected. On bimanual palpation under antesthesia the fingers of both hands can be made to meet, no tumour lying between them, and the uterus and appendages feel free from disease. Distended bladder must not be overlooked. The nature of ascites and its morbid associa- tions are well known. When the patient lies on her back there is resonance anteriorly and dulness in the flanks; when she lies on one side there will be resonance over the opposite or upper side; whilst in ovarian cysts the dulness lies anteriorly, and there is usually clear resonance in both flanks in any position. In constipated subjects with an ovarian cyst one or both flanks may be dull on percussion. Adherent gut in front of the cyst will be resonant. Encysted dropsy (anterior) is as- sociated with anterior dulness and resonance in the flanks, as is cyst of the iirachus. The former disease is generally associated with tubercular peritonitis or pelvic inflammation, the latter is very rare. The urachal cyst lies over the middle line between the umbilicus and pubis, and is quite fixed. When it discharges urine through the umbilicus it betrays its character at once, though in one instance (Unterberger) it was taken at first for rupture of an ovarian cyst through the umbilicus. Solid hepatic and sj)lenic tumours and solid tumours of the mesentery and spleen ought not to be mistaken for solid ovarian tumours. TheOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 213 pelvic organs will be found free on examination ; but complications often deceive. Treatment of Ovarian Tumours.—An ovarian tumour should be removed when diagnosed. The author has referred, at the beginning of the paragraphs on Symptoms of Ovarian Tumours, to cases detected very early; the surgeon must not be in a hurry to remove an ovary which may be simply swollen through inflammation. He has also devoted a former paragraph to Ovariotomy and Malignant Disease. Tapping is very objectionable, and only justified in the case of a patient subject to a large cyst and attacked with acute pulmonary disease, the cyst causing dangerous dyspnoea. Thoracic visceral disorders and renal or hepatic disease are not contra-indica- tions to ovariotomy unless they be advanced, for they are aggravated by the presence of the tumour. Even diabetic subjects bear ovari- otomy, but only if carefully treated for a month or two first. Ovariotomy during pregnancy is highly successful, though it demands special care, whilst ovarian cysts are apt to undergo serious changes in the puerperium. In short, there is no treatment for ovarian tumour but ovariotomy. Ovariotomy.—The general principles guiding the surgeon in abdominal operations will be found under the proper headings in this work. Ovariotomy is in some cases an opera- tion of extreme ease and safety. In others, especially when the tumour is malignant or dermoid and strongly adherent, it may be veiy difficult and fatal in spite of the most skilful operating and the most careful after- treatment. It is best, but not absolutely necessary when there is urgency, not to operate during men- struation. The patient should be placed in the Trendelenburg posture whenever it is cer- tain or probable that any part of the tumour is connected by adhesions, or by burrowing, with the pelvis. When it is clear that the tumour is chiefly one large cyst, with healthy fluid contents, a 3-inch incision through the middle line is quite sufficient for its extraction after tapping. Under other circiimstances the abdominal wound should be made larger, nor should the surgeon scruple to enlarge it further in the course of the operation if necessary. He must make sure that he has opened the peritoneum, and not taken it for a cyst-wall. Strong anterior parietal adhesions demand great care during separation. The tapping of a cyst is not difficult, but loculi may require breaking down with the hand. This manoeuvre must not be done too slowly, as it causes hfemorrhage into the cyst. Sponges should be packed in the peritoneal cavity around the trocar, especially if there be the least suspicion of infected cyst contents. The collapsed cyst or the solid tumour must be carefully freed from adhesions before complete extraction. Detached omentum should always be ligatured, else it may ooze, and oozing encourages sepsis. When in separating adherent intestine its serous coat is torn, that coat must be sutured. Small lacerations laying open the intestinal canal may be safely treated by sutures carefully applied ; but extensive damage will requii'e resection of the injured gut. The enucleation of a sessile tumour requires the surgeon to bear in mind the anatomy of the pelvis. The fundus uteri is the best land- mark, and the peritoneal relations of the large intestine to the tumour must be carefully inspected. There is often much oozing from the capsule whicli requires ligature of vessels, pressure by sponges, and, in bad cases, drainage by tube or gauze. When there is a pedicle, the outer border, containing the ovarian artery with its big A'eins, should always be tied separately. The pedicle is tlien transfixed, a loop of No. 3 silk being passed through it. The loop is cut, the two silk threads thus formed are crossed on one side; then the ends of one thread are tied well into the groove made by the ligature of the ovarian vessels, and the ends of the other thread tied close to the corner of the uterus. Sometimes a double transfixion is necessary. In very wide pedicles the inner like the outer border should be tied sepai-ately. The pedicle must always be relaxed whenever a ligature is being tied. The free use of the pressure-forceps to bleed- ing points on the parietal peritoneum, etc., is specially advisable in ovariotomy. It avoids the leaving of too many ligatures in the peri- toneal cavity; but great care must be taken lest a forceps be left in that cavity. Flushing of the peritoneum, closure of the abdominal wound, drainage, and after-treatment are conducted according to the general rules of abdominal surgery. Drainage is seldom neces- sary. Flushing, or " irrigation" with saline solution, is never needed in a simple case; but it is very beneficial in bad cases where there is shock, and where much enucleation or separa- tion of adhesions is practised. In such cases two or three pints of the solution should be left in the peritoneal cavity. Results of Ovariotomy.—The operator, should he be in a position to perform ovariotomy on a naturally assorted series, may attain a mortality of under 5 or 6 per cent. Under certain con- ditions, however, the chance of death must always be strong. Amongst the most un- favourable cases are adherent dermoids, where the fatty and solid contents have partially in- vaded adjacent viscera and peritoneum, and malignant tumours closely united to intestine. In Olshausen's practice the mortality of ovari- otomy for malignant tumour was 28 per cent. Complications following Ovariotomy.—AsOVARIES, DISEASES OF THE 214 this operation once took the lead in abdominal surgery, much that applies to that branch of our art was for long too exclusively associated with ovariotomy. Many too well known com- plications are in no sense special eftects of the removal of ovarian tumours. Hence for fuller details on saprtemia, septicaemia, peritonitis, and intestinal obstruction, the reader is referred to their proper headings. Hceriiorrhage and HcBmatoma. — Internal h?emorrhage within twenty-four hours after ovariotomy is the result of slipping of the ligature, excepting, perhaps, in a very few cases where a large vein is wounded during trans- fixing. It has been known to follow the opera- tion alike where the loop-knot, the double inter- locking-knot, the Staffordshire knot, and the ligature of both sides of the pedicle separately without interlocking, have been practised. It may be that in one or two instances a ligature has snapped after the completion of the opera- tion ; but as a rule it is the pedicle that slips from under the knot. The accident is due either to faulty tying of the knot, cutting of the pedicle too short, or dragging on the pedicle too much during ligature. When the pedicle is relaxed by the assistant the operator often fails to pull the knot tight enough, especially when the parts sink after relaxation deeply in the pelvis, so that the ends of the silk are badly placed for manipulation. Manoeuvres with sponges, etc., deep in the pelvis, at the end of the operation, have sometimes caused the ligature to slip imobserved, or have torn one border of the pedicle. The symptoms are those of internal haemor- rhage, usually very marked. They come on from about two to twelve hours after the operation, and there is often the familiar re- mission for a time after each attack of syncope. No treatment is of avail but the immediate reopening of the wound, securing of the pedicle with forceps, clearing out clots and fluid blood, and religature of the pedicle. Infusion of saline solution may be necessary. Hcematovia of the broad ligament is the result of wounding a big vessel by a too sharply pointed needle during transfixion and ligature. This complication may cause fatal haemorrhage by displacing the ligature, but a more frequent result is suppui-ation of the clot during the second or third week, probably from its prox- imity to the i-ectum. The symptoms are occa- sionally mistaken for parametritis. Sometimes a vaginal incision is necessary. Pure septiccemia is occasionally seen, especially after the removal of suppurating adherent dermoids or malignant tumours extremely ad- herent to small intestine. It is marked by a considerable rise of temperature, a great rise with weakening of the pulse, and the appearance of the bad general symptoms of septic infection. The urine becomes albuminous, and is at length suppressed. The tongue not rarely remains moist to the last, abdominal distension and re- tention of the flatus may be trifling or absent, and there may be little or no sickness. The patient may tolerate fluids by the mouth, but the stomach neither rejects nor absorbs them. The above combination of symptoms is of the gravest importance. Septicaemia is usually associated with peri- tonitis, recognised by three symptoms variable in relative degree—vomiting, tympanites, and retention of flatus. The tongue soon gets dry. Sometimes peritonitis comes on during the second or third week. Acute septic peritonitis is a trifle less fatal, and is much more manageable than pure septicaemia. The ejection of green or dark vomit should be encouraged by doses of warm water and soda, the patient should be fed by enemata, and above all the passage of flatus promoted. For this purpose gruel and turpentine enemata are efficacious. Saline purgatives are too often vomited. When flatus comes away freely the special symptoms of sepsis nearly always diminish in proportion. Intestinal Obstruction is frequently seen in the form of pseudo-ileus, paralysis, and dis- tension, with kinking of coils of gut. This condition is intimately associated with sepsis and peritonitis. Acute mechanical obstruction sometimes sets in during the second or third week, but is oftener a remote result of ovari- otomy. Intestine is apt to adhere to the pedicle, or the omentum gets attached to the pedicle and indirectly causes obstruction. Early obstruction has been relieved by operation ; but the operator must be careful about diagnosis, as secondary opei'ations are very unsuccessful in cases where pseudo-ileus exists, while enemata and purgatives not rarely save the case. Instruments, etc., left in Peritoneal Cavity.— This accident is very common in abdominal section, and especially ovariotomy, where enu- cleation, the separation of vascular adhesions, and the securing of bleeding points require the use of many sponges and forceps. Fortunately, the oversight is often recognised just as the patient has been put to bed, then reopening of the wound and removal of the foreign body involves but little danger. Trustworthy and experienced assistants and nurses may make mistakes through confusion, rather than care- lessness. The unobserved loss of a forceps or sponge down a sink during operation causes intolerable anxiety. Schauta, on two occasions, reopened the peritoneinn for a pad that had not been left there. In one case the operator's signet ring was left in Douglas's pouch, whence it was removed through the vagina. Neuge- bauer has collected no less than 108 cases of instruments left behind after abdominal section, from reports by unusually candid operators. His statistics show that the foreign body should be extracted directly it is missed, the mortality215 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE if it be left alone being very high. Out of 19 cases of pressure-forceps left behind, 7 died, 6 shortly after operation. Sponges do deadly harm; out of 29 cases the sponge was found at the post-mortem in 19. Out of 31 cases, where the foreign body was a gauze pad or compress, the gauze was found after death in 7. When the patient lives unrelieved the fate of the foreign body is very uncertain. Sponges and drainage-tubes have slipped out of the abdominal wound at a dance, etc. A pressure-forceps has been passed at stool in 3 cases. As a rule the foreign body gets into the intestinal canal. Paralysis is rare, and seems nearly always due to embolism. In Schramm's case the pelvis was elevated at the operation, the patient was single and aged forty-four, the tumour a small adeno-carcinoma. Facial palsy and paralysis of the left arm occurred on the second day and gradually passed off during convalescence {Trans. Dresden Gynoec. Soc, Oct. 1899). Thrombosis.—The external saphenous vein is apt to get plugged if the patient leaves her bed too soon; the leg then swells considerably. Rest, bandaging, and elevation of the limb usually effect a cure. When thrombosis sets in early after a deep enucleation, or after any other complicated ovariotomy, the progress is very grave. At the worst thrombosis is un- common after ovariotomy, and much more frequent after any form of hysterectomy. Tetanus.—Sixty-four cases of this complica- tion were collected and tabulated by John Phillips in 1892. Martin and others have re- ported a few cases since that date. Asepsis is the true prophylactic against tetanus. Rashes are due to irritating perspiration, the contact of blankets against the skin, and soap and water enemata. The mottled rash in septic cases is a grave symptom. Jamidice, purely catarrhal, occurs in some patients during con- valescence. When associated with septic symp- toms it is extremely serious, but simple sallow- ness of the skin in mild septic cases is often mistaken for jaundice. Parotitis occasionally follows ovariotomy and other abdominal sections. Stephen Paget, Martin and Riitterman and others, have written on this complication. In a case in the author's practice the tongue was foul, and there were carious molars on the aflfected side. No sup- puration occurred. In some cases this complica- tion ends in periostitis and necrosis of the in- ferior maxilla. Acute Mania has been observed after ovari- otomy, but its relative frequency after that operation has been exaggerated. Barwell, Pozzi, Gaillard Thomas, and Butler-Smythe have written on the subject. As a rule the symptoms are mild, and unless the patient is predisposed to insanity ultimate cure is com- plete. Halliday Groom reports a case where the symptoms appeared on the third day, and death took place on the sixth. The operation was perfectly simple : the opposite ovary was healthy, and therefore not removed, and there was no evidence of sepsis. A distant relative was weak-minded. Mania follows other opera- tions ; it is not certain in these cases how far it is due to shock, and how far to removal of a particular organ, the ovary. Tumours of the Ovarian Ligament.—This ligament includes fibrous and muscular tissue, and anatomically and pathologically belongs to the uterus, but it may contain detached pieces of ovarian substance; the significance of this fact has been noted in the paragraphs on the Physiology of the Ovary. Clinically and surgi- cally, tumours of this ligament are ovarian rather than uterine. True fibromas of the ovarian ligament have been successfully re- moved by Doleris, Briggs, and the author. The tumour weighed over 16 lbs. in the author's case; the ovaries and uterus were free from anj' new growth. This case (and possibly others) has been included amongst pedunculated tu- mours of the broad ligament in tables prepared by Gross, Vautrin, and Lang. Penrose (New York) removed a tumour which he reports as a sarcoma of the ovarian ligament; it was stony hard (like a fibroma), and weighed 5 lbs. These tumours are easily removed; when large it is safer to take away the ovary as well, but in Doleris's case it was saved. Broad Ligament Cysts. — Dilated lymph spaces form irregular bullte, yellowish in colour and thin-walled. They are lined internally with endothelium, and when the broad ligament is divided, drain away. They are clearly due to obstruction, and are often very prominent in cases of large uterine fibroid. The author has twice opened a cyst in the broad ligament, which he found to contain several pints of a lymph-like fluid. In each case the cyst bur- rowed deeply into the broad ligament below the ovary, and was lined with endothelium, or rather consisted of endothelium lining a cavity, which was the result of the dilatation of a lymph space. Drainage was necessary in both cases, as the base of a cyst of this kind cannot be extirpated. The parovarian or simple hroad ligament cyst is much more familiar both to the operator and the pathologist. Its histogenesis has been and is still much disputed. Most observers consider that, like papillomatous cysts of the ovary, it arises from relics of the mesonephron. The parovarian cyst, however, arises from those relics which lie between the folds of the broad ligament, and constitute the parovarium. But Kossmann's theory has been noted already in the paragraph on Histogenesis of the Papillo- matous Cyst. He insists that the simple parovarian cyst, free from any trace of papillary growth, has nothing to do with the tubes of the parovarium, but rises from Miillerian216 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE elements like the Fallopian tube. These relics (" Nebentuben," accessory tubes) sometimes develop as cystic cavities, lined like the tubal canal with ciliated epithelium, and enlarging become what is (falsely, in his opinion) known as parovarian cysts. Sometimes papillomata grow from the epithelial investment, and thus, in Kossmann's opinion, originate the papillo- matous cysts of the broad ligament independent of the ovary. The present author wrote, in 1884, that "it might be contended that some of the minute non-parovarian cysts are developed from Miiller's duct, which ultimately becomes the Fallopian tube. There is no evidence, however, that any true Fallopian cyst has ever been formed." Kossmann, on the other hand, declares that there is not the slightest evidence that a " parovarian " cyst lias ever been actually traced from a dilated parovarian tube. The development of a cyst of this kind from its earliest stage is difficult to note with accuracy. There is need of farther research. When large, the parovarian or simple broad ligament cyst is a very characteristic growth. It occupies the greater part of the mesosalpinx, so that the Fallopian tube and its fimbrise are stretched over its upper surface, whilst the ovary generally hangs freely from its lower surface, but sometimes is stretched or more often extremely flattened through pressure. Occasionally (not so often as in the case of papillomatous cyst of the broad ligament) this cyst burrows into the mesometrium. The wall of the parovarian cyst is often very thin, but proportionally tough and fibrous. It is lined with epitheliimi, often cubical from pressure, but originally, there can be little doubt, columnar and ciliated. It is almost invariably imilocular. It contains a clear watery fluid, often to the amount of several pints, of very low specific gravity, rich in chlorides, but free from albumin. It can be peeled entirely out of the folds of the broad ligament. It is liable to rupture, in which case there is little or no local or constitutional disturbance; indeed, spontaneous cure may ensue. The same has followed tapping. Symptcmis and Diagnosis.—The parovarian cyst often causes nothing but physical symptoms, which last for months without complications. A flaccid or moderately tense cystic swelling develops and rises above the pubis. It is freely movable, and the uterus is quite distinct; in many cases the ovary can also be felt dis- tinctly below it; this proves its true nature. It is very common ; many cases where the ovary is flattened out on its surface have been registered as "ovarian." If neglected it may set up peri- tonitis or may suppurate, and it is certainly apt to imdergo papillomatous degeneration. Treatment.—Keith used to tap parovarian cysts, and in many cases permanent cure ensued. But a cyst of this kind has been tapped seven times, and then had to be removed; it is, too, a morbid growth best taken away, as not rarely it contains papillomatous elements. Its removal is easy and successful, whilst the extir- pation of a papilloma is difficult, dangerous, and not rarely followed by recurrence. It should be removed, therefore, by ovariotomy—that is to say, it must be tapped after exposure through the abdominal wound, drawn out of the abdomen, and its pedicle ligatured and then divided. This pedicle is the same as in ovariotomy. The author has in several cases, where the patient was young, enucleated a parovarian cyst through an incision in the mesosalpinx, afterwards closed by suture. The tube and ovary were thus spared. When the cyst burrows into the mesometrium, below the level of the ovary, enucleation cannot be avoided. There is often much oozing, which must be checked. Pajnllomatoiis cyst of the broad ligament is very similar to papillomatous ovarian cyst already described, but the ovary is uninvolved. Its histogenesis is practically the same, and it certainly may develop from a simple parovarian cyst. It burrows very deeply under the broad ligament, and pushes the uterus far upwards and forwards. It is never freely movable, often fixed, and always lies chiefly on one side. It is apt to produce pain from pressure. By the above characters it may be diagnosed. In shape it is usually oval; it is often bilateral. If left alone it ultimately ruptures, and its papillomatous contents soon become dissemi- nated, with fatal results. This kind of cyst must be removed directly it is diagnosed. It must be carefully and thoroughly enucleated from the broad ligament, hjemorrhage from which must be stopped by the free use of pressure-forceps. Sometimes this process proves easy; as a rule it is difficult, much blood is lost, and papillomatous masses are often left behind deep in the pelvis. The ureter may be torn or cut. In bilateral cases, total removal of the uterus with the cysts may be required; the danger of damaging the ureters is, however, very great if that radical operation be done. The patient should always be placed in the Trendelenburg posture when a papillomatous cyst of the broad ligament is removed, so that plenty of light may be turned on to the pelvic cavity. Solid tumotirs of the broad ligament are noted under Broad Ligament, Diseases of the. " Fibroid " or myoma of the ligament is really distinct from uterine "fibroid," but is iisually classed with that well-known morbid growth. Primary dermoid cyst of pelvic connective tissue is closely allied to the retroperitoneal dermoid which has been found in males (Ord and Sewell, Lexer). It is like to ovarian dermoid cyst, and non-malignant, unlike ovarian teratoma. It of necessity tends to invade the mesometrium.217 OVARIES, DISEASES OF THE not the mesosalpinx, and burrows as far as the perineum or upwards into the abdomen. Beyea has collected notes on twenty-one cases. In his own case the patient was thirty-eight; both her ovaries had been removed twelve years previously, the catamenia ceasing at once. He enucleated the dermoid from the right broad hgament, but hsemorrhage could not be con- trolled until he amputated the uterus above the cervix. The patient recovered. Page of Newcastle operated on a woman aged forty- seven ; the cyst reached to the umbilicus, and lay behind the rectum. He made a semilunar incision six inches long, its centre lying midway between the anus and coccyx. After extracting hair and putty-like material. Page successfully enucleated the cyst. Since that operation (1891) several tumours of that class have been removed through a perineal incision, and several, including Beyea's case, by abdominal section. Page relates that he was able to pass his hand and the greater part of his forearm through the perineal wound into the cavity of the cyst. Primary Ovarian Pregnancy The possibility of this condition is now ad- mitted by several authorities, who till recently insisted that all ectopic pregnancies were prim- arily tubal. Van Tussenbroek, after careful examination of an ovary removed by Kouwer, found that a foetal sac of the size of a cob-nut lay on its surface. This sac held a minute foetus with amnion and chorion complete. British and foreign authorities who have ex- amined this specimen agree with Van Tussen- broek's interpretation of its nature. The rupture of the sac caused severe intraperitoneal haemorrhage, though the pregnancy was under the sixth week. Patenko's case, described many years earlier, was probably genuine. Anning and Littlewood's case, reported in January 1901, is of high clinical interest. The patient under- went operation for rupture of the sac. About two pints of fluid blood and clot were removed, and an ovum no bigger than a large pea was detected amidst the clot. There was a rent in the right ovary; into this the ovum and its sac exactly fitted; the corresponding tube was normal. The patient recovered. The ovary is preserved in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Another authentic case was reported in 1900 by Octavius Croft of Leeds. The sac and its contents, found entire, were removed by abdominal section; it ruptured during extraction and much haemor- rhage ensued, difficult to check; the patient died within a few days. The sac before rupture contained an ovum of about the fourth month with placenta, membranes, and amniotic fluid; the relations of the sac were those of an ovarian cyst with a short pedicle; the Fallopian tube was healthy. Hastings Gilford's alleged case is still under examination. Thus it seems evident that primary ovarian pregnancy may occur, and that as a rule it is most probably arrested at a very early stage (Van Tussenbroek, Anning and Littlewood), yet may continue at least to the fourth month (Croft). The bleeding from the rupture may be very severe, even very early in pregnancy (Kouwer, Anning and Littlewood), whilst when gestation is more advanced and the sac is capacious, its connections are full of large vessels, so that severe hsemorrhage will occur when it is extirpated (Croft). Some cases re- ported many years ago as " ruptured ovarian apoplexy" may have been primary ovarian pregnancies. When the pregnancy is advanced it is not easy to prove that it was primarily ovarian. If the corresponding tube be normal, it does not follow that the ovum did not originally develop in its canal, for when the tube expels an ovum out of its ostium it rapidly regains its natural appearance. The ovary is occasionally flattened out widely over the wall of a big extra-uterine sac, but that is no proof that the sac arose from the interior of that organ. {See also " Ectopic Gestation," vol. iii. pp. 13, 22). Ovariin and Ovarine. — Prepara- tions made from the ovaries of the cow and the pig, recommended in cases in which the ovarian secretion is believed to be defective or absent, e.g. after an artificial menopause from removal of the ovaries, etc. See also Varium. OvariO-. — in compound words ovario- (Lat. ovarium, ovary) means relating to the ovaries; e.g. ovariocele (hernia of the ovary), ovariocyesis (ectopic ovarian pregnancy), ovario- epilepsy, ovario-toxines, etc. Ovariotomy.—Removal of an ovary or of the ovaries by abdominal or (less often) vaginal section ; the organ or organs so removed are generally in a markedly diseased state {e.g. cystic degeneration), the term noj'mal ovari- otomy being given to those cases in which the ovaries are removed although showing no morbid naked-eye changes; it is better, however, to restrict the term ovariotomy to operations for the removal of diseased ovaries, and to give that of oophorectomy to the cases in which the glands in an apparently healthy state are removed in order to bring about a menopause. See Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovariotomy). Ovaritis.—Inflammation of the ovaries ; oophoritis. See Ovaries, Diseases op {Inflame mation). Ovary. See Ovaries, Diseases of, and cross-references. Overcrowd i ng". — Overcrowding, espe- cially the occupation of one-roomed houses by whole families, has a prejudicial effect uponOVERCROWDING 218 the public health : it is dealt with (but not defined) under the Public Health Act of 1875 (England and Wales). In lodging-houses 300 cubic feet of air space must be provided for each person above ten years of age, and 400 cubic feet in sleeping rooms. See Typhus Fever {Etiology). Over-Exertion. See Heart, Diseases OF Myocardium and Endocardium {General Pathology, Etiology, Mechanical). Overlaying^ or Overlying^. See Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia, Suffocation, Smothering and Overlaying). See also Asphyxia {Causes, Suffocation and Over- laying). Overtime.—By Sanitary Law the matter of working overtime in factories, workshops, etc. is dealt with and regulated. Oviducts. See Fallopian Tubes. Oviparous.—Giving birth to eggs; in oviparous animals the young one is expelled from the iiterus at an earlier stage of develop- ment than is the case in viviparous animals, and a stage of incubation has to follow before the young one is mature. Ovisac.— The Graafian follicle of the human ovary. See Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries, Microscojncal A];>pearances). OVO-.—In compound words ovo- (Lat. ovum, an egg) means relating to the egg or ovum. Ovoferrin.—A preparation said to consist largely of organic iron ; it is given (in doses of 2 drachms) as a blood tonic. Ovoid.—Egg-shaped, elliptical; the term fa;tal ovoid is given to the mass formed by the foetus in utero, which, on account of the attitude of flexion of the foetus, is ovoid in shape—the larger end of the ovoid being formed by the breech and lower limbs of the infant, the smaller by the head. See Labour, Physiology of {Passenger, Disposition in Utero). Ovotestis.—The name given to the sexual gland in some cases of hermaphroditism, in which it consists of an ovarian portion and of a testicular portion, so far, at any rate, as their anatomical appearances go; in some invertebrate animals the ovotestis would seem to produce both ova and spermatozoa. Ovula Nabothi. See Nabothian Cysts or Follicles. Ovulation.—The series of changes which take place in the ovary when a Graafian follicle matures, when dehiscence of it takes place, when it passes from the ovary into tlie Fallopian tube and so on into the uterus, and when the empty follicle becomes a corpus biteum ; so ovulation comprises four processes—those of maturation of the ovum, dehiscence of the ovisac, migration of the ovum, and formation of the corpus luteum. See FcETUS AND Ovum, Development of ; Genera- tion, Female Organs op {Ovaries); Menstrua- tion AND ITS Disorders {Relation to Ovulation); Sterility {Etiology, Defective Ovulation). Ovum.—The egg (plural, ova). See Foetus AND Ovum, Development of ; Pregnancy, Path- ology OF, Ovum and Decidua {Apoplectic Ova, etc.); Teratology {Diseases of the Ovum). Oxal-.—In compound words oxal- {oxalis, wood-sorrel) means relating to oxalic acid or to the radical oxalyl (C^O.,). Oxalsemia. — The somewhat problem- atical state of the blood in which it is believed to show the presence of oxalates. Oxalan. See Alloxan. Oxalates.—^ Salts of oxalic acid, e.g. oxalate of calcium, of ammonium, of cerium, and of sodiima. Oxalates occur in nature in wood-sorrel {oxalis acetosella), rhubarb, lichens, etc. ; they may be present in excessive amount in the urine {oxaluria) and in the sputum. See Expectoration {Microscojncal Examination, Crystals); Hemoglobinuria {Urine); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sediments, Calcium Oxalate). Oxalic Acid.—A poisonous acid (CgH.^O^ or C2O22HO) of the dibasic series, from which various salts are formed (oxalates); the oxalic acid diathesis is that state of the body in which there is a tendency to the formation of oxalate of lime in the urine. See G^sophagus, Injuries AND Diseases {Inflammation, Causes) ; Physi- ology, Excretion {Urine Composition, Oxalic Acid), Toxicology {Inorganic Poisons, Cor- rosives, Oxalic Acid); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Oxaluria). Oxaluria.—The presence in the urine of oxalate of lime in excessive amount. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Oxaluria). See also Gout {Irregular Gout, Renal System); Liver, Diseases of {Hyperoemia, Tropical Liver, Signs, Oxaluria); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases OF {Testalgia, Causes); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symp)tomatology, Urinary Symptoms); Urethra, Diseases of {Inflam- mation, Causes). Oxal uric Acid.—An acid (monobasic) having the formula C3H^N204, and believed to be constituted of oxalic acid and urea minus water; its salts are termed oxalurates. Ox Gall. See Fel Bovinum Purificatum.219 OXIDATION Oxidation.—The combination of another substance with oxygen, e.g. when the other substance is another element the result is an oxide; conversion into an oxygen compound. Oxidase or oxydase is the substance inherent in living tissues {e.g. columnar epithelium) which can set free active oxygen. Oxy-.—In compound words oxy- (Gr. 6^s, sharp or acid) usually means sharp or keen {e.g. oxycanthous, with sharp thorns); in other cases it is the combining form of oxygen {e.g. in oxy-acid or oxy-salt. Oxysestiiesicl. — Preternatural acute- ness of sensation; hypersesthesia. Oxyblepsia,.—Sharpness of sight. Oxybutyria Acid. — A fatty acid (CjHgOg) found sometimes in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Acetone and fS-Oxyhutyric Acid). Oxycamphor.—An oxidation product of camphor (CjqHj50(0H)), used in the treat- ment of dyspnoea, in doses of from 8 to 16 grains. Oxyceplialy.—A malformation of the head on which the vertex is pointed. See Mental Deficiency {Microcephalic Cases). Oxych lorate.—A chlorate, e.g. of potash. OxyeCOia.—^ Preternatural acuteness of hearing; auditory hypereesthesia. Oxygen is a colourless, odourless, and tasteless gas, somewhat heavier than atmospheric air, which contains 20'96 volumes per cent of this gas. Physiological experiments prove that, on inhalation of an atmosphere of pure oxygen, the normal animal organism does not take up more oxygen than on inhalation of the ordinary atmospheric air, or in other words, that the atmospheric air is sufficient for the oxidation of nearly all the reduced haemoglobin passing through the lungs under normal conditions. At the present time there is considerable divergence of opinion as to the therapeutic value of oxygen, but in spite of theoretical objections its administration is beneficial to some patients in whom dyspnoea and cyanosis are urgent symptoms, and especially when these symptoms are dependent on some obstruction of the respiratory passages. Thus in some cases of true asthma, bronchitis, and laryngeal diph- theria, and in cases in which there is pressure on the trachea or extrapulmonary bronchi, inhalation of an atmosphere rich in oxygen is useful in reducing the frequency of the pulse and respirations and in relieving dyspnoea and cyanosis. In pneumonia, pulmonary emphy- sema, and cardiac disease, the benefit of oxygen inhalation is less evident. The improvement obtained in some of the latter cases is frequently ascribed to .mental sxiggestion, but is often largely if not entirely due to the stimulant action of the gas. In most of these cases the use of oxygen induces only temporary improve- ment ; rarely, if ever, is the improvement permanent. As a stimulant, oxygen is also useful in severe collapse, in excessive chloi'o- form narcosis, and in carbon monoxide, opium, and other forms of narcotic poisoning. Oxygen inhalations have probably no influence either on the fixed tissues or the metabolism of the organism, and as a rule no improvement has been obtained by the use of oxygen in diseases such as ansemia, pernicious anaemia, leucocythaemia, tuberculosis, diabetes, gout, and other constitutional diseases. The gas should be administered in a concentrated form, and hence through a mask, if a stimulant effect is desired. If the inhalation, whether continuous or interrupted, is to be prolonged over a con- siderable period of time, it is advisable to connect the tube leading from the oxygen cylinder with a wash bottle so that the gas may pass through water before being inhaled. Oxygen is also employed on account of its local oxidising and antiseptic action. Water saturated with oxygen has long been employed by some both for drinking and balneological purposes, but the pure gas has no action on the skin itself. The local application of oxygen is more readily obtained by the use of hydrogen peroxide, which on contact with the tissues is decomposed into water and oxygen. The local application of the watery solution of hydrogen peroxide is therefore useful in such conditions as suppurating wounds, septic ulcers, diphtheria, and tonsillitis. Oxyg'ensia.—Unusual keenness of the sense of taste. Oxyfiaematoporpiiyrin. — A sub- stance found in urine producing a red colour; it resembles urohsematoporphyrin. Oxyhsemog^iobin. — The bright red compound of the blood which consists of a molecule of haemoglobin linked with one of oxygen (HbO). See Hemoglobinuria ; Physi- ology, Blood and Lymph {Chemistry of Bed Cells); Pigments op the Body and Excreta ; Spectroscope in Medicine {Spectra). Oxymei.—A preparation consisting of eight parts of liquefied honey, of one part of acetic acid, and of one part of water; it is given in doses of 1 to 2 fl. drachms. See Honey. Oxymella. — Officinal preparations con- taining honey, acetic acid, and some other drug; the British Pharmacopoeia contains only one oxymei, that of squill {oxymei scillce).220 OXYNITE PROCESS Oxynite Process.—A subsidence and precipitation process for the disposal of sewage in which oxynite (a substance containing man- ganese compounds) is used to oxygenate the sewage. OxyntiC Cells.—Cells secreting acid, e.g. those cells of the fundus of the stomach which secrete hydrochloric acid. See Physi- ology, Food and Digestion (Structure of Ali- mentary Canal). Oxyopia..—Unusual acuteness of vision. Oxyphile.—Attracting acid dyes; a term applied to eosinophilic leucocytes. See Physi- ology, Blood and Lymph {Cells of Blood). Oxyprotein.—A proteid unusually rich in oxygen. Oxypurin. See Uric Acid {Chemical Characters, Hypoxanthin). Oxyquinoline. —A hydroxyl substitu- tion preparation of quinoline (CgH^NO) made by digesting quinoline with a bleaching-lime solution. Oxytocics. — Remedies which increase the contractions of the uterus, especially during or immediately after labour ; ecbolics (q.v.). See Ergot ; Quinine ; etc. OxyurisVermiCUlariS.—The thread- worm or pin-worm. See Parasites {Nematodes). Oysters. See Food {Fish, Typhoid Fever); Invalid-Feeding {Peptonised Foods, Oysters); Invalid-Feeding {Salisbury Diet); Toxicology {Shell-Fish); Typhoid Fever {Etiology, Food). Ozsena. See Nose, Chronic Inflamma- tion {Atrophic Rhinitis, Foetid Ozceria). See also Breath {Odour); Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Physical Signs). Ozokerite.—A solid hydrocarbon found in Galicia, and used instead of beeswax in Russia; when purified it forms ceresine. It is used in some skin diseases. Ozone.—An allotropic form of oxygen, more powei'ful than oxygen, and acting as bleach- ing, disinfecting, and oxidizing, agent; it is produced during the slow oxidation of phos- phorus, and by the eiTect of the silent electrical discharge in air in a box (Ozone Generator); the formula of its molecule is O3. See Air, Examination of {Ozone). Ozonoform.—A proprietary preparation said to contain ozone and a pine distillate; it has a disinfecting action. Ozonometer and Ozonoscope. —Instruments for the detection and estimation of ozone in the atmosphere; their action depends upon the effect of ozone on test-papers soaked in a solution of potassium iodide and starch, iodine being set free by the ozone and colouring the starch blue. Ozostomia.—Foul smell of the mouth or breath. Pacchionian Bodies.—Fleshy ex- crescences on the surface of the dura mater, especially in the neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses ; they are really projections from the arachnoid ; through them fluid can pass from the subarachnoid space into the venous sinuses into which they project. The depressions on the inner aspect of the cranial bones corresponding to these bodies are called Pacchionian depressions. See Meninges of the Cerebruji {Anatomy and Physiology). Pachy-. — In compound words pachy- (Gr. Traxijs, thick, large) means thick or massive ; e.g. pachyodont (having large teeth), pachypod (having a large foot), pachytrichous (having thick hair), etc. Pachyakry.—Acromegaly {q.v.). Pachyblepharon or Pachy- blepharosiS.—Thickening of the eyelids of an inflammatory nature. Pachycephaly. — Thickness of the skull, due sometimes to early synostosis be- tween the parietal bones and the occiput. Pachydactyly.—A thickened condition of the digits, sometimes congenital. Pachydermia. — Thickening of the skin, or (rarely) of a mucous membrane, e.g. of the larynx; elephantiasis. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {Pachy- dermia Laryngis); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases (Congenital Elephantiasis); Sclero- dbrmia ; Scrotum, Diseases of {Elephantiasis Scroti); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxcedema). Pac h y g^l OSSO U S.—Thick-tongued. Pac h y gf n at h O us.—Thick-jawed. Pachyhaemia or Pachyaemia.— Thickness of the blood. PachytOSiS.—A skin disease, character- ised by thickening of the epidermis {Erasmus Wilson). Pachymeningitis.—Inflammation of the cerebro-spinal dura mater {pachymeninx, the dura mater). See Brain, Surgery of {Intracranial Inflammation); Insanity, Patho- logy OF (Pathological Anatomy, Dura Mater); Meninges of the Cebebrum {Inflammation ofPACHYMENINGITIS 221 the Dura Mater) ; Paralysis {Bulbar Paralysis, Diagnosis from Cervical Pachymeningitis); Spinal Cord, Medical (Vascular Lesions). Pachysynovitis. *S'eeBuRS^, Injuries AND Diseases of {Pachysynovitis hmmorrhagica of Volkmann). Pacinian Corpuscles.—Special end organs of the nerves of the skin, but found also in other parts {e.g. the mesentery); corpuscula lamellosa. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Spinal Nerves); Skin, Anatomy AND Physiology {Pacinian Bodies, or Corpuscles of Vafer). Pack, Cold. See Hydropathy {Hydro- pathic Methods, Acute Diseases, Cold Pack). Pack, Hot. See Hydropathy {Hydro- pathic Methods, Hot Packs). Packing'.—The filling of a canal or cavity or of a wound with gauze or wool, etc., e.g. the packing of the vaginal canal or of an abscess cavity. Pack, iVIustard. See Hydropathy {Hydropathic Methods, Mustard Pack). Pack, Wet. See Hydropathy {Hydro- pathic Methods, Wet Pack); Puerperium, Pathology {Septicaemia, Treatment). Pad.—In anatomy the term pad is given to any fleshy cushion or cushion-like structure ; e.g. the incisive pad of the palate {p>ap)illa pala- tiiia), the sucking-jmd of fat in the cheek, the siilenium or pad in the brain, etc. PageiiUS. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Fish, Pagellus Erythrinus). Page's Disease. — Railway - spine ; Erichsen's disease. Paget's Disease.—(1) A disease of the bones characterised by hypertrophy pro- ducing deformity, but without involvement of the soft parts; osteitis deformans. (2) A der- matitis affecting the areola of the nipple of the breast, followed, usually, by cancer of the breast. See Acromegaly {Diagnosis); Bone, Diseases op {Chronic Osteomyelitis, Quiet Ne- crosis) ; Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Paget's Disease); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Osteitis Deformans). Pail-System.—A dry method for the disposal of sewage, in which galvanised iron pails or wooden tubs with lids are used to remove excreta, ashes, etc. See Sewage and Drainage {Conservancy System). Pain. See Abdomen, Clinical Investi- gation of {Symptoms, Pain, Referred, etc.); Abdomen, Injuries of {Traumatic Peritonitis); Abdominal Aneurysm (Symptoms); Abortion {Symptoms); Adrenal Glands, Addison's Dis- ease {Symptoms, Epigastric Pain); Aneurysm, Aortic {Symptoms); Angina Pectoris {Symjy torns); Appendix, Diseases of {Appendicitis, Symptoms); Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Evidences of Asepticity, Absence of Pain); Bone, Diseases of {Tuberculous Disease, Painless On- set) ; Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Symptorns); Chest-Wall, Affections of (Pain in the Chest); Children, Development of {Sensibility to Pain); Choroid, Diseases of {Choroiditis, Symptoms); Cicatrices (Painful) : Ear, Acute Inflamma- tion OF Middle (Symptoms); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Symptomatology); Glau- coma {Symp>toms); Gout {Acute Symptoms); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symjy- tomatology. Cardiac Pain); Herpes (Herpes Zoster, Pain) ; Joints, Diseases of ; Kidneys, Surgical Affections of (Stone); Labour, Stages and Duration of (Pheriomena); Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases (Laryngeal, Phthi- sis, SymjJtoms); Liver Diseases {Perihepjatitis, Symp>toms); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Lung Symptoms, Pain); Mammary Gland, Diseases OF {Carcinomata); Menstruation and its Disorders {Dysmenorrhcea, Retention of the Menses); Ovaries, Diseases op (06p)horitis); Paralysis {Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis, Symp- toms) ; Pelvis, Diseases of the Cellular Tissue (Pelvic Cellulitis, Clinical Features); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Symptoms) ; Peritoneum, Tuberculous Peritonitis (Symp- toms) ; Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechan- ism (Senses, Common Sensibility); Pregnancy, Physiology {Mammae, Changes in); Rectum, Diseases of the {Fissure of Anus, etc.); Scurvy, Infantile (Clinical Features); Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology); Spine, Surgical Affections op {Sjnnal Caries); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (General and Special Symptomatology); Syphilis, Ter- tiary (^0746 Pains); Uterus, Displacejients OF; Uterus, Inflammations of (Endometritis, Cervical Catarrh); Uterus, Non - malignant Tumours of (Fibroids); Uterus, Malignant Tumours of {Cancer of Cervix); Vagina, Dis- orders OF (Inflanwiatory); Visceral Pain. Pains, After. See Puerperium, Physi- ology (Management, After-Pains). Pains, Labour. See Labour, Physi- ology of (Powers); Labour, Stages and Dura- tion OF {Phenomena). Paint.—A preparation in pharmacy for applying to the skin or throat by means of a brush ; a pigmentum. Pai nter'S Col iC. See Toxicology (Lead, Symptovis, Colicky Pains); Trades, Dangerous (Lead-Poisoning, Symptomatology). Paints. See Trades, Dangerous {Lnjlam- mable Paints).222 PALATE Palate. Anatomy 222 Cleft Palate— Cause of . 223 Extent 223 Appearances 223 Effects 223 Treatment— Period for Operating 224 Essentials for Success in Operating . 224 The Operation— Preliminaries for 224 Anaesthetic 225 Steps of Operation . 225 After-Treatment 227 Complications . 227 Causes of Faihire 227 Voice Training 227 Davies Colley's Operation 228 Mechanical Treatment of Cleft Palate 229 Injuries of The Palate 229 Diseases of the Palate— l7iJlamniation, Acute 229 Infective Granulomata and their Results 230 Tubercle . 230 Syphilis . 230 Others 230 Tumours— Simple 231 Malignant 231 Congenital Deformities of THE Mouth 232 Hare-Lip 233 See also Adolescent 1t<isatsiity {Deformed Palate in); Bone, Diseases of {Syphilitic); Brain, Physiology^ of (Cranial JVerves, Innervation of Palate); Children, Clinical Examination of [Mouth and Throat, Palate); Diphtheria (Com- plications, Paralysis); Facial Nerve, Paralysis of (Symptoms); Facial Spasm (Palatal Muscles); Mental Deficiency (Cretinoid Cases, Stigmata of Degeneration); Pharynx, Examination of (Spasm and Paralysis of Palate); Physiognomy AND Expression (Palate); Syphilis (Tertiary) ; Typhoid Fever (Symptoms, Pharynx and Palate). Anatomy.—A short reference to the anatomy of the palate is necessary before entering upon the consideration of its abnormalities and diseases. The hard palate has normally the shape of a regular arch, but varies considerably in different individuals. It is composed of an osseous frame- work covered by periosteum and mucous mem- brane. The osseous portion, which consists of the two horizontal planes of the superior maxilla and of the palate bones, is roughened on its under surface for the attachment of the muco- periosteum, perforated by foramina for the transmission of its nutrient vessels, and has attached to it posteriorly the palatine apo- neurosis. It receives its blood-supply from above as well as below. The relations and component parts of the intermaxillary bone are considered under Hare-Lip. The mucous membrane of the hard palate is dense, contains numerous small glands, and is closely adherent to the periosteum. Its blood- supply is derived from two sources—the posterior FlQS. 1 and 2.—Various degrees of simple fissure of the palate. (Mason.) palatine artery, which, after emerging at the posterior palatine canal, situated internal to the last molar tooth, runs forward in a groove in the bone parallel to and about I to | of an inch internal to the alveolar border, and the naso-palatine artery, which descends through the anterior palatine canal. The terminal twigs of these vessels anastomose with each other. Nerves.—The soft palate consists of an apo- neurosis firmly attached to the posterior border of the hard palate, of fibrous tissue, of muscles, and of mucous membrane. From its side there pass ofT two folds of mucous membrane, the pillars of the fauces, the anterior of which Fia. 3.—Complete cleft palate with- Fia. 4.—Unusual form of cleft out alveolar or labial deformity. involving the alveolar arch The vomer is separated from the and the anterior portion of lateral segments. (Mason.) palate only. (Mason.) descends to the tongue and the posterior to the pharynx. Posteriorly, the soft palate termi- nates in the uvula. The following are the muscles of the soft palate :— The palato-pharyngeus begins in the median raphe in two layers which enclose the levator palati and azygos uvulae ; it then passes down-PALATE 223 wards and backwards in the posterior pillar of the fauces and spreads out into the side of the pharynx and along the posterior border of the thyroid cartilages. Action. — It elevates the larynx and approximates the posterior pillar of the fauces. fi^The palatoglossus blends with its fellow of the opposite side on the anterior surface of the Fig. 5.—Complete unilateral FiG. 6.—Simple fissure of the cleft palate without alveolar palate. (Mason.) deficiency. The vomer is attached to the left palatal segment. (Mason.) soft palate, passes down in the anterior pillar of the fauces, and is inserted into the side of the tongue. Action.—It draws the soft palate downwards and elevates the side and the base of the tongue. The levator palati arises from the under surface of the petrous bone and from the lower border of the Eustachian tube, passes down- wards, and is inserted into the median raphe between the two layers of the palato-glossus. Action. — It elevates the soft palate and brings it in contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx. The tensor palati arises from the sca- phoid fossa of the in- ternal pterygoid plate and from the Eusta- chian tube. It ends in a tendon which is FIG. 7.-Complete cleft palate and reflected rOUnd the double alveolar hare-lip, simu- hamular prOCeSS, and lating a double lateral cleft due • ;„c.£iv.fQ<1 ;»-.f^ fV.a to the vomer being seen tree inserteu into me between the palatal segments, ridge on the under (Mason.) Surface of the palate bone and into the anterior surface of the soft palate. Action.—It renders the soft palate tense, and opens the Eustachian tube during deglutition. The azygos uvulce arises from the posterior nasal spine and descends into the uvula. Action. —It elevates and shortens the uvula. The mucous membrane on the posterior sur- face of the soft palate is thin and continuous with that of the nose; on the anterior surface it is thick and contains mucous glands. The blood - supple/ is derived from the pos- terior palatine, the ascending palatine, and the ascending pharyngeal arteries. The Nerve-8upply.—Sensory. Glosso-pharyn- geal fibres of superior laryngeal branch of vagus. Motor.—N. Accessorius. Glosso-pharyngeal. Cleft Palate.—Acquired defects are described tinder Diseases of the Palate. The manner in which the palate is developed determines the variety of the cleft. The palatal processes grow inwards and unite in the middle line from before backwards, the vomer joins the hard palate from above, the intermaxillary bone terminates at the anterior palatine-canal. Extent.—-The cleft may involve merely the soft palate, and vary in degree from little more than a bifided uvula to a complete fissure of the velum. The entire soft palate may be in- volved, and the hard fissured in part or up to the anterior palatine canal. In the severe forms the cleft extends beyond the palatal processes, and is complicated by the presence of a unilateral or double hare-lip. Appearances.—Usually the cleft is mesial, or it may appear to be unilateral in consequence of the union of one segment, generally the right, with the medium septum; in these cases there is often a left-sided hare-lip. The vomer, if well developed, may project between the palatal processes, and the cleft appears to be double. When the fissure ex- tends beyond the palatal processes it diverges at the anterior palatine canal to pass forward through the sutures of the intermaxillary bone, usually between the endognathion and meso- gnathion. The width of the cleft varies greatly; in some cases the segments of the hard palate are more or less horizontal, in others they may run almost vertically upwards. In addition to those described above, other congenital defects are occasionally met with in the palate. The deformity may be limited entirely to the anterior part of the hard palate with or without an associated alveolar cleft; it may exist as an oval defect at the junction of the hard and soft palate, in the hard or in the soft palate only, or the continuity of a cleft may be interrupted by a bridge of tissue. Sometimes one or two vertical clefts occur in the anterior pillar of the fauces near where it joins the tongue. Effects.—The results of cleft palate have to be considered in their relations to nutrition, to the mucous membrane, and to speech. As regards nutrition, an infant with a well- marked palatal deficiency is unable to suck, swallowing is interfered with, fluids are apt to regui'gitate through the nose; therefore, unless the child be carefully fed, its nutrition becomes224 PALATE seriously impaired, and it may die of starvation, or its physical development be impeded. The effects upon the mvicous membrane arise from dryness, produced by the abnormal ex- posure to air, and from infection. Children with cleft palate are frequently the subjects of chronic naso-pharyngeal catarrh, adenoids, and enlarged tonsils. Articulation is indistinct and laborious. The nasal twang is characteristic. Speech is affected even when the aperture in the palate is small. In adults the difficulty in swallowing has been overcome to a considerable extent, and the patient by carefully training himself may have effected a degree of improvement in his speech. Treatment of Cleft Palate.—Under this heading there have to be considered:— (1) Method of feeding infants who are the subjects of cleft palate is described under Hare-Lip. (2) Treatment of the Deformity.—Closure of the cleft by operation is the most satisfactory method. Mechanical appliances ought to be reserved for special cases, which will be referred to later. Before describing the operation for cleft palate it is well to consider the benefits to be derived from successful surgical treatment. At all ages, and even in adults, the patients are in a better condition after successful surgical interference than when no operation has been performed. Food has not the same tendency to regurgitate through the nose, taste and smell are improved, and speech is more distinct. As regards results, much depends upon care- ful attention to the essential details of the operation, iipon the width of the cleft and the arch of the palate, upon the size of its segments, the amount of tissue available for the plastic operation, and upon the age of the patient. It must, however, be borne in mind that when union takes place from end to end the results, as regards speech, are sometimes disappointing. This is the case especially when the soft palate is scanty and rigid and does not effectively shut off the naso-pharynx, and also in certain cases of imperfect development of the nasal cavities. The treatment of cleft palate does not cease with successful surgical treatment. The operation renders the patient capable of being educated to speak properly. Period for Operating.—When hare-lip and cleft palate are associated, the former ought to be closed as early as possible—vide Hare-Lip. The earlier the cleft can be closed the better the results as regards speech. Partial clefts can be closed at an earlier period than complete fissures, which require a more extensive and prolonged operation, and entail greater loss of blood and more shock. Some surgeons operate during the first few months of life, and others even as early as the fourth to fifth week. If the soft palate alone be fissured the best period on the whole is between eighteen months and two years, although sometimes in suitable cases the operation may be done before the period of first dentition; when the cleft is complete, from the third year onwards. The tendency is, however, to operate in all cases at an earlier period than was formerly the case. Age alone does not determine the date of operative interference. None the less important is the state of the child's general health, the condition of its mouth and naso-pharynx, and whether it is tractable or otherwise. Essentials for Success.—Primary union is of the first importance. This is to be attained by paring the edges of the cleft in one piece, by completely separating up muco-periosteal flaps, by the division of all tense structures, by accurate suturing, by the prevention of septic infection, and by rest of the wound as far as possible. It is also most important that the sutured soft palate should be mobile. PrelvminAxry Treatment.—The operation not being one of emergency, the surgeon is able to choose his own time for operating. The best periods of the year are spring and summer. The child ought to be under observation for some time. The possibility of its developing an infectious disease ought to be eliminated. A history of haemophilia should be inquired for. The general health must be satisfactory, and no operation undertaken if the patient has recently recovered from any infectious disease or severe illness. The child ought to be taught to breathe through the nose. After-treatment is facilitated by accustoming the patient to take food from the side of a spoon or from a feeding-cup. The patient ought to be tractable and easily con- trolled by the nurse. It is advisable in the case of spoilt children not to have the mother with the child for any time until some days after the operation. As in all operations in the mouth, asepsis should as far as possible be aimed at. Decayed teeth must be attended to, chronic pharyngitis frequently requires treatment. The crusts are removed by bicarbonate of soda, 10 gr. to gj., and then boro-glyceride or some mild antiseptic brushed on. Adenoids and enlarged tonsils not infrequently require removal. The patient should be on a light diet for a day or two before the operation, and the usual preliminaries as regards the stomach and bowels attended to prior to the administration of the anajsthetic. An enema of beef-tea and brandy may be given just before the operation. instruments. — Special gags, such as Smith's, Whitehead's, and other forms, are frequently used. The writer prefers any simple gag which will effectually keep the mouth open ; an assist- ant depresses the tongue with a spatula. The following instruments are necessary : bistouries,PALATE 225 sharp and narrow-bladed, also probe-pointed; scissors, straight and curved; long, toothed forceps; periosteum elevators, straight and curved ; dissecting forceps; sponge-holders, or what in many respects are better—Kocher's artery forceps, which securely grasp the sponges ; cleft palate needles of various curves—those recommended by Rose are very satisfactory; silver wire, soft, pliable, and of moderate thick- ness, in lengths of six to eight inches ; silk- worm-gut, horse-hair, and sterile silk. For stopping troublesome bleeding, pads of sterile gauze, ice, Horsley's wax, adrenalise chloride solution. The AncBsthetic.—Chloroform is the most suit- able, and if possible it ought to be administered by a skilled anjesthetist. Efficient administra- tion of the anaesthetic is an important part of the operation. The patient should be well under before the operation is begun, and not allowed to come out until it is completed, lest vomiting should occur. The chief assistant attends to the tongnie and keeps the pharynx free from blood. Sponging ought to be done rapidly but lightly, and care taken not to bruise the tissues. A useful adjuvant is the painting of the palate and pharynx with a 2 per cent solution of cocaine. Position of the Patient.—The chest should be raised, and the head should be thrown back and hang over the end of the table. The surgeon sits or stands at the patient's head. Good light is essential. Extent of the Operation.—The whole cleft ought to be closed at one operation, if possible. In some cases this cannot be done. The fissure in the hard palate is then dealt with first, and that in the soft subsequently closed, or, if that be impossible, an artificial velum may have to be fitted. The Operation. — The operation described below is generally known as Langenbeck's. Avery, of Charing Cross Hospital, was the first in this country to completely close the cleft in the hard palate. Mr. Annandale, to whom the writer is indebted for many valuable hints in the treatment of hare-lip and cleft palate during the period he has been associated with him in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, performed, in 1864, the first successful operation in Scotland on the hard palate. The operation for closure of the hard and soft palate consists usually of the following steps :— (1) Paring the edges of the cleft. (2) Detachment of muco-periosteal flaps. (3) Introduction of sutures. (4) Relief of tension. The plan, practised by Rose, of detaching the flap before the edges are pared has much to recommend it. (1) Paring the Edges of the Cleft.—If the VOL. VII I'la. S.—Paring the edges of the cleft. (After Cheyne and Burghard.) vomer be attached to one side of the cleft, the junction of the nasal and buccal mucous membrane should be divided. The tip of the cleft uvula is grasped by a pair of long, toothed forceps and pulled down- wards and inwards so as to render the palate tense. The edge of the cleft is then pared from the apex to the portion of the uvula grasped by the forceps. The paring may be done from be- fore backwards, ^ or from behind forwards. Each side should be pared in one piece, and the apex of the cleft detached last; effectual paring is thus ensured. Too much tissue must not be removed, and the edges should not be bevelled. (2) Detachment of the Muco-periosteal Flaps. —The bleeding after paring of the flaps is usually slight. An incision is then made with a sharp and rather stout knife, held per- pendicular to the mucous surface. It begins on a level with, and just internal to, the last molar tooth, aud is carried forward parallel, and not more than half an inch internal to, the alveolar border until it reaches the level of the lateral incisor tooth, if the cleft be complete, or, a little beyond the apex of the cleft if it be partial. The knife should divide the periosteum and pass down to the bone. The incision, which is planned so as to pass external to the posterior palatine artery and to avoid the anterior palatine anteriorly, should be made close to the teeth. The former vessel can sometimes be felt pulsating, and avoided. The muco-periosteal flap is now detached by raspatories of various curves, attention being paid to the following details. The points of the raspatories must be kept close to the bone in order to avoid working in the substance of or perforating the flap, which should be steadied by keeping the forefinger of the left hand on its buccal surface. The separation should extend inwards until the point of the raspatory can be protruded along the entire length of the cleft, forwards beyond the apex of the fissure, if it be partial, and just short of the anterior palatine canal if the fissure is complete, and backwards along the posterior border of the hard palate. Bleeding is usually pretty free when the incision is made, especially if the posterior palatine artery be injured, but can be arrested 15PALATE 226 by sponge pressure, unless the artery be partially divided, in which case the division should be made complete. The operator proceeds with the separation of the flaps, while the assistant seizes every opportunity to remove the blood. Attention is now paid to the soft structures around the hamular process. This process is divided by some operators. The palatal aponeurosis at- tached to the back of the hard palate should be divided. The mucous membrane, reflected from the base of the soft palate into the nose, should also be divided. The division of these structures is effected by a probe - pointed bistoury and by curved scissors. A pause can now be made to arrest bleeding and remove blood. In cases of complete cleft it is convenient to transfer the gag to the side of the mouth already dealt with, and to separate the other muco-periosteal flap. When both flaps have been detached, a raspatory should be introduced into the incision on each side and the flaps drawn together. If they fall readily into position, the next stage of the operation may be proceeded with; if not, any resisting spot is to be dealt with. (3) The Passage of Siitures.—The method of passing the sutures varies with the part of the palate, the size of the mouth, etc. It is sometimes possible, even in the hard palate, to pass a suitably curved needle threaded with silk first through one flap and then through the other. This direct method is employed in the soft palate and uvula. The loop method is usually required when the hard palate is being dealt with. A needle of suitable curve threaded with silk a foot or more in length is passed through the whole thickness of the flap not less than one-eighth of an inch from the pared margin. The silk is caught at the eye of the needle by dissecting forceps or the point of another needle, and the needle withdrawn. A loop of silk is then left on one side of the cleft. The same proceeding is then repeated by passing the needle through the other flap at an exactly corresponding point. There are now two loops of silk, one of which may be passed through the other, which is gently withdrawn, and thus a loop passes through both flaps. Into this loop the bent end of the silver wire is caught, and pressed flat with forceps; the free ends of the silk are drawn upon and the wire carried through both flaps. An equally convenient method is to pass one loop of silk, catch one end of the wire and draw it through one flap, and repeat the procedtire on the other side with the other end of the wire. If this method be adopted, care must be taken to prevent the wire kinking as its two ends are being drawn upon. The first wire suture, which can be used for holding the palate forward, ought to be passed about the junction of the hard and soft palate, and farther from the edge of the cleft than the others, in order to act as a suture of relaxation at the part where failure is most likely to occur. The second is placed about the middle of the hard palate. A third or fourth may be required. The anterior part of the hard palate and the soft palate are best united by silk- worm-gut, and the uvula by horse- hair. Silk is not to be recommended. The number of sutures required depends upon the extent of the cleft; they ought not to be more than \ inch apart in the soft and hard palates. Between the wire inter- mediate sutures of silkworm-gut may be introduced. In number will vary Fig. 9.—Extent of incisions. a complete cleft the total from about eight to ten. All the sutures ought to be introduced, and their ends clamped with forceps, before any of them are tied. The wire, if pliable, is tied in a single knot, and the ends cut fairly short and left flat across the line of union. Silkworm-gut and horse-hair are tied by surgical knots. The sutures are conveniently tied from before back- wards ; before doing so, however, they are drawn together to see if the pared edges lie in accurate apposi- tion. Care must be taken to avoid inversion of one edge, and the uvula must be ac- curately united down to its very tip. When the cleft extends up to the alveolar margin, in order to avoid I'IG. 10.—Operation complete. may have to be closed at damaging the artery a small gap a subsequent period. (4) The Relief of Tension.—i:h.h, the last, is not the least important stage of the operation. It is essential, not only for primary union, but also for the mobility of the soft palate, which ought to be suiflciently loose to move freely when the patient breathes. It may be said thatPALATE 227 the velum cannot be too loose. Sloughing is practically unknown. An excellent rule is to divide with a probe- pointed bistoury or scissors any structure which interferes with the free movement of the velum. In most cases it is necessary to prolong the lateral incision backwards by means of a probe- pointed bistoury through the soft palate just internal to the hamular process. Half the thickness of the palate ought to be divided, and the depth of the incision can, if necessary, be increased by the forefinger. If bleeding occurs, pressure will usually arrest it. Sometimes it is necessary to snick through the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces. As already mentioned, division of the mucous membrane passing from the soft palate into the nose must never be omitted. When the soft palate alone is cleft the opera- tion for its closure is known as Staphylorrhaphy. It differs from that described only in degree. The lateral incisions are not so extensive, and may be made after the sutures have been passed. The principles as regards the relief of tension are identical. After-Treatment.—The patient should be put to bed with the head low and turned to one side, so that blood and mucus will flow readily out of the mouth. The nurse or mother ought to be told that the child may vomit blood. If shock follow the operation, it is to be treated by appropriate measures. Feeding.—No food is to be given for four or five hours at least, it being important to avoid sickness. For the first four or five days the patient is fed on milk and soda-water, beef-tea, or beef-jelly by means of a spoon or rubber tube attached to a feeder. Small quantities are given at intervals, say, of two hours. After the fifth day, custards, puddings, and soaked bread may be allowed. No solid food ought to be permitted for at least a fortnight. The mouth is to be kept as clean as possible. After each feeding the child is to be given water to drink. The tendency of milk to remain in the mouth renders beef-tea and beef-jelly prefer- able. The wound may with advantage be swabbed with boro-glyceride two or three times a day if the child will allow it to be done. The patient is to be kept as quiet as possible, and not allowed to put the fingers into the mouth. The palate should not be examined for a week. If the case follows a satisfactory course, the patient may be allowed to get out of bed on the sixth day and be taken out of doors shortly afterwards. Removal of tiutnres.—The wounds at the side speedily granulate. The sutures are removed on the tenth to fourteenth day ; they may be left in for a longer period. An aucesthetic is usually necessary in children. It is better to remove all the sutures at one time. Complications.—Primary hoimorrhage occurs most freely when the lateral incisions are made, and sometimes after the incisions for relief of tension. The method of dealing with it has been described. Reactionary haemorrhage may occur in patients who have suffered from shock during the opera- tion. Pressure and cold will arrest it. The posterior palatine canal may have to be plugged. Secondary haemorrhage is due to sepsis, and is rare. It may be serious. It is to be treated by cold pressure, clearing away the clots, and plugging the posterior palatine canal with a probe or Horsley's wax. Sepsis is a serious complication as regards primary union. Loss of blood, rough handling, bruising with sponges, and a feeble constitution predispose. It is to be avoided by careful attention to the mouth before and after opera- tion, and treated by a spray of peroxide of hydrogen, by boro-glyceride, and other mild antiseptics. It may be arrested, but generally leads to partial or complete failure. Failure may be partial or complete. It is most likely to occur in wide clefts and when the palate is horizontal. The usual places for partial failure are at the junction of the hard and soft palate and anteriorly. Causes.—In spite of every care failure will occasionally occur, but the risk is diminished in proportion to the attention paid to the pre- paration for, and essentials of, the operation. General Conditions.—Measles, scarlet fever, thoracic or gastro-intestinal complications, severe colds. Local.—Defective operating is the common cause—the essentials for success have already been sufficiently emphasised.—Crying, vomiting, the patient putting the finger in the mouth, sepsis. Treatment.—Small holes, especially in the soft palate, frequently close of themselves. If union is doubtful, the removal of the sutures ought to be delayed until the third week. A small opening may be made to close by a touch with a hot wire. When failure is complete the sepsis ought to be dealt with. A second operation ought to be performed when the edges are granulating, usually in about a fortnight if the child be in good health. If the general condition be un- satisfactory, a further delay is necessary. Should the second operation fail, a third attempt may be made four or five months later. Voice Training.—It has been already pointed out that the treatment of cleft palate does not cease with a successful operation. The import- ance of voice training must be explained to the parents. Much care and patience is required, and the training, which has a twofold object— to develop the muscles of the palate by exercises and to correct the faulty habit of speech—has to be carried out for months, even years. The former is best attained by making thePALATE 228 patient take deep inspiration with the mouth open, while the tongue is kept in the floor of the mouth. Nose breathing ought also to be practised. As regards speech, the subjects of cleft palate Fig. 11.—Davies CoUey's operation, flap D, E, dissected up, turned over, and united to the opposite side with raw surface downward. are apt to speak too quickly and to run their words together. This habit must be corrected. They must also be taught to use the muscles of the tongue and palate for the purpose of distinct articulation. Usually there is especial difficulty in pronouncing words containing certain letters, in order to ascertain which, the whole alphabet Fig. 12.—Davies CoIIey's operation ; outline of flaps mai'lied out. ought to be repeated and the letters which are difficult to pronounce noted. It will generally be found that b, d, g, k, f, s, t, z are pronounced indistinctly. A selection of words containing these letters is made for the purpose of in- struction. The instruction is carried out by a voice trainer, by the mother, or a careful and in- telligent nurse in the following manner :—There ought to be nothing to disturb the attention of the child while it is having its lesson. The child should sit facing the instructor, who pro- nounces the words slowly and in an exaggerated manner with the mouth open and the lips separated. The child then takes a deep inspira- tion and copies the movements of the instructor's tongue and lips and the sound produced. The words are to be pronounced syllable by syllable. At first the lesson is to be of short duration, care being taken not to tire the child ; the periods of instruction are then gradually lengthened. A useful plan is to mark words difficult of pronunciation in an ordinary spelling-book—a pictorial one in the case of young children—and make the child practise the slow and deliberate pronunciation of such words. Other Operations for Cleft Palate.—Space does not permit of a description of Fergusson's Fig. 13.—Davies Colley's operation, flap A, B, C glided access and united to under raw surface of Z), E. and other methods. The method devised by the late Mr Davies CoUey requires notice. The advantages claimed for the method are that it can be performed at an earlier age. There is less haemorrhage, no loss of tissue, and very little tension. The disadvantages are that the hard palate alone is united, and a foramen is left at the anterior part of the cleft. The author strongly recommended his opera- tion in infants, in patients whom the ordinary operation had failed, when the separation of the sides of the cleft is too great to be bridged over in the ordinary way. The soft palate may be closed at the same time or at a subsequent period. 1. A triangular flap consisting of all the soft parts is cut from the side of the hard palate which is the wider, or if the septum be attached to one of the palatal processes the flap is taken229 PALATE from that side. The apex of the flap reaches nearly as far forwards as the incisor teeth; its base is left attached and extends from close to the inner border of the alveolus at the last molar tooth inwards to the edge of the soft palate, near to its anterior attachment. The flap is made by beginning the incision opposite and close to the last molar tooth, carrying it forwards parallel and just internal to the teeth as far as the apex, and then backwards along the edge of the cleft about one-eighth of an inch external to its margin to the line of the base. The flap, along with the periosteum, is then raised by means of a raspatory. 2. A small flap is then marked out on the other side by an incision beginning at the level of the anterior part of the cleft and carried backwards to the junction of the hard and soft palate at least one-sixth of an inch external to the margin of the cleft. At its anterior and posterior extremities this incision should be carried inwards to the margin of the cleft. A muco-periosteal flap is now detached and turned inwards on its base, which is formed by the tissue at the edge of the cleft, and fixed to the mucous membrane on the opposite side of the cleft by two or three catgut sutures. 3. The large flap is now carried across the cleft, and the anterior parts of its inner margin attached by silver wire or silkworm-gut sutures to outer border of the incision upon the other side of the palate. If there be difiiculty in bringing the large flap across the cleft it may be necessary to detach its base more freely from the soft parts which connect it with the hard palate. The two flaps may be further united by horse-hair sutures. Usually the pressure of the tongue suffices to keep them in position. The Mechanical Treatment of Cleft Palate.—As already stated, the treatment of a congenital cleft in the palate by surgical interference is preferable to that by mechanical means. The obturator, as a rule, cannot be fitted until the habit of defective speech has been fully formed, and as the patient grows frequent renewal is necessary. In certain cases, however, it is the only method of treatment. In congenital cleft the mechanical treatment is necessary where the gap is very wide and the soft parts are insufficient to close it, where the soft palate is rudimentary, where the os incisi- vum has been removed and a wide gap exists in front, where operative interference has left a shrunken and deformed palate, and in some cases where the patient has reached adult life. In acquired conditions mechanical treatment is called for in certain cases of perforation of the palate from traumatism or syphilis, or where a portion of the upper jaw has been removed. It is unnecessary to enter into a description of these mechanical appliances. They may be obturators or artificial vela, or both, and are to be fitted by a skilled dentist. The following essential is worthy of attention. An obturator ought to be a plate of vulcanite or gold fitted to the teeth and kept in position by suction. It should never be in the form of a plug, which, by its pressure, causes the opening to become larger. An artificial velum consists of an obturator with a movable portion attached to it to take the place of the soft palate. In congenital cases, similar instructions as regards articulation have to be given to those already described. Injuries op the Palate Mode of Production.—The palate may be injured in many ways : from very hot liquids, from corrosives or caustics, from fish or meat bones ; from a fall with a toy, stick, or pipe-stem in the mouth ; or from gun-shot wounds, usually of suicidal intent. Effects.—These vary according to the nature of the traumatic agent, the part affected, and the degree of sepsis. A hsematoma may arise, and sometimes be followed by abscess. Slough- ing may take place and cicatricial contraction of the soft palate ensue. The hard palate may necrose. The soft palate may be merely punctured, or larger wounds may penetrate its entire thickness. Injuries of the hard palate., when extensive, are frequently due to gunshot wounds ; in these injuries the nose and pharynx will also be involved. If the injury be not fatal, a large perforation generally results. Necrosis may occur. Treatment.—Foreign bodies may have to be removed. Bleeding, if severe, is to be controlled by ice and pressure. The mouth must be kept as clean as possible by the use of boric lotion, sanitas, or a spray of peroxide of hydrogen, and washed out after food. Punctured wounds of the soft palate heal without deformity. Large wounds must be sutured. When the hard palate is involved, any portion of bone and mucous membrane not entirely detached must be retained and the latter fixed in position by sutures. Gaps in the soft palate and perforations of the hard may have to be dealt with by appro- priate measures, such as plastic operations, usvially on the principle of Davies Colley's. An obturator is often necessary. Diseases of the Palate 1. Inflammation.—Acute. — The soft palate may be involved in any of the acute affections which attack the tonsil and pharynx {<i.v.). Sloughing or suppurative periostitis and ne-230 PALATE crosis may follow upon injury, or be secondary to dental lesions. Abscess of the hard palate may arise from dental caries, and be limited to the anterior part close to the alveolus or pass backwards along the roof of the mouth towards the soft palate. A sinus may result. Treatment.—Early incision of the abscess and attention to the tooth. 2. Infective Granulomata. — Tuberculosis of the palate is rare as a primary affection. It is usually associated with similar lesions in the tongue, pharynx, or larynx, or with lupus of the nose and face. Two forms are met with. (a) The so-called lupus of the palate begins in small miliary growths or nodules which turn yellowish, break down, and becoming confluent leave an ulcerated surface. Between the ulcers, which vary in size, miliary nodules are con- stantly seen. This association of old and new foci is a characteristic feature of the condition. The process may extend to the bone, but rarely causes perforation. {b) The other form is characterised by the formation of large nodules which caseate and then form iilcers. In the hard palate perfora- tion may occur. Tuberculous periostitis may affect the hard palate, especially in children, and simulate syphilis. Diagnosis.—The difficulty in diagnosis lies between syphilis and tuberculosis when no manifestation other than the palatal lesion is jjresent. The possibility of the two conditions co-existing has also to be borne in mind. Apart from the history and therapeutic test, the appearances of the ulcer and the absence of glandular enlargement in syphilis are of most value. Prognosis depends upon the presence of tubercle elsewhere and upon the tissue or organ affected. In primary tuberculosis of the palate the prognosis is fairly good. The soft palate may, however, be left cica- tricial, deformed, and perhaps adherent to the pharynx ; the hard may be perforated. Treatment. — Locally, lactic acid pure or 75 per cent is perhaps the most satisfactory. Menthol and iodoform are also useful. In some cases the galvano-cautery scraping and excision may be necessary. Perforation of the soft or hard palate and adhesions of the former may have to be dealt with {vide " Syphili.s "). The constitutional treatment is that of other tuberculous affections. Syphilis.—The syphilitic lesions of the palate will not be described in detail {vide "Syphilis "). Primary sores are sometimes met with on the hard or soft palate. The diagnosis is often difficult until glandular enlai-gement manifests itself. Secondary Lesions.—Erythema and mucous piatches and small ulcers are common and typical manifestations. In the secondary period it is not uncommon to find more extensive ulceration, which may destroy a large portion of the soft palate and spread to the hard. The writer has met with several examples of the condition relatively early in the course of syphilis, and usually in elderly and debilitated patients who have not previously been treated constitutionally. The ulceration generally begins near the uvula, and spreads to the soft palate and pillars of the fauces. The velum may be left deformed, perforated, or adherent to the pharynx. Treatment. — Mercury internally. Locally, peroxide of hydrogen spray and perchloride of mercury. Chromic acid 10 grs. to §i. is also useful. Tertiary Lesions.—Under this heading are inckided the later manifestations of inhei'ited syphilis. Small firm gummata may be found in the hai'd or soft palate. In the latter they may arise in the submucosa or muscular substance, in the former in the periosteum, or spread from the nose; this occurs frequently in the inherited form of the disease. Gummata are usually situated in the middle line, towards the back part of the hard palate and the anterior part of the soft. They are rounded in shape and not infrequently single. The glands are not enlarged. The course of a gumma varies. Under treat- ment it may disappear. Frequently it breaks down, or has done so when the patient comes under observation. A gummatous ulcer results. The soft palate becomes more or less destroyed; the hard necrosed and perforated, and the de- struction may extend to the bones of the nose, the alveolar border, and to the antrum. The ravages of tertiary syphilis of the palate sometimes leave the patient in a deplorable condition. Speech is indistinct, and nasal in tone; food passes into the nose, the bones of which are not infrequently destroyed; and the general health suffers from the concomitant sepsis. When the process becomes arrested a large gap may exist in the hard palate, the soft be deformed by loss of substance and cicatricial contraction, and perhaps adherent partially or completely to the pharynx. Diagnosis has to be made from tubercle and tumour {q.v.). Prognosis is always doubtful. The course of tertiary syphilis of the palate is often rapid, and sometimes extremely difficult to arrest. Treatment. — The patient must be quickly brought under the influence of iodide of potas- sium, and also, in most cases, of mercury as well. A tonic line of treatment is also usually indicated.231 PALATE When the gummata have broken down the local treatment consists in combating the sepsis by antiseptic sprays, in employing calomel and boric powder or starch 1 to 4, and in the use of iodoform. Necrosed bone is to be removed {vide "Syphilis of Bone"). Treatment of the Results.—In the soft palate small openings may close of themselves or be closed by operation. Frequently a velum has to be adapted. If there be adhesion to the pharynx the treat- ment depends upon the extent of the stenosis. If partial, it may be left alone. If complete, the palate must be detached from the pharyngeal wall, and re-adhesion prevented by the passage of bougies or by an india-rubber ball, which is inflated after it is placed in position. As regards the treatment of the perforated 2yalate. If the opening be large, the patient must wear an obturator; if it be small, an ob- turator is to be worn for some weeks or months after all traces of the syphilitic manifestations have disappeared, or the patient may plug the opening with gauze, or keep a piece of india- rubber in position over the opening by suction. Operative measures may then be undertaken. Davies Colley's method, or some modification of it, is the most satisfactory. Glanders, actinomi/cosis, and leprosy affect the palate secondarily. TuMOUKS.—Meningoceles may be foimd pro- jecting through the median raphe of the palate. Dermoids are sometimes met with. They may project, according to Bland Sutton, from the buccal or pharyngeal aspect of the soft palate. The tumour is usually composed of connective tissue containing striped muscle and cartilage, sometimes sebaceous material. Skin covers the outside of the mass. Sometimes small bodies composed of an ac- cumulation of epithelium — the so-called epi- thelial pearls—are seen hanging by short thin pedicles in the mouths of infants. They usually occur in the region of the premaxillse. Cysts.—Simple mucous cysts, arising in con- nection with and resembling those met with in the lips, may occur in the palate. Cysts may also arise in the alveolus in connection with the stumps of teeth, and spread to the hard palate. Cystic odontomes may project into the palate. NcBvi are occasionally met with, and are best treated by electrolysis. Traumatic aneurism of the posterior palatine artery has been known to arise from a stab and from injury produced by a dental palate. Papillomata occur most frequently on the alveolus; their most favourite seat is the pala- tine arches. They present no difficulty either as regards their diagnosis or treatment. Lipoma, fibroma, and other tumours are ex- ceedingly rare. Adenomata.—The tumours hitherto described as adenomata are really endotheliomata. They are innocent in character, slow in growth, and encapsuled. At puberty and between forty and fifty are the ages at which they are most common. They are met with in the soft palate more frequently than in the hard; their common site is at the junction of the two, and are said to be more common on the left side. In shape they are round or oval; as a rule they are inelastic, but sometimes there may be cysts in them. The mucous membrane over them may be normal in character; sometimes it is thinned by pressure of the tumour. In the hard palate they may make a pit in the bone, but they do not grow from it. They give rise to no glandu- lar enlargement. They cause no inconvenience, except from their size, and may be present for some time without the patient being aware of their presence. There appears to be reason to believe that they may sometimes, after having been present for a long period, suddenly show a rapid increase in growth, ulcerate, and furnish additional evidence of malignancy by causing lymphatic enlargement. Treatment.—Enucleation, in some cases under cocaine, is all that is necessary, unless there be evidence of malignancy, in which case a more radical operation is imperative. Sarcoma may be of the round or spindle- celled variety. Alveolar sarcoma also occurs. These tumours are distinguished from the endo- theliomata by their rapidity of growth, by their want of definition, although some have been found to be encapsuled, by the glandular en- largement to which they give rise, and by their tendency to early ulceration. They usually affect the junction of the hard and soft palate. Diagnosis.—From gumma and simple tumours. Prognosis in this class of tumours is grave, and they are often beyond the sphere of successful surgical treatment when they come under observation. Treatment.—Free and early removal of the tumours, together with the glands. The opera- tion is usually one of considerable magnitude, and it may be necessary to perform tracheotomy and ligature the external carotid as adjuvants. Malignxint Epithelial Tumours.—This group of tumours may be primary or secondary. When secondary they usually spread to the palate from the tonsil, tongue, or jaws {q.v.). Primary Malignant Epithelial Tumours.— Two varieties are met with—epithelioma and glandular cancer. Epithelioma usually affects the posterior part of the hard or the soft palate. It has the usual character of epithelioma, and can as a rule be easily diagnosed. A tertiary syphilitic ulcer of long duration may give rise to difficulty in diagnosis ; in such cases a piece of the ulcer should be removed and submitted to micro-232 PALATE scopic examination. The therapeutic test is only of value if the ulcer rapidly improves and heals under antisyphilitic treatment. Treatment.—Free removal of the tumour and the lymphatic glands. Glandular Cancer.—In its early stage gland- ular cancer, which usually affects the hard palate towards its posterior part, may give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis. The tumour forms a smooth swelling which projects into the mouth, and is usually situated to one side of the middle line. As it grows it spreads out laterally, and also tends to perforate into the nose and antrum. If the case be not seen until the bone has become destroyed there may be considerable difficulty in diagnosing the primary seat of the disease, since, after the bone has become perforated, growth usually takes place rapidly. The buccal aspect of the tumour ulcerates. The lymphatic glands be- come implicated. Diagnosis.—The gumma is, as a rule, situated in or near the middle line, is round in shape, and does not extend laterally to the same extent as the cancer. Prognosis.—Unsatisfactory, unless an early diagnosis be made and free removal adopted. Treatment. — The removal of the palatal process of the superior maxillary or of the antrum, according to the extent of the growth as well as the glands. Some cases are inoperable. Paralysis of the Soft Palate.— Vide " Diph- theria," "Paralysis, Bulbar," " Brain, Tumours of," etc., etc. Congenital Malformations of the Mouth— Hare-Lip Development ...... 232 Origin op Congenital Malfobmations . 233 Macrostoma— Appearances . . . . .233 Treatment 233 Microstoma— Appearances . . . . .233 Treatment ..... 233 Mandibular Cleft .... 233 Facial Cleft 234 Median Hare-Lip 234 Lateral Hare-Lip 234 Varieties— Unilateral . . . . .234 Alveolar ...... 234 Double 234 Effects of Hare-Lip .... 234 Treatment ...... 235 Period for Operation .... 235 Essentials for Success .... 235 Operations for— Unilateral Alveolar Hare-Lip . . 236 Double Hare-Lip . . . .237 After-Treatment ..... 238 Complications . ... 238 Development.—Before entering upon the de- scription of hare-lip and other allied congenital malformations, a brief account of the develop- ment of the face and mouth is necessary. The object of the writer being to present a summary of the more generally accepted views regarding the malformations to be considered in this article, points of controversy will not be entered into. About the third week of intra-uterine life the primitive cerebral vesicle becomes acutely bent over the end of the notochord, and around the depression thus produced, which soon deepens to form the cavity of the mouth, the face is developed by the blending of various processes. Below, the first pair of branchial arches unite in the fifth week to form the mandibular bar, from which is developed the lower jaw, the lower portion of the cheek, and the chin. On each side a bud-like projection grows in from the upper border of the root of the first branchial arch and forms the maxillary process, from which are derived the whole of the superior maxilla, except the portion which is intermaxillary, the greater part of the cheek, and the labial part of the upper lip. From above a broad process, the fronto-nasal, grows downwards between the maxillary pro- cesses, from which it is separated by a fissure (the naso-orbital fissure). Thus there are formed around the primitive mouth, or stomodseum, five processes—two man- dibular, two maxillary, and the fronto-nasal. The fronto-nasal process soon, however, mani- fests a further stage in development by dividing into two lateral and a median process, the latter splitting into two segments, which are separated by a groove. There are thus two processes on each side— the internal nasal process (globular process of His) and the external nasal process. From the internal nasal process there de- velops, superficially, the central portion of the upper lip; deeply, the inner segment (endo- gnathion) of the intermaxillary bone ; and, above the groove, the prominence of the nose. From the external nasal process is formed the side of the cheek, the ala nasi, and from its deep aspect the outer (mesognathiou) of the intermaxilla. The intermaxillary bone, developed, as men- tioned above, from the internal and external projections of the fronto-nasal process, is made up, according to Albrecht, of two ti'iangular portions on each side, known as the endognathion and mesognathiou ; the maxilla is termed the exognathion. Each segment contains an incisor tooth, and occasionally an accessory tooth is found growing from the endognathion. Tlie apices of the four intermaxillary segments con- verge towards the anterior palatine canal. The palate is developed as follows:—About the sixth week there grows inwards from thePALATE 233 buccal aspects of each maxillary process a palatal plate, which, by joining with its fellow of the opposite side in the median line, forms the whole of the soft palate and the hard palate, with the exception of the intermaxillary portion. The hard palate is completed by the junction of the anterior portions of the palatal plates with the intermaxillary portion, a space, the anterior palatine canal, being left in the median line ; the entire palatine suture is thus Y-shaped, the junction of the units being at the canal. The nasal cavity becomes divided into two halves by the growth downwards from the under surface of the fronto-nasal process of a vertical septum which vmites with the palate. From this septum the ethmoid, vomer, and cartilaginous septum are developed. The union of the various parts described is completed by the sixth to the tenth week. The fissure (naso-orbital) which separates the fronto-nasal from the maxillary process is closed, except the part which forms the nasal duct, by the union of the external nasal and internal nasal processes with the maxillary process. The continuity of the upper lip is established by the internal nasal and maxillary processes uniting below the external nasal process. The external nasal and superior maxillary processes unite first. The alveolus and upper lip are complete by the ninth week, at which period the union of the palate is commencing from before back- wards, being generally completed by the tenth week. The origin of the congenital malformations of the face and mouth can now be considered from their developmental aspect. Macrostoma arises from non-union of the mandibular and maxillary px'ocesses, while Mi- crostoma is caused by the union of these processes passing beyond the normal degree. Mandibular Cleft is the result of failure of fusion of the mandibular processes in the middle line. Facial Cleft is due to non-closure of the naso-orbital fissure. Median Hare-Lip presents two forms. 1. The severe form in which, in consequence of the non-development of the internal nasal processes, the central portion of the upper lip, the inter- maxilla, and the nasal septum, are absent. 2. In the second variety a median cleft in the upper lip arises in consequence of non-union of the two internal nasal processes. The fissure, if extending to the bones, passes between the two endognathia. Lateral Hare-Lip, when simple, i.e. limited to the soft parts, arises from failure of union between the internal nasal process with the maxillary process ; if alveolar, non-union exists between the same processes superficially, and below and above, and on the deep side between the external and internal nasal processes in addition. Cleft Palate is due to non-closure of the palatal plates. When the fissure passes beyond the anterior palatine canal it may pass between any of the intermaxillary sutures. The cleft usually runs on one or both sides, between the endognathion and mesognathion. Congenital Deformities of the Face and Mouth.—^The rarer conditions will be briefly referred to, and the commoner forms, hare-lip and cleft palate, considered in greater detail. Macrostoma. — Non-union of the maxillary and mandibular processes give rise to this de- formity, which consists in enlargement of the mouth in the transverse diameter. The extent of the fissure varies from a slight enlargement of the angle of the mouth to a gap in the cheek reaching to the last molar tooth, and sometimes as far as the auricle. If unilateral, the deficiency is usually on the right side; not infrequently the condition is bilateral. There may be other associated de- formities, such as accessory auricular append- ages, defective formation of the external ear, hare-lip, cleft palate, an imperfectly developed brain. Treatment.—Operative treatment is necessary, not only to remedy the deformity, but to im- prove the nutrition of the child. When the cleft is extensive suckling is difficult, if not impossible, food is not retained in the mouth, and saliva constantly escapes. The edges of the cleft must be pared and carefully united by suture, attention being specially directed to the mucous membrane at the angle of the mouth. Microstoma is a congenital narrowing of the mouth, brought about by union taking place between the mandibular and maxillary processes to an abnormal extent. In severe cases the opening representing the mouth may be scarcely large enough to admit a probe ; not infrequently there is a deficiency of the lower jaw. Treatment.—In well-marked cases a mouth is to be formed by making a transverse incision on either side, and accurately uniting the mucous membrane to the skin. Mandibular Cleft is one of the rarest of the congenital deformities met with in connection with the mouth. Its etiology lies in the non- closure of the lateral segments of the mandibular processes. The degree of deformity varies to a consider- able extent. Complete closure of the processes may be represented merely by two sinuses or openings in the mucous membrane of the lower lip. Such sinuses discharge mucus secreted by the glands which line their walls, and are not uncommonly associated with double hare-lip. A similar sinus has been met with in the upper lip, occupying the site of an ordinary hare-lip.PALATE 234 True mandibular cleft may involve the soft parts only, or extend to the bones. Occasionally the defect may be associated with a dermoid ; in some cases the tongue has been found to be cleft, in others the face. Treatment.—Pare the edges and close the cleft. Facial Cleft is an exceedingly rare malforma- tion, due to non-closure of the fissure between nasal and maxillary processes. The cleft, which begins in the upper lip, usually at about the same place as that met with in ordinary hare-lip, passes upwards and outwards external to the ala nasi towards the centre of the lower lid or to the inner canthus ; sometimes it extends across the orbit into the temporal region. The deformity varies in extent. As a rule, the soft parts alone are involved. When the bones are implicated, the deficiency in the alveolus is situated, as in hare-lip, between the endognathion and mesognathion; there may also be a large opening into the antrum. The cleft may be unilateral or bilateral. It may be partially or entirely represented by a thin cicatrix. Macrostoma, mandibular cleft, and coloboma of the iris or the choroid, have been found as associated conditions. Treatment.—Closure of the cleft by suitable plastic operations. Median Hare-Lip.—Two varieties of these rare conditions are described. 1. There is a wide median gap in the upper lip, due to the entire absence of its central portions, with, in addition, absence of the inter- maxillary bones and of the nasal septvmi. The nose is much flattened, and there may or may not be a cleft in the palate. Non-developmentol the internal nasal (globular) processes accounts for the deformity. 2. In a second variety a median cleft, of varying extent, is present in the upper lip, due to non-union of the globular processes. There may be no other deformity, but in some instances the intermaxilke have been found to be separate, the palate cleft, the anterior nares separate, and the nose flat. Treatment.—Operative methods on the prin- ciples of those employed for ordinary hare-lip and cleft palate. Lateral Hare-Lip presents many varieties. It may be unilateral or bilateral. Its extent may vary from a slight notch at the margin of the lip, or it may pass into the nostril—simple hare-lip. The alveolar margin may be involved —alveolar hare-lip. Or a cleft of the palate may be associated with the labial deformity— complicated hare-lip. Unilateral Hare-Lip. — The left side is usually affected. The cleft is A-shaped, with rounded margins ; the red border passes upwards for a varying extent ; in some cases skin forms the apex of the cleft. The angle at the nose may be acute or obtuse, the two sides of the fissure equal in length and inclination; fre- quently they are unequal. In consequence of the continuity of the orbi- cularis being interrupted by the fissure, and of the contraction of the muscles at the angle of the mouth, the deformity becomes aggravated with age, and best marked when the child cries. This occurs notwithstanding the fact that the lip is frequently bound down to the alveolus by reflections of mucous membrane. The frsenum is frequently long. The nostril is often flattened, even in cases where the cleft does not extend into the nose. When the fissure passes into the anterior nares, the flattening is more extensive, and it becomes extreme where the posterior wall and floor of the anterior nares are deficient. Alveolar Hare-Lip. — The bone may be partially or completely cleft, and the fissure may extend backwards to the palate. The floor of the nostril is not always implicated. According to Albrecht, whose views meet with most acceptance, the site of the alveolar cleft is between the endo- and meso-gnathion. Kblliker maintains the cleft to be mesognathic, i.e. be- tween the intermaxillary bone and the maxilla. The edges of the alveolar cleft may be on the same level; frequently they are unequal. If a complete cleft palate be present, the fissure extends backwaixls and inwards to the anterior palatine canal, and thence backwai-ds to the uvula. Double Hare-Lip.—When simple, the two fissures are often unequal in extent; thus the nostril may be involved on one side and not on the other. The outer segments of the cleft have the same characters as those met with in cases of unilateral cleft. The central segment (prolabium) is generally smaller than normal, and frequently attached to the bone beneath (os incisivum), which usually protrudes beyond it. There may be a single or double alveolar cleft. In cases of double alveolar cleft, the os incisivum, formed by the united endognathion (containing in the young child the rudiments of two pairs, temporary and permanent in- cisions), may remain in its normal position ; usually it is pushed forward and rotated, so that the alveolar margin projects in front. Cleft palate is present, and the total cleft is A-shaped. In aggravated cases the os incisivvmi, together with the adherent pi'olabium and shortened columna, supported by the vomer and nasal septum, form a proboscis-like appendage to the end of the nose. The Effects of Hare-Lip. — When the lip alone is involved, and only to a slight extent, the general health does not suffer, and the infant can take food in the natural manner. In the severer forms the patients are frequently235 PALATE feeble and badly nourished. This condition of malnutrition is not due entirely to difficulty in feeding. Such infants are weakly and feebly developed, and sometimes die in spite of the careful administration of food. Exposure of the mouth and naso-pharynx in these compli- cated cases renders attacks of catarrh of common occurrence. Treatment of Hare-Lip.—Hare-lip can only be cured by operation, the objects of which are to close the cleft as early as possible, to avoid risk to life and to obtain a satisfactory result. The attainment of these ends falls to be considered under age, state of health, and essentials for success in operating. 1. Age.—The simpler the case the earlier can the operation be undertaken. In the severer forms there are greater loss of blood and more shock, and surgical treatment is often better delayed. The operation ought to be performed before the sixth month, that is before primary dentition begins, unless there be some special reason for delay. It may be stated generally that the best time is between the sixth and twelfth week. At this period the child is better able to stand the loss of blood than at an earlier date, and the deformity has not become aggravated by delay. Some surgeons operate during the first few days or weeks of life, and this may be done in strong healthy children and in slight cases. When cleft palate complicates hare-lip the latter should always be dealt with first in the case of young children. The operation on the lip improves the palate condition. In children, after the fourth year, it is more convenient to treat the palate first and the lip subsequently. Those who operate upon the palate in infants also follow this order in operating. 2. The State of the Child's Health. — The health of the patient should be in the best possible condition. Feeble infants stand surgical interference badly, and a relatively severe operation may be attended by risk to life; further, loss of blood and its attendant shock predisposes to- wards sepsis, which is an important factor in the production of failure of primary union. If a feeble state of the general health arise from inability to take a sufficient quantity of food, careful feeding must be employed from birth. In some cases a feeding-bottle with an extra large teat will meet the requirements, in others a spoon must be employed. The head should be thrown well back, and the milk dropped into the back of the pharynx. Badly- fed and half-starved children speedily improve, as a rule, under this line of treatment. There remains, however, a group of cases in which the careful administration of food does not effect an improvement; in such, the risks attendant upon operation must be carefully considered before it is undertaken. Hare-lip operations should not be performed during the period of dentition, while the presence of coryza, stomatitis, bronchial or gastro-intestinal catarrh, or congenital syphilis call for delay. It is a good rule to leave the child under observation for some days prior to operating. 3. Essentials for Success in Operating.—In all operations for hare-lip certain essentials have to be borne in mind, of which the following are the more important : — Healing should take place by primary union. This is to be attained by asepsis, and by the absence of all tension. The flattening of the nostril must be over- come by freely separating the adherent lip from the alveolus. The separation is best effected mainly, if not entirely, on the outer side of the cleft. By adopting this plan the central portion acts as a fixed point and helps to maintain the nostril in position. Sometimes the separation may have to be carried up to the infra-orbital foramen. The ala of the nose may have to be freed, and in bad cases it may be necessary to carry an incision around the nostril. In effecting the separation the knife or scissors must be kept close to the bone, and bleeding arrested by pressure. A satisfactoiy cicatrix must result from the operation. The edges of the cleft must be freely pared, the raw surface being as wide as possible, skin accurately sutured to skin, and mucous membrane to mucous membrane, so as to leave the red margin continuous; tension is to be avoided by free separation of the lip {vide supra). Faulty paring and careless suturing leave a thin and uneven cicatrix, which is prone to gradually stretch. A notch at the red margin is to be avoided by paring the edges in a concave manner, or by turning down or across flaps or a flap {vide Operations). The resulting projection (pro- labium) ought to be rather excessive to allow for subsequent contraction. The additional essentials for complicated cases are described under the various operations. Methods of Operating.—Space does not permit of a description of the many operations which have been practised for the relief of hare-lip. Only those which the writer has foimd to be most satisfactory and to meet the requirements of most cases will be described. The various procedures may be considered under the headings of those employed in cases of single and of double hare-lip and their varieties. The Instruments req^iired. — A sharp and narrow-bladed knife, two pairs of catch forceps, blunt-pointed scissors, arterj' forceps, periosteum elevators; strong forceps such as sequestrum forceps, with the blades covered by pieces of drainage-tubing; bone forceps, and a fine saw.PALATE 236 Fine sponges, sponge-holders, sterile lint or ganze. Fine cat-gut for ligatures. For sutures, silver wire of medium thickness, silkworm-gut, horse- hair, and possibly cat-gut. Hare-lip pins are seldom necessary, and are not to be recommended. Collodion, and strips of gauze cut in the shape of a dumb-bell for dressings. Steps of the Operation.—The child should have its head slightly raised and steadied by the aneesthetist, and the movements of its arms controlled. Chloroform is the more suitable antesthetic. The surgeon stands on the side to be operated upon, or at the head of the patient. His assistant controls the coronary arteries by grasping the lip between the finger and thumb, and sees that no blood enters the air passages. Operations for Unilateral Hare-Lip.—I. When the cleft is partial, and the nose not flattened. The simplest operation is Nelaton's. A A- shaped incision is made parallel to, and just outside, the edge of the notch through the whole thickness of the lip. The mucous membrane is drawn down, and the A incision converted into a ^. Sutures are now inserted, and the ^-shaped opening closed, so that a vertical cicatrix will result, with a projection of the red margin of the lip. The projection may at first be excessive, but it afterwards diminishes in size. The stages of the operation may be represented thus A, {). This method is not so satisfactory as a primary operation, but is extremely useful when, as the result of a previous operation, a notch has been left at the red margin of the lip. A better plan is to pare the edges so as to leave a concave surface on each side, at the same time removing the apex of the cleft, or to employ one of the methods advised for a com- plete cleft. IL Li partial cases, where the nose is flattened, a strip of the whole thickness of the lip must be removed by an incision prolonged into the nostril, and the ala nasi freed, as in cases of complete cleft. IIL When the cleft is complete, and extends into the nostril. 1. The lip and ala nasi must be freely separated from the bone in the manner already described. 2. The edges are pared. Many methods have been employed, which vary according to the degree of symmetry of the margins of the cleft. {a) The simplest method, where the margins are equal, is to pare them by carrying incisions directly downwards, and parallel to the outside edge of each cleft, and to prolong the incisions sufficiently to remove the rounded margins of the cleft at the red border of the lip. This method yields excellent results. (b) The incisions may be made parallel to the margins of the cleft, terminating just above the labial margins, at which spot two transverse incisions are made in the substance of the lip. This enables two tags or flaps to be turned down, in order to form a projection. If the tags be too long, they may be shortened to the necessary extent. (c) The method of Rose yields very satisfactory results. The edges of the cleft are pared in a crescentic manner until the muco-cutaneous junction is reached; the knife is then turned, and the mucous membrane of the lip cut at an angle of about 60° to the former incision. The depth of the lip is thus increased, and no notch results. If this method be employed where the nose is much flattened, more tissue ought to be removed from the outer side than the inner. Where there is a wide gap, and marked in- equality of the margins of the cleft, the flap method of Mirault, or one of its numerous modi- fications, is very serviceable. The inner mesial margin is pared in an angular method, so as to leave a raw surface ; the outer margin is pared, and a flap as thick as possible obtained from the outer side. The edges of the pared cleft are then united, and the flap brought across and attached to the inner margin. When the nose is much flattened the outer wall of the nostril should always be rawed, and also the opposing side of the septum, so that these surfaces may be brought together. Instead of paring the edges of the cleft, they may be split. This method, which saves sacri- fice of tissue, is especially useful where the margins of the cleft are thin. It is founded upon the principles of the operation, introduced by the late Mr. Duncan many years ago, for the closure of faecal fistula, and has been strongly advocated by Mr. Chiene. The lip is split at the junction of skin and mucous membrane nearly down to the red margin, sufficient room being left to turn down two tags to form a prolabium. The fissure is closed by uniting the skin to skin, and mucous membrane to mucous membrane. Unilateral Alveolar Hare-Lip.—In this variety the deformity is usually great, and the nose markedly broadened. The margins of the cleft alveolus may be on the same level; usually they are not. A useful preliminary to the operation, in cases where the margins are un- equal, is to have gradual pressure made by the mother or nurse upon the projecting margin, combined with outward traction upon the de- pressed side. By this means considerable improvement is often brought about. If this has not been done, the pressure of the sutured lip will suffice in slight cases to overcome the projection. When the deformity is very marked thePALATE 237 projecting margin of the bony cleft must be forced into position by strong forceps, the blades of which are covered by rubber tubing, or it may be necessary to fracture the prominent alveolus or divide it with a fine saw about one inch external to the cleft, and, having pared the edges of the cleft, to suture them into position. In order to overcome the extreme broadening of the nostril an incision curved round the ala nasi may be required. The other steps of the operation ai-e similar to those already described. Double Hare-Lip.—The operation for the cure of complicated cases of double hare-lip will be considered under the headings of (1) simple cases, where the os incisivum retains its normal position; (2) where the bone projects forwards. 1. Where there is no projection :— (1) The soft parts are freely separated from the jaws, and the prolabium from the os in- cisivum. (2) The margins of the cleft are pared by one of the methods already mentioned. The pro- labium is also pared in a rectangular or V-shaped manner, so that it will fit in between the pared edges of the lip when they are brought together. When the cleft is complete the incision must be carried into the nostril in the manner already described, in order to overcome the flattening of the nose ; and in aggravated cases it is often necessary to carry an incision around each ala nasi, and to freely separate the nostril from the bone. In these cases the removal of an elliptical portion of skin allows the lip to come readily together without giving rise to undue narrowing of the nose. The precautions already mentioned as neces- sary to prevent a notch at the red margin must be adopted. The method of closing the pared cleft merits attention. The prolabium must not be brought down to the red margin, otherwise the tip of the nose will be depressed. In cases of moderate severity the apex of the V is fixed above the middle of the new lip. In others the prolabium can only be used to form a columella, and merely its tip brought between the lateral segments. 2. Where the os incisivum projects, the methods of dealing with the projection vary according to the degree of deformity. The bone may be replaced, excised subperiosteally, or entirely removed. Complete excision leaves the central portion of the lip unsupported, and ought to be reserved for cases where the pro- jection is very great or its neck of attachment very narrow. (1) The soft parts are freely separated from the bone, and the projection is forced into position and the cleft closed. (2) In greater degrees of deformity the opera- tion is best done in two stages—the central portion dissected off' the bone, which is dealt with by one of the following methods, and a week or ten days later the cleft is closed. (a) K-shaped portion may be removed after the mucous membrane and periosteum have been detached from the septum. The bone is then replaced, and retained in position by wire sutures passed through the alveolar margins. If the sutures be left somewhat long the child's tongue will not press against the bone. (6) Partial removal of the bone overcomes the deformity, and the subsequent formation of new bone supports the upper lip. An incision may be made along the lower border of the projection, and a portion of the bone together with the teeth be gouged away; or, a subperi- osteal excision may be performed through a similar incision, and the remaining flaps united to the anterior and posterior margins of the rawed alveolar borders. (c) Entire reriioval of the os incisivum is accomplished by dividing the neck with bone forceps. Bleeding can usually be arrested by pressure ; sometimes a touch with the cautery is necessary. Closure of the cleft is eff'ected in the manner already described. The broadened nostrils and shortened columella require especial attention. In aggravated cases the closure of the cleft may be performed in two stages, one side being operated upon first and the other subsequently closed. This method in cases of extreme defor- mity yields excellent results. Suturing the Cleft.—The best materials are silver wire or silkworm-gut for the deep, and horse-hair for the superficial stitches. Cat-gut is employed by many for the mucous membrane. Hare-lip pins are seldom advisable or necessa^3^ The cutaneous portion of the cleft should be carefully sutured, care being taken to prevent inversion of the edges, and the red margins of i the lip, the projecting tags of mucous membrane, or the flap, according to the method of paring which has been employed, drawn evenly and accurately together. The number of deep sutures necessary (silver wire of moderate size is the best material) when the gap is a wide one will depend upon the extent of the cleft. The needle is introduced about one-third of an inch from the rawed surface and carried down to, but not through, the mucous membrane. If this plan be adopted, it is not necessary to unite the mucous mem- brane on the buccal aspect by cat-gut. In a complete cleft three deep stitches are usually required—one at the top of the cleft close up to the nose, a second about the middle, and the third just above the red margin of the lip. All these sutures ai-e passed, and the accuracy of their position tested before the wire is tied. Two or more intermediate superficial sutures of horse-hair are then introduced, and finally the red margin is brought accurately together on its external, internal, and inferior aspectsPALATE 238 by very fine horse-hair, or by cat-gut, if that material be preferred. In Mirault's operation or its modifications the first deep suture is passed so as to draw the angle of the pared inner margin into that formed by the flap turned down from the outer margin. In double hare-lip the upper wire suture should pass through the lateral portions and the base of the central V-shaped portion, if that be of sufficient size, the second through the apex of the V, while the third unites the lateral portions only. Where, however, the columella is short the upper suture passes through the apex of the V. Dressing.—The parts are carefully cleansed of blood, and in many cases a dressing is not necessary. The wound can, however, be pro- tected and steadied by applying a dressing of sterile gauze cut in the shape of a dumb-bell. One of the ends is fixed by means of flexile collodion : when it is dry the cheeks are pushed forwards, the narrow portion carried across tlie wound, and tlie other end fixed to the cheek by collodion. The cheeks are held forward until the collodion is dry. No collodion is applied to the wound. After the stitches have been removed, plaster cut in a similar manner is used for three or four weeks in order to prevent the cicatrix stretching. Aftbr-Treatmbnt.—Where the gap has been wide and the nostrils much flattened, the child has to be carefully watched for at least twenty- four hours after the operation, lest it suffocate. A small piece of tubing may be passed into the nostrils, and the nurse should be instructed to see that the lower lip does not act as a valve, and to draw it down with the finger from time to time. Care should also be taken to prevent the child pulling at the sutures. The patient should be carefully and regu- larly fed witli a spoon. No food should be allowed to touch the lip until the wound is healed. The stitches can, as a rule, all be removed by the end of a week. The wire sutui-es may be taken out, or one or more of them divided and left in position from the fourth day onwards. The horse-hair sutures are the last to be removed. Complications.—If primary union completely fail, and the child's health be satisfactory, the edges of the wound may be at once rawed and brought together ; if failure be partial, carefully drawing the edges together with plaster will usually bring about union by granulation. The cicatrix will, however, be more or less a broad one, and the lip will have to be supported for a considerable time in order to prevent stretching. Death sometimes occurs after the operation in feeble children, from lung or other com- plications. Faulty results may have to be remedied. A notch in the red margin may be treated by N^laton's or other methods. The flattened upper lip met with after the removal of the os incisivum can be improved by the adjuvant of a plate with artificial incisors. Pa,la,tine.—Belonging to the palate, e.g. the palatine arches, artery, foramen, fossa, nerves, etc. Pa,la,tinoidS.—A proprietary name for cachets of soluble jujube containing unpleasant or nauseous drugs, the taste of which is thus concealed. PcllatO-. — In compound words palato- (Lat. palattim, palate) means relating to the palate; e.g. palatognathous (affected with cleft palate), palatoplasty (reparative operations on the palate), palatopterygoid (relating to the palatine and pterygoid bones), palatorrhaphy (the closure of a cleft palate), etc. PaiatOgrlOSSUS. See Palate (^Anatomy). Palatopharyng^euS. See Palate {Anatomy). Palatoschisis. — The malformation known as cleft palate. See Palate {Cleft Palate). Palermo. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Italian, Sicily). Palfyn's Forceps. See Labour, Operations {Forceps, Invention). Paling'enesiS.—That form of develop- ment or ontogenesis in which ancestral char- acters are reproduced without modification {Haeckel); it is derived from Gr. iraXw, again, and yeVecrts, birth ; it is opposed to kenogenesis. Palladium.—A rare metal of the plati- num group, usually associated with platinum, and resembling silver; its symbol is Pd, and its atomic weight is 126; it has been used in the treatment of tuberculosis (3 per cent solution of chloride of palladium). Palliative Treatment.—That form of medical or (less often) surgical treatment which is not expected to cure the disease or prevent a fatal issue, but which, it is hoped, will relieve suffering and perhaps prolong life, e.g. in cases of cancer. Pallium.—The outer part of each cerebral hemisphere, characterised by the presence of fissures. Pallor. See Chlorosis {Symptoms); Nose,239 PALLOR Post - nasal Adenoid Growths {Symptoms); Scurvy, Infantile {Clinical Features). Pa,llTia.r.—Belonging to the flexor aspect of the hand, e.g. the palmar arch, fascia, etc. See Arteries, Ligature of {Superficial Palmar Arch); Fascia {D^ipuytren^s Contraction); Hand {Compound Palmar Ganglion). PcLlnriciriS. — Palmar; e.g. the palmaris longus muscle, palmaris brevis, etc. PalmitBC Acid.—A fatty acid, CjgHgj O.OH, obtained from palm-oil, and existing as glyceryl palmitate in many animal and vegetable fats. Pa.lmitine. — Palm-oil fat or glyceryl tripalmitate, CgjHggOg or C.;fl^{C^QH^-fi^)^. See Physiology, Tissues {Connective Tissues, Fat Cells). Palpation.—A method of clinical ex- amination in which the hands of the examiner are laid upon a part of the body and moved in such a way as to determine the condition of the underlying structures. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Physical Examination, Abdomen, Palpation); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Abdominal Examination); Labour, Precipitate AND Prolonged {Pelvimetry); Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths {Symptomatology, Palpation of Naso-Pharynx). Palpebral.—Belonging to the eyelids, e.g. the palpebral fissure, palpebral conjunctiva, etc. See Eyelids, Affections of. Paipebration.—Nictitation or winking. Palpebrine. — A proprietary prepara- tion used for external application in diseases of the eye. Palpitation is the too forcible or too frequent beating of the heart, whereby its action becomes perceptible to the individual. It is due to an increased excitability of the heart muscle, and may be induced by a variety of different causes. It is an unimportant symptom in the majority of cases of organic cardiac disease (see vol. iv. p. 107), and is usually dependent on a so-called functional dis- order of the heart. The subjective symptoms associated with it vary in degree and kind according to the individuality of the patient. Some subjects merely experience a slight dis- comfort from the sensation caused by the un- natural impact of the heart; in others the distress is considerable. Objectively the apex beat is, as a rule, too diffuse and sharp in character, with irregularity in action. In severe cases, the whole prsecordia may be the seat of impact, more especially in those cases where the symptom is one of organic cardiac disease. The degree of subjective disturbance bears no constant ratio to the objective change. The causes are predisposing and exciting. Of the former, a naturally nervous constitution is by far the most important. The exciting cause is usually to be found in a temporary derange- ment of one or other viscus, and more especially those rich in nervous connections with the central nervous systems via the sympathetic nervous system. Gastric and intestinal derangements probably account for more than nine-tenths of the cases. Constipation and a faulty dietary are responsible for these. Some degrees of hepatic derange- ment are usually associated with and dependent on this gastro-intestinal disturbance. The most striking cases that come under observation are probably those which have been at an earlier date the subject of dilatation of the heart, and which have made a very slow, and it may be an incomplete, recovery. If this occurs in a nervous subject, we have the ideal ground for the frequent development of those subjective sensations that are popularly called palpitation, and a slight derangement of the digestion may readily induce the symptoms. With regard to treatment, the first essential is to relieve the patient's mind as to the relatively unimportant nature of his ailment. In the second place, we have to look for a source of reflex irritation in the gastro-intestinal canal and its adnexa and other organs, and counteract it. A blue pill, followed by a morning saline and a simple diet, constitutes the best line of treatment. Consti- tutional remedies are sometimes called for, and then a short rest from active physical or mental work, with gentle exercise in the fresh air and a general tonic, will be found most useful. Local treatment—the application of a Bella- donna plaster, or in chronic cases a cantharidis blister—is serviceable in some cases, and in this class of cases the administration of bromides and other cardiac sedatives will conduce to a more rapid recovery. The practitioner must judge for himself the state of the cardiac muscle. A careful investigation of the case may suggest the advisability of administering small doses of a direct cardiac tonic, e.g. digi- talis, the use of which may be attended with marked benefit. But great care is called for in the selection of cases suitable for this line of treatment. See also Alcoholism {Intoxication, Visceral Effects); Beriberi {Symptoms); Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Symptomatology) ; Stomach and Duodenum {General Symptomato- logy) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exopihthalmic Goitre, Circulatory System). Palsy. See Paralysis. Paludism.—Malarial fever (Lat. palus, a marsh). See Malaria {Synonyms).PAMPINIFORM 240 Pampiniform. —Tendril-like; having the curled form of a vine tendril (Lat. pampinus, a vine shoot); e.g. the pampiniform plexus of veins in association with the testis in the male and lying in the broad ligament of the female. Pa.mpleg'ia..—General paralysis (Gr. Tras, all, Trkyjyrj, stroke). Pan-.—In compound words ^ww- (Gr. ttSs, all) signifies fully, wholly, or altogether; e.g. panblastic (originating from all the germinal layers), pangermism (the doctrine which attri- butes all disease to germs), panhidrosis (general perspiration), jmn-nenritis (multiple neuritis), 2)anotitis (inflammation of the internal and middle ear), etc. Panacea.—A universal remedy or cure- all (Gr. iravaKrjs, all-healing). Panada.—Bread boiled and soaked in water (Lat. p)anis, bread) and flavoured with nutmeg, etc. Panaris. — Paronychia. See Syphilis {Secondary, Paronychia). Panarthritis.—Inflammation of all the structures of a joint. See Joints, Diseases of {Arthritis). Panax.—A genus of araliaceous plants, supposed to have all-healing qualities {irava^, all-healing); ginseng, the root of a species of Panax or Aralia, used in China as a diuretic and diaphoretic. Pan Closet. — A form of water-closet, now generally condemned as insanitary. See Sewage and Drainage (Water-Closets). Pancreas. Physiology of . . . 240 Diseases of ..... . 245 Physiology Histology and Development . . . 240 Chemistry of the Gland . . . 240 Chemistry of the Pancreatic Juice . 241 Effects Produced on Digestion and Absorption by Obstruction of the Duct or Excision of the Gland . 242 Effects op Complete and Partial Re- moval OF the Gland on General Metabolism ..... 243 Theories with Regard to the Cause OF Pancreatic Diabetes. . . 244 See also Children, Development of {Glandu- lar Organs, Pancreas); Digestion and Meta- bolism {Pancreatic Secretion, Enzymes); Embry- ology ; Intestines, Diseases of {Physiological Considerations, Pancreas); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Pancreas, Hormones). The pancreas is a compound tubular or tubulo- acinar gland. The main duct or duct of Wirsung and its larger branches are lined by columnar epithelium, which is 13 to 18 /x high in the large divisions, and becomes lower (5 to 7 fjL) in the smaller or interlobular branches. External to the epithelium lies elastic fibrous tissue, containing blood - vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The latter is continued into the glandular substance of the pancreas, subdivid- ing it into lobes and lobules. The interlobular ducts end in " intermediate pieces " or ductules lined by long (12 /x), flattened (about 2 to 3 m. in height) epithelial cells. These ductules sub- divide repeatedly within the lobule before they terminate in the secretory or glandular subules. At their junction with the secretory tubules their lining epithelium is in some parts con- tinued a longer or shoi'ter distance into the interior of the secretory tubules, thus forming an epithelial layer internal to the glandular epithelium proper. In consequence of their position they have been described by Langerhans as the centro-acinar cells. In stained prepara- tions they may be readily distinguished from the true secretory cells by their shape and the characters of their nuclei, which are ellipsoidal and poor in chromatin. The true glandular tissue of the pancreas, in which the duct system terminates, consists of long, highly convoluted and branched tubules, possessing numerous lateral diverticula. The lumen of the tubules, which vary from 1 to 2 yu. in diameter, is bounded by cells having a more or less cone-like form, the blunt apex of the cone being directed towards the lumen. The form of the cells, however, varies considerably, so as to become adapted to the manifold convolutions and diverticula of the tubules. In their greatest diameter they vary in size from 7 to 19 //. Microscopical examination of the pancreas of the living rabbit shows that the protoplasm of each cell consists of two zones—an inner granular and an outer, more homogeneous zone, showing a faint longitudinal striation. During secretion the granules of the inner zone gradually undergo solution and extrusion into the lumen of the tubule. The tubules of the actively secreting glands may readily be distinguished from those of the resting gland by the fact that the base- ment membrane is thrown into folds corre- sponding in position to the subjacent cells. The outlines of the cells are sharply marked off in the actively secreting tubule, whereas in the resting tubule they are indistinct and the con- tour of the basement membrane is smooth. In preparations fixed with alcohol and stained with carmine, the outer zone is stained of a bright red, while the inner zone is only faintly stained. During hunger the granular inner zone is broad, the finely striated outer zone forming the narrow external border of the cell. During the first period of digestion the inner zone diminishes in size, the outer zone increases, and the cell, as a whole, becomes slightly smaller.PANCREAS— After active secretion has ceased, a gradual restitution of the cell to its condition during hunger is established. Changes similar to those during the first stage of digestion may also be produced by the injection of pilocarpine. Heidenhain has shown that the quantity of trypsin present in the secretion varies directly with the development of the inner granular zone. In the case of dogs, in which a permanent pancreatic fistula had been formed, he found that the greatly diminished activity of the pancreatic juice was associated with almost entire absence of granules from the inner zone. He has shown that trypsin is only present in the pancreatic juice, not in the resting cells, since a fresh pancreas in the resting condition, showing a well-developed granular zone, yields on extraction with glycerine little or no trypsin, but its precursor, or zymogen. He therefore concludes that the granules within the cells contain only zymogens. The zymogen granules are highly refractile, easily soluble in alkalies, and become brown when treated with osmic acid. These facts induced early observers to regard them as fatty globules. They are, how- ever, much less stable than fat rapidly swelling and then undergoing solution when treated with water. On account of this instability the granules are difficult to fix, the deeper parts of the tissue often escaping the action of the fixatives, the best of which for this purpose are corrosive sublimate and osmic acid. The granules lie in the interstices of a spongioplasmic meshwork, which stains readily with acid dyes. In the outer zone of the cell the spongioplasmic strands are arranged longitudinally, and appear to be amphophil in their relation to staining reagents. At the junction between the two zones lies the nucleus, which in the living cell is spherical; while in fixed preparations it is often ellipsoidal and slightly shrunken. When suitably stained, it shows a somewhat wide- meshed chromatic network, and one or occasion- ally two nuclei. By means of injection and the use of Golgis method, it has been shown that intercellular secretory capillaries extend laterally from the central lumen of each glandular tubule between the cells as far as the outer limit of the inner granular layer. None of these capillaries reach the basement membrane. The secretory capil- laries appear to end within the cells in secretory vacuoles. The latter, which may be readily demonstrated by the use of Golgi's method, are not to be regarded as fixed preformed structures —since they vary much in number, size, and position —but as resulting from the solution of zymogen granules during secretion. Scattered throughout the substance of the pancreas, usually in the interior of the primary tubules, more rarely at the periphery, occur a number of rounded or irregularly-formed masses of cells, ranging in diameter from -07 to -3 mm. VOL. VII PHYSIOLOGY 241 These groups of cells have received the name of Langerhans' cell islets, and are present in the pancreas of all those mammals in which they have been looked for, as well as in the pancreas of birds, reptiles, and amphibians. They are separated from the rest of the gland substance by a more or less distinct connective- tissue capsule. The epithelial cells within the islet are arranged as a meshwork of anasto- mosing cell columns. The spaces left between the cell columns contain large capillary blood- vessels whose endothelial walls lie in direct contact with the epithelial cells. As a rule, each cell column consists of two or more rows of cells. Occasionally, however, a cell column may be found consisting of a single row of cells. Ducts, although sought for by numerous observers, have not been discovered, so that the only channels by which the products of activity of the cells can be transported are the blood and lymph streams. The rich supply of capil- lary blood-vessels, and their intimate relation with the epithelium, obviously favour metabolic interchange between the epithelium and the blood. The epithelial cells, forming an islet, may readily be distinguished from the glandular cells of the pancreas proper by the absence of the division into an inner granular and an outer, more homogeneous zone, and by the uniformly faintly granular character of their protoplasm. The cells, which vary from 9 to 12 /x in diameter, are roughly polygonal in shape, and in fixed preparations are seen to possess a finely meshed spongioplasm. Their nuclei are ellipsoidal, have a fine chromatic network, and contain nucleoli of much smaller size than those present in the nuclei of the glandular cells of the pancreas proper. Occasionally a nucleus of unusually large size may be found. The pancreas of the himian subject develops as a single dorsal protrusion and a double ventral protrusion of the hypoblast lining the upper part of the small intestine. The ventral protrusions later on fuse to form a single mass, and at a still later date fusion of the dorsal and ventral precursors of the gland takes place. The original duct of the dorsal protrusion be- comes the duct of Santorini, while the duct of the ventral part becomes the duct of Wirsung. Laguesse has shown that, in the case of the sheep, the cell islets of Langerhans develop from the same region of the hypoblast as the pancreas proper. While the pancreas has long been known to produce an external secretion, it has only recently been shown to exert an important influence on general metabolism. For fuller details with regard to the nature, mechanism of production, and nervous control of the ex- ternal secretion, reference must be made to the article on " Digestion and Metabolism." A resume of the main facts with regard to the 16242 PANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY chemistry of the gland and its secretions, together with a more complete account of its influence on general metabolism, forms the contents of the remainder of this article. The pancreas of the human subject contains about 74-53 per cent of water, 24'57 per cent of organic, and 0"95 per cent of inorganic solids. The chief organic solids are albumin, globulin, nucleoproteid, and the enzymes found also in the external secretion. Leucin, tyrosin, and the purin bases—xanthin, hypoxanthin, guanin, and adenin—are the chief nitrogenous extrac- tives. Lactic acid, volatile fatty acids, neutral fats, and inosite, are the chief non-nitrogenous extractives. The most characteristic proteid constituent, the nucleoproteid a obtained by Hammarsten from the pancreas of the ox, is soluble in water and dilute alkalies, precipitated from its solution by dilute acetic acid, and possesses a powerful proteolytic action. On heating its solution, nucleoproteid a splits up into a coagulated albumin and a nucleoproteid /3, containing 4-48 per cent phosphorus. The latter is soluble in water and dilute alkalies, and precipitable by the addition of dilute acetic acid. On digestion with pepsin in acid solution nucleoproteid /3 yields, amongst other products, a nuclein from which Bang prepared a nucleic acid—guanylic acid—with marked differences from the other known nucleic acids. It is sohxble in water and dilute alkalies, and pre- cipitable by dilute acetic acid as well as by dilute mineral acids. While the normal relation of nitrogen to phosphorus in nucleic acid is 3:1, in guanylic acid the relation is 5 : L The nucleic acid prepared from the nucleoproteid of the pancreas has received the name guanylic acid, because only one purin base, guanin, has as yet been obtained from it. Amongst the products of its decomposition is a pentose which appears sometimes to be present in the urine in cases of pancreatic disease, and whose presence there may in the future be useful as an aid to differential diagnosis. In 64 out of 80 cases of diabetes in the human subject, Kiilz found a pentose present in the urine. The results of Jolles indicate that a nucleoproteid yielding pentose on heating with dilute acids occurs in the urine in some cases of pancreatic disease. After saturating with magnesium sulphate a urine from which he had heen previously able to prepare an osazone, Jolles found that the filtrate yielded no osazone ; while the precipitate, which contained phosphorus in organic combina- tion, after being heated with a dilute mineral acid, yielded a solution from which a pentosa- zone could be prepared. The external secretion of the pancreas may be best obtained in a pure state from an animal having a permanent fistula made by Pawlow's method. It is a clear, colourless, odourless, and alkaline fluid, containing, along with coagulable proteid, four enzymes, a proteolytic, trypsin, a fat-splitting, steapsin, an amylolytic, amylopsin, and a milk-curdling ferment. In addition to the above, it contains leucin, tyrosin, and small quantities of fats and soaps. The chief mineral constituents are chlorides of the alkalies, espe- cially sodium chloride, alkaline carbonates and phosphates, as well as small quantities of calcium, magnesium, and iron. The composition of the juice varies considerably, according to the nature of the diet. Any variation in the relative pro- portions of proteid, carbohydrate, and fat in the diet is followed by a corresponding variation in the relative proportions of the enzymes necessary for their digestion. Ligature or obstruction of the pancreatic duct leads to a diminution of the digestion and ab- sorption of the various food-stuffs without any direct influence on general metabolism ; while complete excision of the gland produces, in addi- tion to these eff"ects on digestion and absorption, the condition known as pancreatic diabetes. With regard to the effects of removal of the pancreatic juice from the intestine on the digestion of proteids, carbohydrates, and fats, the results of different observers vary con- siderably ; 18 to 80 per cent of the proteids of the food, and about 50 per cent of the carbo- hydrate, when given as polysaccharides of glucose, are stated to be absorbed. Fat, except in the form of the fat in milk, is not absorbed. Harley states that dogs are in some cases only able to absorb 4 per cent of the fat of milk, while Minkowski found that 28 to 53 per cent was absorbed. Probably the difference in the observations of Harley and Minkowski is due, in part at least, to variations in the extent of bacterial decomposition occurring in the intes- tines of the dogs examined. After complete excision of the pancreas in dogs a diabetes of the severest type invariably follows. Extirpation of the pancreas produces the same effect on cats. In rabbits, extirpation is rendered almost impossible by the anatomical relations of the gland, and experiments in this direction have led to doubtful results. Min- kowski succeeded in almost completely excising the pancreas of a pig, and found that a diabetes of medium severity followed. So far as re- searches on birds have been carried out, it appears that in birds of prey diabetes follows excision of the pancreas, whereas in geese and pigeons Minkowski's experiments led to negative results. More recently Kausch has succeeded in producing diabetes in geese and ducks by excision of the pancreas. After excision of the pancreas in frogs no sugar appears in the urine until some time —usually five days—after the operation. The following description refers mainly to the effects produced by extirpation of the pancreas in dogs. The excretion of sugar does not commence innnediately after the operation. In the ma- jority of cases only traces up to 1 per cent are243 PANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY found in the urine during the first twenty-four hours, on the following day about 4 to 6 per cent, and only on the third day does the ex- cretion attain a maximum of about 8 to 10 per cent. If at this stage no nourishment be given, the quantity of sugar excreted gradually sinks; yet, even after the dog has remained without food for seven days, sugar is still to be found in the urine. The quantity of sugar excreted can necessarily only be a measure of the severity of the diabetes if carbohydrates be excluded from the diet, or if the quantity of carbohydrates present in the food and faeces be also estimated. If the animal be kept in a state of hunger or on a purely proteid diet, the quantity of sugar excreted, however variable from day to day, bears a fairly constant relation (2'8 : 1) to the quantity of nitrogen present in the urine. Devi- ations from this numerical relation are usually found to occur shortly after the operation and also shortly before death. The two chief factors that have to be considei-ed in explaining the former deviation are, first, the gradual increase in the severity of the diabetes, and, secondly, the condition of the animal prior to the opera- tion. In badly nourished animals the normal relation, 2*8 parts of glucose to 1 part of nitrogen, was only gradually reached ; while in well-nourished animals having presumably a considerable quantity of glycogen stored in the liver and muscles, the quantity of sugar ex- creted increased much more rapidly, attaining temporarily in some cases values much exceeding the normal relation of 2'8 : 1. The most prob- able explanation of the diminished excretion of sugar that occurs shortly before death is that the production of sugar from proteid is dis- turbed owing to the fall in the nutrition and strength of the animal. The production of sugar by the organism, in so far as it occurs at the expense of the proteids, is to be regarded as a very complex process, in which synthetic as well as hydrolytic and oxidative processes play a part, so that one can readily understand that this function may be much interfered with by any failure of the vital powers of the organism, such as that occurring during fever or at the approach of death. If the pancreas be only partially excised, the severity of the diabetes produced varies greatly according to the amount of gland substance left intact. If ^ to of the gland substance be left untouched, an alimentary glycosuria is the only result. If the excision be somewhat more complete, a diabetes of medium severity results. The diabetes following incomplete excision tends to gradually increase in severity, probably as the result of atrophic changes occurring in the portion of gland left untouched. Exact numeri- cal data with regard to the amount of gland necessary to prevent the occurrence of diabetes are wanting. If a portion of the pancreas be transplanted to the subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall, and the remainder of the gland be then excised, it is found that no glycosuria occurs in those cases in which the transplantation has been completely successful. Occasionally the oper- ation is followed by a slight transitory glyco- suria. Diabetes of the severest type immediately follows excision of the transplanted portion of gland. Ligature of the vessels supplying the transplanted piece of gland also induces dia- betes ; while no permanent glycosuria follows ligature of its veins. Minkowski considers the latter fact to be important as an indication that the direct passage of blood from the transplanted portion of gland into the portal vein is not necessary for the prevention of pancreatic diabetes. It may be concluded from these results that there is no direct relation between the external secretion of the pancreas and that function which regulates the metabolism of glucose. A consideration of these facts naturally leads to the question as to whether these two apparently independent functions are dependent upon the activity of the same cellular elements. Schafer has suggested that the specific function of the pancreas in the metabolism of sugar is controlled by the cells in the cell islets of Langerhans. As evidence in favour of this view may be adduced the fact that diabetes has in several cases been found to be associated with degener- ative changes in the epithelial cells of the islets of Langerhans without any other destructive pathological lesion of the pancreas. Relation of Diabetes Mellitm to lesion of the Pancreas. — Opie has described in a paper {Journ. of Exp. Med., vol. v., March 25) changes in the Langerhans islets in various forms of chronic interstitial pancreatitis. So long as the fibrous tissue overgrowth did not penetrate within the lobules, the islets were not aff"ected and diabetes did not ensue. In two out of three cases of interstitial pancreatitis, diabetes mellitus was present. Opie also, in a previous paper, described a peculiar lesion of the pancreas in a case of diabetes mellitus where the islets were replaced by areas of hyaline material. He describes the reactions of this material to different stains. The description of the case in his most recent paper is very interesting, show- ing that diabetes mellitus may occur when the ordinary secretory cells are normal and the Langerhans cells degenerated. In order to obtain an insight into the nature of the disturbance of metabolism, which under- lies pancreatic diabetes, it is important to consider the fate of the different forms of carbo- hydrates within the organism of the diabetic animal. Glucose and its anhydrides, in so far as the latter undergo digestion, are absorbed and excreted as glucose without apparently undergoing any change within the organism. It is true that the increased excretion of glucose244 PANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY by the diabetic animal, after a diet rich in polysaccharides of glucose, does not exactly correspond to the quantity of glucose absorbed as estimated by the difference between the amount of polysaccharides present in the food and that passing out in the fteces. In all probability this deficit is to be explained not by the supposition that a part of the glucose is utilised within the diabetic organism, but by the hypothesis that part of the carbohydrate within the intestine is decomposed by organised ferments into lactic acid, butyric acid, carbon dioxide, and other products. The absence of the pancreatic juice from the intestinal canal, by diminishing the digestion and absorption of carbohydrates, leads to their prolonged retention within the alimentaiy canal, and thus gives an opportunity for the action of organised ferments. When maltose is given to dogs after excision of the pancreas, glucose alone is found in the urine, and the amount in the urine corresponds almost exactly to the quantity of glucose deriv- able by hydrolysis of the maltose given. The investigation of the fate of the Isevo- rotatory hexose Isevulose and its derivatives has led to very interesting results. When Isevulose is given, only traces of it appear in the urine, while the quantity of glucose excreted is much increased, the relation of the quantity of glucose to that of nitrogen mounting in some cases from 2'8 : 1 to 11 : 1. Part of the Ifevulose is utilised within the body, while the remainder is converted into glucose and excreted as such. If large quantities of Ifevulose be given, traces of unchanged Ifevulose appear in the urine. On the other hand, if its anhydride inulin be given even in large doses, no tevulose appears in the urine, presumably on account of slow conversion of inulin into liBvulose within the alimentary canal, so that large quantities of leevulose are not present there at any given time. Cane-sugar is inverted by an intestinal enzyme, and acts in the same way as the equal parts of ghicose and Ifevulose derivable from it. After the introduction of lactose into the alimentary canal of diabetic dogs, only glucose in increased amount is found in the urine, none of the lactose being excreted unchanged. Galactose also produces an increased excretion of glucose. None of it is excreted unchanged. With regard to the changes in the fluids and organs of diabetic dogs, tlie following ;xre the chief facts. The quantity of sugar in the blood is markedly increased, reaching values of from •3 to -4 per cent. If, after extirpation of the pancreas, the kidneys be also excised, the percentage of glucose in the blood is found to rise to -6 to -7. This result is most simply explained by a lessened utilisation of sugar within the body, in consequence of which the cessfition of the secretion of urine leads to the accumulation of glucose in the blood. The quantity of glycogen in the leucocytes is much increased, being four to five times as great as normal. This increase is the more interesting in view of the absence or diminution of glycogen in the liver. In the severest form of diabetes consequent upon complete extirpation of the pancreas, only traces of glycogen are to be found in the liver a few days after death. It is obvious that the absence of glycogen from the liver is not due to any want of material for its formation, since the quantity of glucose in the blood is largely increased, and a diet rich in starch does not perceptibly increase the quantity of glycogen in the liver. These facts favour the view that there is an intimate relation between the absence or diminution of glycogen in the liver and the accumulation of glucose in the blood. If Ifevulose be given after excision of the pancreas, the quantity of glycogen in the liver is distinctly increased. The glycogen formed imder these conditions was found to be identical with that deposited in the liver of a normal animal yielding on hydrolysis with dilute acid the dextro-rotatory glucose. The quantity of glycogen in the muscles is also increased by the administration of Ifevulose. The muscles of dogs after extirpation of the pancreas apparently contain less lactic acid than the muscles of a normal animal. The quantity of glycogen is also diminished, but not so markedly as in the case of the liver. The quantity of urine passed and the total nitrogen excreted are markedly increased. The presence of acetone, aceto-acetic acid, and /3-oxy- butyric acids is inconstant, their occurrence in the urine after excision of the pancreas being indeed the exception rather than the rule. Usually they are met with at a late stage of the disease, when the animal shows marked disturbance of nutrition, indicated by great loss of weight and strength. The largest amount of - oxybutyric acid found in the urine of twenty-four hours was 4 gms. It must, how- ever, be borne in mind that the quantity of y8-oxybutyric acid excreted probably represents only a fraction of that formed within the organism ; for even after complete excision of the pancreas the body is able readily to oxidise /3-oxybutyric acid. This has been proved by the fact that after administration of fi-oxj- butyric acid to a diabetic dog only P^''*' the quantity given could be recovered from the urine. Although the greater part of the acid appears to undergo complete oxidation, some is also excreted in the form of aceto-acetic acid and acetone. A large number of different theories has been suggested to explain the role played by the pancreas in the utilisation of the glucose formed within the body, and the problem is to be regarded as still far from completely solved. The experimental evidence already adduced proves that the reason for the diabetes followingPANCREAS—PHYSIOLOGY 245 excision of the pancreas is not the absence of the pancreatic juice from the intestines; but that the diabetes must be referred to a disturb- ance of metaboHsm produced by the withdrawal of some influence exerted by the functionally active gland. Two views with regard to this influence naturally suggest themselves. The pancreas either renders innocuous some sub- stance whose retention within the body pro- duces the accumulation of sugar in the blood, or it is normally directly or indirectly concerned in promoting the utilisation of glucose within the body. In order to test the former hypothesis, Minkowski injected the blood of a diabetic dog into a healthy one. From the negative result obtained no conclusion could be drawn : for the healthy dog, possessing a functionally active pancreas, was presumably in a position to render innocuous the hypothetical toxic sub- stance present in the blood of the diabetic dog. Hedon attempted the solution of the same problem by a slightly different method. He injected the blood of a dog suffering from the severest type of diabetes into one from whom the pancreas had been partially removed, and whose urine, when the animal was maintained on a meat diet, contained only '67 per cent glucose. After the injection, no increase in the quantity of glucose excreted by the dog whose pancreas had been partially excised was observable. The latter experiment, although not absolutely decisive, still renders improbable the conclusion that the diabetes following excision of the pancreas is due to the retention of a toxic substance. Under the head of the second theory, that the diabetes occurring after excision of the pancreas is due to the withdrawal of some influence normally exerted by the pancreas on the metabolism of carbohydrates within the body, several hypotheses have been brought forward. The pancreas may prevent the ac- cumulation of glucose in the blood by either favouring its katabolism in the tissues or by promoting its conversion into glycogen by the liver. It may favour oxidation either by direct action on the glucose, rendering it more accessible to oxidation by the tissues, or by secreting some substance to be carried by the blood-stream to the tissues and utilised by them in the oxidation of glucose. Sufficient evidence is not available to test either of these possi- bilities. Some observers have recently en- deavoured to prove that pancreatic diabetes is due to the absence of a glycolytic ferment. Claude Bernard discovered that after death the quantity of sugar in the blood diminished more or less rapidly. Later observers showed that this diminution took place even when micro- organisms were excluded, and ascribed the action to a glycolytic enzyme whose activity was destroyed at 54° C. This enzyme has been shown to act as an oxidising agent, and is held by some observers to be a nucleoproteid. Lepine states that it is primarily derived from the pancreas, passes thence into the blood, and is carried by the leucocytes. Lepine states that it is present in the blood only in small amount after extirpation of the pancreas, and ascribed the resulting diabetes to the diminution of glycolytic ferment in the blood. Several ob- jections to this view have been raised. The most important of these is that of Minkowski, who showed that the quantity of the glycolytic enzyme is the same in the blood of diabetic as in that of normal dogs. The theory previously referred to—namely, that the pancreas acts by aiding the liver and other organs in the building up of glycogen from glucose—has more evidence in its favour. It has already been shown that the conversion of glucose into glycogen does not take place in a dog from which the pancreas has been removed. If this conversion be necessary for the further utilisation of glucose within the body, it is easy to understand that glucose must accvmmlate in the blood when the pancreas has been removed. For the formation of glycogen from Isevulose the influence of the pancreas is unnecessary. This difference in the behaviour of glucose and Isevulose is still quite inexplicable. Lastly, the question as to whether the function of the pancreas in cai-bohydrate meta- bolism is a specific one may be shortly con- sidered. Some observers have stated that ex- cision of the salivary glands of the dog also produces diabetes. The glycosuria so produced is, however, slight, transitory, and not constant, and is probably to be classed with the transitory glycosuria sometimes occurring after operations on the human subject. If the pancreas be excised along with the salivary glands, the diabetes that results is not more severe than that following excision of the pancreas alone. Similar statements hold good with regard to the glycosuria occasionally following excision of the thyroid {see also "Diabetes," vol. ii., and "Glycosuria," vol. iii.). Pancreas, Diseases of Introduction ...... 246 Anatomical Considerations . . . 246 Physiological Considerations. . . 246 Pathological Considerations— Relationship to Gall-Stones . . 247 Fat Necrosis . . . . .247 Haemorrhage in Pancreatic Diseases . 248 1. Pancreatitis— Acute 249 Subacute 250 Chronic . . . . . .251 2. Cysts of Pancreas .... 256 3. Malignant Diseases .... 258 4. Ulceration ..... 259 5. Pancreatic Lithiasis . . . 259246 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF 6. Injury to the Pancreas . . .260 7. Syphilis op the Pancreas . . 261 8. Tubercle of the Pancreas . . 261 See also Abdomen, Injuries of [Lesions of the Pancreas); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Pancreas) ; Ascites {Ca^i,satio7i, Diagnosis); Diabetes Mellitus {Pancreatic Diabetes); Glycosuria {Associated with Various Diseases); Hydatid Disease {Echinococci of Paricreas); Jaundice {Due to Different Causes); Liver, Diseases of {Acquired Deformities, Diagnosis); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Ali- mentary System); Mumps {Complications, Acute Pancreatitis); Ovaries, Diseases of {Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumour); Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis, General {Diagnosis, Acute Pancreatitis); Post-mortem Methods {Examination of the Body Cavities, Abdomen). Though diseases of the pancreas have been looked on as uncommon, it is only because of the position of the organ deeply at the back of the abdomen, and, therefore, of the difficulty in making a physical examination of it during life, unless considerably enlarged, that it has not received more attention clinically; and this want of attention has, unfortunately, until quite recently, also applied to the post-mortem room. A record of all the cases of pancreatic disease noticed in the post-mortem room of Guy's Hospital during fourteen years, from 1884 to 1897, shows that out of 6708 autopsies the pancreas was found diseased or injured in 142 ; that is, out of all cases dying in a large general hospital, 2 per cent at least had disease of the pancreas. This goes to prove the view expressed at the International Medical Congress held in Paris, that pancreatic diseases are far from being uncommon; and, fortunately, this re- cognition of the importance of the subject is likely to have more than a mere pathological interest; for although surgery can hold out little probability of being able to materially beneiit malignant disease, much can be done for the cure of both cystic and inflammatory affections. Anatomical Considerations.—The pancreas is a compound racemose gland, retroperitoneal in position, it being placed in front of the first lumbar vertebra with the head embraced by the concavity of the duodenal curve, and the tail reaching as far as the hihim of the spleen. It is of irregular shape, consisting of a body, head, and tail, the junction between the head and body being somewhat constricted, so as to form a neck. Between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum are the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries. The superior mesenteric artery and vein emerge from beneath the body of the pancreas and then pass over the transverse portion of the duodenum. There is sometimes a prolongation of the pancreas upwards from the head; this is called the lesser pancreas. The pancreas weighs about 3 ounces, and on section is of a pinkish-cream colour. It has in front of it the mesocolon and stomach, and it lies upon the aorta, vena cava, left crus of the diaphragm, and left supra- renal capsule. Its own capsule is of delicate areolar tissue, and sends processes between the lobules of the gland. The pancreatic duct (D. of Wirsung) begins near the tail and passes towards the right rather nearer the lower and posterior than the upper and anterior borders of the gland. It receives in its course branches from the different lobules which enter it at right angles. It is a thin white tube, which at its termination curves downwards in rela- tion with the common bile-duct to enter the descending portion of the duodenum into which it opens. When there is a lesser pancreas its duct joins the proper pancreatic duct before its termination. A small duct (D. of Santorini), collecting the secretion from the upper portion of the head of the gland and communicating irregularly with the duct of Wirsung, opens separately and directly into the duodenum about an inch and a half above the entrance of the ordinary duct. In 62 per cent of cases the common bile-duct passes through the head of the pancreas, while in 38 per cent it only grooves the back of the gland. This anatomical fact has an important bearing on the presence or absence of jaundice during an attack of in- terstitial pancreatitis. The pancreas receives its blood-supply from the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries on the right, and the pancreatica magna and pancreaticse parvse branches of the splenic artery on the left. The veins empty into the splenic and superior mesenteric. The lymphatic vessels pass to the lumbar lymphatic glands. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. Physiological Considerations.—The pan- creatic fluid contains four ferments : (1) A milk- curdling ferment; (2) steapsin, a ferment which serves to emulsify and split up fat into the fatty acids and glycerine ; (3) amylopsin, which serves to convert starchy matters into dextrine and grape sugar; and (4) trypsin, which con- verts albuminous and gelatinous substances into peptones. But besides secreting pancreatic fluid, the pancreas has an internal secretion formed by the islands of Langerhaus, necessary for the transformation of carbohydrates; and in the absence of this pancreatic extract from atrophy or other destructive disease of the pancreas, diabetes results. Pathological Considerations.—When it is borne in mind that the pancreas is a racemose gland with its various channels opening into a duct, which opens along with the common bile-duct into the second part of the duodenum, a channel usually containing septic organisms, and frequently liable to catarrh and other disorders, it is not surprising that inflanunation should frequently occur in it. Just as in the247 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF liver we may have acute and chronic catarrh of the ducts, infective and suppurative cholangitis, and inflammation of the interlobular tissue ending in cirrhosis, so in inflammation of the pancreas we may have acute and chronic catarrh, acute, subacute, and chronic pan- creatitis, abscess of the pancreas, and cirrhosis ending in atrophy. The essential and immediate cause of the various forms of pancreatitis is bacterial infec- tion, this having been positively proved both clinically in the human subject and experi- mentally in the lower animals; but as in inflammatory aff'ections of the liver and bile- ducts we look for extrinsic causes, so in pan- creatic diseases we find biliary and pancreatic lithiasis, injury, gastro-duodenal catarrh, ulcer and cancer of the stomach, pylorus, or duodenum, and zymotic diseases, such as typhoid fever and influenza, to be determining factors; though in some cases pancreatitis has come on suddenly in persons in robust health, and the determining cause has been beyond recognition. Though the infection may arise from the blood as in pyaemia, or by direct extension from the neighbouring tissues, as in ulcer of the stomach, yet the usvial channel is through the duct, as in the cases arising from gall-stones in the common duct, and from gasti'o-duodenal catarrh, examples of which I related in my lecture at the London Polyclinic in June 1900, and in my Hunterian Lectures at the R.C.S. in 1904. (See Lancet, March 19 and 26, and April 2, 1904.) The Relation hetiveen Gall-Stones and Pan- creatitis.—The association of the two conditions has been mentioned by several observers; the connection between the two was absolutely forced on my mind by the frequency with which I found inflammatory enlargement of the head of the pancreas when operating for gall-stones in the common duct, my views on this subject, supported by a number of cases observed during several years since 1892, having been brought forward at the Inter- national Congress held in Paris in 1900. In the British Medical Journal, No. 14, 1896, Dr. Kennan described a case of acute pancreatitis ending fatally on the second day in a woman of thirty-eight, and at the post-mortem a large number of gall-stones were found in the common duct, one being partially extruded into the duodenum. Korte {Deutsch. Chir. Stuttgart, 1898) notes that lesions of the pancreas are frequently associated with disease of the bile-ducts. Lancereaux (Traite des maladies du foie et du pancreas, 1898) mentions the possibility that a gall-stone impacted in the diverticulum of Vater may occlude the pancreatic duct, and produce conditions favouring the entrance of organisms into that duct. Dr. Opie, in the American Journal of Medical Science for January 1901, p. 27, relates cases—■ one of Dr. Osier's, and several from various sources—showing the relation between pan- creatic and gall-stone troubles. In many of my cases gall-stones were not found, but only old and firm adhesions with an antecedent history of paroxysmal attacks followed by jaundice, which afforded strong presumptive evidence that cholelithiasis had been present at some time. In some cases the adhesions had resulted from duodenal ulcer, which, with its associated catarrh, is a frequent cause of pan- creatic catarrh. A temporary occlusion of the common duct with the damming back of in- fective secretion or with injury to the ducts may set up a pancreatitis, which may itself then cause compression of the common bile-duct, and so lead to a perpetration of the trouble started in the first instance by an impacted gall-stone. Some years ago I raised the question as to catarrhal and interstitial pancreatitis affording the true key to many cases of acute and chronic catarrhal jaundice, and my operative experience has fully confirmed my original observations on the subject. In future, therefore, it will be necessary to recognise a cholangitic and a pan- creatic form of catarrhal jaundice. Fat necrosis is commonly found in association with acute, rarely with chronic, pancreatitis, and occasionally with some other diseases of the pancreas. The relation between the conditions has given rise to much speculation ; but the facts that fat necroses are not found in all acute pancreatic diseases, and that they have been frequently noted during abdominal operations for other diseases, and in autopsies where there was no suspicion of pancreatitis, appear to show that the condition giving rise to it is not essentially a pancreatitis as suggested by certain authors, though these facts do not disprove the theory, now an established fact, that fat necrosis is essentially due to interference with the discharge of pancreatic secretion, and so to an escape of pancreatic fluid into the tissues, whence it may be taken up by the lymphatics or blood-vessels. Flexner {Contributions to the Science of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Press, Baltimore, 1900) regards the fat necrosis as the effect of the fat-splitting ferment of the pancreatic fluid which has in some way escaped from the duct into the surrounding tissues. It is difficult at first sight to explain the patches of fat necrosis occurring at a dis- tance from the pancreas—for instance, in the pericardium, unless it be by absorption of the ferment, and its diffusion by means of the lymphatics, though it is easy to understand and undoubtedly does explain the disintegration of the fatty tissues immediately surrounding the pancreas, and extending by continuity first to adjoining, and then even to distant, parts in the abdomen and thorax. By fat necrosis is imder- stood a splitting up of the fat into fatty acids and glycerine ; the latter is absorbed, but the former, being insoluble, remain in the cells and248 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF unite with calcium salts, forming white patches of various sizes in the subperitoneal fat and in the omentum and mesentery. It was first described by Balser in 1882, but has been since investigated by Langerhans, Hildebrand and Dettiner, Milisch, Williams, and Opie. Experi- ments by Opie, who ligatured the pancreatic ducts in the cat, go to show that widespread fat necrosis may be expected to follow very rapidly. Hcemorrhage in Pancreatic Diseases.—It is well known that hsemorrhages into the pancreas may occur apart from injury, and that, although they may be recovered from, as shown by the remains of extravasated blood in the gland in persons dying from other diseases, yet such spontaneous hfemorrhages may lead to death from collapse either immediately or after some hours. Curiously, this may occur in persons appar- ently in good health, and without any premoni- tory signs on which a diagnosis can be based, the only symptoms at the time being those of collapse with dyspnoea and feeble pulse. It is also well recognised that a hsemorrhagic condition co-exists with cancer of the head of the pancreas. Some years ago I thought this to be altogether dependent on the cholaemia, until increased experience in operations on deeply jaundiced subjects has taught me that there is much less danger of serious haemorrhage in patients jaundiced from gall-stones than in those where the jaundice depends on pancreatic disease. In several cases of cancer of the pan- creas on which I have operated, the bleeding has been the immediate cause of death ; in one aged subject especially was this well marked after a cholecystotomy for the relief of jaundice. Death occurred on the third day from collapse, and at the autopsy there was found extensive effusion of blood away from the site of operation and behind the peritoneum, extending into the loins, around the kidneys, and into the cellular tissue beneath the diaphragm, the blood being in sufficient quantity to account for death ; and though the bleeding had evidently arisen from the pancreas, there was no manifest vascular legion to account for the hsemorrhage. In another case, sent to me in 1888 by Professor Clifford AUbutt, a cholecystotomy was followed by persistent oozing of blood from the anterior of the gall-bladder and from the stitch punctures, which resisted all then known remedial measures in the way of styptics, pressure, transfusion, etc., and proved fatal on the ninth day. In neither of these cases was there any peritonitis or other cause than the hsemorrhage to account for death. Before operating on these cases I now always administer chloride of calcium in 15 to 20 grain doses, thrice daily, from twenty-four to forty- eight hours previous to operation, and by enema in 30-grain doses afterwards, if it appears to be necessary. The use of simple sterilised horse serum, either subcutaneously in 10 c.c. doses or by mouth or rectum in 20 c.c. doses, appears also to be useful, but further trial is necessary before it can be recommended absolutely. These arguments are brought forward to show that there is some as yet ill-understood relation between pancreatic disease and serious hsemor- rhage ; but I cannot help thinking that it is a mistake to allow this fact to influence our views on the pathology of inflammation by adopting permanently the name hsemorrhagic pancreatitis in cases where there has been no bleeding, or no more hsemorrhage than occurs frequently in inflammation of other parenchymatous oi-gans; though it may be useful to retain the name for those cases of pancreatitis associated with well- marked interstitial hsemorrhage, and in which the disruption of the gland may actually be the immediate cause of the inflammation. I read a very interesting paper in the Boston City Hasp. Report for December 1900, by Dr. F. B. Lund, entitled " Acute Hsemorrhagic Pancreatitis and its Surgical Treatment: with a Report of Six Cases," yet on remarking on the second case, the author says, " This case is notable for the absence of pancreatic hsemor- rhage." In the fifth case there was the evacua- tion and drainage of a small abscess of the pancreas, and no evidence of hsemorrhage; and in the sixth case also there was no evidence what- ever of hsemorrhage. The title of the paper is surely a misnomer, yet other authors adopt the same nomenclature in the same indefinite manner. Dr. Flexner produced an inflammation of the pancreas associated with hsemorrhage within forty-eight hours, by injecting the bacillus pyo- cyaneus and the bacillus diphtherise into the pancreatic duct in animals {Contributions to the Science of Medicine, Baltimore, 1900, p. 743). Hildebrand (Ctntralhlatt fiir Chirurgie, 1895, Band xxii. p. 297) suggested that the hsemor- rhage in acute pancreatitis was due to trypsin. Hlava produced hsemorrhagic pancreatitis by in- jecting the bacillus diphtherise into the pancreas. It is well known that a diminution of lime salts in the blood leads to a tendency to hsemor- rhage, and that the hsemorrhage in pancreatic disease is dependent on this cause is highly probable. The only conclusions we can come to, after cai-efully considering the whole subject, are:— That in certain diseases of the pancreas there is a general hsemorrhagic tendency which is much intensified by the presence of jaundice, but that hsemorrhage may occur into the pancreas unassociated with inflammation, or with jaundice, or with a general ha^morrhagic tendency. That both acute and chronic pancreatitis can and do frequently occur without hajmorrhage, but that some cases of pancreatitis are asso- ciated with hsemorrhage and probably caused by it. That inflammation of the pancreas may be249 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF more conveniently and scientifically classified like inflammation of other organs, as acute, subacute, and chronic, and there is no reason to use the term hjemorrhagic pancreatitis except as a variety of acute pancreatitis in which the hsemorrhage precedes the inflammation. 1. Pancreatitis Symptoms.—It seems to me convenient to con- sider pancreatitis clinically under the headings of (1) Acute, often associated with haemorrhage and gangrene; (2) Subacute, often associated with suppuration; and (3) Chronic, associated with an increase of the interstitial tissue. The symptoms are very variable, and differ in the separate forms. A correct diagnosis can usually be arrived at by a careful study of the history, mode of onset, and combination of symptoms, assisted by an examination of the urine and faeces by a competent pathologist. Acute Pancreatitis.—This is usually ushered in by a sudden pain in the superior abdominal region, accompanied by faintness or collapse, and followed sooner or later by vomiting. It is almost constantly accompanied by constipation, so that it is quite usual for these cases to be mistaken for intestinal obstruction at first. The obstruction, however, is not absolute; flatus passes, and a large enema may secure an evacua- tion ; if the patient survive for several days, diarrhcea may supervene. The pain may be so severe as to produce syncope or collapse; and though the pain does not quite pass away, it has a tendency to be paroxysmal, and to be increased by movement; it is associated with well-marked tenderness just above tlie umbilicus, or between it and the ensiform cartilage. The pain is soon followed by distension in the superior abdominal region, which may become general, and usually does in the later stages, and by vomiting, first of food, then of bile. The vomiting may be severe, and each seizure may aggravate the pain, but at times vomiting may not be a prominent symptom. Slight icterus from associated catarrh of the bile-ducts is usually present, and deepens the longer the patient survives. The aspect is anxious and the face is pinched, resembling the facies of peritonitis, which in fact may be present. The pulse, which is rapid and small, is a better guide than the temperature, which may be normal, subnormal, irregular, or high. Delirium comes on in the later stages. The distension, pain, and tenderness prevent an exact examina- tion of the pancreas, which would otherwise be found enlarged. Death usually supervenes from the second to the fifth day from collapse, though in the less acute cases life may be pro- longed for days or weeks. Acute infective pancreatitis thus takes on the form of acute peritonitis starting in the superior abdominal region. If life be prolonged, the case comes under the category of subacute pancreatitis, and in that case the onset is usually less grave, though often equally sudden. Post-mortem Appearances. — Post-mortem ap- pearances are variable, but the following are fairly characteristic :—As a rule areas of fat necrosis will be observed in the omentum and in the fatty tissues in the neighbourhood of the pancreas, but they may be found all over the abdomen. The peritoneal cavity may contain blood-stained fluid. In the situation of the pancreas in the haemorrhagic form will be found a large, hard, dark, chocolate-coloured mass several times the size of the normal pancreas. On section of this, very little trace of normal pancreatic tissue may be discovered, the whole organ being infiltrated and distended with fluid. Dark brown or black necrotic areas can easily be seen, and sometimes in the gangrenous form the whole of the pancreas is converted into a black slough lying in the midst of dirty, grey, thin fluid, with very offensive odour. The adjoining tissues and organs will in these cases be found stained and dark-coloured. It is very common to find gall-stones in the common duct or in the gall-bladder, and in several cases a small calculus has been found impacted in the ampulla of Vater, occluding the opening into the duodenum and converting the common bile- duct and Wirsung's duct into a single canal. Opie first demonstrated this fact, and formed the theory that acute pancreatitis was due to the injection of the ducts of the pancreas by bile. Flexner has shown that the admixture of mucus with bile renders the bile less virulent. Treatment.—In acute infective pancreatitis treatment practically resolves itself into that of peritonitis commencing in the superior ab- dominal region. The pain at the outset is so acute as to necessitate the administration of I morphia, and the collapse will probably demand stimulants, which on account of the associated vomiting may have to be given by enema. In the early stages the symptoms are so indefinite that the indications for surgical treatment are often not clear. The simulation of intestinal obstruction will probably lead to efforts to j secure an evacuation of the bowels and relief to the distension. Just as in perforative or gan- grenous appendicitis an early evacuation of the ' septic matter is necessary to recovery, so in i this equally lethal affection an early exploration from the front through the middle-line above the umbilicus, or from behind through the ! left costo-vertebral angle, is demanded in order to evacuate the septic material and adopt free drainage. The after-treatment will be chiefly directed to combating shock and keeping up the strength until the materies morhi, both local and general, can be thrown off". The treatment of acute pancreatitis by ab- dominal section and incision and drainage of the I infected area has been successful in a number250 PANCREAS DISEASES OF of cases, and is now the recognised form of treatment. Subacute Pancreatitis. — This may have a sudden onset, with acute pain and vomiting associated with constipation, but the collapse is not so marked and may even be absent; the upper abdominal region does not become so rapidly swollen, and vomiting is less severe and less prolonged. At other times the onset is more gradual, thoiigh the symptoms may be similar. Tenderness over the pancreas is well marked, and on account of the tympanites being less than in the acute form it may be possible to feel the swollen gland, especially under an anfesthetic. Constipation soon gives place to diarrhoea with the passage of pale bulky greasy motions, and pus or blood may be noticed in the stools, which have a very foetid odour. The pulse will be less rapid and less thready than in the ;icute form, and the temperature is more ir- regular. I have seen the temperature reaching 104° and 105° F., and yet the pulse to vary be- tween 90 and 110. The morning temperature may be normal, and the evening temperature high for several days or even weeks. Rigors may occur and may be repeated from time to time. The pain occurs in paroxysms, but there is also a constant dull pain at the epigastrium. The patient may lose the more urgent symptoms and appear to be really improving, but the loss of flesh and feebleness continue, and relapses usually occur, leaving the patient each time more and more feeble, until death supervenes from asthenia. Albuminuria is pretty constant; but glycosuria is rarely present, and lipuria is an uncommon symptom. As the disease is less intense than in the fulminating form, suppuration usually occurs. If an abscess develop, the pus may form a tumour projecting in the superior abdominal region, forming a tender swelling behind the stomach, or perhaps coming to the surface above or below that viscus ; or it may burrow into either loin, forming a peri-renal abscess, or, passing under the diaphragm, it may form a subphrenic abscess. Occasionally the pus may follow the psoas muscle and form a subperitoneal abscess in the iliac region, or even passing over the brim of the pelvis it may collect in the left broad liga- ment. I have seen these terminations in cases either under my own care or under the care of colleagues, and I have operated several times for abscess of the pancreas. Sometimes the abscess bursts into the stomach and is vomited, or into the bowel and is voided per anum, after which diarrhoea may continue, and pus may be seen from time to time as any fresh collection forms and bursts. I have seen both of these methods of evacuation of the pus. With the evacuation of the abscess relief occurs for a time, and the temperature improves; but relapses may occur, and a mild form of septicpemia may persist with a hectic temperature. Recovery may occur after a tedious and prolonged illness. Post-mortem Appearances. — In suppurative pancreatitis, which is for the most part sub- acute, there may be a diffuse infiltration of pus throughout the gland, the ducts being full of muco-pus, and suppuration being found in the gland along the course of the excretory channels, penetrating to the intercellular space, and form- ing separate collections of pus in a similar way to that which takes place in the liver in suppurative cholangitis. If the pancreatitis is limited to one or more regions of the gland, the pus may then collect and form an abscess of variable size composed of broken-down tissue with disintegrated fat and pus ; and it is not unusual in these cases to find hajmorrhage into the abscess cavity giving the pus a chocolate colour, though at times there may be an absence of blood, and the pus may then be laudable. There is usually peripancreatitis, and it is common to find effusion of a thin greyish fluid containing pus cells in the lesser peritoneal cavity. A localised abscess may project into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, and passing forward it may tend to point above the stomach. In other cases a leakage of pus may occur into the peritoneal cavity, producing peritonitis, at first of the lesser and later of the greater peri- toneal sac. If the abscess bursts behind the peritoneum it may burrow backwards and form a peri-renal abscess ; or passing farther in front of the psoas sheath it may either simulate an iliac abscess pointing above Poupart's ligament, or proceeding farther towards the pelvis it may form a pelvic abscess. In three cases I have known the pus to burst into the stomach and into the bowel. Treatment.—The subacute form of pancreatitis is much more amenable to treatment, as the indications are so much more definite, and there is more time for careful consideration; and though it has usually only been attacked when an abscess has formed, and is manifestly making its way to the surface, yet there is no reason why in some cases surgical treatment should not be adopted at an earlier stage. As in the acute condition, morphia may be required to relieve the paroxysmal pain, and stimulants and food by the rectum to relieve the collapse and support the strength. The distension, if present, may also demand attention, and may have to be relieved by lavage of the stomach and turpentine enemata, or by the administra- tion of calomel by the mouth. Calomel is also of benefit by acting as an intestinal antiseptic, for which purpose it may be given in small repeated doses, or in doses of 5 grains, followed by a saline aperient. As soon as the constipa- tion is relieved, diarrhoea is apt to supervene, when salol and bismuth, with small doses of opium, may be given. If surgical treatment is decided on, a median incision above thePANCREAS, DISEASES OF 251 umbilicus will enable the operator to palpate the pancreas and locate any incipient collection of pus, which, if practicable, should be evacuated by a posterior incision in the left or right costo- vertebral angle ; or failing that possibility, the collection of pus may be aspirated and the cavity opened and packed with gauze, which may be brought forward through a large rubber drainage-tube, which will in the course of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours establish a track isolated from the general peritoneal cavity. In one case I was able to do this, but the operation was undertaken at too late a stage to be successful; and though the patient lived two or three days afterwards, the evacuation of the pus seemed to make very little difference to the general septic condition previously ex- isting, and death occurred from increasing de- bility on the fourth day. The method adopted had, however, been successful from the point of view of drainage, and the track of the gauze and tube was isolated from the general peritoneal cavity. If a definite abscess form and approach the surface in front or in either loin, the treat- ment will be that of incision and drainage, as in the case of any other abdominal abscess. Two of my cases in which an abscess of the pancreas was drained through the common bile- duct recovered completely, and one recovered from the operation but died a few weeks later from debility. The strength must be main- tained by careful feeding and the judicious administration of stimulants. It will be neces- sary to keep a sharp lookout for further collec- tions of pus and for subphrenic abscess or em- pyema, which on recognition will need treatment. Chronic Pancreatitis. — Chronic pancreatitis, at first hypertrophic, but later cirrhotic, is usually considered to be a very rare disease, but experience has shown it to be a much more common affection than the acute or subacute forms, and some cases put down as malignant disease of the head of the pancreas and ter- minating fatally are undoubtedly cases of chronic interstitial pancreatitis. My reason for this belief is shown in the cases related below, selected out of many on which I have operated. My experience has resulted from my having operated on a large number of cases of jaundice depending on obstruction to the common bile-duct; the obstructive jaimdice, wasting, paroxysmal attacks of pain, and ague- like seizures having given rise to the suspicion of gall-stones, and the absence of relief by medical treatment having rendered surgical treatment necessary. My first case of this nature, which occurred in 1890, was well fourteen years later ; the second case, in 1891, occurred in a man of fifty, deeply jaundiced and supposed to be suffering from common duct cholelithiasis, but in which the obstruction was due to a swelling of the head of the pancreas, recovered after cholecystotomy and fully regained his health; the third case was a revelation to me, as the patient was extremely ill before the operation, which was in fact undertaken too late, and as there was the opportunity of a post-mortem examination, the absence of malig- nant disease or of other cause than the chronic pancreatitis and associated jaundice to account for the death was directly proved. This form of pancreatitis is quite distinct from the acute or subacute form, though I think it is probable that some of the latter cases end in chronic interstitial pancreatitis. It usually arises by extension of the inflammation from the pancreatic ducts to the intei'lobular tissues, and is generally dependent on gall-stones in the common duct, which lead to the entrance of organisms from the duodenum that multiply in the retained secretion both in the pancreatic and bile ducts, and so set up an infective cholangitis and pancreatitis. A merely tempo- rary block in the common duct may produce pancreatitis, and the infection once started may lead to swelling of the head of the pancreas, and thus to pressure on and partial occlusion of the common bile duct and Wirsung's duct, in this way accounting for the persistence of the symptoms after the obstruction has passed away and for the relief by drainage of the bile- ducts either by cholecystotomy or cholecyst- enterostomy, as in the cases referred to in my lecture at the London Polyclinic, July 1900. The disease may assume the different forms of interlobular and interacinar inflammation : the former is not associated with glycosuria except in the later stages, when the disease has involved the whole gland and has invaded the islands of Langerhans; the latter, " interacinar," is probably always associated with glycosuria. Pancreatic lithiasis, or gastric, pyloric, or duo- denal ulcer, as well as certain blood conditions, may also produce interstitial pancreatitis. Its course varies. The onset may be quite gradual and painless, or may be ushered in by a severe pain at the epigastrium, followed by jaundice resembling a gall-stone attack, and associated with nausea and vomiting, and per- haps followed by a feeling of chilliness, or even a rigor. The pain, however, is not over the gall-bladder, and does not pass round the right side to the subscapular region, but is central, and passes backwards to the midscapular region or round the left side, thus resembling stomach rather than gall-bladder pain. The tender spot is usually an inch above the umbilicus in the middle line, and not over the gall-bladder, as in cholelithiasis pure and simple. When once jaundice has come on, it tends to deepen with each attack, until it becomes continuous and chronic. The paroxysms of pain may be re- peated, more or less frequently ; or there may be no paroxysmal pain, merely a dull ache, deeply seated, burning and boi'ing in character. A swelling of the pancreas may sometimes bePANCREAS, DISEASES OF 252 made out; but as the recti are rigid because of the pain and tenderness in the epigastrium, it can usually only be discovered under anesthesia. Loss of flesh and strength are well-marked symptoms in all cases. Vomiting may in some cases be absent, but there are usually a want of appetite and flatulent dyspepsia, and always a sense of fulness and weight at the epigastrium for some time after food. Jaundice is not necessarily present at first, though it is usually present at some stage of the disease, and is often well marked ; this is especially the case in about 62 per cent of cases in which the common bile-duct passes through the head of the pancreas, whereas when the bile-duct is not embraced by the pancreas, as in 38 per cent of cases, jaundice is usually absent or only slight in degree. As was pointed out some years ago by Dr. Walker of Peterborough, the stools are white even when the pancreatic fluid alone is absent from the intestine. Diarrhoea is often present, and the stools are offensive and fatty. Albuminuria is common, and glycosui'ia may occur, but the latter is probably only present in cases where the whole gland is affected. Fever may be absent, but in some cases the temperature runs a hectic course, rising in the evening and falling in the morning. This is especially the case where ague-like paroxysms occur. These varieties probably depend on the character of the infection in the pancreatic and bile ducts, and also on the amount of obstruction present. Where jaundice is present the pulse may be abnormally slow ; and even when the temperature is raised the pulse-rate is not much elevated, though the character of the pulse may be poor. In the later stages, especially if the disease be associated with jaundice, hfemorrhages from the nose and the bowel, vomiting of blood, and petechise in the skin show marked blood degeneration, and death ensues from increasing weakness. In the more chronic cases, especially when there is contraction of the head of the pancreas, there will be found a tumour formed by the distended gall-bladder, just as there is in cancer of the head of the pancreas, for which disease chronic interstitial pancreatitis is then apt to be mistaken and a hopeless prognosis given. In such cases the gall-bladder will be found to be distended with mucus, the bile which first filled it having become gradually absorbed, the back- ward pressure having prevented fresh bile from entering the ducts. This may occur so gradually as to be painless, and then the gall-bladder is free from tenderness, which is seldom the case when the distension is due to gall-stones. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of chronic inter- stitial pancreatitis has to be made from gall- stones in the common duct, cancer of the head of the pancreas, cancer of the liver and bile- ducts, and chronic catarrh of the bile-ducts. From gall-stones the diagnosis is of no great importance, since the two diseases are often associated and the treatment is the same; nevertheless, it may be possible to make a diagnosis of gall-stones by the sequence of long antecedent history of spasms without jaundice, then l3y a severe attack of pain followed by jaundice, and after a time by recurring pains with increase of the icterus associated with ague-like attacks. The absence of tumour is more common in gall-stones than in chronic pancreatitis, though in the latter the gall-bladder may be found contracted at times. Although in pancreatitis there is usually less pain, at times the paroxysmal attacks may be equally as severe as in gall-stone seizures. The tenderness in the latter case, however, will be over the gall-bladder, and in the former at the middle line where the swollen gland can sometimes be felt, especially if the examination is made under ansesthesia; moreover, the radiating pain in gall-stones is towards the right, and in pan- creatitis towards the left or to the midscapular region. In cancer of the head of the pancreas the onset is usually gradual and painless, and the disease generally occurs later in life, usually after forty years of age. It is preceded by general failure of health, and when the jaundice supervenes it becomes absolute and unvarying, and is nearly always associated with a tumour of the gall-bladder, which generally attains a large size and shows no tenderness on manipula- tion. The liver enlarges from the biliary stasis, but there are no nodules to be felt. In some cases of cancer of the head of the pancreas a hard nodular tumour may be found on the inner side of the distended gall-bladder. Extremely rapid loss of weight and strength with increasing ansemia, but without ague-like seizures, are very characteristic, and it is common for there to bo an absence of fever with a slow, feeble pulse, and later, ascites with oedema of the lower limbs. Cancer of the head of the pancreas may, however, be associated with infective cholangitis, when there will be ague-like attacks and continued fever. Cancer of the common bile-duct is rare, but when present may resemble, and is usually associated with, gall-stones. In cancer of the liver, the irregular enlargement, the nodular feel, the rapid deterioration of health, the less intense jaundice, and the absence of fever and paroxysmal pains will usually en- able a diagnosis to be made. Chronic catarrhal jaundice is usually due to interstitial pancreatitis, but if it be really catarrhal cholangitis there is an absence of symptoms, except jaundice and some loss of flesh. The entire absence of pain and fever with the relief by treatment usually gives rise to little difficulty in establishing a diagnosis. In some cases of cancer associated with interstitial panci-eatitis a diagnosis will only be made by an exploratory operation ; then the enlargement of the pancreas can be readily felt, or if the tumour be small the head of the253 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF pancreas may be found to be hard and perhaps nodular like scirrhus cancer. If ascites be present the tumour will probably be malignant. The lymphatic glands in the lesser omentum may be enlarged in both cancer and chronic pancreatitis ; but in the latter they will be dis- crete and soft, in the former hard and perhaps infiltrating. Adhesions are usually associated with chronic pancreatitis, but are generally absent in cancer. Very great assistance in diagnosis may be obtained by a careful pathological investigation of the urine and faeces. From the urine, by means of the phenylhydrazine test, certain crystals dissolving in dikite sulphuric acid in a few seconds can be obtained in cases of inflam- mation of the pancreas (Cammidge's reaction), and, microscopicall}', calcium oxalate crystals can usually be found in abundance. The faeces not only show an abnormal pro- portion of fat, but it is in the form of neutral fat. Muscle fibres and other remnants of undigested food are also found. The fseces are bulky, pale in colour, at times even quite white and yield an acid reaction. For a full descrip- tion of the importance of these and other tests, and the method of carrying them out, reference may be made to Diseases of the Pancreas, by Mayo Robson and P. J. Cammidge (Saunders and Co., 1907). Illustrative Cases of Chronic Pancreatitis Chronic Pancreatitis ; Cholecystotomy ; Cure.— A man, aged forty-five years, was sent to me on October 25, 1898, by Dr. J. B. Berry, of Keighley. The patient was very deeply jaundiced, and told me that he had lost a stone in weight since the onset of his illness five weeks before. He gave the history of having had attacks of pain referred to the region of the gall-bladder nine years previously, but they were unaccompanied by jaundice, and passed off after prolonged treatment. From that time onward he had been free from attacks of pain up to the onset of the present illness five weeks before, when he was suddenly seized with severe pain at the pit of the stomach and became jaundiced. The pain had recurred daily, and had been so severe as to necessitate his taking morphia. Dr. Berry noticed a swelling in the region of the gall- bladder a fortnight after the onset of his illness, and there was all along well-marked tenderness at the epigastrium, with gradually increasing enlargement of the liver. The patient's general health rapidly failed, and the loss of flesh was well marked. When I saw him he looked pinched and ill, he was very deeply jaundiced, and the urine was loaded with lithates, but con- tained neither albumin nor sugar. There were well-marked tenderness at the epigastrium, and a smooth tumour, which was not very tender, in the gall-bladder region ; the liver was enlarged, and the edge was smooth, and could easily be felt an inch below the costal margin. A diagnosis of gall-stones in the common bile-duct was made, and the patient was admitted into the Leeds General Infirmary. The operation was performed on Septemper 27, 1898. On opening the abdomen numerous adhesions between the gall-bladder and liver and the pylorus, colon, omentum, and duodenum were found. The gall-bladder was slightly distended, but no gall- stones were felt either in it or in the cystic or common duct. There was, however, a hard nodular swelling of the head of the pancreas which at the time was thought to be malignant. In order to give relief the adhesions were de- tached, and the gall-bladder was drained by cholecystotomy. On October 28, I wrote to Dr. Berry telling him that I feared the disease of the pancreas might be malignant, but there was a possibility of its being a chronic pan- creatitis. On November 5, I wrote a letter to this effect: "I am pleased to be able to tell you that your patient has improved very much, and the jaundice has nearly disappeared. I hope, therefore, that the tumour of the head of the pancreas may have been inflammatory and not malignant. At the time of operation it occurred to me that it was not quite hard enough for a malignant tumour, but under the circumstances I felt it my duty to give you my suspicions." From that time onwards recovery was uninterrupted, and the patient left the hospital with the wound closed within the month. In December 1899, the patient, at the kind suggestion of Dr. Berry, called to report himself to me. He looked perfectly healthy, and had gained over a stone in weight since his return home. He had neither pain nor tenderness, and he said that he felt as well as if he had never ailed anything. The scar was firm, the liver was normal, and there was not the slightest tenderness in the gall-bladder region. Chronic Pancreatitis \ Cholecystotomy; Cii/re. —The patient, a man aged forty-five, residing at Pickering, was brought on March 19, 1898, to see me by Mr. G. V. Robertson, of Pickering, the history being that he had been well up to twelve months before, when he began to have painful attacks at the pit of the stomach, end- ing in vomiting, but not followed by jaundice until an attack on January 1, 1898, since which time he had been deeply and continuously jaundiced. He had also from that time on- wards had ague-like attacks, and two days before seeing me he had had within twenty-four hours three of these seizures, each accompanied by pain. Within a twelvemonth he had lost 2 St. 8 lb. in weight. On examining him there was some swelling in the gall-bladder region, but no tenderness. The liver was a little en- larged, but the margins felt smooth. There was decided tenderness in the middle line just above the umbilicus, and on deep pressure the254 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF pain was considerable, and an indefinite fulness could be felt. The diagnosis of gall-stones in the common duct was made, and an operation was advised. The patient was operated on at a surgical home on March 30, when the gall- bladder was found to be slightly distended and surrounded by adhesions to the pylorus, duo- denum, colon, and omentum. No gall-stones could be discovered, but there was a swelling of the head and the first two inches of the pancreas, which, though nodular and irregular, was not very hard. This extended farther to the right than normal, so as to cover in the lower end of the common bile-duct. Chole- cystotomy was performed Within twenty-four hours of the operation nearly four pints of very offensive bile were discharged through the tube. A specimen was examined by the Clinical Research Association, and their report was as follows :—" The bile contains both staphylococci and streptococci, but no bacillus coli communis could be found either under the microscope or in the culture." Feai'ing that the disease might be malignant, and the patient being so extremely weak and ill, I gave a poor prognosis ; but in a few days I was able to write : " The patient is pi'Ogressing very satisfactorily, though he is still profoundly weak. Bile has appeared in the motions, so that the obstruction is evidently overcome. The bowels have been moved naturally, and the patient is less deeply jaundiced and looking better generally." On April 5, I was able to report that he was taking food well, and that bile was passing freely in the motions. He had had no recur- rence of the shivering attacks. The drainage was continued for fourteen days. On the 20th the patient returned home. The urine was then free from bile, and the motions were assuming a natural colour ; he was taking food well, gaining flesh, and looking better generally. From that time onward his progress to recovery was extremely rapid. A report 1 had of his condition from Mr. Robertson a few months later said that he was perfectly well in every respect, and that he had fully regained his lost weight. I heard of this patient five years after operation and he was still in perfectly good health. A man aged twenty-five years was seen with Dr. Stanley Smith on January 11, 1905, on ac- count of deep jaundice with serious deterioration of health, accompanied by loss of weight and strength. He gave a history that he had been out big game shooting in Uganda and had had an attack of fever, from which he made a good recovery, returning home in September of the previous year in fairly good health. In October he had what he took to be a return of the fever, the attack being ushered in by a rigor and followed within a few days by jaundice, which gradually deepened, but he had absolutely no pain in the abdomen or elsewhere. He lost his appetite forthwith and speedily began to lose flesh, so that when 1 saw him his weight was less by a stone than on his return home. There had been neither sickness nor vomiting and no more rigors. His pulse had been very slow (from 40 to 50) and the temperature subnormal. These symptoms continued up to the time of my seeing him, when I found him suffering from deep, almost black, jaundice and from anaemia. The liver reached well below the costal margin, almost to the iimbilicus, but the spleen could not be felt. A little tenderness was elicited an inch above the umbilicus and half an inch to the right of the middle line, where I thought I could feel a slight fulness, but this was in- definite. No dilatation of the stomach could be felt, and beyond the jaundice with the pale motions and dark urine no other physical signs could be elicited. The motions were bulky, but not frequent, and there was no tendency to diarrhoea. The tongue was somewhat coated. Chronic pancreatitis was suspected, and the uriue and fseces were sent to Dr. P. J. Cammidge for examination, the following being his report:— Urine. — Reaction, acid. Specific gravity, 1014. Albumin, nil; some nucleoproteid. Dextrose, nil. Maltose, nil. Glycuronic acid, nil. Indican, marked reaction. Ferric chloride reaction, negative. Bile pigment, much. Microscopically, a few bile-stained epithelial cells. Pancreatic reaction: "A," many fine crystals, soluble in 33 per cent sulphuric acid in one-half to three-quarters of a minute ; " B," do. do. FcBces. — Reaction, alkaline. Stercobilin, traces. Microscopically, crowds of fat globules, many fatty acid crystals, much vegetable tissue, some partially digested muscle fibre, epithelial cells, and granular debris. Total fat, 56*8 per cent; neutral fat, 29'5 per cent; fatty acids, 27'3 per cent. These results indicate a pancreatic lesion of an inflammatory nature. The character of the crystals obtained from the urine a,nd the relation of the " A " and " B " reactions suggest that, while the condition is probably of some standing, there is at present active inflammation of the gland. The large amount of bile pigment in the urine and its almost complete absence from the faeces, together with the high percentage of fat and the presence of muscle fibre in the latter, point to an obstruction of the common duct as the probable cause of the condition. The considerable reaction for indican given by the urine suggests that there is some catarrh of the upper part of the intestine. As medical treatment with rest in bed and care in diet had been thoroughly tried without any benefit, an operation was advised. This was performed at a nursing home on Janu- ary 16. On opening the abdomen by a verti-255 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF cal incision through the centre of the right rectus a little ascitic fluid, deeply bile-stained, escaped. The liver was found to be enlarged nearly to the umbilicus. It was dark and mottled, and showed evidences of cirrhosis, ap- parently due to biliary stagnation. The gall- bladder was thickened but not greatly distended, though it had evidently been inflamed, as ad- hesions were found between it and the cystic and common ducts and the neighbouring vis- cera, stomach, duodenum, and colon. The foramen of Winslow was obliterated by ad- hesions. The head of the pancreas was much enlarged and widened in area so that it extended some distance up the side of the common duct, which it enveloped. A hard nodule could be felt in the head of the pancreas, which hardness could be traced into the wall of the duodenum, and which faded off' into the body of the pan- creas, the body and tail of the organ being apparently of almost normal consistency. Ad- joining the portion of the pancreas, which was stony hard, could be seen a number of lobules of the pancreas, which were firmer than normal and very definitely outlined, a condition which I had seen in a number of cases of chronic inter- stitial pancreatitis on which I had previously operated. The localised hardness raised the question as to whether there might be a growth of the papilla extending into the duodenum, or whether there might possibly be a pancreatic calculus impacted in the duct. I therefore felt it desirable thoroughly to explore the pancreas, and to this end the visceral peritoneum was incised over the duodenum and stripped from the pancreas. An incision was made into the indurated area and a portion of the hardened mass was removed. Although very hard, it did not cut like cartilage, and had not the appear- ance of a malignant growth. No calculus could be found. The incision in the pancreas was then closed by several cat-gut sutures and the peritoneum replaced. The duodenum was then opened in the centre of the descending portion, when a hard nodule was felt on the inner side of the papilla, and this proved to be continuous with the stony hard lump in the head of the pancreas. I suspected that it was an accessory pancreas in the wall of the duodenum. It was not ulcerated, and did not give me the impres- sion of being malignant. The common bile- duct was clearly compressed by the hardened head of the pancreas, and in order to establish drainage of the infected bile the only desirable course seemed to be that of performing a chole- cyst-enterostomy. The opening made for ex- ploration into the duodenum was therefore united to one made in the fundus of the gall- bladder by means of a Murphy button, and the abdomen was closed without drainage. The operation was unaccompanied by haemorrhage, as chloride of calcium had been given in 20-grain doses thrice daily for three days before operation. and the drug was continued subsequently to operation in 30-grain doses in the nutrient in- jections for a few days. The after progress was very satisfactory; the wound healed entirely by first intention, and the jaundice began to diminish visibly within two days of operation. His bowels were moved on the fourth day after a dose of calomel, the motions showing the presence of bile. His appetite rapidly returned, and after the button had passed on the tenth day he was allowed to take food freely, his appetite being very keen. At first the motions were bulky, frequent, and offensive, evidently due to the passage of undigested milk. Pan- kreon tablets were therefore given after each meal, with the result that the food was better digested and the motions were diminished in number. Subsequent History.—When seen three months later the patient had gained three stones in weight, had lost his jaundice, and was well in every respect. When heard of two years later he was in perfect health. These cases are given as characteristic examples out of over 100 that I have operated on for this disease. Treatment.—Before considering either medical or surgical treatment of pancreatic catarrh or of interstitial pancreatitis, I should like to urge the importance of preventive treatment by at- tention to the causes, some of which, such as gall-stones, are removable by operation in the early stages with a very small risk, not more than 1 per cent in skilled hands; again, duo- denal catarrh as a cause of pancreatic catarrh and of interstitial pancreatitis is remediable by medical treatment; and duodenal ulcer, another cause, if not remedied by careful and thorough general treatment, can be cured by gastro- enterostomy with a very small risk, as shown by the results in my last series of 100 cases of gastro-enterostomy for gastric and duodenal ulcer, with a mortality of 1 per cent. If, after a fair trial of general treatment, not too long- continued, the symptoms persist, and the signs of failure in pancreatic digestion and metabolism are manifesting themselves, the question of sur- gical treatment should be seriously considered, especially when the disease is associated with jaundice, for the condition is one that, if not relieved eai'ly, will certainly lead to serious degeneration both of the liver and pancreas, and become dangerous to life in several ways. Rational treatment should aim at the cause, whether that be gall-stones, pancreatic calculi, duodenal catarrh, duodenal or gastric ulcer, alcoholism or syphilis. In operating for chronic pancreatitis when medical treatment has failed to relieve, the surgeon must be prepared to do a thorough operation, so as to expose the whole length of the common bile-duct as well as the head of the pancreas. He will then be able to remove the256 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF cause should it prove to be a gall-stone or a pancreatic calculus, or any other removable condition. In the absence of some obvious re- movable cause, it is advisable to secure efficient drainage of the infected bile and pancreatic ducts, either by cholecystotomy or cholecyst- enterostomy, preferably the latter. When the pancreatic disease is dependent on duodenal catarrh associated with ulcer of the duodenum, it may be advisable, at the same time that the bile passages are drained, to perform also a gastro-enterostomy in order to cure the original cause of the disease. Experience has taught that if the cause can be removed at an early stage, an absolute cure is possible; and though complete restoration of the damaged gland in more advanced cases cannot always be promised, yet an arrest of the morbid process may be looked for, and the remaining portion of the pancreas will be able to carry on the metabolic, even if incompletely the digestive, functions of the gland. Results.—In considering the after results of the surgical treatment of the class of cases under consideration, it is necessary to give both the immediate risks of operation and the ultimate issue of those cases that recovered. To this end letters were addressed to the friends or medical attendants of all my patients who had not recently been heard of. Of 102 operations undertaken in patients where chronic pancreatic trouble constituted the chief disease, or where it formed a serious complication of other diseases, 96*1 per cent of cases were followed by recovery, giving a mortality of 3'9 per cent. Of the four cases that died, one was a cholecystotomy undertaken in a patient very deeply jaundiced, and reduced to the last stage of exhaustion before a surgical opinion was sought, and where at autopsy a cirrhotic condition of the head of the pancreas was found. The second was a cholecyst-enter- ostomy undertaken in a deeply jaundiced patient in the presence of extensive adhesions, which, on account of the feeble condition of the subject, seemed too formidable to deal with. In this case a necropsy revealed a calculus in the pancreatic portion of the common bile-duct, occluding the opening of the pancreatic duct, which would have been discovered had the patient's condition permitted a thorough ex- ploration. A third, in a very feeble patient operated on away from home, extremely jaun- diced, and suffering from repeated rigors. Drainage was imperfectly carried out, and she died of cholpemia two weeks later. And a fourth was a choledochotomy in an aged feeble man, who died of heart failure, accelerated by intes- tinal h.Tsmorrhage, in the third week after opera- tion, when the wound had healed. In the 55 cases of catarrhal interstitial pan- creatitis, where gall-stones were found obstruct- ing the pancreatic portion of the common duct. choledochotomy was performed in 42, cholecys- totomy in 9, and cholecyst-enterostomy in 4. Of the 52 patients that recovered, 48 were living and well when last heard of; 1 is ap- parently well nine and a half years subsequent to operation, though sugar has recently been found in his urine; 1 died from cirrhosis of liver and ascites a year after, it being present and far advanced at the time of operation. Another has since died of acute bronchitis, and another from some non-specified ailment. In one case where the cause was pancreatic lithiasis, where calculi were removed both from Wirsung's and Santorini's ducts, the patient is now in very good health. In 46 cases of interstitial pancreatitis without gall-stones or other removable cause, the bile- ducts, and thus indirectly the pancreatic ducts, were drained hi 19 cases by simple cholecys- totomy, in 17 by cholecyst-enterostomy, and in 5 by separation of adhesions and thoroughly freeing the ducts. Of the 45 patients that recovered, no reply to letters was received from 6, who were well some time after operation. The rest were in good health when last heard of, with the exception of one (not drained) who has developed glycosuria some years after operation, but is otherwise well; one who shows signs of permanent damage to the pancreas by the ordinary test; and one who has ansemia, suggestive of the pernicious type. Besides the 19 cholecystotomies were 5 where the pancreatitis was associated with duodenal ulcer, and in these cases a posterior gastro- enterostomy was performed at the same time, with good results in every case. It will thus be seen that in a very large percentage of cases the removal of the cause, together with drainage of the bile-ducts, or, in the absence of a removable cause, the simple drainage of the bile-ducts alone, is an operation that may be safely recommended in suitable cases that have failed to yield to general treatment. 2. Cysts op Pancreas The term pancreatic cyst has been applied rather loosely so as to include all cysts occur- ring in the neighbourhood of the pancreas as well as true cysts of the pancreas itself. As was pointed out by Mr. Jordan Lloyd {B.M.J., 1892), many of these so-called pancreatic cysts result from an accumulation of fluid in the lesser peritoneal sac, this being especially true of tumours in the neighbourhood of the pancreas following on injury. Cysts in the transverse mesocolon and in the omentum have also been frequently included under the term pancreatic cyst, so that it is impracticable to make a satisfactory study of the subject from many of the reported cases, or to rely on the accuracy of statistical evidence. Though cysts may develop independently in the interlobular tissues of the pancreas, true257 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF pancreatic cysts are probably nearly always retention cysts, the result of obstruction in the ducts due to calculi or to changes in the walls of the ducts, the result of catarrh or other forms of inflammation. Senn pointed out (Amer. Journ. of Med. Set., 1885) that a sudden complete obstruction of the pancreatic duct did not lead to cystic changes unless there was at the same time some disease of the gland itself. As in the kidney, so probably in the pancreas, a sudden obstruction will lead to atrophy, but a gradually increasing obstruction to hydro- nephrosis in the kidney, and to cyst in the pancreas. The relation of cysts of the pancreas to injury cannot be doubted, and though many of these cases are caused by effusion into the lesser peritoneal sac, some may be due to a lacera- tion of the pancreas without rupture of the capsule, and then to accumulation of secretion and blood, which rapidly increases until a cyst is formed. Hsemorrhagic cysts in the pancreas are prob- ably nearly always traumatic, the exceptions being few ; but pancreatic haemorrhages do un- doubtedly occur apart from injury in some unexplained way, perhaps due to reflex nerve influence, and a disruption of the soft pancre- atic tissues may result in the formation of a cyst. I have operated on a case of so-called false pancreatic cyst dependent on tubercular peri- tonitis, leading to effusion in the lesser peritoneal sac, this limited effusion being easily explained by the fact that two years previously the patient was apparently cured of tubercular peritonitis by suprapubic drainage, which led to the ob- literation of the greater peritoneal sac, so that when there was a recurrence of the disease effusion could only occur in the unobliterated lesser cavity, leading to a swelling in the superior abdominal region. I have also operated on a false pancreatic cyst due to traumatism, the injury being very slight and scarcely recognisable as an accident, namely, the sudden pressure of a knife-board on the epigastrium, caused by a slip of the foot when a butler was cleaning knives, leading him to slip forward, but not to fall against his board. At the operation a week later I found not only the lesser sac full of sanguineous fluid, but also the greater peritoneal cavity containing a quantity of the same fluid, which had passed through a small rent in the great omentum just below the stomach. Symptoms.—In some cases of true pancreatic cyst, colicky symptoms like gall-stone attacks have preceded the formation of the cyst for months or years, but in others there have been no premonitory symptoms beyond slight digestive disturbances, until the tumour has been noticed, and then the symptoms have VOL. VII been those due to pressure on the stomach, and shortness of breath due to interference with the descent of the diaphragm. Glycosuria and fat in the stools are quite exceptional symptoms, and when present are probably due to the whole of the pancreas being involved, which is unusual. Loss of flesh may occur as the result of interference with digestion, and pain may occur in attacks resembling cholelithiasis. The tumour if sessile is fixed, but if the attachment be not very broad the top of the tumour may have a range of motion of two or three inches, and will then descend with respira- tion ; it is situated behind the stomach, and on distending that organ with COg the dulness will, as a rule, be quite hidden. In one case on which I operated a large cyst of the body and tail of the pancreas extended well up under the left costal arch, and made the case resemble a cyst of the spleen. In another, the close apposition of the cyst to the left lobe of the liver, its moving with the liver on deep inspiration, the displacement of the stomach downwards, and the slow growth of the tumour, led to the suspicion of its being a cyst of the liver. If the tumour be at the tail of the pancreas it may project into the loin and resemble a renal cyst, but, as a rule, bimanual palpation enables the kidney to be made out separately. Tapping as a means of diagnosis or treatment should never be adopted, as it involves risk of perforation of viscera and extravasation, and is attended with more danger than exploratory incision. Pancreatic cysts may occur at any age. They have been noticed in infancy and in extreme old age, but they usually occur between twenty and forty. Treatment.—As regards treatment, pancreatic cysts present a direct antithesis to ovarian cysts, for in the latter drainage is disastrous, and removal the best treatment, whereas in the former removal is rarely justifiable, and drainage is usually curative. In only one case have I seen a pancreatic cyst that I felt could be safely removed, and in that case, the tumour being almost pedunculated, the removal was effected quite simply, and was followed by recovery. The directions in which a pancreatic cyst may reach the surface and by which it may be approached are :— (1) Through the gastro-hepatic omentum "above the stomach." (2) Through the gastro - colic omentum "below the stomach." (3) Through the mesocolon "below the colon." (4) Through the loin behind the peritoneum. In the cases I have operated on, a cyst was enucleated on one occasion, recovery following : 17PANCREAS, DISEASES OF 258 drainage was carried out in 10 cases of true cyst, with recovery in 9 : in 2 cases of pseudo- cyst drainage was performed, with recovery in one. I have been able to collect from all sources the report of 160 operations, with 140 recoveries. 3. Malignant Diseases of the Pancreas occur under the forms of both cancer and sarcoma, the former being much the more common ; according to Segie, in the proportion of 63-5 to 1. From the large number of cases of cancer of the pancreas that I have personally seen— considerably over 50—I should have thought it to be a fairly common disease ; but Dr. Hale White {Guy's Hosp. Rep., liv.) gives only 30 cases of primary cancer and 1 of sarcoma among the 142 cases of pancreatic disease observed during fourteen years among 6708 examinations in the post-mortem room of Guy's Hospital. The table also shows 11 cases of secondary growth, and 13 in which the pancreas was involved by extension of malignant disease from adjoining organs; so that, taking all the cases together, it represents about one death from malignant disease of the pancreas out of every 200 patients that died in Guy's Hospital during fourteen years. The disease, whether sarcoma or cancer, runs a very rapid course, and an analysis of the Guy's series of cases shows that in no instance was life prolonged for more than eight months from the first appearance of symptoms, some patients dying within three months, and the sarcoma case within two months of the onset of symptoms. Cancer of the pancreas is a disease of middle or advanced age. I have, however, seen it in a man of thirty-two as well as in one at seventy-five. It is, nevertheless, unusual to find cancer of the pancreas before forty. Sarcoma occurs earlier in life. In one case reported by Litten, the patient was only four years of age; a case of Dr. Goodhart's was twenty-eight. I operated on a man aged fifty- five for a large tumour presenting all the characters of a cyst of the pancreas, but on exploration it was found to be a soft sarcoma of extremely rapid growth, and the operation was therefore concluded as an exploration, which, if anything, appeared to benefit the patient for a time. Symptoms.—The symptoms of cancer of the pancreas differ according to its site and the direction in which it progresses. If the body or tail only be involved there will be an absence of jaundice, but a steady wasting, with obscure epigastric pain and depression. Pain is frequently entirely absent, and the only signs are a steady loss of flesh and strength, and ultimately the appearance of a tumour behind the stomach ; but at times the pain is severe and paroxysmal, then resembling gall- stones. The stools are pale and bulky and contain an excess of fat, which is chiefly neutral fat. Sugar in the urine is worth noting, as it is said to be present in about half the cases; but my experience is that glycosuria is not commonly present, and is, in fact, an exceptional symptom. Among the cases coming under my observa- tion I have found sugar present in three cases of cancer of the pancreas, but not in any of the acute conditions for which I have operated. A hard, rounded, or nodular tumour, fixed deeply in the abdomen, just above the umbilicus, not markedly tender to pressure, not moving on respiration, giving a sense of communicated pulsation on palpation, and a bruit on ausculta- tion, with stomach or bowel in front of it, and associated with rapid wasting, is likely to be a pancreatic tumour. The growth only occasionally attains large enough proportions to be visible through the abdominal wall, and it may be so small as to be beyond detection, except as giving an obscure sense of resistance. When the head of the pancreas is involved, jaundice comes on and persists; a tumour is then readily felt, but this is the gall-bladder distended with mucus, and the pancreas itself cannot then ordinarily be palpated. Persistent jaundice without pain, associated with tumour of the gall-bladder, is usually de- pendent on cancer of the head of the pancreas; and, in fact, whenever after forty there is chronic jaundice, associated with a distended gall-bladder, even with pain resembling gall- stone attacks, a suspicion of pancreatic cancer should be entertained. Pressure on or involvement of the portal vein leads in the later stages to ascites, as does pressure on the vena cava to dropsy of the legs, and on the splenic vein to enlargement of the spleen. The liver enlarges when the head of the pancreas is involved, owing to pressure on the common bile-duct and stagnation of bile in the liver. The lymphatic glands and the liver and stomach become involved in the later stages. Bleeding from the gums, nose, and bowel, with petechite in the skin, nearly always appear in cases where jaundice is present. Infective cholangitis, as shown by ague-like attacks, does occasionally occur in these cases, but much less frequently than when gall-stones are the cause of the obstruction in the bile-ducts. Diagnosis.—The course and symptoms just related render a diagnosis feasible ; but if in doubt with regard to the tiunour, inflation of the stomach or colon will usually enable the disease to be distinguished from pyloric, bowel, liver, or gall-bladder tumour. The presence of glycosuria and of fat in the stools afford valuable positive evidence, but their not being foundPANCREAS, is 110 proof of the absence of disease of the pancreas. In young subjects especially, but also in older patients, the symptoms of cancer of the pancreas are apt to be simulated by chronic interstitial pancreatitis; the surgeon should therefore not too hurriedly give up such cases as hopeless, and the diagnosis can nearly always be cleared up by attention to the clinical history, to the physical signs, and to digestive and metabolic symptoms. (See Diseases of Pancreas, Saunders & Co., 1907.) Treatment.—Though I have seen a consider- able number of cases of cancer of the pancreas, I have never yet found one where I considered excision feasible or worth a second thought; and although it is possible for a patient to live without the pancreas, as shown clinically and experimentally, I think it is scarcely likely that removal of cancer of this organ can ever be a frequent operation. The facts established by Minkowski's experi- ments on dogs, and Senn's classical experiments, reported in 1886, show that not only life, but good health is possible where the pancreas has atrophied, or the duct has become permanently occluded. There is therefore no physiological reason why partial extirpation of the pancreas should not be performed for cancer if it can be discovered in time. But although Bilroth successfully removed a cancer of the pancreas in 1884, and Rugge removed with success a tumour believed to be retroperitoneal sarcoma, but which proved to be a primary carcinoma of the pancreas, the cases are exceptions, and do not establish the wisdom of the procedure. Removal of the pancreas for primary cancer can be rarely a justifiable operation, unless it is taken at a very early stage, and unless the body or tail of the pancreas be the part affected; but under such circumstances the operation might be both feasible and justifiable. If, however, it is rarely possible to remove cancer affecting the head of the pancreas, some- thing may be done at times to relieve the jaundice that accompanies it, either by perform- ing cholecystotomy, or by establishing a com- munication between the gall-bladder and bowel by a cholecyst-enterostomy. I have operated on 16 cases of pancreatic cancer, and though the operations have as a rule been short and apparently favourable, the results have not been encouraging ; these cases at the best are not promising, and even if recovery occurs, life is prolonged only for a short time. M. Takayasu, of Osaka, Japan, collected 20 cases of cholecystotomy for cancer of the pan- creas all of which died shortly after operation, the longest survival being forty days, and 13 of cholecyst-enterostomy, all of which also only survived a short time. My own experience is more favourable; of 16 cases, 7 died soon after, and 9 recovered from operation and obtained DISEASES OF 259 relief from the jaundice. It seems to me that the only justification for operating is that there may have been an error in the diagnosis, and that the swelling of the head of the pancreas may be a chronic pancreatitis producing pres- sure on the bile-ducts, when an operation may be absolutely curative. Secondary malignant disease of the pancreas is not uncommonly found in both cancer and sarcoma, but in such cases other organs are also involved, and the pancreatic affection has patho- logical rather than clinical interest. The pancreas is frequently invaded by cancer owing to its proximity to other organs, such as the liver and stomach, the disease involving the pancreas by extension as the tumour increases ; but in this case also the interest is merely pathological. 4. Ulceration by Extension may give rise to pancreatitis ending in sloughing of the pancreas. In one case of this kind that I saw with Dr. Mercer of Bradford, in a man aged thirty-five, the abscess discharged into the stomach and led to vomiting of most offensive material, which appeared to be poisoning the patient, and made the atmosphere of the room almost too foetid to be borne by friends or nurses. I performed gastro-enterostomy, although the patient was extremely ill, in order to give the ulcer a chance to heal, and that the oftensive material might pass into the intestinal canal; the result was excellent, the patient making a good recovery, and being at the present time in excellent health. Ulceration of the pancreas through extension of chronic ulcer of the stomach is not in- frequently seen, and I have found specimens in several of the museums. On three occasions I have operated and found extensive invasion of the pancreas by an ulcer in the posterior wall of the stomach. Under these circumstances the operation of gastro- enterostomy in two of the cases gave immediate and complete relief, and led to permanent re- covery, the patients, both men of middle age, being now quite well. In the third case cancer had become grafted on the ulcer, and an attempt to remove the whole of the disease, though promising at first to be successful, ended in death the second week after operation. 5. Pancreatic Lithiasis.—Calculi in the pan- creas are certainly not common, as proved by post-mortem records, by the paucity of speci- mens in the museums, and by clinical experience. Only three examples were observed at Guy's Hospital among 6708 post-mortem examinations during fourteen years. M. Lancereaux, Journ. de medic, int., February 1, 1899, collected 40 cases, including one of his own; this is the largest number recorded, and probably includes all or nearly all the reported cases. Causes.—Sedentary habits and over-feeding260 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF are predisposing causes, but atheroma of arteries, gall-stones, and chronic rheumatism are fre- quently associated with calculi in the pancreas. Obstruction of the ducts by the pressure of a tumour may be an exciting cause. As stones in the pancreatic duct are usually associated with inflammation of the ducts or of the gland, it is highly probable that the true exciting cause is bacterial infection, as is now proved to be the chief cause of the formation of gall-stones. Pancreatic calculi are whitish, and composed almost exclusively of calcium carbonate and phosphates. They are spherical, ovoid, or cylindrical in shape, but may be irregular, granular on the surface and branching, taking the shape of the ducts, in which they may be found free, but in some cases they are fixed in the substance of the gland. They may be single or very numerous; as many as 300 have been found in one case. They vary in size from that of a millet-seed to that of a hazel-nut. There is a good example of multiple calculi in the pancreas in the Hunterian Museum, and in that specimen they are foimd in all parts of the gland; but the most common site is in the large duct, especially at the head of the gland. Symptoms and Signs.—Paroxysmal pains at the epigastrium resembling gall-stone attacks, but associated with tenderness over the gall- bladder, and generally unaccompanied by jaun- dice, are usually the first symptoms. When inflammation occurs the attacks may be asso- ciated with ague-like seizures resembling in- fective cholangitis. As the calculi pass they interfere with the flow of bile from the papilla, and jaundice may be expected to occur, further obscuring the diagnosis. The tenderness is in the middle line, and not just below the right costal margin, as in chole- lithiasis, and the reflected pain is midscapular, and not under the right scapula, as in gall- bladder pain. Glycosuria and fat in stools, rarely lipuria, may be present in advanced cases, but as these symptoms are dependent on pancreatic degenera- tion they are only found in advanced cases. Lancereaux found persistent diabetes in 12 out of his 40 collected cases. In one case recorded an epigastric tumour was felt; this was probably due to the formation of a cyst from obstruction of Wirsung's duct. Acute pancreatitis may result, with suppura- tion, htemorrhage, or even gangrene, but chronic interstitial pancreatitis followed by atrophy of the gland is more likely to follow. Diagnosis.—In my Hunterian Lectures on the pancreas at the R.C.S., I pointed out that by means of the Rontgen rays a diagnosis between gall-stones and pancreatic calculi can be effected, in that the latter are opaque to the X-rays while gall-stones do not obstruct their passage. As pancreatic calculi are always accompanied by chronic pancreatitis, the urine in such cases always responds to Cammidge's reaction. Prognosis.—Recovery after the passage of the concretion is possible, but when the calculi are multiple serious secondary changes in the pan- creas are usually present, and a chronic illness extending over months or years is probable, finally ending in diabetes. At any time acute pancreatitis may set in and produce a fatal termination. Treatment.—Relief of the pain by sedatives, regulation of the bowels by aperients, careful attention to diet and the treatment of symptoms as they arise, practically sum up all that can be done by medical treatment; but if the diagnosis of pancreatic calculus can be made, surgical treatment offers the best chance of cure or relief. A vertical incision through the right rectus enables the pancreas to be thoroughly explored; and if a stone be felt, it may be got at either by dividing the peritoneum, passing from the duodenum to the colon, and then directly cut down on, or by opening the duodenum and incising the papilla common both to the pan- creatic and common bile duct. If no calculus can be felt, but the paroxysmal character of the symptoms and swelling of the head of the pancreas lead to the suspicion of infection of the pancreatic ducts, a cholecys- totomy with long-continued drainage of the bile- ducts, or a cholecyst-enterostomy, may aftbrd relief also to the pancreas, as in the cases described under the head of Chronic Pancreatitis. In one case I operated on a patient, aged fifty- seven, and removed four pancreatic calculi—one from the duct of Santorini, two from Wirsung's duct through the duodenum, and one from the centre of the gland by direct incision; the patient was well four and a half years later. I can only find reports of four other operations for pancreatic calculi, of which two died. 6. Injury to the Pancreas.—Wounds of the pancreas generally entail speedy death, since from the deep situation of the organ such in- juries are usually complicated by serious damage to other organs as well as by profuse haemor- rhage from the pancreas itself. The pancreas may be contused or torn across, when if death does not rapidly occur as the result of the injury, the blood effused in the neighbourhood may tend to form a cyst, as in one case that I saw in which the lesser peritoneal cavity had become filled with sanguineous eff"usion. Lancereaux, in his work on the pancreas, described a case in which a bullet injured the pancreas, but here death appeared to be due to other injuries. In one case occurring at Guy's Hospital, the patient was struck by the shaft of a cart, which injured the great omentum and ruptured the head of the pancreas. The patient survived a week, and at the post-mortem examination there was found extensive fat necrosis.261 PANCREAS, DISEASES OF The rational treatment is to cleanse the wound, to ligature obvious bleeding points, and then to plug the cavity with iodoform gauze. The patient is usually suffering from such severe shock that any elaborate operation is out of the question. 7. Syphilis of the Pancreas.—Syphilis of the pancreas is much commoner as a congenital than as an acquired disease. In 1875, Birch-Hirschfeld described syphilitic disease of the pancreas in new-born children and infants, and Schlesinger (Virchow's Archiv, vol. cliv., December 20, 1898) has described six cases, in which death ensued in every instance. He quotes that in congenital syphilis the pancreas is affected less frequently than the spleen, liver, bones, and lungs, but oftener than tlie thymus, heart, intestine, and other viscera. The pan- creas may be attacked as early as the fifth month of uterine life. Peritoneal adhesions are commonly found around the pancreas. The head is always more affected than the tail, and on section it is abnormally firm so as to feel and cut like cartilage. The disease is thus really an interstitial diffuse pancreatitis. The inter- acinous tissue is much necrosed, and the vessels are affected with periarteritis and endarteritis. The ducts are but little affected except by the sclerotic changes of the tissues surrounding them. In congenital syphilis, gummata are exceptional, whereas in the acquired variety they are characteristic. 8. Tubercle of the Pancreas.—Pancreatic tuberculosis is extremely rare as a primary disease, though occasionally found in cases of general tuberculosis as well as in tubercular peritonitis. Tubercular disease of the pancreas may caseate and may break down into an abscess, which burrowing behind the peritoneum may tend to point in the loin or in the left iliac region. I have operated on a case of this kind in which the disease resembled a tubercular spinal abscess. Lancereaux describes two forms: one com- posed of large caseous masses, the other of granular infiltrating tuberculosis. He quotes Kudrewetzki, who found the pancreas affected with tubercle 15 times in 128 cases of tubercu- losis. Oser found even a greater proportion (44"4 per cent) of tubercular affections of the pancreas in tubercular children. He also describes one case in which a tubercular mass was excised from the pancreas. Tubercular disease of the pancreas is of interest from a pathological rather than from a clinical point of view. Pancreatic Solution.—A solution of the fresh pancreas of the pig, containing its active digestive principle (trypsin). See Physi- ology, Food and Digestion {Intestinal Digestion, Pancreatic Secretion). It is used, along with sodium bicarbonate, for the peptonising of milk. Pancreatin. — Pancreatic extract, or the active principle (proteid) of the pancreatic secretion. Pancreatitis.—inflammation of thepan- creas. See Pancreas, Diseases of (Pancreatitis). Pandemic.—General or universal, as used in speaking of a widely prevalent disease, in opposition to epidemic or limited in its extent (Gr. Tra?, all, Br]fji.os, people). Pander's Layer.—The splanchnopleure layer of the mesoblast in which blood-vessels are formed, and in which yellow patches of hsemoglobin - containing corpuscles (Pander's Islands) appear. Pang'enesiS. — A theory of heredity advanced by Darwin according to which gem- mules, or minute particles from the various structures of the body, pass to the testicles or ovaries to enter into the constitution of the germ-cells ; in this way, it is supposed, the new organism is able to show hereditary characters of all kinds, for it contains these representative gemmules. See Heredity (Physical Basis of Inheritance). Panhysterectomy.—The total ex- tirpation of the uterus (body and cervix). See Uterus, Malignant Tumours (Hysterectomy). Panhystero-Colpectomy.—/See Uterus, Displacements of (Operative Treatment of Descent or Prolapsus). Panidrosis or Paniiidrosis.— General perspiration. Pani Ghao.—Ground or Water Itch; Sore Feet of Coolies. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Animal Parasites). Panmixia.—A sort of promiscuous re- production of all kinds of ancestral tendencies, due to the cessation of the action of natural selection in the case of little used or useless organs (Weismann). PanniCUlUS.—A layer or membrane, such as the layer of subcutaneous fat (panniculus adiposus), or of muscle (2Mnnictdus carnosus) represented in man by the platysma. Pan n US.—A vascular condition of the cornea, or vascular keratitis. See Cornea (Phlyctenular Ulcer); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Trachoma, Sequelae). Panophobla.—A form of hypochon- driasis or melancholia characterised by cause- less fears or terror. Panophthalmitis. —Inflammation of the whole eyeball. See Choroid, Diseases of (Suppurative Choroiditis); Herpes (Ocular Complications).262 PANOPTIC STAINING Panoptic Staining.—A method of staining a section or blood-film with a solution containing several aniline dyes or other agents (triacid mixture) so as to colour the different parts. Panosteitis. — inflammation involving all the tissues of which a bone is composed. See Bone, Diseases of. Panotitis. — Inflammation involving all the structures of the ear. Pansphygmograph. — An instru- ment which records simultaneously the move- ments of the heart, the pulse, and the respiration. Pa.ntiCOSa. See Balneology {Spain); Mineral Waters (Muriated Saline). Pantophobia. /S'eePANOPHOBiA; Neur- asthenia (Si/mptomatolof/y). See also Rabies. Pan US.—A swelling or tumour, especially of a gland, e.g. panus inguinalis (a bubo). Papain.—From the unripe fruit of the Carica papaya, the papaw or melon-tree, a milky juice is obtained which contains a digestive ferment called papain ; this ferment has been used internally in dyspepsia (dose, 5 to 10 grains), and externally as an application to warts and epitheliomata, etc. See Enzymes {Papairi and Pajoayotin). Papaverina or Papaverine. See Alkaloids (Vegetable). Papaver Somniferum. See Opium. Papayotin.—A ferment found in juice of the papaw, having a digestive effect upon proteids. See Papain. Papilla.—A small, soft prominence, espe- cially a nipple-shaped one, e.g. the papillae of the tongue, of nerves, of the lachrymal duct, of the kidney, etc. Papillary.—Resembling or relating to papillae, e.g. the modified columnse carneae of the heart which form the papillary muscles of that organ. See Physiology, Circulation {Heart, Structure). Papillectonny.—Excision of one or more papillae, especially of the kidney. Papillitis.— Inflammation of the intra- ocular end of the optic nerve (or papilla). See Retina and Optic Nerve {Inflammation of the Optic Nerve) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Eye and its Appendages). Papilloma.—A warty growth of the skin or of a mucous surface, hard or soft, sessile or pedunculated, consisting of hypertrophied pupillaj covered by epithelium. See Ear, Ex- ternal, Diseases of {Stenosis of Meatus); Larynx, Benign Growths of (Varieties); Mam- mary Gland, Diseases of {Duct Papilloma); Mouth, Diseases op the {Gums, Papillo7na of); Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum {Benign Tumoxbrs of Nasal Fossce); Palate {Tumours); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Morbid Anatomy, New Growths). Papule.—A small, solid projection or eminence on the skin. See Eczema {Lesions); Syphilis {Secondary, Affections of the Skin). Paquelin Cautery. See Cautery (Thermocautery). Para-.—in compound words para- (Gr. Trapa, by the side of) means alongside of, be- yond, to one side, faulty, irregular, or wrong; e.g. jMracanthosis (morbid growth of the prickle- cell layer of the skin), paracyesis (ectopic gestation), parapoplexy (false apoplexy), para- trophy (disordered nutrition), etc. Para-Anaesthesia. — Anaesthesia of both sides of the body, especially of the lower limbs. Parabanic Acid.— A dibasic acid, C0.2(NH.C0), formed by the action of nitric acid on uric acid or alloxan; oxalyl carbamide or oxalyl urea. Parablast. — The nutritive (as dis- tinguished from the formative) yolk of a mero- blastic ovum; also, disease with anatomical alteration; also, the embryonic tissue from which blood-vessels, lymphatics, and other con- nective tissues are developed, a parablastoma being a tumour formed of such tissues. ParablepsiS.—False vision (Gr. irapa- fiXi-TTfLv, to see wrong); side vision. ParabUXine.—An alkaloid, C^^H^gNoO, contained in the bark of Buxus sempervirens. Parabulia.—An abnormal action of the will (Gr. TTtt/oa, irregular, and /SovXij, will); per- verted will. Paracasein. See Physiology, Food AND Digestion (Food, Milk). Paracentesis. See also Aspiration and Ascites.— This term is applied to the operation of tapping one of the serous cavities for fluid, or, more rarely, gas. The operation is most frequently done for the removal of fluid from the peritoneal or pleural cavities. It may be carried out by a quick process—the use of a large trocar and cannula, described under "Aspiration" in vol. i. ; when it is desirable to promote the very gradual escape of the fluid, a much finer trocar, cannula, and drainage-tube are employed (Southey's tubes). This latter process has the merits of simplicity,PARACENTESIS 263 it is less terrifying to the patient, and the tendency to syncope is reduced. Southey's apparatus consists of a very fine cannula, about two inches long, perforated laterally by minute openings, and surmounted by a small shield. Over this shield is passed one end of the rubber tube, the other end of which extends to the receiving basin under the patient's bed. It is then ready for use. The whole operation should be carried out with strict antiseptic precautions. After withdrawal of the needle the cannula is fixed in position by strapping, and may be kept in for twelve or twenty-four hours. The use of an abdominal bandage will be found helpful, and it is better to gradually tighten the binder, as the fluid escapes. A many-tailed bandage may be used. After with- drawal of the cannula a collodion dressing is applied. Speaking generally, Southey's tubes are distinctly preferable to the aspirator for cases of ascites. An important preliminary measure is to see that the bladder is empty. Pa,ra.Centra.l.—Situated at the side of a central part, e.g. the paracentral lobule of the brain which lies alongside the central fissure. Paracephal us.—The teratological type in which the head is deformed; the term is applied specially to that form of placental parasite or omphalo-angiopagous twin in which the head is present in a deformed state although the heart may be absent, and the limbs greatly malformed or wanting. Parachlorphenol. — A substitution product of phenol having the formula CgH^ClOH, and acting as an antiseptic. Paracholia.—Irregularity in the bile- secretion. Parachordal.—Situated at the side of the notochord, e.g. the parachordal cartilages. Parachroma.—A change in the colour of the skin, e.g. in chlorosis {parachroma chlorosis). Parachromatoblepsiaor Para- Chromatopsia.—Colour bUndness. See Colour Vision. ParachromatOSiS.—A skin disease or morbid state due to pigmentary changes in the skin, e.g. as the result of tattooing, in Addison's disease, in argyria, etc. Paracolon Bacillus. — A bacillus found in the blood in a disease resembling typhoid fever. P£iraCOlpitiS. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding and at the sides of the vagina. Paracope.—The delirium of fever. ParaCOtO.—False coto bark, a remedy for diarrhoea, which contains paracotoin, Paracousia or Paracusis.—Dis- ordered hearing; auditory illusions. See Eak, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease {Hypertrophic Catarrh, Symptoms and Signs). Paracusis WiliSSii.-—The symptom characterised by hearing better in a noise. Paracystitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue in the neighbourhood of the bladder. Paradenitis. — Inflammation around a lymphatic gland. Paradidymis.—Tubular relics of the Wolffian body in the male; the organ of Girald^.s. Paradoxical.—Exhibiting a contradic- tion with known laws, or hard to reconcile with these ; deviating from the normal and difficult of explanation, e.g. the paradoxical pulse or pupil. Paraduodenal Fossa.—A pouch of peritoneiun in the neighbourhood of the ascend- ing part of the third poi'tion of the duodenum. Parsesthesia.—Perverted or abnormal sensation, e.g. "pins and needles," numbness, tingling, formication, etc. See Alcoholic In- sanity {Clinical Types); Alcoholism {Sensory Va7-iations); Larynx, Neuroses of {Sensory Neuroses); Nose, Nasal Neuroses (Neuroses of Olfaction); Pharynx, Examination of {Neuroses of Sensation, Parwsthesia) ; Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Sensory, Subjective). Paraffin. See also Dermatitis Trau- matica et Venenata {Paraffin Rash); Toxi- cology {Petroleum and Paraffin Oil).—The paraffins may be arranged according to their consistency as follows—hard, soft (vaseline and similar bodies), vaseline oils, liquid paraffin, and petroleum spirit. Paraffinum Durum, or paraffin wax, is a colourless semi-transparent solid, in- soluble in water, slightly soluble in alcohol, and freely soluble in ether and chloroform. It is supplied with melting-points ranging between 100° and 145° F. For subcutaneous injection a melting-point of 110° to 115° F. is recom- mended. The paraffin is introduced in the fluid state after having been carefully sterilised, and is moulded in position as it cools and solidifies. It has been employed in this manner to improve the shape of the nose, to prevent prolapse of the rectum and of the uterus, to form a stump for an artificial eye, in the treatment of atrophic rhinitis, and even for the fashioning of an arti- ficial testicle. Repoi'ts as to the results obtained by this method are somewhat conflicting. Paraf- finum Molle, known as vaseline, is a white orPARAFFIN 264 yellow semi-solid substance which has no un- pleasant odour and does not become rancid. Preparation—Unguentum Paraffini, containing three parts of hard and seven of soft paraffin. Soft paraffin is hardly absorbed at all by the skin, and it is therefore not suitable as a vehicle for the administration of drugs by inunction. It is emollient and protective, and is a useful ointment basis for the surface application of the compounds of lead, mercury, zinc, etc. Vaseline Oil (Liquid Vaseline) is a semi-liquid mixture of paraffins used for the hypodermic injection of insoluble mercurials. Paraffi,nmn Liquidum is obtained from petroleum by distilling off the more volatile portions. It is used as a basis for the solution of menthol, cocaine, or other substances for laryngeal or nasal sprays. It is also known as paroleine. Petroleum Spirit is used for heating cauteries. The emulsion of petroleum with hypophosphites, employed in the treatment of phthisis, bronchitis, colitis, etc., is made from liquid paraffin and sodium and calcium hypophosphites, emulsified with gum acacia, tragacanth, and cinnamon oil. It is given in doses of 1-4 5. Pa.ra,flOCCUlUS.—The smaller and pos- terior part of the flocculus of the cerebellum. Pa.ra.fbrm.—Triformol, a polymer of formaldehyde, used as a disinfectant; it is a white substance which, when heated, is converted into formaldehyde vapour. Paragangline. — A proprietary pre- paration of the adrenal gland of the ox. Parag'eusia or Parag^eusis. — Perversion of the sense of taste. See Fifth Nerve, Affections of (Affections of Taste). Parag^lobulin. — A globulin found in certain fluids of the body, e.g. in blood serum ; fibrinoplastin or serum-globulin. See Larda- ceous Degeneration (Clinical Characters, Urine). Paraglobulinuria.—The presence of paraglobulin in the urine {vide s^tpra). ParagOmphOSiS. — Impaction of the foetal head in the maternal pelvis. Paragraphia.—An anomaly in the act of writing by which words are wrongly written, are transposed, or are replaced by meaningless associations of letters; a form of aphasia. Paraguay Tea.—Mate, prepared from the leaves of ilex /laraguayeyisis; it contains 0'5 per cent of caffeine. See Caffeina. Parahypnosis.—Abnormal sleep, such as is induced by hypnotism {q.v.) or is present in somnambulism. Parakeratosis.—A skin disease char- acterised by irregular development of the stratum corneum of the epidermis, e.g. para- keratosis variegata. See Lichen (Varieties). Parakinesis or Paracinesis.— Disordered motor function, due to disease of the motor centres or nerves. Paralalia. — Disturbance of the faculty of speech, temporary or permanent; the patient has the power of thought and of combining and forming ideas, but he cannot find the right words to express them or co-ordinate them when found. ParalampsiS.—An opacity of the cornea having a pearly lustre (Gr. Aa/ti/^cris, shining). Paraldehyde. See also Alcoholism (Sleeplessness, Treatment); Hypnotics ; MoR- phinomania and Allied Drug Habits (Paral- dehyde); Pharmacology (Hypnotics).—Obtained from aldehyde by the action of acids. It is a colourless liquid with an ethereal odour and a burning, followed by a cool, taste. It is soluble 1 in 10 of cold water, and freely in alcohol. It should be stored in the dark in a glass-stoppered bottle. It is a powerful hypnotic and nervous sedative, given in doses of |-2 3. It does not depress the heart, and has been recommended in insomnia in patients sufl'ering from cardiac disease, and in mania and melancholia. It has an abominable taste and odour, and should either be given in capsule or in solution with syrup and tincture of orange to cover the taste. It is very apt to disorder the stomach, and may produce an erythematous rash. It is not now employed so widely as it was a few years ago, but it is still selected by some physicians on account of its unpleasantness for patients who demand a sleeping draught although not really requiring one. ParaleprOSy.—An anomalous or modi- fied form of leprosy. Paralerema or Paraleresis.— Slight delirium, e.g. such as is met with in fever. Paralexia. — Inability to read correctly —words and syllables are transposed or substi- tuted ; a form of sensory aphasia. Paralgesia.—Disordered sense of pain, or (sometimes) diminished sensibility to pain. Paralgia.—A sensation akin to pain. Parallax.—Apparent displacement of an object looked at, due to change in the position of the observer or to his using first one and then the other eye; it is used in testing for opacities in the cornea, in the lens, or in the vitreous humour. Paralogia.—A difficulty in carrying on a train of consecutive or logical thinking.265 PARALYSIS Paralysis. Paralysis is a symptom, not a disease. The present section deals with the so-called system lesions of the cord, and other diseases of the grey and white matter. Tabes dorsalis is treated separately in a later volume. Allied disorders are considered in the section on " Muscles and Myasthenia Gravis" in vol. vi., and in the section on " Spinal Cord" in a later volume. A general index of the nervoiis system will be found in this volume, p. 33. Paralysis Introduction . . . . . .26-5 I. Spastic Paralysis . . . .268 1. Spastic Paraplegia . . . 268 (a) Introduction . . . .268 (6) Primary Lateral Sclerosis . 273 (c) Familial Spastic Paraplegia . 274 (d) Syphilitic Paraplegia of Erh . 274 2. Infantile Spastic Paralysis . 275 {a) Cerebral 275 (i.) Cerebral Diplegia . . 275 (ii.) Infantile Hemiplegia . . 280 (6) Spinal 284 3. Subacute Combined Degeneration OF THE Cord .... 285 II. Flaccid Paralysis .... 288 1. Family Periodic Paralysis . . 288 2. Landry's Paralysis . . .290 III. Paralysis with Atrophy of Muscles ..... 293 1. Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis . 293 2. Subacute Anterior Poliomyelitis 300 3. Chronic Spinal Muscular Atro- phy AND Bulbar Paralysis . 300 (a) Progressive Muscular Atrophy . 302 (b) Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis . 303 (c) Bulbar Paralysis . . . 303 (i.) Chronic Nuclear Paralysis . 304 (ii.) Other forms of Bulbar Paralysis- Acute .... 307 Chronic .... 308 (iii.) Pse'odo-hulbar Paralysis . 308 IV. Paralysis with Tremor or Ataxy . 310 1. Disseminated Sclerosis . . 310 2. Pseudo-Sclerosis . . . .317 3. Paralysis Agitans . . .318 4. Hereditary Ataxy (Friedreich's Disease) 321 V. Functional Paralysis . . . 324 See also Accommodation {Paralysis of); Alco- holic Insanity {Clinical Types) ; Alcoholism {Chronic, Variations, Motor Symptoms); Athe- tosis {Sympt07ns); Auditory Nerve and Laby- rinth {Toxic Paralysis of Auditory Nerve); Axilla {Injuries, Crutch-pressure Paralysis); Babinski's Sign ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of ; Brain, Affections of Blood- Vessels {Occlusion of Cerebral Vessels, Symptoms, etc.); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms); Brain, Cysts {Clinical Features); Brain, Cere- bellum, Affections OF {Motor Paralysis); Chorea {Diagnosis); Deformities {Arising from Cerebral and Spinal Paralysis); Deformities {Club Foot); Diaphragm, Diseases of {Paralysis); Diphtheria {Complications, Paralysis) ; Epilepsy {Symp- toms) ; Facial Nerve, Paralysis of ; Fifth Nerve, Affections of {Paralysis) ; General Paralysis ; Herpes {Complications, Motor Par- alysis) ; Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Diagnosis) ; Hypoglossal Nerve {Paralysis) ; Hysteria {Motor Disorders, Paralysis); Knee-Joint, Dis- eases OF {Tumours, Paralysis from); Labour, Accidental Complications {Injuries to the Foetus, Results) ; Larynx, Neuroses of {Paralysis of Vocal Cords); Meninges of the Cerebrum ( Vascular Disturbance, Meningeal HcemorrJiage); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-spinal {Symp- toms) ; Mental Deficiency (Varieties, Poren- cephalic, etc.); Muscles, Diseases of the {Vas- cular Disturbances); Nerves, Multiple Peri- pheral Neuritis {Symptoms, Sensory); Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Anosmia); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis); Oesophagus {Par- alysis) ; Osteo-Arthropathies (/« General Par- alysis, etc.); Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovariotomy, Complications, Paralysis); Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases {Obstetrical Paralysis in Foetus); Puerperium, Physiology {Bladder); Rickets {Diagnosis, Paraplegia); Senile In- sanity {Paralytic Dementia); Spina Bifida ( Varieties, Symptoms); Spinal Accessory Nerve {Lesions, Paralysis of Sterno-Mastoid, etc.); Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptoma- tology) ; Spine, Surgical Affections of {Lateral Curvature, Spinal Caries); Spine, Surgical Affections {Caisson Disease); Syringomyelia {Symptoms); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology); Teeth {Reflex Paralysis of Dental Origin); Toxi- cology {Lead-Poisoning, Paralysis); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symp)tomatology); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Nervous System). The term " paralysis" is that commonly em- ployed to denote loss of motor power, irrespective of the amount of the defect, though theterm"par- esis " is sometimes applied to the lesser degrees of impairment of movement, while "paralysis" is reserved for the more pronounced defects. The power of performing movements may be diminished or abolished in consequence of lesions of the sensori-motor region of the cortex of the brain, of any part of the motor path from this region to the pons, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord, of the nuclei of motor cranial nerves, of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, of the peripheral nerves, and even of the muscles themselves. In addition to which there may be definite paralysis without its being possible to discover structural changes in any of the parts that have just been enumerated. Paralysis may be acute or chronic, and thePARALYSIS 266 acute form may be of sudden or rapid onset, while the chronic form may be the legacy of a past acute affection, or its onset may have been gradual and its progress slow. In acute para- lysis of sudden or rapid onset, when death does not result in consequence of the attack, there is commonly some tendency to improvement after the maximum effect of the lesion has been reached, and even if recovery does not result, there is no tendency for the paralysis to pro- gress after it has become chronic. When it is of gradual onset and chronic from the onset, however, the tendency is for the paralysis to progress slowly but surely until a fatal termina- tion is reached. Paralysis of sudden or rapid onset may result from affections of the brain or spinal cord, as may pai'alysis that is chronic from the outset. When the peripheral nerves are affected the most usual form of paralysis is that of rapid onset, though notably in lesions of single nerves, the onset may be sudden, and in rare instances multiple affection of peripheral nerves is chronic from the outset. The almost invariable rule is that paralysis due to primary affection of the muscles is chronic in its onset and subsequent course. The seat of the lesion which causes the para- lysis determines certain distinguishing features in regard to its distribution. Thus, when the brain is affected the paralysis is usually limited to one-half of the body, including the face, trunk, and limbs, and the affection is then known as " hemiplegia "; but both sides of the body may be affected, including all four limbs, as is seen in cerebral " diplegia," or the para- lysis may be limited to the lower extremities, and is then known as " paraplegia," which is, however, distinctive of a lesion of the spinal cord rather than of the brain. Even a single limb may be paralysed (" monoplegia") as the result of a cerebral lesion. Although " para- plegia " is the form of paralyis most character- istic of an affection of the spinal cord, " mono- plegia " is also common. Both upper limbs may be affected while the lower limbs escape, and under rare circumstances the two limbs on the same side are involved, or even the upper limb on one side and the lower limb on the other. When lesions of the peripheral nerves cause paralysis, the loss of power may be limited to the anatomical distribution of one or more nerves ; but when there is a general affection of the peripheral nerves the paralysis is com- monly paraplegic in distribution, or all foiir limbs may be weak. Less frequently the upper extremities suffer, while the lower extremities escape. The cranial nerves are rarely affected except when the paralysis is due to certain causes, notably the poison of diphtheria. Para- lysis consequent on primary affection of the muscles usually involves all four limbs, especially their proximal segments, and the trunk ; but, except in one form, the face escapes. There are, however, some forms of paralysis in which the morbid process is not confined to one part of the nervous system, but attacks the brain, the spinal cord, and possibly also some peripheral nerves. The seat of the lesion also determines the character of the paralysis, which may be "spastic" or "flaccid" according to whether or not the muscles are in a state of spasm. Paralysis that is due to a cerebral lesion is usually spastic in type, and this is also the case when a lesion in the spinal cord is above the lumbar enlargement. There are, however, cases in which, with a complete transverse lesion above the lumbar enlargement, flaccid instead of spastic paralysis results. Flaccid paralysis also occurs when the lesion is in the anterior horns of the spinal cord. So, too, the paralysis that I'esults from lesions of peripheral nerves is of flaccid type, as is that due to primary affection of the muscles. The state of nutrition of the paralysed muscles also depends on the seat of the lesion. When the lesion is in the brain, or interrupts some part of the motor path between the sensori- motor cortex and the nuclei of the motor cranial nerves, or the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord, there is no notable atrophy of the para- lysed muscles ; but when there is an affection of the nuclei of the motor cranial nerves, or of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, the para- lysed muscles waste, a feature shared by all palsies due to lesions of peripheral nerves, or when there is primary affection of the muscles. Indeed, in the latter class of affection the degree of paralysis is proportional to the amount of atrophy of the muscles. Although lesions in some situations do not cause atrophy of the paralysed muscles, it is noteworthy that a lesion of the central nervous system in the young, irrespective of its precise seat, is followed by retarded development, so that when these patients reach adult life, the maximum development of the paralysed parts is considerably less than that of corresponding regions on the opposite side of the body. This defect is not limited to the muscles, but is shared by the bones and other structures, and is well seen in those that have been at- tacked by acute anterior poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis), and in the subjects of infantile hemiplegia. In cases of paralysis loss of motor power may be the only defect of movement, but in other cases this is associated with disoi'dered move- ments which are spontaneous, or which are only evoked by voluntary effort. Athetosis or " mobile spasm," choreiform movements, and tremors of various kinds, may follow upon paralysis of cerebral origin, and are notably seen in infantile hemiplegia. In such cases there is always some return of voluntary power, and the disordered movement is not noticed forPARALYSIS 267 some months after the onset of the paralysis. Disordered movement is also seen in association with paralysis in diseases such as chorea, in which affection there may be weakness in ad- dition to spontaneous movements; in dissemi- nated sclerosis, in which intention tremor is such a prominent feature ; in paralysis agitans, in which rhythmical tremor, commonly lessened or arrested by voluntary movement, accompanies the progressive weakness ; in general paralysis of the insane, in which tremor of the tongue, face, and hands on voluntary movement is one of the characteristic features of the disease ; and in the tremor that accompanies some forms of hysterical paralysis. So, too, in affections of the cerebellum the prominent symptom is inco- ordination of movement, but this may be ac- companied by motor weakness ; and in multiple peripheral neuritis, although motor paralysis is the chief feature, inco-ordination of movement may be added, and in some cases the latter symptom dominates the clinical picture. Various deformities may result in paralysed parts, where spasm may bring about the dis- tortion, or where they may be due to contracture and permanent shortening of muscles that happen to escape paralysis, or are less affected than their antagonists. Moreover, even when muscles are equally paralysed, posture may determine deformities by facilitating contracture of certain muscles, and thus some habitual position of a part may become permanent, unless altered by treatment. Accounts of various forms of paralysis have already appeared in this and previous volumes of the Dictionary and Encyclopwdia of Medicine; but a large number of important affections of the kind have yet to be dealt with, most of which will be described in this article. Table op the Spinal Segments Their Muscidar and Sensory Supply and Levels Spinal Segment. G 1 C 2 0 3 C 4 C 5 C 6 G 7 C 8 D 1 D 2-3 D 4 D 6 D 9 L 1 L 2 L3 Corre- sponding Spinous Process. C 1 C 2 G 6 C 7 D 1 D 2 D 4 D 6 D 10 D 11 Muscles supplied. Keflex. Small neck muscles Complexiis. Splenius Depressors of hyoid bone Sterno-mastoid Lev. ang. scap., scaleni. Diaphragm Spinati, deltoid, biceps, bra- chialis anticus, sup. longus, pectoralis major (clavicular head), serratus magnus Pectoralis major (pectoral head), subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi Triceps, flexors of wrist, ex- tensors of wrist Flexors of digits, extensors of digits Intrinsic muscles of the hand Dilators of the pupil Inter-costales (D 1 to D 11), erector spinte (C 3 to S 3) Abdominal muscles (D 6 to LI) Gremaster Ilio-psoas, adductors of hip. Sartorius Radius jerk Triceps jerk Pupil dilatation to shade Epigastric Abdominal Gremasteric Knee-jerk C 1 G 2 C 3 G 4 G 5 G 6 C 7 G 8 D 1 D 2-3 D 5 D 6 D 9 L 1 L 2 L 3 Sensory Distribution. Back of occiput Anterior and posterior triangles of neck from ear to clavicle and scapula Epaulette ou shoulder, thorax from clavicle to three inches below Deltoid region and outer border of arm narrowing to point just above ball of thumb (radial border) Strip down front and back of arm (inside G 5), radial border of hand, thumb, index and radial half of middle finger Strip down front and back of arm, contiguous halves of middle and ring lingers Strip down front and back of arm, inner half of ring finger, little finger, ulnar border of hand Post-axial border of forearm from three inches above elbow to pisi- form bone Post-axial border of forearm above D 1 Level of nipple Level of xiphisternal junction Level of umbilicus Level of Poupart's ligament Upper and outer side of thigh and over Scarpa's triangle All thigh except narrow vertical strip on post surface (S 2). Geas- ing about an inch above kneePARALYSIS 268 Table of the Spinal Segments—continued Spinal Segment, Cone- sponding Spinous Process Muscles supplied. Reflex. Sensory Distribution. L 4 T, fi S 1 S 2 S 3 S 4 D 12 Extensor quadriceps cruris. Abductors of hip Flexors of knee Calf muscles Glutei, peronei, ant. tibial muscles, intrinsic muscles of foot Perineal muscles Foot clonus Plantar reflex Anal reflex L 4 T f; Li 0 S 1 S 2 Knee except behind. Inner aspect of leg to ankle Outer aspect of leg, dorsum of foot Dorsal aspect of toes, instep, sole of foot, heel and two strips enclosing S 2 on back of calf reaching almost to knee Strip along back of lower extremity from two inches above heel to above middle of buttock Perinaeum, genitals, adductor region of thigh S 5 Cocc. L 1 Sacral region I. Spastic Paralysis Spastic Paraplegia.—The essential character- istic of this symptom-group, which may be pro- duced by the most varied pathological processes having their site in inany different parts of the central nervous system, is bilatei-ally distributed paralysis associated with increased muscular tone (rigidity). Muscle Tomis.—Every healthy muscle in the living state exists normally in a state of slight contraction or tonus. In slight degree this tonus is an expression of the life of the muscle apart from other influences : in much greater degree it is dependent upon the nerve-cells directly governing the muscles (lower motor neurons). This factor in muscle tonus is pro- duced reflexly. If attention be called to any part of the body, sensations coming from that part will reach consciousness. Such luifelt sensory stimuli are constantly impinging upon the spinal segments, and find their expression upon the motor side in a continuous outflow of energy distributed to the muscles and pro- ducing a condition of continuous slight con- traction—the spinal element of muscle tonus. From this reflex origin it is obvious that a lesion of the sensory nerve at any part of its course from the periphery to the spinal segment, or a lesion of the spinal segment itself, or a lesion of the motor nerve at any part of its course, will abolish the muscle tonus. In other words, muscle tone is dependent upon the integrity of the reflex arc. Further, the spinal segments themselves are presided over by higher parts of the nervous system which regulate the activity of the response of the spinal segment to incitations coming from the periphery. This higher mechanism has, on the one hand, an inhibitory influence upon the spinal segment, and, on the other hand, an augmentor influence. The inhibitor influence is cerebral in origin, and is distributed to the spinal segments by the fibres of the pyramidal tract. If this influence be removed, as in a lesion of the pyramidal system, the spinal segment reacts to the constant afferent im- pressions unrestrainedly, and its physiological capacity for such action slowly increases. Consequently the expression of the constant activity of the spinal segment, the muscle tone, increases, and rigidity is produced. The augmentor influence arises in some part of the central nervous system, below the midbrain and above the medulla. Its path in the spinal cord is not definitely known, but this does not cross in the medulla or spinal cord. If in the cat the cerebral hemispheres be removed, there ensues at once intense extensor rigidity of all four limbs—decerebrate rigidity. Semisection of the spinal cord or medulla abolishes this rigidity on the side of semisection below the point of section. Decerebrate rigidity, there- fore, must be due to incitations having their seat in the ponto-cerebellar region. In lower animals (cat and dog) the spinal segments possess sufficient autonomy not only to maintain muscular tone, but to produce rigidity when severed from all connection with the higher parts of the nervous system. In the higher apes this autonomy is much feebler, and in man the spinal segment cannot per se produce any degree of muscular tone. From this the most important clinical fact arises, that a complete transverse lesion of the spinal cord produces completely flaccid paralysis with loss of deep reflexes, while an incomplete lesion produces spastic paralysis, for the augmentor influence still maintains a hold upon the spinal segments below the lesion. Clinically the terms " hypertonus " and " hypotonus " are used for in- crease or decrease respectively in the muscle tone.PARALYSIS 269 Myotatic Irritability {Tendon Rejlexes). — These phenomena are responses of muscles in a state of tonus to mechanical stimulation applied in a certain way. They are increased, diminished, or lost in proportion as the muscular tone is increased or diminished. They are only reflex in the sense that the muscle tone necessary for their production is dependent upon the integrity of the reflex arc. The above physiological considerations are absolutely necessary for the clinical study of spastic paraplegia. We have seen that in man the muscle tone depends upon the integrity of two entirely distinct nervous mechanisms— firstly, the reflex arc consisting of sensory nerve, spinal segment, and motor nerve ; and, secondly, the integrity of the higher parts of the nervous system and the tracts connecting these with the spinal segments. Classification of the diseases in which spastic paraplegia is a characteristic symptom :— A. Diseases of the nervous system in which spastic paraplegia appears as a primary symptom. (1) Diseases confined to the pyramidal system— Primary lateral sclerosis. Familial spastic paraplegia. Cerebral diplegia. (2) Diseases affecting the pyramidal system and other parts of the nervous system— Disseminated sclerosis. Ataxic paraplegia. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Hereditary cerebellar ataxy of Marie. Syringomyelia. Spina bifida. General paralysis of the insane (certain cases). Syphilitic paraplegia. (3) Diseases of probable toxic origin— Pellagra. Lathyrism. Subacute combined degeneration. B. Diseases of the nervous system in which spastic paraplegia results as a secondary process— Acute myelitis. Hsematomyelia. Spinal meningitis. C. Injury to the nervous system— 1. By gradual pressure. Tumours of the spinal cord or meninges. Tumours arising in or secondarily involving the vertebral canal, aneurysm. Spinal caries. Pachymeningitis. 2. By sudden violence. Fractured dislocation of the spine. Gunshot and other wounds of the spinal cord. From this it will be seen that where spastic paraplegia exists there must be some loss of the influence usually exerted by the pyramidal system upon the spinal segments, either from degeneration of the nerve elements or interrup- tion of the spinal fibres of that system. The spinal segments must be themselves capable of carrying on their reflex functions, and this last condition requires that there is still some con- nection of the spinal segments with the higher parts of the nervous system. The lesions producing spastic paraplegia may be situated at any part of the pyramidal path from the cortex of the Rolandic area to the upper limit of the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. In the cerebral hemispheres such lesions must of necessity be bilateral to produce paraplegia, and the resulting conditions are distinguished by the term " diplegia," which indicates a lesion of cerebral location. In the base of the brain, pons, and medulla oblongata the pyramidal tracts are less widely separated, and may be simultaneously involved by a lesion of considerable size, but it is in the spinal cord, where these tracts are close together, that the pathological conditions which produce spastic paraplegia are most often situated. In primary spastic paraplegia and in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, however, the whole length of the pyramidal tract is aff"ected by a degenerative process. The nature of the lesions is most varied, and may be either a degenerative process primary in the nerve elements, a vascular lesion, a new- growth, or injury to the nervous system by gradual pressure or sudden violence. Clinical Aspect.—The essential features of spastic paraplegia, loss of power, with rigidity and increase of the deep reflexes, are rarely the sole conditions present, and it is only in primary degenerative conditions of the pyramidal system that other symptoms are entirely absent. For a time, however, such a simple picture may be present in the early stages of many of the above-mentioned diseases, especially in dissemi- nated sclerosis and in compression of the spinal cord. The majority of lesions aflect other systems besides the pyramidal, and signs of involvement of the sensory tracts, and perhaps of the grey matter, occur with or are added to those of simple spastic paraplegia. The pyramidal sys- tem appears to be less resistant to the eff'ects of pressure, sclerosis, and vascular lesions of slow occurrence than the other structures of the spinal cord, and perhaps this feature mayPARALYSIS 270 be connected with its later appearance in evolu- tion. Consequently a derogatory influence, such as progressive pressure upon the spinal cord or local vascular degeneration, will abrogate the functions of the pyramidal tracts first and most, though all the elements of the marrow may be exposed to the harmful influence. When recovery takes place again the pyramidal tracts are the last structures to regain their physiological activity. A lesion gradual in onset and slowly progressive, which affects the whole spinal cord at one point—such, for instance, as a collection of tubercular material, or a tumour pressing upon the spinal cord—will affect the various structures, and produce symptoms in an order which is for the most part constant. Firstly, the pyramidal tracts are affected, and loss of power, with rigidity and increase of the deep reflexes, ap- peal's. The tracts subserving the muscular sense and sense of passive position are the next to fail, and ataxy, with loss of sense of position, results. The paths by which sphincters are voluntarily controlled are deranged later, and retention of urine and constipation with involuntary sphincter action occur. Last of all, the undefined tracts of general sensibility are interrupted, and anaesthesia of common sensibility is produced. There is still one further stage—that where all the conducting functions of the spinal cord are lost at the place of injury, the connection of the higher parts of the nervous system with that part of the spinal cord below the seat of the lesion is cut, and muscular tonus in the paraplegic area is lost. The previous aspect of spasticity with increased deep reflexes changes at once to flaccid paraplegia with loss of the deep reflexes. The supervention of a stage of flaccidity in spastic paraplegia due to pressure is of the gravest significance, for recovery is possible, indeed not improbable, in many cases where motor paralysis is absolute and anaesthesia complete, even though this condition may have existed for weeks or months, if there is still spasticity; but when the flaccid stage has set in, complete recovery becomes impossible after a few days. The symptoms disappear in the reverse order when recovery takes place, except that sphincter trouble is apt to remain longest. For instance, a case in which a tumour pressed upon the mid-dorsal cord presented the above sequence of symptoms during a period of two months. Four days after the paralysis and anaesthesia had become complete, flaccidity with loss of the deep reflexes set in. Three days later the tumour was removed. After the operation the knee-jerks returned upon the third day; there was marked spasticity on the seventh day. The first sign of returning sensibility was noticed on the seventeenth day, the first voluntary move- ment on the thirty-fourth day, and some sphincter trouble lasted for three months. This patient returned to farm labour seven months after the operation with no abnormal physical signs. In addition to these symptoms, the lesion producing spastic paraplegia may give rise to local manifestations of great importance in de- termining the location and pathological nature of the disease. The anterior horns of the grey matter or the anterior roots may be involved, and local muscular wasting and paralysis, with changes of the electrical excitability of the muscles, may result in the region immediately above the paraplegic zone. The posterior roots and their prolongations may be affected, and ansesthesia of nerve-root distribution, areas of hypereesthesia, pains radiating along the course of certain nerves, girdle sensation, and occasion- ally herpes zoster may result. If the lesion be situated in the cervical region, or implicate the first thoracic nerve root, changes in the pupil, in the width of the palpebral aperture, and vascular disturbances of the face may result. When spastic paraplegia results from widely- spread disease of the nervous system, as in disseminated sclerosis, general paralysis, and syringomyelia, it is not as a rule sharply limited, often not of severe degree, and is sooner or later accompanied by some of the multitudinous symptoms of these diseases. Acute processes affecting the spinal cord locally, such as acute myelitis, hsematomyelia, fractured dislocation of the spine, and gunshot and punctured wounds, except in cases of the slightest severity, produce at first a condition of flaccid paralysis with loss of the deep reflexes, from which in the course of a few hours or days spastic paraplegia develops. Such initial flac- cidity may be explained by the phenomenon of shock as a condition of inhibition, or it may be presumed that a temporary complete physio- logical interruption of all the conducting ele- ments of the spinal cord occurs without com- plete anatomical destruction as a result of the lesion, and that such elements as i-etain their anatomical continuity speedily regain their function. When, however, complete anatomical destruc- tion occurs, the paraplegia remains flaccid and the deep reflexes are absent in the paraplegic region. It must, however, be remarked that if after a total lesion of the cord a patient live many months, he may ultimately regain the deep reflexes, and some slight signs of spasticity may return. It is possible that this rare occur- rence may be due either to the regeneration of fibres reproducing continuity of the severed cord, or to the resumption of such autonomy by the grey matter of the distal part of the spinal cord as exists in the lower animals. Motor System.—Where spastic paraplegia is of gradual onset, as in the majority of cases, loss of power shows itself, firstly, in the periphery of the limbs, and as a general rule the extensor muscles, abductor muscles, and external rotatorPARALYSIS 271 muscles fail before the flexor, adductor, and in- ternal rotator muscles. The first difficulty noticed by a patient is usually a tendency for the toes to catch the ground and to become in- verted in walking, and from this the boots are worn down at the toes and on the outer side in a peculiar fashion. At a later stage the gait becomes character- istic : the patient walks upon the toes with the feet inturned, the knees approximated and slightly flexed, and the thighs adducted, in- ternally rotated, and slightly flexed, so that the body is carried forward. The difficulty in per- forming the abduction at the hip necessary for projection of the leg in walking is often aided by tilting of the pelvis alternately to the right and left with each step. In the upper extremities, when these are affected, the wrist and fingers tend to be semi- flexed, the elbow flexed, with the forearm carried across the chest, and the ai'm adducted to the side. Muscular rigidity appears pari passu with the loss of power, sometimes preponderatingly, so that patients attribute their voluntary incapacity to the stiff"ness. Slowness on effort and resist- ance to passive movements are its signs, and these are later added to by the occurrence of contractures and the production of characteristic positions of the limbs, which in time are rendered permanent by alterations in the bony and liga- mentous structures. The common position of the foot is known as pes cavus. In this de- formity the foot is dropped, and often inverted, the plantar arch is increased, and the toes are hyperextended, so that they frequently form a right angle with the dorsum of the foot. The foot, viewed from its inner side, shows a Z-shaped border. The knee is generally rigid in the ex- tended position, the rigidity suddenly lessening directly the knee is bent by passive movement —clasp-knife rigidity. Occasionally the rigidity persists equally in all the stages of passive flexion. In late stages, however, it is the rule for flexor spasm to preponderate at the knee and contrac- ture of the hamstrings to occur. At the hip flexor and adductor spasm preponderates, and frequently contracture occurs. Where spastic paraplegia exists in young children it is not uncommon for scoliosis or lordosis to occur. The position of the upper extremity is usually one of flexion and adduction at all joints. Only in the rarest cases is a " manus cavus " compar- able to "pes cavus" met with. The wrist is then flexed and the fingers hyperextended at all joints. Contracture is a structural permanent shorten- ing of the muscle. It is associated with defects of the pyramidal system, and is not to be ex- plained by either muscular paralysis and un- opposed action of antagonistic muscles, nor as a result of hypertonus, for both the latter may exist for years without contracture, and, con- versely, contracture regularly occurs where there is neither rigidity nor an appreciable degree of motor paralysis in Friedreich's disease, in which, however, the pyramidal tract defect is present. The increase of spasm by peripheral stimuli is a common feature of severe degrees of spastic paraplegia. The causes exciting these " reflex spasms" are often slight, a draught of air, a slight movement of the bed-clothing, or the touch of a cold finger being sufficient to pro- duce the most powerful spasms. In the lower extremities these are most frequently flexor in type. Such reflex flexor spasms appearing in the course of spastic paraplegia are of the gravest significance to the patient, for his disease, perhaps hitherto quite painless, becomes with their manifestation a most painful one; to the physician, for they yield to no treatment and mark an irrecoverable stage of disease (Gowers); to the nurse, for the sacral bedsore is almost inevitable, since the friction from the repeated sudden spasms cannot be avoided. In the abdominal muscles, etc., spasms, either constant or reflex, may very considerably em- barrass respiration. There is frequently some general wasting of the muscles in spastic paraplegia of long dura- tion ; but where reflex spasms occur it is said that the muscles involved may be even hyper- trophied. The electrical excitability is un- altered, the slight raising or lowering of Faradic excitability commonly met with being due to altered conditions of the conductivity of the skin and subcutaneous tissues resulting from the paraplegia. Sensory Ma7iifest<itio7is.—Subjective sensory phenomena occur frequently in spastic para- plegia, due to local disease of the spinal cord. Dull fixed pain in the back and a sense of constriction encircling the body, or of distention —the so-called girdle sensations—are common in both intra- and extra-medullary lesions. Severe and sudden pains radiating over the areas supplied by the nerve roots indicate implication of the nerve roots, and are in favour of a lesion involving the meninges. These are not produced by movement of the spinal column, though often increased by such movement. Sharp pain actually produced by movement is common where the paraplegia is secondary to disease of the vertebral column. Objective Sensory Manifestations.—Anaesthesia is distributed segmentally upon the body in local lesions {vide p. 280). As the result of pressure and of vascular disease it is usual for pain to be lost earliest, then temperature, then the muscle sense, and lastly touch. In lesions aff"ecting the central parts of the cord especially, such as syringomyelia, haematomyelia, and central myelitis, sensibility to pain, heat, and cold are lost first, and often out of all propor-PAKALYSIS 272 tion to the tactual impairment. Even in these cases, however, it is the rule for slight tactual alteration to co-exist with and over the same area as the analgesia. Trophic and vaso-motor disturbances are not conspiciious, though frequently branny desqua- mation, thinning of the skin, depilation, and slight vaso-motor palsy may be present. When the lesion is situated above the thoracic cord and the vaso- and viscero-motor paths are inteiTupted, abdominal distension and great lowering of the blood pressure may result and are of the gravest importance. The typical condition of the sphincters in spastic paraplegia is one of reflex incontinence, but this condition is by no means invariable. Retention, with overflow, is not uncommon, and in a few late cases complete incontinence with patulous sphincters may occur, though the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord is quite intact. Sexual power is lost pari passu with penile sensibility. Reflex Action.—Superficial reflex action is increased below the lesion in partial lesions of the spinal cord and diminished in total trans- verse lesions. It is lost in the area actually supplied by that part of the spinal cord involved in the lesion. Whenever the pyramidal tract is damaged the reflex obtained from the sole of the corre- sponding foot is altered, the response consisting of extension of the toes, especially of the great toe. The normal response consists of flexion of the toes, least marked in the great toe. This phenomenon is one of the most important signs in the diff'erential diagnosis of lesions of the pyramidal tract. It is absolutely essential, however, to exclude voluntary movement and irregular reflex movement before a reflex re- sponse from the sole of the foot is finally determined to be of the extensor type, and, except in the hands of a practised observer, this is not always a simple matter. Tendon Reflexes.—As has been pointed out above, the tendon reflexes are increased below the lesion except where the lesion of the spinal cord is total at a given level. The tendon reflexes are lost in the area supplied by that part of the spinal cord actually involved in the lesion. The associated phenomenon of clonus may be obtained in any mviscle of the paraplegic region if suitable tension and mechanical stimiilus be applied. General clonus of all the muscles, the so-called epileptoid spasm, is readily obtainable in most of the severe cases by jarring the whole limb. It may be set up by a reflex spasm, and this has been called spontaneous clonus. Diagnosis.—(The diagnosis of paraplegia of cerebral origin will be found under the headings Double Hemiplegia, Diplegia, Cerebral Tumour, Pontine Lesions, etc.) In spastic paraplegia of spinal origin it must be first determined whether the lesion is local, diffuse, or systemic. The presence of signs and symptoms of segmental distribution sharply defined, such as girdle sensation, root pains, sharp lines of anaesthesia, and abrupt delimitation of muscular paralysis, characterise local lesions. Local signs in several widely-separated regions, such, for instance, as this combination which occurred in a case of disseminate sclerosis—slight spastic paraplegia of the legs, right trigeminal anaesthesia and paralysis, left third nerve paralysis, nystag- mus, and optic atrophy—suggest diff"use or multiple lesions. The absence of all local signs for months or years allows a diagnosis of systemic degeneration. The diagnosis is, more- over, in all cases aided by the clinical history. If a local lesion be present, (1) the situation, (2) the segmental level, and (3) the probable pathological nature of it must be determined. (1) Situation.—The lesion may be situated in the substance of the cord, in connection with the meninges, or in connection with the vertebrae. The diagnostic points are here—the occurrence of pain, the implication of nerve roots, and the presence of local signs of vertebral disease. In intramedullary lesions pain is never a conspicuous symptom (the fixed pain of syringo- myelia being excluded). Severe pains shooting along the nerve-root distributions, not caused by movement, though perhaps increased thereby, are characteristic of lesions implicating the meninges, and such pains usually precede the appearance of paraplegia for a short time. Local muscular atrophy of peculiar distribution, from implication of the anterior roots, also frequently occurs. Local signs of disease of the bone of the vertebral column, deformity, tenderness, pain on movement and on jarring the spine, and the presence of abscess, aneurysm, or cancer, suggest a lesion of the spinal column Girdle sensations may occur with each situa- tion of the disease, but are more common in intramedullary disease. Determination of the Level of the Lesion.—The upper limit of anaesthesia upon the trunk and limbs serves as an almost infallible guide to segmental location. Sensation must be tested in perpendicular lines upon the trunk, and both perpendicular and transverse lines upon the limbs; the slightest change noticed by the patient in passing from an area where sensation is perfect to where it is imperfect must be taken as this upper limit. No part of the body should escape at least rough testing, and tactual, pain- ful, and thermal stimuli should be applied. It is not clear whether the upper limits of anaes- thesia found in local disease of the spinal cord correspond with the limits of segmental sensory supply or nerve-root sensory supply, but this doubt does not aff"ect their localising value. (See Fig., p. 280.)PARALYSIS 273 The upper limit of muscles involved in the paralysis is the next most applicable sign in localisation, but it is not so exact nor so easy to investigate as is the anaesthesia. When the lesion is situated on or above the fourth cervical segment there is paralysis of the diaphragm. From the fourth cervical to the first thoracic segments the involvement of certain groups of the muscles of the upper extremity will indicate damage to each segment. The pupillary pheno- menon, etc., also indicates damage above or in the first thoracic segment. In the upper half of the thoracic region, since the only muscles supplied by this region of the cord are the intercostal and spinal muscles, narrow limitation of paralysis is not apparent. It must here be mentioned that the expansion movement of the five lower ribs is caused by the diaphragm, and exists where there is com- plete intercostal paralysis. From this it happens that intercostal paralysis is frequently over- looked. In the lower thoracic region, however, the most exact localisation is often possible by means of a sign first used by C. E. Beevor. The patient is examined in the supine position with the anterior wall of the abdomen bare, and is directed to make the attempt to sit up. As he does so the junction of the contracting with the non-contracting muscle often becomes plainly visible as a retraction ring. Where the sub- cutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall is too abundant for the usual perception of this pheno- menon, it may be felt with the hand. Further, the umbilicus, which in the normal state does not alter its position on the attempt to sit up, shifts upwards during such attempt if there is a lesion in the lower thoracic region. The state of the superficial and tendon reflexes is only a guide in that the bilateral absence of one of them indicates that the segment subserv- ing it is destroyed. The zone of hypersesthesia sometimes occur- ring at the upper limit of anaesthesia is of con- siderable localising value, but it is only rarely present. Girdle sensations are also valuable, as are root pains, but sometimes they do not indicate the upper limit of disease. Far more important than the last are local signs of disease in the vertebral column, de- formity, and tenderness; but these signs are often too diffuse for exact localisation, and should never be relied upon alone to indicate the level of the lesion. The determination of the pathological nature of the disease depends so much upon the history, clinical aspect, and course of each case, that few general statements of value can be made. From the mode of onset it may be broadly stated that if this be sudden the lesion is a haemorrhage. If it be acute (1-3 days), myelitis (thrombosis) is most often responsible. If subacute (1-3 months), pressure upon the spinal cord is most likely. Toxic processes are chronic, and de- VOL. VII generative processes still more chronic. To each of these statements, however, exceptions are not rare. If pain be a prominent and early symptom, a pressure lesion or pachymeningitis may be safely inferred, but the converse does not hold good; as an instance, the paraplegia of spinal caries may be unassociated with pain. Pain is as a rule absent in vascular lesions, in- cluding myelitis, and in degenerative lesions. The difi^erential diagnosis of the diseases asso- ciated with spastic paraplegia will be found under the titles on p. 274. It is useful to bear in mind that a case of spastic paraplegia which does not present signs at once furnishing a diagnosis is most often due to acute myelitis if the onset be acute, to spinal caries if subacute, and to disseminated sclerosis if chronic. Primary Lateral Sclerosis. — There has been much discussion as to whether a primary system disease limited to the pyramidal tracts occurs affecting the lower end of the upper neuron pyramidal fibre in a way comparable to the affection of the lower neuron (peripheral nerve) in multiple neuritis. A condition nearly approaching to this has been found in certain cases of general paralysis of the insane, but it is here not an uncomplicated process. No convincing pathological records are forthcoming upon which a pathological entity of primary acquired lateral tract degeneration can be based. It is said, however, in explanation, that this disease rarely destroys life. Notwithstanding, however, the absence of satisfactory pathological data, there seems to be a group of cases to which the name primary lateral sclerosis may appropriately be given. Causation.—As in other chronic spinal cord diseases occasional neuropathic heredity can be traced. Males and females are affected in about equal numbers. The symptoms usually appear in the third and fourth decades of life. Primary spastic paraplegia sometimes follows syphilis in a way to suggest a causal relation, but this antecedent is not frequent. The onset of symptoms sometimes follows injury to the spine, exposure to wet, cold, over-exertion, and general illness. Symptoms. — Gradually increasing weakness of the legs is the earliest symptom to appear. The patient finds that he becomes tired more easily than before, and the legs feel heavy. Often one leg is affected before the other. The tendency to spasm is at first noticeable as slight stiffness of the legs in rising in the morning, and this gradually increases in degree as power lessens. Power is lost earliest in the anterior tibial group of muscles. The legs are rigid in exten- sion and the clasp-knife phenomenon is well marked. Rarely, short attacks of flexor spasm occur chiefly at night. It is only in rare in- stances that the arms are affected. 18PARALYSIS 274 The clinical picture is that of spastic para- plegia, and for its details the reader is referred to the general desci'iption above given. No sensory disorders are present with the exception of dull pain in the back. The sphincters are unafltected, and no girdle sensa- tion is present. Cranial nerves and special senses are not affected. Diagnosis.—There are so many diseases of the spinal cord of which the aspect at some period of their course resembles pure lateral sclerosis, that a correct diagnosis can only be arrived at by a process of exclusion. This disease has no pathognomonic symptoms, its characteristic being the absence of signs point- ing to lesions of parts of the central nervous system other than the pyramidal tracts. It is clear that only by watching the progress of a case over a long period can a probable diagnosis be arrived at. A case exactly answering to the above description of simple spastic paraplegia may develop the fixed pupil, tremors, and mental disturbance of general paralysis; the appearance of nystagmus and ocular palsies, intention tremor and sphincter trouble, may necessitate that the diagnosis is changed to disseminated sclerosis ; muscular wasting in the small muscles of the hand marks the case one of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; and the appearance of local signs in the vertebral column may spell spinal caries. For this reason, in a case seen soon after the onset of the symptoms, the diagnosis of primary spastic paraplegia is one that must be made tentatively to serve until the appearance of some other symptom labels the disease accurately. If after years such symptoms fail to appear, the diagnosis may be considered as finally correct. The majority of cases with this clini- cal aspect in young adults without a history of antecedent syphilis are cases of disseminated sclerosis, and it is astonishing in this disease how long the more classic symptoms, such as nystagmus, ocular palsies, altered speech, tremor, etc., may remain absent. Prognosis.—In primary lateral sclerosis there is some prospect of arrest and even of improve- ment if the disease has not reached an advanced stage. Actual recovery is rare, but is said to have occurred. When the spastic state is developed it is rare for treatment to produce more than arrest. There is not at present any guide to the prognosis of any individual case, besides its duration and degree, except its observed tendency especially under treatment. Treatment.—Drugs have little influence upon this disease. Arsenic and mercury in small doses; iron, quinine, and nux vomica have proved useful. The last of these must be used with caution, as it tends to increase the spasm. Massage and passive movements are often of signal service. Electricity in any form seems to do harm by exciting reflex spasm. Rest in bed seems to have ushered in improvement in many cases ; but it should never be absolute, as such patients kept strictly in bed may lose the power they previously had from disuse, and are sure to attribute the deterioration to the con- finement, perhaps not altogether incorrectly. Fraenckel's exercises often do good, and they, at the same time, occupy and interest the patient. Familial Spastic Paraplegia. — The occur- rence of primary lateral sclerosis in several members of the same family was first noticed by Erb and Striimpell in 1888. The disease is a rare one and aftects males and females equally, and may be directly transmitted to children through either parent. Several members of each generation as a rule suff'er, and those members of an affected family who are said to be healthy, if carefully examined, are often found to present slight signs of spasticity, such as pes cavus, foot clonus, and slightly spastic gait, though they may never reach a degree sufficient to interfere with comfort and daily labour. Other neuropathic tendencies some- times are present in the family, such as insanity. The symptoms become obtrusive between the age of puberty and thirty years. Clumsi- ness in walking and stiffness of the legs are first noticed, subsequently the movements of the hands become slow and awkward, and general slowly progressive spastic paraplegia results. In some cases spastic bulbar symp- toms, dysphagia, dysarthria, etc., have arisen. There is no alteration of sensibility, and the sphincters" are unaffected. Pes cavus is in- variably present. A slowly progressive mental dulness is common, and the disposition is placid and good-tempered. In some cases progressive atrophy is present. After many years the patients may become bed- ridden, or the condition may cease to progress in a slight or severe stage of spastic paraplegia. Pathology. — This disease seems to depend upon an inherent weakness of the pyramidal cells of the cortex cerebri, which after a longer or shorter tenure of vitality undergo degeneration. Treatment.—No special treatment is known to influence the disease, but the measures re- commended for the treatment of primary lateral sclerosis may be adopted. Syphilitic Paraplegia of Erb.—Under this title Erb has described a class of cases with a clinical aspect sufficiently distinct to deserve special description, and of which syphilis is the invariable antecedent. It must be here stated, however, that Erb's type is not the common type of spastic paraplegia due to syphilis ; acute myelitis with consecutive spastic paraplegia being a much more common result of luetic infection. Males are much more frequently affected than females. The onset is insidious, and occurs in half the cases within three years of infection, and in almost all cases within five years. The symptoms are those of progressive spastic para-275 PARALYSIS plegia, the upper limit of the affected regions corresponding with the lower half of the thor- acic spinal cord. Dull aching pain in the back, often affecting also the legs, is an obtrusive and troublesome symptom. The most distinctive sign is great increase of the tendon reflexes, often the presence of epileptoid spasms and much rigidity, notwithstanding which fair volun- tary power is preserved, and the patient may be able to walk with an ease which is surpi'ising. Slight changes in common sensibility are present, and the sphincters are always affected, but usually not to a severe degree. These cases usually improve under treatment, and the symp- toms may entirely disappear. Morbid Anatomy.—The condition is believed to depend upon a local syphilitic infiltration of the pia arachnoid and superficial parts of the spinal cord, with small foci of thrombosis in the substance of the cord. Diagmsis.—This type is distinguished by a history of antecedent syphilis; by the gradual onset, chronic pain, preservation of voluntary movement with spastic paraplegia, sphincter trouble, and a tendency to improve greatly under treatment. Treatment. — Energetic antisyphilitic treat- ment with the most careful attention to the improvement of general nutrition is necessary. Mercury is indispensable and should be ad- ministered by inunction. Strychnine should be avoided. Continuous rest in bed should be avoided, as the power of walking soon becomes impaired from the lack of practice. When improvement sets in massage and passive movement to the legs are most beneficial, and Fraenckel's exercises are very useful. Infantile Spastic Paralysis.—Spastic para- lysis occurring in children is most frequently due to affections of the brain, less commonly to lesions of the spinal cord. In the former the lesion may be bilateral or unilateral, and the resulting paralysis, diplegia or hemiplegia. In the latter case the paralysis is segmental and paraplegic in distribution. The result- ing groups, (1) Cerebral diplegia, (2) Infantile hemiplegia, and (3) Infantile paraplegia, are further separated in that each constituting a distinct pathological entity bears no pathological relation with the others. Cerebral Diplegia.—Synonyms : Little's dis- ease ; Congenital spastic paraplegia; Birth palsy. The term cerebral diplegia comprehends a group of diseases for the most part congenitally installed, with a somewhat varied clinical aspect, but in all of which spastic paralysis, frequently associated with perverse movement, is distri- buted upon both sides of the body. Mental impairment and recurring convulsions are fre- quently associated. A widely spread, diffuse lesion of the cerebral cortex of both hemispheres is invariably present. The clinical picture of this group was first described by Little in 18-53, who was the first to show its association with premature birth. The use of the term "birth palsy" by subse- quent writers most unfortunately led to the erroneous connection of this disease with cerebral injuries received during birth. The misinter- pretation of an important pathological com- munication by MacNutt, in 1888, led to the association of this disease in England with meningeal hEcmorrhage. Further pathological investigation has led to the abandonment of meningeal haemorrhage occurring during birth as a cause of cerebral diplegia, which has been proved to depend upon a primary degenerative process occurring in the cerebral cortex. Causation. — The symptoms of the disease are in rare instances evident at birth. More frequently, some abnormality of movement first calls the attention of the nurse or parents some weeks after birth. Again, when the time arrives for a child to walk or to talk, his bodily defect may for the first time become apparent. In all cases appearing before the third year it is probable that the disease is congenitally installed. After the third year the occurrence of diplegia is very rare. Such cases of acquired diplegia do however occur, and have been met with as late as the fourth decade of life. Among the subjects of this disease males preponderate slightly. Heredity as a rule plays no part in the causation of the disease, but instances of a mother afflicted with congenital diplegia giving birth to similarly affected children are re- corded. The known etiological factors of congenital diplegia are maternal pathological states. A history of ill-health of the mother during preg- nancy is common in cases of diplegia. The mother often volunteers the statement that while she was perfectly well and strong during her other pregnancies, her health failed com- pletely during the carriage of the child afflicted with diplegia. Overwork and privation some- times account for this failure of health. Several recorded cases give a history that a woman after bearing healthy children suffers with symptoms which may be described as those of chronic neurasthenia. She then gives birth to a child afflicted with diplegia, and her subsequent preg- nancies end in still-births. This seems to show a gradual failure in the physiological process of generation, and it has been pointed out by most authors who have written on the subject that the youngest members of large families are especially prone to suffer. Not uncommonly several children of the same mother are affected, and it has been repeatedly observed that where one child of a family is afflicted with diplegia, the mortality among the other children is re- markable, and premature birth is common. In some cases a pathological psychic state of the mother during the time of pregnancy has been noted. Acute diseases and acute specific276 PARALYSIS fevers occurring during pregnancy are of great importance as etiological factors in this disease. Syphilis is a most important and by far the most common maternal disease standing as a causal antecedent to cerebral diplegia. Premature birth and precipitate labour, difficult labour and asphyxia neonatorum, are frequent associated conditions, and until recently were held as the essential factors of the disease. It is, however, only an infinitesimal minority of prematurely born children who become afflicted with diplegia, and the difficulty of labour asso- ciated with diplegia is not that due to obstruc- tion in the parturient path, but that due to uterine inertia, itself a sign of an abnormal maternal state. It is highly probable, therefore, that abnormalities of birth stand not in causal relation with the disease, but are concomitant effects of a morbid maternal state. In the consideration of cases of cerebral diplegia, arising after birth, stress must be laid upon the fact that the post-natal appearance of symptoms of disease is no proof that the disease was not congenitally determined. The possibility of an acute disease immediately pre- ceding the onset of symptoms being in some cases only an immediate exciting cause, bringing into evidence a latent pathological condition, must also be borne in mind. Most cases of post-natal cerebral diplegia do not follow any known acute disease. Cases have been reported in which the onset of symptoms directly followed the occurrence of the following acute diseases: gastro-enteritis, scarlet fever, measles, mumps, pneumonia, acute rheumatism, typhoid, diphtheria, and influenza. The clinical picture of cerebral diplegia, in all its forms, presents a combination, in vary- ing degrees, of certain characteristic symptoms always bilaterally represented, though often more severe upon one side of the body than the other. These symptoms are: muscular rigidity, paresis, perverse movements, contrac- tures, and increased deep reflexes. Mental deficiency is commonly present. According as one or more of these symptoms preponderates over the other and dominates the clinical picture, certain striking types may be distinguished :—(1) General rigidity, where the spasm and paresis are more or less uniformly distributed throughout the whole body. (2) Paraplegic rigidity, where the lower extremities alone are markedly affected. (3) Bilateral athe- tosis, where slow perverse movement, occurring chiefly in the peripheral part of the limbs, is obtrusive. (4) Choreiform diplegia (congenital chorea), where the perverse movement is quick and occurs chiefly at the proximal joints of the limbs. (5) Congenital spastic idiocy, where the mental deficiency is very marked, and the other symptoms slight. One-half of all cases of di- plegia are of the type "general rigidity," and one-quarter " paraplegic rigidity "—the remain- ing fourth being distributed equally between the other types. Clinical Aspect.—In the majority of cases of generalised rigidity and in athetotic and choreic diplegia, the symptoms date from birth. Often in slighter cases the symptoms are only mani- fested when the child begins to crawl about or to walk. The attention of the parents may be drawn to the fact that something is wrong with the child by its being backward in talking and mentally unlike other children, and examination may then reveal slight generalised or paraplegic rigidity. The nurse, in washing the child, is often the first to notice the unnatural stiffness of the limbs. In congenital athetotic and choreic forms, the symptoms become much more evident when the child begins to get about. In cases where the symptoms are noticed first some time after birth, a careful attention to the history of the case will generally reveal some abnormality of the child, indicating that the case was con- genital, and separating it from cases of post- natal origin. Such symptoms, as difficulty of swallowing, strabismus, nystagmus, slight per- verse movements (choreic and athetotic), slight rigidity, the regular assumption of an unnatural attitude, and pes cavus, are likely to be noticed by those who tend the infant, and are of great value in that they may be the earliest signs of disease to attract attention. In post-natal cases the disease is often ushered in by a group of symptoms resembling the pro- dromal symptoms of acute anterior poliomyelitis, namely, malaise, anorexia, headache, slight fever, and sometimes vomiting. These symptoms last from one to four days, after which the symptoms of diplegia gradually make their appearance. The onset of the disease is frequently with con- vulsions, either a single attack of convulsion or repeated attacks. After such convulsions the symptoms of diplegia may come on slowly, or may develop from a condition of general paresis of the limbs and trunk which immediately follows the convulsive attack. Sometimes both convul- sions and febrile symptoms, lasting a few days, occur at the commencement of the disease, and this has been more often noticed in cases of post-natal paraplegic rigidity. In other cases the onset is gradual, and is not accompanied either by convulsions or febrile symptoms, and it may be many weeks before the symptoms reach moderate intensity. Such chronic onsets sometimes date from some trauma to the head, often of a trifling nature. A slow onset without definite initial symptoms is the rule in cases commencing after childhood. The course of the disease, speaking generally of all types, may be either regularly progressive, or the symptoms, having reached a certain de- gree of intensity, may either remain stationary or tend to some slight amelioration. In severe cases of generalised rigidity, and in most athe- totic forms, a progressive course is the rule,PARALYSIS 277 and very few patients so afflicted reach adult life. A tendency to amelioration is sometimes seen in cases of slight generalised rigidity and in cases of paraplegic rigidity; but even in the slightest cases the amount of improvement is not great, and the symptoms never entirely disappear. Between the several types of cerebral diplegia there exists every variety of transitional form and combination. Generalised Rigidity.—As its name implies, the chief characteristic of this type of diplegia is a condition of miiscular rigidity associated with weakness affecting to a greater or less ex- tent all the muscles of the body. Except in the most severe cases, where the weakness amounts to complete paralysis, there is more rigidity than weakness. In some cases it is astonishing that there should be so much power in the presence of such a degree of rigidity. The dis- tribution of the rigidity and weakness is gener- ally that the lower extremities are most affected, the upper to a less degree, and the facial region still less. In a few cases the arms have been more affected than the legs. Movement is slow and clumsy, and often athetotic, and choreic movements are present in the limbs. If the patient is able to walk, the gait is digitigrade from contracture of the calf muscles. The knees are slightly flexed from contracture of the hamstrings. The thighs are rotated in- wards and the knees pressed close together, rubbing against one another with each projec- tion of the limb. More severe adductor spasm gives rise commonly to the " cross-legged" progression. The assumption of the sitting position is im- possible in marked cases. When such a patient is placed in a chair the legs stand out stiffly, and the child will not fit the chair, owing to the rigidity preventing the necessary flexion at the junction of the lower extremities with the trunk; he tends, therefore, to slide off. In the most severe cases the patient lies in a log-like fashion, unable to move or turn in bed, and then the rigidity may reach such a degree that he may be lifted by the heels in one rigid piece, the weight of the body being supported on the back of the head. In this stage, owing to muscular contractures, certain characteristic attitudes are assumed which will be described later on. Mental Symptoms.—Every degree of mental impairment is met with in these cases, from slight mental dulness to complete amentia. As a rule the average degree of mental impairment is more profound than in other types of diplegia. It, however, does not always correspond to the severity of the rigidity and paralysis. The most profound mental deficiency may exist in cases where the rigidity and paralysis are quite slight, and vice versd. This corresponds with the greater or less affection of the prse-frontal lobes. Speech Defects.—In congenital cases, and in cases occiirring before the eighteenth month, speech may never be acquired, or may be much delayed, and when acquired is often imperfect. Articulation is imperfect ] slowness of speech, with great facial overaction, slurring, and stammering often occur. When the disease arises after speech is learnt this is generally completely lost if the child be younger than six years of age, and if the case be at all severe. The loss of speech may be quite gradual, and where some intelligence persists, the under- standing of words may remain in patients who can utter no articulate sound. Convulsions. — With this type of cerebral diplegia convulsive attacks are more commonly associated than with the other types, choreic diplegia and bilateral spastic hemiplegia being excepted. They occur in rather more than half the cases. Cranial Nerves. — Primary optic atrophy occurs in a considerable number of cases. It may produce complete blindness. Inequality of the pupils and slowness of the light reaction are not uncommon. Spontaneous nystagmus of very wide range is common in cases where the face is markedly affected. It is to be regarded as the spastic ocular sign analogous to the rigidity elsewhere, and pro- duced in the same manner. Convergent strabismus occurs in about 30 per cent of the cases. In nearly all cases the face shows signs of paresis and rigidity. With slight involvement of the face this may be shown by a general loss of emotional expression, slight retraction of the eyelids, and some retraction of the angles of the mouth. With more severe involvement of the face, an unvarying starched expression, with wide palpebral apertures and a lai'ge open mouth (honche en ckxlt) are present. Slobber- ing is common. In some cases involuntary facial overaction is present, and gives rise to varying grimaces on attempts to move the face or on speaking. Athetoid movements of the face are not rarely seen. The tongue is often very large and the hard palate very much arched. The presence of adenoid vegetations in the pharynx is frequently noticed. Difficulty of swallowing is present in the large majority of cases, though it may be slight. On watching the act of deglutition in these cases the difficulty seems due to rigidity of the muscular apparatus rather than to any paralysis. Laryngeal difficulties, dysphonia, stridor, etc., have been occasionally noticed. Conformity of the Skull.—In congenital cases microcephaly is generally present (2-5 per cent of all cases). Signs of hydrocephalus are278 PARALYSIS present in some cases. Asymmetry and flatten- ing of the region of the central convohitions are common. In a few cases a defect in the skull in the central region, through which the brain could be felt to pulsate, has been found, and autopsies upon such cases have shown a porencephalic defect underlying the hole in the skull. Attitude.—In the more severe cases charac- teristic attitudes ai'e assumed. The head may be rigidly retracted, but more commonly the chin is pressed down upon the chest. Torti- collis has been noticed in two cases by Rosenthal. The spinal column generally shows kyphosis, sometimes lordosis, and often scoliosis. The cases presenting lordosis usually have head retraction, and those with kyphosis a flexed position of the head. Several characteristic attitudes have been described and named, and these occur with sufficient frequency to deserve special note. (1) The Cramped Attitude.—The head and trunk are bent forward. There is kyphosis. The elbows are pressed into the sides and the forearms crossed on the chest in contracture. There is contracture in the fully-flexed position at hip and knee joints. The position has been described as that in which the patient occupies the least possible space. (2) The Attitude of Adoration.—The head is retracted and the eyes are staring. There is lordosis. The elbows are pressed into the sides, and the hands are held supinated below the face. The legs are rigidly extended. (3) The Ertension-Stqyination Position.—The limbs are fully extended and the forearms are fully supinated. More rarely extreme pronation is associated with the extended position of the limbs. Pes cavus is present in most of the cases. Some cases show a condition of talipes equino- varus. Genu recurvatum sometimes occurs. The mode of progression in these cases, where any is possible, is characteristic. Little com- pared the gait to that of the tardigrade animals. Tiie " cross-legged progression " is so well known as to need no description here. Where the legs are so severely affected as to render walking impossible, while fair power remains in the upper limbs, the patient may crawl along the ground with the upper limbs, dragging the useless lower limbs and trunk. Muscles.—In some cases a curious hardness and resistant feeling of the affected muscles is present, resembling a similar condition in pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis. If athetosis is associated with the rigidity, there may be actual hypertrophy of the muscles. In late stages of severe generalised rigidity the muscles are always wasted. Perverse Movemerits. — Under this heading must be classed the very constant maladroit- ness of movement present in these cases, the facial overaction and grimacing in speech and in mimetic expression, choreic movements and athetotic movements and intention tremor. These forms of perverse movements are only present where the rigidity is absent. Athetotic movements sometimes are present in the face; choreic movements never. Not rarely choreic or athetotic movements are present in the upper extremities, associated with slight rigidity, while severe rigidity afl'ects the lower limbs. Choreic movements may develop pari passu with the rigidity. A case of generalised rigidity may clear up for the most part, leaving a choreic diplegia. Athetotic movements always appear at a later date than rigidity. Cases presenting either choreic or athetotic movements are said never to improve after such movements have made their appearance. Tremor, precisely resembling that seen in disseminated sclerosis, is sometimes seen in limbs where the rigidity is slight. Probably some of the so-called cases of disseminated sclerosis in children are in reality cases of diplegia. Common sensation and the muscular sense are unimpaired in the cases where their accurate investigation is possible. In the severe cases there is very great pain on passive movement of the rigid joints, probably owing to the formation of rest adhesions. Trophic changes are confined to a stunting of growth, but this is not nearly so well marked in the diplegias as in infantile hemiplegia and in bilateral spastic hemiplegia. In diplegia the bilaterality of the distribution renders it difficult to estimate. The sphincters are unaffected. The deep reflexes are exaggerated, but are difficult to obtain in limbs which are very rigid, and for this reason foot clonus is not generally obtained. Of the superficial reflexes those of the trunk are absent in marked cases. The plantar reflexes are usually of the extensor type, but sometimes of the flexor type. Congenital Spastic Idiocy.—These cases are placed under a special heading because of their peculiar clinical aspect. They present slight symptoms of generalised rigidity with profound mental changes, which generally amount to complete idiocy. In these cases the incidence of the cortical lesion is chiefly upon the frontal convolutions. Paraplegic Rigidity — Little's Disease. — In this type the rigidity and paresis are confined to the lower extremities. Tardigrade progres- sion, or the ci-oss-legged progression, or the " broken - backed " progression, is present. Adductor and extensor spasm of the legs with pes cavus is the rule. Not rarely tliere is hyperextension of the knees. The general de- scription given in the description of Generalised279 PARALYSIS Rigidity applies, as regards the lower ex- tremities, to this type. Convergent strabismus occurs more frequently in this type than in the others, and is found in 30 per cent of the cases. Mental defects, difficulties of speech and of swallowing, occur as frequently as in other types, but for the most part in a lesser degree of severity. Convulsions are present in 36 per cent of the cases. Combinations of paraplegic rigidity, with choreic diplegia and with bilateral athetosis, occur. Bilateral Athetosis and Choreic Diplegia {Congenital Chorea).—The essential feature of the types consists in the presence of constantly occurring spontaneous movements which may affect all the muscles of the body. Bilateral athetosis and choreic diplegia are only separated as types by the form and extent of the spontaneous movements, and the two forms of movement may occur in the same case. The movements of athetosis are slow, rhythmical, and affect the peripheral parts of the limbs most. The choreic movements are quick, shock- like, localised, and affect the proximal parts of the limbs most. The term " choreic move- ments " is an unfortunate one, as the movements in no way resemble those of true chorea. The trunk muscles are often affected. Choreic movements always cease during sleep. Athetosis frequently affects the face, and is associated with great facial overaction and grim- acing on voluntary movement. The tongue, when at rest in the mouth and when protruded, may show most evident athetosis. In severe cases all the muscles of the body may be affected, and the movements beginning in one limb may spread successively to the other limb on the same side, and then to the opposite limbs. In some cases the movements are confined to one region of the body. The face or the upper or lower extremities may be affected alone. Athe- totic movements sometimes continue during sleep. Slight generalised rigidity and paresis are present in these cases, though they may amount to little more than an increase of the deep reflexes and slowness of voluntary move- ment. The same mental changes, affection of speech, nystagmus, strabismus, optic atrophy, and dysphagia, as have been described in Generalised Rigidity, occur in bilateral athetosis and in choreic diplegia. A few points, how- ever, demand special notice. Even in the most severe cases of bilateral athetosis the mental changes may be very slight. Convulsions are common in choreic diplegia, but are very rare in cases of bilateral athetosis. In both types intention tremor is not infrequently noticed. In athetosis, actual hypertrophy of the muscles is sometimes seen. Course of the Disease.—Some cases are regu- larly progressive, either rapidly or slowly, and this generally is the case with the more severe forms of generalised rigidity. Others, after the symptoms have reached a certain degree of intensity, may remain stationary, or may tend to improve. The latter result is more often seen in cases of paraplegic rigidity and slight generalised rigidity. The amount of improve- ment is, however, rarely great. In slight cases of generalised rigidity the symptoms may dis- appear from the upper limbs, leaving a condition of paraplegic rigidity. Improvement is, perhaps, never met with in bilateral athetosis and choreic diplegia, and cases of athetosis are usually progressive. Speaking generally, cerebral diplegia tends to shorten life much more than does hemiplegia, and few infantile cases reach adult life. Pathology.—Though a considerable number of autopsies have been recorded, the examination has been made long after the onset of the disease, and from the condition found it has been im- possible to infer the initial lesion. In nearly all the cases there has been symmetrical atrophy and sclerosis of the convolutions of both cere- bral hemispheres, without disturbance of their form and arrangement. The atrophy always affects the Rolandic region to a greater or less extent. The convolutions are small and hard, and the sulci widened. The cortex is thinned, and its surface often presents a worm-eaten appearance. The surface of the brain generally presents an appearance like that of a walnut kernel. Often associated with this atrophy are cysts, sometimes multiple and small, sometimes large, a condition of porencephaly being present. There is usually some dilatation of the ven- tricles. Microscopically there is atrophy of the nerve-cells of the grey matter, and in proportion as the case is of long standing or recent, there is more or less increase of the glial tissue and periarterial thickening. Many different pathological processes have been held responsible for the atrophy of the cortex. Meningeal hsemorrhage occurring at birth, venous and arterial thrombosis in the cerebral cortex, embolism, and in cases where cysts exist, cerebral haemorrhages, have been brought forward as the primary lesions, but with increasing investigation the evidence has gone against these factors. Non-development of the pyramidal system is rather the result than the cause of the disease, as some authorities hold. Polioencephalitis has been proved to pro- duce diplegia only in adults, and the clinical picture of this rare disease is peculiar. There is much evidence that the condition depends upon a primary degeneration of the nerve-cells of the cerebral cortex, and it is probable that this degeneration is caused by some as yet unknown toxic agent. Differential Diagnosis.—The diseases most280 PARALYSIS likely to be confounded with cerebral diplegia are Marie's hereditary ataxy, Friedreich's ataxy, disseminated sclerosis occurring in children, and familial spastic paralysis. Treatment.—Only the slighter forms of general- ised and paraplegic rigidity afford any scope for treatment. Careful mental training and the regular use of appropriate gymnastic exercises may do much to aid improvement. Slow extension and the division of tendons in followed some time later, if the child live, by general muscular wasting and rigidity. The limbs may ultimately become quite flaccid. Great mental failure, optic atrophy, and peculiar retinal changes have been present. The retinal changes are in the macular region, where a whitish-grey oval patch is seen about twice the size of the optic disc, with its long axis lying horizontally, and its surface slightly raised above the general surface. The fovea centralis is seen as a cherry-red spot in the centre of this (After Collier and Purves Stewart.) slight cases where contractures have occurred have produced encouraging results. Infantile Cerebral Degeneration. — Nearly allied to the disease just described is a remark- able and very characteristic group of cases, first described by Warren Tay, to which the above name has been applied. In the reported cases of this disease the patients have all been Hebrews. The disease is familial. There have been no clinical ante- cedents. Birth has always been natural and at full term. The patients have been healthy till between the third and sixth months, when general weakness comes on insidiously, and is area. The disease has proved fatal in all cases at an early period, generally before the second year of life. A progressive primary degeneration of the large cells of the cerebral cortex has been con- stantly found in these cases. A similar de- generation of the cells of the retina has been also present. Infantile Hemiplegia.—While according to the strict meaning of the term "infantile" this group should comprise all cases of hemiplegia occurring before the age of puberty, it has become broadly restricted to cases occurring before the sixth year of life. There are severalPARALYSIS 281 reasons for this limitation. Either from the peculiarity of the pathological process under- lying the disease, or from some property of the cerebral tissues of children to retain in part their vitality after injury, the post-mortem appearances of the brain in cases of infantile hemiplegia are strikingly different from those met with in adult hemiplegia. Again, local injury occurring during the period of active growth and before the taking up of function is complete, is more easily compensated by the taking up of a function by the uninjured parts. It must be pointed out, however, that while from such compensation functions of the infan- tile brain are better preserved in the destruction of limited areas by disease than are those of the adult brain, widespread lesions produce far more loss of function than occurs in the adult brain, great mental impairment resulting. Further, clinically, infantile hemiplegia is characterised by stunting of growth and often by athetosis on the paralysed side; by the absence of aphasia, and by the occurrence of recurring convulsions in many cases. Causation.—In a few cases infantile hemi- plegia is of intra-uterine origin, and some cases dating from birth are due to cerebral injuries received during parturition where labour is obstructed, and where instrumental delivery is necessary. In the majority of the cases—75 per cent— the onset is during the first three years of life, and in 60 per cent during the first two years. Females preponderate slightly over males. Neuropathic heredity and parental syphilis do not appear to be in causal relation with the disease. Most frequently the disease is not distinctly secondary to any known morbid influence. Less often it follows some acute disease, occur- ring either during the decline of the disease or within a fortnight of its termination. Scarlet fever, measles, and diarrhoea are the most common diseases associated with infantile hemi- plegia. Other diseases are broncho-pneumonia, diphtheria, typhoid fever, and mumps. It sometimes occurs during a paroxysm in whoop- ing-cough, presumably from cerebral haemor- rhage. It is almost unknown in connection with acute or chronic rheumatism. Clinical Aspect.—The onset is always acute, and is attended in more than half the cases with severe convulsion and loss of consciousness, which may last for days. The hemiplegia may be at once apparent when the child regains consciousness, or it may not show itself until several attacks of convulsions, separated per- haps by days, have occurred. It may then in- crease in severity with each attack until it becomes severe. Where initial convulsions are absent the child is seized with fever, vomits, and becomes prostrate or comatose, and on recovering, the hemiplegia is first noticed. In older children headache is usually complained of, and transient aphasia may occur if the hemiplegia be on the right side, but permanent aphasia does not occur in children under six years of age imless a very severe degree of mental impairment is associated. The hemiplegia, which is more common upon the right side, may be complete at first, and in children who can speak hemiansesthesia may sometimes be demonstrated, but it is rapidly transient. Soon the paralysis lessens, and the persistent condition, after the lapse of time, varies in different cases from an incapacitating degree of hemiplegia to complete recovery. Very rarely the hemiplegia is bilateral; it is then profound, and little improvement takes place. The ultimate condition depends upon the severity of the symptoms first manifest. In most cases the face shows little permanent paralysis, but there is often some overaction and involuntary grimacing upon the affected side. Both the face and the tongue may show athetosis. Not infrequently there is convergent strabismus. The arm is always more affected than the leg, and power is recovered most at the shoulder and least in the fingers. Post- hemiplegic perverse movements are frequently met with in the arm, rarely in the leg. Slow, spontaneous rhythmic movements (athetosis) occur chiefly at the peripheral joints of the limb, and are seen more typically in this disease than in any other condition. They are most marked when they occur in a completely para- lysed limb. When some volitional movement remains, athetosis may sometimes be controlled voluntarily. Short, sharp involuntary move- ments are of rare occurrence; they occur in limbs where considerable voluntary power has been regained, and affect chiefly the proximal parts of the limb (shoulder and hip). Such movements have been called post-hemiplegic chorea. As perverse movements also must be classed the slowness and clumsiness with which almost all the movements of the hemiplegic side are carried out. Where any considerable degree of hemiplegia persists the paralysed muscles soon become hypertonic, and rigidity sets in with con- tractions at the joints, and the assumption of peculiar positions of the limbs. In the upper limb the elbow is usually flexed ; the forearm pronated; the wrist flexed; the fingers flexed at the metacarpo-phalaugeal joints and extended at the other joints, and the thumb adducted— contracture being present at all these joints. In the lower limb the most consistent de- formity is dropping of the foot and pes cavus, the Z-shaped outline of the foot seen from the inner side being characteristic. There is some- times inversion of the foot. Some degree of kyphosis and scoliosis, with the concavity to the hemiplegic side in the dorso-lumbar region, is common. The pelvis is tilted down on thePARALYSIS 282 paralysed side if the patient is able to walk. The gait is usually that characteristic of hemi- plegia, but it may be much modified by tricks which the child acquires for the purpose of overcoming his difficulty. The greatest atten- tion must be paid to the peculiarities of voluntary movement and to the contractures, since it is by the persistent treatment of these by training and surgical procedures that admirable results may be obtained in patients who when untreated never improve. There is almost invariably marked stunting of growth on the affected side, involving the half of the body up to the middle line. Such stunting is present even in cases where the paralysis has almost entirely disappeared. There is most stunting of growth in the most paralysed parts. The difference between the two sides is often very obvious when the scapulae and the two sides of the pelvis are compared. The shortness of the structures on one side of the body, especially of the lower limb, are responsible in part for the scoliosis, tilting of the pelvis, and dropping of the foot. When athetosis is present, however, the muscles in- volved in the spontaneous movement may be actually hypertrophied. The cranium, when asymmetrical, is usually smaller on the side corresponding to the cerebral lesion, and such deformity is accounted for by the non- occurrence of growth in the diseased cerebral hemisphere. Rarely the bone may be absent over the seat of the lesion, and a rounded aperture, through which the cerebral pulsation may be felt, may be present. According as the damage to the bi'ain is widely spread or not, and the prae-frontal lobes more or less affected, infantile hemiplegia may be associated with every degree of mental impairment from idiocy to the slightest mental impairment. Nearly all cases show some in- tellectual deficiency on reaching puberty; but whether this is always due to the cerebral lesion, or sometimes to the lack of training that infirmity and backwardness entail, is not clear, for it is certain that by careful training in childhood it may be reduced in some cases to an unimportant amount. Mental failure is generally severe in cases where recurrent con- vulsions become established epilepsy. Recurring convulsions are much more com- mon in infantile than in adult hemiplegia. Such convulsions usually date from the occurrence of the hemiplegia, but they may not occur till months or years after. The convulsions may be general; more fre- quently they are confined to the afi'ected side, and are then more common in left than in right hemiplegia. The onset is generally deliberate, often strictly local in its commencement, and consciousness is lost late. There may be transient increase of the paralysis after each attack. Aff'ections of the special senses, hemianopsia and hemiansesthesia, do not occur as lasting symptoms. Internal strabismus is not rare, otherwise the cranial nerves are unaffected. The sphincters are not affected. Slight trophic changes in the skin of the peripheral parts of the affected limbs are sometimes present, and in some degree vaso-motor paralysis is common. The superficial reflexes are generally dimin- ished upon the hemiplegic side, and the plantar reflexes on that side are of the extensor type; this extensor reflex is always marked where a pes cavus is present, but sometimes when there is a dropped foot, with toes rigid in the flexed position, a flexor type of reflex obtains. The tendon reflexes are exaggerated upon the affected side, and foot clonus is obtainable. Rigidity may, however, cause these signs to be difficult of elicitation. The knee-jerk upon the sound side is often more brisk than normal. Prognosis.—In the rarest event only is in- fantile hemiplegia fatal immediately after its onset, otherwise it has no tendency to destroy life nor to shorten life, except that the subjects of the malady offer less resistance, perhaps, to intercurrent diseases than do healthy children. Many cases improve rapidly, and the paralysis may leave slight clumsiness in moving the arm or leg, or recurring unilateral convulsions, as the only sign of its previous existence. Where lasting paralysis, rigidity, and contracture exist, slow improvement is still the rule, and it is difficult to say when such improvement is likely to cease, as cases go on improving long after puberty, especially if treatment be properly carried out. Mental impairment renders the prognosis of amelioration hopeless in proportion to its severity, as the re-education of movement upon which recovery greatly depends becomes impossible. Cases where athetosis exists never regain useful movement in the part where the spon- taneous movement occurs. Athetosis involves total permanent disablement in the region jof its distribution. Recurring convulsions render the prognosis worse in proportion to their fre- quency, persistency, and tendency to temporarily increase the paralysis; further, such attacks are not infrequently associated with progressive mental deterioration. The probability of im- provement is greater at a period close to the onset than at one more remote. If there be even the slightest voluntary power in all parts of a limb, however chimsy the movement, the probability that a useful working limb will result is great if treatment can be adequately carried out. If with a fair degree of intelligence present a child with infantile hemiplegia can walk at all, it may be safely said that he will walk well ultimately if treatment be properly carried out. Much, however, depends upon the treatment, which, as it is difficult, laborious.283 PARALYSIS and of long duration, is too often abandoned or even unattempted, and the few years following the onset of the disease being neglected, the lapse of time places an impassable barrier before the efforts of the physician. Contractions and deformities do not in themselves influence prognosis. Cases presenting slight mental impairment may improve considerably in this respect. The amount of impairment can only be judged by the progress made under the influence of careful education of a special kind. Pathology.—Since infantile hemiplegia has little tendency to be fatal at an early period pathological examination has been confined almost entirely to periods long after the onset of the disease, when, from the occurrence of some secondary process (sclerosis, cyst forma- tion, etc.), it is difficult to correctly surmise the nature of the initial morbid process. The condition found at these is shrinking and atrophy of the convolutions of a limited area of the brain. These convolutions are small and hard to finger, the sulci between them are widened, the sclerosed area being sunk below the level of the general surface of the hemi- sphere. After the removal of the membranes the surface of the atrophied area presents an appearance which may be likened to that of a walnut kernel. There is always compensatory increase of the subarachnoid fluid over this area, and frequently a compensatory dilatation of the lateral ventricle beneath. Often associated with this atrophic lobar sclerosis is cystic for- mation, and the term porencephaly has been applied to the condition. There are several varieties of the cystic condition. There may be a local complete absence of the wall of the ventricle, the subarachnoid space being con- tinuous with the cavity of the ventricle, or the ventricle wall may consist only of the lining membrane of the ventricle and the pia-arachnoid, or lastly, a smooth-walled cyst may separate the ependyma from the pia-arachnoid. In some cases a single cyst in the substance of the hemi- sphere is found, with walls containing the products of the degeneration of blood pigment, and suggesting that the origin of such a cavity has been a haemorrhage. In the congenital cases a general hemiatrophy of the brain, with little sclerosis, is present. In atrophic lobar sclerosis the microscopic appearances are disappearance of the nerve elements and increase of the neuroglial elements wath the presence of many spider cells. The vessels present no conspicuous change. The initial morbid processes which lead to these results are not certain. It must be re- membered that the infantile brain does not react in the same way to injury as does the adult brain. A lesion which in the adult would produce a softening, produces atrophy and sclerosis in the child. Except in the congenital cases (hemiatrophy of brain) where develop- mental arrest is caused by some as yet imknown lesion, and in cases dating from birth injury, where there is local traumatic destruction of cerebral tissue, it seems probable than an initial vascular lesion is present. Thrombosis of superficial veins of the cerebrum, thrombosis of the superior longitudinal sinus, multiple throm- bosis of small arteries, have undoubtedly been the initial lesions in isolated cases. Polioencephalitis, embolism of the middle cerebral artery, and cerebral haemorrhage have been found present, but only in cases where the clinical aspect has been somewhat different to that usual in infantile hemiplegia. A vascular thrombosis, therefore, appears to be the most probable initial lesion, but we are entirely ignorant of the pathological process which is responsible for such a lesion. It is probable, however, that this is peculiar and entirely distinct from the processes imderlying throm- bosis in the adult. Diagnosis.—The disease may be distinguished from the other chief cause of spastic paralysis of hemiplegic distribution—intracranial tumour —by its rapid onset and slow amelioration, and by the absence of headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis. The not uncommon absence of this last sign in glioma situated in the pons Varolii must be borne in mind. The fact that the paralysis is strictly unilateral separates this disease from cerebral diplegia, and there is neither optic atrophy nor a familial tendency to the disease in infantile hemiplegia. The rapid muscular wasting, loss of the deep reflexes, and absence of Faradic excitability in the muscles, easily distinguish the rare cases of anterior poliomyelitis where the distribution is unilateral, affecting both arm and leg, and the paralysis severe. Treatme7it.—Since in the early stage of the disease its nature is only manifest when im- provement begins and the hemiplegia becomes manifest, the treatment at this period is that of acute illness in general—rest and careful nursing. The subsequent treatment which should be commenced as earlj^ as the physical state will allow, should at first be massage to the paralysed limbs. Electrical treatment is to be avoided, as children are as a rule so frightened by its application that the advantage gained from it is more than counterbalanced. Directly some power is regained, every attention should be paid to the re-education of the returning movement by physical exercise of the faulty limbs. In order to direct volition to the para- lysed side it is sometimes advantageous to con- fine the upper limb of the sound side. Such physical exercises are almost impossible where there is much mental backwardness and lack of attention, and these deficiencies must be as far as possible removed by special education. Where considerable improvement has been at-284 PARALYSIS tained, if the child has reached a suitable age, exercises in front of a mirror are often useful, for he is able to see for himself errors of position and movement, and strives to correct them. Where treatment has been neglected and con- tractures have arisen, excellent results are generally obtained by tenotomy, followed shortly by passive movements, and subsequently by exercises. From the way in which the defor- mities arise, it is at once clear that the prolonged use of rigid appliances for their correction is useless. The treatment, in all but the slightest cases, must be prolonged over years, often many years, and its application requires the greatest patience and devotion; but except in those cases where mental impairment remains severe, the ultimate result is excellent. Too often, however, from neglect or from inability to procure the necessary means of treatment, the patient with infantile hemiplegia remains hopelessly crippled. After adult life is reached little further improvement can be expected. Infantile Spastic Paraplegia of Spinal Origin.—Spastic paraplegia in children, due to a lesion of the spinal cord, is most frequently due to compression of the cord as the result of spinal caries. Apart from this cause the con- dition is somewhat rare. It is occasionally produced by the pressure of neoplasms arising in the bony structures of the vertebral column or in the meninges, and it sometimes results from spina bifida. Injuries to the spinal column during birth give rise to paraplegia, and to this group of cases the term " obstetrical paralysis " has been given. Lastly, it may be a result of acute myelitis. The symptomatology does not differ from that of spastic paraplegia in adults, except that distortion and deformities of the limbs and trunk are more marked, since the spasm acts during the period of most active growth and upon less resistant structures. Diagnosis.—The distinction of spastic para- plegia of spinal origin from the paraplegic form of cerebral diplegia is most important and often somewhat difficult. The history of the appear- ance of the symptoms, their non-progressive character, the preponderance of rigidity over loss of power and the presence of mental impair- ment, recurring convulsions, and strabismus are the signs by which a cerebral lesion should be recognised. The pi-esence of local spinal symp- toms, pain, tenderness, deformity, or of the signs of spina bifida ; the presence of antesthesia and sphincter trouble, and a progressive character of the symptoms, should distinguish paraplegia of spinal origin. In paraplegia due to spi7ial caries the distinctive signs of the latter con- dition may be almost completely absent when the disease affects the upper dorsal spine, for as this is the least mobile part of the vertebral column, rigidity in this situation is not easily detectable. Deformity may be absent, and the pain caused by movement and jarring of the spine so slight as to seem negligible. A further difficulty in diagnosis arises as the symptoms may for a long time be confined to motor structures and complete spastic paraplegia, without a trace of antesthesia or of sphincter trouble, may persist for weeks without the latter symptoms becoming manifest. In these cases, however, careful observation over a considerable length of time will generally reveal the nature of a condition present. Spinal tumours for the most part present little difficulty in diagnosis. The majority of them being malignant and of rapid growth, are characterised by severe pains, radiating along the distribution of the nerve roots of the involved area, with a subsequent rapid and progressive onset of spastic paraplegia, later anaesthesia, and at last, when the pressure is sufficient to entirely abrogate the physiological conductivity of the cord, the paraplegia becomes a flaccid one. Such tumours are most frequently sarco- mata, rarely myxomata or lipomata. In the so-called "obstetrical paralysis" there is almost always the history of breech delivery, with difficulty in the passage of the shoulders or the after-coming head, to overcome which vigorous traction upon the trunk has been used. This may produce either fractured dislocation of the cervical or upper thoracic vertebrse, or subluxation with haemorrhage into or around the spinal cord. Frequently the diagnosis is aided by the presence of atrophic palsy, limited to the distribution of some nerve roots of the brachial plexus on one or both sides, the anterior roots being injured by the traction upon the vertebral column. In such injuries the lesion of the spinal cord is often complete, so that a complete flaccid paralysis results. Deformity of the vertebral column is not often present, for the fractures may become reduced after the damage to the spinal cord has occurred. If the spinal cord be injured above the fourth cervical segment, death ensues almost instantaneously from paralysis of the respiratory muscles. The diagnosis of paraplegia, due to spina bifida, only presents difficulty when the spina bifida is occult. The weakness of the lower ex- tremities here dates from the time when walking is learnt, and is as a rule slight. Peculiar deformities of the feet and trophic changes may be met with. A careful examination of the vertebral column, which will reveal absence of the spines and perhaps of the laminae at some spot, a tuft of hair or najvus in the mid-line of the lumbar region, may at once suggest the diagnosis. Acute myelitis is a rare condition in children, and occurs usually from the age of six years to puberty. Congenital syphilis may be present. The onset and clinical aspect resemble the same disease in adults, and the diagnosis presents no difficulty.285 PARALYSIS Treatment.—See Spinal Caries, Spinal Tumour, Spina Bifida, Acute Myelitis, etc. Subacute Combined Degeneration of the Cord.—Definition.—Under this title a disease of the spinal cord has been described in which tracts of different function are concomitantly affected, and in which a definite train of symp- toms occur which render the diagnosis of the disease during life a comparatively easy matter. The word subacute should distinguish this affection from others in which tracts of different function are concomitantly affected, since they are all more chronic in their course. Etiology.—The age at which the disease most commonly occurs is during the fourth and fifth decades of life, although not a few cases have been reported both in older and younger people. Women appear rather more liable to the affection that men, although the difference of incidence in the two sexes is not marked. Heredity seems to play no part in the etiology of the disease, and as a rule the patients have been in good health until its onset. The affection has followed on acute infec- tions, such as influenza, and it has also occurred after prolonged diarrhoea and long-continued suppuration. Syphilis can almost be excluded as an etio- logical factor, although it has been present in a few cases, and the same may be said of alcohol. Ansemia has been supposed to cause the disease, but on this question very different views have been expressed. There is no doubt that ansemia is one of the most common features late in the course of the affection, but it is by no means always present during the earlier stages, although in some cases it has been known to precede the onset of spinal symptoms by several years. The ascertained facts make it probable that the spinal cord changes and the ansemia are due to a common cause, rather than that the spinal cord changes are due to the ansemia. The blood does not, in the majority of cases, show the changes which occur in perniciovis ansemia, although in certain cases (estimated by Dana at 10 per cent) such a condition is un- doubtedly present. Onset and Course.—The onset of the disease is usually slow and insidious, but occasionally the symptoms may come on rapidly and may be ushered in by headache, vomiting, and pyrexia. The disease may with advantage be described as having three stages, but it must not be supposed that all cases conform in every detail to the following description :—The first stage is that of slight spastic paraplegia, with ataxia and marked subjective sensations in the lower limbs; the second stage is that of severe spastic paraplegia, with marked ansesthesia in the legs and trunk; and the third stage is one of complete flaccid paralysis of the lower limbs, with loss of all forms of sensation up to a varying level on the trunk. The duration of the above stages is subject to considerable variation; the first is usually long, lasting some fifteen months or more, but, exceptionally, it may be of quite short duration, viz., less than two months. The second also varies greatly in duration ; in some it lasts only a month, and in others it is prolonged over many mouths. The third is, as a rule, short, lasting only a few weeks, although in a few cases recorded it has lasted many months. It will be obvious from the above statement that no exact time limit can be fixed for the disease, although it usually runs its course in about two years. Symptoms.—During the first stage of the affection the earliest manifestations are sub- jective sensations of numbness and tingling in the toes and in the extremities of the fingers ; following on these sensory symptoms slight spasticity and ataxia develop, the legs feel stiff and cold, and there is some dragging of the toes. Girdle sensation and lightning pains may be complained of, and there may be considerable difficulty in walking in the dark and in standing with the eyes closed. There may be a little pain in passing water, but, as a rule, at this stage there is no incontinence of urine. On examination of the patient no ansesthesia, analgesia, or hypersesthesia can be determined; some loss of the sense of position may, however, be present, the gait is slightly spastic, and there is a tendency to stand with the legs wide apart so as to secure a wide base, and when the feet are placed close together and the eyes closed marked unsteadiness results. The act of attempting to pick up a pin is performed in a clumsy manner, and on attempt- ing to touch the tip of the nose with the first finger, the eyes being closed, lack of co-ordina- tion and intention tremor become evident. There is slight rigidity of the lower extremities, the knee-jerks are increased, ankle clonus may be present, and the plantar reflex gives the extensor response (Babinski's sign). The superficial reflexes are present and the myotatic irritability of the muscles is increased. The pupils react well to light and on accommo- dation. The transition from the first to the second stage of the disease is often rapid, and is marked by the patient losing the power to stand in the course of a few hours or days; the inability being due rather to the want of co-ordination in the muscles of the legs than to actual loss of power, for while lying in bed the patient is often able to move the legs with considerable power. Definite ansesthesia now becomes marked, commencing at first over the feet and lower portions of the legs, and gradually extending up the limbs, while sensation in the tips of the fingers also becomes affected. At this stage the impairment of sensation does not follow286 PARALYSIS a segmental distribution, but is rather of a peripheral type, the longest neurons being- affected both in the arms and legs. Sensation to all forms of impressions may now be gradu- ally lost to a variable height on the trunk, and the distribution of the anaesthesia becomes segmental in character. A girdle sensation in the mid-dorsal region is frequently complained of, and there may be severe intercostal pain, which may in rare cases be accompanied by herpes zoster and even by subcutaneous hsemorrhages in the distribution of a nerve root. During this stage the nutrition of the patient remains fairly good; the muscles do not waste to a marked degree, they retain their myotatic irritability, and they react normally to faradism and galvanism. Irregular rises of temperature frequently occur, and the patients are liable to attacks of diarrhoea. The knee-jerks are exaggerated, ankle clonus is present, the plantars give an extensor response, and all the superficial reflexes remain active in spite of the anaesthesia and analgesia. The sphincters are often unaffected. Exceptional symptoms that occur during this stage are weakness of one or other muscle of the eye, slight nystag- mus, and retinal htemorrhages; while unilatei-al paresis of one vocal cord has once been recorded. The mode of onset of the third stage is one of the most striking features of this disease: the spasticity formerly present is rapidly re- placed by flaccidity, a change that may occur in a few hours or a few days. The temperature always rises at the com- mencement of this stage, but it subsides when the flaccidity becomes fully established. The inability to perceive all forms of sensory im- pressions over the lower limbs and trunk now becomes absolute, and there is complete in- continence of urine and faeces. The knee-jerks are rapidly abolished, ankle clonus and patellar clonus disappear. The plantar reflex, however, still maintains its extensor character, and this, in association with the absent knee-jerk and flaccid paralysis, constitutes one of the most diagnostic featiu-es of the disease. The other superficial reflexes persist and are active. (Edema of the legs and trunk often occurs at this period. The muscles now rapidly waste, and if this stage is prolonged the wasting becomes extreme in the lower extremities, and the upper extremities become similarly affected at a later period. The muscles rapidly lose their faradic excita- bility, and the galvanic excitability is reduced, but there is no polar change such as is seen in complete reaction of degeneration. Delirium at night is common during the third stage, and the patient often has varied delusions, while convulsive attacks, which give rise to fine clonic movements, but without loss of conscious- ness, have been observed in some cases. The patient's condition at this stage is one of extreme asthenia. Cystitis frequently occurs, and bedsores have formed in nearly every case. Paralysis of the abdominal and lower intercostal muscles occurs during this stage, and the diaphragm becomes weak, and finally ceases to act. Death may then result from failure of respiration, or there may be sudden syncope. It may, however, happen that the patient lingers on in a condition of profound anaemia and sepsis, and dies of asthenia. Although the course of this disease, as above depicted, is in the main correct, yet there are some cases which do not follow such a definite course, and the lower extremities do not pass into the final flaccid stage, but remain rigid in a position of extreme flexion. Another class of case, again, is that in which the nervous symptoms manifest themselves in the course of severe anaemia which may have persisted with remissions for three to four years. In these cases it not infrequently happens that the final flaccid stage is never reached, the patients dying while the limbs are still spastic, and the impairment of sensations may be still limited to the periphery of the limbs, or some- times loss of the sense of position is the only sensory defect present. The condition of the blood from these cases varies considerably : in many of them it has the characters of a secondary anaemia; in other cases, however, the blood shows the characters which are usually associated with pernicious anaemia, for there are microcytes, macrocytes, nucleated and vacuolated red cells, and the percentage of haemoglobin is relatively high. Mo7-bid Anato7ny.—The condition of the body at the time of death depends upon the length of the third stage of the disease, for when this has been prolonged the body is usually extremely emaciated; when, however, death has occurred earlier the body is often fat. No naked-eye changes are visible in the brain or external surface of the spinal cord, nor in the membranes, but on section of the spinal cord the grey areas of degeneration in the posterior and antero-lateral tracts are plainly visible. The liver, which is usually enlarged, sometimes gives the free iron reaction, the kidneys not infrequently show a condition of septic infarcts or pyonephrosis secondary to the infection of the bladder, and the condition of the bone marrow varies considerably, in some cases being red and almost diffluent, while in others it is normal in appeai'ance. The morbid changes in the spinal cord are among the most constant features of the disease, varying only in degree with its duration. The stress of the disease falls upon the niid- dorsal region of the cord, and on examining sections from this level marked destruction of287 PARALYSIS the white matter is seen all round the periphery of the cord, while the grey matter and a small area of white matter immediately surrounding it remain practically normal. If from this point in the mid-dorsal region the process be traced up the cord, it is found that the general de- struction becomes gradually less, and instead of affecting all tracts alike tends to limit itself to the posterior columns, the dorsal and ventral cerebellar tracts, and the crossed pyramidal tracts. With regard to the affection of the posterior columns, the postero-internal (Goll) are much more affected than the postero-external (Burdach). But even in the cervical region, although the tracts above mentioned may be the most affected areas of the cord, yet the disease is not limited to them ; for scattered areas of degeneration are present, a favourite situation for these being in the ventral region of the cord in the position occupied by the direct pyramidal tracts and the neighbouring ground bundles. The degeneration of the posterior columns can be traced up to the posterior column nuclei, and that in the dorsal and ventral cerebellar tracts into the inferior cerebellar peduncle and velum respectively, although with regard to the latter tract the degeneration can only be traced by the Marchi method — a method which re- veals nerve fibres that are in a recent state of degeneration. The degeneration in the pyramidal tracts can only as a rule be traced as high as the middle of the pons, although in exceptional cases de- generate fibres can be found also in the internal capsule and corona radiata. Sections from the lumbar region of the cord show sclerosis of the posterior columns and of the crossed pyramidal tracts, while in the sacral region the degenera- tion is almost limited to the crossed pyramidal tracts; but although this is in the main true, even in this region, scattered areas of degenera- tion are present outside the limits of these tracts. The walls of the blood-vessels in the sclerotic areas are thickened, but little change can be seen in them outside the affected areas. Very little change can be found in the grey matter or in the cells of the anterior horns, in those of Clarke's column, or in those of the cerebral cortex. The anterior and posterior roots appear normal, as do the posterior root ganglia, with the exception of rare instances when changes have been found in them in connection with the occurrence of herpes or subcutaneous haemor- rhages. In cases that have reached an advanced stage considerable degeneration can be found in the nerves and marked atrophy of the muscle fibres, although in cases that come to autopsy earlier neither of these changes is present. Two distinct processes account for the changes found in the spinal cord : a focal destructive lesion and a system lesion. With regard to the first of these, an examina- tion of the margin of the areas of degeneration reveals that the earliest change is swelling of the meduUated sheath; within this outer zone the sheath can be seen undergoing fatty de- generation ; this in turn becomes absorbed, and at the same time the axis cylinders disappear and a space is thus formed. By the grouping and fusion of these spaces vacuolated areas are formed which are very characteristic of the focal destructive process. With regard to the second, viz., the system degeneration, the long tracts of the cord exhibit a degeneration similar to that found after a trans- verse lesion, and the tracts thus affected show a very definite sclerosis. The two processes merge very closely into one another, so that it is often difficult to say which is due to the focal lesion and which to the system lesion. It must not, however, be supposed that the degeneration is limited to the long afferent or efferent tracts of the cord, for it also affects fibres outide the region of these tracts. Pathology. — Various views have been ad- vanced as to the pathology of this affection: it has been thought by some that the cord changes were secondary to the anaemia; by others, that they were due to the occurrence of multiple haemorrhages; by others, again, to changes in the vessel walls. The view, however, which seems to be most in accordance with the symp- toms and pathological anatomy is that which attributes the condition to a toxic agent, which is jointly responsible for the changes in the spinal cord and for the anaimia. That the con- dition is, in part at all events, dependent on the vascular supply is shown by the fact that the degeneration is for the most part in the area of the cord supplied by the pial vessels. This, however, cannot be the only factor, and there is no doubt that the longer neurons tend to suffer more than those which are shorter. Neither of the above points, however, explains why the dorsal part of the cord is more liable to suffer than the cervical or lumbar regions. Diagnosis.—The disease is recognised by the character of its onset, the association of ataxia and spasticity, and its progressive course. The differential diagnosis, although a simple matter in the later stages, presents considerable diffi- culties in the earlier stages of the aftection. The two diseases with which it is most liable to be confused are tabes and disseminated sclerosis, and it will be well to deal with these first, and to afterwards consider the other affec- tions which may possibly give rise to errors in diagnosis. The symptoms during the earlier stages of the affection which suggest a diagnosis of tabes are ataxia and gii'dle pains, while in the later stages the loss of knee-jerk with flaccid paralysis of the lower limbs are those which bear the most striking resemblance to that disease. During the first stage the diagnosis depends288 PARALYSIS upon the spastic condition of the legs, the ex- aggerated knee-jerks, the presence of ankle clonus, and the absence of the Argyll-Robertson pupil phenomenon. In the later stages when the knee-jerks are absent, the complete loss of power of movement in the legs, the absence of the pupil phenomenon, and the presence of an extensor response as the plantar reflex, together with the history of a previous spastic stage, make the diagnosis clear. The symptoms that most closely resemble those of disseminated sclerosis are the slight nystagmus, ataxia, and spasticity, and the differ- ential diagnosis has to be based rather on an aggregate of small points than on any one symptom. The subjects of disseminated sclerosis are as a rule younger, usually between twenty and thirty rather than between thirty and forty, as in the case of subacute combined degeneration ; remission of symptoms frequently occurs, nystagmus is more pronounced, and the sphincters are usually affected early. On the other hand, the slight affection of the arms while the legs are markedly affected, the presence of girdle and lightning pains, and the symmetrical affection of all four limbs, are points in favour of subacute combined degeneration. In distinguishing the disease from peripheral neuritis it is only during the third stage that any difficulty is liable to arise, and then, apart from a definite history of a spastic stage, the incontinence of urine, the angesthesia of the trunk, the girdle pain, and the extensor response of the plantar reflex are sufficient to exclude the peripheral affection. The diagnosis from acute myelitis is by no means easy in the absence of a distinct history of a gradual onset. A rapid onset of symptoms with early occm-rence of bladder trouble, marked pain and tenderness in the back on bending the head forward, absence of any affection of the arms, greater disturbance of temperature, more rapid wasting of muscles, and complete loss of reflexes, would all be in favour of myelitis. Nevertheless, certain cases of acute myelitis very closely resemble those of combined de- generation of the cord. A tiunour involving the spinal cord and giving rise at first to a spastic paraplegia, followed by flaccid paralysis, might suggest the possibility of a combined degeneration of the cord, but the presence of severe radiating root pain, complete absence of any affection of the arms, and the early onset of bladder symptoms, would all be in favour of the diagnosis of tumour. Prognosis.—The disease in most cases runs a steadily progressive course from its onset to its termination in two to three years ; in certain cases, however, it has run through its various stages in less than six months; improvement occasionally takes place, but is not as a rule long maintained. Treatment.—Treatment has almost no influ- ence on the course of the disease, except in so far as the anaemia is concerned, which will often improve on the administration of arsenic and iron. Bedsores are almost certain to form during the third stage of the disease in spite of the most careful nursing. Cystitis, which not infrequently occurs, is not as a rule severe, and yields to the ordinary treatment. II. Flaccid Paralysis Family Periodic Paralysis.—Definition.— A disease occurring in families and character- ised by attacks of widespread flaccid paralysis, with loss of reflexes and electrical excitability of the muscles, without sensory, vesical, rectal, or psychic disturbance, and with intervals of perfect health. Historical. — The first case of this disease was described by Cavare, in 1853, in a woman aged twenty-four, who had several attacks of generalised paralysis. In 1876, Hart wig pub- lished a case of intermittent spinal paralysis in a patient aged twenty-three. In 1885, West- phal brought the condition prominently forward in a paper "On an Unusual Case of Periodic Paralysis of all Four Extremities, with simul- taneous Loss of the Electrical Excitability during the Paralysis." The case was that of a boy aged twelve years, in whom the attacks began with weakness in the legs; after a short time the arms and legs wei'e completely para- lysed and flaccid, the knee-jerks were not ob- tainable, and the electrical examination showed quantitative diminution to both galvanism and faradism. The following day improvement took place, and gradually became complete. On this case he says: " This relative rapid loss and return of electrical irritability in the nerves and muscles is without parallel. We know neither a disease of the spinal cord nor of the nerves in which anything of the like nature has been observed; even physiology fails to explain such a condition." Then followed a series of papers by Goldflam, Oppenheimer, and others, while in 1898 Taylor of Harvard published a case of a boy in whose family the disease could be traced for five generations. To this is appended an admirable digest of the subject up to that date. Etiology. — The age at which the disease most frequently occurs is between the second and third decade of life, but a few cases occur during the first decade, and also during the later periods of life. It would seem probable, therefore, that the affection owes its origin to certain conditions prevalent in youth. Both sexes are equally affected, and the malady is transmitted through the female as well as through the male line. The distinct disposition of the disease to affect various members of a family, and to pass from parent to child, is abundantly proved by the published cases ; for out of 54 cases recordedPARALYSIS 289 35 occurred in three families, while the remain- ing 19 were either sporadic or associated with one other case in the same family. On the other hand, the families in which the disease occurs are not of a degenerate type, nor un- usually subject to neuroses; in fact, Taylor states that the disease occurs in families of unusual nervous stability. In Craft's case, how- ever, there was a distinct neuropathic family history. The periodicity of the disease, the fact that malaria has been present in certain cases, and that the attacks have yielded to quinine, have led some observers to suggest that the condition is malarial in origin. There is, however, little evidence to show that the association of the two affections has been more than a coincidence, and the plasmodium has never been found in the blood from a case of periodic paralysis. The attacks often follow on muscular exertion, though this is by no means always the case, for some patients have attacks more frequently while at rest than when at work. In some cases certain articles of diet seem to have had the effect of producing an attack. Certain peculiarities in the physical develop- ment have been noted, and among these a condition of muscular hypertrophy, which did not correspond with the muscular strength. Symptom?..—The following may be taken as a general description of an attack which com- monly commences at night. If the patient is awake a feeling of weakness is experienced in the limbs. The loss of power begins in the proximal muscles of the legs, gradually passes to those more distal, and then affects the ab- dominal and intercostal muscles; but before the paralysis in these becomes complete it involves the proximal muscles of the arms, and then the distal muscles, the limbs becoming absolutely flaccid and powerless, and respiration being carried on by the diaphragm alone. Occa- sionally the face may be affected, and some of the other cranial nerves may be involved, but in most of the described cases the muscles of the face and jaw have escaped. There is no difficulty in articulation, and there is no incontinence of urine or faeces. There is no mental disturbance and no pain. The appetite is often lost, but there is no digestive dis- turbance, nor is there any difficulty in swallow- ing, nor does the patient experience dyspnoea. After the attack has reached its maximum, which it usually does in three to four hours, recovery begins to take place slowly, following the reverse order to that of the onset of the paralysis, i.e. the legs are the last to recover. The period of recovery is about the same length as the period of onset. In other cases the duration of the whole attack is longer, and in Taylor's case the patient who awoke paralysed in the morning did not begin to recover till the afternoon of the same day, VOL. VII and recovery was only complete on the following morning. Reflexes.—During the most profound stage of the attack all the deep reflexes are lost, and return as the motor power is restored to the limbs. The superficial reflexes are also gener- ally lost, but in some of the reported cases the abdominal and plantar reflexes have been present. In the intervals of health the reflexes are present and normal. Electrical Changes.—One of the most striking features of this disease is the loss of electrical excitability, which is to be noted on the examination of the muscles. In the free inter- vals the muscles have generally been found to give a quick and normal response both to the faradic and galvanic current. Both Goldflam and Taylor have, however, found diminished excitability in certain muscles even during the free interval, and also that the muscles undergo rapid fatigue. At the height of an attack there is complete loss of reaction, both to faradic and galvanic stimulation, and as recovery of motor power takes place the reaction to faradism and galvanism returns. A quantitative diminution in the reaction of the muscles of the face has also been observed. The muscles lose their mechanical irritability during the height of the attack, while they respond to a like stimulus during the free interval. Sensation remains perfectly normal during an attack, and there is no vaso-motor disturbance. The rectal and vesical functions remain normal; there is neither incontinence nor retention of urine, although the patient may not micturate for thirty-six hours. This lack of desire to micturate is probably due to diminished secretion, as there is no distension of the bladder. The bowels do not act during an attack. The temperature is practically unaffected during an attack. The pulse and respiration may both be slightly increased in rate, but not to any marked degree. Nothing abnormal can be detected in the lungs. In the heart, however, it has been noted that there is slight enlargement during an attack, and that a murmur indicative of mitral regurgitation becomes audible. As the patient recovers this passes off. No temporary enlargement of the spleen or liver has been detected, and there is no intestinal distension. The examination of the blood during an attack shows a marked lymphocytosis, which in Taylor's case was present also during the free intervals. Lymphocytosis is said to be normal for a child of ten, but not for a man of twenty. The examination of the urine has shown nothing abnormal, although in Craft's case more detailed examination was made, and an 19PARALYSIS 290 increase of the ethereal sulphates found. He considers that this is what might be expected from the breaking up of toxic materials in the intestines and their elimination as sulphates. An ethereal extract was isolated from the stools in this case, and 1 gramme injected into rabbits and guinea-pigs produced a paralysis which gradually disappeared in forty-eight hours. The nature of this poison has not been ascertained. Duration and Frequency of Attacks. — The length of the attacks varies considerably, but may be said to last between ten and forty-eight hours. The frequency of the attacks also varies greatly, and at times they may occur almost daily, in other cases they may be repeated every week or month, while in others there may not be more than one attack a year. Patients with this affection are probably subject to attacks during the whole of their life; on the other hand, in Taylor's family the attacks were said to grow less frequent as life advanced, and finally to have disappeared entirely between forty and fifty. Morbid Anatomy.—No post-mortem has been made on any one of these cases, and it is hardly to be expected that any change gross enough to be visible by the present microscopical methods would be found. Small pieces of muscle have been removed and examined microscopically, and increased diameter of individual fibres, vacuolation, and waxy degeneration have been found. Pathology.—The pathology of the disease is most obscure, as Westphal says: "We know neither a disease of the spinal cord nor of the spinal nerves in which anything of like nature has been observed." It has been suggested that a poison similar in action to curare is formed within the body, but even in curare poisoning the muscle retains its mechanical irritability. Even if one accepts the theory that the condition is produced by some auto- toxin, such as has been found to be present in the stools by Craft, and on injection into animals gave rise to a transient paralysis, one is still in a difficult position to explain on what part of the nervous or muscular system such a poison acts. It can hardly be a general muscular poison acting directly on the muscles, for then one would not expect the muscles of the face to escape; and, again, the onset of the paralysis and its ascending character is strikingly like that seen in Landry's paralysis. On the other hand, if the toxin acts on the lower motor neurone, it is impossible to conceive how such a lesion could give rise so rapidly to such a profound change in the muscles that they should fail to respond both to a faradic and galvanic stimulus. The same objection applies to a periodic vascular disturb- ance of the cord, such as has been suggested by Westphal. If, then, one supposed the condition to be dependent on an autotoxin, the poison must be regarded as acting not only on the lower neurone, but also on the muscle directly; whether the vascular condition of the cord has any influence on the selective action, which the toxin seems to exert, must remain doubtful, but it seems not improbable that such a factor may, however, exert some such influence. Diagnosis.—In a case seen for the first time, and without a definite history of previous attacks, the diagnosis of Landry's paralysis might with justice be made; on the other hand, when the disease occurs in a typical form with a history of previous attacks, the diagnosis presents no difficulty. Some authors have allied the condition with the dystrophies, and the change found in the muscles and the permanent weakness of some groups of muscles, as described in certain cases, would seem to support such a suggestion. The course of the disease is, however, entirely against such a view. It has also been suggested that it is a condi- tion allied to congenital myotonia (Thomsen's Disease ; see vol. vi. p. 487). Prognosis.—The disease seems to have no tendency to diminish the duration of life. Most patients seem to be liable to attacks during the whole of their life, but in others a tendency to recover has been noted about middle life. Treatment.—No treatment is known which will produce any result. Quinine has been given in some cases with good effect, but in others it has had no influence. Landry's Paralysis.—Many writers now in- clude this affection, otherwise known as " acute ascending paralysis," in their accounts of peri- pheral neuritis, from which it is undoubtedly difficult to distinguish some of the cases. In like manner there may be a close resemblance to acute poliomyelitis ; but the clinical picture in other cases is so different from that of the ordinary forms of either of these affections, that until we have more proof that all the cases can be accounted for by peripheral neuritis or polio- myelitis, it is well to give this symptom-complex a separate description. Definition.—The characteristics of the malady have been supposed to be rapidly progressive motor paralysis, which usually commences in the lower extremities and mounts upwards, and which, when it reaches the muscles of respiration, causes death by asphyxia; the muscles preserve their nutrition, and respond normally on elec- trical stimulation, and cutaneous sensibility and tlie sphincters remain intact. Etiology.—Men are attacked a good deal more frequently than women, the relative proportion being about three to one. Although most common between the ages of twenty and forty, it oversteps these limits, and is met with both in older people and in children. In some cases291 PARALYSIS no cause can be discovered, while in others there has been reason to suspect toxic agents, such as are known to produce multiple neuritis. Not uncommonly, one of the acute specific fevers has been the immediate precursor, and septicaemia, the puerperal state, and syphilis, are among the known antecedents. The malady has followed severe exposure to cold in some cases, and it sometimes develops in persons addicted to alcoholic excess. Morbid Anatomy.—The disease may prove so rapidly fatal that it is not surprising that no anatomical lesions have been found to account for the clinical symptoms in some cases. Most of the cases of this kind are, however, of no value, as they were examined at a time when the histological techniqvie had not reached its present state of perfection. Nevertheless, no changes have been found in the peripheral or central nervous system in a few of the cases that have been examined by the aid of recent methods. In the great majority, however, definite changes of a degenerative character have been detected in some part of the peri- pheral motor neurones. Either the cells are affected in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, or nuclei of cranial nerves, or the axones in the anterior roots, or peripheral, spinal, or cranial nerves, show changes, or it may be that the whole peripheral neurone is altered. In addi- tion to the degenerative changes in the nerve elements, vascular changes may be present, and consist in engorgement of vessels, peri- vascular exudation, and minute haemorrhages. Bacteriological examinations have been made in several cases; in some with negative results, while in others the information derived cannot be regarded as definitely establishing a causal connection between the micro-organisms found 1 and the morbid changes present; moreover, the same microbe has not been found in all cases. Pathology.—The sudden onset and rapid evolution of the disease strongly suggest that the action of a toxic agent is responsible for the clinical manifestations, while the absence of anatomical lesions, in some cases, and the com- plete recovery of other patients, also support this view. Moreover, such changes as have been discovered in the central and peripheral nervous systems are such as commonly result from the action of known poisons such as alcohol and the like. There is nothing to suggest that the same poison is in action in all cases, and the meagre results of bacteriological examina- tion do not allow of the conclusion that the poison is of bacterial origin. Nevertheless, the circumstances under which many of the cases arise are strongly suggestive of this mode of origin of the disease in them, though in other cases known poisons of a different nature have existed, and may have caused the malady. In yet another group of cases the circumstances under which the affection occurs give us no clue as to the possible nature and source of the poison. If a toxic agent does produce the disease, it behaves very xnuch like lead, for it exercises a similar selective action in that it almost exclusively attacks the motor neui-ones. Symptoms.—The paralysis may be abrupt in its onset, or there may be premonitory symptoms lasting for some hours or days. In the majority of cases in which they occur the premonitory symptoms consist in subjective sensations such as numbness, tingling, formication, and the like, which especially affect the hands and feet; or vague, rheumatic-like pains may be felt about the trunk and in the limbs. In other cases the pains are sharper, and tend to shoot along the course of the nerves, and there may even be tenderness of the muscles of the calves. With or without such sensory disturbances there may be a feeling of lassitude and general weakness, or it is noticed that a short walk induces unusual and undue fatigue, so that the legs perhaps feel heavy. In some cases there has been sweating of the feet and hands, or the extremities have been cold or even livid. Whether ushered in by these premonitory symptoms or not, the most prominent symptom of the actual attack is motor paralysis, which usually commences in the lower extremities, and one limb commonly becomes weak before the other. Standing and walking quickly be- come impossible, and in a few hours or days all movements of the lower extremities, even as the patient lies in bed, are impossible; the limbs lie like helpless logs, and there is marked dropped foot on both sides. The trunk muscles next become involved, so that the patient is unable to rise into the sitting posture or even to turn over in bed. Now, or even sooner, the arms begin to become weak; a certain amount of clumsiness in using the fingers is the first defect noted, but the weakness may spread up the limbs until they become as completely paralysed as the lower extremities. Indeed, in some cases, otherwise typical of the class under consideration, the weakness has com- menced in the upper limbs, and the lower extremities have subsequently been attacked. The neck muscles become weak in some cases, so that the patient cannot turn the head from side to side, or raise it from the pillow. The intercostal muscles become weak, and respira- tion largely diaphragmatic ; but the diaphragm may become paralysed before the intercostals. When the diaphragm and intercostals are both paralysed there may still be a brief struggle for life, owing to the action of the extraordinary muscles of respiration. Paralysis in the distribution of some of the motor cranial nerves occui'S in a considerable proportion of cases, and the most common defect noticed is some articulatory difficulty of speech owing to weakness of the lips and tongue, and the speech may have a nasalPARALYSIS 292 quality owing to weakness of the palate. Diffi- culty in swallowing is also a common symptom, and may be so pronounced that the patient has to be fed by the stomach tube. All degrees of defect of phonation have been described up to complete aphonia, but most often there is only slight weakness of the voice, which may be accounted for by weakness of the muscles of respiration, or the voice may be hoarse or squeaky owing to weakness of the laryngeal muscles. Paralysis of the facial muscles on one or both sides, weakness of the muscles of mastication, and even affection of the ocular muscles, with ptosis and strabismus occur, and the pupils may be unequal and defective in their action. The paralysis is unaccompanied by any spasticity in the muscles; on the contrary, there is the most absolute flaccidity. Such patients may die while their muscles are still well nourished, and at a time when the elec- trical reactions are normal. This, however, entirely depends on the length of time that has elapsed between the onset of the illness and the time of death—a period that is insuffi- cient, in most cases, to allow the muscles to waste appreciably, or respond in an abnormal manner on electrical excitation. When the patients do not die, or when they recover partially or completely, some of the affected muscles waste, and show the partial or complete reaction of degeneration. With the onset of flaccid paralysis the tendon- jerks are rapidly abolished, and in the fatal cases the knee-jerks remain absent up to the time of death. With recovery, however, all the tendon-jerks return, though the knee-jerks as a rule remain absent for a long time. The sphincters usually escape entirely, and in some cases in which there appears to be retention of urine this is probably due to defect in expulsive power consequent on weakness of the abdominal muscles, which also, no doubt, accounts in some measure for the obstinate constipation that may be present. In quite exceptional cases paralysis of both sphincters, and in consequence incontinence of urine and faeces, has been observed. In the large majority of cases there are no sensory defects other than the subjective sensa- tions that may occur as premonitions of the attack, and which may persist after definite motor paralysis has supervened. The most delicate methods of testing sensibility usually fail to determine any anaesthesia ; but in a few cases that appear to belong to the class under consideration, slight blunting of sensibility has been detected, while in some anaesthesia of a more pronounced character has been described. Hypertesthesia of the skin and muscles has also been occasionally met with, and even definite tenderness along the course of the nerve trunks has been observed. The patient usually remains absolutely clear in intellect, so that it is exceptional to meet with psychical disturbance. Whether the onset of the malady is attended with rise of temperature or not, there is always some febrile disturbance in the final stages which immediately precede death, at which time there is also increased frequency of pulse. The urine occasionally contains albumin. The spleen is enlarged in some cases, and this has been re- garded as in favour of the view that the disease is toxic in origin. Diagnosis : Polyneuritis.—As the resemblance between acute ascending paralysis and poly- neuritis is sufficiently close to lead some ob- servers to consider that the affections are identical, it naturally follows that the possibility of distinguishing the one from the other is not always easy, and it becomes almost impossible if we are to admit that cases in which there is blunting of sensibility may, nevertheless, belong to the former class. The presence of definite ansesthesia, and the fact that the paralysis attacks the superior as well as the inferior extremities, and spreads up the limbs to the trunk, instead of passing through the trunk before the upper limbs become affected, are the chief points that help us in arriving at a decision. Poliomyelitis, as usually met with, is random in distribution, and does not preserve the symmetry observed in acute ascending paralysis; nevertheless, some of the cases that present all the features of the latter affection in their earlier stages are subsequently left much in the same condition as is seen in severe and ex- tensive poliomyelitis. Myelitis. — In ascending myelitis all the functions of the cord suffer, so that in addition to the motor paralysis there is marked blunting of sensibility, a great tendency to trophic dis- turbances in the skin, and loss of control over the sphincters. Meningeal haemorrhage may cause ascending paralysis, but muscular spasm is a prominent feature, and the pain in the back is much more severe than anything experienced in Landry's paralysis. Prognosis.—The majority of the patients die from asphyxia consequent on paralysis of the muscles of respiration, or death may be due to cardiac failure when the disease attacks the medulla oblongata. A fatal termination is usually reached in about a week from the commencement of the illness, but some patients die within forty-eight hours. Less commonly the fatal issue is delayed until the end of the second, or it may even be the third or fourth week. Paralysis of the muscles of respiration or disturbed heart's action are symptoms of most serious import, as are any signs of bulbar affection. In some cases the disease becomes arrested and ultimately terminates in completePAEALYSIS 293 recovery, despite the fact that the arrest may not take place in some until the respiratory muscles are so weak that there is serious embarrassment of breathing, and the patient appears to be in great jeopardy. Convalescence may only last a few weeks, or it may be pro- longed to several months. In other cases, although the disease becomes arrested, there is unfortunately little or no recovery, and most if not all of the affected muscles remain per- manently paralysed or undergo atrophy. The forecast depends on what stage the ill- ness has reached before the patient is seen, and on whether the disease has become arrested or is still progressing. Prognosis as regards life depends on the degree of affection of the muscles of respiration, and on whether there is disturbed heart's action, or other evidence that the morbid process has attacked the medulla oblongata. Moreover, when the case is seen in the early stages a guarded prognosis must be given, for any of these untoward symptoms may, of course, become manifest later. The possibility of re- covery from the paralysis can only be estimated after the disease has become arrested, and a favourable opinion is then only justified when there are distinct signs of improvement within at least a few weeks of the arrest, for the out- look is hopeless when several months have elapsed without any, or but slight signs of recovery from the paralysis. Treatment.—If the case is seen early, mercu- rial inunction ought to be commenced at once, whether there is a syphilitic history or not, for this drug may reasonably be expected to influence other toxic blood states as well as that due to syphilis. Strychnia should be administered by subcutaneous injection—a pro- cedure that becomes imperative on the appear- ance of any signs of weakness of the muscles of respiration. Ergotiu has been recommended, and one patient improved so much while taking this drug that it deserves a trial in other cases. Hot or vapour baths have been recommended at the outset in cases that follow exposure to cold, and counter-irritation to the spine has also been supposed to be of service. The patient's strength has to be maintained by nutritious food, but care must be observed in its adminis- tration when there is difficulty of swallowing, so as to avoid choking or the impaction of food in the larynx. The difficulty in swallowing may be so great as to necessitate the use of the nasal tube. Care is needed not to overload the stomach, or induce flatulent distension, for either may seriously embarrass breathing when the muscles of respiration are weak. If the patient survive the acuter stages of the attack, all our efforts must afterwards be directed to keep up the nutrition by good food and cod-liver oil and malt preparations, and to prevent him from taking cold, for bronchitis and pneumonia readily prove fatal in consequence of the weak- ness of the muscles of respiration. The use of strychnia must be continued, though it may now be given by the mouth, and other tonics, such as iron, phosphorus, quinine, and arsenic, may be substituted from time to time. Local measures are of great value at this stage of the illness, for by massage and galvanism we may hope to improve the nutrition of the muscles that have already wasted, and to lessen the degree of atrophy in cases that are seen before this has become a prominent feature of the paralysis. III. Paralysis with Atrophy of Muscles {See also Muscles, Diseases of : vol. vi.) Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis.—Definition. —A disease of acute or sudden onset, occurring commonly in young children, and characterised by loss of power and usually subsequent wasting of the part affected, without loss of sensation or affection of sphincters. Etiology: Age.—By far the greater number of cases occur during the first three years of life, the greatest number during the second year. After the end of the third year the disease becomes less frequent, and after the age of six it may be considered rare ; cases, however, occur both in adult life and old age. Sejc..—This would seem to have no influence, since the disease occurs in about an equal number of cases in the two sexes. Seasonal Relationship.—That the disease is dependent on the season of the year is clearly shown by an analysis of the time of onset in a series of cases. The period of year in which the onset is most common is during the months of July and August. Starting from January, the curve remains low till the end of May or the beginning of June, when it rapidly rises, reaching its maximum in August, and then some- what suddenly falls to its mean in November. The period of onset thus corresponds with the months of greatest heat in England. Other Etiological Factors.—The relation of the disease to the acute specific fevers is one of extreme importance. It has been observed to follow scarlet fever, measles, whooping-cough, typhoid fever, pneumonia, diphtheria, and ma- laria, and the relationship has been too frequent to allow of doubt that there is some significance in the connection. Exposure to cold and damp is not infrequently the assigned cause, and in view of the pathology of the affection may certainly be regarded as important factors. Some cases have been noted to follow injury. The occurrence of the disease in an epidemic form is definitely established, since well-marked epidemics have been reported in various countries and in parts of the country which at other times have been perfectly free from the malady. In relation to this epidemic form must be noted the occurrence of febrile attacks andPARALYSIS 294 other forms of paralysis in members of the same family at or about the same time. A very interesting series of cases of this nature was recorded by Dr. Pasteur, in which two members of the family had definite anterior poliomyelitis, a third had an attack of hemiplegia, two others had febrile attacks without any paralysis, and two more had certain nervous manifestations, which rapidly passed oif in a few days; all these children were taken ill within a few days of one another. Thei'e is in nearly every case some infection, but the nature of that infection is not always the same; just as thrombosis is liable to occur after many different forms of infection, so infantile paralysis may follow in- fective processes of entirely different natures. This point will, however, be dealt with more detail in the discussion of the pathology of the disease. Symptoms: Acute Stage.—The onset of the disease is sudden. Sometimes the child goes to bed well and wakes at night screaming with pain, and if the little patient is old enough it may be able to indicate that the pain is in one or other limb, or in the back. The child resents all movements of the limb. The tem- perature is raised, vomiting may occur, there is general malaise, and the onset may even be accompanied by convulsions. Possibly the more common history is that the child is taken ill with slight febrile symptoms, there is headache, vomiting, possibly some diarrhoea, and pain in the back; the child is kept in bed for a day or so, and then it is noticed that one or more limbs are paralysed. Another form of onset is described by some authors in which, without any disturbance of health, there is sudden and complete loss of power in one or more limbs, the temperature is not raised, and there appears to be no pain. Siich an onset would seem to us to be of greater rarity than has been stated by some, viz., 25 per cent. In some cases there is a sudden onset of para- lysis which may persist for a few days, and which then rather rapidly clears up so as to leave no trace of weakness. In other cases the onset has been more gradual, so that the height of the paralysis is not reached for two to three weeks, while in others again there is the sudden onset followed by some improvement, and then after some days an extension of the paralysis. These last two forms are more frequently seen in the adult than in the child. Temperature. — The temperature generally rises rapidly to between 102° and 103° ; it remains high for a day or two, and then falls in about a week to the normal. This is by no means always the case, for sometimes the temperature will remain elevated for three to four weeks, especially if the limb continues to be painful on movement. Pain is commonly present during the onset of the disease; it is as a rule referred to the limb affected, and rapidly passes off, so that in a few days' time the leg can be passively moved in all directions without pain. Sometimes the pain is referred to the neck, and may occasion some rigidity of the muscles in this region. In other cases pain on move- ment persists for a considerable time, often for some three to four weeks. Sensation.—Although pain may be referred to the limb, yet on examination no alteration in tactile or painful impressions can be made out. Cases have been recorded in which such alterations have been present, but they are uncommon, and there is no doubt that in the majority of cases no such alteration exists even during the acute stage. Loss of Power.—The extent of the paralysis usually reaches its maximum in twenty-four to forty-eight hours from the onset of the illness, in some cases within a few hours. At such a period the child may be paralysed in all four extremities, and also in the thoracic and ab- dominal muscles, respiration being carried on by the diaphragm alone ; on the other hand, it may be limited to one limb. The amount of the paralysis during the acute stage is always in excess of that at a later stage, so that a child who is paralysed in all four extremities during the acute stage may possibly at a later stage be only completely paralysed in one leg, with some weakness of the opposite limb, the arms having completely recovered—in fact they are often extremely well developed owing to their use for progression. The paralysis rarely extends to the cranial nuclei, but affection of the muscles of the face does sometimes occur. The sphincters also are rarely affected, but when the lesion is extensive and involves the lower sacral region both the sphincters may be affected. The character of the paralysis is always flaccid, and there is a complete absence of tonus in the muscles affected; it may be noted, how- ever, that there is sometimes a certain amount of rigidity in groups of muscles represented in segments adjacent to those actually involved. Reflexes.—During this acute stage all the reflexes, both superficial and deep, are abolished in those parts of the body that are affected. The second stage of the disease is reached when the acute febrile state has passed and the transient paralysis, which may have affected all four extremities, has cleared up, leaving certain muscles of one or more limbs paralysed. Wasting of the muscles now genei-ally becomes manifest, but it should be remembered that the atrophy which they undergo is not always obvioTis, and that in infants who are fat very little difference in measurement can be detected between the two limbs, although the one is flaccid and the other is firm and is movedPARALYSIS 295 normally. Owing to the complete loss of tone in the musclevS, the limb often hangs in a pendulum-like manner, and swings to and fro as the position of the body is altered. On electrical examination of the muscles at this stage it is found that they give the reaction of degeneration, i.e. they react very slightly, if at all, to faradic stimulation, and briskly to a galvanic current, the ACC being greater than the KCC. Fibrillary tremors are occasionally to be noted in the muscles, but they are not common. In reference to the statement made above that the atrophy of the muscle is not always obvious, it is important to bear in mind that at the time of life when a child begins to lose its excessive fat it is noticed that the leg is wasting, and therefore the disease is considered to be progressive, whereas this is not really the case. The temperature of the affected limb is markedly lowered even during the early stages of the disease ; the limb not only feels cold and is of a blue colour, but the actual temperature is some degrees below that of the normal limb. During this stage, although atrophy of the muscles is taking place, return of power is also in progress. Those muscle fibres that were represented in the cord by cells which have been completely destroyed, undergo atrophy, whereas other cells to which the damage was slighter recover, and the muscle fibres in con- nection with them also recover. In some cases the recovery of muscular power is comparatively rapid, and in a month or so there is good return of power; in others it is a much more gradual process, and may be prolonged over a year or more. It is during this stage that contracture takes place, and the factor that chiefly influences the production of such deformities is the extent of implication of any group of muscles; for in- stance, if all the muscles below the knee are completely paralysed very little deformity takes place, but if the anterior tibial group are con- siderably affected (as not infrequently happens) while the gastrocnemius is but little affected, then the foot tends to assume the position of talipes equinus; on the other hand, if the gastrocnemius is affected while the anterior tibial group are not paralysed, then there results a position of talipes calcaneiis. The knee-jerk is absent or present according to whether the quadriceps, and especially the vastus internus muscle, is or is not involved. The third stage of the disease is reached when there is neither further atrophy nor further recovery of power. The growth of the limb is impaired, so that as the child grows the affected limb becomes relatively shorter than the sound limb. The bones are thinner, the skin is soft and loose on the subcutaneous tissue, but the hair is normal, and it is stated that the erector muscles of the hair are also unaffected. Sometimes the growth of the limb is so much inhibited that it remains in a condition of com- plete atrophy, and as the individual grows it hangs down as an undeveloped appendage from the trunk. Owing to the shortening of one extremity it not infrequently happens that a condition of lateral curvature of the spine is produced, the pelvis becoming tilted so as to counteract the shortening of the limb. Following on the flaccidity of the muscles certain changes take place in the joints, the ligaments stretch, and the joint tends to fall away from its socket; this is especially well seen in the case of the shoulder-joint, and the head of the humerus can be felt to hang below the glenoid cavity. In the case of the knee-joint the stretching of the ligaments gives rise to a condition of genu recurvatum or genu valgum. If this condition be allowed to persist, changes take place in the surface of the joint so that they adapt them- selves to their new position. In this third stage the electrical excitability is so diminished in the paralysed muscles that they will no longer react either to faradism or to galvanism. The disease now remains stationary for years, and it may be for life; on the other hand, it must be noted that in a certain number of cases after the disease has been stationary for years progressive muscular atrophy begins to manifest itself, either in the limb originally affected or in one of the unaffected limbs. Di&trihution of the Paraly&is.—It is stated that the disease may give rise to paralysis of almost any muscle of the body; on the other hand, the seat of election is undoubtedly the muscles of the leg. Out of 595 cases of the disease collected by Allen Starr, in no less than 516 were one or both legs affected, i.e. 90 per cent. The muscles in the leg most commonly affected are the anterior tibial group; those least commonly affected in the limbs are the small muscles of the hands. The Production of Deformity.—The cause of the production of deformity has been a matter of some dispute. It is generally ascribed to the tonus which is present in the imaffected muscles; but some authors attribiite it to the force of gravity, together with the organic contraction whicii occurs in the affected muscles, and to the lack of development in the muscles and tendons while the osseous structures continue to grow in length. There is no doubt that all these factors have their influence, but in the deformities produced in the earlier stages of the disease it is certain that the most important factor is the effect of " tonus" in the normal or only partially paralysed muscles. This fact is well illustrated in the contrast there is between a case in whichPARALYSIS 296 all the muscles below the knee are paralysed, and one in which only one group is affected. In the former case there is simply flaccidity without deformity, while in the latter there is well-marked talipes equinus, or talipes calcaneus, according to which group of muscles is paralysed. It is the occurrence of this form of deformity that passive movement and massage will do most to remedy. In the later stages of the disease the organic changes which take place in the muscles, together with the other factors above mentioned, and the constant erroneous position of the limb, have most to do with the production of the deformities that occur. The lateral curvature of the spine may in the same way during the earlier stages of the disease be due to the unopposed action of the erector spinse, while in the later cases it is more commonly produced by the tilting of the pelvis in order to compensate for the shortened leg on the aflfected side. Pathological Anatomy. — As in the case of the clinical symptoms, so with the pathological anatomy, three stages can be recognised as a matter of convenience. If an opportunity arises for an examination during the acute stage nothing abnormal can be seen on the surface of the cord or its membranes ; on section, however, the grey matter of the anterior horns appears of a deep red colour and softened, and it may be so engorged as to appear as if hsemorrhage had taken place into the grey matter. The focus of destruction is generally most acute at one spot, commonly situated in the lumbar region, and from this point the congestion ex- tends for a variable distance, only the most acute part of the process being visible to the naked eye, although when examined microscopi- cally it is seen that the process has a far wider distribution, and that the vessels of the anterior horns of the affected parts are engorged with blood and surrounded by a large number of inflammatory exudation cells. At other points minute extravasations of blood occur. In the regions most affected few if any nerve-cells are to be seen, while at other points where the process has been less severe, swollen and altered nerve-cells are present. There is, in fact, an inflammatory condition of that part of the grey matter of the anterior horns which is supplied by the branches of the artery passing down in the anterior fissure of the cord. In the second stage, after the acute inflam- matory condition has subsided, the grey matter of the anterior horns has a translucent appear- ance, and it is often so soft that on section after the cord has been hardened, a depression occurs in the situation of the anterior horn, giving rise to the appearance of a small cavity. If this condition is examined under the microscope it is found that the hyaline material is composed of very fine fibrils, in which there are numerous newly-formed vessels. In the whole of the softened area there are abundant fat granules, and these are especially numerous in the perivascular lymphatics, so that all the larger vessels are lined out by the presence of these fat globules. In the part most affected no trace either of nerve-cell, nor of any of the fine medullated fibres, which are normally present, can be seen, although in parts less affected both normal cells and fibres are present. Although the process is so strictly limited to the immediate region of the anterior horn, yet numerous degenerate fibres can be found scattered throughout the antero-lateral tracts of the cord, and also to a lesser extent in the posterior columns; these fibres are probably endogenous in origin. Occasionally, also, when there has been damage in the region of Clarke's column, in the lower dorsal region, degenerate fibres are found in the direct cerebellar tracts. Degeneration can also be shown to be present in the anterior roots. In the spinal cord from a case of several years' standing it is seen that the anterior horn of the affected side is reduced in size, and also that the lateral columns are smaller than the corresponding columns of the opposite side. Under the microscope it is seen that the vessels of the affected area are thickened, there is a complete absence of nerve-cells in the anterior horns, and the whole anterior horn is filled up with connective tissue. In other parts where the process has been less acute a few normal ganglion cells may remain together with others that are atrophied and shrunken. Many of the fine medullated fibres which usually form part of the anterior horn have been destroyed, and the contrast in this respect between the posterior and anterior horns, or between the two anterior horns, in those cases in which the condition is unilateral is striking. The anterior roots are atrophied. The peripheral nerves during the acute stage show some degeneration, which affects for the most part the smaller medullated fibres ; in the later stage of the disease these fibres undergo atrophy, and all that is to be noticed about the nerve is that it is somewhat smaller than normal, with possibly some increase of the connective tissue between the fibres. It is very remarkable to notice the number of normal medullated fibres which supply a completely atrophied muscle ; these fibres have been shown to arise from the posterior roots, and to supply the muscle-spindles and the musculo-tendon organs within the muscle. Muscles. — The muscles that are affected undergo atrophy, the individual muscle fibres gradually become smaller and smaller, tlie transverse striation is retained even when they are atrophied to an extreme degree. Fatty degeneration of the muscle fibre does not usually occur, although the final condition of the muscle may be such that it is composed297 PARALYSIS entirely of fat; this fat becomes deposited between the atrophied fibres, and not in them. Not infrequently small areas of muscle retain their normal development. In a muscle which has undergone almost complete degeneration several muscle-spindles can be seen; these contain one or more perfectly normal muscle fibres with normal transverse striation, and in suitably stained specimens it can be shown that the nerve fibres supplying these spindles are perfectly normal. In some cases the muscle, instead of becoming fatty, is found to be sclerosed, that is to say, the muscle fibres undergo atrophy, connective tissue increases between the fibres, and, finally, the muscle becomes simply a mass of connective tissue in which, however, on section the normal muscle-spindles can still be shown to be present. Pathology.—All observers will agree that the vessels in the affected area are thrombosed, and that there are signs of inflammatory reaction around them. But the question whether such thrombosis is a primary or secondary condition is one on which opinions differ. In considering this question it should be borne in mind that the disease is of greatest frequency during the hot period of the year, that it occurs in epidemics, and after the acute specific fevers. These various factors suggest that the primary cause of the disease is not common to all cases, but that the various causes, be they the ex- posure to chill in hot weather, or bacterial or other infection, produce a morbid blood state which is the cause of the disease. The view that is most widely accepted nowadays is that the condition is infective in origin, and the changes that result are inflammatory in character. There is, however, much to be said in favour of the view that the process is one depending on a primary thrombosis of the vessels, and in support of this statement may be cited the rapid onset of the paralysis simulating a vascular rather than an inflam- matory lesion, the limitation of the destructive process to the area of the cord supplied by a branch or branches of the artery of the anterior median fissure, and that both the acute con- dition with mviltiple extravasations of blood and the subsequent softening simulate the condition which is seen in the brain after thrombosis of the smaller vessels. The wide distribution of the paralysis at the onset is easily accounted for by the vascular disturbance taking place in the artery of the anterior median fissure which supplies the whole of the anterior horns, and the fact that smaller areas of thrombosis are found at various levels is only what might be expected as the result of the retardation of the blood-stream in the vessel. With a vascular theory to explain the condition, it is not diflScult to see vvhy the lumbar region of the cord should be more fre- quently affected than the cervical or dorsal, for it must be noted that the lumbar region lies at a point most distant from the blood-supply, and also it has been shown by Moxon that this part of the cord fails to become injected experiment- ally through the reinforcing arteries which pass up in the roots. Bacteriology has yet to prove that there is one specific organism to which the disease is due. Prognosis.—During the acute stage, while the disease is still advancing, it is impossible to say how far it will extend ; if the intercostal muscles become aff'ected and the diaphragm is alone carrying on respiration, the occurrence of slight broncho-pneumonia is sufficient to cause a fatal issue. It is, however, most exceptional for a child to die during the acute stage of the disease. It may be stated as a general rule that the amount of paralysis in the acute stage is considerably in excess of that which is present in the later stages, so that a child who at the onset is paralysed in all four extremities will frequently recover completely so far as the arms are con- cerned, leaving one leg completely paralysed and the other weak; so too when the whole of one leg is at first affected, the residual paralysis may be limited to a single group of muscles. The more rapid the improvement during the first month after the onset the better the prognosis; on the other hand, some cases im- prove very slowly, and the improvement may extend over as long a period as two years. After two years very little improvement is to be looked for, but here again exceptions are met with in which the disease has been of several years' standing, and in which by graduated exercises considerable improvement is obtained. It has seemed to be that such improvement has taken place in cases in which artificial supports have been used early, and no attempts have been made to make the best use of the muscles that remain. In a few cases recovery is complete, no trace of the disease remaining after four to six weeks. In others no trace of weakness can be recognised until the child is undressed, and then slight wasting of the muscles of one thigh or limb is all that can be detected, and all movements are well performed. Such cases are the exception, and recovery always takes place rapidly in these. It is well to bear in mind the possibility that a progressive muscular atrophy may occur at a later age, but the probability is so remote that the question need hardly be considered in regard to prognosis. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the disease is, as a rule, simple; the acute onset, the loss of power, and the flaccidity of the limb with- out any disturbance of sensation are usually sufficient to make the diagnosis clear. During the early stages of the disease, owingPARALYSIS 298 to the pain which the child has, and the fact that the child resents any movement, the disease is often regarded as rheumatism or some acute affection of the bones or joints. In acute epiphysitis there is often a sudden loss of power with complete flaccid palsy of one extremity, generally the arm. This affection commonly occurs in infants of a few weeks to a few months old who are the subjects of con- genital syphilis, but in many ways this paralysis closely simulates acute anterior poliomyelitis. The following points usually make the diagnosis clear : the child is usually considerably younger than the age at which infantile paralysis occurs ; the paralysis is not complete; there is often some thickening about the epiphysis, but this again is not always present when the flaccid condition of the arm is first noticed. The amount of pain on movement of the joint in these cases is often very slight. When the epiphysis at the upper end of the humerus is involved there is complete flaccid palsy of the whole limb, and when that at the lower end there is wrist-drop. The electrical reactions are unaltered. Injury to the brachial plexus may give rise to flaccid palsy. This may occur either at the time of birth or at some subsequent period. The injury that occurs at birth is usually the result of traction on the arm and a history of prolonged labour, and that the paralysis was noticed immediately after delivery is obtained. The injury is not uncommonly confined to one set of muscles, of which the most commonly involved are those supplied by the fifth cervical root, viz., the deltoid, biceps, and supinator longus. Without a distinct history of the paralysis having existed since birth, the diagnosis is often difficult, for the absence of sensory changes and trophic disturbance of the skin does not exclude the possibility of some peri- pheral lesion. Injury to the Brachial Plexus after Birth.— Cases are sometimes seen in which there is a definite history of injury followed by paralysis, and this paralysis is attributed to injury of the brachial plexus. In many of the cases the amount of the affection is out of all proportion to the nature of the injury ; for instance the whole arm may be paralysed and all the muscles absolutely flaccid, and this may be attributed to a fall on the shoulder. Such a widespread palsy would involve all the roots from the fifth cervical to the first dorsal. Here, again, the absence of all sensory impairment and the absence of trophic changes in the skin would all point to an affection of the anterior horns rather than to one of the peripheral nerves. Infantile hemiplegia or monoplegia will some- times give rise to an appearance which at first sight may somewhat resemble infantile paralysis. The limb may be wasted and cold, there is marked loss of power, and there may be some deformity of the foot. The limb, however, is generally somewhat rigid; the knee-jerk is ex- aggerated ; ankle clonus may be present, though this is not common; and the plantar reflex may may be of the extensor type, although in this connection it should be remembered that when the calf muscles are paralysed it is not unusual to obtain extension of the great toe on stimu- lating the sole of the foot. The affection of the arm and leg on the same side would also be in favour of a cerebral lesion, but it must be remembered that occasionally when the arm is affected by infantile paralysis the leg on the same side is sometimes weak from involvement of the pyramid on the same side. In cases of doubt the question can be easily settled by an electrical examination of the muscles. Congenital spastic paraplegia is sometimes mistaken for infantile paralysis, though in a typical form of the disease the error seems hardly possible. In some cases, when there is retraction of the flexor muscles, the knee-jerks are not obtainable, so that the two conditions might be mistaken. The spastic condition of the muscles should at once serve to distinguish the disease from infantile paralysis. Myopathy may occasionally be mistaken for an anterior poliomyelitis ; but it is more fre- quent for a widespread anterior poliomyelitis to be mistaken for a myopathy, more especially when there is affection of the extensor muscles of the thighs and the muscles of the back, for then the position assumed by the patient in rising from the floor is exactly that of a child with myopathy. The gradual onset, the wide distribution of muscles affected, and the group- ing of the muscles so affected, generally render the diagnosis easy. An electrical examination of the muscles would also aid in the diagnosis, for in the case of a myopathy there is simple quantitative alteration without any qualitative change. From a multiple neuritis either following diphtheria or some other infection or cause, the slower onset, the less complete and the more widely distributed paralysis, and the con- comitant affection of one or more of the cranial nerves, together with the fact that complete recovery gradually takes place, make the diagnosis easy. Hsemorrhage into the spinal cord has been diagnosed as infantile paralysis, but the extreme rarity of the affection would hardly ever lead to its suggestion unless some unusual etiological circumstance were present. Treatment.—If the patient is seen during the acute stage of the disease, the pain in the back, which is often considerable, may be relieved by the application of leeches, hot fomentations, and counter-irritation. The child should, if possible, be made to lie in the prone position in bed. If convulsions are present, or the299 PARALYSIS child is very restless, the administration of bromide may considerably relieve these symp- toms. The ordinary treatment of the febrile condition which accompanies the disease should be adopted, and purgatives, salicylate of soda, and quinine may be given. Hyperpyrexia should be treated by tepid sponging. After the immediate acute stage has passed and the paralysis has become established, the inunction of mercury, the administration of belladonna, ergot, or iodide of potash seem some- times to have a beneficial effect. At a later stage strychnine may be given with advantage. The local treatment of the paralysed limb is at this stage most important, and that which is of the greatest moment is that the limb should be kept warm. As it has already been stated, there is very considerable vaso-motor disturb- ance, and the limb readily gets cold. Warmth should be kept up in the limb by friction with the dry hand, and in the intervals the limb should be covered in a loose-fitting- knitted stocking extending well above the paralysed part. Artificial warmth may with advantage be applied in the form of dry heat, but it is necessary to adjust the temperature with care, for, owing to the vaso-motor dis- turbances, burns which may be produced heal very slowly. In order to prevent deformity, it is well to place the leg at night into a light poroplastic or leather splint, so arranged that it shall keep the foot at right angles to the leg. Massage may with advantage be commenced as soon as the child is free from pain, in order to keep the muscles in as good a condition as possible while recovery is taking place. Passive movements form a most important part of this treatment, and should be carried out more frequently than the actual rubbing. It is well that such movements should be repeated at least three times a day. Resistance movements are also of importance, and even in a child who is unable to make any movement with the paralysed limb, it is well to make the child do the movements with the sound limb, with the object, if possible, of producing some movements in the paralysed limb. With regard to the application of the electric current much depends on the reaction of the muscles. If the paralysed muscles react to a faradic current of a moderate strength, its appli- cation may be beneficial, and can do no harm, except in so far as it tends to unduly develop the normal muscles, and eventually to increase the amount of contraction, owing to the in- equality in the strength of the muscles. If the paralysed muscles no longer react to faradic stimulation, but react to galvanism, then it is advisable to use that form of current, the positive or negative pole being applied to the muscle according to which evokes the better response. There is, however', one great difficulty connected with the constant current, and that is that most children strongly object to it; they will often stand a faradic current so strong that it will set the observer's muscles into tetanus, and yet they will not tolerate a galvanic current that will give rise to a contraction. Various methods can be adopted for its application, either direct with one electrode on the back and another on the limb, or by placing the child in a bath and pass- ing the current through the water. Although of service, too much importance should not be attached to the application of electricity, and if the child cannot stand the current sufiiciently strong to cause a contraction of the muscle, it had better not be persevered with. The treat- ment of the later stages of the disease is mostly surgical, and the only question that arises is the time at which an instrument for the support of the limb should be applied. There is no doubt that the power of recovery is prevented by the early application of an instrument. To say that instruments should not be worn for two years after the onset of the disease would be a too dogmatic statement if applied to all cases ; but if no deformity is produced, it is well to allow that time to elapse before an instrument for the support of the limb is ordered. Apart from instrumental support, various operative procedures may have to be resorted to—the division of tendons for the correction of deformity, arthrodesis, the transplantation of tendons, and in severe cases amputation may be advisable. Each case has to be judged by the extent of the paralysis and the defoi'mity pro- duced, and for details of operative procedure the reader is referred to some work on orthopaedic surgery. Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis in the Adult. —Acute anterior poliomyelitis in adults runs so different a course from the disease seen in the infant that it entails a separate descrij^tion. Not only is the course of the disease different, but its progress and prognosis are by no means so favourable. 07iset and Course. —The onset of the disease is usually attended by a rise in temperature. The loss of power does not occur with the suddenness that is seen in the case of infants, but manifests itself more gradually in the course of one or more days. The paralysis may, as in the infantile form, affect one limb, but more commonly it aifects both legs and both arms, spreading from the former to the latter. Such a palsy in the infant would probably show a tendency to rapid improvement, but not so with the adult; it remains stationary, or only slowly improves. Atrophy of the affected muscles rapidly occurs, while on electrical examination they show the reaction of degeneration. In advanced stages of the disease they undergo further change, and contracture occurs. Sensation remains intact; but even the pres-PARALYSIS 300 ence of some impairment of sensation does not necessarily exclude the possibility that the con- dition is an anterior poliomyelitis. Sometimes there is severe pain in the back and in the limb affected. The majority of adult patients who are affected are attacked between twenty and thirty years of age. The prognosis is unfavourable. It is said that complete recovery may take place, but in the majority of cases but little recovery is seen. With regard to the etiology of the affection, it seems to follow very much the same affections as are seen in the infantile form—-that is to say, after severe cold, and the specific fevers, measles, diphtheria, influenza, and after pro- longed exertion. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the affection, which is simple in the child, is in the adult a matter of considerable difficulty, since there are other affections in them which closely resemble poliomyelitis, and which occur far more fre- quently than this affection. The most import- ant of these is a polyneuritis, and it not infre- quently happens that in that disease a history is obtained of sudden loss of power. Sensory disturbances should theoretically form a dia- gnostic feature ; but they may be present in anterior poliomyelitis, and may sometimes be absent in a polyneuritis. Tenderness of the muscles and trophic changes in the skin would be in favour of a polyneuritis, while an affection of muscles not corresponding to a spinal segment would point in the same direction. It must, however, be admitted that the distinction be- tween poliomyelitis and polyneuritis is in many cases impossible; in fact, it is probable that the whole lower neurone is affected, and that those which are longest are most prone to suffer. Hemorrhage into the tipinal Cord.—The rapid onset of paralysis cavised by haemorrhage into the spinal cord may suggest the diagnosis of an acute poliomyelitis, and the flaccid paralysis of the legs and the loss of knee-jerk which often accompany it also point in the same direction. The later stage of the disease is essentially different, and the alteration in sensation and the spastic condition of the legs, with increased knee-jerks, usually enable a correct diagnosis to be made. Subacute Poliomyelitis.—The occurrence of this form of poliomyelitis, as apart from pro- gressive muscular atrophy, has been doubted; but the distinctive character of the disease is that paralysis first appears, and is followed by muscular atrophy, which is not the case in the disease known as progressive muscular atrophy. Etiology.—The disease occurs in association with pregnancy and with metallic poisoning. It is also said to occur in individuals who have been the subject of acute poliomyelitis in infancy. Symptoms.—The disease begins gradually with weakness in one or other extremity, followed after a few weeks or months by weakness in another limb. Following on this loss of power there is muscular atrophy, fibrillary tremor, and a partial or complete reaction of degenera- tion. The malady is progressive, and is fatal either by involving the respiratory centres or by some pulmonary affection. Prognosis.—The disease is usually progressive. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis from a progressive muscular atrophy lies in the fact that the dis- ease is usually more widespread, and that the paralysis appears before the muscular atrophy. Pathology.—The pathological identity of these cases is not established; in some the process would seem to be similar to that found in the acute poliomyelitis of infants, namely, a vascular lesion, while in others a primary atrophy of the cells of the anterior horn has been found. In the vascular form localised foci with cell- infiltration, and destruction of the ganglion cells, and finally a condition of sclerosis are found. In the second form there is a general atrophy of the cells of the anterior horns and of the ground substance of the grey matter. In many of the cases there is scattered degeneration of the antero-lateral tracts. Chronic Spinal Muscular Atrophy and Bulbar Paralysis.—There are two affections, "progressive muscular atrophy" and "chronic nuclear bulbar paralysis," that usually receive separate descriptions, but which may with advantage be considered together, in that, from the pathological standpoint, they are of the same nature. To these may be added a third affection, " amyotrophic lateral sclerosis," which is also essentially the same. The underlying morbid condition in these three affections is a progressive degeneration of the motor neurones of the spinal coi'd, medulla oblongata, and brain respectively. Even clinically these affections present certain features in common : but differ- ent types can, nevertheless, be distinguished according as the symptomatology indicates an affection of the motor neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord (progressive muscular atrophy); similar affection of the neurones of the motor nerves in the medulla oblongata, the cells of which nuclei are the homologues of the anterior horn cells of the spinal coi'd (bulbar paralysis); or implication of the motor neurones of the cerebral cortex, in conjunction with those of one or other, or both of the lower levels, in which case sclerosis of the lateral columns of the spinal cord is added, and the affection is known as "amyotrophic lateral sclerosis." Etiology.—It is exceptional for moi'e than one memlser of a family to be attacked, and only in very rare instances has there been any evidence of direct transmission from parent to offspring, so that these affections contrast strikingly with the myopathic forms of muscular301 PARALYSIS atrophy in which heredity plays so prominent a part. Adults are alone affected, and most commonly between the ages of forty and fifty; the bulbar form of the disease does not occur in young subjects, and although the spinal form may do so, it is rare for even this form to begin before the age of twenty-five. Men are more often affected than women. In many cases no exciting cause can be determined; but various causes have been assigned in different cases, and it seems possible that some of these may have something to do with the generation of the disease. Of intoxications, syphilis and lead have each been credited with a deleterious influence of this kind. Blows to the back and injuries that cause general shock to the nervous system have been supposed to be effective, and there are cases in which atrophy has commenced in a limb that has received an injury. Exposure to cold, sexual excess, anxiety, mental strain, and worry have all been regarded as exercising an unfavourable influence of the same kind. Morbid Anatomy.—The precise changes met with in the nervous system depend on which neurones are affected, spinal or bulbar, or both, and as to whether or not the neurones of the sensori-motor cortex are concomitantly involved with degeneration resulting in their axones in the pyramidal tracts. It is the exception to meet with cases in which degeneration of the pyramidal tracts is not present, though a few such cases have been recorded. In cases of this kind, although there is no degeneration of the pyramidal tracts, there may be some de- generation of the white matter of the ventral part of the spinal cord in the region of the ground bundles. The essential change in this class of case is a degeneration and atrophy of the cells of the anterior horns. There may be an entire disappearance of the cells from some parts of the cord, while in other parts some cells remain, though many of these are much reduced in size and are obviously atrophic. The fine nerve fibres which course through the anterior horns are also reduced in number, and there is much increase in fibrous tissue, which replaces the degenerated nerve elements. All these changes lead to shrinking of the anterior horns, which are accordingly much reduced in size—it may be to an unequal degree on the two sides, when the disease is more advanced on one side than on the other. No roimd cell infiltra- tion, or other evidence of inflammatory reaction, is present, although in some cases the blood- vessels are found engorged. The degenerative changes are usually most pronounced in the cervical part of the spinal cord, to which region they may be limited; but the lumbar part of the cord is, of course, similarly affected in those cases in which the muscles of the lower extremities have been atrophied during life. When the motor nuclei of the medulla and pons are implicated there is degeneration and atrophy of the cells of their neurones, in every way similar to the degeneration which occurs in the cells of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. The fine nerve fibres that course through the nuclei degenerate and disappear, and the nerve elements are replaced by proliferation of connective tissue. The hypoglossal nucleus is the chief seat of the degenerative changes in these cases, but similar, though usually less pronounced changes are met with in the facial, the motor fifth, and the vago-glosso-pharyngeal nuclei. In those cases in which there have been spastic phenomena during life, and even in others in which there has been no suspicion of this, extensive degeneration of the pyramidal tracts is found, and it may be possible to trace the degeneration of the axones that comprise these tracts from the sensori-motor region of the cerebral cortex to the lowest part of the spinal cord. Moreover, the cells of these neurones in the cortex are degenerated and atrophied; many of them are shrunken and their axones and dendrones are atrophied and broken off, while the cells of other neurones have entirely dis- appeared. It is the large pyramidal cells of the cortex that undergo this atrophic change, and the degeneration of their axones can be traced through the corona radiata, internal capsule, crus, pons, and medulla oblongata to the spinal cord. The degeneration of these axones may be seen in the spinal cord alone, however, without evidence that the degenera- tion extends all the way up the pyramidal system to the cortex, or it may be traced from the cord up to the medulla or pons, while the motor path above this is free from degeneration. These changes in the pyramidal system are met with in association with degeneration of the cells of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, or of those of the motor nuclei in the medulla oblongata, and pons, while in other cases both the motor nuclei in the bulb and the anterior horns are affected in conjunction with the degeneration of the pyramidal tracts. Pathology.—The changes met with in the central nervous system are due to a slow pro- gressive degeneration of the motor neurones, whether these be affected in the anterior horns, in the nuclei of the medulla and pons, or in the cerebral cortex, though why there should be this premature death of the nerve elements is a question that has yet to be solved. The possibilities are that there is a congenital pre- disposition to early decay, or that some toxic agent, capable of selective action, attacks the motor neurones. The most generally accepted view as to the structural independence of the iipper and lower neurones makes it clear that, whatever the influence may be which determines the degeneration and death of the nerve ele- ments, the lower neurones of the cord and305 PARALYSIS medulla are affected independently of the upper or cortical neurones, and that there is not a direct extension of the degeneration from the upper to the lower neurones. So, too, in that the cell is the part of the neurone that preserves the nutrition of the whole unit, it is easy to understand why, with gradual decay of the neurone, the part farthest from the cell should first show signs of death, and that accordingly the axones commence to degenerate . at their most distal part. This is the way in which degeneration of the pyramidal tract in the spinal cord and medulla is to be accounted for, when no demonstrable evidences of de- generation are detected in the pyramidal cells of the sensori-motor cortex of the brain. Symptoms.—In that the clinical picture of the disease is diff'erent according as the neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord, those of the bulbar nuclei, or those of the sensori- motor cortex, are affected, the symptomatology of the three forms deserves separate descriptions. Progressive Muscular Atrophy.—The onset of this aff'ection is, as a rule, without numb- ness, pain, or other subjective sensations. The patient gradually develops weakness, with mus- cular atrophy, usually in the upper limbs, and most frequently the small muscles of the hands are first affected. Weakness of the thumb is usually the first defect noticed, movements such as are necessary for picking up a pin or in buttoning the clothes become difficult and eventually impossible, and before long the patient may recognise that the ball of the thumb is flat on one side as compared with the other. If the patient comes under observa- tion at this stage of the illness, atrophy of the thenar eminence and weakness of the move- ments of the thumb, notably those of abduction and opposition, can be determined. If it has not preceded the atrophy of the thenar muscles, as is most common, there soon follows hollowing of the space between the thumb and index finger, as viewed from the back of the hand. This is due to wasting of the first dorsal in- terosseous muscle, in consequence of which the index finger cannot be properly abducted from the middle finger. The other interossei also waste, so that the spaces between the meta- carpal bones all show a variable degree of hollowing, proportional to the degree of atrophy that has resulted, while movements of abduction and adduction of the fingers are feeble. The hypothenar eminence also becomes flat owing to atrophy of the muscles of this part of the hand, and abduction of the little finger is weak. If the interossei become markedly atrophied before the long extensors and flexors of the fingers are affected the r/iam en griffe results, for the interossei, when normal, flex the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and extend them at the phalangeal joints, so that when they are paralysed the long extensors and flexors bring about over-extension at the metacarpo- phalangeal joints and flexion at the phalangeal joints, and the hand thus assumes a claw shape. If the lumbricales be also atrophied the flexor tendons stand out prominently in the palm of the hand, owing to the great hollowing that results. Although the muscular atrophy begins on one side it always becomes bilateral, so that it is rare for many months to elapse before similar symptoms appear on the side that is not at fii'st affected ; moreover, the affection is, as a rule, symmetrical as well as bilateral, indentical parts being attacked on the two sides. As the disease progresses the muscles of the forearm next become atrophied, and the flexors usually succumb before the extensors. The deltoid is next involved, and the shoulder loses its rounded contour and becomes flat, while in advanced cases a depression appears beneath the outer end of the acromion process. The supra- and infra-spinati become atrophied about the same time, and the subscapularis and teres major and minor soon share their fate, as do the biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus. The serratus magnus usually becomes aff'ected, in consequence of which the vertebral border of the scapula projects when the arm is raised to the horizontal line in front of the patient. The upper or clavicular portion of the pectoralis major as a rule wastes, as do the trapezius and rhomboids; but it is noteworthy that the trapezius is only affected in so far as its middle and lower portions are concerned, the upper part of the muscle practically always escapes— a fact that led Duchenne to speak of it as the nltimum moriens. The levator anguli scapulse commonly escapes, and the latissimus dorsi, lower half of the pectoralis major, and triceps are almost always unaffected. The neck muscles may become atrophied and weak, though the sterno-mastoid usually escapes and the platysma myoides is never aff'ected. The muscles at the back of the neck, as a rule, suff'er more than those in front, so that the head falls forward, and the chin rests against the upper part of the sternum; but the patient can jerk the head unduly backwards, and can then balance it in this position on the spine. The intercostal muscles commonly suff'er in the later stage of the aff'ection, and they may become completely paralysed, in which case respiration is carried on by the diaphragm alone; but, on the other hand, it may be the diaphragm that is chiefly aff'ected, in which case the patient has to depend on the inter- costals for the preservation of life. How pre- carious the patient's existence may be at this stage of the malady may be gathered from the fact that the intercostals rarely escape entirely even when there is a pi-eponderating weakness of the diaphragm. Less commonly the ab- dominal muscles become atrophied and weak.PAEALYSIS 303 The lower extremities may remain unaffected throughout the whole course of the disease; but when affected the muscles that waste are usually the anterior tibial group, the quadriceps extensors of the knee, and the glutei. There are rare cases in which the atrophy begins in the lower extremities before the muscles of the upper limbs are affected, in which case the anterior tibial muscles are the first to suffer. Throughout the course of this disease the amount of paralysis detected is proportional to the degree of the muscular atrophy that is present. Moreover, there is no spasticity such as is due to sclerosis of the lateral columns of the cord, and such as results in the form of the affection that has been named amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Any contracture that is present is due to the unopposed action of muscles that have escaped atrophy when their antagonists have been affected. The tendon-jerks remain unaltered, unless the muscles on which they depend become much atrophied, in which case they are abolished, so that the knee-jerks are preserved, except in the cases in which the extensors of the knee are wasted; but the tendon-jerks do not become exaggerated, and ankle clonus is never present. The plantar reflex is preserved as long as the muscles that produce the movements which constitute this reflex are intact; and as in the normal subject, the toes always flex when the sole of the foot is stimulated. There is never any blunting of cutaneous sensibility. The sphincters escape except in rare instances, and then they usually only suffer late in the course of the disease, though there are exceptions to this rule. Sexual power is not uncommonly lost. The clinical picture of a case of progressive muscular atrophy may conform to the above description throughout its whole course ; but, on the other hand, phenomena due to affection of motor nuclei of cranial nerves may supervene, in which case bulbar paralysis is added to the spinal cord affection. So too, with or without this addition, the clinical picture may be altered to that of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis by the appearance of spastic phenomena which indicate degeneration of the lateral columns of the spinal cord. Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.—In this form of the disease the upper and lower motor neurones are both involved, and there is thus evidence of lateral sclerosis in addition to muscular atrophy. The mode of onset varies. In some cases the earliest manifestation is a spastic condition of the limbs, and the tendon-jerks are increased all over the body. Muscular atrophy is added later, and is in every way similar to that already described under progressive muscular atrophy. A second group of cases commences like cases of progressive muscular atrophy, the earliest sign of disease in them being atrophy of muscles, but sooner or later the limbs become stiff" and the tendon-jerks exaggerated. In a third group the spastic phenomena and the muscular atrophy come on together, and it is not possible to say that the one symptom preceded the other. It was on cases of the first kind that Charcot based his classical description of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and it is probable that the other forms are still imperfectly recognised as being examples of the same disease. The patients complain of weakness and it may be of stiffness in the limbs, and on physical examination either no muscular atrophy is de- tected, or such as is present is not sufficient to account for the weakness. As the rigidity in the limbs increases, movements at all the joints are hampered by the stiffness, and the gait presents the characters of the spastic type. The knee-jerks are found to be exaggerated, ankle clonus is commonly pi'esent, the arm-jerks are all increased, and it may be possible to evoke a marked jaw-jerk. Moreover, stimulation of the sole of the foot may elicit an abnormal plantar reflex, in that the toes may extend instead of flexing as they should under normal circumstances. When muscles begin to atrophy in these cases it is usually the arms that are earliest affected, in which case the first dorsal interosseous muscle or the small muscles of the thumb are first attacked, while the subsequent spread of the muscular atrophy is in the same order and distribution as in progressive muscular atrophy. It may, however, be muscles supplied by cranial nerves that are first attacked, in which case bulbar paralysis results, and the manifestations of the disease are then identical with those to be subsequently described under Chronic Nuclear Bulbar Paralysis. Atrophy of the muscles of the lower extremities occurs less commonly, and does not, as a rule, become nearly so pronounced as in the muscles of the upper limbs. In consequence of spasticity and contracture of the muscles that do not atrophy, the upper arms may be more or less glued to the sides of the thorax, the elbows may be partly flexed, the forearms pronated, and the wrists and fingers flexed. As the atrophy of the muscles inci-eases, however, the spasticity lessens; indeed, the muscular atrophy may be so widespread and so pronounced in the upper limbs that but little muscle is left to allow rigidity to be determined. In the lower extremities the rigidity is always very marked, and as long as progression is possible the gait is pronouncedly spastic. The rigidity may lessen with the appearance of muscular atrophy in the lower limbs, but never to anything like the same extent as in the upper extremities. The neck muscles, the intercostals, and the abdominal muscles all become affected in the advanced stages of this form of the disease, asPARALYSIS 304 in the cases in which there is no evidence of lateral sclerosis. A very large proportion of the patients develop bulbar symptoms sooner or later, so that it is more common to meet with cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which bulbar paralysis forms part of the clinical picture than not, and hence it is that these patients are so frequently emotional. So, too, respiratory and cardiac troubles occur, which are probably due to affection of the cells of pneumogastric nucleus. There is no blunting of sensibility; but the subjects of this affection not uncommonly com- plain of numbness, tingling, and pain in the limbs. The sphincters if affected at all only become so in the final stages of the disease. Chronic Nuclear Bulbar Paralysis (Glosso- labio-laryngeal Paralysis).—This form of bulbar paralysis is essentially of the same nature as progressive muscular atrophy, the only difference being that the neurones of some of the motor cranial nerves are affected instead of those of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. The disease may begin in this part of the central nerve axis, and may run its course to a fatal termination without any evidence of similar affection of the neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. In other cases the anterior horns become affected, and then the symptoms of progressive muscular atrophy are added to those of bulbar paralysis, in the same way that symptoms of bulbar paralysis may arise in the course of a case that begins as progressive muscular atrophy. Whether the disease be limited to the neurones of motor cranial nerves, or whether there is affection of the cells of the anterior horns as well, it is common to detect signs of lateral sclerosis in these cases, so that the muscular atrophy is combined with spasticity, and the cases then present the features of bulbar para- lysis in association with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In short, cases of this kind afford examples of the concomitant affection of the motor neurones of the cerebral cortex, of the nuclei of certain cranial nerves, and, it may be also, of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. In bulbar paralysis the tongue is, as a rule, the first part to be affected, and speech becomes defective, notably in regard to the pronunciation of dental and guttural consonants, in that the tongue has to be brought in contact with the teeth in the one case and with the palate in the other. The movements of the tongue are impaired, and the organ shows signs of atrophy. It cannot be protruded to the full extent, nor can its tip be properly curled up, and lateral movements are also impaired, so that it cannot be brought in contact with the cheek on either side. All that is evident in the way of atrophy at first is that the organ is somewhat flattened, but as the atrophy progresses the mucous mem- brane becomes thrown into longitudinal folds, with grooves between, and the organ then has a shrivelled, puckered appearance. A further feature, which is very characteristic, is the occur- rence of fibrillary tremors in a longitudinal direction in the course of the muscle fibres of the tongue. Weakness of the orbicularis oris next becomes manifest, so that the patient can neither pout nor whistle, and speech, already defective in consequence of the paralysis of the tongue, becomes further impaired, the chief new diffi- culty experienced being in the pronunciation of the explosive labials "b" and "p," which become " m " and "v." Bilateral paralysis of the soft palate accom- panies the paralysis of the tongue and orbi- cularis oris, so that the patient's speech has a nasal quality, and "k" and "g," already difficult of pronunciation, become more so, in that the difficulty of pressing the tongue against the soft palate is increased. The paralysis of the palate also increases the difficulty of pro- nouncing the explosive labials "b" and "p," in that some of the air escapes by the posterior nares. The escape of air in this way also makes it impossible for the patient to blow out the cheeks, even if the lips are tightly closed be- tween the fingers and thumb, and the effort to do so merely results in a snorting noise, due to the rushing of air through the nose. When attempts are made to swallow liquids, they regurgitate through the nose, as the palate no longer shuts off the posterior nares fi'om the pharynx during the act of deglutition. On phonation or deep inspiration the palate either does not move at all, or is very imperfectly drawn up, and the reflex action of the palate is also diminished or abolished, so that the uvula is not elevated when the palate is pricked. Later in the course of the disease the vocal cords may become paralysed ; but this does not occur as frequently as the name " labio-glosso- laryngeal palsy" might lead one to suppose. When the vocal cords are affected the voice becomes low-pitched and monotonous, and the patient cannot cough properly. Still later the nucleus of the vagus may become affected, in consequence of which the heart's action becomes rapid, and the patient is liable to attack of dypsncea. Another late phenomenon that may occur is atrophy of the chin muscles, but with the ex- ception of these muscles and the orbicularis oris, all the other muscles of the face, as a rule, escape. Sometimes the muscles of mastication are affected, in consequence of which the lower jaw may drop, the mouth remains open, and the patient can only bite very feebly. The unfortunate victim of this malady is usually very emotional, and cries and laughs without cause, although the intellect remains perfectly clear. When the disease is fully established the expression is most lugubrious.305 PARALYSIS the mouth remains open, the lips are everted, and the saliva is constantly dribbling from the mouth, where it accumulates in excessive amount owing to the difficulty there is in swallowing it. The power of speech may be entirely lost, so that a few grunts may be all that is possible, or the patient may be able to phonate a few vowels, or mumble a word or two very slowly in a monotonous way. The tongue lies on the floor of the mouth, shrivelled up and incapable of the slightest movement, and the soft palate is pendulous and immobile, or it flaps to and fro with each act of respiration, while thick viscid saliva may cling to the fauces in festoons. By the time this stage is reached there is commonly little or no power of mastication, and the act of swallowing is exceedingly difficult and attended with considerable danger, in that the larynx cannot be drawn up under the epi- glottis, whose muscles are also weak, as are the constrictors of the pharynx; thus food readily passes into the larynx and produces choking, and in that there is little power of eff'ective cough, suffocation or inhalation pneumonia may be induced. Reflex action of the palate is abolished or is very feeble, so that when the palate is touched it either does not move at all or is only feebly raised, and the pharyngeal reflex is also abo- lished, so that tickling the fauces fails to induce retching. The tendon-jerks are not increased in the cases of bulbar paralysis unaccompanied by lateral sclerosis, nor in the cases in which, without aff"ection of the lateral columns of the cord, the neurones of the anterior horns of the spinal cord are degenerated in conjunction with those of the nuclei in the medulla oblon- gata. When the bulbar paralysis forms part of the clinical picture of the form of the aff'ection in which there is lateral sclerosis, and which is known as "amyotrophic lateral sclerosis," then it is that the tendon-jerks are increased. In such cases a jaw-jerk, or even jaw clonus may be present, the arm-jerks are increased, as are the knee-jerks, and ankle clonus can be elicited. So, too, the toes are extended instead of being flexed when the plantar reflex is elicited. Diagnosis.—The conditions from which chronic spinal muscular atrophy and bulbar paralysis have to be distinguished diff"er somewhat accord- ing to the form that the disease assumes. Myopathy. — When the indications suggest progressive muscular atrophy it is of primary importance to exclude the muscular atrophies of myopathic origin, and attention to the following points usually makes this task com- paratively easy:—The absence of a hereditary history of the disease, the more advanced age at which the manifestations appear, the presence of bulbar symptoms, fibrillary tremors in the muscles, and evidence of the reaction of degen- eration on electrical stimulation, all suppoi't VOL. VII the diagnosis of the spinal cord affection. The combination in which the muscles are atrophied is, moreover, diff'erent in the two varieties of disease, for while the small muscles of the hands commonly suffer in the spinal cord aff'ection, they visually escape in the myopathies, and although in both forms of disease the muscles about the shoulder girdle may be attacked, it is noteworthy that the deltoid frequently suff"ers in the former class while it usually escapes atrophy in the myopathies. So, too, the trapezius may atrophy throughout its whole extent in the latter class of aifection, but its upper portion escapes to the very end, as a rule, in the spinal cord disease. Then, again, atrophy of the lower half of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi is highly character- istic of one form of myopathy; whereas these muscles are rarely aiTected when the atrophy is due to changes in the spinal cord. The detection of enlargememt of any muscles negatives the possibility that the muscular atrophy is of spinal origin. In addition to the points of distinction that have already been noted, the presence of spasticity and exaggeration of the tendon-jerks serve to distinguish amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in that these phenomena never occur in the myopathies. Moreover, although the face is affected in the facio-scapulo-humeral form of idiopathic muscular atrophy, the tongue, palate, and larynx never become involved, so that bulbar paralysis is readily distinguished from this form of myopathy. Subacute Poliomyelitis.—The onset is more rapid, paralysis as a rule precedes atrophy of the muscles, there is usually some tendency to recovery, and the muscles that are atrophied are picked out at random, and not in the definite order that obtains in progressive mus- cular atrophy. There is another form of muscular atrophy that is usually subacute in onset, in which some muscles of the hands and arms are picked out, while others escape in a manner that suggests affection of the spinal cord, but whose pathology is as yet uncertain. These cases are further distinguished from progressive muscular atrophy owing to the fact that pain is commonly an early symptom, and it may be possible to detect some ansesthesia. Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis differs from the chronic affection of the anterior horns in the fact that the onset is sudden and attended with rise of temperatui'e. The paralysis that is at first present exceeds that which subsequently persists, the muscular atrophy follows on the paralysis, and only some of the muscles that are at first disabled become wasted, and the reaction of degeneration is more pronounced in them than when the muscular atrophj'^ is due to the chx-onic degenerative disease. Moreover, children are usually attacked, whereas it is 20PARALYSIS 306 extremely rare for the chronic form of affection to commence in childhood. The peroneal type of muscular atrophy, in which there is degeneration in the peripheral nerves and posterior columns of the spinal cord, is distinguished by the following features:— Although the small muscles of the hands waste, the atrophy commences in the peronei and other muscles of the leg below the knee, the onset of the disease is in childhood, several members of the family are similarly affected, and there may even be a hereditary history of the affection. Further important points of distinction from progressive muscular atrophy are the occurrence of pain, blunting of cutaneous sensibility, and vaso-motor changes in the skin. Peripheral ne%iritis usually causes pain or tingling sensations, the nerves are tender to pressure, and some anaesthesia can usually be determined. Moreover, the onset is more rapid in neuritis, paralysis precedes muscular atrophy, and corresponds to the anatomical distribution of the nerve affected; moreover, the reaction of degeneration is more complete. Fibrillary tremors do not occur, and all spastic phenomena are absent. When the neuritis affects the cervical nerve roots the diagnosis is usually more difficult, for the same muscles may then be affected as in progressive muscular atrophy, and there may be very little blunting of sensibility ; but the paralysis is of more rapid onset, and pain is usually a prominent symptom. Cervical pachymeningitis may also be difficult to distinguish, owing to the similarity in the distribution of the muscular atrophy, and from the further fact that spastic phenomena may be present in the lower extremities, suggesting amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. There is, how- ever, a good deal of rigidity about the neck, without any similar condition in the arms, pain is usually severe, there may be tenderness on pressure over the cervical spines, and some anaesthesia can as a rule be determined. It is, further, important to remember that bulbar symptoms never occur in these cases. Caries or tumour at the level of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae may occasion atrophy of the small muscles of the hands, and spastic phenomena in the lower limbs. But pain in the back, pain radiating along the nerve roots, tenderness on pressure over the spine at this level, the occurrence of angular curvature, the absence of spasticity in the arms, the presence of anaesthesia, and the frequency of sphincter affection, all serve to distinguish these cases from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Syringomyelia.—The distribution of the mus- cular atrophy in this disease, affecting as it usually does the small muscles of the hands, and the presence of spasticity and exaggerated tendon - jerks in the lower extremities, may suggest amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but the absence of spasticity in the arms, the presence of anfesthesia, the occurrence of painless whitlows and other trophic disturbances of the skin, nystagmus, and lateral curvature of the spine, all serve to make the diagnosis clear. Primary Spastic Paraplegia.—Although the spastic phenomena are the same as in amyo- trophic lateral sclerosis, there is no atrophy of the muscles such as occurs in the latter disease. Disseminated Sclerosis.—In this disease also, although it is common to meet with spastic phenomena, muscular atrophy is rare. More- over, optic nerve atrophy, nystagmus, the peculiar speech defect, intention tremor, and early affection of the sphincter of the bladder, make the diagnosis of the disseminated disease certain. Myelitis is of more rapid onset, sensation is commonly affected, as are the sphincters, while it is rare to meet with atrophy of the small muscles of the hands in this affection. The differential diagnosis of chronic nuclear bulbar paralysis will be dealt with when all the forms of bulbar paralysis have been described {see p. 309). Prognosis. — Though always grave, the prognosis varies with the form that the disease assumes. It is best in progressive muscular atrophy without indications of lateral sclerosis, and most unfavourable in bulbar paralysis, while amyotrophic lateral sclerosis stands inter- mediate between the other two forms as regards the seriousness of the outlook. In progressive muscular atrophy there may be arrest of the disease, either spontaneously or as a result of treatment, and the arrest may be permanent; but in other cases the disease subsequently progresses to a fatal termination. Muscles that no longer respond to electrical stimuli cannot be expected to recover, but when the damage to the muscles has only been slight it is possible that thei'e may not only be arrest of the atrophy, but even some improvement in their nutrition. The gravity of the case is always much increased when there are indica- tions of bulbar paralysis, or when the muscles of respiration are involved; but as long as the muscles of the limbs are alone affected there are no grounds for apprehension as to the immediate future. A fatal issue is inevitable in bulbar paralysis, and the end is usually reached within two years from the onsSt of the affection. The deterioration is as a rule steadily progressive, though in some cases the affection remains stationary for a time, only to progress again, however, after this temporary lull. Death may result from paralysis of respiration, owing to extension of the morbid process to the nucleus of the vagus, or the patient may die from asthenia consequent on the ingestion of an insufficient amount of food. Life may, on the other hand, be cut short byPARALYSIS 307 suffocation owing to impaction of food in the glottis, or by bronchitis or pneumonia induced by inhalation of liquids and food particles into the lungs. Treatment.—Every effort must be made to improve the patient's general nutrition in the hope that the morbid tendency of the nerve elements to degenerate may in this way be lessened. A liberal dietary, supplemented by cod-liver oil and extract of malt, fulfil these requirements in so far as progressive muscular atrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are concerned; but when there is bulbar paralysis the feeding of the patients becomes a matter of serious moment. A careful watch has to be kept over them while they are at meals, for food may readily become lodged in the glottis and cause fatal suffocation. They may experience difficulty in swallowing both liquid and solid foods, though happily they can as a rule swallow soft pultaceous foods better; but even this becomes impossible in the final stages of the disease. Life is then to be pre- served by artificial feeding by the nasal tube. Fresh air, especially in the country or by the sea, is beneficial, and even a sea voyage may be expedient in some cases. All depressing influences, whether physical or mental, must, as far as possible, be avoided; hence, although exercise is indicated, it must never be taken in such amount as to cause fatigue. The most careful precautions are needed to prevent these patients from taking cold, for in many of them the muscles of respiration are weak, and they are thus ill-prepared to combat any bronchial or pulmonary affection. They ought always to be warmly clad, and should wear flannel next to the skin. All tonic medicines are of service in the treatment of these affections, so that arsenic, iron, quinine, and phosphorus are all indicated. Strychnia is of special service in the treatment of progressive muscular atrophy and bulbar paralysis in which there are no signs of lateral sclerosis; but it is contraindicated in amyo- trophic lateral sclerosis, for it tends to increase the spasticity that is present in this form of the disease. The drug is supposed to be more effective when administered by subcutaneous injection than when given by the mouth (Sir Wm. Gowers). Local treatment by means of galvanism and massage is most important for improving the nutrition of the affected muscles. In making use of the galvanic current the positive pole ought to be placed at the back of the neck, and the negative pole should be stroked over the muscles, while the strength of current used ought to be just enough to evoke a distinct contraction of the muscle. The current should be applied to the tongvie and palate as well as to the facial muscles when there is bulbar paralysis. Massage not only improves the nutrition of the muscles, but may possibly reduce the amount of spasm in the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis form of the disease, while passive movements are of service in preventing or reducing contracture. Bulbar Paralysis—Definition.—-An affection in which the lesion is in the medulla oblongata and pons, or in which it involves the cranial nerves derived from these parts, so that para- lysis of the lips, tongue, palate, pharynx, and larynx results, and in consequence there is articulatory disturbance of speech, which is also nasal in quality, difficulty in swallowing, and it may be aphonia. Cases of bulbar paralysis fall into one of two classes, acute or chronic, according to the mode of onset of the symptoms, and the former class includes a variety in which the onset is sudden, and another in which it is rapid, though not sudden. Moreover, the manifestations of the different forms of the affections differ accord- ing as the lesion is supra-nuclear, nuclear, or infra-nuclear in position. There are also two affections known respec- tively as " pseudo - bulbar paralysis" (double hemiplegia) and "asthenic bulbar paralysis" (myasthenia gravis) that may be considered with advantage in this connection. Acute Bulbar Paralysis.—The sudden form of acute paralysis is always due to a vascular lesion, most commonly thrombosis or embolism, though htiemorrhage accounts for some cases of the kind. Most of the people that are attacked are at or beyond the middle period of life, which is accounted for by the fre- quency of atheroma then, but young people may suffer owing to embolism, or as a result of thrombosis consequent on syphilitic arteritis. The onset is quite sudden : a patient may go to bed feeling perfectly well, and may wake next morning and find himself paralysed, or the attack may come on during the day, in whicli case giddiness is commonly experienced, and the patient may vomit. Consciousness is lost in some cases. The paralysis that results is usually bilateral, but commonly affects struc- tures on the two sides unequally and irregularly ; it is exceptional to meet with strictly unilateral paralysis, though cases of the kind do occur. The lips, tongue, soft palate, pharynx, and larynx may all be involved. The palate hangs motionless during attempts at phonation, the tongue can neither be protruded nor moved from side to side in the mouth, and the lips cannot be pursed as in the attempt to whistle. Articulation may be impossible and phonation weak, while deglutition is difficult, and food either regurgitates through the nose or enters the larynx and induces coughing. Instead of complete paralysis of such wide range the palsy may be less severe, and some parts may be affected while others escape. Thus, with complete paralysis of the tongue308 PARALYSIS only one side of the palate may be affected, and the larynx may escape, or the palate and pharynx may be affected while the tongue and larynx escape. On the other hand, even with palsy of partial distribution the lesion may be more widespread so as to occasion paralysis in the distribution of other cranial nerves, as, for instance, the facial, the motor or sensory division of the fifth, or both. Moreover, the effects of the lesion may be still more widely felt, in that there may be weakness in the limbs, usually hemiplegic in distribution, or blunting of sensibility on one side of the body, and in the absence of objective signs there may, nevertheless, be subjective sensations such as numbness or tingling in these parts. Such widespread manifestations are especially liable to be met with at the outset, whereas the symptoms may subsequently clear up wholly or partially, leaving only the bulbar paralysis, which also commonly improves to some extent, though a variable degree of defect of this kind is permanent. Indeed, when seen in after years the patient's condition may closely re- semble that met with in chronic bulbar paralysis due to progressive degeneration of the nuclei of the bulb; but unlike that affec- tion there is no tendency for the paralysis to progress. There is an acute inflammatory form of bulbar paralysis in which the onset though rapid is not sudden; several hours, or even a few days, may elapse before the maximum effect of the lesion is produced. The morbid process that attacks the bulbar nuclei under these circumstances is the same as that met with in acute poliomyelitis, in which the grey matter of the anterior horns of the spinal cord is the seat of the lesion. The changes consist in destruction of the cells of the nuclei, swelling and disintegration of the nerve fibres, dilatation of the blood-vessels, which are engorged, and exudation of leucocytes, or even actual small extravasations of blood. The attack is ushered in by febrile disturb- ance, and with the rise of temperature malaise and headache are experienced, while vomiting occurs in some cases, and there may be diarrhoea. The precise distribution of the paralysis varies in different cases. There may be difficulty in swallowing, paralysis of the palate, tongue, and commonly of the face also, notably its lower half. Like poliomyelitis which affects the spinal cord, parts may be picked out while others escape, so that the face and tongue may be only affected on one side, although both sides of the palate are paralysed and deglutition is difficult. Chronic Bulbar Paralysis. — This variety of bulbar paralysis is due to either nuclear or infra-nuclear lesions. The nuclear form has already been described in conjunction with progressive muscular atrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; but we have yet to deal with the chronic forms of infra - nuclear bulbar paralysis, including the effects of lesions of the bulbar nerves outside the cranial cavity. Infra-nuclear Bulbar Paralysis.—The group- ing of the symptoms differs according to whether the nerves are implicated in the intra- medullary part of their course, or whether they are affected outside the medulla oblongata before they leave the cranial cavity, and there is a further difference in the symptomatology when the nerves are involved outside the cranial cavity. Intra-medullary lesions are rare, but may occasion a form of crossed paralysis in which half of the tongue and soft palate and one vocal cord are all paralysed on the same side, while the limbs are affected on the opposite side, and the face escapes. Hemiansesthesia may also be present on the side that the limbs are paralysed. The affected part of the tongue wastes, and the muscles of this side of the organ, together with those of the corresponding half of the palate, show the reaction of degeneration on electrical examination. Extra-medullary lesions occur more frequently, and are most often due to syphilitic affections, either gumma or chronic meningitis ; but simple meningitis may also lead to the symptoms that characterise this form of bulbar paralysis, as may tumours that are situated near the med- ulla. The symptoms that arise are paralysis of half of the tongue and palate, together with similar affection of the vocal cord on the same side; but what is distinctive of a lesion in this situation is the association of paralysis of the sterno-mastoid and upper part of the trapezius with the bulbar paralysis, owing to implication of the spinal accessory nerve. The muscles and the affected half of the tongue waste, and present the reaction of degeneration on electrical stimulation. As the structures on one side are alone affected, no bulbar symptoms arise, for as long as the muscles of the opposite side are in- tact no difficulty in speaking or in swallowing is experienced. Extra-cranial affections, such as caries, tumours, cellulitis, or peripheral neuritis may cause paralysis in the distribution of the lower bulbar nerves by affecting them after they have left the cranial cavity, and it is easy to mistake cases of this kind for those due to intracranial lesions; indeed, the differential diagnosis may be most difficult. Caries or new growth, by involving the pharyngeal plexus of nerves, may lead to paralysis of the palate without affection of the tongue or larynx, while neuritis may cause weakness of the tongue, palate, and vocal cords ; or only a single nerve may be affected, as, for instance, one hypoglossal, with paralysis and atrophy of the corresponding half of the tongue. PSEUDO - BULBAR PARALYSIS (Doublc Hcmi-309 PARALYSIS plegia).—In that the muscles supplied by bulbar nerves are represented in both cerebral hemi- spheres, a lesion in one hemisphere cannot cause paralysis of these muscles, and, accord- ingly, bulbar symptoms do not result from unilateral cerebral lesions. When there is a lesion in both cerebral hemispheres, however, and double hemiplegia results, bulbar symptoms are present, and the condition has been desig- nated " pseudo-bulbar paralysis." In these cases there is always a history of two attacks of hemiplegia, first on one side and then on the other. With the first attack no bulbar symptoms arise other than the ordinary articu- latory difficulty of speech commonly present in hemiplegia; but if a second attack causes paralysis of the other half of the body bulbar symptoms result. There may be inability to raise the upper lip so as to show the teeth; the tongue is not properly protruded; speech is impossible, or is characterised by a marked nasal quality, or the patient may even be unable to phonate. Swallowing is difficult, and the soft palate may not move at all, or but little, on attempts at phonation. Despite these defects the muscles do not atrophy: they respond normally on electrical excitation, and reflex action is preserved in the soft palate and pharynx. The limbs are weak on both sides, though like the face the side more recently affected may be weaker than that first attacked (see also "Hemiplegia," vol. iv. p. 165). Asthenic bulbar pa^^alysis (Myasthenia gravis) is described elsewhere {see vol. vi.). Diagnosis.—The problems to be discussed in the diagnosis of bulbar paralysis differ according to whether the acute or chronic form of the affection is under consideration. The first point to be decided in a case of acute bulbar paralysis is whether the symptoms are due to a lesion in the pons or medulla, or whether the case is one of pseudo-bulbar paralysis consequent on a lesion in each cerebral hemisphere. In the latter class of case there is always a history of an attack of hemiplegia at some time before the attack in which the bulbar symptoms arise; the reflex irritability of the palate and pharynx is preserved, the muscles do not waste, and they respond normally on electrical excitation. If it is decided that the lesion is in the bulb, it next becomes a question as to whether it is supra-nuclear, nuclear, or infra-nuclear in posi- tion. In such considerations we receive valuable help from the state of nutrition of the affected muscles, their mode of response on electrical stimulation, and the state of reflex excitability of the palate and pharynx. If the lesion is situated in the motor path above the nuclei of the bulbar nerves, then the muscles do not waste; they continue to respond normally on electrical stimulation, and the reflex action of the palate and pharynx is preserved; but if the nuclei, or the nerves in their intra-medullary course after they have emerged from their nviclei, are involved the affected muscles waste, as may be determined in the tongue and lips. Moreover, the atrophied muscles present the reaction of degeneration. The alterations in the electrical excitability of the muscles can be determined in the palate as well as in the tongue; and, moreover, the reflex excitability of the palate and phai'ynx are either diminished or abolished. It is usually difficult to discriminate between cases in which the defects are due to affection of the bulbar nerves, as opposed to implication of their nuclei, in that the cases have so many points in common. We, however, derive some help from the fact that lesions which involve some of the nuclei of cranial nerves occasion paralysis of more muscles than are supplied by the nerve itself. Thus a lesion that involves the hypoglossal nuclei may cause paralysis of the orbicularis oris as well as of the tongue, whereas when the nerve is affected the tongue is alone paralysed. So, too, the proximity of the hypoglossal nuclei to each other makes it unlikely that one would be involved in a lesion without the other, except in poliomyelitis. On the other hand, the hypoglossal nerve is sufficiently near to the pyramidal tract to make some implication of the motor path possible when a lesion involves this nerve in its intra- medullary course, hence evidence of crossed hemiplegia is in favour of a lesion of the nerve as opposed to affection of its nucleus. The points that serve to distinguish the chronic nuclear form from asthenic bulbar paralysis (myasthenia gravis) are referred to in connection with the latter affection {see " Myas- thenia Gravis," vol. vi.). Cases in which an acute lesion has caused widespread defects in the distribution of the bulbar nerves are distinguished from chronic nuclear bulbar paralysis by the history of acute onset and by the non-progressive character of the affection. The same facts that help us to decide between nuclear and infra-nuclear affections when the lesion is acute hold good when the chronic forms of bulbar paralysis are under consideration. Extra-medullary lesions are almost always uni- lateral, and are further characterised by para- lysis of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid, in conjunction with similar affection of the half of the tongue, palate, and larynx on the same side. Prognosis.—In acute bulbar paralysis the chief danger is that the patient may die when the manifestations are still acute ; but many of them survive this stage, and prognosis then becomes much better than in the chronic forms of bulbar paralysis, for even complete recovery is possible, though rare, while some improve- ment results in all patients that do not succumb during the acute stage. Most improvementPAKALYSIS 310 may be expected when the lesion is supra- nuclear, and least when the nucleus is involved. When cases that are due to vascular lesions are under consideration, it must be remembered that both thrombosis and embolism may recur, and that although recovery may result after one attack a fatal issue may be determined by some future attack. The chronic degenerative form of bulbar paralysis always terminates in death, and that usually within two years from the onset of symptoms. Extra-medullary lesions are less serious than intra-medullary, and owing to the possible beneiicial influences of treatment, syph- ilitic affections are the least serious. Tumours in this situation are usually rapidly fatal. Treatment.—In cases of sudden onset, when there is reason to suppose that thrombosis con- sequent on syphilitic arteritis is the cause of the bulbar symptoms, energetic treatment by mercury and iodide of potassium ought to be adopted. Apai-t from this the principal things to be attended to in acute cases are the feeding of the patients and the treatment of the paralysis that remains after the acute stage of the illness is over. When the patient is unable to swallow he must be fed by the nasal tube. The jjara- lysis calls for no special treatment wheia the lesion is supra-nuclear ; but when it is nuclear or infra-nuclear the muscles atrophy, therefore the constant current ought to be applied daily to all the affected parts. Of internal remedies strychnia, iron, and quinine are most useful, and the strychnia may be given with advantage by subcutaneous injection, when there are indica- tions of respiratory or cardiac failure during the acute stage of the disease. The points to be attended to in the treatment of cases of chronic progressive bulbar paralysis have already been indicated (see p. 307). In chronic cases in which the lesion is infra-nuclear, antisyphilitic treatment by mercury and iodide of potassium has to be relied on, in the hope that the condition may prove to be syphilitic. Similarly in children cod-liver oil, malt, iron, and other tonics are administered owing to the possibility that a tumour may be tuberculous. The only other treatment that is possible is sur- gical intervention in extra-medullary tumours. IV. Paralysis with Tremor or Ataxy Disseminated Sclerosis.—Definition.—A dis- ease in which areas of sclerosis are scattered irregularly throughout the nervous system, and in which the most characteristic symptoms ai-e a combination of spastic and ataxic paraplegia, loss of control over the sphinctei's, notably that of the bladder, weakness with intention tremor in the arms, nystagmus, optic nerve atrophy, and scanning speech. Etiology.—Hereditai'y transmission of the dis- ease has only been very exceptionally observed. More often there is an indirect neuropathic inheritance in the form of some other nervous disease that has attacked some of the patient's ancestors. Young adults are most commonly affected between the ages of twenty and thirty years, and it is quite exceptional for the disease to commence later than forty. Cases have been described in children, but there seems little doubt that the majority, if not all that were recorded by earlier writers, were not genuine. Owing to the protracted course of the malady few of the suspected cases came to autopsy in childhood, and those that did, and that were supposed to establish the occurrence of the disease in children, are now discredited. Competent observers have, however, since recorded cases of the affection in children, and in some instances it has been possible to trace symptoms of the affection met with in adults back to childhood for their com- mencement. One sex is as liable to be attacked as is the other, though in the statistics of dif- ferent observers one or the other preponderates. There has been a strong tendency among modem writers on the subject to regard the disease as due to the action of toxic agents on the nervous system, and Oppenheim considers that certain occupations where people are impregnated with metallic poisons, notably lead, are responsible for some cases of the disease. Alcohol has been credited with a similar influence. But in that it is quite impossible to discover any evidence of such intoxications in the large majority of people attacked, some more subtle influence probably underlies the pathology, even in those cases where toxic agents are accessory factors in causation. The infective fevers have been supposed to supply the intoxication, and prominent among those suspected of this have been enteric fever, influenza, and malaria ; but it is obviously diffi- cult to disprove that these febrile illnesses have not merely lighted into activity a morbid process that had its inception at some antecedent period. There seems little doubt that the cases supposed to be the outcome of malaria have not been genuine, but that they have merely presented a group of nervous symptoms, consequent on the intoxication, which have resembled the mani- festations of disseminated sclerosis. Rheumatism and pneumonia have each preceded the appear- ance of the disease in a few cases, and some observers have attempted to establish an etio- logical i-elationshij) between syphilis and dis- seminated sclerosis, but there seems to be little justification for this. The antecedent disease may be some affection of the nervous system, most often some form of myelitis. Blows and injuries have been regarded as causes, as have exposure to cold and chills ; indeed, some observers have considered the latter influences as the most common causes of the malady. It is, however, obviously difficult to exclude the possibility that trauma or cold only serve to stimulate into activity some pre-existing311 PARALYSIS though dormant morbid condition. The same may be said of fatigue, which probably only serves to intensify phenomena that really existed, though they had not been previously noticed. The same relationship exists between dissemi- nated sclerosis and emotion; moreover, any of these influences are capable of causing relapses, or may accelerate the progress of the disease. So, too, the first manifestations of the malady have been observed during pregnancy, and it is certain that pregnancy and parturition exercise an unfavourable influence on the course of dis- seminated sclerosis. Morbid Anatomy.—Patches of sclerosis are scattered at random throughout the nervous system, any part of which is liable to be attacked, though there appears to be a predilection for certain regions. The areas of sclerosis are usually found both in the brain and spinal cord, though in a few exceptional cases that have been recorded it is possible that the disease was really limited to the brain or cord, and that islets of sclerosis were not overlooked in the parts sup- posed to be unaffected. The peripheral nerves would appear to be much less liable to attack; but they have not received the same amount of careful examination that has been bestowed on the central nervous system, so that it is possible that future investigations may prove that the peripheral nerves do not enjoy the immunity that has been supposed. Although the whole nervous system is liable to be attacked there are certain seats of election ; thus, in the cerebral hemispheres the white matter of the centrum ovale, and the grey matter of the basal ganglia, are much more often invaded than is the grey matter of the cortex. In the spinal cord the patches of sclerosis are most plentiful in the white matter, and invasion of the grey matter is less frequently seen, though it does occur, and an island of sclerosis may be even limited to the grey matter in some part of the cord. The cerebellum is, as a rule, less affected than other parts of the central nervous system, and, as in the case of the cerebrum, the white matter is more often attacked than the grey cortex. No parts are respected in the crus, pons, and medulla oblongata, where the sclerotic areas are scattered at random through the grey and white matter. We possess very little definite information with regard to the peripheral nervous system, except in so far as certain of the cranial nerves and spinal nerve roots are concerned. Sclerosis may invade the nucleus of a nerve or its fibres in their intra-medullary course, or after they have left the central nervous system. Any of the cranial nerves may be thus affected, though the optic and olfactory nerves are most com- monly attacked. They have, however, been found intact when other cranial nerves have been invaded. In the case of the optic nerves the patches of sclerosis may occur in some part of the nerve itself, or in the tract or chiasma. Both motor and sensory spinal nerve roots may show changes, and the nerves of the cauda equina have been found degenerated, so that it is possible that more systematic examination of the peripheral nerves will reveal changes in them also. As seen with the unaided eye, before the brain and spinal cord have been placed in a preservative fluid, the islands of sclerosis are of a warm grey colour, or they are reddish- grey or brown, and they have a peculiar trans- lucent appearance; indeed, they may be quite gelatinous looking. They vary in size from quite minute islets up to patches two or more centimetres in diameter, and they appear to be sharply demarcated from the surrounding healthy tissues. These areas of sclerosis may be seen on the external surface of the part affected, or they may be only revealed on section. Microscopical examination may confirm the impression received on macroscopic examination, that the transition from normal to abnormal structure is abrupt, but in other cases the transition is seen to be gradual. The former state of things is especially liable to be seen at the lateral limits of an area of sclerosis which affects a tract of parallel fibres, whereas the ends of such a patch may show a gradual transition from healthy to morbid structure. One of the most extraordinary features of the disease is the remarkable power of resistance shown by the axis cylinders, for even when the myelin sheaths of the nerve fibres are com- pletely destroyed, the axis cylinders, as a rule, remain intact. This escape of the axis cylinders has been supposed to explain the still more remarkable fact that secondary degeneration of the nerve element does not occur, except very rarely, and then limited, as a rule, to a very short distance in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the patch of sclerosis which causes it. Thus sclerotic tissue may interrupt the various long tracts in the spinal cord, and other parts of the central nervous system, without any ascending or descending degeneration resulting. The cell bodies of the neurones also escape until late in the course of the disease, as a rule, and much sclerosis may exist in their immediate neighbourhood without the cells themselves showing any evidence of structural change. The escape of this part of the peripheral motor neurones, in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, explains why muscular atrophy and the reaction of degeneration are so rarely met with in disseminated sclerosis. There is marked proliferation of the inter- stitial tissue, and large numbers of glial cells are, as a rule, seen; the dense mass of fibrils are arranged longitudinally when they occur in nerve tracts of parallel fibres, but they form aPARALYSIS 312 feltwork of interlacing fibrils when seen in the grey matter, and the central part of such a mass is dense, while a loose meshwork is seen at the periphery where the connective-tissue fibrils radiate in all directions, and insinuate themselves between the nerve elements. In the earlier stages of the morbid process there is marked cell proliferation, but little evidence of fibrillary structure, while, when the disease is more advanced, the glial cells are more separated, and the meshwork of fibres becomes more evident. The oldest areas may appear homogeneous, and, in addition to the elements already described, they may contain large spider cells whose processes form a meshwork the interstices of which are homogeneous in appearance. The blood-vessels remain normal in some cases, while in others their walls are thickened, and the perivascular spaces may be dilated. The vessels are said to be narrowed, and even thrombosed in some cases. The capillaries may be increased in numbers, and they may be engorged, so that white blood cells escape into the surrounding tissues, and even small htemorrhages may occur. Such slight thickenings or adhesions of the pia mater as may occur are clearly secondary to affection of the nerve elements. Pathology. — There is little that is certain and much that is debatable with regard to the pathology of disseminated sclerosis. We are not yet in a position to decide how the disease originates, nor are we able to say whether the morbid process is primarily interstitial, or whether the nerve elements succumb first. The former is the view that is most widely accepted, and some observers indeed regard the disease as a form of chronic myelitis; others, however, hold that a parenchymatous degener- ation of the nerve elements occurs first, and that the hyperplasia of the interstitial tissue is secondary to this, a view that accords well with the growing belief that the morbid changes are induced by the action of a toxic agent. Moreover, it has been suggested that a pro- liferation of interstitial tissue, initiated in this way, may, by its extension, lead to secondary destruction of the nerve elements outside the original starting-point of the morbid process in each affected area. Another hypothesis is that the morbid changes are secondary to affection of the blood-vessels; but it seems more probable that the altered state of the vessels and the morbid changes in the nerve elements are due to a common cause. Yet another suggestion that has been made is that the morbid process is a multiple gliosis, which depends on con- genital influences, but that although essentially endogenous, the impetus to disturbance may be due to some exogenous cause such as an acute disease or a trauma. Symptoms.—Although the disease is essen- tially cerebro-spinal, and there is little to war- rant the distinction of a cerebral as opposed to a spinal form, yet in its clinical manifestations symptoms due to affection of one part of the central nerve axis may dominate the clinical picture ; when this is so it is much more common to find that the symptoms indicate an affection of the spinal cord and not the brain, for, as a rule, when cerebral symptoms are pronounced, there are also indications of affection of the spinal cord. The mode of onset and subsequent course of the illness present great variations, but in the large majority of cases the most constant symp- tom of the earlier stages of the established dis- ease is paraplegia, in which the weakness is associated with spasticity, and it may be also ataxy. Many cases begin in this way, and the only diagnosis warranted by the physical signs at this stage is "primary lateral sclerosis" where spasticity exists alone, and "ataxic para- plegia" when ataxy is added. In either case, however, other phenomena subsequently appear which establish the diagnosis of disseminated sclerosis. In a very large proportion of cases, although some form of paraplegia is commonly present when the patient first comes under observation, there is a history of some antecedent manifesta- tion of the disease, of which there may still be tangible evidence, or which may have entirely disappeared. Indeed, these symptoms are so fleeting that they are commonly regarded as " hysterical," more especially when women are attacked in this way, and when physical or mental shock has immediately preceded the appearance of the symptoms. Loss of sight in one eye, diplopia, and aphonia are some of the evanescent symptoms that have been noticed. So, too, some part may be affected by numb- ness, or some other subjective sensation such as "coldness," "deadness," or "pins and needles." Probably the most common of the evanescent symptoms is, however, loss of motor power in one or more limbs, while in exceptional cases convulsions occur. The great feature of this type of the disease is that these early symptoms may entirely pass away, but they return in the same or different form, and with similar abruptness, at some subsequent period; or, without wholly clearing up, they may lessen and may remain in abeyance for months or years. Even where recovery is supposed to have taken place, close inteiTogation will often elicit that sight has been a little defective at times; that diplopia has occasion- ally been noticed ; that the patient has limped when tired, or that from time to time she has been a little hysterical in manner. These are sure indications that there is but a temporary lull, and that the disease will certainly burst into activity again at some future period, near or remote, when the same symptoms may i-eturnPARALYSIS 313 in more pronounced form, or new symptoms may arise. Fresh activity of the morbid pro- cess may occur without obvious exciting cause in some cases; while in others it can be clearly traced to some debilitating influence such as pregnancy and parturition, some form of acute illness, privation, exposure to cold, traumatism, or mental shock. Even when the symptoms are in the main progressive, there is a remarkable tendency to periodicity, transient improvements being followed by renewed activity of the disease. Many such remissions may occur before death, and, although this event may be delayed for a great many years, it is the only way in which this disease terminates. The classical symptoms of the established disease are spastic paraplegia with or without ataxy added, exaggerated tendon-jerks, some defect of the sphincter of the bladder, intention tremor, which may be more widespread, but which is usually most pronounced in the upper limbs ; nystagmus, optic nerve atrophy, scanning- utterance and psychical disturbances, notably of an emotional character. It must not, how- ever, be supposed that all of these symptoms are present in every case of the disease, or that the absence of any of them necessarily militates against the diagnosis. It would, for example, be as erroneous to suppose that the diagnosis of disseminated sclerosis is not warranted in the absence of nystagmus, as to imagine that the diagnosis of tabes is not justified if the pupil reaction to light is preserved. Nevertheless, most if not all of the symptoms that have just been narrated, as a rule, appear before the disease has completed its course. So varied are the manifestations of this ubiquitous disease that it will be of greater advantage to consider the individual symptoms in detail than to attempt to sketch a clinical picture that will be suited to all cases. Psychical State.—The patients are commonly emotional, and laugh immoderately, or cry without adequate cause. Later in the course of the disease their manner may suggest a state of well-being that is not justified by the physical condition, while still later they may become fatuous, and may ultimately sink into a state of dementia. Speech.—True aphasic defects are very rare, but speech is commonly altered in a character- istic manner that has been variously described as "scanning," "syllabic," or "staccato." Words are spoken slowly, and with pauses between the different syllables, each of which is unduly accentuated; but the end of the word may be slurred over, and words may be unduly separated from each other The disease may, however, reach a stage when other symptoms make the diagnosis clear, and yet speech may not be affected. The voice is commonly mono- tonous, and it may be tremulous, or it may be nasal in quality owing to paralysis of the palate, or various degrees of aphonia may be met with. The first words of a sentence may be spoken better than those towards the end of it, as the muscles concerned with speech and respiration in common with other muscles in this disease are easily fatigued. Ocular Phenomena. — Defects of vision are common, and these may or may not be attended with changes that can be detected in the optic nerves on ophthalmoscopic examination. Loss of sight may be one of the earliest symptoms, and may be rapid or even sudden in onset, while in its subsequent course remissions may occur in the way that is so characteristic of many symptoms in this disease. Sight is usually only defective in one eye at first, and vision may remain good in the other eye for years. But in such long-standing cases changes can be seen in both discs on ophthalmoscopic examination, though they are only slight on the side on which vision is not affected. The optic discs become pale, one eye is affected before the other, and the temporal half of the disc is most commonly attacked when the change is partial. The appearances are due to simple atrophy of the optic nerves, which is the usual condition met with; but some observers have described slight optic neuritis in a few cases. There may be amblyopic defects of vision, and even con- centric limitation of the field, and yet the ophthalmoscope may reveal no change in the optic nerve, a state of things probably due to retrobulbar affection of the nerve. On the other hand the disc may be pale, and yet the acuity of vision may be normal; indeed, such pallor may precede any defect of vision for many years. Central scotoma for colours, and con- centric limitation of the visual fields are met with in a considerable proportion of cases. Nystagmus is the most common affection of the ocular muscles, though it is not present in a considerable proportion of cases; it is most frequently horizontal, but may be vertical, rotatory, or of mixed form. The nystagmus may be spontaneous, but more often it is only evoked on voluntary movement of the eyes, in which case it is more commonly evoked by lateral movements than when the patient looks up or down. Both eyes are usually affected, although the nystagmus may be dissimilar in the two ; and in rare instances it affects one eye alone ; it may only appear when the eyes are turned to one side, or it may then be more pronounced than when they are turned in the opposite direction. Paralysis of ocular muscles occurs in a much smaller percentage of cases, and though defect of this kind may be present when the patient comes under observation, in many cases there is only a history of it, as diplopia or squint once present has disappeared. The palsies are com- monly of central origin, and conjugate turning of the eyes to one side and convergence arePARALYSIS 3U most often defective. Of isolated affections of the ocular nerves paralysis of the sixth is the most frequent, though the third may be simi- larly affected, and the fourth occasionally suffers alone. The pupils are usually equal and react normally; but they may be unequal, and, exceptionally, they do not respond to light or on accommodation, the latter being the more common defect. Motor Disorders. — In addition to the dis- turbances of speech and the defects of the ocular muscles, motor disorders occur in the trunk and limbs. The most characteristic of these is a peculiar jerky tremor that appears when a voluntary movement is made, and which ceases when the muscles are brought to rest again. This intention tremor consists in a to-and-fro jerking, which is slowly rhythmical, and which increases in range towards the com- pletion of some voluntary act. It is most often seen in the arms, and may be so violent that a glass of water cannot be raised to the lips with- out its being spilled ; so, too, the patient may be unable to control the tremor sufficiently to be able to touch the point of the nose, or some other object. In slight cases the tremor is only observed towards the completion of some such act, and it is much smaller in range. Similar unsteadiness may be seen in the neck muscles, so that the head shakes as long as it is sup- ported on the shoulders, but all tremor ceases immediately the head is allowed to rest on a pillow. Tremor of the trunk may be observed when the patient is sitting or standing, and tremor may be so pronounced in the lower extremities that standing becomes impossible. The facial muscles may be similarly affected, the nystagmus is of this character, and even the vocal cords may present the same defect, which may be evidenced by a tremulous char- acter of the voice, and which may be seen on laryngoscopic examination. Motor paralysis is a constant feature of the disease ; but the degree and distribution of the motor weakness varies greatly in different cases ; moreover, remissions and exacerbations occur in the same patient, more especially in the earlier stage of the malady. It is not common for severe paralysis to result; all movements can usually be performed, though in a slow and feeble way, and fatigue is as a rule readily induced. The lower extremities ai'e most often affected, but the arms are almost as frequently involved. In the former the weakness is com- bined with spasticity, and in the latter with intention tremor — a combination that is also present in the neck, and which probably ac- counts for the speech defect in disseminated sclei'osis. Palsies also occur in the distribution of the cranial nerves, so that in addition to affection of the ocular muscles, those supplied by the facial nerve, the muscles of mastication, tongue, palate, and vocal cords may all suffer. Gait.—There may be inability to stand or walk, but when progression is possible the gait is most often paretic, and there is some spasticity and ataxy as well; either of the added factors may be the prominent feature, so that the gait may be mainly spastic, or markedly ataxic. When there is ataxy it may be of the form seen in tabes, in which the feet are raised too high and the heels are stamped to the ground, or the inco-ordination may be more of the character of that seen in cerebellar disease. The two limbs may be affected differently, or only one may show any defect at first, and rapid variations may occur in the gait as in other symptoms of the disease. Muscular Rigidity.—The muscles commonly become spastic, especially those of the lower limbs, though the muscles of the upper extremi- ties also show some evidence of this. Extensor spasm preponderates in the lower extremities at first, but later in the course of the disease the flexors gain the ascendency, so that the heels may be pressed against the nates, and limbs become fixed in this position in a state of contracture. Tendon-Jerks.—The tendon-jerks are as a rule increased, both in the upper and lower limbs, and it may even be possible to evoke an active jaw-jerk. Ankle clonus is commonly present. Sensory defects are usually present in some form. A feeling of giddiness is common, and may be more or less persistent, or it may only occur in paroxysms; the quieter the patient can remain, the greater the freedom from giddi- ness, as movement of any kind aggravates the condition. Headache and pain in the back may be troublesome symptoms, and cramp-like pains may occur in the limbs, and cause the patient much suffering; but lancinating pains, girdle sensations, and gastric crises are rare. Subjective sensations of numbness and the like are common in the parts presided over by both cranial and spinal nerves, though the hands and feet are the parts most frequently affected in this way. Although a subjective feeling of numbness may be pronounced it may not be possible to detect any objective blunting of sensibility in the part; but when discovered, aniesthesia is usually most marked in the hands and feet. Some antesthesia is more commonly present than was at one time supposed, but it is subject to such great variations that it is not surprising that it often escapes detection. Although permanent anaesthesia may occur, a part that shows distinct blunting of sensibility at one time may appear to be quite jesthetic on another occasion. There may be blunting of sensibility to all forms of impressions, or there may be more difficulty in appreciating one form of stimulus than another. Hemiana;sthesia may be present, and may be the direct outcome of the disease, or it may be an added hysterical phenomenon.PARALYSIS 315 There may be considerable disturbance of the muscular sense, either alone or in conjunction with blunting of cutaneous sensibility, so that Romberg's sign may be well marked when the patient stands with the feet together and the eyes closed. Siiperjicial Reflexes. — The most important change that occurs in connection with the superficial reflexes is that on stimulation of the soles of the feet the toes extend instead of flexing as they do in the normal individual. This phenomenon, which indicates affection of the pyramidal fibres, is commonly seen in dis- seminated sclerosis. Some observers attach importance to absence of the abdominal reflexes as a diagnostic sign, as it is said that these reflexes cannot be obtained in a large proportion of cases of disseminated sclerosis. Sphincters. — Slight loss of control over the sphincter of the bladder is commonly an early symptom, and may only amount to some pre- cipitancy of micturition or hesitation at the commencement of the act; but in other cases the defect is more marked ; and there may also be a little weakness of the anal sphincter. Severe affection of the sphincters, leading to complete loss of control over the bladder and rectum, does not usually occur until late in the course of the disease. Sexiuil Disturbances. — There may be some loss of sexual power early in the course of the affection, but in other cases there is increased excitability. Vaso-7iiofor and trophic disturbances, though not frequent, are more common than is gener- ally supposed. Some oedema of the feet and ankles may appear early, and, though most noticeable when the limbs are dependent, it may persist in some degree when the limbs are in a horizontal position. The phenomena that constitute erythromelalgia are present in some cases, in others bleb-like blisters appear on the skin, whilst in others swelling of joints has been observed, notably the small joints of the hands and feet. The surface temperature may be lowered in some part, as, for instance, a limb, and there may be sweating of the part. Bed- sores belong to the final stages of the disease, when absolute loss of control over the sphincters is common, and contributes to their production. The hair is said to fall out in some cases, and trophic changes may occur in the nails. Atrophy of muscles has been observed in a few cases, but this is rare. Palpitation, dyspnoea, and the appearance of sugar in the urine have been attributed to the occurrence of patches of sclerosis in the medulla oblongata. Diagnosis.—There is no difficulty in arriving at a correct diagnosis in a case of disseminated sclerosis, in which the manifestations conform to the classical account of the affection ; but very great difficulty is commonly experienced in recognising the aberrant cases which form so large a proportion of the total number of cases of the disease. Hysteria.—No organic disease of the nervous system is so liable to be mistaken for hysteria as is disseminated sclerosis in its early stage, and in no organic aff'ection is the structural basis so commonly obscured by added hysterical phenomena, so that the detection of hysterical stigmata does not exclude the possibility of an organic substratum. Both affections occur most frequently in young adults; the onset of both may be intimately related to some mental shock or physical injury, which may be of an insignificant character. Intention tremor has been described in hysteria, as has nystagmus, though there ought to be little likelihood of mistaking for true nystagmus the jerky un- steadiness of the eyes which occurs in hysteria, and which is commonly associated with blinking movements of the lids. In attempts to differ- entiate the two affections, the value of the ophthalmoscope cannot be overrated, for the detection of structural changes in the optic nerves places the organic nature of the disease beyond doubt. True nystagmus and aff'ection of the sphincters are also valuable indications of the organic character of the affection, as are ankle clonus, and extensor response as the plantar reflex. Primary Spastic Paraplegia.—In that some cases of disseminated sclerosis present spastic paraplegia as their earliest and only manifesta- tion, for a time, it is obviously impossible to decide at this stage whether symptoms of the more widespread disease will supervene later. The subsequent course of the case can alone reveal its real nature. In watching for the development of other symptoms, care must be exercised not to mistake for the intention tremor and nystagmus of disseminated sclerosis a slight unsteadiness in the upper limbs, and a little nystagmoid jerking which may super- vene, in association with increased activity of the arm-jerks, in cases of spastic paraplegia, presumably due to myelitis limited to the caudal half of the spinal cord. Ataxic Para2)legia.—Much of what has been said with regard to spastic paraplegia applies to this aff'ection also, for many cases of dis- seminated sclerosis come under observation at a stage when the only manifestations present are those which characterise ataxic paraplegia; the subsequent course of the case can therefore alone definitely determine the diagnosis. The large majority of such cases ultimately prove to be disseminated sclerosis. Subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord in its earlier stages is not infrequently mistaken for the paraplegic form of dissemi- nated sclerosis in its early stage ; but combined degeneration of the cord is much the more probable when the aff'ection is symmetrical,316 PARALYSIS and all four limbs show signs of spasticity and ataxy. The patients are usually older than those most commonly affected by disseminated sclerosis ; functional manifestations are absent; there is not, as a rule, any tendency to remis- sion of symptoms, although slight nystagmoid jerkings may occur; pronounced nystagmus is never seen, and the sphincters rarely suffer so early as in disseminated sclerosis, although they become completely paralysed sooner. Anaemia is frequently a prominent symptom, as is irregular pyrexia. Hereditary Ataxy.—The cases of disseminated sclerosis that have been described in children have to be distinguished from Friedreich's ataxy. The occurrence of the disease in more than one member of the family, absence of the knee-jerks, and the presence of lateral curvature of the spine and pes cavus serve to distinguish these cases from disseminated sclerosis. It may be more difficult to discriminate between cere- bellar heredo-ataxy and disseminated sclerosis, in that this form of ataxy does not become manifest until between the ages of twenty and thirty. The affection of more than one member of a family also serves as an aid in the diagnosis of these cases. Tabes.—When motor weakness is pronounced and ataxy slight, a little care may be needed to distinguish a case of tabes. Failure of the pupil to respond to light is an important point in diagnosis, as is absence of the knee-jerks, in that these defects are so rare in disseminated sclerosis. The patients are usually older, there is commonly a history of lightning pains, there is more frequently difficulty in passing water rather than loss of control over the sphincter of the bladder, and blunting sensibility is more pronounced and persistent. General -paralysis of the insane is distinguished by the fact that the patients are, as a rule, older. Moreover, there is commonly an antecedent history of syphilis; dementia is more pronounced, and is often preceded by mental exaltation; whereas dementia only occurs late in the course of disseminated sclerosis, and, beyond a manner suggesting a state of well-being that is not in keeping with the patient's physical condition, there is no exaltation. Cerebrospinal syphilis may give rise to mani- festations that resemble those produced by disseminated sclerosis; but nystagmus, inten- tion tremor, and scanning speech are wanting, while sensory symptoms, including those which suggest that the meninges are involved, are much more prominent, and paralysis of cranial nerves, hemiplegia, and dementia are all more common. In some cases, however, the doubt may be only dispelled by the results of anti- syphilitic treatment. Pseudosclerosis.—Cases of this kind have not been met with frecjuently enough to make them a serious obstacle in the diagnosis of dissemi- nated sclerosis. The clinical pictures of the two affections are, however, closely similar; but no structural lesions have been found in cases of pseudo-sclerosis adequate to explain the clinical symptoms (see p. 317). Cer-ebral Diplegia.—Jerky inco-ordination of the limbs, nystagmus, and spinal defect may make some of these cases resemble disseminated sclerosis ; but the fact that symptoms date from birth, or from early childhood, serve to suggest their real nature, and the courses of the two diseases are so different that it is rarely neces- sary to extend the observations over any great length of time before coming to a conclusion. Intracranial Tumours. — In cases in which the tumour is situated in the cerebellum, crus, or pons, the inco-ordination of movement that results may be mistaken for that produced by disseminated sclerosis, while a patch of sclerosis in the cerebellum or in one of its peduncles may give rise to symptoms simulating tumour in these situations. Pressure signs, such as headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis, are rarely wanting in cases of tumour, whereas such symp- toms are not prominent in disseminated sclerosis; and although optic neuritis is said to occur, in some cases, a condition of choked disc is never seen. Paralysis Agitans.—Patients affected by this disease are usually much older; the tremor is constant during repose, and may cease on volun- tary movement—it is always regular, even if extensive in range. The high-pitched piping voice, the mask-like face, and the fixed attitude all combine to make the diagnosis simple. Toxic tremors only bear a superficial resem- blance to the tremor of disseminated sclerosis, and, in addition to the fact that they are present during repose, the other symptoms of dissemi- nated sclerosis are wanting. It is conceivable that cases of chronic alcoholism with much tremor and nystagmoid twitchings of the eye- balls may give rise to the suspicion of dissemi- nated sclerosis ; but the tremor is fine and rapid, and affects the tongue as well as the hands; it is lessened by the administration of stimulants and aggravated when they are withheld. The subjects of mercurial tremor are usually in an advanced stage of cachexia which is unmistakable. Apojdexy.—The apoplectiform attacks that occur in disseminated sclerosis are distinguished from those of true apoplexy by the absence of premonitory symptoms and of initial fall of temperature. Moreover, their effects are always transitory, and they are not followed by signs of descending degeneration. Prognosis.—A fatal issue is inevitable; but nothing is more difficult than to foretell, with any decree of accuracy, the probable duration of life. The long periods during which the disease may appear to be stationary, or when actual improvement may occur, are largely re- sponsible for this uncertainty in prognosis.PAKALYSIS 317 When the disease manifests itself by spinal symptoms only, life is, as a rule, preserved much longer than when cerebral and bulbar symptoms appear early ; indeed, the occurrence of bulbar symptoms may be taken to indicate that the duration of life will be short. Cases that show a tendency to remission of symptoms live longer than those in which the disease appears to be steadily progressive; but after the manifestations of disseminated sclerosis become so pronounced that the typical clinical picture is seen, life is not, as a rule, prolonged beyond two or three years, though there are many notable exceptions to this rule. The degree of care that can be bestowed on the patient naturally influences prognosis, especially in the cases in which there is a tendency to trophic disturbance in the skin, retention of urine requiring the use of the catheter, or loss of control over the sphincters. There is great risk of cystitis and pyonephrosis, when there is severe affection of the sphincter of the bladder, so that when present this is a bad element in prognosis. Treatment.—No drug has any power of arrest- ing or retarding the progress of the disease, though silver, in the form of the nitrate or chloride, and arsenic, deserve a thorough trial in any case of the kind. The subcutaneous mode of administering these remedies has been recommended, and it is well to follow this plan in the case of the silver salts ; but there seems little advantage in administering the arsenic otherwise than by the stomach. Massage, hydro- pathic and electrical treatment, deserve careful trial, though the results are no more encourag- ing than those that attend the treatment of the disease by drugs. Massage and passive move- ments improve the nutrition of the muscles and lessen the tendency to permanent contracture; but it is necessary to employ these measures with caution, so as not to do harm by inducing undue fatigue. Skilled medical care and good nursing can do much that indirectly influences the course of the malady in a favourable manner, for there are many conditions that aggravate the disease and hasten its imfavourable progress. Most patients suffering from disseminated sclerosis bear cold badly, so that in addition to warm clothing residence in a warm climate during the winter is desirable when practicable. Rest is essential, and the nutrition of the patient must be maintained at as high a standard as possible by the administration of nutritious food, malt, cod-liver ail, and tonic medicines, while daily open-air carriage or wheel-chair exercise is no less important. Depressing emo- tions, mental or physical fatigue, injury, ex- posure to wet and cold, and excesses of all kinds must be studiously avoided, in that they exercise an unfavourable influence on the course of the disease. Female patients must especially be warned against pregnancy. Our knowledge of its etiology is not sufficiently precise to deter- mine what prophylactic measures, if any, are likely to prevent the disease. When there is reason to suspect that some slight and transitory affection of the nervous system is to be ascribed to commencing disseminated sclerosis, patients must be warned to keep up their nutrition and to avoid everything that is known to be prejudicial. A sufficiently close relationship appears to exist between the disease and the infective fevers to make it important that patients should be encouraged to rest and otherwise recuperate for some time after one of these illnesses, notably when there has been evidence of derangement of the nervous system during or following on the attack. Measvires for the prevention of intoxication by metallic poisons in the various trades are also important. Pseudo-Sclerosis.—A few cases have been recorded in which the symptoms during life resembled those of disseminated sclerosis, but on necropsy corresponding changes have not been found. Etiology.—Nothing definite is known as to the cause of the affection ; but the slight abnor- malities that have been detected post-mortem suggest that hereditary syphilis may have some influence in the production of the disease. It has also been supposed that alcohol and other poisons may have a similar influence; indeed, in one case, the illness commenced soon after an attack of enteric fever. The affection occurs in young people, and in one case it commenced as early as the age of twelve. Morbid Anatomy.—A firm, leathery consist- ence of the brain, especially in the occipital region, has been found in some of the cases ; but microscopical examination has not revealed any increase of interstitial tissue in the affected parts, and, moreover, the nerve fibres have been intact. There has been a very slight amount of degeneration in the crossed pyramidal tracts in the upper cervical region of the spinal cord, and in one case this could even be traced to the lumbar enlargement, while in another there was slight degeneration in the area of Gowers's tract, on both sides, in the cervical part of the cord. Pathology.—The morbid changes that have been discovered are not adequate to account for the clinical symptoms, and even these slight changes have not been present in all cases. The pathology of the affection is obscure, and, but for the possible influence of syphilis and other poisons, nothing is known of its mode of origin. A suggestion that the clinical pheno- mena are due to hysteria has been rejected by competent authorities. Symptoms.—The intellect may be weak; speech is usually somewhat scanning, and it may be nasal, or even imintelligible. The expression may be somewhat fixed, the movements of the eyes slow, and diplopia has been a symptom. Tremor may be seen in the tongue, and aboutPARALYSIS 318 the mouth and lower jaw ; the head may shake, as do the arms on voluntary movement—but the unsteadiness is not quite the same as the intention tremor of disseminated sclerosis. The limbs are weak, and all movements are per- formed slowly. The lower extremities are stiii" paradoxical contractions may occur, and the tendon-jerks are increased. There is very little, if any, blunting of cutaneous sensibility, and the sphincters are intact. The course of the disease is protracted, so that it may last as long as ten years; but during this period there are remissions and relapses from time to time. Moreover, apoj)lectiform attacks with transient symptoms of hemiplegia may occur. Paralysis Agitans.—Definition.—A disease characterised by tremor, associated with rigidity and muscular weakness. Etiology.—The malady occurs in the second half of life—it is rare before forty, and does not frequently occur after sixty ; the decade in which it most often makes its appearance is the fifth, but cases have been described in the second and even the first decade of life. The male sex is more prone to the affection than the female. Violent emotion would seem not infrequently to be an exciting cause of the disease—numerous cases are recorded as definitely following fright or some profound mental disturbance; while excitement and cold seem also to be antecedents. Many cases are attributed to injury, and the tremor may begin in the limb injured, and gradually spread to the other extremities. Some authors consider that heredity plays an important part in the disease, but the evidence on this is not very strong; this is, however, a point on which it is necessarily difficult to obtain evidence, as the patients already in advanced age themselves know or remember little with regard to their parents or grandparents ; never- theless, cases have been recorded in which members of the same family have been aff'ected. The disease may follow on acute specific fevers; typhoid, dysentery, influenza, and malaria have all been blamed, but it is worthy of note that paralysis agitans is more common in England than in malarious countries. Syphilis plays no part in the etiology of this disease. The occurrence of a tremor indistinguishable from that of paralysis agitans sometimes follows on an ordinary hemiplegia, and this tremor, like that of paralysis agitans, tends rather to cease than to increase on the attempt to perform any movement, and the general appearance of these patients is often singularly like that of patients suffering from paralysis agitans. Onset and Course.—The onset of the paralysis is as a rule gradual, sometimes pi-eceded for a considerable period by pains in the limbs and joints, and cramp in the feet and legs, or in others by a sense of extreme fatigue. In certain cases, however, the onset has been sudden and has followed on some fright or injury. When the onset is sudden it may at first only affect one limb, and may for a long time remain limited to that limb. Almost all observers are agreed that the disease usually commences in the hands, and that as it advances it affects first the leg on the same side, then passes to the arm on the opposite side, and finally to the leg of that side. There are, of course, many exceptions to this rule, and cases have been recorded in which the arm of one side and the leg of the opposite side were first aifected. The head is sometimes in- volved, and even the masseters, the tongue, and, still more rarely, some muscles of the face may be affected by tremor. Syinptoms. — The Attitude. — The attitude assumed by the patient is one of the most characteristic features of the disease. He stands with the back bent, the head forward, and the chin down ; the legs are flexed at the knees and hips, and the thighs are adducted and rotated inwards, so that when he walks the knees knock together; the arms are flexed at the elbow and slightly abducted from the side, the hands are flexed on the wrists and hang down over the upper portion of the thighs. The fingers are flexed at the metacarpo-phalan- geal joints, and the phalanges are extended, the thumb being opposed to the first or second finger. The impression which is produced by the attitude is that of a person who is about to start forward and yet uncertain when to start. The muscles of the face are rigid and have been described as giving the appearance of quiet majesty and dignity, but the fixed expression gives as a rule rather an appearance of stupidity. The patient is sheltered from all emotions, his smile is hardly visible, and owing to the lower portion of the face being as a rule more fixed than the upper, the forehead and eyes alone play any part in the expression of emotion. Although the attitude above described is that which is most common, yet there are cases in which the limbs are held in extension, and the head is retracted instead of being bent forward. Whatever attitude is assumed, it would seem to be due to a special state of rigidity of the muscles; this at first appears as cramp, followed by stiffness, which is transitory, later the condition becomes more constant and exaggerated at times into true paroxysms, and, finally, the stiffness becomes more and more permanent, and the position of the patient resulting therefrom is that above described. The most frequent position of the hand is that which has been already described, and has been compared to that assumed by a patient about to write, the fingers being extended and the thumb approximated to the first finger. The fingers are as a whole, however, flexed towards the palm of the hand and deflected toPARALYSIS 319 the ulnar side, a position very similar to that seen in chronic rheumatism, except that there is neither swelling nor lipping of the bones, nor is there any grating on movement. In the lower limbs the thighs are adducted and flexed at the hip, the knees are flexed, the feet extended and in a position of equino-varus. In late cases the rigidity may be so marked as to resemble a case of paralysis with con- tracture ; there is, however, no true contraction, but a kind of fixation of the joints produced by the long-continued rigidity of the muscles. Rigidity is, as a rule, only pronounced in the advanced stages of the disease; occasionally, however, it precedes the tremor. The limitation and slowness of movement is in part due to this rigidity. But there are two other factors that contribute to this condition : the first of these is the slowness of the cerebral processes, a prolonged interval elapsing between the thought and the act, and between the wish and the realisation—the act is accomplished, but only slowly and with fatigue; the second factor is the muscular weakness. Gait. — Patients commonly present a very characteristic alteration in their gait: there is a tendency either to run forward (propulsion) or to run backwards (retropulsion), or both may be present in the same patient; the former may be brought out by standing the patient up and gently pressing on the back, the latter by lightly pulling on the garment of a patient from behind. The patients rise slowly and with difficulty from their seat; they hesitate before beginning to walk, but when once started on their for- ward course they run rapidly forward with short, shuffling steps, and are often completely unable to stop themselves, so that unless they come against a wall or some object of support they fall down. They frequently have con- siderable difficulty in turning round, and in order to avoid this they adopt various man- oeuvres ; one of these patients, in order to get out of the out-patient room, makes a circle round the room and a rapid exit through the door which is held open for him. In a patient in whom retropulsion is present the same short, shuffling steps are made in a backward instead of a forward direction, and in many cases the patient is unable to stop him- self, and unless supported would fall. Some- times the phenomenon occurs spontaneously. Although retropulsion is most commonly seen in paralysis agitans, it is not pathognomonic of the disease, for it has also been described in progressive muscular atrophy. Tremor.—Tremor is usually the first mani- festation of the disease ; it begins commonly in the fingers and hands, and is at first slight, and occurs only at intervals, gradually increasing both in extent and frequency till it becomes almost constant. Commencing in the hand, it may for a long time remain limited to the one limb; gradually, however, it spreads, involving first the forearm, then the upper arm, then the leg on the same side, then the opposite arm, and finally the opposite leg. As has already been said, the tremor does not commonly affect the head, but that it does so in some cases, and that even the masseters, tongue, and face may be involved. Aff'ection of the eyelids has been noted, but the ocular muscles always escape. Tremor of the palate, epiglottis, and vocal cords has been described, but it is very rare for these parts to be affected. The tremor of the fingers is a rhythmical movement, having an almost constant amplitude, and is due to the alternat- ing contraction of the opposing muscles ; this movement has been compared to that performed in rolling a cigarette or pencil between the fingers. The movements of the elbow have a lesser amplitude than those of the hand, and those of the shoulder are less than those at the elbow. The handwriting is altered by the tremor, but at first the defects are scarcely noticeable by the unaided eye, though the irregularities can be easily seen by the aid of a magnifying lens. As the disease becomes more pronounced the letters become more ir- regular, the lines zigzaggy, and the writing small and cramped. The tremor of the legs is far less obvious than that of the arms, but occasionally it is so marked that while sitting the foot shakes against the floor. The rate of the tremor is comparatively slow, being between four and five oscillations per second, and as it increases in range so it lessens in frequency. It is present during rest, and tends to cease during the execution of voluntary movement for a few seconds; but this can only be said to be true of the less advanced cases, for when of long standing the tremor persists even on voluntary movement. Gerhardt asserts that the tremor is increased in one-half the cases by attempted movement, and may occa- sionally be brought out by voluntary movement. During sleep the tremor usually ceases. The voice has a peculiar monotonous intona- tion, and there is often a delay in starting, but when once started the utterance is rapid ; just as there is hesitation before beginning to walk, so there is hesitation before beginning to speak. There is difiiculty in modulating the voice, which may even become whining in character. Deglutition always remains good, but the saliva often dribbles out of the mouth owing to the rigidity of the muscles of the lower portion of the face. Alteration in the Skin. — Changes in the skin are almost constant in advanced cases of the disease, and consist in thickening and loss of elasticity. The thickening may be so marked that it is almost impossible to raise a fold, and even when a fold is formed it is very slow in320 PARALYSIS returning to its former position again. This change in the skin is attributed to tiiickening of the subcutaneous tissue. Subjective Sensations.—Patients complain of various subjective sensations, the most frequent being the sensation of heat, so that many of them cannot even bear the weight of the bed- clothes. Exacerbations of these sensations of heat frequently occur. They also complain of rheumatic and neuralgic pains in various parts of the body, and often desire to have changed or to change their position in bed. If the temperature is examined during one of these heat attacks, no elevation of the central temperature is found, but the peripheral tem- perature may be raised 1 to 2 degrees. It has been suggested that the constant muscular con- tractions give rise to this increase of peripheral temperature. There is no impairment of any foi'm of sensation. The organs of sense are nearly always intact, though some alteration in vision has been de- scribed, such as transient amblyopia and con- traction of the fields of vision. The movements of the eye remain unaffected, and are moved quickly, but the head is moved slowly, so that if a patient is asked to look in a certain direc- tion he turns the eyes, but not the head. The sphincters are unaffected, and there are no trophic disturbances of the skin. The muscles do not atrophy, nor do they show any electrical change. The skin reflexes are normal, the knee- jerks are not exaggerated in spite of the rigidity of the limbs, there is no ankle clonus, and the plantar reflex gixes a flexor response. The urine is normal, although it is stated that there is an excess of phosphates passed. The mental faculties of the patients remain good, although they are liable to attacks of depression, and may become suicidal, and to- wards the end of the disease they may suffer from delusions and delirium. During the latter stages of the disease the patients waste and become extremely thin, they lie absolutely help- less in bed, and bedsores may form over the sacrum. They succumb either to general asthenia or to some intercurrent disease such as pneumonia. Pathological Anatomy.—Many of the patho- logical conditions described by older writers cannot be regarded as of value, since they did not distinguish between such diseases as dis- seminated sclerosis and paralysis agitans, and the changes described were of such a gross nature that had they been commonly present they would have been verified by more recent observations. The results of examinations by modern methods have either been negative or but slight changes have been discovered. Among the changes that have been described are hyper- plasia of the connective tissue, with thickening of the walls of the finer vessels, increase of nuclei. and small islets of connective tissue which spread inwards from the surface of the cord, sclerosis of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord, pigmentation or atrophy of the anterior horn cells, and varicosity of the axis cylinders. The central canal of the spinal cord has been obliter- ated in some cases, and in others dilatation of the capillaries and small extravasations of blood have been found. Changes in the peripheral nerves have also been described. In some cases no changes have been found in the central or peripheral parts of the nervous system, but the muscles have shown both hyper- trophy and atrophy of fibres, with proliferation of the connective tissue. The following are the changes that the most recent histological methods have revealed :—The cells of the anterior horns markedly pigmented, rounded, and granular; the nerve fibres in the posterior columns and peripheral nerves de- genei'ated to some extent; the muscle fibres in part atrophied, and in part fatty or hyaline ; the interstitial tissue in the cord, peripheral nerves, and muscles increased ; the vessel walls thickened and the glial tissue increased. In two cases we have had the opportunity of examining the changes that were found were marked pig- mentation of the cells of the brain and spinal cord, and in one of them fatty degeneration of certain muscle fibres. The most constant changes may be said to be increase of the connective tissue of the cord, thickening of the vessel walls, and pigmentation of the cells. Too much importance must not, however, be attached to these changes: firstly, because many cases have been examined with an absolutely negative result; and, secondly, because all the changes described have been found in the cords of old people who have not manifested any sign of paralysis agitans during life. Pigmentation of the cells is the most common change in old people, and the older the patient the more marked the pigment. Obliteration of the central canal of the spinal cord is a common feature in the cords of adults, and it is almost unnecessary to say that the same is true with regard to the thickening of the vessels. It must be admitted that so far as the morbid anatomy is concerned there is little to be said against the view held by some that paralysis agitans is merely premature senility of the nervous system. Pathology. — Certain clinical facts seem to point strongly to the cerebral origin of the disease. The hemiplegic character during the earlier stages is not infrequently a marked feature, and the disease may for a considerable period remain limited to one side ; and further, the progress of the disease tends to follow a course very suggestive of a cerebral origin. The character of the tremor is that associated with cerebral rather than with spinal disease, and the similarity of the tremor to that pro-PARALYSIS 321 duced by fright has been called attention to by more than one author. The view taken by Dr. Hughlings Jackson that the morbid condition lies in the cerebellum, is one of great interest. He suggests that there is a loss of the normal balance between the antagonising influences of the cerebrum and cerebellum. Diagnosis.—In a typical case the bent position of the body, the fixed expression of the face, the muscular rigidity, and the tremor make the diagnosis a matter of great simplicity. Even in cases where the tremor is absent the position of the patient and the rigidity of the muscles were so characteristic that a mistake can hardly occur. The tremor of senility resembles that of paralysis agitans very closely, but the char- acteristic position of the limbs and trunk are wanting, the head is chiefly affected, and the tremor is only brought out or is increased on voluntary movement. From disseminated sclerosis paralysis agitans is distinguished by the later age of incidence, the attitude, the character of the tremor, which is not increased on volitional movement, and by the absence of nystagmus, diplopia, optic atrophy, and aff'ection of the sphincters. The tremors due to alcohol, mercury, brass, and other toxic agents are distinguished by the absence of the characteristic attitude, propulsion, and subjective sensory sensations, while there is direct evidence that one or other of these toxic agents has been in operation. From hysterical tremor it is only during the early period of the disease that any difliculty can really arise when the tremor is limited to one arm or hand, and the characteristic attitude has not developed. The tremor is more in- fluenced by psychical phenomena, the oscilla- tions are greater, and other signs of hysteria can be detected. In Huntingdon's chorea the amplitude of the movement is greater and more irregular; the muscles of the face share in the movement. The characteristic attitude is wanting, and the hereditary and family history and the signs of mental impairment are sufficient to make the diagnosis clear. In the tremor of hemiplegic origin the uni- lateral character, the greater rigidity, the in- creased reflexes on the affected side, and the history of sudden onset, would probably be sufficient to allow of a correct diagnosis. From chronic chorea and post-hemiplegic chorea there should be no difficulty in distinguishing the movements. Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavourable ; improvement and cure can only take place most rarely. The disease itself rarely causes death, but some intercurrent affection, most commonly of the respiratory system, is usually responsible for the fatal issue. Treatment.—In general, rest both bodily and mental is of the first importance. In an early VOL. VII stage this may be attempted by rest in bed, but the patient often becomes so restless under this treatment that it should not be persisted in unless marked improvement has taken place. Patients often feel better while they are taking some exercise. Passive movements may be tried with some benefit. Warm baths for a prolonged period have been used with good results, and the same may be said of applications of the constant current. All manner of drugs have been tried with most varying results. The following are those most in use: belladonna, ergot, arsenic, can- nabis indica, eserine, silver nitrate, strychnine, iodide of potassium, opium, hyoscine, biborate of soda, bromide salts, sulphate of duboisin, tincture of veratrum viride, and tincture of gelsemium. Sodium salicylate may be useful in those cases in which there is much joint pain. Of historical interest are the shaking sofa and the vibratory jacket, which were invented in response to the observation that patients were better after a railway journey and after being shaken up in a bus; they have not, however, been shown to be attended with any beneficial results. Patients frequently adopt various methods and attitudes in order to prevent the tremor, one of the most common being to fix the hands by placing them on the knees. In late cases special precautions have to be taken against the formation of bedsores, and the position of the patient must be frequently changed. Hereditary Ataxy (Friedreich's Disease).— Definition.—An hereditary and family form of disease occurring in the first and second decades of life, the leading features of which are ataxia, nystagmus, deformities of the spine and feet, and absent knee-jerks. Etiology.—The most important factor in the etiology of this disease is its tendency to affect several members of a family; not only does the malady affect brothers and sisters, but it also passes from parent to child for, it may be, three to four generations ; certain members of a family may escape, but the disease may reappear in their children. Other members of the same family not in- frequently suff'er from some nervous affection, such as insanity, epilepsy, or chorea. There is no evidence to show that syphilis or alcohol in the parents bears any causal relation to the disease. The occurrence of the acute specific fevers has, we believe, more influence on the onset of the disease than is generally supposed, and this factor is usually more marked in isolated cases that when many members of a family are affected. Both sexes are about equally liable to be attacked. The age at which the onset of the disease is 21PARALYSIS 322 most common is stated by Gowers to be between the seventh and eighth year; many cases manifest their tirst symptoms between twelve and sixteen, and a few between the latter age and twenty-five. Some cases have shown symp- toms as early as two years of age. Onset.—The onset of the disease is most gradual, the first symptom to appear being usually ataxia, then the speech becomes affected, while later the inco-ordination of the arms develops. The curvature of the spine and de- formity of the feet are generally later develop- ments, although in some cases they have been the first symptoms noticed. The course of the disease is most uncertain; at times it seems to advance rapidly, while at others it becomes stationary, and may remain so for years; and that some remission of symp- toms occurs is certain from the way in which anaesthesia will often pass off, but such remis- sions are never so marked as those which are often seen in disseminated sclerosis. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptom in the disease is the inco-ordination that the patient exhibits when attempting to walk. In slight cases he stands with the legs wide apart, reels slightly, raising the foot rather higher than necessary, and bringing it down with a slap on the floor, while in extreme cases it may be so marked that he crosses the legs from side to side in order to save himself from falling. Even with patients who are no longer able to walk the ataxia is well shown by making them attempt to place the heel of one foot on the knee of the opposite leg. A patient, who is ataxic in his gait, will often stand steadilj' with the eyes shut, but in other cases the unsteadiness is markedly increased when the eyes are closed. The ataxia of the arms is usually less marked than that in the legs, and it is often only obvious when the patients attempt to feed themselves. In children the frequent stumbling in walking and clumsy manner in which they grasp an object, and in which they feed themselves, is often attributed to carelessness or confused with chorea. Apart from the inco-ordination exhibited on the performance of voluntary acts, there are almost constant "choreiform" movements or static ataxia, as designated by Friedreich, while the patient is sitting or standing. If such a patient be observed while standing, various groups of muscles in the thighs and legs are seen to be in constant movement in order to maintain the equilibrium. In the sitting pos- ture the muscles of the trunk and shoulders are in similar action, and the head, which is often held forward, has an almost constant nodding movement, while the arms are similarly affected. So marked a featui'e is this movement in some cases that the affection is mistaken for chorea of a chronic type. It is worthy of note that the ataxia is frequently worse after rest and better after a certain amount of exercise. Ocular Symptoms.—Nystagmus is almost a constant symptom—it may be present while the eyes are at rest, but is accentuated when they are turned to the right or left; paralysis of the ocular muscles is rare, but does occur. The pupils are generally equal, and react well to light and on accommodation ; occasionally, how- ever, they fail to respond to light, and, as Sir William Gowers points out, when this sign is present juvenile tabes should be suspected, especially if the pupil defect is associated with optic atrophy, for optic atrophy is said not to occur in Friedreich's disease. Vision is said to be occasionally defective. Deformities of the spine and extremities are always most characteristic. The most common position assumed by the foot is that of pes cavus: the dorsum of the foot is arched, and the plantar surface is often so contracted as to form a fold across the sole of the foot; the big toe is drawn back, being flexed at the junction of the phal- anges and extended at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Although this is the common position, talipes equinus and equino-varus also occur in about one-fifth of the cases, according to Griffiths. The prominence of the extensor proprius hallucis is often an early and marked sign, and later the tibialis posticus and the peroneus longus tendons stand out behind the internal and external malleoli respectively. The smaller toes also are in a position of extension. The foot as a whole is dropped. The deformity of the foot is explained by Duchenne as due to the weakness or paralysis of the interossei combined with weakness of the dorsi-flexors of the ankle; another explanation, however, is that it is due to an increased muscular tone in the peronei, tibialis posticus, and extensor muscles of the toes secondary to the involvement of the pyra- midal system, and this is probably correct, for it has been shown by Collier that after affection of the pyramid in cases of hemiplegia or para- plegia the foot tends to assume a position of pes cavus. Deformities of the hands have also been de- scribed, but are comparatively rare ; that which is most frequently seen is the 7nain en griffe, and when this occurs it is probably due to the weakness of the interossei and contraction of the unopposed extensors. Curvature of the spine is very commonly present and may be extremely marked. It is usually situated in the dorsal region, with the concavity to the left, the centi-al point of the curve being situated between the sixth and ninth dorsal spines; there is also not infre- quently some kyphosis at the level of the upper dorsal vertebrae. In most cases no alteration in sensation can be detected either to touch, pain, heat, or cold, and the sense of position is normal, and this323 PARALYSIS may even be so when Romberg's symptom is well marked. In exceptional cases there may be anesthesia of one or both extremities, which does not always persist; in other cases there has been loss of sensibility to heat and cold; while in others, again, there has been delayed sensation and diminution of the acuteness of sensation. Subjective sensations are occasionally com- plained of, numbness of the hands and of the soles of the feet, and these are often associated with coldness and blueness of the extremities. Lightning pains have been noted in rare in- stances, but visceral crises do not occur. The muscles react to faradism, although they not infrequently require a stronger current than normal, and it has also been noted that the patient will bear without any discomfort a far more powerful cuiTent than can be borne by a healthy individual. No polar change is de- monstrable with the galvanic current, although there may be some diminution in the response. Myotatic irritability of the muscles is lost. Some defect of articulation is nearly always present: the words are jerked out and interrupted by sudden and irregular pauses, and they are slurred over so that the ends of the longer words become clipped, and the first letter often elided, the general effect being that the speech is slow and drawling. The movements of the palate and larynx are normal, although abductor palsy of the cords has been noted. Mastication and deghitition are normal; there is at times some difficulty in retaining the saliva. It is genei-ally stated that in the majority of cases there is no mental defect, and this is no doubt true ; on the other hand, it is not un- common to meet with marked mental defect. The expression of the patient, together with the slow utterance, often suggests some mental im- pairment which is not borne out on examination ; but, quite apart from any such error, not a few cases exhibit marked mental defect. It is difficult to estimate the exact proportion of cases in which such defect occurs, but Griffiths gives the number as 21 out of 143 cases; he, however, qualifies the statement by saying that in most of these the affection was more than questionable. The superficial reflexes are usually present and brisk; the knee-jerks are absent, although in exceptional cases they may be present, and even exaggerated; and in these latter cases ankle clonus may also be obtained, as in a case reported by Gladstone in Brain (1899). The plantar reflexes, when they can be obtained, give a definite extensor response. The arm-jerks cannot, as a rule, be obtained. There is no incontinence of urine or fiBces ; the act of micturition, however, may be some- what delayed. Sexual power may be lost, but as the disease frequently commences before puberty, it is difficult to state how often this occurs. Menstruation is also often delayed. Pathological Anatomy.—The brain and cere- bellum usually appear normal to the naked eye ; the spinal cord is smaller and shrunken, and lies in a loose dural sac which contains an excess of cerebro-spinal fluid. The pia-arachnoid over the posterior columns is thickened and adherent to the posterior column of the cord. On section of the cord the grey and translucent appearance of the sclerosed posterior columns is obvious to the naked eye, and the posterior roots appear very small; the anterior roots are normal. Examined microscopically, there is degenera- tion both of the lateral and posterior columns, that in the posterior columns extending from the sacral region to the posterior column nuclei in the medulla, the column of GoU being more affected than that of Burdach. In the lumbo- sacral region of the cord the endogenous fibres in the posterior columns, that is to say, the septo-marginal tract and the cornu-commisural zone, are left unaff'ected. Lissauer's tract is commonly affected, and Clarke's column is also involved. In so far, then, as the posterior columns are concerned, the lesion corresponds very closely to that found in tabes. Besides the affection of the posterior columns there is degeneration in the direct cerebellar tract, and also in the ascending antero-lateral tract of Gowers. The crossed pyramidal tracts show marked degeneration in most cases, but the degeneration in others is slight, and has been regarded not as that of the efferent fibres, but as that of afferent fibres. In advanced cases, however, the pyramidal tracts are very markedly aff'ected, and in rare cases the direct pyramidal tract may also be involved. Although the degeneration is most marked in the tracts above named, yet it is not limited to them, but tends to involve a good deal of the periphery of the cord. There is always a considerable amount of connective tissue replacing the fibres that have undergone degeneration. There is frequently extensive degeneration of the fibres entering the posterior horn. In a few cases changes have been found in the cells of the anterior horns. The posterior roots between the ganglion and the cord show extensive degeneration. In these roots some very fine nerve fibres are often present, but by far the greater part of the root is composed of empty sheaths and connective tissue; these fine fibres have been considered to be embryo- logical in type. The roots in the lumbar region generally show more change than those either in the dorsal or cervical region. The posterior root ganglia appear smaller than normal, the cells are small and pigmented, and the finer granules of the cells stain badly. There is marked degeneration of the fibresPAKALYSIS 324 that enter the ganglion from the posterior root, while those of the anterior root in close proximity to the ganglion are normal, with the exception possibl}^ of a few degenerate fibres. In the mixed nerves the motor fibres are normal, while those coming from the posterior root ganglia are atrophied. The peripheral nerves show considerable degeneration, and it would seem that the portions more peripherally situated suffer more than those nearer the cord. In the medulla the degeneration can be traced up to the funiculus gracilis and cuneatus ; the direct cerebellar tract is markedly affected, and the ventral cerebellar tract to a lesser degree. Some degeneration may be seen in the pyramids as high as the medulla. The nucleus gracilis is practically absent, and the nucleus cuneatus very poorly developed. The cerebrum and cerebellum usually appear normal on microscopic examination. It is not uncommon to find some developmental abnor- mality in the cord. Pathology. — That the affection of the posterior columns closely resembles that found in tabes there can be little doubt, but various views have been held as to whether the condition is due to arrest of development or to an early degeneration. All the evidence from the clinical side of the question, however, points to the latter view as that which is most probably correct. It is difficult to believe that an undeveloped cord could perform its functions for many years before showing signs of failure. The cui-ious manner in which several members of a family are affected, however, points to some inherent tendency to failure as soon as any extra strain is thrown upon the nervous system. Although many of the symptoms are ac- counted for by the pathological condition found, yet there are others which cannot be so ex- plained, such as the nystagmus, the defective articulation, and the choreiform movements. Some authors have looked upon the disease as essentially cerebellar, but the pathological evidence is almost entirely against such a view, in that the cerebellum in almost all undoubted cases of the disease has been found to be normal. There seems to be no doubt that the affection frequently follows some acute disease, and this is possibly more often the case in the isolated cases than in those which occur in families ; the acute disease can, however, only be regarded as an exciting cause acting on a nervous system which for some reason is congenitally weak. Diaynoais.—In a marked case in which there is ataxia, nystagmus spinal curvature, and de- formity of the foot, and in which the knee-jerks are absent, there should be no difficulty in diagnosing the disease. In other cases the affection may be confused with disseminated sclerosis, in which disease, however, the inten- tion tremor is much coarser and more jerky, the nystagmus is more marked, the knee-jerks are exaggerated, ankle clonus is present, and ocular palsies, diplopia, and optic atrophy are not uncommon. The age of the patients is different, for disseminated sclerosis commonly begins during the third decade of life. In certain cases in which anomalous symptoms are present the diagnosis is by no means so easy, for it has already been pointed out that exaggerated knee-jerks and ankle clonus may occasionally be present in Friedreich's disease. The diagnosis from a typical case of tabes presents no difficulty, but from the juvenile form of tabes and from the associated disease of tabes and genei-al paralysis occurring in the subjects of congenital syphilis, considerable difficulty is likely to arise. The presence of optic atrophy, irregular-sized pupils, the Argyll- Robertson phenomenon, and bladder trouble, together with the absence of spinal curvature and foot deformity, and nystagmus, would all be in favour of the diagnosis of juvenile tabes. From a cerebellar tumour the slow and gradual onset, the absence of headache, vomiting, and optic neuritis, together with the curious vari- ability in the knee-jerks commonly seen in cases of cerebellar tumour, should render the differ- ential diagnosis simple. Hereditary cerebellar ataxia (Marie's disease) is later in its onset (after the age of twenty), the mental affection is more marked, there is optic atrophy, the knee-jerks are active, and the ataxia is greater. To chorea of a chronic type the disease only bears a superficial resemblance, and, apart from the character of the movements and the ataxia, the curvatui-e of the spine, the deformity of the foot, and the presence of nystagmus are usually sufficient to form a diagnosis. Progiiosis. — The prognosis is unfavourable, although the disease does not necessarily ad- vance, yet it leaves the patient in an enfeebled condition, so that he readily falls a victim to some intercurrent affection. Treatment. — Drugs have no effect either to arrest or to cure the disease. Massage and electricity may be of some service. The patient should be encouraged to take moderate exercise, and should perform various co-ordinate move- ments both with the arms and legs. Functional Pakalysis Inasmuch as our knowledge of the intimate nature of functional disease is incomplete, the definition of functional "paralysis" is difiicult and unsatisfactory, and the conditions which are to be included under this term are separated from conditions not so included by a somewhat arbitrary line. " Functional paralysis " is a term applied to a natural group of cases char-325 PARALYSIS acterised by the rapid onset of paralysis, often from trifling causes. The paralysis after a longer or shorter time often disappears rapidly, sometimes instantaneously. The nature of the paralysis is frequently such as to render its explanation by any conceivable organic lesion difficult or impossible. While the signs and symptoms commonly met with in organic disease are absent, certain peculiar symptoms, char- acteristic of hysteria, are often present. No organic disease which could account for such symptoms has been found. There is no single symptom or physical sign the presence of which proves the nature of any given case of paralysis to be functional. On the other hand, there are many physical signs and symptoms the presence of which absolutely excludes from the category of functional para- lysis. The failure of pathological investigation to reveal any morbid changes in the organs does not justify the inclusion of a disease into this group, for the term is here used arbitrarily for a clinical group, and not in its true etymo- logical sense. As examples, epilepsy, chorea, and paralysis agitans, which are distinct from the class of diseases here described, are without discovered morbid lesions, and the first two are eminently " functional" diseases in the etymo- logical sense of the word. There are, further, two important considera- tions in the recognition of functional paralysis. First, that long-standing functional paralysis sometimes leads to degenerative changes in the elements of the nervous system supplying the affected region, and such degenerative changes may be progressive. When these take place the clinical picture may acquire an organic aspect, and the autopsy reveal gross tissue changes. Secondly, functional paralysis may be not infrequently an early symptom of organic disease, especially of the disease disseminated sclerosis ; it is then, as a rule, accompanied by some distinctive organic sign. Etiology.—The disease is much more common in females than in males, and most frequently occurs in young adult life, from the time of puberty to the age of thirty-five years. It has occurred as early as the fifth year, and in females is sometimes first manifested as late as the time of the menopause. Neuropathic her- edity is frequent. Among parents and relations of the patient are often found hysteria, epilepsy, insanity, chorea, and " nervousness." The dis- ease is more common in Latin than in Saxon races, and a fair proportion of cases occur amongst the Jews. The patients themselves frequently present signs of a neuropathic tendency. In children, precocity and mental instability or impairment are often present. In adults, often the symptoms of hysteria are present, and there is always some mental in- stability. Some of the cases, after years, become mentally deranged, and occasionally organic nervous disease in some form ap- pears, presumably from the same neuropathic tendency to which the functional symptoms are attributable. Predisposing causes are often absent, but in some patients a cause for general deterioration of health is evident, and this may be any acute disease, especially influenza, anaemia, dyspepsia, privation, long hours, and overwork. By far the most important exciting causes are me'ntal emotion, shocks, and physical injuries, the latter being often slight. Long-continued anxiety, disappointments, money losses, bereavements, sudden frights, railway and carriage accidents are frequently the immediate precursors of the paralysis. It the recent South African war several cases arose from slight bullet wounds. The disease is sometimes attributable to pelvic trouble, especially where this has required much local treatment. In cases where symptoms first arrive in middle life, alcoholism, and in women the menopause, are probable important factors. Clinical Aspect.—Functional paralysis may afi'ect almost any part of the voluntary muscles of the body. The result may be slight or severe paralysis, but rarely complete paralysis as regards a whole limb. In slight forms there may be weakness with ataxy or with tremor. In the more severe forms the paralysis may be flaccid or spastic, and in the latter case there are usually contractures. It is impossible to describe functional spasm separately from func- tional paralysis, as where spasm exists there is paralysis in effect. The distribution of functional paralysis is either hemiplegic, paraplegic, or monoplegic. In this country functional paraplegia is the more common. Functional Hemiplegia. — The paralysis affects one side of the body, more frequently the left, and may be flaccid or spastic. The arm and leg may be uniformly affected, or the affection of the leg may preponderate, but the face is never affected in flaccid palsy and seldom in spastic palsy. In the latter case there may be contracture of the face and con- tracture of the tongue on protrusion, so that that organ is held with its non-affected side transversely between the lips. The neck and trunk muscles are rarely affected. In the slight flaccid cases there may be simply general weakness with capacity to perform each move- ment ; in the more severe cases there may be inability to raise the limb off the bed. The paralysis may be complete but for the move- ment of one muscle, and the movement of that muscle may be normal. For instance, a woman with complete flaccid paralysis of the left leg, without wasting, and with a normal knee-jerk and electric excitability, was always able to extend the great toe. She could perform this act with great rapidity. Such an act was326 PARALYSIS incompatible with any organic lesion causing otherwise complete hemiplegia, and the patient after many months recovered suddenly. The importance of such contradictory symptoms in functional paralysis is great, as they occur frequently. In the spastic cases there may be contracture of the face, tongue, and muscles of mastication on the affected side. Sometimes there is a degree of torticollis. The spasm is usually equally resistive to passive movement in all positions of the limb—there is no " clasp- knife " phenomenon, and the fingers when aflfected do not relax on passive flexion of the wrist as in organic hemiplegia. Passive move- ment is, as a rule, much objected to by the patient. The spasm when severe and without intermission is termed contracture, and when this occurs the limbs assume characteristic positions. In the upper limb the arm is adducted, the elbow flexed, and the fingers either flexed at all joints or extended at the inter-phalangeal joints and strongly adducted (interosseal position). The lower extremity is always extended at the hip and knee, often adducted and rotated in at the hip ; the foot is dropped and inverted. Contracture of any degree of severity does not relax during sleep, and only relaxes in the late stages of surgical anaesthesia. A peculiar characteristic of both types is that when an attempt is made to voluntarily or passively move a joint in a particular direction, the antagonistic muscles at once contract. Where voluntary movement is possible it is generally tremulous, and this is especially evident when power is returning and spasm lessening. The tremor may be the most con- spicuous symptom of the hemiplegia. Where the patient is able to stand, the gait is character- istic, the paralysed leg being dragged helplessly behind the other, the dorsal surface of the toes resting upon the ground. Where there is some degree of power in the lower extremities, the gait is as if the patient voluntarily exaggerated all the difficulties, and the most grotesque movements result, which have no place in the duration, and then it is only slight. The electrical excitability of the muscles is un- altered. Slight vaso-motor disturbance may be present in the regions where contracture is present, and is probably due to pressure upon the veins by the spastic muscles. Slight trophic changes in the periphery of the limbs are met with, and rest adhesions may form in the joints. The deep reflexes are exaggerated ; more upon the affected side, where foot clonus may be present. The plantar reflex is often absent on one or both sides; where present, it is always of the flexor type. The abdominal reflex is often exaggerated upon the paralysed side. The other signs of functional disease, often present in fimctional hemiplegia, are hemianses- thesia to all forms of sensibility, and especially to pain, involving the body and frequently the mucous membranes up to the middle line. The muscular sense is sometimes retained. Uni- lateral loss of smell, diminution of hearing, and crossed amblyopia and hysterical convulsions are often present {vide Hysteria). \ The three following physical signs are of i great value in diagnosis:—(1) The plantar reflex, which is always flexor when present in functional disease, is almost always extensor in organic disease, where the pyramidal tracts are involved. (2) On pressing the chin downwards against a firm resistance the head deviates to the soimd side in organic hemiplegia; it does not deviate in functional hemiplegia. (3) The patient is placed supine upon the bed and the legs uncovered. She is then directed to sit up suddenly. When this act is performed by a normal person, both thighs and knees are flexed slightly; during the act in organic hemiplegia, where any rigidity is present, the paralysed thigh moves up much more than the sound. In functional hemiplegia, where rigidity is present, the aff"ected limb does not move at all or only slightly. (Babinski's sign.) It is here convenient to place in the form of a table the chief features serving to distinguish functional hemiplegia from organic hemiplegia. Vision . . . . . Hemi-analgesia .... Face Paralysis . . . . . Gait Contracture of knee and foot True foot clonus.... Abdominal reflex Plantar reflex .... Inclination of head to sound side on depressing chin Babinski's hip phenomenon where rigidity is present Functional. Crossed amblyopia Frequently complete Never paralysed Rarely complete The foot is dragged behind Knee extended. Foot, equino- varus Seldom present Often exaggerated Absent or flexor Absent Absent Organic. Hemianopia Never complete Often paralysed Often complete Leg moved forward in a half circle Knee, often flexed. Foot, pes cavus Generally present Diminished or absent Extensor Often present Present clinical picture of organic hemiplegia. There j Functional Parapi-egfa.—The onset of the is no muscular wasting except in cases of long paralysis is almost invariabl}^ sudden, and oftenPARALYSIS 327 follows some fright or emotion. The loss of power is usually moderate in degree at first, and gradually increases, and may assume any degree from slight ataxy of movement to complete paralysis. The power which remains is put into action irregularly. There is often resistance to passive movement. If an attempt be made to execute a given movement, op- ponents of the acting muscles may be felt to contract, and any resulting movement is accompanied by tremor. Often the nature and distribution of the paralysis are peculiar; individual movements and muscles may be exempt in cases where the paralysis is otherwise complete. A patient who, while in bed, may perform all movements against moderate re- sistance may be entirely unable to make even an attempt to stand or walk; in other cases standing may be possible, but on the attempt to walk the knees immediately give way and the patient falls to the ground. This is the condition to which the term astasia abasia has been applied {vide infra). It is not peculiar to functional disease, but may exist in any case where there is loss of power or of the muscular sense in the quadriceps extensor femoris, peri- pheral neuritis, tabes dorsalis, spastic para- plegia, disseminate sclerosis, etc. It is explained by the fact, that with the knee extended very little muscular eftbrt is required to keep the knee rigid for the support of the body weight, but directly the knee is bent the whole weight of the body is thrown upon the quadriceps. Further, where paralysis approaches complete- ness in the waking state, a patient may, if carefully watched, be seen to move the affected limbs freely when in the lighter stages of sleep, and the same result is often seen in the early stages of surgical anaesthesia. Such contradictory phenomena occur in great variety in functional paralysis, and though highly characteristic of the disease, are not absolutely pathognomonic, as they also occur, though rarely, in organic paralysis. When walking is possible the gait is often characteristic, and has been termed by Hugh- lings Jackson the "constructed" gait, for every difficulty is exaggerated, and all kinds of peculiar movements of trunk and limbs added, while the patient often evinces much emotional disturbance during the attempt to walk. Sometimes a patient who walks in this manner when unsupported may walk quite naturally if she is allowed to hold a single finger of the observer, this slight support giving her con- fidence. It has been stated that such patients never fall, when walking, in such a way as to hurt themselves, but collapse gently on to the ground, and this fact has been used as a test to distinguish functional paraplegia. It is, how- ever, not invariably true, and as a test it has been fraught with severe injuries and dangerous consequences. The paraplegia is sometimes quite flaccid, generally slightly spastic, not often severely spastic, and the occurrence of contractures is much less common than in functional hemi- plegia. When contractures occur they resemble those described in functional hemiplegia. There is never flexor contracture at hip and knee such as commonly occurs in organic spastic para- plegia ; and pes cavus, so characteristic of the latter condition, never occurs. Spontaneous clonus (epileptoid spasm) never occurs. In most cases the paralysis is confined to the lower extremities, and these may be unequally affected. Rarely all four extremities are affected. The trunk is sometimes affected, but never segment- ally ; there is then inability to rise from the supine position. There is no muscular wasting, and the electric excitability is vinaltered. The tendon reflexes are increased, and there may be foot clonus. Sometimes this latter is indis- tinguishable from the foot clonus of organic disease, but more frequently it is commenced by a voluntary movement of plantar extension at the ankle, and does not occur if the foot be fully dorsiflexed (such a clonus may be produced at will by most healthy people in certain posi- tions of the leg and foot; for instance, sitting forward with the feet on tiptoe). The plantar reflexes are often absent, whether antesthesia be present or not. When obtained they are always of the flexor type. Sometimes a move- ment of the tensor vaginse femoris alone occurs on stimulating the sole of the foot. Incontinence of the sphincters never occurs. There may be slight difficulty in starting the act of micturition, an exaggeration of a con- dition not uncommon in healthy persons. Since incontinence of sphincters is one of the most important symptoms in distinguishing functional from organic disease, patients must be very accurately and directly questioned, more espe- cially as in women slight difficulties are often concealed. As examples of the care necessary to avoid erroneous diagnosis, the following in- stances may be cited :—A patient with a well- marked functional paraplegia complained of inability to hold her water. She was admitted into hospital and was found to be suffering with thrombosed htemorrhoids, the treatment of which cured the incontinence. Another patient, in whom precipitancy of micturition had led to the diagnosis of organic disease, had suffei'ed with sphincter trouble ever since infancy, and the paraplegia had occurred from shock six weeks before examination. In a third case severe cystitis and consequent incontinence had been set up from the repeated use of an unclean catheter by the patient herself, the catheter having been originally ordered for hysterical retention. It is the rule for anesthesia to be present in some form in the paralysed region. Sensibility to pain is as a rule most impaired, and that to328 PARALYSIS touch least, but the antesthesia may be complete to all forms. The muscular sense is sometimes absent, sometimes preserved. The antesthesia is distributed, as a rule, in " stocking or glove fashion"; frequently it is limited above by Poupart's ligaments and the iliac crests, and the perineum is almost always exempt, even when the antesthesia extends on to the trunk. Hemi- anaesthesia may be present in addition to par- ansesthesia. Slight trophic changes in the skin of the periphery, rest adhesions in the joints, and slight vaso-motor palsy may be present. Functional Monoplegia.—The general descrip- tion above given for hemiplegia and paraplegia applies to functional paralysis when one limb only is affected. Special importance must be attached to the fact that the ansesthesia is apt to be much more extensive than is the paralysis. Thus in a case of functional paralysis, limited to the forearm and hand, complete analgesia involves the whole upper limb. Functional Ptosis.—This condition is usually bilateral, and differs from true ptosis in that the eyes are completely closed, and that an attempt to raise the lid with the finger is re- sisted by contraction of the orbicularis. There is no paralysis of the eye muscles, and the reflex action of the pupil is normal. There may be occasionally dissociated movements of the eyes. Functional Spasm of the Palate. — This is usually an intermittent spasm, always involving the side of the pharynx, and sometimes also the vocal cord. Its occurrence is rare. Functional aphonia, is one of the commonest forms of functional paralysis. Laryngoscopic examination reveals complete or partial adductor paralysis. Abductor paralysis never occurs as a functional condition. Occasionally all the movements of articulation and phonation are weakly performed. Hysterical Alutism. See "Aphasia." Phantom tumour, which may occur in con- nection with functional paralysis, is apparently due to contracture of the lateral muscles of the abdominal wall with paresis and relaxation of part of the rectus abdominis muscle. Astasia Abasia.—This term denotes a symp- tom and not a disease. The phenomenon is met with in hysteria, and less frequently in other nervous affections, and is most often evoked by emotional disturbance or treatment, though it has also followed infectious diseases. The patient while able to perform all move- ments of the legs fi'eely and with good power while lying in bed, becomes helpless, and collapses on trying to stand or walk, or experiences great difficulty in walking. See also "Hysteria" and "Neurasthenia." Course and Prognosis.—The course of the disease is very varied, and is often niarked by partial recovery, followed by relapses. The paralysis may disappear suddenly, sometimes as the result of some impressive therapeutic measure, sometimes without any definite cause. This result is more common in cases where the duration of the paralysis has been short. Much more often gradual improvement takes place, and the paralysis takes weeks or even months to disappear. The prognosis is \^ orse, as regards ultimate recovery and the occurrence of relapses, when the general signs of hysteria are well marked. It is also worse the longer the duration of the disease, for the long-continued functional derangement must cause molecular alteration of the nervous elements. Complete and lasting recovery, however, has occurred after almost complete paraplegia has been present for seventeen years. Most of the cases ultimately recover so far as the paralysis is concerned. Some few end in organic disease of the nervous system, and death has occurred in rare instances from the anorexia and vomit- ing. The prognosis is favourable in proportion as definite causes can be traced and removed, especially deterioration of health of remediable character. Treatment. — The treatment of functional paralysis is that of hysteria in general (q.v.), the Weir Mitchell treatment being especially valuable. As regards the special treatment of functional paralysis, it is important that the patient should expect gain in power to follow any treatment adopted. Faradism to the affected limbs, passive movements, and massage are the necessary remedies. Elec- tricity, which these patients as a rule find very disagreeable, should be applied by the medical attendant or by a skilled nurse, as the more profound is the patient's respect for the treat- ment the better is the result. In severe cases, when movement is returning, the calls to increased effort must be very gradual and systematic, care being taken that no attempt is allowed to fail entirely or to produce fatigue. A patient who has been long bedridden should be encouraged to crawl about at first. When walking is first attempted it should be with the aid of a person on either side; subsequently a steady frame on wheels, which the patient pushes along and uses as a support, should be used. Any measure producing severe pain is harmful. Static electricity and circular blisters round the limb are useful. Sometimes brief ether ansesthesia has removed contracture. In long-standing cases, where contracture has led to permanent shortening of the muscles, tenotomy is sometimes advisable, but only after the disappearance of the paralysis. Diagnosis.—In the differentiation of functional paralysis from that of organic origin, it must be borne in mind that organic disease simulates functional disease more often and more closely than does functional disease organic disease. A case in which, after careful consideration, much doubt arises, is probably organic. Always to be kept in view is the possibility of the329 PARALYSIS appearance of true organic disease upon a functional background. Speaking generally of functional paralysis, the age, sex, and tempera- ment of the patient must be given weight. The history of previous manifestations of hysteria and the adequacy of cause to result in the production of the symptoms must be considered. In functional hemiplegia the absence of the usual causes for apoplexy (morbis cordis), etc., and the absence of conjugate deviation, true convulsion, coma, and aphasia at the onset are important. Crossed amblyopia, complete hemi- analgesia, and the occurrence of contracture soon ofter the onset, are the most important positive signs that a hemiplegia is functional. Absence of facial involvement is a useful negative sign. The importance of the plantar reflex and of Babinski's sign have been already dwelt on. The diagnosis of functional paraplegia is more difficult, since it is closely simulated by the early stages of one type of disseminated sclerosis. The most important positive functional signs are contradictory muscular phenomena, the gait, contractures and anaesthesia of greater extent than the paralysis, its upper limit being a circular line round the limb (almost the only other condition in which " stocking" and " glove " anaesthesia exists is peripheral neuritis —the anaesthesia is here always incomplete, always of smaller area than the paralysis, and is usually accompanied by pain). The Argyll-Robertson pupil, ocular paralysis, optic atrophy, incontinence of sphincters, girdle pain, alteration of faradic excitability, loss of knee-jerk, and the extensor response in the plantar reflex, are signs, the presence of one of which alone excludes uncomplicated func- tional disease. Paralysis Ag^itanS. See Paralysis {Paralysis with Tremor or Ataxy). Paralysis, Bell's. See Facial Nerve, Paralysis of. Paralysis, Bulbar. See Paralysis {Bulbar Paralysis). Paralysis, Cruveilhier's. See Paralysis {Chronic Spinal Mioscular Atrophy). Paralysis, Erb'S. See Paralysis {Spastic Parapilegia). Paralysis, infantile. See Paralysis {Spastic, Poliomyelitis). Paralysis, insanity associated with. Paralytic Insanity .... 329 Insanity associated with Gross Disease OF THE Brain ..... 329 Post-apoplectic Insanity . . . 330 Organic Dementia . . .331 Gross disease of the brain, and of its hard and soft coverings, is a frequent cause of mental aberration. In infancy and the early stages of life it arrests mental development and produces various forms of idiocy and imbecility, associated or not with epilepsy. Degenerations of the brain and of its membranes also occur frequently as secondary symptoms in many forms of in- sanity. In the present article consideration is limited to those grosser tissue changes which are the primary cause of insanity in adult life. First among these to be dealt with are sclerotic aff'ections of the neuroglia and blood- vessels of the brain. It must be admitted that our knowledge of the etiology and symptoms of cerebral sclerosis is not so accurate as could be wished. This is probably because many of the diseases referred to are comparatively rare, and because their symptoms, even when recognised, are often vague and indefinite. Sclerosis of the brain is of two kinds, primary and secondary. Secondary sclerosis, or atrophy, is consequent upon some previous lesion, such as haemorrhage, and need not be separately alluded to. Primary sclerosis may be divided into two classes : (a) disseminated or insvilar, and {b) diff'use sclerosis. Disseminated sclerosis is comparatively rarely met in association with mental disease. In those cases, however, in which the invasion of the brain by the sclerotic masses is extensive there is observed, in addition to the physical symptoms of progressive muscular weakness, jerky inco-ordination and nystagmus, the follow- ing mental symptoms : progressive mental weak ness, loss of intelligence and disturbance of the thought processes, but without any other active or positive symptoms of insanity. Gradually the symptoms end in dementia, with stupidity and loss of will power. Some cases may exhibit recurrent attacks of depression or excitement, which are, however, probably coincidental, and not connected with the disease. Certain cases may present such a striking resemblance to general paralysis as to render the diiferential diagnosis a matter of considerable difficulty, but the character of the tremor, of the speech affection, of the mental symptoms, and the presence of nystagmus, is usually sufficient to determine the diff"erence between the two diseases. Our knowledge of diffuse sclerosis is scanty, and the groups of diseases known under that name are badly defined. It occurs as a primary condition in children who are the subjects of congenital syphilis. It has also, according to Gowers, been observed, though rarely, in chronic alcoholism and associated with insular or dis- seminated sclerosis. Kraepelin and Homen describe the symptoms of diffuse sclerosis of the brain due to hereditary syphilis. The disease begins early in youth with vertigo, headache, unsteadiness of gait, and progressive deteriora-PARALYSIS, INSANITY ASSOCIATED WITH 330 tion of the mental processes. Later on is added slurring and difficulty of speech, spasms, con- tractures, incontinence, difficulty in swallowing, slight tremor, and in some cases convulsions. The mental weakness becomes more and more marked, and death takes place after the lapse of a series of years. The post-mortem indica- tions usually found are endarteritis. Atrophy of nerve fibres, especially in the fore-brain, slight changes in the pyramidal cells, and some increase of the neuroglia elements are also present. Binswanger has described a form of diffuse sclerosis which he calls arterio-sclerotic brain degeneration {Arterio-sklerotische Hirnentartung). This disease is, however, not confined to the brain vessels, but simultaneously affects those of other organs, such as the kidney. The vessel walls are partly atrophied, partly thickened, and the lumen is widened. Sometimes aneurysmal formations and capillary ruptures are met with. The neuroglia is increased, especially in foci around the affected vessels, and degenerative processes are found in the nerve cells and fibres of the cortex. The disease, which appears about forty or fifty years of age, is slow in develop- ment, and the clinical mental symptoms are various. They include headache, giddiness, ex- citement, and thought disturbance, and during the frequent remissions in these symptoms there is observable a blunting of the intelligence and stupidity which ends in dementia. The physical signs are paretic speech disturbance, aphasic forms, and frequently permanent paralysis of various parts of the body. Another form of diffuse sclerosis of the brain has been named by Binswanger chronic progressive subcortical en- cephalitis. This is a disease coming on about the fiftieth or sixtieth year, and is characterised by local paralyses and progressive dementia. The pathological changes observed are atrophy of the medullary subcortical fibi-es, widening of the brain cavities, especially the posterior ones, and atheroma of the blood-vessels. In all forms of mental disturbance casually related to cere- bral sclerosis the prognosis is grave. Gerehral Hcemorrhage. — In many instances where the onset of the apoplectic condition is sudden, consciousness is lost, and a state of coma prevails. It sometimes happens that the patients on awaking from the coma become delirious. The delirium is characterised by noise, shouting, and struggling. Other patients manifest mental confusion, loss of personal identity, loss of the sense of locality, and delu- sions. Where there is no extensive cerebral lesion or atheroma of the arteries, most of the cases recover sooner or later—generally sooner from the foregoing symptoms, but in others a certain amount of mental weakness remains permanently. As a rule, this mental enfeeble- ment is slight and affects only memory for dates and past events, or it produces in addition some facility of will power, and perhaps an increased emotionalism. In others, however, where there is extensive subsequent or co-existing lesion, such as laceration of the brain substance, it may either quickly or gradually terminate in a state of complete dementia. In htemorrhagic cerebi-al affections, the mental symptoms, like the bodily, depend largely upon the site of the lesion, its extent, upon its character, i.e. its complications, and upon the rapidity of absorption of the clot. If the haemorrhage be followed by local softening, the results are more grave. The age and state of health of the patient, and above all the state of his arteries, exercise great influence upon the subsequent course of the disease, and consequently upon the character of the mental symptoms. When there is marked aphasia the gravity of the mental symptoms is apt to be exaggerated, especially in amnesic and para- phasic conditions, where the patients talk non- sense while retaining an otherwise valid intelli- gence. But in senile cases with degenerated arteries all forms of mental disturbance, mania, melancholia, and delusions with hallucinations may occur. Some of the cases manifest recur- rent or alternating forms of insanity, and may pass through numerous phases of mental aberra- tion. The dominating mental state of such patients is, however, dementia with a noisy emotionalism. They are often very troublesome and difficult to manage, and are, as a rule, sleepless, especially during the acuter phases of the malady. Fortunately many of them settle down into a quiet, even dementia, without excitement or much depi'ession. The diagnosis and prognosis depend entirely upon the underlying cerebral lesion, its seat, extent, and character. In otherwise healthy persons the acuter symptoms which sometimes manifest themselves in the early stages may completely pass off, leaving, or not, a slight degree of mental weakness or instability. Softelling of the Brain.—The differential dia- gnosis between cerebral embolism and cerebral haemorrhage is often a matter of great difficulty. Owing to the fact that the most common seat of both lesions is the middle cerebral artery and its branches, the symptoms may be at first very similar. Initial loss of consciousness in embolism j is less frequent than in haemorrhage. In embol- ism due to syphilitic disease, for example, where the plugging of an atheromatous artery is a slow process, consciousness is more frequently pre- served than lost. Convulsions very frequently accompany the onset in embolism. Delirium may take the place of loss of consciousness, and in atheromatous softening a brief initial loss of consciousness is often succeeded by quiet delirium lasting for several days or even weeks (Gowers). Owing to the fact that the cortex supplied by the middle cerebral is frequently implicated, aphasia is much more common in softening than in haemorrhage. Mental symptoms are331 PARALYSIS, INSANITY ASSOCIATED WITH undoubtedly more prevalent and more pro- nounced in softening than in haemorrhage, be- cause when due to atheroma there is usually an extensive implication of all the cerebral arteries, which prevents reparative processes and inter- feres with brain nutrition, and because foci of softening are generally numerous and widely spread. The mental symptoms in brain soften- ing caused by occlusion of an artery, especially of the middle cerebral or one of its principal branches, are generally of a chronic and per- sistent character, their gravity depending upon the area and extent of area of the brain impli- cated, and upon the state of the brain and its arteries. Tumours.—The mental symptoms accompany- ing brain tumours depend upon their site, their size, and the rapidity with which they grow. In the larger tumours the character of the symptoms is influenced more by their pressure upon the brain, and less by their site. It has been held by some authorities that tumours of the occipital lobes are more detrimental to mental activity than tumours of the frontal lobes, and the contrary opinion is held by others. On that point, however, we have as yet no clear knowledge. In slow-growing tumours of con- siderable size, even when the cortex is largely implicated, the mental symptoms may be very slight up to the end. On the other hand, when the tumour by rapid growth gives rise to marked pressure symptoms, there is usually observable a varying degree of mental dulness and stupidity. The attention of the patients in such cases be- comes more and more difficult to rouse, until at last, except for the pain of the headache from which they suffer, they appear indifferent to all phenomena, either external or internal. When, on the other hand, the tumour is small and of slow growth, a great variety of elements would appear to complicate its relation to insanity. According to some authorities, there may occur moral changes with obsessions and impulses towards various antisocial actions, chief among which is violence. Without questioning this observation, it may be pointed out that many such tumours are of syphilitic origin, that many of the subjects are prone to indulgence in alcohol, and that some of them suffer from epilepsy. Apart, however, from these excep- tions, it may probably be admitted that not a few cases owe a change of disposition in the direction of moral decadence and impulsive con- duct directly to the presence of cerebral tumour. A group of cases exists in which the presence of tumour in the brain gives rise to acute insanity, with hallucinations and delusions which bear a striking resemblance to similar symptoms of toxic origin. The most commonly met with symptoms in cerebral tumour are confusion of thought and dulness of expression. This slow- ness in expressing ideas is materially increased by the peci;liar speech of the majority of the patients. The words are slowly and deliberately uttered, and the syllables scanned. In addition to the above symptoms there are commonly met with loss of memory, depression alternating with excitement, and emotional instability. A noisy delirium with hallucinations and delusions may occasionally be observed. Finally, com- plete dementia, generally accompanied with periodic convulsions, is met with in tumours of the frontal lobes. It is well to bear in mind that hysteria may be a prominent symptom of cerebral tumour in predisposed persons, and may so obscure the physical and mental symp- toms as to cause the diagnosis to be at fault (Gowers). Cerebral abscess, apart from its site or size, may cause acute insanity. It is true that beyond a certain amount of confusion, due to constitutional influences, some patients offer no mental symptoms indicative of cerebral change. In acute abscesses, especially those of traumatic origin, the mental dulness and confusion are prominent symptoms. The patients are ob- livious of their surroundings, answer questions at random or incoherently, they are listless, restless, dreamy, and often agitated. In addi- tion to physical symptoms depending on con- stitutional disturbance and local pressure the patients may manifest catalepsy, aphasia of different kinds, cortical epilepsy, Cheyne-Stokes breathing, and other irritative symptoms. In chronic abscess the mental symptoms of the latent period are usually obscure and unim- portant, and when more pronounced are gener- ally of the melancholic type. The latent stage in such cases is, however, generally terminated by such symptoms as stupor, delirium followed by coma, or by severe mental depression ending in coma. Paralysis, Klumpke's. See Klumpke's Paralysis. Paralysis, Landry's. See Paralysis {Flaccid Type, Landry's). Paralysis, Little's. See Little's Dis- ease ; Paralysis (Spastic Infantile, Cerebral). Paramastitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the mammary gland. Paramastoid Process.—A project- ing process of bone occasionally found on the under surface of the jugular process of the occiput; it sometimes articulates with the transverse process of the atlas. Paramedial Sulcus.—A sulcus (or several sulci) in the frontal lobe of the cerebrum, subdividing its superior convolution into upper and lower parts ; they are present in the human brain but not in that of the higher apes.PARAMENIA 332 Pa.ra.menia,. — Irregular or disordered menstruation. Parametritis. — Inflammation of the cellular tissue (chiefly in the broad ligaments) in the neighbourhood of the uterus. See Pelvis, Diseases op the Cellular Tissue {Pelvic Cellu- litis) ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Puerperal In- fection, Parametritis). Parametritis Chronica Atro- phicans.—A chronic inflammatory process producing cirrhotic contraction and hardening of the pelvic connective tissue, similar to that occurring in the liver or kidneys ; it may be either diftuse or circumscribed; it has no acute stage. Param i m ia. — Disordei'ed gestures ; a form of aphasia in which the gestures used by the patient do not agree with the words spoken. Paramnesia.—An ailection of the memory in which the signification of words heard or seen is forgotten; or, an illusion of memory by which the individual thinks he has already passed through an experience which he is only now experiencing. See Sleep, Normal AND Morbid {Hypnagogic State, Paramnesia in Alcoholics). Paramusia.—Perversion of the musical sense, wrong notes at improper intervals being- produced ; it occurs in some forms of aphasia. Paramyoclonus Multiplex. See Spasm ( Varieties, Ftmctional); Hysteria {Motor Disorders, Saltatorius Spasm). Paramyosinogen. —A protein (globu- lin) of muscle, which by clotting produces myosin and causes rigor mortis. See Physi- ology, Tissues {Muscle, Chemistry). Paramyotonia Cong^enita. See Muscles, Diseases of {Myotonia Congenita or Thomsen's Disease). Paranephritis. — Inflammation of the adrenal gland {paranephros) or of the cellular tissue in the neighbourhood of the kidney. Paranephros.— The suprarenal cap- sule or adrenal gland. See Adrenal Glands, Diseases of. ParaneUriSm us. —A nervous affection. Paranoia. Synonyms : Delusional Insanity, Monomania, Megalomania, Delire de persecution, Delire des degeneres, Verriicktheit, Chronischer Wahnsinn. See also Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility). The term " paranoia," introduced by the German physician von Gudden, is not a convenient one either from the etymological or descriptive standpoint, but its very general acceptance in Germany and in America renders its change undesirable in the interest of uniformity. The nomenclature of the various groups of mental aff"ections which it embraces is so diverse, and the ambiguity arising fi'om the apparently contradictory views of numerous writers is so confusing, that a brief resume of the historical development of our knowledge of the subject is necessary for the purpose of correctly under- standing it. The disease was first called mononiania by Esquirol, who defined it as "a chronic cerebral afl'ection without fever, and characterised by a partial lesion of the intelligence, the aff'ections, or the will." Prichard cut through Esquirol's definition by describing two distinct aff'ections —moral insanity and monomania. The effect of Prichard's writings on European opinion was profound, and his views are still regarded as final by many of his countrymen, for he was the first and the last English psychiatrist to contribute essentially to the knowledge of the subject. In 1852 Lasegue published his famous monograph, Du delire de persecution, in which he dissociated from the classifications of his predecessors that group of the insane whose symptoms are essentially those of the disease under consideration. A few years later Morel pointed out the existence of cases in which there occurred in the course of the disease a trans- formation of the mental disposition, of the delusions, and of the hallucinations. Patients who were at one stage depressed, miserable, subject to delusions of persecution and disagree- able hallucinations, passed into a state of gaiety, with delusions of grandeur and agreeable hallu- cinations. In 1871 Foville described what he believed to be a hitherto unobserved form of insanity, which he called megalomania. He acknowledged the truth of Morel's observation regarding the transition in certain cases from persecution to ainbition, but he included in his megalomania other clinical forms, in which grandiose delusions and delusions of persecution co-existed or alternated. The opinions of the two last-named writers were greatly modified by Falret, to whom credit is due for elucidating still further the tangled skein of the problem of paranoia. It remained for Magnan, however, to give to the world in bold relief the clear description of systematised insanity which will always be associated with his name. In his monograph entitled Le Delire chronique a evolu- tion systematique, the latest teaching of the French school, paranoia is divided into two great groups, namely : (1) Progressive systematised delusional insanity, in which the course of the disease is slowly progressive, and invariably commencing with depression and delusions of persecution, passes into ambition with expansive delusions; and (2) an affection, not necessarilyPARANOIA 333 progressive, characterised by irregular manifes- tations of systematised delusion either of a depressed or of an ambitious nature. The latter is termed by Magnan the systematised insanity of the degenerate. With few excep- tions, English authors are in the position in which Prichard left the subject upwards of sixty years ago. The views of German psychiatrists will be best understood from the following references to the writings of one or two of their leading authorities. Schiile divides paranoia into two groups, Originare Verriicktheit (delu- sional insanity of the degenerate) and Chroni- scher Wahnsinn (chronic systematised insanity). The latter comprehends persecution mania and ambitious delusional insanity or megalomania. Krafft Ebing classifies paranoia as follows:— (1) Primare Verriicktheit, which he subdivides into (a) Originare Verriicktheit (commencing in childhood), and lb) Paranoia tardiva, which includes the insanity of persecution and megalo- mania ; (2) Hallucinatorische Wahnsinn, charac- terised by the excitation of the sensory centres in an exhausted brain. In this division are included a host of dissimilar conditions, such as acute alcoholism, forms of puerperal insanity, post-febrile insanity, and certain mental affec- tions found among prisoners. A majority of German psychiatrists have been influenced by KrafFt Ebing's teaching, with the result that not only was the identity of paranoia in danger of being lost, but that considerable misunder- standing, due to a confusion of nosological terms, arose between German writers and their confreres in other countries. Fortunately, Kraeplin has recently raised his voice in protest, and in the last edition of his text-book has ably combated the inclusion of such absolutely different symp- tomatic forms as those last mentioned under the head of paranoia. His conception of paranoia is that of a systematised delusional insanity, commencing with persecution, but always accompanied by gradually developing delusions of grandeur. A second form, com- prising a partially systematised insanity of the degenerate, he terms Der Querulantenwahn. To a corresponding class of the insane the French writers give the name persecutes perse- cuteurs persecuters. Both terms are expressive and descriptive of a group of patients who consider themselves wronged by society, and who are constantly demanding redress. From the above resum4 of the writings of various authors during the past century it will be seen that a continuous consensus of opinion has isolated a disease, the clinical nomenclature of which is diverse. To this disease many generic names have been given, but it would appear that paranoia must now for the sake of uniformity be accepted. Confusion as to clinical forms has necessarily arisen. The monomania of English writers is obsolete, and they themselves have done nothing to justify it. The paranoia of the Germans is in a state of chaos, out of which Kraeplin has done much to redeem it, but compared with the fulness of Magnan's descriptions, his presentation of clinical forms is meagre and unsatisfactory. There remain the delire chronique and the delire des degeneres of the French school. In favour of this view two arguments may be submitted: first, the undoubted prevalence of the affection in France; and, second, the trustworthiness of the men who have devoted their lives to the study of the affection. The names of these men, some of which have been already mentioned, are among the most eminent of European psychiatrists. But the proof of the truth of the French teaching will only be found in the inner conviction which results from a clinical study of the disease as depicted by their writers. Under the title borrowed from the Germans, the description of the affection which follows is on the lines of the French psychiatrists, and in accordance with their teaching it is divided into—I. Progressive systematised insanity, and II. The systema^tised insanity of the degenerate. I. Progressive Systematised Insanity Definition.—This disease is a chronic mental affection characterised by delusions of a fixed kind, and by hallucinations of hearing, of touch, and of pain. In the course of the affection there occurs a complete transformation of the person- ality of the patient and of the earlier symptoms of the insanity, accompanied by the appearance of delusions of an ambitious character, with cor- responding hallucinations of hearing. Magnan divides the affections into four stages. The first period, or period of incubation, is charac- terised by illusion, insane interpretation, and mental anxiety. In the second period, or stage of persecution, the principal phenomena are delusions of persecution, hallucinations of hear- ing and of general sensibility. The third period, or stage of ambition, presents hallucinations of hearing of an agreeable character, along with delusions of grandeur. The fourth and last period is that of failing intellectual power or dementia. Etiology. — The disease manifests itself in adult life usually after thirty years of age, and in persons who had previously been of sound health and free from intellectual disorder. Hereditary predisposition does not play an important part in the production of the disease, although it exists in a large proportion of cases. The disease is more common in the female sex, and is more prevalent among married women who have led unhappy domestic lives. Pro- longed disappointment, reverses of fortune, remorse, and jealousy are among the causes usually assigned. The physical causes cited as conducing to the malady comprise those influences which give rise to debility.PARANOIA 334 Period of Invasion.—The period of invasion is generally a slow and gradual one, the disorder manifesting itself at first indefinitely with malaise and uncomfortable sensations which forcibly attract the attention of the patient, especially when the sensations are of an intense nature. The appetite for food, the capacity for work and sleep are all diminished. The subjects of these disordered functions and sensations become suspicious, and imagine that there is something peculiar in their appearance which may be visible to other people. From such ideas the transition is easy to the belief that they are stared at for some purpose, that they are despised or distrusted, or socially tabooed, until ultimately they lose self-control, and openly accuse people of annoying them. To these imaginations the patients add a review of their past life, persistently dwelling upon slights, insults, and oversights which they may have previously experienced, until they become convinced that they have long been the victims of systematic persecution. In some cases the symptoms of the invasion period are so vague as not to attract the attention of other people, or so short that the appearance of hallucinations of hearing which usher in the second stage may be mistaken for the commencement of the malady. Second Period.—Hallucinations of hearing of a disagreeable nature are a constant symptom of the second stage. They begin vaguely as sounds or noises in the ears, and proceed steadily until isolated words are formed, and finally complete sentences and even long conversations are heard by the patient. In the majority of cases these hallucinations are unilateral, but in some cases bilateral. In the latter case it is not unusual for the patient to be cognisant of different voices in each ear. Hallucinations of hearing persist throughout the disease, but when the second stage is established other hallucinations commence to appear. First among these are hallucinations of taste and smell, upon which the patients found their delusions of poisoning, the most persistent delusions of the disease. Succeeding these come those of touch, pain, and general sensi- bility, luider the influence of which the patients are often driven to retaliative measures against their supposed tormentors. Lastly, genital and sexual hallucinations make their appearance. These are usually of an intense and distressing character, absorbing the patient's whole atten- tion, and disturbing his self-control more than any other kind of false perception. In men they may give rise to a belief in attempts at castration, emasculation, bleeding from the penis, venereal inoculation, or attempts at sodomy; in women, of pregnancy, obscene practices, rape, and the introduction of foreign bodies into the vagina. The state of sensory hallucination is the most prominent and characteristic stage of the disease. The sufferings of the patient are often intense in this period, which may last from two to twenty years without any modification in the symptoms of the disease. It is important to observe, however, that all the symptoms are during this stage subject to remissions, in some cases to a slight extent, while in others there may be complete relief for periods varying from a few days to several months. Third Period. — Period of exaltation and ambition. In proportion as the disease ad- vances, and at the end of a time which varies with each case, ideas of grandeur are superadded to the existing ideas of persecution. The delusions of persecution do not at once pass away; in many cases they persist during the life of the patient, but they gradually lose their intensity, and may only remain in the mind as a disagreeable memory. Along with the delusions of ambition, hallucinations of hearing of a coi'responding nature displace the previous hallucinations of the second stage, which are always disagreeable. The delusions of ambition are extremely various, and include those of pride, grandeur, wealth, and temporal and supernatural power. They are well defined and systematised, but in their expression there is manifested a tendency towards mysticism, with the formation of new and bizarre words, and a haziness bred of the difficulty of reconciling the life of phantasy with the true environment of which the patient is normally conscious. Fourth Period.—Period of dementia. From the stage of ambitious delusion to that of dementia the progress is slight and gradual. The dementia is not equivalent to what is known as secondary or terminal dementia, but a mental weakness of a mild kind, a form of intellectual lowering in which, nevertheless, the patients retain their physical activity and their power of conversing in a rational manner on various subjects outside their delusions. The mysticism, to which reference has been made, markedly increases, and there is a tendency to wandering of the thoughts, and an absurd extravagance of expressing opinions in connection with the delusions. Some authori- ties, notably Falret and Rith, do not recognise the period of dementia. Prognosis.—The prognosis is very unfavour- able, and no treatment hitherto discovered has any influence in modifying the invariable and inevitable course of the malady. Most of the patients require to be confined, and their treatment in asylums is purely moral and symptomatic. II. Systematised Insanity in the Degenerate The description already given of progressive systematised insanity is sufficient to indicate the broad lines of the malady as it is commonly335 PARANOIA met with. The symptoms do not differ from those observed in the degenerate, but the course of the affection in the latter is diff'erent. One important distinction is the rapidity with which insanity in the degenerate may become systema- tised. Slowly and under the prolonged in- fluence of hallucinations the delusions in the chronic form develop, but in the degenerate they may burst forth, fully formed, without the accompaniment of hallucinations. The manifestation of systematised insanity in the degenerate is also more irregular and varied. The onset of the insanity may be slow and insidious, or quick and explosive. In the first instance the patient is usually a recluse, and reasons out his own symptoms step by step, or he consults books of every description, from which he culls irrelevant passages, which he believes to have a bearing on his own case. The affection may present itself in any of the following forms:— (1) The commencement may be ambition, with delusions of exaltation. A patient who has previously been reticent and shy may all at once be convinced that he is born to great things and with a special destiny. Such people deny their parentage, and assign to themselves exalted origin. Yet these insane ideas appear to have little root, and the belief in their reality does not seriously affect the real life of the subject. Gradually delusions of persecution come to be added to the ideas of grandeur. The patient imagines that his name or his exalted position renders him an object of suspicion and hatred to others, who, by plotting and persecution, wish to deprive him of his rights. From this point a regular systematised insanity of persecution is developed. (2) Delusions of persecution may manifest themselves first of all. These appear to originate very much after the manner of imperative ideas, and are usually systematised without the aid of hallucinations, which come on, as a rule, later in the course of the disease. They in their turn may be followed by delusions of pride and grandeur and an ambitious insanity. (3) The two forms (ambition and persecution) may bm-st out simultaneously, progress side by side, and succeed each other alternately, causing periods of depression and exaltation. (4) The manifestations of the systematised delusional insanity may be preceded by, inter- rupted by, or terminated by attacks of acute insanity, such as mania, melancholia, or stupor. (5) The character of the insanity varies ac- cording to the intellectual development of the patient. When the patient is of limited intelli- gence the delusions are usually ridiculous and absurd, but when the intelligence is of a higher order they correspond more to the tone and definiteness of those of a case of true systema- tised insanity. But, as has been indicated, the character of the delusions of the degenerate is feeble and lacking in conviction and reality. This feature and the variability of the symptoms depend upon the weakness and exceedingly unstable mental constitution of the patients. (6) The terminations of the affection are also numerous. Sometimes the cases pass through a whole series of changes—ambition, persecution, with recuri'ent maniacal melancholic or stuporose attacks, and ultimately recover. In others the character of the symptoms frequently alters, but the end is dementia. Others, again, pass through a metamorphosis from ambition to per- secution, or vice versd, and remain in the latter phase until recovery or during life. Prognosis.—It is unnecessary to state that in such a hydra-headed group of insanities prognosis must be a matter of great difficulty. Generally speaking, it is in the majority of cases unfavourable. The more acute the symptoms the more rapidly the insanity changes; and the more frequent is the admixture of acute general conditions, such as mania and melancholia, the more favourable is the prospect. Conversely, the more chronic the symptoms are, the more unchangeable the insanity ; and the more con- firmed the mental condition which underlies all the symptoms, the more unfavourable the prognosis. The term "secondary paranoia" has been applied by some writers to the delusional states met with in certain forms of melancholia, espe- cially anxious and hypochondriacal melancholia, and to the delusion met with in some forms of terminal dementia. In the former the delusions bear little or no resemblance to those of paranoia, and in the latter they are too indefinite and too loosely systematised to be entered into a separate classification. Pa,ra.nuClein.—A combination of albu- men with metaphosphoric acid. Pa,ra.n UCleon.—Phospho-carnic acid. Paranucleus.—A small body lying near the nucleus of a cell, and perhaps origina- ting in the nucleus ; a subsidiary nucleus. Paraparesis.—Partial paralysis of the lower limbs. Pa,ra,pa.th ia.—Moral insanity. Paraphasia. — A form of aphasia in which one word is used when another is in- tended, or in which a word is mispronounced. See Aphasia {Clinical Features). Parapllia.—An anomaly in the sense of touch. Paraphimosis. — Retraction of the prepuce behind the glans penis, with resulting vascular engorgement of the glans from con- striction. See Urethra, Diseases of {Goitm--336 PARAPHIMOSIS rhoea,GompUcations); Venereal Disease {Para- phimosis). Pa,ra,phonia,.—A morbid alteration of the voice. Pa.ra,phora.. — Mental derangement; usually a mild form of insanit3\ Pa.ra,phra.Sia,. — Incoherence of speech as a clinical feature in aphasia. Pa,ra.p h re n es is.—Mental derangement, especially deliiium. ParaphrenitiS.—(1) Mental derange- ment ; (2) inflammation of the diaphragm, re- garded as the cause of (1). Paraph rosy ne Calentura. See Calenture. Paraplasm.—(l) A heteroplasm or neo- plasm ; or (2) the non-protoplasmic portion of a cell-substance, the paramitom {Flemming) or deutoplasm. Parapleg'ia. — Paralysis of the lower limbs and of the lower part of the trunk (Gr. ■n-apa, beside, and TrAi/cro-ftv, to strike). See Alcoholism (Motor Variations); Aorta, Thor- acic, Aneurysm {Terminations); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Paralysis); Defor- mities {Arising from Cerebral and Spinal Para- lysis, Compression - Paraplegia); Dysentery {Complications); Hysteria {Motor Disorders) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lymphadenoma, Pressure Symptoms); Malin- gering {Nervous Diseases); Meningitis, Epi- demic Cbrebro-spinal {Symptoms, Paralysis) ; Paraly'SIS {Spastic Paraplegia ; Familial Type; Syphilitic Paraplegia; Congenital Type; In- fantile Type); Paralysis {Disseminated Sclerosis, Diagnosis); Pellagra {Sympto7ns, Nervous); Spinal Cord, Medical (Vascular Lesions, Tumours, etc.); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Compression - Paraplegia, Caisson Disease); Tabes Dorsalis ; Toxicology {Lathyrism, Symp- toms) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Paraplegia). " Parapleg^ie Flasque."—That form of compression-paraplegia in which (the trans- verse lesion being complete) the limbs are flaccid and there is no increase in the reflexes. Parapleuritis. — A slight form of pleurisy, or (sometimes) pleurodynia. ParapophysiS. — The anterior trans- verse process of a vertebra. Paraproctitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the rectum. ParapsiS.—Disordered sense of touch. Parapsoriasis.—An anomalous form of psoriasis. Pararectal Fossa.—A pouch of peri- toneum lying between the front of the rectum and the posterior wall of the pelvis on each side ; the fossa is obliterated when the bowel is full. -Difiiculty in articulation ; Inability to pro- Pararthria. disordered speech. Parasig^matism. nounce the letter s or sh. Parasinoidal Sinuses. — Irregular spaces in the dura mater of the brain communi- cating by small openings with the superior longitudinal sinus ; lacunae laterales. Parasites. Introductory . . . . .337 Protozoa— AmoehcB . Cercomonas Trypanosoma Lamblia . Coccidiida Hcemosporidia Doubtful Hcemosporidia Sa7'cos2ioridia . Infusoria— Balantidium coli . Spirochceta and Trypanosomes Trematodes— Fasciola hepatica Dicrocoelium lanceolatum . Distomum oculi humani . Opisthorchis felineus ,, conjunctus ,, sinensis . „ Buski . „ Rathouisi Mesogonimus heterophyes . ,, Westermanni Amphistonium hominis Schistosomwn hoematobium Cestodes Taenia saginata ,, solium . Cysticercus cellulosce Tcenia africana ,, asiatica. Dipylidiiim caninum Hymenolepsis nana . ,, diminuta Davainea madagascariensis Bothrioceplmlus latus „ cristatus . „ cordatus . „ Mansoni . Symptoms caused by Tapeworms Echinococcus polymorphus Nematodes .... Strongyloides intestinalis . {Anguillula intestinalis)PARASITES 337 Nematodes {continued)— Trichocephahis trichiurus ■ . . 355 Trichina spiralis .... 355 Eustrongylus visceralis . . . 357 Strongylus subtilis .... 357 Uncinaria duodenalis . . .357 Ascaris himbricoides. . . .359 Oxyuris vermicularis . . .360 ACANTHOCEPHAH— Echinorhynchus gigas . . .361 ,, hominis . . .361 Arthropods— Scarcoptes scabiei . . . .361 ,, minor .... 361 Demodex folliculorum . . .361 Linguatula caprina . . . .361 Porocephalus constrictus . . .362 Insects ...... 362 See also Anaemia {Causes, Parasites); Beriberi {Cause); Brain, Tumours of {Etiology, Para- sitic) ; Cough {Causes, Entozoa); F^CES {Abnor- malities, Foreign Bodies); Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Morbid Processes, Parasites of the Heart); Invalid-Feeding {General Prepara- tion of Food, Cooking); Liver, Diseases of {Liver Parasites); Lungs, Parasitic Affections of {Aspergillosis, etc.); Malaria ; Mel^na {Dia- gnosis) ; Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Parasitic Diseases) ; Nails, Affections of the {Parasitic Diseases); Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Due to Animal and Vegetable Para- sites) ; Skin, Parasites ; Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases {Morbid Anatomy, Infective Gastritis); Stomatitis {Parasitic). Although parasites belong both to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, only the animal para- sites are considered in the following article. Parasitic animals are those which, in order to obtain their nourishment, live within, or upon another living organism, termed their host. True parasites nourish themselves on the living material (blood, lymph, etc.) of their host; saprophytic parasites obtain their nourish- ment from lifeless material, such as that within the alimentary canal, or that on the outer surface of the host. Many parasites are patho- genetic ; but though some of the saprophytic parasites do not harm their host, it is doubtful whether any animal parasites are "symbiotic," or, in other words, whether any are beneficial to their host. Some parasites, Trichina sph-alis and Fasciola hepatica, for example, are found in different species of animals, whilst other parasites are limited to a single species. Thus the adult TcBnia solium, Strongyloides intestinalis, and Oxyuris vermicularis are parasitic only in man, and Taenia serrata is found solely in the dog. The present article deals only with the parasites of man, exception being made, however, of a few species parasitic in the lower animals, which VOL. VII are referred to on account of their close relation- ship to species parasitic in the human subject, or because a knowledge of such parasites is of importance in a study of the parasites of man. The anatomical situation of a parasite is known as its habitat, animal parasites being designated Ectozoa or Entozoa according as they live upon or within their host. Each parasitic species has what may be termed a normal habitat. That of the adult Cestodes, for example, is the intestinal canal, that of Sarcoptes scabiei is the skin, that of Echinococcus polymorphus certain internal organs. In some instances, however, parasites are found in ab- normal situations; Ascarides, for example, may be found in the respiratory passages. The parasitism of some animals is transitory, that of others is permanent. The mode of reproduction within the body ^ of the host is very varied. Some parasites, for instance the protozoa, produce successive generations witliin the host; others, for instance the worms, when within the host merely attain sexual maturity, and give origin to a second generation, which does not forthwith become sexually mature in the same host. In some instances this second generation becomes mature, however, after re-entering the same host, or after gaining entrance to another host of the same species. In other instances two specifi- cally different hosts are necessary for completion of the life cycle of the parasite, which is im- mature in the one and sexually mature in the other host. In the latter instance, then, a change or alternation of host is requisite for the developmental cycle of the parasite, and the animal harbouring the sexually mature parasite is the definitive host, that harbouring the immature parasite is the intermediate host. There are various modes in which man is infected. The ingestion of eggs or immature forms of parasites together with water or vegetables is one of the most common. By the ingestion of eggs man is infected with Cysticercus cellulosce, Echinococcus polymorphus, Asca7-is lumbricoides, Oxyuris vermicularis, etc.; by the ingestion of immature species he is infected with Uncinaria duodenalis, Strongyloides intestinalis, and Trematodes. Again, infection may be brought about by ingestion of the immature parasites in an intermediate host. It is thus that man is infected with the adult Cestodes and with Trichina sjnralis. And, lastly, parasites may be transmitted by the direct agency of the second host, as is the case with Filariidaj and Hsemosporidia. Animal parasites cause disease in a variety of ways, of which the most important are:— 1. By mechanical injury; for instance, when an Echinococcus growing within the liver exerts pressure on neighbouring structures, or when Ascarides wander into the bile-ducts, or when Trichinae, Ascarides, or other worms penetrate 22PARASITES 338 the intestinal wall. 2. By the presence of the parasite exciting inflammatory reaction in the tissues (larval Trichinae, Cysticerci, etc.). 3. By withdrawal of nutrient material, as when there are many large intestinal worms. 4. By removal of blood, e.g. by Uncinaria duodenalis and others. 5. By production of poisonous substances, e.g. malarial protozoa, Cestodes, Uncinaria duodenalis, TricJiocephalus trichiurus, etc. (v. Linstow, 1896 ; Peiper, 1897 ; and many other authorities). The various substances which resemble, and may be mistaken for parasites, are termed pseudoparasites. The animal parasites may be considered under the three headings:— A. Protozoa, B. Parasitic worms (Helminths), C. Arthropods. Protozoa The protozoa are unicellular animals, the simplest of all animal organisms. Their general form and structure, the modes of movement, nutrition, and multiplication have been con- sidered in vol. vi. p. 388. Their classification into five classes is the most satisfactory. Four of these five classes have to be considered, namely :— I. Movement effected by pseu- dopodia . . . Rhizopoda. II. Movement effected by fla- gellse .... Mastigophora. III. Movement variously effect- ed, usually impaired. Multiplication by numer- ous encapsuled reproduc- tive bodies (spores) . Sporozoa. IV. Cilia present throughout life, nutrition by osmosis or cytostoma . . Ciliata. Rhizopoda ; Syn. : Sarcodina. — The cell protoplasm is either simple or differentiated into ecto- and ento-plasm. Movement and nutrition occur by means of pseudopodia, re- production is by division. Of the five orders included in this class only two, Amoehina and Mycetozoa, are parasitic. But the latter are parasitic only on plants, hence only the parasites laelonging to the order Amoebina have to be considered. Genus Amoeba.—Many organisms of this genus inhabit fresh or salt water, others are parasitic. Within the last few years attempts, but hitherto without success, have been made to isolate and cultivate amoebae on artificial media, in some instances by providing bacteria as the source of nourishment (Ogata, 1893; Celli and Fiocca, 1896; Schardinger, 1896; etc.). Doflein (1901) considers that the cultures obtained have usually been Mycetozoa and not true amoebcB. Amoeba coli (Loesch, 1875) is 10-50 ^l. in diameter, rounded or irregular, uninuclear, has coarsely granular entoplasm with several non- contractile vacuoles, and often contains foreign particles ; pseudopodia are short and finger-like. Multiplication is by division whilst still motile Fig. 1.—Ammha coli. (Brauii, after Kovacs.) or after becoming encysted. The encysted amoebse possess a much greater power of resist- ance than does the ordinary amoeba, and it is possible that infection of the host occurs by the ingestion of the former. A. coli has been found most frequently in the fseces and large intestine of man, though also in water and soil polluted by dejecta. The parasite has been observed in the stools of healthy persons and of those suffer- ing from dysentery, typhoid fever, cholera, etc., and also in the pus of tropical hepatic abscesses. The chief interest of A. coli lies in its association with dysentery, for although a direct etiological connection of the parasite with this disease has hitherto not been proven, it is generally held that in those types of the disease designated "amoebic dysentery," A. coli plays a part to- gether with one or more species of pathogenetic bacteria in the causation of the disease. It is suggested, but on grounds which appear quite indecisive, that there are at least two distinct species of intestinal amoebse—the one, A. dysen- terice, found only in dysentery, and differing from the ordinary saprophytic A. coli in being smaller and more finely granular. Further details regarding A. coli will be found in the articles on Dysentery in vol. ii., and on Tropical Abscess of the Liver in vol. v. Amoebse, possibly identical with A. coli, and of doubtful pathogenicity, have been observed in the urine of patients suffering from ha3ma- turia, within cysts in the mucosa of the urinary bladder, and in a sequestrum from the inferior maxilla. Saprophytic amoebse are also found in the intestine of several species of animals, but it is doubtful whether A. parasitica, described by von Lendenfeld (1885) as causing a fatal skin disease in lambs in Australia, is a protozoon. The rhizopods found by Leyden and Schaudinn (1896) in ascitic fluid resemble amoebse in many respects. Mastigophora.—All the parasitic organisms are contained in the subclass of the Flagellata. These all possess flagellse; nutrition is main- tained in a variety of ways; multiplication is by fission, either when in a free or resting stage. There is frequently a sexual multiplication also. Many flagellates are parasitic in insects. Those which concern us here are all included in one339 PARASITES or other of the following genera—Cercomonas, Trypanosoma, Trichomonas, or Lamblia. The organisms of the genus Cercomonas are ovoid or spherical, small and colourless, and have one flagellum anteriorly. They have on many occasions been detected in the sputum, lungs, and pleuritic exudations both of man and the lower animals, and are no doubt merely saprophytic. TrypanosomMa are mostly of an elongated and spiral form, uninuclear, with usually only one flagelhxm anteriorly and actively motile. Their development is as yet imperfectly understood. Trypanosoma Leivisi (Kent, 1882), 8-20 /w, long by 1-2 broad, was found by Lewis (1879) in the blood of rats. In them it is usually saprophytic, and is possibly identical with similar organisms in the blood of certain fishes. It is probably specifically distinct from the Trypanosoma Brucei (Plimmer and Bradford, 1899).—This resembles T. Lewisi morpho- logically, and is about 10-12 fx. long. The posterior extremity is obtuse. It is found in the blood of the ox, horse, mule, camel, etc., and can be transmitted to the dog and rat. It is, as shown by Bruce (1894, 1897), the cause of tsetse fly disease, or nagana, in Central, East, and South Africa, the disease being transmitted by the tsetse fly, which infects the animals by its bite. The disease is not transmissible to man. Trypanosoma Evansi, first recorded by Evans in 1880, is 20-30 (x long by 1-2 fj. broad, and has the posterior extremity pointed. It is parasitic in the blood of the horse, camel, goat, and other animal species in India and the Dutch East Indies, causing chiefly in the horse and mule the disease termed surra, of which irregular fever and anaemia are prominent symptoms. The disease is possibly inoculated by the bite of Tahanus tropicus. E. R. Rost (1901) finds tliat the inoculation of surra blood into goats is followed by a fever of short dura- tion, but that the subsequent injection of their blood serum into mules and ponies is the reverse of beneficial. It is not yet decided whether surra and tsetse fly disease are the same or different diseases. The clinical signs of both are very similar, but the tsetse fly is not known to exist in India. Trypanosoma of dourine was first described by Rouget (1896) as being 18-26 n long by 2-2"5 /A broad. It is found in the blood of mares and stallions, causing the disease known as dourine in France and as die Beschdlseuche in Germany. The disease is transmitted by coitus, and is now regarded as specifically distinct from surra and tsetse fly disease. Other organisms belonging to the same family as the trypanosomata are found in the intestine of the house-fly and of certain birds, and in the blood of fishes, frogs, etc., but it JFlO. 2.—Trichomonas horainis. (After Grassi.) is doubtful whether any are parasitic in man. Of the different species belonging to the genus Trichomonas only two are found in the human subject. They are: I. Trichomonas vaginalis (Donne, 1837), spindle or pear-shaped, usually about 17 /a long, the posterior end pointed, the anterior bearing three flagellse. It is a common saprophyte in acid vaginal mucus, and has also been found in the urethra and urine from both sexes. II. Tricho- monas hominis (Davaine, 1854) ; Syn. : Cercomonas hominis; etc., is pyriform, 4-10 /j. long, with three flagelhe anteriorly. It is found in the healthy intestine and in the ffeces of persons suffering from diar- rhoea, but is probably a mere saprophyte (Fig. 2). Lamhlia intestinalis (Lambl, 1859).—It is pear or carrot shaped, 10-16 jx long; shows a suctorial depression anteriorly, has two long flagellse attached to the pointed posterior extremity, and three pairs of flagellse to the anterior half of the body. It inhabits the upper half of the small intestine of man and many of the lower animals, and is also found in the faeces when the host suffers from diarrhoea. Like T. hominis it is saprophytic. Sporozoa are all parasitic. At one stage in their life-cycle they all multiply by the splitting off of encapsuled bodies, which are often termed "spores." Owing to the rapid growth of know- ledge in regard to the sporozoa, there is at present no system of classification generally accepted and no nomenclature universally adhered to, although any species should be referred to by its original designation, whilst symptoms subsequently introduced are dis- carded. The following classification is that often adopted at present:— I. Subclass Telosporidia, containing the following orders: Coccidiida, Hmmosporidia, Gregarinida, A moebosporidia. II. Subclass Neosporidia, with three orders : Myxosporidia, Microsporidia, and Sarcosporidia. Telosporidia.—In all the sporozoa belonging to this subclass, " spore " formation occurs only when the growth and existence of the individual organism is about to terminate. The adult telosporidia are all uninuclear, and the life-cycle of each commences by the invasion of a cell of the host. I. Coccidiida are parasitic in epithelial cells chiefly of the intestine or abdominal viscera, rarely in connective tissues. They are found in arthropods, amphibia, fishes, birds, and mam-PARASITES 340 mals. Rabbits are frequently the host, and man harbours certain species. The life-cycle of coccidiida closely resembles that of hfemosporidia. In fact, with a single exception, there are two alternating generations with two modes of multiplication—(1) a sexual multiplication by " spore" formation (sporo- gony) ; and (2) an asexual by fission (schizo- gony), both occui'ring without a change of host. The life-cycle of Coccidium cuniculi will serve as an example, (i.) Spwogony.—In the faeces of infected rabbits there are oval or spherical encapsuled parasites termed oocysts. Outside the body of the host, the sporont, or uninuclear content of an oocyst, divides into usually four cells (sporoblasts), and each sporoblast acquiring Fig. 3.—Diagram of the developmental cycle of Coccidium Schubergi. (Ltihe, after Scliaudinn.) 1. Sporozoite (or merozoite) penetrating into an epi- thelial cell. 2. Fully-developed schizont. 3. Nuclear proliferation pre- paratory to—4. Formation of merozoites. 5. and 5a. Sexual elements (5, macrogamete ; 5a, microgametocyte). 6. and 6a. Kipe sexual elements (6a, microgametocyte forming microganietes). 7. Fertilisation. 8. Young oocyst. 9. Sporoblast formation in the oocyst. 10. Formation of sporo- zoites within sporoblasts transformed into sporocysts. 11. Sporozoite. a highly resistant membrajae is now termed a " spore" or sporocyst. Each sporocyst then divides into two uninuclear crescentic bodies (sporozoites), and if the sporocysts be ingested by a suitable host the sporozoites penetrate into epithelial cells—for example, those of the bile- ducts, (ii.) Schizogony.—A sporozoite having entered a cell alters its form, enlarges, and is termed a schizont, which by multiple division gives origin to many njerozoites, some of which again enter epithelial cells and develop into schizonts. Other merozoites develop into either female or male elements, termed respectively macrogametes and microgametocytes, each of the latter giving origin to many microgametes. A macrogamete having been fertilised by a microgamete, a young oocyst is produced. The process of " spore " formation results in the in- fection of many epithelial cells ; that known as schizogony is concerned also with the infection of other hosts. Coccidium cuniculi (Rivolta, 1878); Syn.: C. oviforme (Leuckart, 1879).—The oocyst (stage 8, Fig. 3) is oval, and measures 33-40 /x long by 14 to 28 fjL broad. Most of the coccidia seen in the tissues of the host are at this stage of development. The presence of these sporozoa causes the disease designated coccidiosis ; the term psorospermosis is not so precise and should be discontinued. The disease is most frequent in young rabbits—Delepine (1890) found lesions visible to the naked eye in 92 per cent—and is rare in man, the horse, ox, pig, and goat. In all cases, infection doubtless occurs by the in- gestion of food contaminated by the faeces of an affected rabbit. In the rabbit the disease is either acute or chronic, and either terminates fatally or in recovery. The liver is found en- larged, and both on its surface and on section presents numerous greyish- white nodules or cysts—dilated intra- hepatic bile-ducts—varying in size from a hemp-seed to a hazel-nut, and each containing a thick yellowish or creamy debris. On microscopic ex- amination the walls of these dilated bile-ducts are seen to be thickened by much fibrous tissue, and present papuliferous outgrowths towards the lumen, which is more or less filled with oocysts. These must not be mistaken for ova of trematodes, which they re- semble in shape. Many of the lining epithelial cells contain schizonts, others are desquamated. Coccidiosis in the liver of the human subject is a rare disease. Cases have been recorded by Gubler (1858), Silcock (1890), and others. The liver has shown essenti- ally the same changes as are observed in the livers of infected rabbits. Podwyssozki (1889), however, stated that the coccidia also inhabit the liver cells, and are to be found widely scattered through the organ. There is often some diffuse cirrhosis, and the patients have suffered from anaemia, jaundice, and emaciation. In one instance C. cuniculi is claimed to have caused the development in the brain of a nodule of bone as large as a pea (J. J. Thomas, 1899). Lastly, the coccidia associated with the dis- ease termed die rothe Ruhr, a hsemorrhagic diar- rha3a of oxen in Switzerland, are regarded as identical with C. cuniculi (Guillebeau, 1894; etc.). Coccidium hominis (Rivolta, 1878); Syn.: C. perforans (Leuckart, 1879), is possibly identical with C. cuniculi. It is parasitic in tiic intestine chiefly of young rabbits, causing enteritis which is often fatal. The coccidium is found in the intestinal epithelium, sometimes also in thePAEASITES 341 submucous tissue and mesenteric glands. Two cases of coccidiosis of the intestine in the human subject were recorded by Eimer in Berlin (1870). Coccidium higeniinum (Stiles, 1892) measures 8-1.5 fjL long by 6-10 fj. broad, and is found in the substance of the intestinal villi of the cat, dog, and other mammals. The coccidia found in the human subject by Kjelberg (1860), and Eailliet and Lucet (1893), are possibly examples of C. bigeminum. Coccidium avium (Silvestrini and Rivolta, 1873) ; Syn. : C. tenellum (Railliet and Lucet, 1891).—It has been detected in fowls and pheasants, and regarded as the cause of an en- teritis at times fatal; it is also claimed as the cause of diphtheritic inflammation of the mouth, pharynx, and larynx of fowls and other birds (M'Fadyean, 1894; and others). Structures, regarded as coccidia by those who detected them, have been seen in one case in a pleural exudation (Kiinstler and Pitres, 1884), in other instances in the kidney and ureters, and, lastly, in the pearly growths of molluscum contagiosum. II. Hixmowporidia are telosporidia in which schizogony takes place in the blood of verte- brates, and sporogony occurs in arthropods. The vertebrate animal is the intermediate host, the arthropod the definite host. In many re- spects our knowledge of the hsemosporidia is still very incomplete, and largely on this account there is no general agreement as to their classi- fication and nomenclature. In view of these facts, and remembering that a classification which to-day appears correct will probably be antiquated in a few months, it is manifestly inadvisable to give any classification here. One of the most recent will be found in the monograph of Neveu-Lemaire, Les hemato- zoa ir'es du 2Mludisme (1901). The life-cycle has been most fully worked out in certain haemosporidia, for example Plas- modium malaria', which undergo sporogony in mosquitoes. The cycle has been already de- scribed in detail in the article on malaria. All that is therefore necessary is to give a diagram- matic representation of the life-cycle (Fig. 4) in order to illustrate the close analogy between that of the hsemosporidia and that of the coccidiida. Hoemosporidia of Batrachians and Reptiles.— There are a number of different species. Frogs, turtles, and lizards are the chief hosts. At certain stages of development the parasites are situated in the red blood corpuscles; at other stages sickle-shaped and elongated bodies are free in the blood serum. The life-cycle is im- perfectly understood, but Schaudinn (1899) suggests that these haemosporidia require no alteration of host in order to complete their development. There is but little haemolysis caused by most of these haemosporidia. Hcemosporidia of birds have been detected in pigeons, owls, crows, sparrows, starlings, and other birds. The parasites are usually grouped into two or three species:— 1. Halteridium Danilewskii (Labbe); Syn.: Hmmamoeba Danileivskii (Grassi and Feletti); etc., is a common parasite in many parts of the world, but not markedly pathogenetic. The sporozoites penetrate into the red blood cor- puscles and develop into pigmented, round, elongated, or constricted bodies. The asexual cycle in the avian host is completed in seven or eight days. Sexual elements have been found in the blood plasma, but sexual multi- plication occurs within species of Gulex. [Schaudinn's investigations appear to prove that Halteridium is an intracorpuscular phase Fig. 4.—Diagram of the developmental cycle oiHcemoproteus. (Luhe, after Schaudinn.) 1. Sporozoite (or raerozoite) within a red blood corpuscle. 2. Fully-developed sehizont. 3. Nuclear prolifera- tion. 4. Formation of merozoites. 5. and 5a. Se.xual elements (5, macrogamete; 5a, microgametocyte). 6. and 6a. Ripe sexual elements (6a, microgametocyte forming microgametes). 7. Fer- tilisation. 8. Ookinet. 9. Sporoblast formation in the oocyst. 10. Formation of sporozoites. 11. Sporozoite. in the life-cycle of trypanosoma noctux. During its development in the blood of its host the trypanosome goes through alternating diurnal and nocturnal phases : at night the free try- panosome form is found in the blood, chiefly of the internal organs ; during the day it enters the corpuscles, and attains the halteridium phase. These successive phases last for six days and six nights, by which time the trypanosome is fully grown, and begins to multiply by fission.] 2. Hcenoproteus Danilewskii (Kruse); Syn. : Proteosoma Grassii (Labbe); etc., is common in all countries, and more highly pathogenetic than the last-mentioned species, causing avian malaria. The intracorpuscular parasites are often spherical, and usually pigmented with melanin. The asexual formation of merozoites is readily observed in the blood of the host. Schizogony is completed in four or five days, sporogony in the middle intestine of species ofPARASITES 342 Culex (C. pipieris, C. fatigans) is completed in about nine days. The development in the mosquito was first studied in the case of this parasite by Ross (1898), who was likewise the first to demonstrate the fact that birds acquire malaria solely by the bite of infected mosqiiitoes. Infection with this jjarasite causes among other signs, fever—which is not influenced by the administration of quinine—and anjemia, and not unfrequently terminates fatally. HcBmosporidia of the Human Subject. — 1. Malaria. The hsemosporidia are described in the article on malaria. 2. BlacJcivater fever is regarded as due either to a "malarial parasite," or more probably to a distinct, though as yet unknown species of the hiemosporidia (vide " Blackwater "). Sporozoa, probably Hoemosporidia, of other Mammals.—{a) The Ox. Bovine malaria is a disease which occurs in many countries. In Mexico, Carolina, and other adjacent parts, the disease is termed Texas fever (Syn. : Redwater fever). The description of the hsemosporidium, Pyrosoma bigeminum, causing Texas fever is largely based on the researches of Smith and Kilborne (1891 -93). The intracorpuscular parasite at an early stage is a small (2 ••5-4 /x x l"5-2 n) amosboid body of irregular form, and at a somewhat later stage often appears in the form of two pears joined by their stalks, whence the name. The asexual development of the intracorpuscular parasite is not yet fully in- vestigated, but it may be mentioned that Doflein (1901) considers that the pyriform bodies correspond to the crescents of the Plasmodia of human malaria. The disease is transmissible to healthy oxen by the injection of blood from an animal suftering from Texas fever, just as birds may be infected with avian malaria by the injection of the blood of other birds acting as the hosts of HaUeridium or Haimojjroteus, or as malaria of the human subject has been transmitted to healthy persons from those affected with the disease. Bovine malaria is, however, ordinarily transmitted by a species of tick (Boophilns bovis), within which, however, the development of the parasite has still to be investigated. The female tick having been fertilised, and having sucked the blood of the attected ox, and thus been infected with Pyrosoma bigeminum, falls from the animal on to the pastures. A few days later about 2000 eggs are laid, from which in about two to six weeks the daughter ticks escape. It is by them that other oxen are infected. The disease ap- pears in an acute or chronic form. In the former case the chief signs are pyrexia, hjEuio- globinuria, and severe antemia, whilst the chief pathological alterations observed post-mortem are those referable to the anjcmia, and also acute enlargement of the spleen, congestion of the liver, kidneys, stomach, and intestines. Dis- eases closely allied to, if indeed not identical with, Texas fever, and in every instance pro- pagated by ticks, have been recorded by Babes (1888-89, etc.) in Roumania, by Plana (1889-90) in Italy, by Celli and Santori (1897) in the Roman Campagna, by Jackschath (1901) in Pomerania, and by others in Finland, Sardinia, Portugal, South Africa, and East Africa ; whilst in other parts of the world many cases of the condition termed " Htemoglobinuria of the ox," or " Red water," are probably due to hsemo- sporidia. Many experiments have of late been undertaken with the object of rendering oxen artificially immune to Texas fever. To confer such immunity the animal must have been in- oculated with a mild form of the disease, either by the use on two occasions of 2-5 cc. of blood of a convalescent animal, or infection may be carried out by means of Boophilus bovis. The resulting fever is mild, lasts about seven days, and there is, it is claimed, subsequent specific immunity. This assumption should, however, be accepted with some reservation. (b) Other Animals.—The disease known as Cd7-ceag which affects sheep in the delta of the Danube, has been referred to haemosporidia by Babes (1888, etc.) and Starcovici (1893). A similar disease of sheep in the vicinity of Padua, described by Bonome (1894), and near Constan- tinople (Laveran and Nicolle, 1900), is regarded as due to intracorpuscular sporozoa. Haemo- sporidia have also been found in dogs by Leblanc, Marchoud (1900), and others ; in monkeys Koch found hsemosporidia closely similar to those causing human malaria ; in bats Dionisi found two forms which resembled respectively Plas- modium 7nalariw and Plasmodium pi'oecox of man; and, lastly, though the subject requires investigation, there are the hsemosporidia re- corded by Rickmann (1900) and others in South African horse sickness. III. Gregarinida may be dismissed briefly, having never been observed in a vertebrate host, and none being pathogenetic. IV. Amoebosporidia are parasitic in certain small beetles. Neosporidia.—These sporozoa form " spores," whilst the growth and existence of the in- dividual organism continues. The three orders included in this subclass are of importance chiefly from tlie standpoint of comparative pathology and biology. 1. Myxosporidia. are parasitic chiefly in fishes, also in rejjtiles and amphibia. 2. Of Microsporidia, one species causes pebrine disease in silkworms. 3. Sarco- sporidia. These are parasitic cliiefly in the striated muscles of mammals, but also in birds and reptiles. The size of diflfcrent species varies—often a few millimetres in length; they are usually cylindrical, and have a thick encap- sulating membrane, the cavity within being divided up by protoplasmic partitions which separate the "pansporoblasts" one from another. Within the pansporoblasts sickle-shaped sporo-PARASITES 343 zoites are developed. Sarcosporidia are of little or no pathogenicity. Only one, or at most two definite cases have been recorded in man. Sar- cosporidia are, however, common in the lower animals:— Sarcocystis Miescheri; Syn. : Rainey's tubes, measure up to 2-3 mm. long, and are of common occurrence in the muscles of swine. The de- tection of the sickle-shaped sporozoites would serve in a doubtful case to differentiate this sporozoon from an encapsuled trichina. Balbiania gigantea may attain the size of a small hazel-nut. It is found in the sheep and pig, chiefly in the oesophageal wall, tongue, and larynx. Doubtful Sporozoa. — Coccidioides immitis is probably one of the sporozoa, but is not a coc- cidium. It is found in the subcutaneous tissue of man, causing lesions which resemble those of lupus or leprosy. Cases have been recorded by Wernicke (1892), Rixford and Gilchrist (1897), and A. Posadas (1898). CiLiATA; Syn. : Infusoria, are characterised by the whole ectoplasm being covered with cilia. Three species have been found in the human intestine : (1) Nyctotherus faba (Schaudinn, 1899) ; found in one patient and probably sapro- phytic. (2) Balantidium minuttim (Schaudinn, 1899); found twice in Berlin, probably sapro- phytic. (3) i?a^am<?;c?mm co^i (Malrasten, 1857) is egg-shaped, 40-110 /a long, and of somewhat complex structure. It is commonly regarded as a saprophyte, whether the intestine be healthy or the seat of inflammation. Two cases have, however, recently been recorded (Strong and Musgrave, 1901 ; Solowjew, 1901) in which the parasite apparently caused acute and fatal ulcer- ative enteritis in the large intestine. In Solow- jew's case Balantidium coli was found in all the coats of the intestine, which presented marked signs of a vital reaction to the parasite. In the case recorded by Strong and Mus- grave, the parasite was found between the muscular layers, and there were numerous eosinophile leucocytes especi- ally in the submucosa. Doubtful Protozoa.—As is well known, there is an ex- tensive literature on certain structures which are often regarded as pathogenetic i'lG. 5.—Balantiilium t?i i ,> coli. (After Leuckart.) protozoa. Hixauiples are fur- nished by the " protozoa " of syphilis, measles, variola, and other infective diseases, by the " haemamcebse" of leucocy- thsemia and the " protozoa" of malignant tumours. In almost every instance proof is still lacking that these structures are really protozoa. They are all probably artefacts, cell inclusions or accidental structures of no etio- logical significance ; and in regai-d to the malig- nant tumours, it is instructive to remember that zoologists are unable to accept any one of the so-called carcinoma parasites as a protozoon. [During recent years great advances have been made in our knowledge concerning the patho- genicity of the protozoa, and we have now to recognise in many of these organisms infective agents second in importance only to the bacteria. They are higher life-forms than the bacteria, and while it is agreed that there is no hard and fast line between the two, the following character- istics serve generally to distinguish the protozoa. They are unicellular organisms, endowed usually with organs for locomotion as well as for the capture, devouring, and digestion of food. Their bodies have either no cuticle, or if there be one it is rarely of cellulose; they invariably contain nuclear material. The most important distinc- tion, however, concerns their reproduction and life-history. In many, if not all cases, the pro- tozoal life-cycle consists of alternating sexual and asexual phases. It is this feature which renders their study so difficult, because the different phases of the same organism are often so dis- similar as for long to escape identification. Re- production in protozoa takes place by (a) siinj^le fission, which may result in the production of two symmetrical organisms (binary fission) or may be asymmetrical (budding or gemmation); the third form of reproduction is (6) multiple fission, or sporulation, in which the nucleus breaks up simultaneously, or divides successively, into a number of individuals. This asexual reproduction may continue for many genera- tions, but cannot go on indefinitely. Like the Metazoa, the protozoa ultimately become senes- cent and die, unless rejuvenation takes place by sexual conjugation. Such weakening with age has been experimentally demonstrated in the paramcecium, by isolating the individuals as they are reproduced by fission, and thus pre- venting sexual conjugation from taking place. After a number of generations unmistakable signs of old age appear, and the race dies out. Sexual reproduction may occur at different parts of the life-cycle in different forms ; it consists in the fusion of the nuclei of two individuals— gametes, which may be either young individuals or adults, and may be similar or dissimilar. In the case of union of dissimilar individuals (aniso- gamy), one is usually smaller and more motile than the other, while the second is full of reserve material; the former is regarded as the male, the latter as the female, element. Not only may the gametes differ from one another, but the generation {gametocytes) which produces the gametes may be differentiated from the ordinary members of the species. Thus a species may be highly polymorphic with a re- current cycle of different forms: ordinary asexual or vegetative cycle, and gametocytes, gametes, male and female, of the sexual cycle. In so far as most of the pathogenic protozoaPARASITES 344 are concerned, only portions of their life-histories are known. In malaria alone has the whole life- cycle of the parasite been worked out. In addition to the organisms mentioned above, the following may be noted :—Amoeba coli and Amoeba dysenterke. That these are not identi- cal has been settled by Schaudinn, who has shown that their development is dissimilar. He has been able to infect cats by feeding with material containing the dried spores of A. dysen- terice. Ti-ypanosomes {see " Sleeping Sickness," " Trypanosomiasis "). In addition to the forms mentioned (vide supra) many others occur in animals, and one species at \e&^t—Trypanosoma gambiense—is pathogenic to man, being the cause of trypanosome fever and sleeping sickness. With the exception of that causing dourine, all species of trypanosome yet investigated re- quire for their development an invertebrate as well as a vertebrate host. The individuals of a species are either undifferentiated, or male and female, and while all may multiply by fission, this is usually in abeyance in the sexual forms. Conjugation takes place only in the inverte- brate host. The genus Spirochceta is closely allied to the trypanosomes, and one of them (spirochoete pallida, spironema pallidum) is now recognised as the cause of syphilis {see "Syphilis")—a dis- covery we owe to the genius of Schaudinn. Spirochsetes have often been confused with bacteria of the genus Spirillum, but they pre- sent certain differences—an undulatory mem- brane, no flagellse, no firm cell membrane. Parasitic spirochfetes are found in a number of the lower animals ; of those pathogenic to man besides S. pallida, S. Obermeieri (the organism of relapsing fever), and S. pertenuis (Castellani), the parasite of yaws may be mentioned. S. refringens is a common saprophytic type. Leishman-Donovan Bodies." — These organ- isms, the causal agents of tropical splenomegaly, or Kala-Azar, a very fatal disease of India—also met with in China and tropical Africa—charac- terised by prolonged fever, hepatic and splenic enlargement, and very marked leucopenia, have given rise to much controversy. They are intracellular organisms, abundantly present in the spleen, liver, and marrow, but very scanty in the circulating blood. Free forms are rare. They are minute (2-3 ^ in diameter), rovmd, oval, or pear-shaped structures, with an envelope, vacuolated protoplasm, and two nuclei, one of which is large and round, the other small and rod-like. They can be cultivated outside the body, when they develop into flagellate organ- isms like the herjietomonas group. Parasites resembling the Leishman-Donovan body are present in the lesion of Oriental sore. Piroplasma.—This organism belongs to the htemosporidia group of the sporozoa, and gives rise to a group of diseases known as the piro- plasmoses. Besides causing the various forms of hsemoglobinuria in cattle—" red water," etc. —one species {P. hominis) is pathogenic for man, being the cause of " spotted fever," or "tick fever" of the rocky mountains. It occurs typically as a small, pear-shaped, intracorpuscular organism in the red cells of the blood. The intervertebrate host of the piroplasma is a tick. Cytoryctes va7-iolce. —Councilman's studies (1903-4) point with some probability to the organism named cytoryctes variolm being the cause of both smallpox and vaccinia. The organisms occur in the form of rounded homo- geneous structures about 1 ;u, in diameter in the epithelial cells of the early stages of the skin lesion, and in the course of their further develop- ment become filled with smaller spore-like bodies enclosed in a reticulum, which finally breaks up. It is believed that the spores are the infective agents of variola and vaccinia, but the nature of the further life-cycle of the parasite is purely conjectural. A protozoon which may prove to be the cause of the disease has been detected by Mallory in the cutaneous lesions of scarlet fever. Yellow Fever.—Since the researches of Reid, Carrol and others have definitely proved that the infection of yellow fever is conveyed only through the agency of a particular species of mosquito {stegomyia fasciata), it is most likely that the disease is of animal, not of bacterial, origin. The infective agent, however, has not yet been discovered.] Helminths—The Parasitic Worms (A) Plathelminths (Gr. TrXarv?, flat, wide), platodes or flat worms, have a flattened body. Their respiration is cutaneous, and there are usually organs of attachment, suckers or hooks. The chief mode of multiplication is a sexual one, and each animal is usually hermaphrodite. In some there is also an asexual multiplication by fission or budding. Some have an alimentary canal without an anus, others have no such canal. All the parasitic species are included in the two orders: Trematodes and Cestodes. They are either entozoa or ectozoa; but in the case of man, as well as of all the higher animals, they are all entozoa. I. Treviatodes, or flukes, are generally small plathelminths, of a leaf-shaped form, and are unsegmented. The alimentary canal has one opening, the mouth, at the anterior end of the body ; the genital apertiires and the suckers are situated on the ventral aspect of the body. The body is enclosed in a cuticular membrane which, in some species, bears numerous small spines, a parenchyma lies between this membrane and the wall of the intestine and the other organs; there are muscular fibres in various parts, and these constitute also the chief elements of the suckers. In the entoparasitic trematodes there are never more than one or two suckers ; the one is always at the ventral345 PARASITES aspect of the somewhat pointed anterior extrem- ity of the body, and, as it surrounds the mouth, it is termed the oral sucker. If, as is usually the case, there be a second sucker, it is situated on the ventral surface at a variable distance behind the former. The mouth is continued into a pharynx, an oesophagus, and an intestine which bifurcates into two cseca, or limbs, which pass backwards to near the posterior end of the body and end blindly. Most of the reproductive organs are situated between the two limbs of the intestine, and nearly all the trematodes are hermaphrodite. The eggs are formed in the uterus, and remain there for a considerable period of time, during which they ripen. When ripe they are of a brownish or yellow colour, and have, as a rule, an operculum. The eggs are eventually passed from the host by way of the intestine or urinary passages. The embryo or Miracidium then escapes from the egg, and its subsequent development varies in different species. In some—for instance, Fasciola hepa- tica—-there are between the Miracidium and the adult worm two generations in a special inter- mediate host, and there is thus an alternation both of generations and of hosts. With the exception of 3fonostoma lentis, which has only one oral sucker, and was found once within the lens of a woman, all the trematodes of man belong to one or other of the three families: Fasciolidte, Amphistomidte, Schisto- somidse. Fasciolidce.—There are two suckers, the posterior one being situated in the median line of the ventral surface, but not at the posterior extremity of the body. The parasites found in the human subject are all included in the four genera: Fasciola, Dicrocoelium, Opisthorchis, Mesogonimus. Fasciola hepatica (Linne, 1758); Syn.: Dis- tonium hepaticum (Retzius, 1786).—The body Fig. 6.—Eg ;s of Fasciola hepatica. and Peiper.) (After Mosler is 20-32 mm. long, 8-13 mm. broad, flattened, oval or leaf-shaped, more pointed posteriorly than anteriorly, and of a pale brownish-yellow colour. The oral sucker is small and circular, and 3 mm. behind it is the large ventral sucker. The two intestinal limbs give off numerous branches, and extend to the posterior end of the body. The genital pore is situated between the two suckers, but nearer the ventral one. The eggs are 130-145 /x long, 70-90 /x broad, of a brown colour, and have an operculum at the anterior pole. These parasites inhabit the bile- ducts of herbivora and of man, producing large numbers of eggs which pass into the intestinal canal of the host. If an egg, after being- expelled from the host, lies in water, the Miracidmm develops, raises the opercidum, escapes and swims about by means of its cilia until it meets its intermediate host, which is a small mollusc, Limnma truncatulata. It be- comes lodged in the pulmonary cavity of this mollusc, and is then transformed into a Hporo- cyst. From germinative cells within the body cavity of the Sporocyst, Redice having a cylin- drical form and a digestive canal are then developed. The Redite next wander out of the sac of the Sporocyst and migrate to some other organ of the host. Each Redia further produces numerous Cercarice. The anterior portion of the body of a Cercaria resembles the adult trematode, whilst a long tail constitutes the posterior part of the body. The Cercarise eventually escape both from the Redia and from the intermediate host, and swim about until they become encysted on such objects as the leaves of aquatic plants or blades of grass. The definite host is infected by ingestion of encysted Cercarige on such plants. The definite host is visually the sheep or ox, less frequently the goat, horse, or other herbivora. In the former animals the parasite is common in Europe, Australia, and South America. The disease " Liver rot," due to the presence of these flukes in the bile-ducts, is most common in marshy or ill-drained districts. The livers of affected sheep are reduced in size, markedly cirrhotic, the bile-ducts are much dilatec^, and contain both the parasites and their eggs in large numbers. In man this trematode is a verj' rare parasite, for it is recorded in only twenty-three cases. As a rule, there have been in each patient only one or two examples of the parasite, and their presence has often resulted in little, if any, disturbance of the general health. In some of the cases, however, there were chronic symptoms, such as severe jaundice, hepatic en- largement, pain and tenderness, and hsema- temesis. In some instances the liver has con- tained a few of the parasites and been otherwise quite normal; in others there have been cir- rhosis, dilatation of the bile-ducts, obstruction of the hepatic duct, and secondary conditions, such as gastritis and splenic enlargement. Fig. 7.—Fasciola hepatica, nat. size. (After Mosler and Peiper.)PARASITES 346 Fasciola hepatica, var. angusta (Railliet, 1895). — One example, 25 mm. long, expec- torated by a patient. Railliet regards it as a variety of F. hejxitica, but Blanchard con- cludes that it is identical with F. gigantea, which was discovered by Cobbold (1854) in the liver of a giraffe. Dicrocoelium lanceolatmn (Rudolphi, 1803); Syn. : Distomum lanceolatmn (Rudolphi, 1803). —The body is lancet-shaped, 8-10 mm. long and l*5-2'5 mm. broad. The ventral sucker is situated behind the anterior at a distance equal to one-fifth of the length of the worm. The genital pore is situated in the median line between the suckers. The eggs are dark brown, 4045 IK long, 22-30 /a broad, and have an operculum. The developmental cycle is im- perfectly known. According to some the larval stage is passed in Planorhis marginatus. The adult trematode is a fairly common parasite in the bile-ducts of the sheep and ox, and is usually associated with Fasciola hepatica. It has also been found in some other animals, and there are seven recorded cases in which it has been found in the bile-ducts of man in Egypt, Germany, Italy, etc. Distomum oculi huniani (Amnion, 1833); Syn. : D. ophthalmohium (Diesing, 1850).— Four examples were found beneath the capsule of the lens in a child in Dresden, and are regarded as immature forms of some other species. Opjisthorchis felineus (Rivolta, 1885); Syn. : Distomum felineum (Rivolta, 1885); D. conus (Gurlt, 1831); D. sihiriciim (Winogradoff, 1892).—It is 8-18 mm. long, 1 •5-2-5 mm. broad, flattened, of a pinkish colour, and very trans- parent. The two CcBca or limbs of the intestine are often filled with brown contents; the genital pore is just in front of the ventral sucker, the eggs are oval, 26-30 /x in their longest diameter, and have an operculum. Little is yet known in regard to the development of this species, but the definite host is supposed to be infected by ingestion of infected fish. Although the parasite has been found in various animals, it is most frequent in the cat, and inhabits the bile-ducts, causing their dilatation and more or less general cirrhosis of the liver. It is also parasitic in man ; in Tomsk it has been found in nine cases, Winogradofi' (1892) finding it eight times in a total of 124 autopsies. In none of the cases had the parasite caused the death of the patient, but in each instance had caused dilatation of the bile-ducts, thickening of their walls, cirrhosis and atrophy of the liver tissue, and in some cases there was jaundice and ascites. In many parts of the world this trematode is common in the cat. In Konigsberg Braini found that 80 per cent were infected, and he therefore suggested that further instances of its occurrence in man would probably be recorded. The only case observed in Europe since then is that recorded by Askanazy (1900) in East Prussia, wbilst in one other case the same writer found the eggs of this parasite. There is thus a total of eleven cases, the patients in each instance having been of the male sex. Ojnsthorchis conjunctus (Cobbold, 1859); Syn.: Distomum conjunctum (Cobbold, 1859) is a small lancet-shaped trematode, about 10 mm. long and 2"5 mm. broad; its whole surface is covered with small spines. The genital pore is just anterior to the ventral sucker. The eggs are 34 fx. long, 20 //, broad, and have an operculum. The developmental cycle is yet unknown. This species was ob- tained by Cobbold from an American fox, by T. R. Lewis (1872) from pariah dogs in India, and by M'Connell (1875-78) from two Moham- medans in Calcutta. It was found in the dilated and inflamed bile-ducts. Opisthorchis sinensis (Cobbold, 1875); Syn.: Distomum sinense (Cobbold, 1875); Distomum spiathulatum (Leuckart, 1876); etc. — It is lanceolate, 10-18 mm. long, 2-3 mm. broad, of a reddish colour and very transparent. The ventral sucker is situated behind the oral sucker, at a distance equal to one-quarter of the length of the body. The genital pore is just in front of the ventral sucker. The dark brown eggs measure 25-30 fx. long, 15-17 jx broad, and have an operculum. The inter- mediate host is not yet known. This parasite was found by M'Connell in Calcutta in 1874, large numbers being seen blocking the bile- ducts of a Chinese patient. It has also been found in Mauritius, Corea, and more especially in Tonquin and Japan. Bajlz (1883) first drew attention to its frequency in Japan, in some districts of which the disease due to the parasite is endemic, being characterised by dilatation of the bile-ducts and hepatic cirrhosis, and not infrequently causing the death of the patient. Opisthorchis Buski (Lankester, 1857); Syn.: Distomum Buski (Lankester, 1857); Distomum crassum (Busk, 1859).—It is oval, 4-8 cm. long and 1-4-2 cm. broad. The ventral sucker is about 3 mm. behind the oral sucker, and the genital pore is between them. The eggs are 125 /A long and 75 fi broad, with an operculum. The mode of development is unascertained. The parasite has been found in about half a dozen cases in the faeces, small intestine, gall- bladder, and bile-ducts of native Chinese or of those who have dwelt in China. 02nsthorchis Rathouisi (Poirier, 1887); Syn.: Distomum Rathouisi (Poirier, 1887). — This species, which is regarded as probably identical with that last mentioned, was first found by Rathouis in the fteces of a Chinese subject, and was recorded by Poirier in 1887. Mesogonimus heterojihyes (v. Siebold, 1852); Syn.: Distomum heterophyes (v. Siebold, 1852) is oval, 1-1-5 mm. in length, 0-7 mm. in breadth,PARASITES 347 and reddish in colour. The genital orifices open at the bottom of a large genital sinus, which is situated behind and to the left of the ventral sucker. The eggs are reddish-brown, 26 jx long and 15 /X broad. The mode of development is not known. The parasite has been found in a very few cases inhabiting the small intestine of persons in Egypt (Bilharz, 1851 ; Blanchard, 1891 ; Looss, 1894). Mesogoni7nus Westermarmi (Kerbert, 1878); Syn.: Distomum Westermanni (Kerbert, 1878); I). Ringeri (Cobbold, 1880); I), pulmonale (Balz, 1883).—It is egg-shaped, 8-10 mm. long, 4-6 mm. broad, and of a reddish-brown colour. The venti'al sucker is about midway between the anterior and posterior extremities of the body, and behind it is the genital pore. The yellowish eggs are 80-100 /x, long and 50 /x broad. Little is known of the development of this parasite, which is found in Japan and other eastern parts of Asia, where it is somewhat common. It is found in cavities within the lungs. These cavities may be as large as a walnut or a hen's egg, contain blood-tinged mucus, abundant eggs, and sometimes one or more adult worms, and usually communicate with a bronchus. The eggs have also been found in subperitoneal nodules and within inflammatory nodules in the brain. The same species is parasitic in the cat, dog, and other animals in different parts of the world. Amphistomidce. — The oral sucker is small, whilst the ventral sucker is large, and situated at or near to the posterior end of the body. Amphistomum hominis (Lewis and M'Connell, 1876).—It is 5-8 mm. in length, 3-4 mm. in its greatest transverse diameter, and has a rela- tively very large ventral sucker, the transverse diameter of which is equal to half the total length of the worm. The eggs were 150 /x long, 72 /X broad, and had an opei'culum. This species, which has been observed on only two occasions, was found in large numbers adhering to the mucous membrane of the cfecum and colon of natives of India. Other species of this family are parasitic in the stomach and intestine of the lower animals. Gastrodiscus Sonsinoi, for instance, is found in horses and mules in Egypt, Senegal, and Gaude- loupe; Amphistomum Hatvkesii is a common and sometimes fatal parasite of Indian elephants; others are found in the ox, sheep, and goat. Schistoso7iiidce^ are trematodes in which the sexes are separate. Schistosomum hcematobiwm (Bilharz, 1852); Syn.: Distomum haematobium (Bilharz, 1852); Bilharzia hcematobia (Cobbold, 1860); etc.—In general form this worm resembles a nematode. The male is 5-16 mm. long, of a whitish colour; the oral sucker is apical, and close behind it is the posterior or ventral sucker. Behind this latter sucker the body is expanded laterally. and the two marginal expansions thus formed are folded towards the ventral surface, and overlapping each other form the " gynsecophoric canal" in which the female is frequently con- tained. The genital orifice is at the anterior Fig. 8.—Surface view of vesical mucous membrane. Capillaries filled with blood corpuscles. Eggs of Sch. hcematobiuin outside the capillaries. (After Lortet and Vialleton.) end of this canal just behind the ventral sucker. The female is almost cylindrical, 15-20 mm. long, thinner than the male, and with two suckers similarly situated to those of the male. The uterus opens just posterior to the ventral sucker. The eggs (Fig. 8) are oval, 130-200 fj, long and 50-60 fj. or more broad, each having a spinous projection at one pole, rarely at the lateral margin, but hav- ing no operculum. The worm inhabits the smaller tributaries of the portal vein, is parasitic only in man and monkeys, and is mainly found in Africa and in the male sex. The disease it excites is endemic in Egypt, and especially so among the fellahs. According to Leuckart, Grie singer found the parasite 117 times in 363 autopsies, and Sonsino 13 times in 31 autopsies. Kaufmann (quoted by Lortet and Vialleton) has observed it in 40-50 per cent of autopsies on men, and in 13 per cent of those on women. Buffer (1901) finds it in quite 50 per cent of all necropsies on natives in Egypt. In the eastern district of Cape Colony, Natal, and Fig. 9.—Schistosomum hcema- tobiuin : S, posterior ventral sucker of male. (After Blanchard.)348 PARASITES the Transvaal Colony, the parasite is exceedingly common. Guillemard (1897), for instance, states that in Pietermaritzburg the majority of the male youths were apparently infected, and that in the Transvaal a large proportion of the male population suffer from the parasite. It is also found, though less frequently, along the whole of the east coast of Africa, on the borders of Lake Nyassa and of the Zambesi, in Tunis, the Gold Coast, Madagascar, Mauritius, and Arabia; and, as might be expected, cases are at times imported into other countries. When the eggs are passed with the urine or fceces, they each contain a ciliated embryo or Miracidium. If the eggs are allowed to remain in the urine or get into water containing decomposing animal matter, the ovid embryo within each soon dies; but if the eggs are carried into pure water the embryos are soon hatched out, and are then of somewhat elongated form and actively motile. The subsequent stages of its life history are still uncertain, but as ingestion of free embryos by monkeys and other animals has not resulted in their being infected, it is probable that the life-cycle is similar to that of F. hepatica, and that an encysted parasite is essential for infection of man. The actual mode of infection is likewise unknown, and although the frequency of the disease in Africa in those who are in the habit of bathing in fresh water points to the possi- bility of infection being brought about by penetration of the parasites along the urethra or rectum, it is more probable that persons are infected by ingestion of the parasites. Further anatomical details of the worms and a number of experimental inoculations are recorded in the monograph of Lortet and Vialleton, £tiide sur le Bilh. haimat. et la Bilharziose (1894). The adult parasites live in large numbers within the tributaries of the portal vein. The females, which are in excess of the males, pro- duce an abundance of eggs which block the portal capillaries and thus cause venous con- gestion and haemorrhage. There is also a more or less diffuse infiltration of eggs throughout the mucous and submucous coats of the bladder, rectum, or other pelvic viscus, with consequent inflammatory infiltration also. The changes are most pronounced in the bladder. The mucous membrane is covered with blood-tinged mucus, presents patches of hyperseraia and ecchymoses, and there is thickening pai'tly of an inflammatory nature of the bladder wall. In cases of old-standing, papilliferous outgrowths or projections from the vesical mucous membrane are seen, and these projections, as well as the mucous membrane generally, are not infre- quently infiltrated with urinary salts, chiefly urates and oxalates. Ulceration of the mucous membrane is not seen in all cases. Microscopi- cally the eggs are found chiefly in the more superficial strata of the bladder wall, and around them is more or less extensive leucocytic infiltration. The earliest symptoms associated with these vesical lesions are pain and slight intermittent htematuria, which in course of time becomes more frequent and more constant. The frequency of micturition is increased, and the urine contains red blood corpuscles, pus cells, blood-clots, urinary crystals of various kinds, with much mucus, large numbers of eggs, epithelial cells, and debris. The disease is rarely confined to the bladder. The seminal vesicles and rectum are often affected, the ureters and kidneys less frequently so. In each instance the pathological conditions are essentially the same as those seen in the bladder. Involvement of the seminal vesicles is indicated by perineal pain and tenderness; infection of the rectum is either primary or secondary to infection of the bladder, and is characterised by symptoms similar to those of dysentery and by the presence of the eggs in tiie fseces; the spread of the disease to the ureters leads to pyelitis, hydronephrosis, pyelo- nephritis, and the formation of renal calculi. The eggs are seldom seen in the prostate, mesenteric glands, lungs, or liver, and have never been detected in the spleen, pancreas, or stomach. The prognosis depends largely on the degree of infection; the most severe forms of the disease are observed in Egypt, and the patients often become markedly antemic and wasted, and succumb to the disease. In many cases, how- ever, in which there is not repeated reinfection, the inflammatory processes gradually subside and the patients regain their normal health. The only curative measures of avail are the re- moval, if possible, of the patient from the district in which the disease prevails, and such treat- ment as is directed to the relief of symptoms and the maintenance of the patient's strength. Schistosomuvi bovis [Sch. crussum), which is parasitic in the portal tributaries of cattle and sheep in Egypt, Italy, Sicily, and possibly in India, is a different species from Sch. h(xma- tobium of man. Cestodbs Tapeworms.—These are flat worms without mouth or alimentary canal. Each tapeworm of man consists of a head or scolex, a neck, and a chain of proglottides or segments which, whilst remaining attached to one another, constitute a " strobilus." The whole tapeworm is therefore often regarded, not as a single animal, but as a polymorphic colony. The outer surface of a cestode consists of a cuticular membrane, within which is a parenchyma diff'erentiated into a peripheral layer and a central mass, and in the parenchyma there are calcareous corpuscles and fusiform muscle fibres. For the adhesion of the worm to the host the muscle fibres in thePARASITES 349 head are specially developed, so as to form suckers or suctorial grooves, and in some species to form also an apical rostellum which has one or more circlets of hooks on its outer surface. The youngest proglottides—those nearest the head—present no reproductive organs, but each of the older proglottides has both male and female sexual organs, the orifices of which open usually in close contiguity to one another at the bottom of a genital sinus, the orifice of which is termed the genital pore. In each proglottis there are nvimerous testes, whilst of the female reproductive organs that most readily recognised is the uterus, which in many of the tapeworms consists of a median canal with several lateral branches.^ Development of the Cestodes.—All the adult cestodes inhabit the intestinal canal of the definitive host and produce numerous eggs. Within each egg there develops a globular six- hooked embryo or oncosphere which, in the case of the Bothriocephalidae, is covered with cilia. The eggs are evacuated with the faeces of the host, but further development occurs only after the embryo within its shell gains entrance into a suitable intermediate host. When carried into the stomach of this host the shell is digested, and the embryo being liberated penetrates the stomach wall, and either settles down in the body cavity of the host, or, as is more frequently the case, is carried by the venous or lymphatic channels to other parts of the body In either case the eiubryo having reached its ultimate destination becomes trans- formed into a larva. In the Bothriocephalidse the embryo develops directly into a larva which closely resembles the scolex of the adult worm. In all the other tapeworms of man the embryo is first transformed into a vesicle (less often into a solid mass), and within this one or more scolices or heads are, as it were, budded off. Some weeks or months are, as a rule, required for the complete development of the larva. If one scolex is formed from the wall of such a vesicle the whole larva is termed a Cysticercus, if more than one scolex is formed directly within a vesicle the larva is known as a Ccenurus, whereas if the scolices be formed from special sacs within the vesicle the larva is designated an Echinococcus. If the scolex develops not within a true vesicle, but in a solid larva, this larva is known as a Cysticercoid. Cysticercoids are found solely in cold-blooded animals, espe- cially in insects and molluscs. The scolex of each larva is a representation in miniature of the head of the adult tapeworm, and is usually retracted within the vesicle (Fig. 18), but if the scolex be protruded the vesicle appears as an appendage or " caudal bladder." The cystic 1 The form of the uterus is readily seen if one or more proglottides are placed for a few minutes in a watch- glass containing glycerine, and then subjected to slight pressure between a slide and large cover-glass. Syn.: T. larvse are therefore known as bladder worms. The size of the vesicle varies greatly in different species. Cysticercus tenuicollis of ruminants (the cystic larva of Taenia marginata of the dog) is often as large as a hen's egg or an orange, Coenurus cerebralis of sheep (the larva of Tcenia ccenurus of the dog) may be as large as a hen's egg, but Cysticercus cellulosce of man is seldom an inch in its greatest diameter. If a larva be ingested by a suitable host the caudal vesicle is digested, the scolex is set free, and after attaching itself by its suckers and hooks to the intestinal mucous membrane it buds off successive proglottides from its distal extremity. Tapeworms are therefore acquired solely by ingestion of the associated larvae. Cestodes both in the adult and larval stages are harboured by man. There are a number of different adult tapeworms for consideration, but only two larval species—Cysticercus cellulosce and Echinococcus polymorphus. Tcenia scujinata (Goze, 1782 7nediocanellata (Kiichenmeister, 1855); r. iWnws (Brera, 1802); etc.—This is the largest taenia found in man, and may attain a length of 12 to 24 feet or more. The head is somewhat cubical, measures l"5-2 mm. in trans- verse diameter, has neither ros- tellum nor hooks, but has four hemispherical suckers, each of which is surrounded by blackish pigment. The thickness of the neck is less than that of the head. There are about 1000- 1300 proglottides, larger than those of T. solium. Sexual maturity is attained at about the 500th segment. The mature separated segments are 16-20 ^ga^^ata i*u mm. long, 4-8 mm. broad. The contracted con- ditioii { X 8^ uterus has on each side about (After Leuckart.) 20-35 lateral branches, each of which again branches dichotomously. The pro- minent genital papilla is situated laterally just behind the centre of each proglottis, alternating from right to left in successive proglottides, but often very ir- regularly ar- ranged. The eggs, which closely resemble those of T. sol- mm, are almost spherical, about 25-30 /X in diameter; the shell is thick, of a brownish-yellow colour, has radiate markings, and each egg contains a six-hooked embryo or oncosphere. Malformations are not uncommon in this species; the most frequent is the pris- matic or triangular strobilus, a transverse section of which resembles the letter Y. Fig. 11.—Eggs of T. saginata. Mosler and Peiper.) (AfterPARASITES 350 Fig. 12. — Ripe seg- nientof T.saginata (x2). (After Leuc- kait.) Man is the sole host of the adult worm, which inhabits the intestinal canal. The head is firmly attached to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the small intestine, whilst the chain of proglottides lies in the lumen of the canal, the riper segments being nearest to the rectum. Persons as a rule do not harbour more than one example of this tapeworm, which may be found in persons of all ages. In all parts of the world it is a com- mon parasite, and is certainly the most frequent tapeworm in Great Britain as well as in the whole of Western Europe. Its increasing frequency is often attributed to the fact that raw beef juice constitutes at present so frequent an article of diet in different diseases both of adults and children. The worm is exceedingly common in Eastern Europe, in Abyssinia, where almost every native is the host of this parasite, and in some of the States of South and Central America. The frequency is very largely dependent on the cleanliness and habits of the people. The tapeworm is developed from C^sticercus tcenice saginatw—Cysticercus hovis—which is parasitic almost solely in the muscles of the ox, very exceptionally in those of one or two other animal species, but practically never in those of man. It is solely by ingestion of the infected muscles of the ox, measly beef, that man ac- quires the tapeworm, and it has been shown that it is not until about sixty days after ingestion of the cysti- cercus that mature proglottides com- mence to be discharg- ed from the intestine. About six to ten pro- glottides are shed, singly or attached to one another, each day, and they very frequently migrate spontaneously through the anus. Each contains hundreds of eggs, and it is by water containing these that oxen are infected. After the shell has been digested in the stomach the embryo escapes, passes to the muscles, and in three to six months develops into a fully-formed cysticercus with one un- armed scolex which represents in miniature the head of the adult worm. The fully-developed Cysticercus hovis is a small ovoid bladder not more than 10-12 mm. long, and often no larger Fig. 13.—Head of T. solium (xib). (After Leuckart.) Fig. 14.—Eggs of T. solium. (After Mosler and Peiper.) than a pin's head. Each is contained within a thin adventitious connective - tissue capsule formed from the tissues of the host. On in- cising the cysti- cercus the fluid contained within escapes, and one can recognise the small and usu- ally invaginated scolex attached to the middle of the long equator of the cyst. The small size of these cysticerci often renders their detection a matter of difficulty. Their favourite seats are the muscles of mastication and the heart, but they may be found in any muscle. They are exceedingly rare in any of the viscera but the heart. Some of the cysti- cerci often die spontaneously, and are then seen as small, hard, calcareous nodules. The cystic parasites are killed at a temperature of 47°-48° C, but the temperature at the central portions of underdone roasts or steaks has never reached this point, and hence to eat beef only when it is thoroughly cooked is the surest means of prophylaxis. T(enia solium (Rudolphi, 1810).—This tapeworm seldom exceeds 10 or 12 feet in length. The head is in general spherical, usually somewhat less than 1 mm. in diameter, and has anteriorly a rostellum with two circlets of hooks. The hooks number about twenty-six to twenty- eight in all, and those of the inner, or anterior, circlet are the larger (Fig. 17). The head pos- sesses four muscular suckers. The neck is thinner than the head, and gradually passes into the youngest of the proglottides. The total number of segments is about eight or nine hundred, though sexual maturity is at- tained about the 450th. The ripe segments at the end of the chain, which are seldom liber- ated singly, are 10 to 12 mm. in length, 5 to 6 mm. broad. On each side of the uterus are seven to eight lateral offshoots which do not branch so much as in the case of T. saginata. The genital papillfe alternate from right to left with greater regularity than in T. saginata, and the eggs resemble those of that tapeworm. Tcenia solium is found only in man. Its head Fig. 15.—Half-ripe and ripe segments of T. solium (uat. size). (After Leuckart.) i Fig Ifi.—Two pro- glottides of T. sol- ium with uterus (X 2). (After Leuckart.)351 PARASITES is tenaciously fixed to the mucous membrane of the small intestine, often of the duodenum, and there is seldom more than one example of the worm in any host. Persons of all ages may be the host of the tapeworm, which occurs in every Fig. 17.—Larger (anterior) and smaller (posterior) hooks of T. solium (x280). (After Leuckart.) country in the world. Although a common parasite, it is nowhere so frequent as T. saginata, and all records show that of late years it is becoming less and less frequent, in consequence, doubtless, of more stringent meat inspection in abattoirs. The cystic larva, Gysticercus cellulosce, is found chiefly in the pig—more rarely in other animals; for example, the dog and cat—or in man, inhabiting the intermuscular connective tissue, the brain, eyeball, or other structures. Man acqviires the tapeworm solely by ingestion of measly pork, as the infected flesh of the pig is termed. There are no reliable statistics showing the frequency of measly pork in this country; it is probably, however, not very uncommon, and especially so in Ireland. The figures recorded by Braun show that in Prussia between 1878 and 1885 the number of in- fected pigs varied from 1 in 270 to 1 in 409. The larva, which is developed from an embryo of the tapeworm, is fully formed ten to twelve weeks after ingestion of the egg. hi the pig the cysticercus is a small elliptical bladder, 6 to 20 mm. in length, and 5 to 10 mm. in breadth. The scolex is situated at the middle of the long equator. The vitality of the larva is usually well maintained for some months at least, but cysticerci are not infrequently discovered dead and calcified. They are most numerous in the muscles, especially in the tongue and muscles of neck and shoulders, but are not frequent in the fat or in any of the internal organs except the heart. The cysticerci are, as a rule, killed at a temperature of 47° to 49° C, but whereas on thorough boiling the temperature at the central portions of the meat will exceed this by 10° to 15° C, and the cysticerci consequently FiG. 18.—Median section through a cysti- cercus with fully - formed scolex. (Braun, after Leuckart.) be killed, the temperature at the similar portion of a moderately well-roasted joint has been found not to exceed 46° to 48° C, and the roast would therefore still be dangerous. Cysticercus cellulosce in the Human Subject.— Man acquires the cysticercus in consequence of the eggs of T. solium gaining entrance into the stomach. The infection may be brought about in more than one way. The eggs may be in- gested with uncooked and imperfectly washed vegetables or fruit, or with drinking water polluted with sewage, or the eggs may be trans- mitted by the fingers from the anal region to the mouth, and, lastly, the proglottides or eggs may pass directly from the intestine into the stomach. The last two modes of infection are probably somewhat unusual, as in the great majority of persons who harbour the cystic larvse there is no evidence of the presence of the tapeworm. The cysticercus is seen as a small pale, yellowish, thin-walled vesicle, as a rule no larger than a pea, enclosed in a connective-tissue capsule, and containing clear, almost colourless watery fluid. The scolex appears projecting within the cavity, and is about the size of a millet-seed, and, if thus projecting into the cavity of the vesicle, has its four suckers, rostellum, and hooks invaginated, and they can- not therefore be seen until pressure is exerted, so as to cause extrusion of the head. At times the cysticercus is as large as a cherry or a grape, but only when it has been subjected to but little pressure during its growth—for example, if growing into the ventricles of the brain. It is not often that the cysticercus, losing its globular form, becomes irregular or racemose, or that it is capable of spontaneous movement. The cysticerci may live in the human tissues for ten or twenty years. The frequency of the parasite is not great in any country, and in the United Kingdom it is not often observed. The majority of cases are re- corded in the male sex, and during the third and fourth decade. The number of cysticerci present varies enormously in dilTerent cases— there may be only one or two, or perhaps thousands. The most frequent sites are the brain and the eyeball; less frequent are the voluntary muscles, the heart, subcutaneous connective tissue, other internal viscera, etc. In the brain the cysticerci, as already men- tioned, may attain a considerable size, and the connective - tissue capsule is thin. They are most frequent in the pia and arachnoid mater and in the vicinity of the fissure of Sylvius, or may be situated in the ventricles, but are in- frequent within the substance of the brain. The cysticercus has usually been solitary, and the surrounding brain substance has often been healthy, though in other instances it has mani- fested signs of chronic inflammation. The resulting symptoms depend largely on the number and anatomical sites of the cysticerci.PARASITES 352 Not infrequently there have been no symptoms whatever during life ; in other cases there have been headache, vertigo, diplopia, optic neuritis, hydrocephalus, and other cerebral phenomena. Intra-ocular cysticerci have been most fre- quent in Germany. The parasite is usually subretinal, may cause detachment of the retina, and may penetrate through into the vitreus. Subconjunctival cysticerci are still less common, and in the areolar tissue of the orbit they are exceedingly rare. The heart is not often infected, although in rare instances the myocardium has been exten- sively infected, but the condition gives rise to no symptoms which enable a diagnosis to be made during life. General infection of the muscles and subcutaneous tissue is exceedingly rare ; it causes symptoms resembling those of myositis or extensive peripheral neuritis. An increase in the number of eosinophile leucocytes may be expected. Achard and Loeper (1900), recording this condition in one case, found that injection of the fluid contained within the cysticercus into a mouse increased the number of its eosinophile leucocytes. A clinical diagnosis can only be made when the cysticercus is within the eye, or is situated subcutaneously and can be excised ; the prog- nosis depends on the site and number of the larvae, and surgical treatment alone is of value. Ta"tiia africana (von Linstow, 1900); two imperfect examples found in German East Africa. The head is unarmed, the neck is thick, and the genital pores alternate irregularly from side to side. Taenia asiatica (von Linstow, 1901); one example found in Asiatic Eussia, 298 mm. long. The genital pores are all on one lateral margin. Dipylidium caninum (Linne, 1758); Syn. : Tcenia canina (Linne, 1758); Taenia cucumerina (Bloch, 1782); etc.—This worm is 10 to 40 cm. in length, the head has a rostellum, four circlets of small hooks, and four suckers. The ripe proglottides have the shape of melon - seeds, and each has a double repi-oductive system with two genital pores, one on either lateral margin. It is a common parasite of the dog and cat, and has occasionally been found in children. There have usually been several examples of the worm in the individual cases. The cysti- cercoid larva, Cryptocystis trichodectis, is found in the common dog flea; seldom in the dog louse, or in Pulex irritans of man. Hymenolepsiii nana (von Siebold, 1852); Syn. : Tcfnia nanxi (von Siebold, 1852); etc.—It is about 1-2 cm. in length, and 0"7 cm. in its greatest transverse diameter. The head has a rostellum, one circlet of 24-30 small hooks, and four suckers. There are about two hundred proglottides in all. The genital pores are all situated on the same lateral aspect of the chain. The worms are usually multiple, and penetrate into the intestinal mucous membrane. They are rare, except in Italy and Sicily, where they are not at all uncommon. This parasite is regarded by some as identical with Hymeno- lepsis murina — a tapeworm of the rat and mouse, and the larva of which is a cysticercoid found in the same host as the adult worm. Hymenolepsis diminuta (Rudolphi, 1819); Syn.: Tcenia diminuta (Rudolphi, 1819); T. jiavopimctata (Weinland, 1858); etc. — It is 20-60 cm. long, 3'5 mm. broad, the head is unarmed, and the genital pores are all on the same lateral aspect of the chain. It is a common parasite in the rat, mouse, and other rodents, and has been detected in one or two instances in children. The cysticercoid larva is found in certain insects: in beetles, in Asopia farinalis both in the butterfly and caterpillar stages, and in Anisolabis annulipes — one of the Orthoptera. Davainea madagascariensis (Davaine, 1869) ; Syn. : Taenia madagascariensis (Davaine, 1869). —This cestode is 25-30 cm. in length, and has 500-700 proglottides. The head has two circlets of hooks. The genital pores are all on the one lateral margin of the worm. It has been found in a few cases in Madagascar, Mauritius, and Bangkok. The larval stage is not known. Bothriocephalus latus (Bremser, 1819); Syn.: Dibothriocephalus vulgaris (Linne, 1758).—This FIQ. 19.—Head of Bothriocephalus laUts(x8). A, from the flat side ; B, from the margin. (After Leuokart.) parasite has a length of 16-26 feet, and is con- sequently the largest human tapeworm. The head is oval or almond-shaped, 2-3 mm. long, has neither suckers nor hooks, but has a deep furrow or groove on each side, corresponding to the dorsal and ventral aspects of the proglottides. The neck is of variable length, and behind it there are 3000-4000 proglottides, sexual ma- turity being attained about the 600th. The breadth of the proglottides much exceeds their length, except towards the far end of the chain from the head, when they become longer and narrower. The genital pore of each proglottis is situated in the median line of the ventral surface, the orifice of the genital cloaca being in front of the smaller uterine aperture. The uterus is a simple convoluted tube, the convolu- tions being arranged so as to resemble a rosette with from four to seven loops. The testes number about seven hundred, and are situated inPARASITES 353 the lateral portions of the proglottis. The eggs are oval, of a brown colour, 70 /a long by 45 /x broad, and the shell has an operculum at one pole. They are shred from the proglottides before the latter are detached from the chain. Fig. 20.—Eggs of Bothriocephalus lalus. (After Mosler and Peiper.) If an egg has been passed from the host and carried into water, a six-hooked embryo gradu- ally develops within the shell in the course of several months. The embryo, which is covered with cilia, pushing open the operculum, then escapes and swims about. Its intermediate hosts are, as was proved by Braun, the pike and the burbot, though the larv;e may be seen in other fishes also. The larva, which is 1-2-5 cm. long, 2-3 mm. broad, and has a head ex- actly similar to that of B. latus, inhabits the muscles, viscera, and peritoneal cavity. When the larva is ingested by man the head buds off proglottides, and the adult tapeworm is thus formed. Bothriocephalus latus has a definite geographi- cal distribution. It is found in the western cantons of Switzerland and the adjacent parts of northern Italy. It occurs also in the districts bordering on the Baltic, especially the eastern provinces of Prussia, and the Swedish and Russian coasts, and again is a frequent parasite in Japan. In all these countries the tapeworm is acquired by eating raw, though often smoked, fish. It is a tapeworm very seldom seen in this country. Bothriocephalus cristatus (Davaine, 1874).— This worm is described as having no furrows on the head, and as presenting a difference from B. latus as regards the uterine " rosette." It is, however, not a separate species, but merely an anomalous form of the latter worm (Blan- chard, 1896; Galli-Valerio, 1900; etc.). Bothriocephalus cordatus (Leuckart, 1863).— It is 80-115 cm. long ; the head is heart-shaped, and has two grooves; the genital pore lies in the median line of each proglottis. It is para- sitic in Iceland and Greenland in the dog and walrus, and occasionally in man. Bothriocephalus Mansoni (Cobbold, 1883); Syn. : Ligula Jfansom (Cobbold, 1883); etc.— Only the larva is known. It may be as much as 20 cm. long, and 2-8 mm. broad. The head has two grooves. It has been foimd in a few cases in China and Japan, inhabiting the con- nective tissues. Symptoms caused by Tapeivo7-ms.—The head is firmly fixed to the mucous membrane between VOL. VII the villi, and no doubt is often buried to some extent in the mucous membrane. The parasite consequently causes some amount of irritation and catarrhal inflammation. In most cases, however, the disturbance caused is insufficient to produce any symptoms, the first indication of the worm being the passage of proglottides per rectum. In other cases the most common symptoms are desire for an excessive quantity of food, great partiality for sweetened articles, intermittent colic, and other unpleasant or painful abdominal sensations, especially towards the umbilical region; further, diarrhoea, anal pruritus, and in rare instances vomiting, and nervous phenomena similar to those seen in infection with Ascarides—for example, headache, inequality in the size of the pupils, convulsions, paresis, and so forth. ^ In some cases, again, there is considerable anaemia, but this is rarely serious except in infection with Bothriocephalus latus, when the ansemia has been recorded as of the pernicious form. None of the symptoms are in any way diagnostic; the only certain proof of the presence of a tapeworm is the detection of proglottides or ova. The former rarely migrate spontaneously unless they be those of T. saginata, in which species, too, they are larger and more often single than is the case with T. solium. In B. latus long chains of segments are passed. The special points to be relied on in diagnosis of the species from one another are the characters of the uterus and the structural features of the head. If no proglottides are being expelled by the patient, the characteristic eggs should be sought for; but those of T. saginata can with difficulty be distinguished from those of T. solium. Treatment.—The day before the administra- tion of the anthelmintic, the patient receives a light and liquid diet, and takes at night a dose of castor oil or other cathartic. The anthelmintic is then given on the following morning to the fasting patient. Filix mas is the best drug; for an adult 60-120 minims of the liquid extract are given in combination with mucilage and syrup in peppermint water, etc., or it is given in capsules. Two hours later castor oil is taken in order that the worm may be expelled. It is most important to search for the scolex, for unless it be expelled the development of proglottides will continue as before. If only part of the tapeworm have been expelled, and part be still protruding from the anus, no attempt should be made to pull the worm out, for a simple rectal injection will cause its expulsion with greater certainty, and is followed by less risk of tearing it and of ' These symptoms are probably due to toxic products formed by the cestodes. Calamida {Centr. f. Bakt. XXX., 1901) shows that the toxins obtained from Dipyl. caninum and T. ca'niirus, when injected into rabbits and guinea-pigs, are not only pathogenetic, but that they cause haemolysis and are positively chemiotatic, espe- cially as regards the eosinophile leucocytes. 23PARASITES 354 leaving the scolex within the rectum. Cusso, kamala, pelletierin, turpentine or naphthalin, may be used instead of filix mas, but are not more efficacious. After the expulsion of a tapeworm, the possibility of there being more than one example of the parasite, and also of there being examples of different species simultaneously in the intestine, should not be overlooked ; and, lastly, as an important means of prophylaxis, the expelled worm should be destroyed by burning. Echinococcus disease—the condition resulting from the presence, in the tissues, of Echinococcus polymorj^hus, the larva of T. echinococcus, an intestinal cestode of the dog—has been already dealt with under the headings of " Hydatid Disease" and "Liver." Only two or three points in the recent literature will, therefore, be referred to. As to the nature of the bacteria which induce suppuration within the cyst little is yet known, but the causal bacteria are probably in many instances anaerobes. Halle and Bacaloglu (1900), for example, examining a foetid hepatic echinococcal cyst, found two anaerobes {Staphylococcus parvulus and Bacillus fragilis) both very abundantly, and two aerobes {Streptococcus pyogenes and Bacterium coli) both very scantily. Our knowledge of multilocular echinococci has been much advanced by the monograph of Melnikow-Raswedenkow, Stiidien u. d. Echinoc. alveolaris sive multilocularis (1901). The primary convoluted chitinous cyst, says this writer, has granular protoplasm both on its inner and outer surface, from both of which there arise three kinds of embryos —finely granular "young forms," encapsuled ovoid embryos, and scolices. He indicates the close analogy between the development, within the human tissues, of the alveolar (multilocular) echinococcus and that of certain trematodes; and, lastly, he refers in detail to the metastases in the lungs, brain, and elsewhere. Melnikow- Raswedenkow brings the number of recorded cases of multilocular echinococcus up to 235, but since then at least two new cases have been reported (G. Hauser; and R^non, 1901). In Hauser's case there was a primary multilocular echinococcus of the right lung and pleura, with multiple metastases more especially in the brain. The case is recorded in Festschr. d. Univ. Erlangenf. Prinzreg. Luitpold. (B) Nemathelminths (Gr. v^/xa, thread), the roimd worms. Of these there are two orders: Nematodes and Acanthocephali. The former have an alimentary canal, the latter have none. Nematodes The nematodes or round worms are cylindrical and elongated, and in general are filiform or fusiform in shape. Each has a well-developed alimentary tract, commencing in a mouth at the anterior extremity which is usually pointed, and terminating at the anus, which is usually situated some little distance from the posterior end of the worm. The sexes are almost in- variably separate. The males are smaller than the females, and the posterior extremity of the former is often ventrally curved. The chief anatomical features are the following : — The outer surface is formed by a cuticula which often shows fine transverse strite, and beneath this are from without inwards, an epithelial layer, the hypodermis, and the cutis. The cutis is markedly thickened on each lateral aspect to form the " lateral lines," the less prominent thickenhigs of the cutis anteriorly and posteriorly constituting the " median lines." Within the cutis is the muscular layer, the cells of which usually have the form of large vesicles. The oral aperture is often surrounded by lips or papillae, the mouth sometimes presents cuticular " teeth," and behind the mouth there are in succession oesophagus, stomach, middle intestine, and posterior in- testine, the last opening at the anus. The nematodes possess a well-developed nervous system, and there are numerous papillae at the posterior extremity of the males. Both sexes have a system of excretory vessels, of which the canals in the "lateral lines" are easily recognised. The male has a single straight or convoluted testicle; the genital aperture opens into the posterior intestine, which is therefore a cloaca, and there are two spicules—sometimes only one—capable of being protruded from the cloacal aperture. The vulva of the female is situated ventrally, usually in the anterior half of the body, and connected by a short vagina with two uteri. The ovaries are usually long and much convuhited. The ova are fertilised within the uterus, are enclosed by a more or less thick shell, outside which there is sometimes an albuminous sheath. In most species the females lay eggs, each containing a fully de- veloped or as yet imperfectly developed embryo; in a few species the embryo escapes from the egg before being discharged from the maternal body. The host is infected by an embryo, either in a free state or enclosed within its shell (direct infection); or the embryo first infects an intermediate host, and the definitive host is thus indirectly infected. The parasitic nematodes which have to be considered belong to one or other of the follow- ing families: Angiostomidaj, Filariidaj, Tricho- trachelidfe, Strongylidse, and Ascaridaj. Angiostomid^e. — Strongyloides intestinalis (Bavay, 1877); Syn.: Rhahdonema strongyloides (Leuckart, 1883); etc. — The worms of the parasitic generation, Anguilluloe intestinalis, are about 2-2 mm. long and 0-03 mm. broad. They live in the upper part of the small intestine. According to Askanazy (1900) they bore into the mucous membrane; there the females deposit their eggs, and the embryos, which are about half as large as the adults, escape and gain thePARASITES 355 lumen of the intestine, to be afterwards evacu- ated with the fseces of the host. The second generation, Angidlhda stercoralis, has a free existence : in foul water the embryos discharged from the host become mature, the females are oviparous, whilst the subsequent embryos are again of the same form as the parasitic genera- tion, and if ingested by a suitable host develop into the mature Anguilluloe intestinalis. The parasite is found in Cochin China, Ceylon, Africa, Brazil, Italy, Spain, and other parts of Europe. Strong has recorded a case in the United States {J. Hopk. Hosp. Rep., x., 1901), and gives many bibliographical references. The parasite is not of great pathogenicity, having been detected in apparently healthy persons; but in tropical and subtropical climates it is present in great numbers in some cases of enteritis, and is not infrequently associated with Ankylostoma duodenale. As the eggs of the parasitic generation are uncommon in the faeces, diagnosis will, as a rule, be possible only after detection of the embryos in the stools. FiLARiiDiE. —The members of this family, and the morbid conditions they give rise to, have already been considered in vol. iii. Trichotrachblid^. — Trichocephahis trichi- urus (Linne, 1771); Syn.: Trichocephalus Fig. 22.—Eggs of Trichocephalus hoininis. (After Hosier and Fig. Trichocephalus Peiper.) hominis: a, male ; 6, female; nat. size. (Manson, after Blan- chard.) hominis (Schrank, 1788); T. dispar (Rudolphi, 1801); etc.; whip worm ; is of a pinkish-yellow colour. The male is 40-45 mm. long, the female about 50 mm. long; in each the anterior three- fifths of the body is long and thin like the lash of a whip, the posterior two-fifths being much thicker (about 1 mm.) and in the male spirally curved. The male has only one spicule. The eggs are oval, possess a brown shell, within which is a thick doubled contoured membrane prolonged at each pole to form a prominent and characteristic projection. The human subject is almost the only host. The parasite lives in the caecum and adjacent parts of the large intestine, being present usually in scanty, but sometimes in large, numbers. The thin anterior portion of the worm, containing the oesophagus, is usually buried in the mucosa. The parasite is found in all parts of the world, in persons of all ages, and is probably a very common parasite, more particularly in Italy and Egypt. The eggs are passed with the faeces, and the embryos then develop. Infection occurs by eggs contain- ing embryos being conveyed to the mouth with the food, or by means of the hands when soiled with contaminated earth, etc. In many instances the trichocephalus causes no symptoms, being probably present in scanty numbers; in other cases, when probably many of the parasites are present, it causes profuse, long continued, and intractable diarrhoea to which considerable anaemia and wasting are superadded. The cause of the anaemia is to some extent indicated by the presence of iron pigment in the intestinal epithelium of the worms. The stools are loose, yellowish, contain abundant characteristic eggs, and not unfre- quontly blood and Charcot-Leyden crystals, the latter, however, being of no diagnostic signifi- cance. Metschnikofi" (1901) shows that the trichocephali can also cause symptoms resem- bling those of appendicitis, and J. Girard (1901) in one case found the parasites in the vermiform appendix, causing appendicitis. The diagnosis is easy if the stools be examined microscopically. In a case of mild infection the prognosis is good, but in a severe case is somewhat unfavour- able. Treatment is best carried out by the use of thymol. In the morning when fasting 30 grains are given in capsule, and a strong purga- tive in the evening. This is repeated on the two following days. Peiper recommends benzine internally as well as enemata containing the same drug. Many species of trichocephalus are parasitic in the lower animals. T. affi,nis, for example, is found in the ox, goat, and sheep; T. crena- tus, which Leuckart regarded as identical with T. hominis, is parasitic in the pig; and T. un- gniculatus in the rabbit and hare. They are common parasites, but are not considered to be pathogenetic. Trichina spiralis (Owen, 1835) is parasitic in two forms : (a) the sexually mature adults in the small intestine; (b) the immature em- bryos or larvae encap- sules in the voluntary muscles. The adult tri- chime.—The male is 1"5 mm. long and 0*04 mm. broad; the anterior end is pointed, the posterior extremity is bi'oader, has no spicules, but has two conical appendages, one on either side of the cloaca. The female is 3-4 mm. long and 0'05-0-06 mm. broad, and viviparous. The vulva is situated in the anterior fifth of the body. The fertilised ova, having passed into Fig 23.—Trichinseencapsuled in muscle. (After Mosler and Peiper.)356 PARASITES the uterus, become mature, and the embryos are then hatched out and thereafter escape from the body of the adult female. The embryos at birth are 90-100 /x long and 6 /x broad. They bore through the intestinal wall, and thence reach the voluntary muscles. The embryos when seen as muscle trichiwx have attained a length of O'7-l mm., are encapsuled, and usually spirally coiled. The three most important hosts are the rat, pig, and man. The mouse, dog, cat, fox, and other animals are less frequently affected ; the horse, ox, sheep, guinea-pig, etc., may be in- fected artificially. The muscles of any animal containing encapsuled trichinae are termed tri- chinous. Man acquires Trichina spiralis by the ingestion of trichinous pork, and similarly the pig, rat, or dog acquires the parasite by eating the trichinous flesh of other animals. Trichiniasis, or trichinosis, is a disease which occurs in all countries. The two most important factors in causing the disease in man are : firstly, the prevalence of the disease in the lower animals, more particularly in the pig; and, secondly, and of greater importance, is the partiality for raw ham or sausage or for underdone pork mani- fested by persons of any nationality. In view of this latter factor the disease is, as might be expected, much more frequent in Germany, and more especially in Northern Germany, than else- where in Europe ; and from almost whatever part of the world statistics are taken, it is found that a relatively large number of infected persons have been Germans. Friedberger and Frohner (1896) calculate that in Germany of 10,000 swine 1 is infected with trichinae ; or, again, that at the abattoirs in Prussia there were 10,000 affected swine during 1876-82, and 3000 during 1890-93. In some parts of Germany, too, infection is prob- ably conveyed to man by dog's flesh. Pirl (1899), for example, records that in Dessau there are on an average over 200 dogs slaughtered for food every year, and that of 405 two were markedly infected. The disease is seldom seen in this country, nor is it common in North America. Osier (1898), for instance, says that up to 1893 there had been only 709 cases in the United States, with, however, records of " 40 or 50 " further cases up to February 1898. Yet the disease in the pig is exceedingly common in the United States, though American writers seldom admit the fact. At Hamburg in 1883, 0'69 per cent of American pork was found to be trichinous, whilst Neumann (1892) quotes Chattin, who at Havre found 14-65 per cent infected, and he considers that on an average about 3 per cent of pork exported from America contain trichinae. Trichinous flesh having been ingested, the capsule surrounding each embryo is digested in the stomach, and the embryo thus liberated. Two or four days later each embryo has de- veloped in the intestinal canal of the host into an adult male or female trichina, and now in- habits the upper part of the small intestine. After fertilisation of the ova of the female a fresh brood of embryos is produced, the libera- tion of these embryos from the adult female commencing seven to eight days after ingestion of the trichinous flesh. The birth of embryos, to the number of about 1000 to 1500, continues for about five or six weeks, after which time the adult trichinae usually die and are expelled from the host. The embryos, which are 90-100 /a long, penetrate the intestinal wall of the host and wander thence, probably into the lymphatic vessels, and are then carried by the thoracic duct to the right side of the heart, and being- carried through the pulmonary capillaries are arrested in the capillaries of the voluntary muscles. According to Askanazy (1894) and Cerfontaine (1893), however, the female trichinae wander into the mucosa and submucosa, and then deposit their embryos in the lymphatic spaces. In the muscles the embryos attain the length of about 1 mm. Eight to ten days are required before this migration is accomplished, and infection of the muscles is therefore not complete until fifteen or sixteen days after the ingestion of trichinous flesh. The developmental cycle is thus completed. Ingestion of trichinous fiesh is essential if an animal is to be infected with Trichina spiralis, for unless the embryos pass through an intermediate or larval stage in the muscles they do not attain maturity in the intestinal canal. Any voluntary muscle may be affected, but the trichinae are always most numerous towards the junction of a muscle and its tendon. The muscles most abundantly infected are, in order of frequency, the diaphragm, intercostals, cervi- cal, laryngeal and ocular muscles, biceps and triceps. The total number of trichinae present in the muscles in any given case is probably very great, 30-100 millions on an approximate calculation. The embryo, when it has ceased its migration, becomes coiled up in a wide spiral within the sarcolemma. The presence of the parasites causes acute interstitial myositis, and a capsule is thereby formed around the trichinae. This capsule, formed of connective tissue, sarcolemma, and of a layer derived from the parasite, is oval or lemon-shaped, its long axis is parallel to that of the muscle fibres, and it measures about 0-4 mm. long, by 0-2 mm. in diameter. Within a capsule there is usually one embryo, sometimes two or more. The muscle fibres undergo granular degeneration and fragmentation, and show nuclear proliferation. Eosinophile leuco- cytes are found in relative abundance in the affected areas. There is also a great increase of eosinophile leucocytes in the peripheral blood, a point of very considerable diagnostic im- portance. T. R. Brown (1898) records a case where they formed 68-2 per cent of the total357 PARASITES leucocytes. The parasite, when once encap- siiled, does not exhibit any further change, and yet is capable of retaining its vitality for many years. The capsule, however, frequently under- goes secondary changes. Of these the most important is calcification, which occurs first at the poles of the capsule. This change is often deferred for years, more especially in the pig, and in man it rarely occurs before the fifth month, and in the pig until after the seventh month. Even within a calcified capsule the trichina often preserves its vitality for years. Other, though less important, changes are hyaline degeneration and the formation of adipose tissue, which occurs towards the poles of the capsule. Tyichinous Pork.—If the pig die or be killed within six weeks of infection, one finds signs of acute enteritis and both adult and embryonic trichinae in the intestine. At a later stage the trichinae are found only in the flesh. To the naked eye small scattered greyish points are seen, but are not readily detected unless calcifi- cation has occurred. They are most likely to be confounded with Sarcocystis Miescheri {vide p. 343); the cyst of the latter, however, is usually unmistakably larger than are the capsules of trichinae. For diagnosis it is advisable that small fragments of the flesh should be cut out, placed on a slide, teased out or subjected to pressure, O'l per cent acetic acid solution added, and the specimen examined with a magnification of about 40. Portions of the flesh of all pigs slaughtered in Germany are subjected to sys- tematic examination of this nature. If larval trichinae are found the whole carcase should be condemned. It may be important, however, to ascertain whether the trichinae be alive or dead. To do so, the slide bearing the teased-out muscle is heated to 35''-40° C, and if the trichinae are alive they will exhibit more or less active movement. A more reliable method is that of feeding a sparrow with the suspected flesh. In birds the larval trichinae become sexually mature, and produce a fresh brood of embryos; but the latter do not migrate to the muscles, but are expelled with the faeces. The sparrow is therefore killed about ten hours later, and its intestinal contents examined microscopi- cally. Were the trichinae alive when ingested, they are now seen in active movement on the slide ; but were they dead, they are now motion- less and uncoiled, or perhaps only fragments of the dead worms have resisted digestion. Larval trichinae soon perish if subjected to heat. Krabbe (quoted by Neumann), for ex- ample, found that small pieces of infected pork were rendered innocuous by immersion in water at 55° C. for five minutes, at 54" C. for ten to fifteen minutes, and at 52'5° C. for twenty-five to thirty minutes. In actual practice thirty-six minutes' boiling for each kilogram of weight is found to kill all trichinae with certainty. Again, as with cysticerci, roasting is less reliable than boiling, for unless the central portions of the joint be thoroughly cooked, the trichinae will retain their vitality. Ordinary freezing has no effect on trichinae, and salting and smoking, though often efficacious, are both unreliable. The prophylactic measures to be employed against trichiniasis are, therefore, the systematic examination of the flesh of all pigs slaughtered, and, what is still more important, because such examination is not entirely reliable, the thorough cooking of all pork, ham, or sausage. The clinical features of trichiniasis in the human subject are dealt with in the article " Muscles," vol. vi. Strongylid/e are all characterised by having six oral papillae, and by the males having a caudal bursa. Representatives of three genera, Eustrongylus, Strongylus, and Uncinaria, have to be considered. Eustrongylus visceralis (Gmelin, 1789); Syn. : Eiistrongylus gigas (Rudolphi, 1802) is of a blood-red colour. The male measures as much as 40 cm. in length, 4-6 cm. in transverse diameter, and has one spicule. The female may be 100 cm. long, and is oviparous. It is a parasite of the pelvis of the kidney which it destroys. It is chiefly seen in the dog, less frequently in the horse, ox, or other animal, and in a few isolated cases has been discovered in man. Sti'ongylus suhtilis (Looss, 1895). — This species has been found in the small intestine of native inhabitants in Cairo and Alexandria. The male is 4-5 mm. long, and has two spicules ; the female is 5-7 mm. long, and oviparous. Strongyli are very frequent parasites in the bronchi of the lower animals. There are eight difl^erent species, and all are pathogenetic. The most important are Str. filaria in the sheep and goat, Str. 7nicrurus in bovine animals, and Str. par adorns in the pig. Str. paradoxus has in one or two instances been detected in man. Lastly, there is Str. rufescens which inhabits the bronchi of sheep and goats, the eggs and embryos infecting the lungs and causing ex- tensive broncho-pneumonia or nodular lesions resembling tuberculosis. The disease is very common and fatal in lambs during spring and early summer. There is no analogous condition in the human subject. Uncitiaria duodenalis (Dubini, 1843); Syn. : Ankylostoma duodenale (Dubini, 1843); Sclero- storna duodenale (Cobbold, 1864); Dochmius duodenalis (Leuckart, 1876); etc.—The mouth of each worm bears six chitinous teeth. The male is 6-10 mm. long, and at the posterior extremity has a trilobed, somewhat bell-shaped bursa with two long slender spicules. The female is on an average 11'4 mm. in length, the vulva is in the posterior third of the body, and the caudal extremity is pointed. The eggs are oval, about 50 jx long by 35 fx broad, and358 PARASITES thin shelled. At a suitable temperature (20°- 30° C.) and in the presence of decomposing faecal matter the actively motile embryos are hatched out. Although it is not yet definitely determined whether there is a free generation, there is considerable evidence against such a supposition, and Giles (1901) admits that his theory of an alternation of generations is un- tenable. Man is probably the only host of this worm, although the same species is said to be parasitic in certain monkeys. The parasite inhabits the duodenum and upper parts of the small intestine, the anterior extremity being imbedded in the mucous membrane and fixed thereto by the chiti- nous teeth. It is a frequent parasite in tropical and subtropical climates, is exceedingly common in Egypt, Burmah, Madras, Bengal, and other parts of India, in the West Indies, Brazil, San Salvador, and Guatemala. It is common, too, in Italy, and by Italian labourers has been trans- ferred to other parts of Europe. Severe out- breaks of ankylostomiasis occurred during the tunnelling of the St. Gothard Pass, and still occur from time to time in mines, brickworks, etc. In Northern Europe, however, the disease is not endemic, for the free living embryos are killed by frost. Perhaps the most widely accepted opinion as to the mode of infection is that this occurs by means of food contaminated with soil containing the embryos. Further, in ankylos- tomiasis earth-eating is not an uncommon phenomenon, and reinfection of the host will thereby be facilitated. The drinking of polluted water is, however, regarded by some as of great etiological importance ; but there are a number of facts which throw doubt on this being the common mode of infection, one being that, according to Giles, the development of the embryos is retarded or even entirely inhibited by their immersion in water, whilst Looss (1901) states that the embryos do not float in water, but soon sink. A third view as to the mode of infection is based on the experiments of Looss (1901), which show that the embryos can rapidly enter the skin through the hair follicles. He himself claims to have been in- fected in this manner, and considers infection through the skin to be the usual mode of infection of, at any rate, the field-labourers in Egypt, of tunnel-workers, and of all those whose occupation necessitates their skin being in more or less constant contact with wet and contami- nated soil. Persons in normal health are frequently the hosts of this parasite. Thus it is calculated that 72 per cent of persons in some parts of India harbour this parasite and remain in good health (Fearnside, 1900), and that at least half of the poorer inhabitants of Burmah possess this parasite (Baker, 1900). It is therefore evident that every individual who harbours this parasite cannot, strictly speaking, be said to be affected with ankylostomiasis. Hence this term must be reserved to denote the morbid condition resulting from the presence of the worms. The minimum number of the parasites requisite to cavise ankylostomiasis is variously estimated at from 50 to 500, whilst in many instances enor- mous numbers are present. The parasite with- draws blood from the host by suction, and this loss of blood is regarded by some as the cause of one of the most prominent features in ankylostomiasis, namely, the severe anaemia; though many suppose that the anaemia is due to some toxic substance excreted by the parasites, or, again, to absorption of intestinal toxins through the lesions in the mucous membrane. In the initial stages there is gastro-intestinal disturbance, with progressive loss of weight; anaemia develops rapidly or slowly, and in time becomes profound, and is associated with palpitation, vertigo, and other symptoms of severe anaemia. The red blood corpuscles are reduced by about two-thirds, and the colour index is reduced to about one- half of the normal. There is at times a moderate fall in the total number of leucocytes,- but the eosinophile leucocytes are increased. In the later stages there is wasting, cardiac weakness, and dropsy. The diagnosis is readily made by the elimination of other possible causes of anaemia, and by the detection of the eggs in the stools. Post-mortem, the upper part of the small intestine shows, besides the parasites, chronic catarrh, small areas of congestion, haemorrhage, erosion, and even ulceration of the mucous membrane, and sometimes thei'e are dilatation of the stomach, cardiac hypertrophy and dilatation, and various secondary phenomena. Prophylaxis.—In countries where ankylosto- miasis is endemic much may be expected from improved sanitation. In many parts of Europe in which there have been outbreaks of " miners' anaemia," as the disease is often termed, good results have been obtained by the suitable erection of latrines, by their regular disinfection with chloride of lime, and by the instruction of miners and others as to the nature and mode of propagation of the disease. In this country, foreigners, and especially Italians, should not be permitted to work in mines until microscopic examination has shown them to be free of the parasite. In the treatme7it of the disease thymol is the best drug. After a dose of castor oil, 30-60 grains of thymol should be given in the morning to the fasting patient, and this is followed by another dose of castor oil in the evening. Manson recommends that 30 grains of tliymol be given hourly for four times. The drug, as a rule, effects a cure, although the experience of many proves it to be at times inefficacious. In such cases santonin and filix mas may be tried. The preparations of iron are useful after expulsion of the parasites.PARASITES 359 Other species of the same genus as Anhylos- toma duodenale are seen in some of the lower animals. The most important is Uncinaria t7'igonocephala, found in the small intestine and caecum of the dog and fox. It causes severe and often fatal anaemia in packs of hounds, but is not transferable to man. The only other representative of the Strongylidfe to which reference can be made is Sclerostovia equinum; Syn.: Strongylus armatus. It is a common parasite. The adults inhabit the cgecum and upper part of the colon of the Equidse. The eggs are passed from the bowel, and after the embryos have been hatched out and ingested by the horse, they are chiefly found causing aneurysms of the mesenteric vessels. The thrombi often break up to form simple or septic emboli. AscaridyE have three oral papillse, one dorsal and two ventral. There are two genera: Ascaris and Oxyuris Ascaris lumbricoides common round worm. I \\\ (Linne, 1758); the In general form it somewhat resembles the common earth- worm, being cylindrical, pointed at both ends, and of a pinkish-yellow or greyish-yellow col- our. It inhabits the upper portions of the small intestine. The male measures 15-25 cm. in length, 0'3 cm. in diameter, the caudal end being ventrally curved and bearing two spicules. The female is larger, and may be as much as 40 cm. long and 0'5 cm. broad. The ovaries are convoluted, and about ten times the length of the female worm. The vulva is at the junction of the middle and anterior thirds of the body. The eggs are oval, about 50-70 /a long and 40-55 fj. broad, reddish- brown, and have a thick shell, outside which there is often a clear, irregular, albuminous sheath. The eggs are present in great numbers in the ffeces, and if they be exposed to moisture after having been expelled from the host, an embryo is slowly or rapidly developed within each egg according to the prevailing tempera- ture, but usually in five or six weeks. Infection occurs, without there being any intermediate F Fig. 24.—Ascans lumbricoides: M, male; F, female; half nat. size. (After Thoma.) Fig. 25.—El s of Ascaris lumbricoides. (After Mosler and Peiper.) host, by means of contaminated drinking water, or by the transference to the mouth of such eggs as contain embryos by the hands after they have been in contact with contaminated soil, and in about ten or twelve weeks fresh ova are being discharged into the intestinal canal of the host. Ascaris lumbricoides is found in all parts of the world, and is one of the commonest parasites. It is particularly common during childhood and pu- berty, and each host harbours one, two, or pos- sibly hundreds of the worms. The disturbance re- sulting from in- testinal ascarides is, as a rule, proportionate to their numbers. If there are more than one or two, they usually cause catarrhal inflam- mation with diarrhoea, and not infrequently small punctate wounds of the mucous mem- brane. In rare instances, when there are many worms, they have been known to be coiled up into a mass sufficiently large to cause in- testinal obstruction. The ascaris, however, does not always remain confined within the intestine, for it exhibits a marked propensity to migrate. It frequently wanders to the stomach (whence it may be vomited), to the oesophagus, pharynx, mouth, trachea, lungs, nasal cavity, accessory sinuses of the nose, or bile-ducts. The intestinal ascaris may be ex- pected to have numerous intestinal bacteria on its surface, and to transport them into whatever part of the body it migrates. Demateis (1900) also shows that there are both saprophytic and pathogenetic bacteria, bacterium coli, bacillus acidi lactici, streptococci, and others in the in- testine of ascarides. These facts explain why it is that when the worms wander into the bile- ducts they cause hepatic abscesses, and when they migrate to the lungs, cause pulmonary abscess or gangrene. The worms may also migrate from the alimentary canal through the anus, and may then wander into the vagina. Again, the worms have been known to perforate the intestinal wall and cause a localised abscess or peritonitis, and may also migrate into and perforate through the wall of the vermiform appendix causing appendicitis. Perforation of the intestine is fortunately, however, a relatively rare occurrence. There are some authorities who do not believe that ascarides are ever able to penetrate through the healthy intestinal wall, although admitting that the worms may pene- trate through at situations where there are ulcers of tubercular, typhoid, or other nature. In many patients there are nervous symptoms which used to be commonly regarded as reflex phenomena, but which are now often referred toPARASITES 360 some toxic substance which the worm naturally possesses or excretes as a product of its meta- bolism. Of such phenomena, which are most frequently seen in children, nervous irritability, pruritus and picking of the nose, grinding of the teeth, strabismus, dilatation of the pupils, head- ache, muscular twitchings, choreic movements, convulsions, and urticaria may be mentioned. It is usually difficult to determine to what extent such symptoms as these are due to the presence of intestinal parasites. In many cases they are quite independent of any such cause, but the phenomena entirely cease, in not a few cases, after expulsion of all the ascarides. Unless the parasites are passed spontaneously, the diagnosis is to be determined by detection of the characteristic ova on microscopic examina- tion of the faeces. Only a small quantity need be examined, for if there are any ova at all they are numerous. A common and useful method is the examination of the material filling the eye of an ordinary metal catheter, after it has been passed a short distance into the rectum. Treatment is commenced only after detection of ascarides or their ova. Santonin is the most reliable drug. It is most suitably administered in powder form, in castor oil, or in the case of infants, in olive oil. When santonin is given to a fasting patient, it is a more efficacious anthel- mintic, but is then generally regarded as more liable to induce yellow vision (xanthopsia), vertigo, vomiting, convulsions, or other toxic effects. The drug should be given on two or three successive nights, and followed by castor oil each morning. The worms are often, but not invariably, dead when expelled. Turpen- tine, thymol, and naphthalin are recommended by some as substitutes for santonin. Attention should be paid to the patient's diet; carbohy- drates and all articles containing sugar should be prohibited as far as possible, milk, fish, and meat forming the chief articles of diet for a few days. Various species of ascaris are parasitic in the lower animals. One of the most frequent is Ascaris canis; Syn: A. mystax, which occurs chiefly in the cat and dog. It is claimed to have been found in one or two instances in the human subject. Oxyuris vermicularis (LiiuK^, 1767); the thread-worm.—The male is 3-5 mm. long, the caudal end is obtuse and ventrally curved, and bears one spicule; the female is 10 mm. long, the posterior end pointed. Both are white in colour. The female is oviparous, the eggs being oval, 50 /a long and about 20 fx. broad, and the shell dense, though somewhat thin. The embryo within the shell is often developed whilst the egg is still in the uterus, but if not, is rapidly developed in the presence of warmth, for example, in the fseces. The life-cycle is completed without a change of host. Infection occurs by the ingestion of eggs along with contaminated water, uncooked vegetables or fruit. The shell is then digested, and the embryo, after escaping, develops into the adult worm. This parasite is found in all countries, and is FIG. i^.—Oxyuris vermicu- fiq. 27.—Eggs of Oxyuris vermi- laris, male and female. cularis. (After Hosier and (After Gerhardt-Seifert.) Peiper.) probably more common than any other ento- zoon, being specially frequent in children. Its habitat is the lumen of the large intestine, more especially the csecum, sigmoid flexure of the colon, and rectum, though the worms are also found in the ileum. M. A. Ruffer (1901) in one case found the eggs in the wall of the rectum, and he suggests that the female may frequently penetrate the mucous membrane. The worms frequently migrate from the rectum, chiefly on to the skin in the anal region, and may thus reach the vulva. The presence of oxyurides in the rectum and likewise their migration cause great pruritus, and the scratch- ing to relieve this is often followed by the adhesion of eggs to the fingers and reinfection of the host. In some instances the oxyurides cause no symptoms, and are detected accidentally. In the great majority of patients, however, irritation and pruritus in the anal region are the chief symptoms; both are intensified at night-time, because the oxyurides then tend to migrate from the rectum, and the patient's sleep is often very markedly disturbed. Secondary lesions, the results of scratching, are not uncommon in the anal and perineal regions. Other common symptoms are intes- tinal catarrh, with diarrhoea, tenesmus, pro- lapsus recti, and enuresis. In female patients the worms not infrequently migrate to the vulva and vagina, causing vulvo-vaginitis and in some cases leading to masturbation. In some patients indirect nervous symptoms, re- sembling those produced by Ascaris lumbricoides, may be observed. In every patient in whom there is nocturnal pruritus ani, oxyurides should be suspected. If they be present, they are easily seen like small, white, actively motile threads on inspection of the anus or dejecta. If the worms cannot be detected by the naked eye, microscopic search for the eggs is of but little value. Treatment should not be commenced until the presence of the worms is ascertained. They361 PARASITES are not situated solely in the rectum, hence it is evident that treatment per rectum alone will seldom, if ever, bring about the expulsion of all. On seven to ten consecutive days, after the bowels have moved, a rectal injection of a strong solution of common salt or infusion of quassia is administered, whilst the hips are elevated. The patient should be directed to retain the injection as long as possible. Castor oil, jalap, calomel, or, in an intractable case, santonin, are to be given every second or third day for a week or ten days. Any antiseptic ointment is useful in lessening the pruritus, and, as in infection with ascarides, an appro- priate diet should be given. Notwithstanding energetic treatment it is often months before the patient is rid of all the worms. AcANTHOCEPHALi.—The Echinorhynchi are cylindrical unsegmented worms, without an alimentary canal, but having a protractile pro- boscis anteriorly armed with hooks. The adults inhabit the alimentary canal of vertebrates, the larvae being encysted in the visceral cavity of Crustacea or insects. There are about two hundred different species of these worms, para- sitic in various vertebrate hosts, but Echino- rhynchi are very exceptionally found in man. That they may develop in the human intestine, however, was shown by Calandruccio (1888), who swallowed larvse of E. moniliformis, and from whom fifty-three adult Echinorhynchi were expelled thirty-nine days later. Echinorhynchus gigas (Goeze, 1782).—In some parts of the world, though not in this country, it is a common parasite in the small intestine of the pig, and is frequently present in large numbers. The length of the male is 6-9 cm., that of the female 20-35 cm. In a few doubtful instances the worm has been recorded in man. Echinorhynchus hominis, found by Lambl in 1859 in the intestine of a boy in Prague. It was 5-6 mm. long. Arthropods The parasitic Arthropods are all included in two classes and in four orders :— I. Arachnoidea: {a) Acarina, {b) LingvMtulida. II. Insecta : (c) Rynchota, (d) Diptera. (a) Acarina (Mites).—The head, thorax, and abdomen are all fused in one. Anteriorly, there is a rostrum adapted for the purpose of biting, sucking, or adhesion; there are four pairs of articulated legs bearing at the distal end hairs, claws, or suckers. The sexes are separate. The young forms have three pairs of legs, i.e. are hexapod. Leptus autumnalis (Shaw, 1790). — It is a hexapod young form, not exceeding 0-5 mm. in length, of a reddish colour, is found on grasses and bushes in summer-time, and often attacks man and other animals, sucking blood and causing cutaneous inflammation. Pediculoides ventricosus (Newport, 1850) is 0-1-0-2 mm. in length, is usually parasitic in the larvse of insects, and has been known to transfer itself to the skin of persons handling grain. Argas reflexus, Dermanyssus avium, and other avian parasites, Ixodes ricinus of the dog, and other Acari, are occasional and accidental para- sites on the skin of man. Sarco23tes scabiei (Lixme, 1748); Syn. : Acarus scabiei (Linne, 1748).—The Sarcopts of different animals are merely varieties of one species. Sa7-coptes scabiei, var. hominis:—the body is slightly oval, and when observed from the dorsal aspect only the two anterior pairs of legs are visible. The male is 0-2-0'3 mm. long, and has suckers on the first, second, and fourth pairs of legs. The female is 0-3-0-4 mm. long, has suckers only on the first and second pairs of legs, and inhabits burrows in the epidermis, in which she lays her oval eggs. For further information, vide " Scabies." Sarcoptes minor (Furstenberg, 1861).—There are two varieties {S. min. cati and aS'. min. cuniculi). If accidentally transferred to man it causes a slight transient skin eruption. Parasites of the genera Psoroptes and Sym- biotes, which ai'e of great frequency and im- portance in the domestic mammals, are not transferable to man. Demodex folliculorum (Simon, 1842); Syn.: Acartis folliculorum (Simon, 1842); etc.—The body is elongated. The cephalo-thorax has four pairs of legs, the abdomen is conical and trans- versely striated. The length of the variety found in man is 0-3-0"4 mm. The animals live as saprophytes in the sebaceous glands, although they sometimes block the ducts and cause com- medones. The variety found in the dog is of smaller size, and is the cause of follicular mange. {b) LingvMtulida. — The body is elongated and vermiform; the head, thorax, and abdomen are fused together; the sexes are separate, and the adults inhabit the nasal cavities or lungs of mammals or reptiles. Linguatula caprina (Abildgaard, 1789); Syn. : Linguatula tcenioides (Rudolphi, 1810) ; etc.-— The male is about 2 cm. long, whitish in colour ; the female is 8-13 cm. in length, and yellowish. The adults live in the nasal cavities or frontal sinuses of various mammals, and occasionally of man, causing severe inflamma- tion. The eggs pass from the host with the nasal discharge, and if they are subsequently swallowed with water or vegetables by some other animal, the young form, or larva, escapes from the egg, becomes encysted in the liver, passing through a second larval stage, in which it is known as Pentastomum denticulatum, and is 4-6 mm. long. In this state it afterwards wanders from the liver either to the nasal cavities where it develops directly into the adult form, or wanders to the lungs or intestine, and is thence discharged from the intermediate host,362 PARASITES and if it subsequently gain access to the nasal cavity of another host, it then develops into the adult Linguatida. The adult has very rarely been observed in man, but statistics show that the presence of one or two examples of the larva is not very uncommon in the human liver in Germany, Austria, Russia, and Switzerland. The larva does not cause evident symptoms, and is only detected post-mortem. Forocephalus constrictus (v. Siebold, 1852); Syn.: Pentastomum constrictum (v. Siebold, 1852).—Only the larva is known. It is 13 mm. long, and has in a few cases, and mainly in Egypt, been found in the human liver. (c) Rynchota, or Hemiptera, are all ectozoa. The four chief species are : Pediculus cajntis, Pediculus vestimentorum, Pediculus pubis {Phthi- rius inguinalis), and Cimex lectularius (the bed bug). Vide " Pediculosis." (d) Diptera. Vide article, " Myiasis." All the adult parasitic Dip)tera are ectozoa, obtain- ing nourishment from the skin of their host. Such are Pulex irritans (the common flea), Sarcopsylla pyenetrans (sand flea), found in Central and South America, and on the West Coast of Africa, and other stinging and blood- sucking insects. Lastly, the larvse of Diptera may be entozoa, living chiefly within the skin, the nasal cavities, or alimentary canal of their host, and causing the condition termed Myiasis. Pa,ra,Siticicle.—A substance or drug which has a fatal effect upon parasites, e.g. those of the intestine, when the parasiticide is called an anthelmintic (Male Fern, Santonin, etc.), or those of the skin (Stavesacre, Sulphur, Mercurial preparations, etc.). ParasitolOgry.—The branch of medicine or biology which deals with parasites and parasitism. See Parasites. Parasol Insertion. — An abnormal mode of attachment of the umbilical cord to the placenta: the funis, a few inches from its insei'tion into the placenta, ceases to have a cord-like appearance, and its vessels pass out- wards to be attached to the foetal surface of the afterbirth, like the spokes of an umbrella. Parasternal.—Beside the sternum; thus the term parasternal line is used to indicate an imaginary vertical line passing midway between the lateral margin of the sternum and the nipple line or (more correctly) the mid- clavicular line. Parasynovitis. — Inflammation of the tissues in the neighbourhood of a joint, or, more particularly, of the connective tissue next to the synovial membrane. Parasyphilis. —The group of morbid conditions which are regai'ded as due indirectly to syphilis, which have not its anatomo-patho- logical characters, and over which mercury and the iodides have no remedial power; tabes dorsalis and general paralysis are generally regarded as parasyphilitic. See Syphilis (Classification, Parasyphilis). Parathyroid.—Lying at the side of the thyroid gland, or, more particularly, the para- thyroid glands, two in number on each side, which lie near the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {^Anatomy and Physiology); Physiology, Internal Secre- tions OR Hormones {Parathyroids). Paratonia. — Overstrain or over-exten- sion. ParatrichOSiS.—A morbid development of hair either in the direction of defect, or of its presence in parts from which it is usually absent. Paratuberculosis. — A group of morbid conditions regarded as indirectly due to tuberculosis, or of conditions which are not in themselves tuberculous but to which tuberculous subjects are prone. Paratyphlitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue in the neighbourhood of, and especially behind, the caecum. See Appendix, Diseases of {Appendicitis, Introduction). Paratyphoid.—A morbid condition simulating typhoid fever clinically, but lacking the Widal reaction; it is not due to the typhoid bacillus but to the paracolon bacillus. See Typhoid Fever ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Bastard Typhoid). Paratypical.—Not regular or typical in character. Pa.ravag'initiS. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the vagina ; para- colpitis. Pa.ra.vesical. — Situated beside the bladder, e.g. the paravesical fossa, which (when the bladder is empty) is a shallow depression of the peritoneum at the side of the bladder. Paraxial.—Lying beside the axis of the body, e.g. the 2Mraxial mesoderm of the embryo (two bars of mesodermal tissue which lie one at each side of the neural tube). Parchment Crackiing.—The peculiar crackling sensation perceived by the fingers when they palpate areas of delayed ossification in the cranium of rachitic infants {cranio-tabes). See Rickets. Paregoric.—Literally, the term paregoric (Gr. TrapT^yopco), I comfort) means soothing, but it is specially applied to the Tinctura Camphorae Composita, which contains 2 grains of opium in363 PAREGORIC each fluid ounce ; Scotch jmreyoric is the Tinc- tura O'pii Ammoniata of the B.P., and contains 5 grains of opium in the fluid ounce ; in America, the Tinctura Opii Camphcyrata of the U.S. P. is known as paregoric or paregoric elixir. See Opium ; Toxicology {Opium and Morphine). Pareirae Radix.—The root of Chondo- dendron tomentosutn, a plant of Peru and Brazil. Its chief constituent is an alkaloid called buxine, identical with berberine. Preparation—Extrac- tum Pareirae Liquidum. Dose—1-2 5. It is used in chronic inflammatory conditions of the genito-urinary tract, such as pyelitis, cystitis, urethritis, etc. Parencepiialon.—The cerebellum (q.V.). Parenchymatous.—Relating to the parenchyma, i.e. the typical or essential part of an organ ; e.g. parenchymatoiis nephritis, paren- chymato^is ovaritis, etc. See Inflammation {Nomenclature, Kinds of Inflammation, The Site); Nephritis {Mo7-bid Anatomy, Acute Nephritis); Ovaries, Diseases of {Inflammation, Oophoritis). Parepididymis.—Theorgan of Giraldes or paradidymis of Waldeyer; a relic of the urinary part of the mesonephros. P a r e p i t h y m i a.—Depraved longings (Gr. irapd, beyond, irelOiD, I persuade). ParerethisiS.—Abnormal excitement or irritation of a part (Gr. irapa, beyond, ipeOi^w, I provoke). Paresis.—Incomplete paralysis, or a slight loss of muscular power. See Paralysis ; Senile Insanity {Neuroses of Senility, Paresis). Pareunia.—Sexual connection or coitus. See Gynaecology, Diagnosis in. Parietal.—Relating to a wall (Lat. paries, a wall), and especially to the bones which cover the lateral aspects of the brain {parietal bones). See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Vertex Positions); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Mechanism in Contracted Pelvis, Parietal Pre- sentation). ParietO-.—in compound words parieto- signifies (usually) relating to the parietal bones of the skull, or the parietal lobes of the brain; e.g. parieto-occipital, parieto-sphenoid, parieto- squamosal, parieto-tempoml, etc. Pariilin.—A crystalline substance (C^oH-o Ojg) obtained from sarsaparilla-root. Parinaud's Conjunctivitis.— A tj'pe of conjunctivitis due to infection from animals; it is a severe form. Parinaud's Ophthaimopiegria. —An ophthalmoplegia of peripheral origin con- sisting in paralysis of the external rectus of one side, and spasm of the internal rectus of the other side. Paris' Disease.—Acrodynia, a disease allied to pellagra {<i.v.). Paris Green.—A preparation containing arsenic; it is aceto-arsenite of copper. ParistlimiC.—Relating to the tonsils (Gr. ■Ko.pLd&fi.iov, tonsil), e.g. paristhmitis, inflam- mation of the tonsils. Parity.—The condition of a woman as to childbirth; e.g. a woman who has borne no children is called nuUiparous, one who has had several children is multiparous, etc. Parkinson's Disease. — Paralysis agitans. See Paralysis ( With Tremor). ParodontitiS. — Inflammation of the tissue surrounding a tooth. See Teeth {Alveolar Abscess). Pa.roenia.—An act committed while under the influence of alcohol (Gr. Trapd, beside, and oivos, wine). Paroniria.—Sleep disturbed by dreams (Gr. 6v€Lpos, a dream), especially disagreeable ones. Paronycilia.—Whitlow. See Syphilis {Secojidary Affections of Nails). ParOOpilOron.—The hilum of the ovary, containing relics of the mesonephros. ParopllObia. — Hydrophobia or rabies {q.V.). ParopsiS.—Hallucination or illusion of vision ; literally, false seeing (Gr. -n-apd, beside or beyond, oi//is, sight). Parosmia.—A perverted sense of smell. See Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Neuroses of Olfac- tion, Pai-osmia); see also Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms). Parotic.—Related to the neighbourhood of the ear. Parotid Gland, Disorders of. Introduction ...... 364 Anatomy ...... 364 Injuries of the Gland .... 365 Injuries to Stensen's Duct. . .365 Inflammatory Conditions . . . 365 Chronic Inflammation . . 365 Secondary Inflammation . . . 365 Siqjpiiration ..... 366 Treatment ..... 366 Tumours . . . . .366 Innocent ...... 367 Malignant ..... 367 Fistula 368364 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF See also Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, Se- quelce); Glosso - pharyngeal Nerve {Nerve- Supply of Parotid Gland); Gout, Irregular {Parotitis); Lymphatic System, Physiology AND Pathology {Lymphatic Glands); Mumps ; Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovariotomy, Sequelae, Parotitis); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth); Pneumonia, Clinical {Complications); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxoedema, Chemical Pathology); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequela;); Typhus Fever {Complications and Sequela;). Some knowledge of the anatomical relations of the parotid gland is necessary, as its disorders fall naturally under the three chief headings of injury, inflammation, and new growths, each of which, from the position of the gland, may involve structures of great importance. A brief description of the anatomy of the parotid, so far as it is useful to the pathology, will form, therefore, a fitting introduction to this article. Anatomy The parotid glands are the largest of the salivary glands. They lie on either side of the face, and their anatomical relations are similar. Each gland lies below and in front of the ear, stretching forwards on the outer surface of the masseter muscle, where there is often a small and detached portion, the soda parotidis. The gland is enclosed in a fossa of prismatic shape, bounded by two layers of fascia forming the parotid sheath. The inner surface of the gland frequently extends very deeply as the pharyn- geal prolongation which passes in front of and behind the styloid process towards the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. It thus passes into the subparotidean space, and along the lateral wall of the pharynx, to which it is sometimes attached, and in so doing it is in relation with the deep part of the glenoid cavity. The anterior surface of the gland is grooved externally by the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, and passes forwards between the two pterygoid muscles, whilst the posterior surface rests upon the external auditory meatus, the mastoid process, the sterno-mastoid muscles, and the posterior belly of the digastric. The deep surface of the gland has a very close relation to such important structures as the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the vagus, the glosso- pharyngeal, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves. It lies also suflficiently close to the foramen rotundum for pus to pass from the gland into the skull. The gland is traversed by the external carotid artery, which divides opposite the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. The transverse facial branch of the temporal passes out of the upper part of the gland at its anterior border. The internal maxillary and temporal veins, forming the origin of the external jugular, and a large branch connecting the external jugular vein with the internal jugular, all pass through the gland superficially to the arteries. The facial nerve runs forwards in the sub- stance of the parotid gland, crossing the external carotid artery, and dividing behind the ramus of the jaw into temporo-facial and cervico-facial branches which form the pes anserinus. The direction of the nerve is forwards and down- wards, its situation in the lower third of the gland. The auriculo-temporal branch of the in- ferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve runs upwards with the temporal artery under cover of the parotid, and joins the facial nerve by two branches behind the neck of the condyle. The gland is also supplied by branches of the great auricular nerve and by sympathetic filaments. The duct known as Stensen's or Steno's duct, emerges from the anterior border of the gland at the junction of the upper with the lower two-thirds. It passes over the masseter about a finger's breadth below the zygoma, or, more accurately, along a line drawn from the upper part of the lobule of the ear to the ala of the nose. The duct receives the secretion of the socia parotidis, and at the anterior margin of the masseter it dips through the fat of the cheek and the buccinator muscle. It then runs obliquely through the mucous membrane of the mouth, and opens at some point in a line drawn along the inside of the cheek from the second upper bicuspid to the second molar tooth. The exact point varies in different persons, but the opening is generally marked loy a papilla, and its presence can be demon- strated by the secretion of saliva, which takes place when the patient is made to suck a piece of lemon or other sialogogue. The transverse facial artery lies parallel to the duct upon the masseter muscle, and at some distance above it. A main branch of the facial nerve crosses the duct from above downwards as it lies upon the masseter. The parotid gland is enclosed in a double layer of fascia which forms the parotid sheath, and is derived from the deep cervical fascia. One layer of the fascia is attached to the parotid fossa, the other is ultimately blended with the substance of the gland. The parotid sheath, however, is not absolutely continuous, for it is pierced by the different structures which enter and leave the gland, and it is incomplete behind between the styloid process and the external pterygoid muscle. The parotid sheath, too, varies greatly in strength at different parts. It is most dense over the front of the gland, and least dense between the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. The deeper layer of the capsule is so intimately adherent to the parotid by its interlobular prolongations365 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF that it is almost impossible to remove the gland by the intracapsular method. The outer layer of the capsule, on the other hand, is much less adherent to the parotid fossa, though its adherence varies at different parts; thus it is easily separated subcutaneously, over the mas- seter, near the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, in the submaxillary region and behind the jaw, whilst it is very firmly attached to the neigh- bouring structures along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and at the upper ■ part of the fossa. It is easier, therefore, to \ remove the gland by working behind the two ' layers of the fascia than by exposing the | glandular tissue. Two to six small lymphatic glands lie more or less embedded in the substance of the i parotid gland—the more superficial lie beneath the parotid fascia, immediately in front of the ' tragus ; the remainder are situated more deeply. These glands receive the superficial lymphatic vessels from the upper part of the side of the ; face and the lower eyelid ; the deeper lym- phatics from these parts emptying themselves ' into the lymphatic glands beneath the lower jaw. Injuries Wounds of the parotid gland itself are not of i very great importance unless one of the vessels or nerves running in its substance chance to be ' injured, but wounds of the duct may lead to a very troublesome salivary fistula. The gland is most often wounded from the cheek, but there are a few cases on record where the injurv has been associated with a wound of the mouth or pharynx. The fii-st indication of serious trouble in connection with a wound of the parotid is free hfemorrhage, and the surgeon must decide at once whether it is venous or arterial. Venous haemorrhage, even from the large tmnks runnmg through the parotid, can be stopped by pressure or judicious plugging of the wound ; severe ar- terial bleeding must be treated by operation. The direction and depth of the wound may afford some indication as to the vessel wounded, ' whether it is the vertebral, the internal carotid, the external carotid or some of its branches. If [ possible, the bleeding points should be secured I in the wound itself ; but if this be impracticable, the vertebral or the external carotid should be ligatured, and if necessary a temporary ligature should be placed roimd the common carotid, i When facial paralysis follows a wound of the gland, it becomes a question whether or not an attempt should be made to unite the divided | ends of the portio dura. I should be inclined, ' for my own part, to leave them alone. Extra i pains must always be taken in a wound of the parotid gland to ensure union by first intention. The edges of the incision should be accuratelv united, and the parts should be kept at rest for the first five days by forbidding the patient to talk, and by the administration of such food as will render mastication unnecessary. Stensen's duct is more often wounded by vertical cuts than by those which run parallel to its course. It is more often divided on the masseter, where it is comparatively fixed, than on the buccinator, where it is more movable. It is said that the duct has occasionally been ruptured without any external wound, but the recorded case is capable of another explanation. The open ends of the duct can easily be seen when the cheek is completely divided, but in the more usual incised wounds the nature of the injury is overlooked until the continuous flow of a clear fluid, poured out in increased quantity when the patient eats, enables a dia- gnosis to be made. A salivary fistula is the common result of the accident, but there is no doubt that such wounds occasionally heal with- out the formation of a fistula, and it occasionally happens that the proximal end of the duct be- comes obliterated, and atrophy of the gland results. Stenosis of the injured duct sometimes leads to the formation of a cyst filled with saliva, due to a yielding of the duct wall at the seat of injury, in much the same way as a traumatic aneurysm is produced. The immediate treat- ment consists in carefully suturing the parts, if the woimd is partial; or if it extends completely through the cheek, a fine drainage tube may be introduced from the buccal suz-face through both ends of the duct, whilst the external surface of the wound is carefully sutiured. IXFLAilMATORT CONDITIOXS The parotid gland is liable to all the ordinary forms of inflammation, acute and chronic, primary and secondary. The most common and best known form of acute infective parotitis is " Mumps," which has been considered already in a separate article (vol. vi. p. 473). A chronic inflammation of the gland sometimes begins as a catarrh of Stensen's duct, or of the duct of the socia parotidis, and such an inflammation is described by German pathologists under the term sialodochitis fibriiiosa, whilst the French speak of it as an acute ranula. Mr. Raymond Johnson has called attention to an interesting form which, as only a few lobides of the gland are inflamed, is comparable with the localised inflammations sometimes occurring in the mammary gland. Secondary inflammations of the parotid gland afford material for a very interesting study, as they cannot always be explained by the infective theory of disease. The relationship which exists between the parotid gland and the generative organs has been long known, in consequence of the metastatic inflammation which is often seen in mumps, where orchitis and mastitis, and more doubtfully ovarian inflammation, are recognised complications. A simple injury of the testis, and the introduction of a pessary into the vagina.366 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF have been followed by an inflammation of the parotid gland. Some surgeons believe that parotitis is especially likely to occur after operations on the female generative organs, even when there is no indication of general pytemia. Parotitis is an occasional complication of typhus, relapsing, and enteric fever; more rarely it is a complication of gout. Recurrent swelling of both parotid glands has been noticed in some cases of xerostomia or dry mouth, and these cases give a clue to the cause of the in- flammation in typhoid fever, for the irritation due to the dryness of the mouth extends from the buccal mucous membrane along Stensen's duct to the glandular alveoli. Mr. Stephen Paget has carefully considered the relationship of parotitis to pelvic and abdominal lesions. He believes that cases of parotitis associated with injuries to these parts form a group by themselves, and are not as a rule accompanied by signs of septicaemia or pyaemia. Suppurative parotitis, or parotid bubo, is perhaps the most common and best known form of parotic inflammation next to mumps. It occurs in weakly subjects after childbirth, and as a sequel of erysipelas, typhoid fever, cholera, syphilis, diphtheria, and smallpox. It is a result of mercurial poisoning and of any acute infective inflammation of the gland, or it may start from a boil, from inflammation of the temporo-maxillary joint, or in an osteitis of the lower jaw. The onset of the attack is usually marked by the ordinary symptoms of an acute inflammation, though the commencement may be masked when the patient is suff"ei-ing from a serious illness. The parotid region is swollen, the swelling being hard at first, but becoming oedematous and diff"usely red at a later period. Every movement of the jaw is painful, and the patient can scarcely open his mouth, and has difficulty in swallowing. The swelling attains its maximum about the third or fourth day, and is elastic, but does not fluctuate; it may then undergo resolution, but much more often it suppurates; in rare cases the swelling in- creases rapidly, and the gland becomes gangren- ous. The suppuration occurs quickly, and as the pus is formed beneath the strong capsule of the gland, it burrows in many directions before it points beneath the skin. It may pass down- wards into the chest, upwards into the cavity of the skull, backwards along the phai-ynx, into the middle ear, or into the articulation of the lower jaw. Serious haemorrhage may take place from ulceration of the large vessels run- ning through the gland, or the facial, jugular, and even the cavernous sinus may become thrombosed. Destruction of the facial nerve may lead to an incurable facial paralysis. The treatment is either prophylactic or cura- tive. The prophylactic treatment consists in carefully cleansing the mouth in all cases where it is likely that an infective inflammation may spread to the salivary glands. The curative treatment requires that the presence of pus should be recognised as soon as possible, and that means should be taken immediately to permit of its escape, and to prevent its accumulation under pressure. The pus is evacuated by drawing the gland well forwards, and then making an incision parallel with the main branches of the facial nerve. The scalpel should not be entered behind a line drawn fi-om the front of the condyle to the angle of the lower jaw, lest the external carotid artery be injured, and it should be laid aside altogether as soon as the capsule of the gland has been divided. The operation is completed by passing a pair of dressing forceps into the gland until pus escapes. The incision through the skin, and the opening into the gland, must be of sufficient size to allow the pus to escape freely, and a drainage tube should be inserted to prevent any reaccumulation. The whole region must be well fomented with boracic compresses. Syphilitic and tuberculous inflammations of the parotid have been described, but although they are possible, it seems more likely that the condition described has been due to enlargement of the lymphatic glands which lie in and upon the gland. {See also article " Salivary Glands, Disorders of.") Tumours The tumours of the parotid gland have been very carefully studied hj many observers, for they off'er points of great interest. Like tumours in other parts, they are extrinsic or intrinsic, innocent or malignant, solid and cystic. The extrinsic tumours are those which lie above the capsule of the gland, and may yet be mis- taken for parotid tumours. Sebaceous cysts, dermoids, and enlarged lymphatic glands are the more common forms. Dermoid cysts in the parotid region sometimes present a peculiar modification of their contents, which seems to be almost pure oil instead of the ordinary secretion of the skin. N£evi, cystic lymphangiomata, lipomata, and lymphadenomata also occur in the cheek over the parotid. These tumours are usually bounded by the capsule of the gland, and are thus extrinsic, but they sometimes involve the substance of the gland itself. The true nature of a parotid naevus may be overlooked, as the skin remains unaffected, but they may be removed without dangerous bleeding if the ordinary precautions be taken to arrest haemor- rhage at the time of the operation. The cystic lymphangiomata sometimes show a tendency to disappear spontaneously, but as they are usually large, unsightly, and occur in children, who may thus be prevented from receiving an ordinary school education, I prefer to remove them. Single cysts, formed slowly and filled with aPAROTID GLAND, clear viscid saliva, are found in adults. The wall of the cyst is lined by cylindrical epithelial cells which become tessellated in process of time. The cyst appears to be a dilatation of one of the smaller branches of Stensen's duct. It may be opened, and the epithelial lining- destroyed by the application of a solution of zinc chloride (40 grains to the ounce), or pure carbolic acid, which probably occludes the un- dilated portion of the duct at the same time. Simple puncture gives unsatisfactory results, as it may be followed by the formation of a salivary fistula. The cyst may be dissected out of the gland, but there is some risk of injury to the facial nerve. A second form of cyst, found in connection with the parotid gland, is a dilata- tion of Stensen's duct. It is found in glass- blowers as a result of their occupation, and is best left untreated. Fibromata and myxomata are amongst the rarer innocent tumours of the parotid, but the commonest and best known clinically is the " mixed parotid tumour." These tumours begin to grow in patients between the ages of twenty and thirty. They have no uniform rate of growth, for they sometimes remain stationary for long periods and then increase rapidly; more usually the growth is slow but continuous, until they reach a very large size, as in the case recorded by Mr. Sydney Jones (Tran&. Path. Soc, vol. xxiii., 1872, p. 263), in which the tumour weighed 3 lbs. 14 oz. They retain a rounded outline and feel knobby. The skin over them is normal, except for some venous congestion, and it is movable upon the tumour. The tumour, too, is often movable upon the underlying tissue, and seems much more super- ficial than is really the case. At first there are no functional troubles, but at a later period hearing is diminished, and the facial nerve is paralysed by the pressure exercised by the growth. A guarded prognosis should be given about these tumours. They may at any time begin to grow rapidly without apparent cause, but they do not usually recur after removal. The treatment consists in dissecting them out as soon as possible, and if care be taken, neither the vessels nor the nerve need be injured. Histologically they have given rise to much discussion, but they are placed now amongst the endotheliomata. The tumour, on this theory, is derived from a multiplication of the endothelial cells lining the lymphatics and the capillary blood-vessels. The growth of the endothelial cells fills the lymphatic vessels and spaces with a hyaline substance arranged in a tubular manner, and it is this substance which has been called cartilage, though it has only a superficial resemblance to true hyaline cartilage. Some of the endothelial cells may develop into, or, perhaps more properly, are replaced by fibrous tissue by the same process which gives rise to adhesions in the interior of diseased I, DISORDERS OF 367 joints, whilst other cells undergo mucoid de- generation. New blood - channels may be formed in the endothelium derived from the blood-vessels, and the tumour may thus possess in parts a nsevoid or angiomatous character. Pure chondromata of the parotid are found occasionally as slowly-growing tumours which contain true hyaline cartilage. The malignant tumours of the parotid are either sarcomata or carcinomata, but they are not very common, and most of the recorded cases may be referred to the class of endothelio- mata. True sarcomata are rare. They are either spindled-celled, solid, or cystic, or they are melanotic. The spindle-celled sarcomata are often circumscribed at first, and do not involve the lymphatic glands. The melanotic sarcomata grow rapidly, invade the neighbour- ing lymphatic glands, and soon involve the whole parotid. The carcinomata are either primary, when they begin in the gland itself, or they are secondary to cancer of the pharynx, face, cheek, conjunctiva, or lower jaw. The primary cancers are described as being either scirrhus or encephaloid, the secondary as epitheliomata of the tubular or scaly variety; but it is doubt- ful whether such a classification can be any longer upheld. Malignant disease of the parotid in many cases is readily distinguishable from the innocent tumours. In malignant disease the growth is more rapid, and speedily infiltrates the surrounding tissues, so that it is fixed. The lymphatic glands are enlarged, the skin becomes infiltrated, and if the growth is allowed to continue it fungates and bleeds. Facial paralysis occurs early, and the unhappy patient suffers from severe neuralgic pain. Mr. Butlin lays particular emphasis on the facial paralysis, for he says that, if the nature of the tumour is doubtful and the facial paralysis is well marked, he is inclined to consider the tumour as malignant, the paralysis being due to the implication of the nerve in the growth and not to pressure alone. A soft growth, too, is more likely to be malignant than one which is hard. The prognosis of malignant disease of the parotid is grave. Early diagnosis with speedy removal of the tumour gives the patient a slender chance of recovery. The parotid is best separated from its attachments by dissect- ing it out from above and in front, and after- wards by approaching the fossa behind the jaw, also from above and in front. Each vessel should be clamped in two places before it is divided, and no attempt should be made to save the facial nerve. The operation must be as thorough as possible, for an incomplete removal is often followed by so rapid a growth of the part left behind that the surgeon seems to have done harm rather than good by his operation.368 PAROTID GLAND, DISORDERS OF Fistula Parotid fistulse occur in connection with the gland or the duct. They may follow a wound in the parotid region, the opening of a parotid abscess, tuberculous, or more rarely syphilitic ulceration, inflammation due to the presence of a calculus or suppiii-atiou connected with necrosis of the jaw. The orifice of the fistula is generally very small, and the skin around it is healthy. A clear alkaline fluid trickles from it, the quantity increasing during mastication. It is said that this fluid can be distinguished from the fluid flowing from a lymphatic fistula by the addition of a few drops of perchloride of iron, when a blood-red colour is apparent in the case of saliva, owing to the presence of sulphocyanide of potassium. Parotid fistulse, like fistulse of other parts of the alimentary tract, usually close spontaneously, unless there is some obstruction in Stensen's duct. The treatment varies according to the position of the fistula. When the opening is sitiiated over the gland, and there is no stricture of the duct, the edges may be refreshed and united by a silkworm-gut suture. But when the parotid duct is narrowed or occluded more extensive operations are required. The diict may be dilated by passing a cat-gut bougie from the mouth, the distal portion of the canal may be laid open inside the cheek, or an attempt may be made to form a new duct. Parotitis or Parotiditis.—Inflam- mation of the parotid gland {q.v.). Parovarium.—The organ of Rosen- miiller, lying in the broad ligament between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. See Generation, Female Organs of {Parovarium); Broad Liga- ments, Diseases op {Tumours) ; Fallopian Tubes {Tumours, etc.) ; Fluids, Examination OF Pathological {Parovaria7i Cysts); Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumours, Diagnosis). Paroxysmal.—Occurring in paroxysms or subject to periodic exacerbations or attacks ; e.g. paroxysmal cough {see Cough, Periodical), paroxysmal hoematuria {see Hematuria, Parox- ysmal), paroxysmal hcemoglobinuria {see Hemo- globinuria, Paroxysmal ; Raynaud's Disease, Complications), paroxysmal sneezing {see Nose, Nasal Neuroses, Paroxysmal Sneezing), and paroxysmal tachycardia {see Heart, Neuroses OF, Tachycardia). Parrisll'S Food.—A tonic syrup con- taining iron, lime, phosphates, etc., given in doses of ^ to 2 fl. dr., and corresponding roughly to the Syrupus Ferri Phosphatis Com- positus of the B.P. Conference. See Ferrum. Parrot's Disease.—Asyphiliticpseudo- paralysis of the limbs seen in new-born infants, and due to separation of the epiphysis of the long bones from the diaphysis ; the name Parrot's Atrophy is given to primary infantile atrophy or athrepsia. See Syphilis {Hereditary, in Children) ; Atrophy, Infantile. Parrot's IVodes.—Periostitic swellings on the bones of the cranium, occurring in syphi- litic infants and giving rise to the natiform skull. See Syphilis {Hereditary, in Children). Parrot's Sig^n.—Dilatation of the pupil (in cases of meningitis) when the skin is pinched. Parrot's Ulcer.—The patches of para- sitic stomatitis or thrush. See Stomatitis, Parasitic. Parry's Disease. — Exophthalmic goitre or Grave's disease. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre). Pars.—A part, as in anatomical nomen- clature in such terms as pars memhranacea septi, pars ciliaris retince {see Iris and Ciliary Bodies, Anatomy), pars intermedia, etc. Parthenogenesis.—The development of an organism from an ovum which has not been impregnated (Gr. vapBivo^, a virgin, yei/eo-ig, birth); the origin of dermoid tumours of the ovary has been explained by this hypothesis. See Ovaries, Diseases of {Dermoid Cysts). Partridge's Hernia.—Hernia, of the femoral type, occurring external to the femoral vessels. Parturient. — In labour, or associated with labour (parturition); e.g. the parturient canal, consisting of the vulva, vagina, cervix, and lower uterine segment. See Labour, Physi- ology OF {Factors, Passages); Labour, Diagnosis AND Mechanism ; Labour, Management of ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Passages); etc. Parturition. See Labour atid its sec- tio7is and cross-references. See also Midwifery and Obstetrics and cross-references; Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor ; Pregnancy ; Puerperium. Partus.—Labour or childbirth, as in such terms as partus difficilis (difficult labour or dystocia), partus proecipitatus (rapid or pre- cipitate labour), and partus siccus (dry labour). Passage. — A canal or channel {e.g. urethra, rectum, etc.), or the introduction of an instrument (bougie, sound, etc.) into such a canal or channel. Passenger. — The term applied to the products of conception (foetus, placenta, etc.) during their passage through the genital tract in labour. See Labour, Physiology ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism.PASSIO OR PASSION 369 PaSSiO or Pa.SSion. — Intense mental emotion or action, e.g. the passio cadivia (epi- lepsy) and the passio hysterica (hysteria) ; or great suffering, e.g. the iliac passion (volvnlus). Pa.SSUg'g'. See Balneology {Switzerland, Alkaline Waters). Paste.—In pharmacy, an ointment-like substance to be applied locally ; e.g. Vienna paste (caustic potash and caustic lime and water), Canquoin's paste (zinc chloride, flour, and water), etc. Pasteurisation. — The rendering of milk innocuous by raising it to a temperature of 155° to 165° F. and keeping it at that heat for twenty or thirty minutes. See Infant- Feeding {Artificial Feeding, Milh). Pasteur's Treatment or Pas- teurism. *S'ee Rabies {Treatment, Curative). Pastille or PastillUS.—A small medi- cated lozenge having glyco-gelatin as a basis. See Pharynx, Chronic Pharyngitis {Treatment, Local). Patag^ium.—The web of skin or web- like expansion which passes from the upper limb to the neck or chest in some cases of defective development, or between other parts of the body (between the lower limbs in sym- podia) ; it may be due to amniotic pressure or adhesion in antenatal life. See Ballantyne's Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii., "The Embryo." Patch.—An irregular spot or area of the skin, or of a mucous membrane or other surface, marked off from the surrounding parts by a difference in colour, consistence, etc.; e.g. the mucous patches of syphilis, the Peyerian patches of the small intestine, etc. Patella. —The knee-cap or knee-pan, a small, flattened, sesamoid bone lying in front of the knee-joint. See Knee-Joint, Diseases of {Congenital Dislocation of Patella, Fracture of Patella, Dislocation of Patella, etc.); Syphilis {Tertiary, Inflammation of the Bursa Patellae). Patellar Reflex. See Tendon Jerks; Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology, Reflexes). Patent. — Open, not ^ obstructed (Lat. patere, to be open), e.g. a patent foramen ovale or ductus arteriosus, etc. »S'ee (Heart, Congeni- tal Malformations of. Pat he ma.—Suffering; disease of body or mind (Gr. Tra^os, suffering). Pathetic. — Causing pity or indicating sorrow; thus, in anatomy, the fourth cranial nerve is called patheticus, and it supplies the superior oblique muscle of the eye {M. patheti- VOL. VII cus), which, it is said, so turns the eyeV)all as to express suffering. Pathetism. See Hypnotism. PathO-.—In compound words patlio- (Gr. TrdOo';, suftering, disease) means relating to suffering, disease, morbid change, or the like ; e.g. jmthocratia (holding the passions under con- trol, or self-restraint), pathoctonus (killing the passions, self-control), pathophohia (fear of dis- ease, hypochondriasis), pathophoric (conveying disease), etc. PathOg'enesiS. — The development of disease ; it is distinguished from etiology (the causation of disease) by taking into account the exact way in which the morbid cause acts in producing the disease ; therefore bacteria which are believed to initiate and set up morbid pro- cesses are called pathogenic. Pathognomonic.—-Characteristic of a special malady, e.g. a symptom or sign so distinctive as to warrant the diagnosis of a definite disease to be made (Gr. -n-dOos, disease, yvmfJiwv, a judge). Pa.tholOg'y. — The branch of medicine which deals with the causes of disease and with the structural changes produced by disease; it is also concerned with morbid states which do not, so far as is known, produce actual changes in the tissues. See under various headings, such as Insanity, Pathology of ; Labour, Pathology of ; Pregnancy, Pathology of ; etc. (Almost all the long articles contain a patho- logical portion or reference.) Patient.—One suffering from a disease, or, more particularly, a person undergoing treatment for a disease, or an inmate of a hospital or asylum. Paul's Sigfn.—A physical sign found in cases of adherent pericardium, and consisting in a feeble apex beat with forcible impulse over the body of the heart. Pavilion.—A tent-shaped structure, e.g. the abdominal end of the Fallopian tube, and the auricle of the ear. Pavitation.—A state of trembling fear. Pavor Nocturnus. See Night Terrors. Pavy'S Disease. — Intermittent albu- minuria. Pawllk'S Folds.—The anterior columns of the vagina which mark off a triangular space {Pawlik's Triangle) which corresponds to the trigone of the bladder. Paxton'S Disease. — Tinea nodosa. See Skin, Parasites {Tinea Nodosa). 24PEARL 370 Pe£irl.—In pathology, the term pearl is applied to concentric masses of epithelial cells, and, in pharmacy, to the small glass capsules containing liquid volatile drugs such as amyl nitrite ; " pearly tumours " are cholesteatomata. Pea,S. See Physiology, Food and Di- gestion (Vegetable Food-Stuffs, Legtimens). Peat Baths. See Balneology {Peat and Mud Baths). Pebrine.—An epidemic disease affecting silkworms. Pecquet'S Duct.—The thoracic duct; the receptaculum chyli is sometimes called the reservoir of Pecquet, so named after Joannes Pecquet (born 1622, died 1674). Pectineus Muscle. See Spine, Sur GiCAL Affections of {Injuries of Lumbar Plexus). Pectoral.—Relating to the chest (Lat. pectus, chest). PectoraliS Muscle. See Muscles, Diseases of {Congenital Absence); Muscles, Traumatic Affections of {Rupture). Pectoriloquy.—The distinct transmis- sion of speech sounds to the ear of the examiner who is listening with stethoscope applied to the chest wall, e.g. over pulmonary cavities or areas of condensation (in proximity to a large bronchus). See Lung, Tuberculosis of {Physi- cal Signs, Vomica Formation); Pneumonia, Clinical {Physical Signs, Red Hepatisation). Pederasty.—A form of unnatural sexual connection {per anum), sodomy (Gr. Trats, a boy, ipaa-T^^, lover). Pediatrics.—The study of the diseases of children. See Children and cross-references ; Infancy' and Infant and cross-references; New- born Infant ; etc. Pedicle.—A small stalk or narrow neck of connection, e.g. the attachment of a tumour; a peduncle. See Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumoihrs, Pedicle); Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Ovarian and Uterine Tumours, Tivisting of Peduncle); Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours OF {Polypi). PediCUlophobia.—A morbid dread of lice {pediculi). Pediculosis. Introductory ..... 370 Classification— Pediculosis Capitis . . .371 Pediculosis Corporis . . .372 „ Pubis .... 373 The terms pediculosis and phthiriasis are now used in a general way for the symptoms pro- duced by lice, whether of head, body, or pubes, although when employed without qualification they are taken as applying to the body-louse. Manner of Feeding. — There has been a good deal of discussion as to the manner in which the louse attacks the skin. Schmarda, Kaposi, and others hold that the insect first bites with its mandibles and then sucks up the blood. Schi0dte, a Danish naturalist, who investigated the matter, says it has no mandibles or other means of biting, but only a sucking apparatus which it protrudes at pleasure. On this point modern observers have been anticipated by Swammerdam and Leeuwenhoek, who worked out the insect's anatomy. According to Leeu- wenhoek, whose plates are worth looking at, the body-louse first protrudes a sheath (proboscis or haustellum) continuous with the gullet. This sheath is provided with a "piercer," which is introduced between the epidermic scales to puncture a blood-vessel lying underneath. The more readily to do this the louse places itself on its head. Blood passes with a swift motion into the body, where it is incessantly driven backwards and forwards, as any one will have observed who has examined a pediculus cor- poris gorged with blood after a meal. Leeuwen- hoek points out that these rapid movements prevent the coagulation of the blood, an occur- rence which would be fatal to the animal. Swammerdam and Schi0dte state that the louse attacks a sweat-pore. Schi0dte showed that the haustellum was provided with four short threads, which by approximation formed the piercing apparatus. In his figure red blood cor- puscles are represented in situ in the haustellum. Classification. — Zoologically lice are insects (six legs), and classed among the Hemiptera, sub-order Anoplura (Aptera). According to M'Lachlan, some writers do not consider them true insects. They do not undergo metamor- phosis, but develop directly from the ovum or nit. This absence of metamorphosis, I think, can be accounted for by the parasitic life of the animal on the surface of the skin. To survive, it is important it should reproduce qviickly and in numbers, so that the intermediate stages have been in the long run missed out. Its life on man, too, makes it independent of seasons and difficulties as to food-supply. Variation in Colour.—It is said that lice vary in colour according to the host:—Grey in Europeans, black in negroes, yellowish-brown in the Chinese, and white in Esquimaux. A. Murray of Edinburgh, who examined lice col- lected in various countries from the different races of man, found they differed not only in colour, but also in the structure of the claws and limbs. Possibly this variation in hue is an instance of protective coloration. Three kinds of pediculi are recognised as parasitic on man. They are named after the part of the body they infest, viz. :—Pediculus371 PEDICULOSIS capitis, pediculus corporis, and pediculus pubis. With regard to the last-named, Leach places it in a separate genus, under the name of Phthirius inguinalis, a distinction which meets with the approval of Chatin. As to Alt's pediculus tabes- centium, or distemper louse, it is not a separate species, as it has been identified as the pediculus corporis (Glaus). Anatomy of the Pediculi.—The chief anatomi- cal points of the three kinds are as follows :— Pediculus capitis {le pou de tete, die Kopjlaus). —The female head-louse is from 2 to 2'5 mm. long, by 1 mm. broad. The male is smaller (about 1'5 mm. long), and it is found in mnch smaller numbers. The head of the pediculus capitis is triangular. The female has the last abdominal segment notched at its extremity and on its ventral surface, the vaginal orifice being placed in the latter situation. The last segment is rounded in the male, and bears the penis on its dorsal surface. In copula- tion the female is, therefore, on the back of the male. The ova or " nits " are deposited on the hairs, to which they are firmly attached by means of a cement substance. They are provided with a Kd or operculum at the free end. A number of them may be found on one hair, the lowest nit being the one first deposited and the first to hatch out ; but as a rule there is only one nit on a hair. Aristotle thought nothing was produced from the nits. The period of incubation is six days, and in some fourteen days after hatching out the animal is fully developed. Pediculus corporis [le pou du corps, die Lei- blaus, die Kleiderlaus, pediculus vestimentorum, tailor's louse).—The body-louse is very like the head-louse, only that it is larger, attaining to 3 mm. in length by 1 to 1*5 mm. in breadth, has a rather more oval head and more powerful legs, provided with larger claws. The nits may be deposited on the small hairs of the skin as well as in the clothes, a fact mentioned in Rees's Cyclopaedia, but apparently quite lost sight of until Allan Jamieson called attention to this important point. The body-louse is very prolific. Leeuwenhoek calculated, from a quaint experiment on himself, that two females might in eight weeks produce as many as 10,000 descendants. Pedicuhis pubis [Phthirius inguinalis, Le pou d%t pubis, le morpion, die Fihlaus).—This louse differs very much from the two previous ones, and its popular name, crab-louse, is not at all a bad one. As a whole it is much broader and flatter, with a rounded head, provided with prominent eyes. The thorax and abdomen are not sharply divided off. The anterior pair of legs differ from the two posterior pairs, in that the latter are armed with strongly curved claws, with which the animal firmly anchors itself. The nits are deposited on the hairs. The young hatch out in a week, and reach maturity in two weeks. The symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment will now be discussed. Pediculosis Capitis Symptoms.—The presence of the parasite in the head gives rise to great irritation, which leads to scratching, with the production of ex- coriations and pustular lesions. The latter are the result of the planting out of the staphylo- coccus by the nails, leading to impetigo con- tagiosa, which is not limited to the scalp, but may be found scattered about the face and body beyond the base of operations of the pediculus. The occipital region is the part most affected, and here the hair becomes sticky and matted together. The neighbouring glands are often enlarged, tender, and inflamed, as a result of the local pus irritation ; they may even sup- purate in bad, neglected cases. This glandular enlargement is usually the symptom upon which the mother of the child insists as the primary one, the pediculi being considered as the effect rather than the cause in accordance with the old superstition of spontaneous generation. Besides, it is a comforting theory, which absolves the mother from neglect. When the hair is worn long, scratch-marks and pus lesions may be found about the neck and the upper part of the back, although the pediculi are only present in the scalp. It is said they may sometimes be found in the beard. Plica polonica was thought at one time to be a special disease of the hair. It is really very chronic, neglected pediculosis capitis, in which the hair becomes matted together from pus and filth. Diagnosis. — In the case of children with pustular lesions at the back of the head, ten to one it is pediculosis capitis. This can be con- firmed by examination, with a lens if necessary, when the nits will be readily seen. They are adherent to the hairs, and can be readily dis- tinguished from epidermic scales. The pedi- culus itself may be discovered, but the presence of nits is quite sufficient to clinch the matter, and will serve to differentiate the condition from simple impetigo contagiosa. The same applies to adults with irritation about the back of the head. Treatment.—Where it is not imperative to preserve the hair, as in most children, it should be cut off close, thus getting rid of the adherent nits. The crusts must be softened with oil and picked off" (the latter is an important direction), and the following ointment smeared on four or five times a day :—Hydrarg. amnion, gr. x, ol. olivte Tr^x, adipis gj. In this way the pus cocci and pediculi are destroyed. Where the hair cannot very well be cut off", in women and some children, it should be372 PEDICULOSIS sponged with a carbolic acid lotion, 1 in 40, as follows:—A small portion of the hair is taken up with one hand, and a sponge soaked in the lotion drawn along it with the other, so as to thoro\ighly come into contact with the nits, and so on until the whole of the hair has been dealt with ; or the hair may be spread out on a table, the patient sitting on a stool. The nits can then be combed out. Simultaneously the ung. hydrarg. ammon. dil. is used as already de- scribed. Acetic acid or vinegar is also good for getting rid of the nits. Ordinary petroleum lamp-oil is very effectual, soaked freely into the head, the above ointment being used for the crusted lesions. The draw- backs of petroleum are its smell and its inflam- mability. The latter is a very real danger. It should, therefore, never be applied in proximity to a lighted lamp, etc. It is safest to apply it during the daytime. Oily bodies kill lice by obstructing the tracheae, and thus preventing respiration. Other remedies are used, but the above treat- ment properly carried out will cure the condi- tion. Le mieux est quelque fois I'ennemi du bien. Pediculosis Corporis vel vbstimentorum This disease is usually observed in the old, neglected, badly nourished, and cachetic. It is frequently contracted in common lodging-houses by people who have come down in the world; in some cases by sharing an old person's bed. Symptoms.—Although this pediculus inhabits the clothes, it feeds on the skin, and in this way occasions great irritation and much scratching of the parts within reach of the nails. The pediculus prefers the neighbourhood of the neck-band of the underclothing, probably to get a better supply of air, and it is about the back of the neck and the shoulders that the scratching is most marked. In chronic cases, such as are to be seen in poor-law infirmaries, the constant irritation and scratching leads to pigmentation, which may be very extensive and deep in colour, with thickening of the skin, the so-called " vagabond's disease," common among tramps. The pruritic sensations are worse at night, and once started, may reflexly involve any part of the body. Urticaria, pus inoculation, furuncles, and even abscesses, are the complications met with. Pyrexia has sometimes been observed (as high as 106•4°), and Payne thinks this may be due to a poison inserted by the insect. Diagnosis. — The chief points are the age and appearance of the patient, and the distribution of the scratch - marks about the neck and shoulders. An examination of the under-linen, especially about the neck-band, will reveal the pediculus, unless the vest or shirt is a clean one put on for the occasion. Tilbury Fox insisted on the importance of the minute hsemorrhagic speck which occurred on the skin as a result of the insect's mode of feeding. Radclifl"e-Crocker is inclined to think it is only the excrement of the insect, a very likely thing, considering it feeds on blo(jd, and that when it sucks up its meal the fluid is driven about with such force as to press out the contents of the lower bowel. Dubreuilh and Beille state they have never been able to see this " hajmorrhagic speck." Differential Diagnosis.—This is a matter of some importance, as there is a condition known as pruritus senilis, associated with degenerative changes of the skin, which might lead to difficulty ; but in such cases little is to be seen about the skin in the way of scratch-marks. To avoid errors, every case should be taken on its merits, and the positive signs of pediculosis relied upon. Pruritus of the body may be a marked symptom in some morbid nerve con- ditions, such as locomotor ataxy, and also in chronic opium-eaters. When pigmentation of the skin is present in a marked degree, the question of Addison's disease may arise. Greenhow, Besnier, and Thibierge have seen the mucous membranes pigmented in so-called "vagabond's disease," a point which must be borne in mind, and which favours Besnier's view that the pigmenta- tion is not due to scratching. Urticaria may be due to a variety of causes, one of which is pediculosis, which would have to be excluded. Where there is doubt, the urine should be examined for albumin and sugar, and the alimentary tract overhauled. When the scratching has been vigorous and chronic the patient may present pigmentation, supei'ficial scarring, and scattered crusted sores from pus inoculation, so as to suggest syphilis to some minds. The absence of the confirmatory signs of the latter, with positive signs of pedi- culosis, would clinch the diagnosis. Of course, syphilis and parasites may be associated. In the same way, scabies may be a complica- tion. The itch difi"ers from pediculosis in the localisation and distribution of the scratch- marks ; in the former the hands and wrists are usually affected {vide "Scabies"). In some instances patients fancy they have pediculi. This condition of mind is a pediculo- phobia, compai'able with what is observed in syphilophobes. It is very difficult to convince them that no parasites are present. Exception- ally, the mental attitude may become stereo- typed, a pediculosis cerebri, with delusions, and sometimes ideas of persecution. In one case there were auditory hallucinations. The patient heard voices saying he was lousy. These cases generally end in the madhouse. In other instances, again, a patient may have been delivered from the parasites, but will remain convinced that he still has them. These cases also may drift into a pediculosis cerebri condition.373 PEDICULOSIS Treatment.—The first step is to treat the bed and body clothes, either by baking them in a disinfecting apparatus at 212° F. or over, or where this cannot be carried out, by thoroughly boiling them in the copper. The patient must next be attended to, and in most cases half a dozen alkaline baths (gij or more of bicarbonate of soda to 30 gallons) to allay the irritability of the skin, soap and water cleanliness, and ung. staphisagrise to rub into the neck where the neck-band comes into contact, will suffice to effect a cure. In obstinate recurrent conditions the fact that nits are deposited on the lanugo hairs of the skin, as observed by Allan Jamieson, must not be forgotten. Here rubbing in paraffin over the whole body, followed by a warm carbolic acid bath (gss to 30 gallons), as he recommends, is necessary to get rid of the parasites. The wearing of sulphur bags next to the skin has also been found useful. Where the patient is much run down from privations general treatment must be added to improve the nutrition and tone. Pediculophobia and pediculosis cerebri cases are very difficult to deal with. The patients should be listened to, and every effort made to convince them of their mistaken notions. Where delusions and hallucinations exist the prognosis is bad, and such cases are for the alienist. Pediculosis Pubis This is in most cases the result of impure sexual intercourse, but it may be quite in- nocently contracted from infected bedding and so forth. This kind of pediculosis is more frequently observed among the better classes than the other two. Symptoms.—Irritation about the pubic region leads to scratching, especially at night. But as the pediculus may extend its operations to the hairs of the abdomen, chest, axilke, etc., the scratching may be generalised. In a hairy man of about sixty-five I found the insect not only about the pubes, but on the abdomen, chest, shins, and in the axillfe and beard, but not on the scalp. Heisler has recorded the case of a child of fourteen months, in which the scalp was involved, and Trouessart another in an infant of five months. In both cases the disease had been contracted from the nurse. In Heisler's case the eyelashes were also affected. Grindon has observed the pediculus pubis in the scalp in several members of a family. In some cases a marked papular eruption about the pubes and adjacent parts is present. When irritant applications have been used there may be a severe dermatitis, eczematous in appearance, which may become widespread. Maculae ccerulece {taches ombrees), first de- scribed by Morrison, have been observed in the affected regions. They are bluish-grey stains in the skin, about the size of a finger-nail. Duguet has shown that the pigment was con- tained in a pair of glands situated in the thoracic region opposite the second pair of legs of the insect. The subject has also been investigated by Payne, who has observed pyrexia in connection with the pediculus pubis. Jamieson thinks the stains have some ansesthetic effect. Does the insect anaesthetise the spot it is about to feed on ? Diagnosis. — The possibility of pediculosis pubis should always be borne in mind whenever there is itching about the pubes and scratched papules are scattered about this region. If the insect be present, a search for it or the nits will be rewarded. As a rule, there is little difficulty in coming to a definite conclusion. Sometimes patients have used irritant oint- ments, and will seek advice for the dermatitis, saying nothing about the pediculi. The true state of affairs may therefore be masked, and a careful examination necessary. The maculcB caerulece, if present, will help, but they require looking for. In hairy persons other parts of the body should be examined. The patients are usually young men, but neither age nor sex can be excluded. Oppenheim has recently drawn further atten- tion to a green colouring matter found in the crab-louse. Where the maculse caerule^ were marked he found that all the mature lice con- tained this colouring matter in large quantities, the parasite appearing diffusely green. The impregnated females showed the pigment most; young individuals were always devoid of it. There is no corresponding colouring matter in head and body lice. T^-eatment.—A favourite remedy used to be ung. hydrarg., but it has sometimes led to such severe dermatitis, to say nothing of the possi- bility of salivation in susceptible subjects, that it is now discarded. The pediculi can be got rid of by less drastic measures. Various ointments may be used, such as : Naphthol P oss, cret. preep. 3ss, adipis ad sj ; or balsam. Peruviani, adipis, aa 3ss. Lotions of carbolic acid 1 in 40, or of perchloride of mei-cury 1 in 500, are useful (the latter carefully applied), the former to destroy the nits, as in pediculosis capitis. Eau de Cologne freely dabbed on will frequently do all that is required. Of course, where a patient comes with a severe dermatitis, this condition must be treated by means of soothing applications, such as lini- mentum calaminse (calaminse prsep. giss, zinci oxidi 3j, ol. olivse, aq. calcis aa giv), or a lead lotion (glycer. plumbi subacetatis §j, aq. dest. ad. §viij). In ordinary cases, when the insects have been got rid of, a soothing lotion is sometimes neces- sary, such as calaminse prsep. giss, zinci oxidi 5j, glycerini 3iij, aq. ros. ad §viij, dabbed on and allowed to dry.374 PEDICULOSIS As in pediculosis corporis, patients, although cured, will get the crab-louse on the brain. In a case under my care, an elderly man, he turned up for some time with bits of dirty wool, scales, etc. carefully wrapped up in paper, under the impression they were pediculi. Even when these objects were placed under the microscope he was but half convinced. Pediculosis cerebri may also occur in such cases, and require care- ful management. The patient's tales should be listened to, and means taken to convince him of his error, if possible; but it is, as a rule, a hopeless task. The pubic hairs should not be cut, for the pressure of the clothes produces great irritation imtil the hair has become curled—a fact well exemplified after operations for hernia, etc., when the pubic hairs have been shaved. Pediculus. See Pediculosis. Pedicurei—A chiropodist (Lat. pes, foot, cura, care). Peduncle. See Pedicle. Peena,Sh>—An Indian term for parasites in the nose; myiasis narium. See Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites). Pelclda,.—A disease, resembling pellagra (q.v.), caused by eating infected maize; also, alopecia areata. Pelia.S. See Snake-Bites {Pelias, Common Adder-). Pela.g'in.—A proprietary preparation re- commended for sea-sickness. PeliOITI£l.—A livid spot (tache hleudtre of the French) due to the irritation of pediculi, to purpura, to rheumatism, etc. PeliOSiS Rheumatica. See Purpura {Arthritic); Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms, Cutaneous Manifestations, Purpura). Pellag^ra. Definition ...... 374 Geographical Distribution . . . 374 Causes 374 Morbid Anatomy ..... 377 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . 378 Prophylaxis and Treatment . . . 378 See also Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease {Diagnosis); Insanity, Etiology of {Exotocic Causes, Pellagra) ; Insanity, Nature and Symp- toms {Etiological Varieties); Nails, Affections op {Intoxications); Toxicology {Poisoning by Vegetable Foods, Maize). Definition. — A chronic endemic, non-conta- gious, cerebro-spinal disease of poverty-stricken peasants, induced by the toxic action of diseased maize. It produces changes in the spinal cord, stomach, and intestines; sometimes ends in dementia; and causes, chiefly in the spring months, an eruption on those parts of the skin exposed to the sun. The name is taken from the Italian "pelle," skin, and ^^agra," rough. Synonyms.—Malatia della miseria, Mai del sole, Malatia delV insolato di primavera, etc. In Egypt it is called " Qushuf," meaning chap- ping or roughness. History.—Pellegra has been known in Spain since 1735, following on the introduction of maize from America about 1700. About 1750 it was found in Italy, about 1820 in France, and towards 1840 in Roumania. Since 1856 it has been epidemic in Corfu, and of later years has been reported from Hungary (1888), Russia, Portugal, Egypt (1893), and other countries. Geographical Distribution.—In Europe it is known in Northern Spain, Northern Portugal, the south-west of France, Northern and Middle Italy, South Tyrol, parts of Austria-Hungary, Roumania, Bessarabia, and Corfu. From Asia it has not yet been reported, but many medical officers have recognised my photographs as a disease occurring among out-patients in India. In Africa it is common in Lower Egypt; rare in Upper Egypt, the Red Sea coast, and in Algiers. It has not been reported from South Africa, but I saw two cases there among the coloured lunatics on Robben Island in 1900. In America it exists in Mexico, the original home of maize, but is not known in the United States, where the poorest coloured folk live more luxuri- ously than the peasants of Italy or Egypt. It has not been found in Australia yet, but Dr. Neiret has reported it from the island of New Caledonia. It probably exists in every country where the poorest peasants live habitually on diseased maize. Causes. — Pellegra, analogous to ptomaine poisoning, is a chronic intoxication due to eating damaged maize or Indian corn {Zea Mays). Healthy maize, eaten as the chief article of diet, does not produce disease in men or poultry, and, as it contains almost the same percentage of nitrogenous matter as soft wheat and four times as much fatty matter, it stands in a high position as human food, and is more widely cultivated than any other cereal. Townspeople in maize- growing countries who buy their food in the market and vary it with other articles of diet never develop pellagra. In the same way, well-to-do agriculturists and their families and servants eat healthy maize almost daily and never suffer from the disease ; but the poorest peasant, who lives from hand to mouth, and either has the habit of buying the cheapest maize in the market, or sells the best of his own crop and keeps the worst cobs for home con- sumption, becomes in time an easy victim. Poverty, overwork, and miserable surround-PELLAGRA 375 ings are all predisposing factors, but are not sufficient in themselves to produce pellagra, which is not an accompaniment of potato disease in Ireland or rice famine in India. As an addi- tional proof that maize is a necessary factor I may mention that the poorest peasant of Lower Egypt becomes pellagrous because he lives on bad maize, while the equally poor inhabitant of Upper Egypt or the Soudan, living under similar conditions, daily eats millet {Sorghum vulgare), and escapes pellagra. Experiments upon dogs, hares, poultry, and men have shown that pella- grous symptoms can be produced by feeding them with damaged maize or with an alcoholic extract prepared from it. In Italy pellagra was long thought to be hereditary, but its early appearance in that country is probably due to the habit among the peasant women of giving maize "polenta" to children while still at the breast. Both sexes and all ages and races may contract it. Although we do not yet know what the toxin is, or whether the cause of the intoxication is an epiphyte growing on the cob or in the flour, we know that damp is one of the essentials for producing spoilt maize. It is cut before being ripe, or exposed to rain or dew, or stored away in damp, dark cellars, unprotected in any way from the earth below. Sometimes it is even stored in its sheath, when it is almost impossible for the grain to get thoroughly dry, and some- times it is grown from seed already diseased or partially eaten by weevils. In Italy it is thought that it is unwise to grow any species of maize which ripens quickly or ripens during the early autumn months, and it is noticed that pellagra is more apt to be rife after a rainy summer, or after the failure of the crop the year before. It has diminished in Italy since the introduction of improvements in dry- ing and storing the grain. Symptoms.—It is impossible to fix any incuba- tion period, and the course of the disease, if unchecked, must be put down rather vaguely as from five years to fifteen or even twenty. The premonitory symptoms are giddiness, anaemia, failing appetite, general debility, and indefinite pains. When the disease is once established the symptoms can be conveniently divided into those affecting: (1) the skin, (2) digestive system, (3) spinal cord, and (4) brain. The skin eruptions, although the least im- portant of the various symptoms, have given the disease its name, and have always received an undue amount of attention. They usually appear for the first time during the spring months because the ultra-violet rays of the sun are then especially strong. They die gradually away during the summer, so that only traces can be found in the autumn and winter, but in the spring (and occasionally also in the autumn) they return with redoubled vigour. An erythema not unlike a severe sun- burn is first seen, with swelling and tension of the skin for a few days. Later there is, in severe cases, a real dermatitis producing hyper- trophy with a gradual loss of elasticity. It is not usually till the second spring that the dermatitis is so extensive as to lead to pro- nounced exfoliation, but when this is present we have a very characteristic picture. The epidermis slowly falls off in flakes dis- coloured grey or brown, leaving a clean surface behind, sometimes in the form of small patches, but more often as striae. Every year the erythema leaves a little more pigment and thickening behind it, until a chronic atrophy takes place, marking out the place where the eruption has been. The affected skin then looks wrinkled like the hand or neck of a man eighty years old, though the healthy skin in the neighbourhood is still plump and elastic. Early cases complain of burning or tingling in the skin, but later ones only suffer from itching. In advanced cases there is sometimes a curious ichthyotic mottling which seems to be the legacy of many attacks of exfoliating inflam- mation of the skin, with a deposit of pigment and atrophy of both skin and subcutaneous tissue. The eruption is essentially dry, and bullae on the extremities are very rare. The site of the rash is limited only by the patient's clothing. European adults working in the fields get it chiefly on the face, neck, ears, and hands. Those who habitually work with the forearms exposed get it there, those without sleeves have the upper arms affected in addition, and barefooted children are attacked in the dorsum of the feet and legs. The Egyptian peasant wears fewer clothes and works in a stronger sun, and therefore gets more eruption. If he works in the fields wearing nothing but a pair of short drawers, all the exposed portions of the body will be affected. But even in Egypt the parts earliest attacked with erythema are the hands and foi'earms, elbows, feet, insteps, legs and knees, and upper part of the chest. In all countries the rash shows a marked pre- ference for the dorsal aspects of the upper and lower limbs, only creeping rovmd to the flexor side as the case becomes chronic, and never involving the ham, axilla, bend of the elbows, palms, and soles. The dorsal aspect of the middle phalanx of the fingers is affected in long-standing cases, but the ungual phalanx is only rarely involved. The nails and hair are always unaffected. Wherever present, the regular symmetry of the eruptions strikes the observer; the erythema, the desquamation or the ichthyotic mottling, extend to exactly the same level, and finish oft" in the same way as a trophic lesion should do. Asymmetrical clothing will, however, produce erythema occurring differently on the two sides of the body. 2. Examination of the tongue will often help to decide a doubtful diagnosis, for in most ofPELLAGUA 376 the patients it is more or less denuded of epi- thelium, while the palate also is bare in some of the worst cases. In early cases it is only the extreme tip and the sides which, on careful examination, show preternatural cleanliness. A few of the worst cases of "bald tongue" show also a painless enlargement of both parotid glands. The tongue is merely an index of the stomach, which is very early affected, as shown Egyptian girl, set. 8, showing- eruption on face, hands, forearms, feet, and legs. by the usual evidences of chronic gastritis, anorexia, epigastric pain, and tenderness, flatu- lence, and thirst. Vomiting is not present. Constipation or diarrhoea may or may not occur quite early in the attack, but diarrhoea is an almost invariable accompaniment of the last stages. The urine shows no marked abnormality. Pellagra while vuitreated invariably causes loss of weight, and eventually produces great emaciation. I have seen patients with diar- rhoea and melancholia lose as much as nineteen pounds' weight in hospital in three weeks before death, while the convalescents without diarrhoea have gained from five to thirty pounds. The diarrhoea is believed by Babes to be due to irritation of the sympathetic ganglia and the plexus of Auerbach. There are many reasons for thinking it is tropho-neurotic. 3. If seen in the acute Stage, an intelligent patient often complains of pains in the back which in severe cases may even compel him to walk with his body arched. On ex- amination, he will have pain on both sides of the dorsal vertebrae over the spinal nerves, if gently pressed there with a knuckle. The favourite seat for this tenderness is near the fourth to the ninth dorsal spines, and the tenderness will often be asymmetrical. This symptom invariably dis- appears after a few weeks' rest, and is not present in quiescent cases. The knee reflex may also be asymmetrical, correspond- ing with unequal tender- ness in the back. At first it is slightly exaggerated, then markedly so, prob- ably associated with irri- tation of the posterior spinal roots. This is the time of tenderness on both sides of the dorsal and upper lumbar vertebrae, and the abdominal and epigastric reflexes are ex- tremely brisk. Later in the case the knee-jerk becomes dulled, and event- ually quite abolished, manifesting a lesion in the posterior nerve-roots in the second, third, or fourth lumbar segment. The patient, until he becomes bedridden, does not develop contraction of his lower limbs or paraplegia. He retains control of bladder and rectum, and has no bed-sores. The knee-jerk becomes less abnormal while the patient is under treatment if there be an im- provement in the other symptoms. Ankle and wrist clonus are very rare, only occurring in a few incurable cases. Insomnia is an important nerve symptom, coming on very early, and remaining until the patient is given complete rest and good food asPELLAGRA 377 in a hospital. There are other nervous phe- nomena which are rather complications than symptoms of pellagra, such as tonic and clonic convulsions, epileptic attacks, spastic paralysis, atrophy and paralysis of the muscles of the lower limbs, unilateral ptosis, and other eye affections. 4. Among the early brain symptoms are great mental depression; all thinking and calculating is an effort; and the patient gradually becomes irritable and excitable with others, and stupid and morose when alone. A settled gloom is present on the face after the first year or two, and patients lose all power of smiling and laughing, and some refuse even to try to do so. In advanced cases there are deep transverse furrows of melancholy across their foreheads, and their hopeless eyes stare vacantly. During the first or even the second year of pellagra in an individual of average intelligence no definite mental symptoms are noticed. After that he is found to be always sad, decidedly stupid, and unwilling to take any interest in anything beyond his food and sleep. At a later stage he loses his memory and becomes distinctly melan- cholic, always discontented, craving insistently for food and cigarettes, yet he loses weight in spite of being granted extra food. The sleepless- ness now becomes more pronoimced, and there are vague feelings about the head: sensation of weight, pressure, emptiness, or pulsation. There is often a vague purposeless restlessness, cul- minating in a fixed unreasonable desire to get away from the place in which he is. If the mental symptoms become more evident the patient must be confined in an asylum, for he will require special watching even if he be not suicidal. His delusions when present are insane renderings of his subjective symptoms. The skin irritation causes him to think that he is being burnt, or that his skin is being stretched or peeled off, and that he can escape from his tormentors by plunging into water. His gastric troubles and altered tastes lead him to refuse food and to imagine that everyone is poison- ing him. Some patients remain in a state of absolute dumbness for months. Those who are not melancholic suffer from the mania of per- secution or possession, and the usual ending of mental cases which do not respond to treatment is in secondary dementia, when they become dirty in their habits, forgetful of common decency and most of their past life; they live on until they slowly succumb to diarrhoea or tubercle, perhaps first becoming bedridden from general emaciation and atrophy of their leg muscles. It is interesting to note that some of the chronic pellagrous lunatics in asylums spending several hours a day in the open air develop a new erythema every spring, which is absent at other times of the year. Yet in these asylums maize is not an article of diet. Complications.—There are certain constant accompaniments of pellagra in every country : extreme poverty, insufficient food - stuff for constant labour, and a general neglect of all hygienic laws. But, in addition, there are several varying factors which weigh down the unfortunate sufferer. In Europe the pellagrous adults are often addicted to alcohol, and are also victims of uncured syphilis and malaria, after which the tubercle bacillus finds them an easy prey. In Egypt alchohol is not a vice of the peasants, but syphilis and malaria may both occur, and an almost constant accompaniment of pellagra is ankylostomiasis, sometimes joined by bilharziosis; other entozoa and favus of the head may also be present, the patient succumb- ing eventually to tubercular disease of the lungs. Morbid Anatomy.—At an autopsy there will at once be seen great emaciation and cachexia, generally with marked anaemia. There may be definite exfoliating patches on the parts of the body exposed to the sun during life, or there may be only a little roughness on those parts, but the skin there, if carefully examined, will be found to be atrophied, and there is a general diminution of subcutaneous fat. Microscopically there is sclerosis of the blood-vessels, papillse, and corium, as well as atrophy of the horny layer. The muscles, heart, liver, spleen, and kidneys share in the general atrophy, but the distribu- tion of pigment described by some authors must, I think, be due to concurrent malaria. The lungs sometimes show tubercular lesions. The stomach reveals no lesion to the eye, but the walls of the intestines are thinner than usual, and show a slight shedding of the superficial layers of the epithelium, with, atrophy of the muscular tissue. There is no ulceration of the intestines. Many naked-eye lesions have been reported by various observers as occur- ring in the brain, but the only constant one is atrophy of the cortex of the convolutions, especially the frontal. The spinal cord shows no decided change until it is prepared and carefully examined. Tuczek, in 1893, fovmd in eight autopsies in Italy that all of them showed symmetrical sclerosis of the columns of Goll. In six cases there was also lateral sclerosis in the dorsal region, and in one case he found cervical anterior sclerosis. Later observers, while confirming the posterior sclerosis, are of opinion that this is perhaps of root origin, and that the increase of the con- nective tissue in the posterior columns is secondary to degeneration of the roots, for in some cases the sclerosis can be seen to be limited to the degenerate root area. About half the cases lately examined show a parenchymatous neuritis, or a chronic interstitial neuritis of the posterior roots. These results are quite in accordance with the clinical symptoms, andPELLAGRA 378 stand out in marked contrast with the appear- ances of tabes dorsahs. Diagnosis. — A typical case presents no difficulty, because it is the only known disease causing dermatitis on exposed parts of the body, a denuded tongue, sleeplessness, altered knee- jerk, and tenderness on pressure in the dorsal region. The disease occurs in peasants and beggars who live chiefly on maize. Ichthyosis is the only skin disease likely to be confounded with pellagra. P7-ognosis,—Early cases can be cured by giving a generous diet and excluding maize. Dangerous symptoms are obstinate diarrhoea and insomnia, total loss of knee-jerks, increas- ing emaciation, suicidal melancholia or de- mentia, and the concurrence of tubercle. Prophylaxis. — Improve the miserable con- dition of pellagrous peasants, and teach them the difference between good and bad food. Sound maize flour, damped and kept at a temperature of 77° to 86° F., will remain sweet for more than twenty-four hours, whereas diseased flour will give off a disagreeable odour in less than eight hours. The Government should inspect all markets and prevent the import of sea-damaged maize. Italy, since 1890, has provided some of the pellagrous districts with improved means for drying, storing, and baking maize, besides retreats for the care of patients. Treatment.—Fresh air, rest, ablutions, and a liberal diet are the first essentials. Even sound maize should be excluded from the diet for fear of unconsciously adding to the poison. If iron or quinine is not specially called for by antemia or malaria, strychnia and arsenic will be found the best tonics. Baths and zinc ointment will help the skin eruptions to disappear. Insomnia may require opium or bromides, and the diarrhoea will tax every effort of food and drugs. Since 1889, attempts have been made to find an antitoxic serum by Babes and others. Pelletierine.—An alkaloid (CgHijNO) contained in pomegranate bark. See Granati Cortex. Pelotherapy.—The treatment of dis- eases by means of mud (Gr. irrjXos, mud or clay). Pelvic.—Relating to the pelvis, e.g. pelvic abscess, pelvic diameters, pelvic inlet, etc. See Pelvis. Pelvimetry.—The measurement of the various diameters and circumferences of the pelvis by means of special instruments (pelvi- meters, callipers, etc.) or directly by the hand or fingers. See Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed (Pelvic Deformities, Diagnosis). Pelvis. See Bone, Diseases of {Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis, Special Clinical Features in Pelvis); Broad Ligament, Diseases of (Pelvic Abscess) ; Deformities (Rickets, Pel- vis) ; Fractures (The Pelvis); Generation, Female Organs of (Osseous Pelvis, Diarneters, Planes, Obliquity, etc.) ; Generation, Female Organs of (Pelvic Floor); Gonorrhceal Infec- tion (Pelvic Peritonitis); Hip-Joint, Injuries OF (Dislocation, Fracture, etc.); Kidney, Surgi- cal Affections of (Perinephric Abscess, Eti- ology) ; Labour, Physiology of (Factors, Hard Passages); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Podalic Lies, etc.); Labour, Management op (Breech Cases, etc.); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged (Pelvic Deformities, Common and Pare ; Pelvimetry, etc.); Labour, Accidental Complications Affecting the Child (Injwries to Breech); Labour, Injuries to the Genera- tive Organs (Pelvic Floor, Pelvic Articulations); Labour, Obstetric Operations (Induction For- ceps, Version, Embryotomy, Cleidotomy, Sym- physiotomy, Ccesarean Section in Contracted Pelvis); Lungs, Vascular Disorders (Pulmon- ary Embolism, Causes, Pelvic Thrombosis); Lym- phatic System (Pelvic Lymphatic Glands); Menstruation and its Disorders (Dysmenor- rhoea, Causes, Pelvic Peritonitis, etc.); Osteo- malacia (Deformity of Pelvis, Triradiate) ; Ovaries, Diseases of (Broad Ligament Cysts, etc.); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor ; Pelvis, Diseases of Cellular Tissues ; Phy- siology, Neuromuscular Mechanism (Pelvic Nerves); Post - mortem Methods (Abdominal Examination, Pelvis); Pregnancy, Physiology of (Pelvic Joints, etc.); Pregnancy, Pathology OF Ovum and Decidua (Pelvic Cellulitis and Molar Pregnancy); Puerperium, Pathology (Puerperal lifection. Pelvic Peritonitis and Cellulitis); Spine, Surgical Affections (Lateral Curvature, Pelvic Deformity); Uterus, Dis- placements OF (Prolapse, Displacement of Pelvic Floor Segments). Pelvis—Perineum and Pelvic Floor Introductory — St7-uctural Anatomy of the Pelvic Floor . . . ' . . .379 Faults in the Fixed Portion of the Pelvic Floor— 1. Descent of the Pelvic Floor . .380 2. Perineal Tears .... 380 3. Rectocele ..... 383 Faults in the Fixed Portion, together WITH Faulty Connection between the Fixed and the Movable Portions of the Pelvic Floor— 1. Sacro-pubic Hernia, or Prolapsus Uteri 384 2. Cystocele 386 Faults in the Movable Portion op the Pelvic Floor— Vaginal Enterocele .... 387 Anterior ..... 387 Posterior .... . 387379 PELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR Introductory.—Structural Anatomy of the Pelvic Flow The most striking characteristics of the female pelvic floor depend upon the fact that it is so constructed as to open during parturition to admit of the passage of the foetus through it. While it has to allow occasional opening for this purpose, the pelvic floor has also to support the abdominal viscera and resist the intra-abdominal pressure throughout life. The arrangements, which make parturition possible, introduce into the structure of the pelvic floor certain inherent weaknesses, which under certain circumstances are the prime cavises of the pathological con- ditions discussed in the following pages :— The female pelvic floor may be considered as consisting of two portions: the one which is the more movable being supported by the other, which is the more firmly fixed to the bony structures. The movable portion, which is the inner and anterior portion of the pelvic floor, is connected with the outer and posterior fixed structures by a ring of loose connective tissue which runs round the pelvis. To speak more definitely, the movable portion consists of the bladder, the urethra, and the anterior and posterior walls of the vagina. The uterus, the broad ligaments, and the ovaries and tubes rest upon these mobile structures, and move with them. The loose tissue by which these organs are connected with the more fixed por- tions of the pelvic floor extends behind the pubes, along the inner surface of the obturator internus and the upper part of the levator ani, being continued between the posterior wall of the vagina and the anterior wall of the rectum. The use of this ring of loose tissue is not only to render parturition possible, but to allow of the movements of the bladder and rectum, which occur during the filling and emptying of these organs. In prolapse of the uterus, which is, strictly speaking, a form of hernia (sacro- pubic hernia), the whole of the movable portion of the pelvic floor descends, together with the uterus and appendages. Coils of intestine de- scend in turn and occupy a sac formed by the organs mentioned, lined by peritoneum, and having for outer covering the inverted walls of the vagina. To obtain a clear idea of the structure of the pelvic floor, it is necessary to consider a sagittal mesial section of the pelvis. In Fig. 1 such a section is figured, the straight lines which are introduced showing the direction in which the intra-abdominal pressure acts upon the various portions of the pelvic floor. Consideration of such a section shows that the vagina is a trans- verse slit in the pelvic floor, and divides it into two portions—an anterior or pubic and a pos- terior or sacral portion. The anterior portion is composed of the bladder and urethra, with the anterior wall of the vagina; the posterior portion consists of the posterior vaginal wall, with the rectum, and all the muscular and con- nective tissue attached to the sacrum and coccyx. Fig. 1.—Saggital section of pelvis, ct, uterus ; i, bladder ; c, rectum ; d, vulva; e, symphysis; /, perineal body. The lines show the direction of intra-abdominal pressure. (Hart and Barbour.) including, of course, the perineum. Fig. 2 shows the appearance of the sacral segment in mesial sagittal section, as figured by Hart. It is thus seen that the division of the pelvic floor into movable and fixed portions, nearly, though not entirely, coincides with the division into pubic and sacral segments. For the pos- terior vaginal wall forms a part of the movable portion of the pelvic floor, with the anterior vaginal wall, bladder, and urethra; but, on the other hand, it forms a part of the sacral seg- ment, together with the rectum, perineal body, and muscular structures attached to the sacrum and coccyx. When the uterus contracts during parturition it draws upward all those parts of the movable portion of the pelvic floor which are free to rise, namely, the bladder and the anterior vaginal wall. The posterior vaginal wall is pulled up- ward certainly, but it is also pushed downward and stretched by the advancing foetal head, together with the rest of the sacral segment of the pelvic floor. Thus the floor opens like a pair of folding doors, one of which is pulled while the other is pushed open. The pubic segment is pviUed up, the sacral segment is pushed down, the vaginal cleft being altered from a mere potential slit into a tube four inches wide. This mechanism is well seen by placing a patient in the genupectoral posture and allowing air to enter the vagina. The pubic segment of the pelvic floor then falls away from the more fixed sacral segment, the vagina remaining widely pouched, as longAND PELVIC FLOOR PELVIS—PERINEUM 380 as the pelvic floor is relieved of intra-abdominal pressure by the maintenance of the genupectoral position. A study of the lines of pressure Fig. 2.—The sacral or supporting segment of the pelvic floor (Hart), g, anus ; /, perineum ; e, symphysis pubis. drawn in Fig. 1, shows that the normal action of intra-abdominal pressure is to push the movable portion of the pelvic floor against the fixed portion, and so long as the relative positions of the two are maintained, and intra- abdominal pressure is balanced by the resistance of the fixed portion of the pelvic floor, no displacement occurs, in spite of the existence of the vaginal slit and the ring of loose tissue surrounding the movable position. The balance of forces is, however, liable to disturbance, with varied pathological conditions as results. Par- turition is the chief source of injury to the pelvic floor. It stretches and renders still more lax the above-mentioned ring of loose tissue; it enlarges and softens the vaginal walls; it frequently causes tearing of the lower margin of the fixed portion of the pelvic floor, namely, the perineum; and it occasionally produces lacerations of the levatores ani, and other structures in the sacral segment. For Hart's original description of the structural anatomy of the female pelvic floor, upon which most subsequent descriptions are based, the reader is referred to Hart's Structural Anatomy of the Female Pelvic Floor (Edin., 1881), and to Hart and Barbour's Manual of Gynaecology. It is convenient, in considering the lesions of the pelvic floor, to begin with those in which the fixed segment is involved, namely : 1. Undue descent of the whole pelvic floor ; 2. Lacerations of the perineum ; and 3. Rectocele. The conditions in which both the movable and the fixed portions are at fault will next be discussed, namely, sacro-pubic hernia, or prolapsus uteri and cystocele. Finally, those lesions of the movable portion known as an- terior and posterior vaginal enterocele must be described. Lesions in which the Fixed Portion is Involved 1. Undue Descent of the Pelvic Floor.—By the "pelvic floor projection" we understand the distance which the structures in the perineal region bulge or extend beyond a straight line drawn between the tip of the coccyx and the lower margin of the pubic symphysis, or, in other words, beyond the plane of the outlet of the bony pelvis. In normal women the average projection of the pelvic floor has been estimated by Foster at 2*5 cm., the measurement being- taken with the patient lying down. It is increased in the erect and diminished in the genupectoral posture. The projection is in- creased during pregnancy, and is greater in parous than in nuUiparous women, as is to be expected when we consider the amount of stretching and depression to which the sacral segment is exposed during parturition. In the absence of a special instrument, the bulge of the pelvic floor can be estimated clinically by measuring with a tape measure the distance from the top of the coccyx to the lower margin of the pubic symphysis. This averages about four inches, or, on straining, four inches and a half. Some parous women, who complain of pain in the back and hips, with dragging sensations in the pelvis, and other forms of discomfort, are found on examination to present no physical signs beyond an undue bulging or descent of the perineal structures. Upon measurement the distance from the tip of the coccyx to the symphysis may be found to be six inches, or even more. This incompetence of the pelvic floor is due in part to a general want of tone in the muscular structures, in which atrophic changes can sometimes be detected. Injuries to the levatores ani received during parturition are held by some to be of prime importance in the causation of the con- dition. Attempts at operative treatment are hardly justified in the present state of our knowledge. A perineal pad, supported by a belt fitting the hips like a hernia truss, gener- ally relieves the symptoms. (Teneral treatment should be directed towards improving the mus- cular tone by special exercises, by hygiene, and by internal medication. 2. Perineal Tears.—For a description of the nature and causation of injuries to the perineum during labour, and of the measures demanded for their immediate repair, the reader is referred to the article, "Labour, Injuries," in vol. vi. If lacerations of the perineum are not repaired by stitching within a few hours of their inflic- tion, the torn surfaces do not become reunited,AND PELVIC FLOOR 381 PELVIS—PERINEUM but are gradually covered with epithelium by a process of extension from their margins. There is some subsequent contraction of the cicatricial surfaces; this, however, does not by any means restore the lumen of the vaginal orifice to its original size. It is necessary to consider both complete tears of the perineum—• those which divide the sphincter ani, and those which leave that muscle intact while more or less dividing the other structures which form the perineal body. The anatomical result of a complete tear of the perineum is to unite the lower parts of the vagina and the rectum into a single tube, which corresponds with the cloaca of some lower animals. The traumatic " cloaca " is lined by rectal mucosa posteriorly, and by vaginal mucosa anteriorly, while at each side a tri- angular area, with its apex pointing upward, is lined by the scar tissue covering the raw sur- faces produced by the tear. Uniting the apices of these scar areas, the lower margin of the untorn portion of the recto-vaginal septum extends across the cavity, a narrow bridge of scar tissue dividing the rectal from the vaginal mucosa. The contraction of the sphincter ani draws apart its torn ends, so that the position of these is marked by a depression on each side within the triangular area of scar tissue. The most important physiological result of such a tear is inability on the part of the patient to retain fluid fasces. Whenever the motions are unformed they escape, in spite of all voluntary efforts at retention, through the cloacal aperture. This causes the patient to favour a habit of constipation, which impairs her general health and makes her life miserable. Other results of perineal tears are due to the impairment of the sacral segment of the pelvic floor as a supporting structure for the pubic segment. Though most marked in complete tears these results are shared by inj uries, which, though they do not involve the sphincter, yet divide more or less completely the muscular and connective tissues forming the perineal body, or lower margin of the sacral segment. When combined with other causes of prolapsus uteri, cystocele, and rectocele, perineal tears assist in the production of these conditions. They are present in most cases in which these lesions exist; but they are also to be found in many women who have no other sign or symptom of defect in the pelvic floor, and alone they are quite insufficient to produce such. All tears which involve more than skin and mucous membrane should, however, be repaired. For though in young women there may be no appearance of secondary results, yet as life advances, and other factors come into play, serious changes may occur, which a simple and timely perineal repair would have prevented completely. Operations for the repair of perineal tears. which have not been sutured immediately after labour, should be deferred until the torn surfaces are completely healed and the cica- trices have become firm and free from excessive vascularity. This, as a rule, requires from two to three months. Time should also be allowed in order for the patient to be up and about long enough to secure a good state of general health. This is necessary in order that healing of the operation wound may be favoured, and that the patient may well bear confinement to bed during the period of union. The operation should be done soon after the end of a menstrual period (if menstruation has returned), in order to allow as much time as possible for healing before the menstrual discharge reappears. The patient should be kept on light plain food for a week before operation, and should take aperients in suflicient quantity to produce at least one loose stool daily. A small dose of cascara sagrada (say n\_x) thrice daily with a mild saline on waking each morning is generally efficacious. An enema should be given two or three hours before operation, and should be re- peated until the rectum is perfectly empty and clean. If there is any leucorrhoeal discharge, vaginal douching with very mild astringents and antiseptics should be practised for a few days previously. The patient, when antesthetised, should be placed upon a table in the lithotomy posture, a good light being secured. The legs should be supported by a Clover's crutch unless ample assistance is available. The object of the operation is to restore union between those structures which were in continuity before the laceration occurred, but which have become covered with a layer of cicatricial epidermis. If the tear is incomplete and the anvis with its sphincter is intact, only one orifice, the vaginal, has to be restored to its ordinary dimensions. But it is necessary also to reconstruct the triangular mass of tissue known as the perineal body, and to do this it is necessary to unite between the vagina and the rectum lateral areas of tissue about IJ inches wide at the skin surface, triangular in shape, their apices extend- ing fully 1| inches upward in the recto-vaginal septum. If the tear extends into the rectum it is further necessary to restore the integrity of the anal orifice, and above all, to secure accurate coaptation and sound union between the divided ends of the sphincter ani. There are numerous ways of attaining the above objects, and it should be mentioned that it used to be usual and is still preferred by some operators, to raw the surfaces to be united by paring off and cutting away the scar tissue. We describe, however, only one way of dealing with perineal tears, a type of those operations in which no tissue is removed. The operations for incomplete and for complete lacerations demand separate description.PELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR 382 Fig. 3.—lucisioii for repair of incomplete perineal tear is commenced at c and carried to a and 6. In operating for incomplete tears a horse- shoe or letter U-shaped incision is made round the hinder end of the vaginal orifice following the line where the skin joins the scar tissue (Fig. 3). The ends of the incision rvin forward a little farther than the scar tissue extends, and it must be remembered that these anterior ends of the incision mark what will be the pos- terior margin of the vaginal orifice when sutured. In a young woman likely to bear more children the in- cision must not be carried so far forward as is permissible in a woman more advanced in life, in whom the vagina may be almost closed with impunity, and in whom as a rule there is more need to form a strong perineal body. The incision is deepened by snips with the scissors which free the scar tissue and adjacent vaginal mucosa from the subjacent tissues. The flap of tissue raised and turned forward should be even in thickness, and great care should be taken not to perforate it with the scissors. The wound will ultimately be from an inch to an inch and a half deep in the centre (according to the extent of the tear), decreasing in depth at the sides as it nears to the ends of the incision. Bleeding is checked by pressure, or by a stream of water at 118° F. allowed to run over the wound from a douche-can. If necessary bleeding points may be tied with cat-gut, as it is essential to prevent the formation of blood- clots within the wound after it has been closed. When bleeding has been checked the freed layer of superficial tissue is turned forward into the vagina, so that the wound, instead of being U-shaped, assumes the aspect of a letter V with another inverted over it ^. The sides of the V united in the middle line form the new perineal body. The sides of the inverted A brought together in the middle line merely add to the bulk of the new perineum. As above mentioned, many operators cut away this tissue. It is usual to close the wound with a series of interrupted sutures of silkworm-gut. These are introduced with a well-curved needle so as to take a firm grip of the lateral aspects of the wound, and they are carried well to its bottom so as to prevent, as far as possible, the formation of pockets where blood-clot may accumulate. Such stitches are removed on the tenth or twelfth day, and answer their purpose fairly well. Many operators prefer to use a continu- ous suture of fine cat-gut hardened with chromic acid so as to resist absorption for about three weeks. The deeper portions of the wound are closed by stitches which are buried as the more superficial ones are inserted. The whole of the cat-gut is ultimately absorbed, and no removal of sutures is needed. This method completely avoids the puckering or pocket formation which is inevitable when it is attempted to unite two flat surfaces by a single row of sutures. It is carried out as follows:—The middle of the edge of the flap to be turned forward into the vagina is seized with a pair of forceps and pulled up- ward and forward. A piece of " chromic acid " cat-gut about a yard long is passed by means of a fully curved needle (Hagedorn's or Martin's, with the appropriate needle-holder) into the flap of tissue just below the tip of the forceps. It is tied in this position, and the loose end, being left about 6 inches long, is now used for hold- ing up the flap instead of the forceps. The deep layer of sutures is now inserted from be- fore backwards, the bottom of the wound being closed until its hinder end is reached, and care being taken that each stitch takes a firm grip of the tissues, but does not penetrate either rectum or vagina. The next layer of sutures is inserted from behind forwards, the first layer being buried and the wound rendered quite narrow and shallow. When the anterior or vaginal limit of the wound is reached the operator again turns backward and inserts the third or superficial layer of stitches, which finally closes the wound from before backwards. Some operators do not pass these stitches through the skin, but bring them out just imder it; the majority, however, include the skin and draw its edges neatly together, so that the closed incision forms a single line from the vagina towards the anus. No dressing is neces- sary ; indeed, the wound keeps dryer and cleaner if none be used. The knees should be tied to- gether for a few days. The catheter may be needed for a day or two, though this is by no means the rule. It is said that if the skin be not stitched retention of urine is less likely to occur than otherwise. The bowels should be moved by aperient, enema, or both, on the third day, and regularly every day thereafter. The wound must be kept scrupulously clean, but vaginal douching is not desirable unless there is leucorrhoeal discharge. (This should not be the leucorrhoea should be cured before the operation is attempted.) Stitches which cannot be absorbed by the tissues should be removed on the tenth or twelfth day. The patient may sit up at the end of two weeks, but should not rise till the end of three weeks unless the operation is very slight. Operation for Complete Rupture.—The opera- tion for the repair of tears extending into the rectiim differs somewhat from that above de-PELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR 383 scribed. The incision is H-shaped instead of U-shaped. The transverse part of the incision (the cross-line of the H) runs along the edge of the recto-vaginal septum until the skin is reached on either side. The incision is then carried for- ward on each side of the vagina just as in operating for incom- plete tear. Then it is carried backward on each side of the anus (so completing the upright lines of the H), so as to fully expose the torn and retracted ends of the sphincter ani. The recto-vaginal septum must be split for some distance, say three-quarters of an inch, so as to sepai'- ate the vaginal and rectal walls well above the level to which they were torn. The forward and backward por- tions of the incision must be deepened accordingly by snips with the scissors until good flaps of tissue, freed from the sides of the " cloaca," can be turned forward and backward respectively. In suturing, the integrity of the anal canal is first restored. This is best done by interrupted sutures of cat-gut. The first suture is passed at the point of the tear which is highest up in the rectum, being inserted from the rectum into the wound on one side and from the wound back into the rectum on the other side, so that when the suture is tightened and tied the knot lies within the rectum and not in the wound. It comes away per anum when the portion of cat- gut within the tissues is absorbed. The next stitch is passed in the same way nearer the surface, and so on until the anal canal is once more complete, its front half being formed by the flaps of tissue separated from the sides of the cloaca by the backward portions of the in- cision. A finger introduced into the new anus enters it quite easily, for as yet the ends of the sphincter have not been firmly drawn together. This should next be done, and for this purpose it is well to use one or two stitches of silkworm- gut passed so as to take a solid grip of the tissues at the hinder ends of the backward limbs of the incision. These should be tightened until the tip of the little finger is firmly gripped on gently passing it into the anus. The sphincter has shortened while thrown out of use; it lengthens again after its function is restored. Fig. 4.—Incision for repair of com- plete perineal tear, o, anal wall; b, anterior vaginal wall; e, torn septum. Incision runs right and left forwards to e and d, and baclt- wards to / and c. On suturing /and c come together, alsoeand d. (Hart and Barbour.) and if the anus be not made apparently too tight at the operation, it will be found to be too loose after healing has occurred. The wound is now the same in shape and nature as that made in operating for incomplete tear, and may be closed either by interrupted sutures or by a continuous suture of chromic acid cat-gut as above described. In addition to the after-treat- ment necessary when the tear is incomplete, the operation for complete rupture must be followed by special attention to the rectum. It is no longer customary to keep the bowel at rest for several days. To give the best chance of perfect healing the rectum should be washed out every day for a week after the operation with a pint or more of warm water containing a little lysol, creolin, or boracic acid. The enema syringe should not be used for this purpose ; but the fluid should be gently run into the rectum and out of it again through a yard or so of rubber tubing of the diameter of the little finger. A glass funnel is attached to one end of the tube, and the other end is gently passed into the anus, no nozzle being necessary. This washing of the rectum, combined with a mild aperient on the second evening after the operation, usually brings away a considerable amount of fsecal matter without any strain to the newly repaired anal canal and sphincter. If the patient be kept on fluid food for three or four days, and if the bowel has been well, emptied before the operation, all will be well. If, however, from neglect of these precautions there be solid matter in the bowel, it must be carefully re- moved by enemata as occasion arises, a few ounces of olive oil being injected before the patient is allowed to expel a solid motion. The controlling sutures of silkworm-gut should be removed about the twelfth day. The patient must be kept at rest for three weeks. Aperients must be used until the sphincter is completely and firmly united. 3. Rectocele.—While the anterior rectal wall forms a part of the fixed portion of the pelvic floor, the posterior vaginal wall loosely attached to it is a part of the movable portion of the pelvic floor. In displacements of the movable portion the vaginal wall usually is separated from the rectal wall, the latter remaining in or near its usual position. Sometimes, however, the rectal wall becomes pouched downward and forward, and, covered by the posterior vaginal wall, protrudes at the vulva as a swelling vary- ing in size according to the presence in it or absence from it of fseces. Tears of the perineum, combined with the pressure of fsecal accumula- tions due to a constipated habit, are the factors that produce this condition, which is easily dis- tinguished from prolapsus uteri by passing a finger into the rectum, when it is recognised that a pouch of the latter organ occupies the swelling observed at the vulva. In uncompli- cated rectocele the uterus, bladder, and anteriorAND PELVIC FLOOR PELVIS—PERINEUM 384 vaginal wall occupy almost their normal position. It must be remembered that prolapsus uteri can occur without rectocele, and as a rule does so; also that rectocele can occur without pro- lapse, and that the two conditions may exist ? Fio. 5.—Rectocele. (Hart and Barbour.) together. The use of a ring pessary with a diaphragm, or a Hodge pessary with transverse bars, together with regular evacuations of the rectum, will relieve the condition as a rule. If the perineum is so torn that a pessary will not stay in position, the tear may be repaired by operation, and a pessary may then be worn. But if operative treatment be required the cure should be radical, and the pessary should be unnecessary. In some cases it is sufficient to tunnel well up between the rectal and vaginal walls when operating as above described (see Perineal Tears), and by stitching to throw the vaginal wall into one or two deep folds running upward from the perineal body. In other cases posterior colporraphy should be per- formed, a considerable portion of the posterior vaginal wall being removed so as to both narrow and shorten it. This is followed by perineor- raphy. Other cases are best treated by rawing a triangular surface on each side of the rectocele and closing these by folding each on itself ("Emmett's Operation"). The bases of these triangles are continuous with the ends of the wound by which the perineum is subsequently repaired. Lesions in which both Fixed and Movable Postures of the Pelvic Floor are In- volved 1. Prolapsus Uteri or Sacro-pubic Hernia.— " Prolapse of the uterus " is " not a mere uterine descent, but a downward displacement of the abdominal and pelvic viscera, along with the entire displaceable portion of the pelvic floor." It is thus a form of hernia {see Fig. 3). The movable portion of the pelvic floor, with the uterus and appendages, slides down upon the fixed portion, till a sac, lined by peritoneum and containing small intestine, is formed. Three sets of causes combine to produce this condition :— 1. Laxity and want of tone in the movable portion of the pelvic floor and in the ring of loose connective tissue which unites it with the fixed portion. 2. Impairment of function of the fixed portion as a supporting structure due to injury or to general laxity. 3. All circumstances which increase the intra- abdominal pressure which has to be resisted by the pelvic floor. All circumstances which fall under headings 1 and 2 weaken the resistance of the pelvic floor. Fig. 6.—Prolapsus uteri. The displaced "movable portion " is shaded black, a, peritoneum ; b, bladder wall ; c, uterus ; d, anterior vaginal wall; «, rectal wall; /, perineal body (torn) ; g, posterior vaginal wall. The horizontal lines show the sac which is occupied by intestine. (Hart and Barbour.) Those falling under heading 3 increase the dis- placing force to be resisted, and these latter are therefore the positive or prime causes of prolapse. In a few cases congenital weakness of certain pelvic structures must be recognised as a pre- disposing cause, as instances occur in which young women who have never been pregnant gradually or suddenly develop prolapsus after lifting weights or making unusual muscular efforts. Injuries received during parturition are, however, by far the commonest causes of lessened resistance on the part of the pelvic floor. In- creased intra-abdominal pressure is occasionally due to the presence of abdominal tumours and other pathological conditions. In general, however, it is lifting heavy objects which in- creases the strain put upon the pelvic structures weakened by parturition. The abuse of the corset is an important cause of increased intra-385 AND PELVIC FLOOR PELVIS—PERINEUM abdominal pressure—more especially the early return to its use after parturition. Two or three weeks after labour, when all the tissues are soft, when muscular tone is low, when the uterus is large, the vaginal walls are lax, and the perineum is very frequently torn, the patient puts on her corsets, reducing her waist to the same size which it occupied before preg- nancy began. The result is a raising of intra- abdominal pressure,and this is often enough under the circumstances to cause prolapse. Another fruitful cause of high intra-abdominal pressure at a specially unsuitable time is the prolonged use of the obstetric binder. This appliance is excusable and comfortable for the two or three days immediately following labour, but after these have passed it is a useless and, if tight, a dangerous encumbrance. Suiferers from prolapse complain of "down- bearing," pain in the back, and pelvic discomfort, and also of the presence of a lump or swelling at the vaginal orifice. The soreness and dis- charge caused by excoriations upon the pro- truding mass is often the main trouble. There is also difficulty in passing water. In early cases the anterior vaginal wall is found protrud- ing from the vulva, the cervix is near the vaginal outlet, the uterus is retroverted and large. The term " prolapse " is by some used for cases in this stage, the term " procidentia" being re- served for more advanced cases. In these the whole uterus enclosed in the inverted vaginal walls is outside the vulva and hangs between the thighs. The uterus is large and congested, the cervix gaping and hypertrophied, and the vaginal walls are often widely ulcerated. If the displaced organs be gently replaced in their normal position, and the patient, lying on her side, be then requested to strain down, the mechanism of prolapsus may be observed, the organs passing through, in a few moments, the phases which they have successively gone through as the condition developed, occupying, it may be, months or years in the process. The anterior vaginal wall first appears at the vulva. A finger placed in the vagina gives the information that as this occurs the uterus descends and at the same time assumes a retroverted position, its long axis changing during descent and following the axis of the pelvic canal. The cervix next appears at and emerges from the vulva, the posterior vaginal wall finally descending as the whole uterus leaves the pelvis. The urethra, with the lower and hinder part of the bladder, and also the iireters, accompany the anterior vaginal wall in its descent {see Cystocele). The rectum, however, is separated, as a rule, from the posterior vaginal wall, and remains approxi- mately in its usual position (see Rectocele). True sacro-pubic hernia must be distinguished from hypertrophy of the cervix by examination with the sound. In the latter condition, though the cervix may appear at the vulva, the anterior VOL, VII vaginal wall and the bladder remain in their normal positions. Cystocele may resemble prolapse ; but in true cystocele the uterus retains its position, the lower and hinder portion of the bladder pro- truding at the vulva covered by the anterior vaginal wall. In rectocele a finger passed into the anus runs into the pouch formed by the anterior rectal and posterior vaginal walls, the uterus, bladder, and anterior vaginal wall retaining their position. The palliative treatment of prolapsus uteri consists, for the most part, in the use of pessaries. In many slight cases the use of a flexible rubber ring pessary, or of a vulcanite instrument of chosen size and shape, will give relief. In other cases, a rubber bag fitted with a stopcock and inflated after insertion will render the patient comfortable. In more serious cases, before using a pessary, excoriations have to be treated with lotions and imguents, uterine con- gestion has to be reduced by astringent hot douches and rest in bed, and the uterus may have to be supported temporarily by packing the vagina with gauze. In certain cases repair of the perineum may be undertaken simply in order to enable the patient to wear a pessary, and not as an attempt at operative cure of the prolapse. In women in advanced life, and when for other reasons operative treatment is not desirable, the old-fashioned cup and stem pessary, supported by rubber tubing attached to an abdominal belt, may be very useful. As an alternative, when the pessary produces ex- coriations the vagina may be packed with tow or gauze every few days, a perineal pad and T-bandage being worn in order to keep the packing in position. The choice of a line of operative treatment demands careful consideration in each case. It must be remembered that the following con- ditions are generally present:— 1. Enlarged congested uterus. 2. Relaxed ring of loose tissue between the movable and the fixed portions of the pelvic floor, involving separation of the rectum from the vagina, and separation of the uterus and bladder from the surfaces generally in relation with them. 3. Torn perineum. 4. Stretched and weakened "fixed portion," with probable lacerations of the levator ani. 5. Relaxed and enlarged vaginal walls. 6. Increased intra-abdominal pressure. No. 1 can be improved by reposition, amputa- tion of cervix, curetting, and other local treat- ment. No. 3 can be repaired. No. 5 can be improved by anterior and posterior colporraphy. But No. 2, No. 4, and No. 6 cannot be altered by operative interference. Doubtless curetting, amputation of the cervix, narrowing the vagina by colporraphy, and re- 25PELVIS—PERINEUM 386 AND PELVIC FLOOR pairing the perineum, will practically cure in many slight cases, but it is clear that these measures leave unaltered the more serious factors in the causation of prolapse. We can go no further, however, in the correcting of structural alterations by operative interference, and the failure of the above-mentioned measures in all but slight cases has led operators to go beyond the pathological indications, and to try to support the movable portion of the pelvic floor by any available means. Thus we have to consider a set of operations which do not attempt to correct the causes of prolapse, but simply to substitute other means of support for the natural ones. We may men- tion episioperineorraphy, in which the edges of the labia majora are united, and elytrorraphy, in which sutures more or less completely unite the vaginal walls with one another so as to pre- vent their reversion. These measures attempt to support the uterus from below. Ventro- fixation, or the fastening of the uterus to the anterior abdominal wall above the bladder, attempts to solve the problem by suspending the movable portion of the pelvic floor from above. Two sets of operations designed for the cure of retro-deviations of the uterus are also employed along with other measures in operating for prolapse. These are vaginal- fixation, in which the anterior surface of the uterus is fixed to the anterior vaginal wall, the bladder being pushed up after a preliminary colporraphy; and those operations of which Alexander's is the type, in which the round ligaments of the uterus are shortened either by extra- or intra-peritoneal methods. That none of these measures is entirely satisfactory is shown by the fact that some operators have performed vaginal hysterectomy, removing a considerable portion of the vaginal walls, together with the uterus, as a way out of the difficulty. This procedure, of course, leaves open the canal of the hernia, which has to be closed as far as possible by uniting the broad ligaments and the remainder of the vaginal walls. The operation is sometimes justified in patients past the menopause if completed by a perineal operation almost closing the vaginal outlet. It is, of course, most suit- able if fibro-myomata are present in the uterus. It is impossible to indicate a course of action suitable for every case. It is, however, clear that the lesions present should be treated in the first instance. Thus curetting, amputation of the cervix, and anterior colporraphy {see Cystocele) are almost always indicated. Peri- neorraphy is generally advisable (see Perineal Tears), and the removal of a portion of the posterior vaginal wall is also frequently desir- able. The operations designed for the cvire of retroversion are of doubtful value in prolapse. Some operators do Alexander's operation in addition to the measures just mentioned, while others, when removing part of the anterior vaginal wall, take the opportunity of pushing up the bladder and including part of the anterior wall of the uterus in the stitches which close the vaginal wound. The fundus of the uterus should never be fastened into this position for fear of the consequences should pregnancy occur subsequently. It will probably be found that vaginal fixation and shortening of the round ligaments are of less value in prolapsus than ventro-fixation. This measure, though weak theoretically, is of practical utility, and is free from evil results should pregnancy follow, provided only that care is taken to leave the fundus free to rise. The anterior wall below the fundus is the portion of the uterus that should be sutured to the edges of the wound in the abdominal wall. The operation can be done conveniently after plastic operations on the vagina and perineum have failed, or it may be performed in bad cases as soon as uterine congestion and vaginal ulcerations have been relieved by rest in bed and local treatment. 2. Cystocele.—When the anterior vaginal wall descends with the bladder and urethra in the first stage of uterine prolapse the tumour which appears at the vulvar outlet may doubtless be termed a cystocele. This, however, is not the strict sense in which the term is accepted. For true cystocele, namely, a protrusion at the vulva of the lower and hinder portion of the bladder covered by the anterior vaginal wall, has a clinical existence apart from uterine pro- lapse or descent of the whole movable portion of the pelvic floor. In short, prolapse cannot occur without cystocele of a kind, but true cystocele can occur without prolapse. The cause of the condition is undue laxity in the connections between the bladder and the uterus and adjoining sutures, combined with failure in its supporting function of the lower margin of the sacral segment, due to tearing of the perineum. The diagnosis is made by bimanual examination and the use of the sound in the bladder. The uterus and fundus of the bladder occupy their usual position, the lower portion of the bladder being pouched downward and backward. The main symptom is difficulty in completely emptying the bladder, with cystitis as a secondary result, especially common in the senile form. A ring pessary with diaphragm, or a Hodge pessary with transverse bars, may relieve the patient of all difficulty. A perineor- raphy may be necessary in order to make it possible to wear the instrument. If, however, any operative treatment be adopted, it is advis- able to perform an anterior colporraphy which will render an instrument needless. There are many ways of doing the operation. It must be remembered, whatever method is chosen, that the anterior vaginal wall is both longer and wider than it should be, and that it must, there- fore, be shortened as well as narrowed. A usefulPELVIS—PERINEUM AND PELVIC FLOOR 387 method is that of Currier. An area of mucous membrane is rawed, as shown in Fig. 7 A, broad enough to cause when c and d are brought together sufficient narrowing of the vaginal wall. In order to give the necessary shortening further areas are denuded, as shown in Fig. 7 B. When all bleeding has been stopped by means of pressure and hot water, OU c Fig. 7.—Anterior colporraphy. \v, Urethra ; oc, os uteri. (Skene Keith.) The swelling can be recognised, both by vaginal and by rectal examination, as a mass of intestine descending between the iixed and the movable portions of the pelvic floor. In the anterior vai'iety the sac of the hernia is formed by extension of the utero-vesical pouch intestine descending between the uterus and the bladder. The uterus is displaced back- wards, and on V vaginal examina- tion the sac with its contents is felt bulging into the vagina in front of the cer- vix, having pass- ed through the movable portion of the pelvic floor. The main fac- tor in the caus- ation of vaginal enterocele is in- creased intra- F I o 6 OU with ligatures if necessary, the round surfaces are united, as shown in Figs. 7 C and 7 D. Interrupted suture may be employed, or two continuous sutures of chromic acid cat-gut may be used. Suture 1 runs from a to f, and is then left long. Suture 2 runs from G to f, and is then left long. The portion of No. 1 is now used again, and runs from e to b, where it is finally tied off. The remainder of No. 2 now closes the wound by running from i to K, and the operation is complete. Coughing, vomiting, and straining must be avoided while union is taking place. No dressing is necessary, nor is vaginal douching desirable, but rest in bed should be continued for quite two weeks. Faults in the Movable Portion op the Pelvic Floor Vaginal Enterocele. — This is a very rare condition which, strictly speaking, is a form of hernia, since its essential feature is the forma- tion of a sac lined by peritoneum and occupied by small intestine or omentum (or occasionally by ovary), which protrudes through an opening in the pelvic floor into the vagina. The con- dition is perfectly clearly distinguished from prolapsus uteri by the fact that in vaginal enterocele the hernia descends through the movable portion of the pelvic floor, and is not a descent of that portion of the floor, en masse. There are two varieties of vaginal enterocele, the anterior and the posterior. In the posterior variety coils of intestine separate the rectum from the posterior vaginal wall, the pouch of Douglas being deepened and extended. Sometimes the hernia penetrates the muscular wall of the vagina, and its peritoneal sac is covered only by the vaginal mucosa. abdominal pressure. There is usually a history of a fall, of straining, of heavy lifting, or of parturition. In slight cases, it is generally possible to select a pessary which will prevent discomfort. In more pronounced cases of the anterior variety an anterior colpotomy will allow the operator to push up the sac without cutting the peri- FIG. 8.—Posterior vaginal enterocele. (Hart and Barbour.) toneum. By suturing the anterior surface of the uterus to the upper portion of the anterior vaginal wall the canal is obliterated, and the future descent of the sac is rendered impossible. In posterior enterocele the appropriate operative treatment consists in rawing the upper portion of the posterior vaginal wall and folding it upon itself transversely, so as to shorten the wall and bring the cervix close to the reflexion of the peritoneum from the wall of the rectum.PELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM 388 As an alternative, the posterior fornix may be freely opened and the sac closed up by sutures. Pelvis—Diseases of the Cellular Tissue and Peritoneum Pelvic Cellulitis ..... 388 Pelvic Peritonitis .... 389 Rarer Affection of Peritonitis and Cellulitis ..... 390 I. Pelvic Cellulitis As the name implies, this consists of an in- flammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis. Until comparatively recently it was generally known by the name of parametritis, a term which now, fortunately, has almost entirely been given up as imscientific and confusing. The cellular tissue of the pelvis has a well- defined distribution. It may be described as mainly forming a ring round the cervix at the utero-vaginal juncture (the parametrium); from this ring processes of tissue pass in several defined directions. Backwards to the sacrum, the utero-sacral ligaments, laterally between the layei's of the broad ligaments, and forwards along the roimd ligaments. Each process is shut off by the so-called lines of cleavage de- scribed by Konig, a point of great clinical importance, as giving the direction of the in- flammatory exudations when the cellular tissue is infected. Below it is bounded by the pelvic fascia upon which it may be said to lie, while above it is loosely covered by the peritoneum. Ordinarily it measures about one-third of an inch in thickness, but during pregnancy is enormously increased. Primary inflammation of the cellular tissue is always infective. Most commonly a direct inoculation of the parametric ring through lacerations of the cervix or upper end of the vagina, but rarely also through absorption— through the uterine wall, as shown by Polk and Lewers. It will thus be evident that the majority of cases occur after full-time labours, when lacerations of the cervix are prone to occur, or after operative procedures on the uterus where the cervical continuity has been interfered with. Clinical Features.—Acute pelvic cellulitis may be ushered in by a well-marked rigor, which in puerperal cases occurs about the second or third day after delivery. In a large number of cases, however, the onset is slower; a subacute inflammatory state is here primarily present, which is recognised only by an elevated evening temperature, 100° to 101° F., and a persistent increase in the pulse-rate, unassoci- ated with any constitutional symptoms whatever. After many days the subacute may pass into the acute condition, a change which is marked by a rigor and constitutional symptoms. Pain is unusual in uncomplicated cases, and betokens involvement of the peritoneum. The symptoms vary materially according to whether there is suppuration; should pus form, the patient soon assumes an emaciated hectic appearance and looks extremely ill. The skin is dry, tongue furred, bowels constipated, and temper at first irritable, but later the disposition tends towards the phlegmatic. The pulse remains persistently over 100°, and the temperature swings violently between 100° and 104° F. Where there is simple exudation without suppuration, the symptoms are milder; perhaps the most important difference is the temperature, which is rarely over 102° F. Should the exuda- tion be present in the neighbourhood of the psoas and iliacus muscles the patient will usu- ally be noticed to keep the thigh flexed on the abdomen to relieve tension on the muscle. Care should in these cases be taken to prevent permanent contraction of the knee-joint by daily straightening the knee by lifting the foot. The course of the disease is as in other in- flammations, viz., resolution and absorption or abscess formation with subsequent rupture and evacuation of the pus. Absorption is extremely slow, and thickened deposits may be found in the pelvis many months after all symptoms have subsided. Abscess formation occurs in a considerable number of cases. It usually points from the seventh to the twelfth week. The situation where pointing may occur must neces- sarily vary according to the line of inflammatory exudation which is influenced by the lines of cleavage of the cellular tissue. Most frequently the area of infiltration is between the layers of the broad ligament; it then passes forward under the peritoneum to the anterior abdomxinal wall above Poupart's ligament, and then outwards and backwards into the iliac fossa. Abscesses developing posteriorly fill the pos- tero-lateral part of the pelvis, then pass along the psoas and iliacus, and then sink into the true pelvis. When the exudation passes an- teriorly, pointing usually takes place on the anterior abdominal wall slightly above Poupart's ligament. When posterior, however, burrowing is very extensive, and may pass through the sciatic notch or be found in Scarpa's triangle, having found its way along the course of the femoral vessels. Extremely rarely is it that an abscess ruptures into any of the hollow viscera; nearly all such cases are perimetric in their origin. Diagnosis.—This must depend on the recog- nition of the inflammatory exudation by the bimanual method of examination. In the ma- jority of instances from the implication of the parametrium the intra-vaginal portion of the cervix will be found fixed, shortened, or obliter- ated, while passing from it will be felt a difiiise brawny mass depressing the lateral fornix vaginje. Should the exudation have spread anteriorly, thePELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM 389 brawny swelling will be felt under the anterior abdominal wall above Poupart's ligament and extending into the iliac fossa, while in posterior exudations a diffuse fulness and hardness of the posterior pelvic segment will be felt on the affected side, and rectal examination will show an infiltration in close proximity to the gvit, and in some instances surrounding it. The uterus may, from the size of the exudation, be pushed to one or other side, but usually retains a certain amount of mobility. Examination may or may not be painful; firm pressure on the exuded mass usually elicits tenderness, par- ticularly should suppuration have commenced. Chronic exudations frequently are entirely pain- less on pressure. The differential diagnosis from perimetric exudations is sometimes extremely difficult, and will be described under that affec- tion. From other pelvic swellings, such as tumours and hajmatomata, the presence of con- stitutional symptoms of fever will distinguish in acute and subacute cases, while chronic inflam- matory deposits can usually be told by the previoiis history of fever, etc. The prognosis is usually favourable. When no suppuration occurs, the fever usually sub- sides in a few weeks, and complete absorption, though slow, eventually takes place. Pus for- mation is distinguished by the maintenance and increase of the fever, which is present until evacu- ation takes place. After the pus has escaped, convalescence almost immediately occurs, chronic sinuses being rarely met with. Extension of the inflammation to the peritoneum of a severe type rarely occurs. Treatment.—Septic inflammation having oc- curred, it is doubtful if treatment can materi- ally modify this course. Locally, hot vaginal douching, 110° to 115° F., is of value in assist- ing absorption should suppuration not have oc- curred, while the absorption of chronic inflam- matory deposits is expedited by ichthyol in the form of vaginal plugs (10 per cent in glycerine), and inunction over the pelvic brim (15 per cent in lanoline or 5 per cent in vasogen). Should suppuration occur, little can be done but wait till signs of pointing occur, then free incision and drainage for a few days will be curative. Usually pointing occurs above Pou- part's ligament externally, but in rare cases it may be in the vaginal fornix, hip, or perineum. Incision should never be attempted till distinct evidence of fluctuation is present. Dui-ing the prolonged period of suppuration great attention must be directed to the con- servation of strength by good feeding. The internal administration of drugs is A'alueless; opium is specially to be decried unless great paiii is present, as it only interferes with diges- tion and locks the bowels, regular evacuation of which is most important and must be carefully attended to. II. Pelvic Peritonitis Is the term used for localised inflammation of the peritoneum within the pelvis. It is also known as perimetritis, and is perhaps the most common pelvic inflammatory affection. Recent investigations tend to show that it is probably never primary in its origin, but is the result of extension of other pelvic disease, and it may thus be frequently looked upon as indicative of pelvic mischief which has hitherto given no indication of its presence. By far the commonest cause is inflammation of the mucosa of the Fallopian tubes. From its direct continuity, on the one hand, with the vagina and uterus, and the peritoneum on the other, extension of inflammation is prone to travel by this route, and thus infections of all types—septic, tubercular, or gonorrhoeal—by this means reach the peritoneum. New growths of the ovary and inflammation of that organ are known sources of peritonitis, probably due to the fact that the ovary is not covered by perito- neum, but lies free in the peritoneal cavity. Simple uterine fibro-myomata, on the other hand, being extra-peritoneal, seldom gives rise to pelvic inflammation. Simple injury without septic infection is probably never a cause. Direct extension of inflammation of septic origin may occur through the wall of the uterus, but more frequently travels along the tubes. Thus operations on the body of the uterus, such as curettage, if carelessly undertaken, are a common source of pelvic peritonitis. Opera- tions on the cervix more frequently give rise to cellulitis. Extension of inflammation from pelvic cellu- litis is common, as also from appendicitis. So- called chills at menstrual periods, and sudden arrests of that function, though commonly thought to result in pelvic inflammation, cannot be considered as probable causes. Pathology. — From the exudations of plastic lymph adhesions form the most characteristic feature of the disease. Along with the lymph serum is also effused, and together they may form a thickened mass of exudation. As the serum becomes absorbed the lymph stiffens, and a hardened mass remains. This may gradually be absorbed, but frequently permanent ad- hesions result. In some instances pus instead of serum is formed, and localised peritoneal abscesses follow. From the tube being the common seat of original inflammation, the situa- tion of the exudation, if small, is usually behind the uterus which, along with the tubes and ovaries, are matted together on one or both sides. Intra-peritoneal abscesses walled in by adherent organs tend to rupture into the hollow viscera, and form fistulte which may last for many months or even years. Being due to diseased conditions of the organs, recurrent390 PELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM attacks of pelvic peritonitis are common, and indeed form a valuable diagnostic indication of the presence of tubal disease which otherwise shows no signs of its presence. Clinical Features.—Acute pelvic pain as- sociated with fever and frequently vomiting, and more or less intestinal distension, are the characteristic symptoms. The patient lies on her back with the legs drawn up and assumes an anxious expression. The temperature is usually high, 103° F., but there is seldom mani- festations of a rigor. Micturition is frequently painful if the iniiammation has extended for- wards to the covering of the bladder. Diarrhoea is very common, though constipation may be present. After the subsidence of the acute attack, pain may only be experienced on certain movements, and the patient rapidly returns to apparent health; but frequently, as has been stated, re- current attacks are prone to occur. On examination during an acute attack there is extreme tenderness to touch over the lower abdomen, with great rigidity of the abdominal muscles. Bimanual examination is practically only possible under an anaesthetic, when the presence of the exudation, and fixation and matting will be made apparent. The retro- uterine pouch will be felt to be filled with exu- dation. The uterus may with difficulty be mapped out from the surrounding structures to which it is firmly fixed, or in some cases may be felt to be tilted above the symphysis pubis. Frequently, the entire vaginal roof appears as if it had been boarded over, while intravaginal cervix is free and movable. After the acute conditions have passed and the general exuda- tion been absorbed, there is usually left an area of thickening and adhesion at the original site of the inflammation. This may closely resemble a cellulitic exudation, and the differential dia- gnosis may prove extremely difficult. The history of the case, the presence of severe pain, and the free intravaginal cervix will, however, materially help in the differentiation. Prognosis.—The prognosis must at all times be guarded and indefinite. Though recovery from the acute attack may usually be looked for, the source of the inflammation still remains, and future attacks liable to occur. Further permanent adhesions causing much pain and discomfort are liable to pei'sist, while inter- ference with intestinal movements may cause much trouble with the bowels. Complete re- covery may take place, and this greatly depends on the origin of the inflammatory attack. Treatment.—This may be divided into medical and surgical. Medically, during an acute attack, our main endeavours must be directed towards the allevia- tion of pain by means of morphia and local application of hot fomentations. The bowels should be emptied by enemata and a brisk saline purge administered. The dieting and general treatment must be carried out as in general peritonitis {q.v.). Surgically, during an acute attack there is usually little to be done. Should there be evidence of fluid bulging into the vagina, this must be at once evacuated through the fornix; but beyond this, surgical interference is seldom called for during the acute stage. After the acute attack has subsided, the ab- sorption of exudation and removal of adhesions must be assisted by hot vaginal douching and the application of ichthyol by means of vaginal plugs, 10 per cent in glycerine and 15 per cent in lanoline, for abdominal inunction. If on vaginal examination any tenseness is discovered in the pouch of Douglas or the lateral fornices, a vaginal incision should be made to allow of the escape of pus. Drainage by gauze will be necessary for some time. The progress of an inflammation is frequently limited or arrested by such treatment. Furthermore, great relief from pain is bestowed on the patient, and the formation of fistula prevented. If the patient has suffered from repeated attacks, and on examination a swelling of such size is dis- covered as to render it probable that the patient's condition arises from an occluded and distended Fallopian tube, operation should be urged. As to the procedure now to be employed, opinions diff'er. Abdominal section, followed by the breaking down of adhesions, and the ligature and removal of the implicated tube, is the older and more generally adopted measure. In 1886, Pean first advocated removal of the uterus and the diseased appendages by the vaginal route. This method has now many advocates. Others leave the uterus untouched and content them- selves with removal of the diseased tube or tubes per vaginam. Against this it is urged, that as the disease in most cases extends to the tubes, and through or by them to the pelvic peritoneum from the uterine mucosa, if the latter is not removed, the original source of mis- chief remains to continue the patient's distress. Cysts and Tumours of the Broad Ligament Malformation of the broad ligament is a rare condition generally associated with a similar abnormality aff'ecting the ovaries. Fallopian tubes, and uterus. The broad ligaments may also be entirely absent or rudimentary, or un- equally developed on both sides. Cysts of the broad ligament may arise from the hilum of the ovary, from which they spread between the layers of the broad ligament; or they may originate in the broad ligament inde- pendently of the ovary. These may be situated on the surface of the ligament, or may be deeply placed between its folds. The origin of the superficial cysts is unknown; those lying at a deeper plane spring in many cases from changes in the tubules of the parovarium. The formerPELVIS—DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE AND PERITONEUM 391 are small and frequently multilocular; the latter are thin walled, and, as a rule, unilocular. The contents of these cysts is a clear or opalescent fluid of a specific gravity 1002-6, albumin free, but holding chlorides in solution. They are lined by ciliated columnar or by cubical epi- thelium. Doran and Sutton have described a papillary cyst of the broad ligament identical with a similar tumour of the ovary. In rare cases cysts have arisen by distension of the hydatid of Morgagni; those are small and clini- cally unimportant. Hydatid or echinococcal cysts have been described as arising in the pelvic cellular tissue, and always in close relation to the intestines. The invasion of the parasite results in a chronic inflammation characterised by round elastic tumours, which are slightly movable and not painful. A positive diagnosis can only be made by a microscopical examination of the contents of the cysts. If the tumour be situated low down in the pelvis it should be attacked by the vaginal route, the sac emptied, the lining membrane removed, and thin gauze introduced into the cavity. When the peritoneal cavity has to be opened into, Pozzi advises that the opening over the cyst should be packed with gauze from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Adhesions form in this period, after which the cyst can be opened without danger of infecting the peritoneal cavity. Varicocele of the broad ligament is most fre- quently met with on the left side, for the reason that the left ovarian vein has a long course to run before it joins the left renal vein. Further- more, the left ovarian vein is larger than the right, as it is joined by two colico-spermatic veins from the descending colon. The varicose masses may form a tumour as large as a walnut. Clinically they manifest themselves by sensations of dragging and pain in the pelvis, which symp- toms are immediately relieved by the patient assuming the recumbent posture. Thrombosis sometimes occurs, and phleboliths are not un- frequently found in these tumours. Abdominal section and removal of the masses between liga- tures is the correct treatment. Actinomycosis of the Broad Ligament.—In a case described by Grainger Stewart and Muir, invasion by the organism seems to have occurred per vaginam; the Fallopian tubes, ovaries, and pelvic cellular tissue were secondarily in- volved. LipomoB of the meso-saljnnx are of not rare occurrence. They are usually found near the under surface of the tube; they vary in size from a bean to a walnut, and are of no clinical importance. Fibromata and fibromyojiiata of the broad ligament are occasionally found independent of the uterus or ovary. Non-striped muscle fibres occur in the broad and round ligaments, and from those such tumours arise. They occur most frequently on the right side, and rarely attain to a large size. Sometimes they are pedunculated, but more commonly are sessile. Sarcoma and carcinoma of the broad ligaments are usually the result of extension of the disease from adjacent parts, but in some rare cases the lesions have been primarily in the broad liga- ments. Diagnosis can only be made by micro- scopical examination. Pelvis—Hsematocele and Hsematoma I. Intra-peritoneal Form of Hsematocele. —Of this two varieties are distinguished, differ- ing only in the rapidity with which they are formed. If the hsemorrhage be abundant no definite tumour is formed, and as a rule the patient rapidly succumbs. This form is known as a " non - encysted hfematocele." If the haemorrhage is comparatively small in quantity, or slow in accumulating, it gravitates towards the pouch of Douglas, where its presence pro- duces a localised peritonitis, which results in the formation of adhesions, and subsequently of a cyst. The walls of such a cyst are formed anteriorly by the uterus, posteriorly by the rectum and the peritoneum lining the posterior wall of the pelvis, latei-ally by the utero-sacral ligaments. The roof is supplied by the coils of the intestines which have become adherent to the fundus uteri, the broad and round liga- ments, the ovaries and tubes, and the peri- toneum lining the lateral and posterior walls of the pelvis. II. Extra-peritoneal Form of Hematocele OR HiEMATOMA.—The hsemorrhage in such a con- dition is found in the cellular tissue which sur- rounds the uterus and the other pelvic organs. The commonest site is between the layers of the broad ligaments, as the blood-vessels in this situa- tion are large, and, being surrounded by looser areolar tissue than elsewhere, are least sup- ported. Sometimes the blood invades the cellu- lar sheath which surrounds the rectum. Owing to the greater resistance to the escape of blood the tumours of this group are generally much smaller than those of the intra-peritoneal class ; but in some cases the pressure of the effused blood is sufiicient to strip the peritoneum from its usual attachments, and it may be sufficiently powerful to rupture this membrane, and a secondary hsemorrhage may occur into the peritoneal cavity. Causes may be divided into two classes. First, hsemorrhage arising from rupture of one of the various forms of extra-uterine gestation. This is by far the commonest source of pelvic htematoceles, and some have gone so far as to regard it as being their only origin. Second, intra-abdominal hsemorrhage may arise from injuries to the viscerse or rupture of an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta or coeliac axis. Such haemorrhages naturally gravitate to the pelvis. Again, regurgitation of menstrual blood through the Fallopian tubes is regardedPELVIS—HEMATOCELE AND HEMATOMA 392 by many authorities as a possible cause. Rup- ture of a varicose vein in the pampiniform plexus is described as originating a hsematoma by Bandl, Scanzoni, and others. Cullingworth describes a case where such a condition arose from rupture of a varicose vein inside the Fallopian tube. Dalbeau, Bernatz, and others hold that a hsemorrhagic type of pelvic peri- tonitis exists which is not a serious condition, as the bleeding is small in amount. Finally, some causes arise from morbid conditions of the blood, such as occur in purpura and following the exanthemata. Symptoms.—The symptoms of a non-encysted hjematocele are those of a ruptured extra-uterine gestation (see article " Ectopic Gestation "), and need no further notice here. Those of the en- cysted variety are to some extent the same, but less in severity—this, of course, being modified in accordance with the suddenness of onset and the amount of blood extravasated. In cases where the effusion is considerable the symptoms approximate to those of the non- encysted type, followed by signs and symptoms of localised peritonitis. On the other hand, when the symptoms develop gradually, and where the effusion is small in amount, serious difficulty exists in coming to a correct diagnosis as to the condition. Some time must elapse before the blood becomes so consolidated as to be defined ; further variations occur in firmness according to the duration of the tumour. Ex- amination per rectum and per vaginam should be made, as thus in the intra-peritoneal form the best idea as to the size, consistence, and relations of the tumour can be obtained. When the effusion has occurred into the pouch of Douglas the uterus is pushed upwards and for- wards, while the posterior wall of the vagina is moved downwards and in extreme cases may reach the vulva. In the extra-peritoneal form the tumour will be felt lateral in position and fixing the uterus, and if seen in the latter stages the diagnosis between this condition and pelvic cellulitis may be impossible. The history of onset is helpful sometimes. Diagnosis, whether intra- or extra-peritoneal, is determined by the phenomena of internal htemorrhage (see " Ectopic Gestation "). Rup- ture into the peritoneal cavity of a pyosalpinx or pelvic abscess may give rise to very similar symptoms, but in such cases the resulting peri- tonitis is very much more intense and the pain more intolerable. The difficulty of a differen- tial diagnosis between long-standing pelvic hfematocele and pelvic cellulitis and peritonitis has already been alluded to. Pelvic hsematocele is much rarer than pelvic cellulitis, and the latter is usually a consequence of parturition. The former tumour is soft at first, gradually becoming hard; the latter hard from its inception. Febrile symptoms follow the hsematocele, but pi-ecede the cellulitis. Tumours of the uterus and ovaries sometimes simulate haematoceles, but they are to be differentiated by the absence of urgent symp- toms at the onset, slow growth, better defini- tion, and generally by their mobility. Sudden haemorrhage into the cavity of a large ovarian cyst may produce symptoms very akin to those of a hfematocele, but in such a rare condition the existence of a tumour previous to the effusion could be ascertained. Extra-peritoneal haemorrhage is to be differen- tiated from intra-peritoneal haemorrhage by the fact that the former lies to the side of the uterus, the latter posterior to that organ. The former has its boundaries more sharply defined, and the uterus is pushed to the opposite side. Excluding rupture of an extra-uterine gestation, the determination of the cause of the haemor- rhage is often difficult. Prognosis.—When arising from rupture of an ectopic pregnancy the prognosis has already been considered (see article " Ectopic Gestation," vol. iii.). In cases arising from other causes prognosis on the whole is good, provided proper treatment has been adopted. Danger exists from the possibility of suppuration occurring in the blood cyst from chronic peritonitis, also from the extensive formation of adhesions, which in turn may act injuriously on the ovaries, tube, and bowels. Treatment. — Non - encysted extravasations when arising from rupture of an ectopic preg- nancy do not require consideration here. But as practically all intra-peritoneal effusions are at first non-encysted, the desirability of lapar- otomy must depend on a consideration of the condition of each individual case. Where operative procedures are not deemed necessary, the patient should be made to assume the recumbent posture. Pain and restlessness may be combated by full doses of morphia. The local application of an ice-bag over the hypo- gastrium is a valuable method of checking the haemorrhage. Internally lead acetate, ergot, suprarenal extract (5 grains of the medullary portion of the gland) may be administered. The patient should be kept for some time on a low diet; all hot drinks should be avoided. Frequent examinations of the patient are un- desirable, as in fact are all procedures which prevent the absolute repose demanded in the early non-operative treatment of pelvic hsema- tocele. When febrile and other symptoms point to suppuration, evacuation of the pus should be effected, and if possible per vaginam. Free drainage should be obtained, care, how- ever, being taken that existing adhesions are not broken down lest the peritoneal cavity becomes invaded. When the condition has become chronic the patient should avoid all severe strains or exertions lest the haemorrhage should return; complete rest should be insisted on during each menstruation. Attention to thePELVIS—HEMATOCELE AND HJEMATOMA 393 bowels is necessary. For anaemia iron is indi- cated, and the administration of potas. iodidi helps in the absorption of the effusion; this may be assisted further by the application of blisters over the seat of the lesion. Pelvotomy. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Stone in the Kidney, Treatment). PelyCOtomy. — Division of the pelvic bones in difficult labour. See Labour, Ob- stetric Operations (Symphysiotomy). Pelzer'S Method.—A method of in- ducing premature labour by injecting glycerine (1 to 2 oz.) into the cervical canal and lower part of the uterus. PemphigfOid.—Resembling pemphigus {q.v.). Pemphig'US. See also CuNjUNCTivA, Diseases of [Degenerations, Pemphigus); Der- matitis Herpetiformis {Synonyms) ; Fluids, Examination of Pathological {BuIIcb of Pem- phigus) ; Foot and Mouth Disease {Diagnosis); Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation and Trophic Disorders); Impetigo {Impetigo Contagiosa); Influenza {Effects on Different Systems, Skin); Leucocytosis {Eosinophile); Malingering (Varieties, Cutaneous); Nails, Affections of (Diseases of the Skin); New - born Infant (Pemphigus Neonatorum); Skin, Bacteriology of (Pemphigus) ; Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Pemphigus Contagiosus). Definition. — A disease characterised by a generalised eruption of vesicles and bullae, usually arising from apparently healthy skin, and always containing clear serum at first. It will in all probability be found when we begin to know something more of the etiology and pathology of the group of symptoms which we at present collect under the name of pem- phigus, that we have hitherto included several distinct diseases under a single name. Some advance was made by the separation by Tilbury Fox, and later by Duhring, of the disease now known as dermatitis herpetiformis, though the advantage here gained is not so great as it should be, owing to the fact that complete agreement does not exist as to the conception of this disease. There remain after the separation of this disease and those eruptions which are merely phases of other well-defined diseases, such as pemphigus syphiliticus and leprosus, better called bullous syphilis and leprosy (see under these diseases), five fairly distinct varieties of pemphigus:— (1) Pemphigus acutus neonatorum. (2) Pemphigus acutus malignus. (3) Pemphigus chronicus vulgaris. (4) Pemphigus foliaceus. (5) Pemphigus vegetans. In this article will also be described the disease previously known as congenital trau- matic pemphigus, but now more usually and appropriately as epidermolysis bullosa heredi- taria. (1) Pemphigus Acutus Neonatorum. — One or two cases have been recorded in which the child has been born with the eruption already developed, but more usually it appears from the third to the fourteenth day. The eruption consists entirely of round or oval bullae, which appear suddenly on previously normal skin, and are at first tense, crystal clear, and filled with a straw-coloured fluid. There is usually a very slight zone of hyper- aemia around the blebs, but this does not become marked unless the case becomes in- fected with pyogenic organisms. The younger the child the more fragile are the bullae, probably from the extreme delicacy of the horny layer. In very young children, there- fore, all the bullae occurring on parts which are subject to pressure or friction are rapidly broken, and large areas of excoriated skin result. The denuded surface, after bursting of the bulla, is red and weeping, but in un- complicated cases it becomes rapidly covered by a new horny layer. There seems to be no special site of pre- dilection for the occurrence of the bullae, and the disease usually runs its course without fever or any other disturbance of the general health in from one to eight weeks. Sometimes, how- ever, the cases are severe, and become compli- cated by intestinal catarrh, marasmus, or lung disease. Etiology and Pathology.—There seems to be little doubt that the disease is septic in its nature, but whether it is definitely contagious or not is a matter of uncertainty. In one case a woman suffering from a septic affection gave birth to a child which exhibited the eruption at birth. In another case the child developed the eruption while being suckled by its mother, who was suffering from a septic affection. Regular little epidemics of the disease have been observed to follow the practice of one physician or midwife. Cultivation from the serum of the blebs has produced a golden-yellow staphylococcus indis- tinguishable morphologically from the ordinary staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, but on inocu- lation into the skin of a healthy person it gave rise to a perfectly clear vesicle. The pathological anatomy is very simple. The bulla is produced by the elevation of the horny layer, the stratum mucosum remaining almost perfect beneath. There is a slight oedema of the true skin and exudation round the vessels, but this not a marked feature. Diagnosis.—This is usually not a matter of great difficulty, the chief eruption from which it is to be distinguished being the bullousPEMPHIGUS 394 eruption of congenital syphilis. The fact that the syphilide is always situated upon the summit of a well - marked infiltration, and practically invariably attacks the palms and soles, which are spared in pemphigus neona- torum with almost equal regularity, is generally sufficient, but the other symptoms of syphilis and the general state of the child's health would be additional factors. Treatment.—This consists simply of protect- ing the skin with some bland and non-toxic antiseptic, either in the form of a powder, such as equal parts of powdered boric acid and starch; or if extensive excoriation be present, the boric acid ointment of the Pharmacopoeia is perferable. Great care should be taken to prevent undue loss of heat, and the possibility of the child's taking cold. (2) Pemphigus Acutus Malignus.—For the knowledge of this disease we are chiefly indebted to the work of Pernet and Bulloch. The disease usually occurs in those who have to handle meat or skin, and hence is most common in butchei's. In some cases there has been a definite history of a small wound on the hand a month or two before the outbreak of the eruption. The eruption itself has no particular character- istics which would serve to distinguish it from a severe case of pemphigus vulgaris, but it is accompanied by a severe constitutional dis- turbance. The symptoms are fever, albumin- uria, vomiting, diarrhoea, and general exhaustion; in fact, we have before us the clinical picture of a severe intoxication. The disease is generally fatal (75 per cent of Pernet's collected cases), and its duration varies from twenty-four hours to about three weeks. As regards its etiology and pathology the fact that it occurs in those who are in frequent contact with the skin and flesh of animals, together with the frequent history of a precedent wound, would point to its originating in a local inoculation. Demme has found in the serum of the clear unruptured bullae a diplococcus which grew in a rosette form on agar, and did not liquefy gelatine very readily, and this discovery has been confirmed by Bleibtreu, Bulloch, and others. The coccus was patho- genic to guinea-pigs when injected into the pleura, but did not give rise to any definite changes when injected subcutaneously. The pathological anatomy does not differ from that of pemphigus vulgaris sufliciently to require separate description. Prognosis.—From what has already been said it may be judged that the outlook is almost hopeless, roughly three-quarters of the cases ending fatally within a very short time. Treatment.—This should be by the ordinary methods of combating cases of septicsemia. The diet should be liberal, and possibly alcohol may be needed. Of internal drugs, quinine appears to have been of service in some cases. Local treatment should consist of treating the patient on a water-bed (or, if possible, perhaps in the continuous bath) and dressing the skin with absorbent and antiseptic applications. These requirements are well supplied by Lassar's paste (R Zinci oxidi, pulv. amyli, aa oij, acidi salicy- lici, gr. x.; paraffini mollis, 3ss). (3) Pemphigus Chronicus Vulgaris.—The disease may begin either insidiously or suddenly. In the latter case it is usually accompanied by shivering, malaise, and fever, and these symptoms may be more or less continuous or frequently repeated throughout the course of the disease. The eruption consists of a crop of vesicles and bullae, usually arising from apparently healthy skin, more rarely appearing on the site of a pre-existent erythema. The individual lesions vary in size from that of a small pea to that of a hen's egg, or sometimes even larger. The eruption is usually general- ised from the first, and the lesions may be either scattered without any ordinary arrangement, or they may show a tendency to occur in circular groups (Pemphigus confertus). The typical bulla when first formed is tense, hemispherical, or oval, and contains a clear yellowish fluid. After a short time, however, the contents become opalescent from the emigration of leucocytes, and the wall becomes flaccid from the evapora- tion and absorption of the fluid. In some cases a slight amount of blood may be effused into the blister in its early stage, giving a pink tinge to the contents. This condition is common, occurring usually in some of the lesions, and is to be carefully distinguished from those rare cases in which marked haemorrhage takes place into all the bullae (P. haemorrhagicus). As the fluid of the bulla disappears, the roof flattens down and adheres by means of the albuminous remains of the former's contents to the floor, thus forming a scab. This falls off in a day or two, leaving a hyperaemic patch of skin, which may become pigmented later. The period of development and involution of the individual lesion usually lasts a week or ten days, but the disease is kept up by the appearance of new crops of bullae. In some cases, probably from secondary infection, certain peculiar changes take place in the floor of the blister. Thus it may become covered with a greyish-white false membrane (P. diphtheriticus), or may be at- tacked by a progressive gangrene (P. gangrae- nosus). Both of these sub-varieties are ex- tremely fatal. The course of the disease varies greatly, and the attack may either pass off within a couple of months or may be prolonged, with remissions and exacerbations for years. In mild cases the general health is not much disturbed—sore- ness, burning, and, more rarely, itching being the chief symptoms ; but if the rash is very severe, symptoms of exhaustion from pain,PEMPHIGUS 395 sleeplessness, and loss of heat and fluid, soon show themselves, and the patient finally dies from lung trouble, gastro-enteritis, or other intercurrent disease. Between these two ex- tremes all varieties in chronicity are found, and even in cases which apparently recover in a short time relapses are common. The chief complications of ordinary pemphigus are the implication of the mucous membranes of the mouth, vagina, conjunctivae (for a description of pemphigus conjunctivie see vol. ii. p. 213), and nephritis, the last-named being of very ominous significance. (4) Pemphigus Foliaceus.—This form may either commence as such from the first, or may supervene in a rebellious case of ordinary pem- phigus. It is characterised by the appearance of ill-formed, flaccid bulte with semi-purulent contents, or sometimes the epidermis is merely detached without being raised, so that it is hardly correct to speak of bullae at all. Instead of drying up into a scab, as was described under simple pemphigus, the lesion spreads peri- pherally after the rupture of the covering, and no fresh, sound epidermis is formed from the floor of the original lesion. Thus the eruption becomes in time almost or quite universal, and the body is covered with shreds of partially detached epidermis, moist, red, exuding patches and brownish crusts. At this period infections become common, and boils and abscesses are of frequent occurrence. The patient develops a peculiar sweetish and most terribly nauseous odour, which is probably due to the decom- position of the albuminous discharge. In this stage vesicles are with difficulty, even if at all, recognisable. The whole epidermis appears to have become so rotten that the roof of any developing blister becomes broken at once. All the epidermic appendages become involved in the disease, the hair falls out, and the nails become broken and frequently lost. The mucous membranes are also attacked, so that swallowing becomes a matter of difficulty, and the patient, by this time intensely emaciated, lies almost immovable, the slightest alteration of position causing fresh tears and cracks in the epidermis, and being accompanied by acute pain. Fever is constantly present, sleep and appetite are almost completely lost, and the patient finally succumbs to diarrhoea or pul- monary congestion. (5) Pemphigus Vegetans.—This disease was originally described by Neumann in 1876, similar cases having been previously looked upon as syphilitic. At the present time opinion is somewhat divided as to its nature, Unna preferring to separate it entirely from pemphigus under the name of Erythema bullosum vegetans, while others still believe it to be merely a variety of pemphigus. The disease is an extremely rare one, about thirty undoubted cases only having been re- ported. It begins usually in the mouth, and may be limited to this region for some time (one month in one of Herxlieimer's cases). Later, bulhe which do not differ very strikingly from those of ordinary pemphigus, begin to make their appearance. There is, however, a peculiarity of distribution noticeable, in that the lesions seem to have a special predilection for the axillte, genitals, and flexures of the thighs. There seems to be some doubt as to the appearance of the primitive lesion, Unna stating that it begins as " a red spot the size of a threepenny bit to a shilling, which may extend in one or two days to the size of the palm of the hand. It has sharply-margined, erysipelas-like borders, and there appear in the centre large thin-walled blebs, which soon dry up spontaneously into crusts." Kaposi also described them as begin- ning upon a red base in the form of lentil-sized vesicles, and says that in the first day or two the base resembles a wheal. Croker, Herx- heimer, and others, however, find that the bullae have no special characteristics at first. After the bullae or vesicles are once formed they rapidly become cloudy, and usually dry up or burst in a day or two. The floor of the blister does not then form a new horny layer, but remains moist, red, and weeping, or may become covered with a brownish crust. Meanwhile the process of vesicle formation spreads serpiginously at the edge of the former bulla, so that in time huge areas of skin become denuded of their supra-papillary epithelium. These denuded areas then begin to take on active growth, shared in both by the epidermis and papillae, so that the characteristic condy- loma-like structure is produced. This process is naturally most marked in the flexures, and the skin in these regions is constantly exuding a mucoid fluid with an extremely nauseating odour. The hair becomes thin, and the nails brittle and often lost. Owing to the progressive im- plication of the mouth, nose, and pharynx, the ability of the patient to swallow nourishment is seriously interfered with. Emaciation from this cause, as well as from pain, sleeplessness, and chronic septic poisoning, becomes therefore extreme, and the patient almost invariably dies from exhaustion, nephritis, or lung trouble. Herxheimer has called attention to the pres- ence of muscular tremors even during rest as symptoms of this and other severe forms of pemphigus. Etiology and Pathology.—As has been already pointed out, there is little doubt that both varieties of acute pemphigus are of an infective nature. In the other forms little is known about the cause. The disease seems to aftect both sexes about equally, but is more frequent in children and in young adults than in people396 PEMPHIGUS of more advanced age. Shock to the nervous system and severe chills seem to have an in- fluence in its production, one case of P. vegetans having begun with multiple onychia after fishing in ice-cold water. The fact that bullous aifec- tions not infrequently occur in the course of nervous disease has led to the theory that pemphigus is itself a disease of nervous origin, and Schwimmer found degeneration of Goll's column in one case, and infiltration round the vessels of the posterior horn and posterior root in three cases. Petrini, Mott, and others have found degeneration of the peripheral nerves. On the other hand, careful post-mortem ex- aminations have in numerous cases revealed no disease whatever of the central or peripheral nervous system. The search for organisms has, up to the present, given no positive result in the chronic cases. The blood and the serum of the bullae have been found to contain an abnormally large percentage of eosinophile cells, but since this condition has been found associated with several other diseases it has lost to a large degree the interest which was at first attached to it. The anatomy of the lesion is still a matter of some uncertainty, some observers maintaining that the bulla is formed by the separation of the horny layer from the stratum mucosum, others that the entire suprapapillary epithelium is raised from the corium. The probability is that the separation does not always take place at the same level; but in the lesions which I have had the opportunity of examining the separation has taken place between the basal layer of the epithelium and the tops of the papillae. The other morbid conditions found are of too general a nature to be useful in affording further knowledge of the nature of the disease, such as dilatation of the superficial blood and lymphatic vessels, oedema of the papillae, and slight infiltration of round cells around the vessels. In pemphigus foliaceus these changes are far more marked than in ordinary chronic pemphigus, while in pemphi- gus vegetans there is superadded an enormous overgrowth of the epithelium and a marked infiltration of corium with round cells. The diagnosis of ordinary well-marked pem- phigus usually presents no difficulties, though in some cases it may be impossible to distinguish it at first from Dermatitis herpetiformis (q.v.). The chief distinguishing points from this disease are: (1) The absence of herpetiform grouping; (2) the uniformity of the lesion, the bullaj springing from normal or slightly hyperaemic skin, no papules, wheals, or erythe- matous patches preceding the lesion. It should be noted that the bullae of pemphigus leave hyperaemic patches, but these are easily dis- tinguished. From erythema multiforme the same points, with the addition of the more acute course of the erythema and the tendency to concentric arrangement, should be sufficient. From the bullous syphilide of infants the dia- gnosis has already been given, and the same points, namely, the presence of the marked infiltration in the floor of the bulla, should render mistakes unlikely. The bullous lesion in leprosy may be distinguished by the presence of areas of auiBsthesia and the thickening of the large subcutaneous nerve trunks. In epidermolysis bullosa (described below) the definite action of trauma in producing the blisters, the fact that the disease is congenital in origin, and the common presence of scarring are the chief differential points. P7'ognosis.—In simple uncomplicated pem- phigus the prognosis appears to be good for the individual attack, but is doubtful for the ultimate health of the patient. The eruption is usually much more amenable to treatment in young patients, and it appears that permanent cures are more fi'equent in early life. The presence of marked constitutional symptoms, the affection of mucous membranes, and the presence of muscular tremors, should suggest a cautious prognosis. In pemphigus foliaceus and vegetans the disease has been up to the present so almost uniformly fatal, that the prognosis must be admitted to be hopeless. Treatment.—-The patient should in all cases be placed upon a water-bed, unless facilities are present for treating him by the continuous bath method, and this would only be necessary in very severe cases. Diet should be liberal, but alcohol is not usually indicated unless signs of circulatory failure are present. There appear to be several drugs which are extremely useful in alleviating suffering, and thus indirectly benefiting the patient, but arsenic stands out pre-eminent for its power of controlling the outbreaks of the eruption. It frequently needs to be given in full doses up to fifteen minims of the liquor three times a day. Some authorities prefer to give the drug in pill form; but this appears to possess no advantages, while it is certainly more difficult to ensure the free dilution which is so important a factor in its administration. Next in value to arsenic come quinine and opium, both of which occasionally exercise a distinctly curative effect. Lastly, phenacetin and its congeners are oc- casionally useful in relieving the distress and procuring sleep. Locally, the bullae may be punctured as soon as they become tense, and the fluid allowed to drain away. Every care should be taken to keep all excoriated places from becoming in- fected, while at the same time strong antiseptics must not be applied on account of their irritat- ing qualities, and also because of the danger of absorption. In most cases Lassar's zinc paste (given above) meets all requirements admirably, though some patients are more comfortable when dusted over with a powder containing 25 per397 PEMPHIGUS cent of boric acid. Whichever of these applica- tions be used, it must be applied thickly, so as to soak up all discharge at once. Epidermolysis Bullosa Hereditaria.—This disease was separated off from true pemphigus in 1882 by Goldscheider. The name was, how- ever, suggested by Kobner, and is not perfectly satisfactory, inasmuch as the disease, although frequently a family affection, is by no means always hereditary. The condition is usually noticed soon after birth, and not infrequently during the first washing of the child. The skin " comes off" with the friction of the towel, leaving a raw, weeping surface beneath. A day or two later it is noticed that blisters are oc- casionally present, though in the early period of the child's existence any bullse formed are so quickly ruptured that they may escape observa- tion. As the child grows older and begins to move about it is found that the slightest friction or pressvire is sufficient to cause a bulla to rise, often with blood-stained contents. The child is henceforth almost constantly exhibiting large areas of skin denuded of its surface epithelium, and, since the epidermis is lost to a great depth, scarring of a superficial nature is the rule, and contiguous surfaces not uncommonly heal to- gether. Thus in a series of three cases in one family of children all had acquired more or less webbed fingers and toes. Some parts of the body are, of course, more exposed to trauma than others, and consequently show the ravages of the disease more markedly than others. Thus in addition to the webbing of the fingers already mentioned, a condition only seen in severe cases, the nails are almost invariably broken, deformed, or totally lost. Besides the skin, the mucous membranes may also be affected, and in more than one case it has been noted that the patient has suffered from haematemesis, with the vomit- ing of oesophageal casts. The teeth are in most cases lost very early in life, owing to an abnormal brittleness and tendency to caries. Etiology and Pathology.—Little is known on this subject. The disease occurs very distinctly both as a family affection and in sporadic cases. Descent from the father or mother has been ob- served, but it is more usual for several members of the same generation to be affected. As regards the pathology, some observers claim to have discovered lesions in the superficial blood-vessels, while others have described a peculiarly unstable condition of the basal layer of the epithelium. I am inclined to think that in neither case was the anatomical abnormality found the basis of the disease, but rather the effect of bygone traumatic lesions. Thus in endeavouring to obtain an apparently normal piece of skin from a patient, I found that the whole surface was so studded with fine, small, superficial scars that this was impossible, and in the piece that I eventually examined I found only a slight mantle of cells round the vessels, especially marked under a spot where the epidermis was markedly thinned by diminution of the stratum mucosum, and which corresponded to one of the fine scars. Such a condition I have never seen in any other disease, and can only describe it as an epidermic scar. The treatment of this affection is naturally unavailing, and all that can be done is to see that the child is as far as possible protected, and that later on it never has food at too high a temperature or too highly spiced. If lesions occur on the fingers, careful bandaging must be resorted to to prevent any healing together. There appears to be some tendency to out- grow the affection, but I am unaware of any recorded case in which the condition has entirely ceased. The diagnosis is simple. A pemphigoid erup- tion beginning in the earliest period of life, un- accompanied by any deviation from health, and called forth by trifling injury, makes a clinical picture which can be mistaken for no other disease. Pendeloques.—The pendulous append- ages on the neck in goats and pigs, perhaps represented by cervical auricles in the human subject. Pendulous Abdomen. — The for- ward and downward projection of the anterior abdominal wall and contained organs found in relaxed conditions, e.g. in the later months of pregnancy in some cases. See Labour, Pro- longed {Causes). Penjdeh Sore. See Furunculus Orientalis. Penici Ilium.—A variety of fungus (pencil-fungus), e.g. penicillium glaucum or common mildew. Penis, Surg^ical Affections of the. See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases OY {Malformations, etc.); Circumcision; Eczema {Penis); Rectum, Diseases of {Stricture, Symp- toms, Pain in Penis); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Impotence); Teratology {Double Penis, Diphallus). Inflammatory Affections Balanitis or Balano-Posthitis.—This consists in inflammation of the glans-penis and inner sur- face of the prepuce. It is common in dirty people, and is predisposed to by a long foreskin, in which secretions decompose and set up in- flammation. It has been divided into venereal, catarrhal, diphtheritic, gouty, herpetic, and diabetic. The venereal form is due to retained discharges of gonorrhoea and venereal sores. The catarrhal form is due to decomposition of retained smegma in phimosis. Gouty balano-398 PENIS, SUKGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE posthitis consists of red and raw patches, more on the glans than the prepuce. It is probably a form of gouty eczema. The patches may ulcerate and cause secondary phimosis. Dia- betic balano-posthitis is similar to the moist eczema found in the female genitals. Caver7iitis.—This is an inflammation of the erectile tissues, generally due to erysipelas, cellulitis, or injury. A form of chronic indura- tion of the erectile tissue occurs in gouty sub- jects, and consists in local patches of induration behind the glans or in front of the pvibes. Eicord has described a similar condition after gonorrhoea and syphilis. Cellulitis may occur in the penis from inflam- mation within the urethra or without. The former is due to gonorrhoea, or inflammation of the glands and lacunae of the urethra; the latter to phimosis, balanitis, injury, etc. Elephantiasis rarely attacks the penis alone. Erysipelas may attack the penis, usually by extension from other parts. Gangrene of the penis may occur after specific fevers, such as smallpox, typhoid, and typhus. Local causes may be phimosis, sloughing, balanitis, paraphimosis, phagedenic sores, or injury by rings, etc. Gout.—Acute gout of the penis was described by Paget, occurring as a gouty urethritis, with swelling and heat of the penis. Chronic inter- stitial cavernitis and gouty balanitis are other conditions due to gout. Gummata occasionally occur in the penis, but are rare. Herpes Progenitalis. — This consists in the development of vesicles on an inflamed base, either on the glans or the inner side of the prepuce, occasionally on the outer surface of the prepuce. The vesicles dry up in a few days, leaving small scabs. If irritated the affection may suppurate. Sometimes it is pre- ceded by severe neuralgic pains. The disease has a tendency to recur. The diagnosis of herpes from chancre is seldom difficult unless the vesicles have suppurated. It must be re- membered, however, that herpes may furnish a breach of surface through which the syphilitic virus may penetrate and develop a chancre at the site of the herpes. Treatment consists in cleanliness and simple dusting powder. Lymphangitis occurs as a complication of gonorrhoea and venereal sores. Neuralgia of the penis occurs in gout, accord- ing to Paget. Tuberculous ulcers may occur on the penis, sometimes from inoculation of a circumcision wound. New Growths 1. Simple. — The chief of these are nsevi, cartilage, and bone, sebaceous cysts, horns, and papillomata. The occurrence of cartilage and bone is rare, and in most cases due to calcifica- tion and gouty thickening. In some cases true osseous tissue has been found in the septum between the corpora cavernosa. Velpeau has recorded a case of a bony prolongation from the pubes, forming a true os penis. Sebaceous cysts sometimes occur in a long foreskin. Horns may arise from a wart or a sebaceous cyst. They are of two forms : one a flat plate, the other a projection, which may be an inch or more long. They should be removed by excision, as they may give rise to epithelioma. Papillomata may occur as simple warts on the penis or as venereal warts on the glans and foreskin. Venereal warts are thought by some to be due to irri- tation from venereal or leucorrhoeal discharges, by others to be independent of them. In the female they may attain a large size, forming pedunculated masses round the vulva. They should be excised either by the knife or thermo- cautery. Malignant Tumours; Epithelioma.—Accord- ing to Paget, this forms 1 per cent of all cancers. It begins on the glans and prepuce, and may be superficial or deep. It usually arises as a warty excrescence which ulcerates, infiltrates the adjacent tissues, and usually assumes a cauliflower form of growth. Another form begins as a deep-seated lump of induration. Epithelioma may also arise in a chancrous ulcer, or in the healed scar of a chancre. Microscopi- cally epithelioma of the penis is of the squamous form. Implication of the lymphatic glands is a grave complication, but visceral metastases are rare. It is rare before forty-five years of age. Predisposing causes are phimosis, venereal sores, gouty balanitis, and injuries. Diagnosis.—-This is most important to make in the pre-cancerous stage, and all doubtful warty growths should be removed early. A foul discharge between the papillse and a fixed and indurated base suggests malignant disease. From indurated chancre the diagnosis is usually easy, since the chancre is an ulcerated induration, while the epithelioma is an indurated ulceration. The deep-seated form of epithelioma may, however, be diSicult to diagnose. Sarcoma. — This may occur as a primary sarcoma of the erectile tissues or secondary to sarcoma of the testicle. The sarcoma is usually round and spindle celled. A few cases of melanotic sarcoma have been recorded. The only treatment is extirpation of the penis. Chief Operations on the Penis Amputation of the Penis.—This is indicated in cases of epithelioma and sarcoma. The operation may be partial or complete. Partial Amputation.—This is best done by a flap operation. A narrow-bladed knife is entered well behind the disease, between the corpus spongiosum and the corpora cavernosa, and a short inferior flap is cut. From this the urethra is dissected out. A dorsal flap is cut399 PENIS, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE from the dorsum and sides of the penis, and the corpora cavernosa divided at the point of transfixion. After stopping haemorrhage the dorsal flap is punctured and the urethra drawn through it, sht up, and stitched. The flaps are then united. This method secures a skin covering for the corpora cavernosa. Total Extirpation. —This operation is required for severe cases extending back to the scrotum. The scrotum is split along the raphe and the corpus spongiosum dissected out, cut through, and enough left to bring out at the perineum. By a blunt dissector the crura and capsule are detached on each side from the pubic arch. The suspensory ligament is divided and the dorsal arteries secured. The cut end of the corpus spongiosum is slit up and stitched to the posterior part of the scrotal incision, and the wound closed. Any enlarged glands should be removed at the same time. Wheelhouse advises castration after amputation of the penis, as the testicles are a source of annoyance. Other Conditions of the Penis Chordee.—This occurs as a complication of urethritis, and consists of painful erections at night. The penis is twisted or bent downwards. This is due to effusion of inflammatory products into the corpus spongiosum, causing unequal distension of the penis during erection. The best treatment is a camphor pill at bed-time, or one containing opium, camphor, and belladonna. A morphia or cocaine suppository may also be given. Preputial Calculi.—These may originate in the bladder or in situ. In the latter case they are due to smegma impregnated with lime salts or to stagnated urine in a long prepuce. Vesical calculi may be arrested in a phimosed prepuce. Priapism.—This is a form of continuous erection without sexual desire. It may be complete or incomplete. It is caused by injury during coitus or excessive indulgence, giving rise to extravasation of blood into the cavernous tissue. It may also follow injury to the cervical or upper dorsal cord. In children a temporary priapism is caused by phimosis, vesical calculus, or ascarides. If due to extravasation of blood the condition may last several weeks. Treat- ment is not satisfactory; purgatives, tartar emetic, mercury, and iodides have little effect. Incisions have been tried with success. Pennyroyal, Oil of. See Toxicology (A bortifacients). Pental. —Trimethylethylene (C5H10); it has been used as an anaesthetic, but is inflam- mable and has a penetrating odour. See Anes- thesia {Other Anaesthetics, Pental). Pentane.—A paraffin of the pentacarbon series (C5HJ2) ; one of the hydrocarbons; a quintane. Three pentanes are known, normal pentane, isopentane, and neopentane, all of them colourless, mobile fluids. Pentastomum. See Liver, Liver Parasites {Pentastomum Constrictum); Para- sites {A7-thropods, Pentastomum Denticulaturn). Pentose.—A sugar containing five carbon atoms; arabinose. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars); Pancreas, Physiology OF {Pentose in Ui'ine). Pentosuria. See Diabetes Mellitus {Definition); Glycosuria {Pentosuria); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars). " Pepana."—The name given to tabloids, prepared by Burroughs, Wellcome & Co., con- taining both pepsin and pancreatin, and so con- structed that the former is set free in the stomach and the pancreatin in the intestine. Pepo. See Cucurbits Semina Preparata. Pepper. — Black Pepper is the unripe fruit of Piper nigrum, a vine of the East Indies. It contains an oleo-resin, piperine (an alkaloid), and piperidine (a neutral principle). Its dose is 5-20 grs. Preparation—Confectio Piperis. Dose—60-120 grs. Pepper may be used ex- ternally as a counter-irritant in the same class of cases as mustard, and internally as a gastro- intestinal carminative and stimulant. It is occasionally employed as a gargle in relaxed throat. It has been recommended as a stimu- lant for chronic atonic conditions of the genito- urinary mucous membranes, but must never be administered when any acute inflammatory con- dition, such as gonorrhoea, is present. Peppermint.—Oleum Menthoi Piperitoi is obtained from the leaves and tops of Mentha piperita. It has a characteristic aromatic odour and taste, and from it is obtained menthol or mint camphor. Its action is the same as that of volatile oils generally. Its dose is |-3 m. Preparations—1. Aqua Menthae Piperitae, 1 in 1000. Dose —1-2 3. 2. Spiritus Menthae Piperitae. Dose—5-20 m. Oil of peppermint, on a piece of linen or muslin, has been used as a local anaesthetic in facial neuralgia. It may cause blistering of the skin and severe burning pain. A few drops placed on cotton-wool and inserted into the cavity of a carious tooth may relieve toothache. Internally it acts as a stomachic and carminative, and is therefore employed in cases of flatulence, infantile colic, and to prevent the griping of purgatives. The aqua is largely used as a flavouring agent. Pepsin. See also Digestion and Meta- bolism {Gastric Digestion); Enzymes {Dissolving Albumen); Invalid-Feeding {Peptonised Foods); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Stomach Secretion).—A digestive ferment of the gastricPEPSIN 400 juice, usually obtained from the mucous mem- brane of the pig's stomach. It is a yellowish or white powder, sparingly soluble in water and alcohol. In combination with hydrochloric acid in weak solution it should digest about three thousand times its weight of albumin in the form of freshly coagulated white of egg. Dose —5-10 grs. Preparation—Glycerinum Pepsini, 1 dr. representing 5 grs. of pepsin. Dose— 1-2 3- Pepsin is given immediately after food along with weak hydrochloric acid to aid gastric digestion in various forms of dyspepsia, in old age, during convalescence from acute disease, and in cancer of the stomach. It is a very disappointing remedy, however, and pancreatic solution is usually more reliable and serviceable. It is also used for the predigestion of albumin- ous foods for administration both by the mouth and rectum. There is a danger that its con- tinued use may have harmful results by inter- fering with the normal digestive secretions of the stomach, and careful discrimination is required in selecting cases likely to derive benefit from its administration. It is contained in a large number of proprietary remedies, and in many of the forms in which it is placed on the market it is quite inert. The variety to be employed should be carefully tested before use. Numer- ous peptonised foods of all kinds are now sold, and in some cases many of them are of distinct value. Pepsi nog^en.—The forerunner of pepsin, which during gastric digestion is converted into pepsin. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Secretion). Peptic.—Relating to pepsin or to diges- tion, e.g. the peptic glands of the stomach (which secrete pepsin and hydrochloric acid) or the peptic ulcer (due to erosion of the gastric mucous membrane by the secretion). See In- digestion {Sy7nptoms); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Etiology, Symptomatology, etc.). Peptides.—Bodies containing two, four, or more amino acid molecules, linked to one another in series {Emil Fischer). See Physi- ology, Protoplasm {Synthesis of the Products of Disintegration). PeptOgfeniC. — Producing peptones or pepsin. Pe ptO m a. n ga n. — A proprietary pre- paration said to contain iron, peptone, and manganese. Peptonsemia.—The presence of peptone in the blood. Peptones.—Proteins which have been acted on by ferments (pepsin, trypsin) during digestion, intermediate bodies known as proteoses being formed in the process. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Classification of the Proteins); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Stomach Digestion, Proteolytic Period) ; Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Albumosuria, Peptonuria). Peptonisation. See Digestion and Metabolism {Functions of the Gastric Juice); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Digestion). PeptonisedfFoods. See Infant- Feeding {Milk Preparations, Peptonised Milk); Invalid - Feeding {Peptonised Foods) ; Milk {Dietetic, Peptonised); Pepsin. Peptonuria. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Albumosuria, Peptonuria). PeptotOXine.—A poisonous substance (ptomaine) produced during the putrefaction of peptones and albuminous matters. Per-.—In compound words per- (Lat. per, through or by) means thoroughly or very, e.g. peracute (very severe) and perfervid (very fervid, glowing) ; in chemistry it denotes the maximum of some element in a combination, e.g. peroxide, perchloride, jJersulphide, percarbide. Peracidity.—Excessive acidity, e.g. in indigestion. Percentage Feeding.—The feeding of infants with cow's milk modified according to definite percentages of fats, sugar, and proteids in order to adapt it to the requirements of different ages and of the state of health or dis- ease ; feeding with modified milk. See Infant- Feeding, Milk Laboratories ; etc. Perception. See Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism (Vision, Visual Centre). Percolation.—The straining of a liquid through some porous material. In pharmacy it is used for obtaining the soluble parts of a drug by passing a solvent through it (the percolating fluid being termed the menstruum, and the material after it has been traversed by the fluid being named the marc); the liquid obtained by percolation may be passed through a second portion of the drug, and so on, this portion being called repercolation. In Public Health, percolation beds are those through which sewage is passed in order to purify it. See Sewage and Drainage {Sewage Disposal, Methods). Percussion.—A method of physical examination by which the surface of the body is so struck (with the fingers or a special instrument, plexor or pleximeter) as to produce a sound, the character of which indicates the state of the underlying organs. See Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of {Percussion); Chest, Clinical Investigation of {Lungs, Percussion); Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Physical E.mmina-401 PERCUSSION tion); Nose, Accbssoby Sinuses, Inflammation {Percussion of Antrum); Ovaries, Diseases of {Diagnosis of Ovarian Tu7nour); Pregnancy' {Differential Diagnosis, Spurious Preg7iancy). Perforated Space. — in cerebral topography the name perforated space is given to two areas in the interpeduncular space at the base of the brain through which small vessels pass to the brain ; one of them is called the locus perforatus anticus and the other the locus perforatus p)Osticus. Perforating Artery. — The name given to certain branches of the profunda femoris, of the peroneal artery, and of others which pass from one aspect of the limb to another; ramus perforans. Perforating^ Ulcer. See Diabetes Mellitus {Complications, Skin) ; Tabes DoRSALis {Symptomatology, Perforating Ulcer of the Foot); Ulcers and Ulceration (Ulcers due to Interference ivith Nerve-Supply). Perforation. See Dysentery {Symp- toms, Perforation of Bowel); Ear, Affections OP Tympanic Membrane {Perforation); Ear, Middle Chronic Suppuration {Perforation of Membrane); Labour in Multiple Pregnancy {Interlocked Twins, Perforation); Labour, Pro- longed {Contracted Pelvis, Treatment); Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Toughness of Mem- branes, Treatment); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Rupture of Uterus); Labour, Obstetric Operations {Embryotomy); Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum {Perforations of Septum); Stomach, Surgical {Gastric Ulcer, Complications, Perforation); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelw, Digestive System, Perforation); Uterus, Malig- nant Tumours of {Cancer of Cervix, Perforation into Peritoneal Cavity). Perforator. See Labour, Obstetric Operations {Embryotomy, Instruments, Per- forators). Peri-.—In compound words peri- (Gr. Trept, around or round about) means surrounding, situated near to or around, or exceedingly; e.g. perianal (about the anus), periarticular (around a joint), peribronchitis (inflammation of the con- nective tissue around a bronchus), perinephrium (the connective tissue around the kidney), perialgia (excessive pain), etc. Periarteritis. See Arteries, Diseases OF {Inflammation) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Vascu- lar System, Arteries). Periarthritis. — Inflammation of the tissues round a joint. See Meningitis, Pos- terior Basic {Complications, Periarthritis). PeribiepsiS.—The wild, staring look seen in delirium. vol. vii Pericarditis. eases of. See Pericardium, Dis- Pericardium, Diseases of. Introductory Pericarditis . Etiology . Course of Disease Symptoms Diagnosis Prognosis Treatment Adherent Pericardium Hydropericardium, etc. 401 402 402 403 405 406 406 406 408 410 See also Aspirator, Uses of {Therapeutic Pur- poses) ; Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Pressure on Pericardium); Chest, Injuries of (Wounds of Pericardium) ; Chest-Wall, Affections of {Pain, Pericarditis); Chorea {Complications) ; Cough {Clinical Varieties, Diseases of the Heart); Fluids, Examination of Pathological {Peri- cardial Fluid); Gout {Irregular, Circulatory System, Pericarditis); Heart, Diseases of Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Morbid Anatomy); Heart, Congenital Malformations of {Absence of Pericardium); Heart, Surgery of ; Liver, Diseases of {Hepatic Pseudo-Cirrhosis, Adher- ent Pericardium); Liver, Tropical Abscess of {Prognosis, Rupture into Pericardium); Liver, Hydatids of {Rupture into Pericardium); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Pericarditis); Mediastinum {Tumour, Diagnosis); Nephritis {Clinical Features, Circulatory System); ffiso- phagus {Dilatation, Adhesion to Pericardium); Physiology, Circulation {Heart); Pleura, Diseases of {Pleurisy, Complications); Pneu- monia, Clinical {Complications, Pericarditis); Post-mortem Methods {Thorax, Pericardium); PuERPBRiuM, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Septiccemia); Pulse {Causes of Pulsus Para- doxus) ; Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms and Course, Pericarditis); Rheumatism in Children {Symptoms, Pericarditis); Rheumatism, Rheu- matoid Arthritis {Morbid Anatomy); Tera- tology {Malformations of Thoracic Contents); Tuberculosis {Heart and Pericardium); Vis- ceral Pain {Pericardium). The Pericardium.—The pericardium is a fibro- serous sac which envelops the heart. The fibrous portion is pyramidal in shape, and at its base is firmly attached to the central tendon of the diaphragm and the adjoining muscular substance; above it is continued as a tubular prolongation on to the root of the aorta and pulmonary artery, and is gradually lost in the connective tissue of their external coats. The serous membrane lining the sac, termed the parietal layer of pericardium, passes up to the root of the great vessels, which it envelops in a common sheath for an inch to an inch and a half from their origin, and is thence reflected on to the surface of the heart, which it closely invests, 26DISEASES OF 402 PERICARDIUM, constituting the visceral layer of pericardium. Laterally and anterioi-ly, save for a small tri- angular area in front termed the anterior medi- astinum, the pericardium is in contact with the pleura; posteriorly it is in relation with the oesophagus, aorta, trachea, and the root of the left lung. The phrenic nerves pass down, one on either side of the sac. Diseases op the Pericardium Pericarditis.—Pericarditis, or inflammation of the pericardium, may be sero-fibrinous or suppurative. The former is by far the most common variety, and may be acute or chronic. As a result of the latter, or of relapsing peri- carditis, adhesions may form between the parietal and visceral layers of pericardium, constituting the condition known as " adherent pericardium." Acute Fibrinous or Sero-fibrinous Peri- carditis.—-Etiology.—Rheumatism is by far the most common cause of pericarditis. In child- hood and early adolescence, from the ages of eight to twenty-five, rheumatism is especially liable to attack the heart, setting up pericar- ditis and endocarditis, with myocarditis in vary- ing degree. In later life, while the articular manifestations of rheumatism are usually more severe, the heart is less frequently attacked. Chorea.—Pericarditis occurring in association with chorea may be regarded as of rheumatic origin. The Role played by Micro-Organisms in Peri- carditis.—The belief has long been held that acute rheumatism is a disease of microbic origin, and that pericarditis and endocarditis are local manifestations of the activity of the rheumatic micro - organisms. Of recent years various observers have turned their attention to this question. In 1886 Mantle wrote a paper on the subject. In 1881 Achalme isolated and described a short bacillus which he considered pathogenic of rheumatism, and his views were supported by Thiroloix and Bettencourt. In 1898 Triboulet isolated a diplococcus from the blood of a patient suffering from acute rheuma- tism, and by inoculating it into a rabbit pro- duced endocarditis. In 1899 Wasserman ob- tained from the blood and pericardial fluid of a rheumatic patient pure cultures of a diplococcus which, inoculated into rabbits, gave rise to pyrexia with polyarthritis, but no valvulitis. In 1900 Dr. Paine and Dr. Poynton brought forward important and apparently conclusive evidence that rheumatic fever is due to a minute diplococcus which they consider iden- tical with that described by Wasserman and Triboulet. This organism they have demon- strated in the fluid in the pericardium and in joints, and also in the tissues of patients sufl'er- ing from rheumatic fever. They have also isolated it from the pericardial fluid, and after growing it as a pure culture on suitable media and in pericardial fluid have inoculated it into rabbits, reproducing in them polyarthritis, peri- carditis, endocarditis, myocarditis, and pleurisy. It would appear, therefore, that we are justified in regarding pericarditis as one of the local manifestations of the activity of the rheumatic diplococcus, and must look upon it not as a complication of rheumatism, but as an integral part of the disease. Pleurisy and Pneumonia.—Pericarditis may occur in association with pleurisy and pneu- monia, possibly by direct extension of the in- flammatory process, but more probably through the agency of the specific micro-organisms which were the cause of the primary disease. In view of the recent researches by Dr. Paine and Dr. Poynton mentioned above, it seems probable that in rheumatic subjects, when pleurisy is associated with pericarditis, both may be due to the rheumatic diplococcus. The same may hold good of pneumonia in some cases; but it has been shown that the pneumococcus may set up pericarditis, and when pneumonia is the primary affection the pneumococcus is usually found to be the cause also of the pericarditis if a bacteriological investigation is made. The Acute Specific Diseases. — Acute peri- carditis may occur as a complication of scarlet fever, variola, erysipelas; rarely of measles, typhus, enteric fever, and malaria. Bright's Disease.—Pericarditis is met with as a complication of Bright's disease most com- monly in association with granular kidney or subacute parenchymatous nephritis. Traumatisvi.—Injuries to the pericardium by a fractured rib, or by a foreign body, such as a needle or fish-bone lodged in the oesophagus, or gunshot and punctured wounds, may set up pericarditis. Tuberculosis and Malignant Disease.—Tuber- cular pericarditis is usually secondary to pulmonary tuberculosis, tubercular disease of the mediastinal glands. Malignant disease and new growths may occasionally invade the peri- cardium and set up pericarditis. Suppurative pericarditis will be discussed later. Morbid Anatomy.—In the early stages the pericardium becomes hyper{Emic and congested, and assumes a dull red colour instead of its normal glistening appearance. Exudation of serum and leucocytes takes place from the congested vessels, and soon both visceral and parietal layers of pericardium become coated in patches or throughout their surface with a thick layer of yellow sticky lymph. From the friction together of the two inflamed surfaces the lymph coating them acquires an irregular, ragged, or honeycomb appearance. The in- flammatory lymph on the surface of the peri- cardium may be reabsorbed, but frequently becomes vascularised and organised into fibrous tissue, gluing together the two layers of403 PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF pericardium where they come into contact, and giving rise to partial or universal adhesion between the heart and pericardium. Effusion may take place into the pericardial sac to a varying extent. Usually it is small in amount, but exceptionally it may be very large, as much as two pints having been recorded. In rheumatic cases a large effusion is un- common. As a rule in fatal cases in children there is little excess of fluid found in the peri- cardial sac post-mortem, but the two layers of pericardium are coated with thick yellow lymph. The effusion consists of a yellowish serous fluid in which leucocytes, shreds of fibrin, and endothelial cells are present in varying quantity. The fluid is usually clear, but may be turbid if there is much cellular exudation, and may contain flakes of lymph. Sometimes it is blood- stained, and in scurvy may consist almost entirely of blood. The Myocardial Changes. — These are of importance, as the myocardium seldom escapes damage in cases of pericarditis. They are de- scribed in detail elsewhere {vide " Heart"), but it may be as well to mention here that they consist of degenerative and fatty changes in the muscle fibres with focci of small round-celled infiltration in the interstitial tissue. General Descriptio7i of the Course of the Disease.—The only certain evidence of the onset of pericarditis is a to-and-fro pericardial friction sound heard on auscultation, caused by the rubbing together of the inflamed surfaces of the pericardium at each beat of the heart. Be- fore this becomes manifest certain premonitory symptoms, as a rule, make their appearance. These are : acceleration of the pulse ; excited or tremulous action of the heart; increase in the respiration rate, with dyspnoea; rise of tempera- ture ; and praecordial pain in varying degree. In children restlessness, night terrors, slight delirium on waking, and irregular action of the heart may sometimes be present in addition in acute cases. There is always some dilatation of the heart, sometimes appreciable before the appearance of the friction rub, usually pro- nounced in the later stages in severe cases. The pericardial rub persists for a varying time—from a day or two to a month or more, according to the severity and chronicity of the attack. The disappearance of the rub may indicate: (1) The subsidence of the attack ; (2) effusion into the pericardial sac; (.3) the formation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium. These points are all discussed at length later on. The physical signs and symptoms of pericarditis will now be considered in detail. Physical Signs.—Pericardial Friction Sound. —This, the characteristic sign of pericarditis, is caused by the rubbing together of the two inflamed surfaces of pericardium. It is a soft scratching sound, heard on auscultation, some- what resembling the noise made by scraping a piece of rough paper with the finger-nail. In chronic cases it may to a certain extent lose this soft scratching character and become harsh and rough. It appears to be very superficial, and is modified by pressure with the stethoscope, being rendered harsher and more distinct, or almost extinguished, accoi-ding to the degree of pressure exerted. Sometimes change of position, e.g. from the recumbent to the erect posture, will render the rub more distinct when it is not well heard. Site of the Rub.—The pericardial rub may be heard at any point over the praecordial area. It is localised at the onset, and is usually first heard at the base of the heart or over the lower end of the sternum; but frequently it is first apparent at the apex. It may remain localised to a small area, and then disappear, or may extend so as to be audible over tlae whole of the front of the heart, and when there is much dilatation may be heard for some distance to the right of the sternum. Rhythm of the Rub.—The friction rub is of a to-and-fro character, corresponding more or less to the movements of the heart in systole and diastole. Its rhythm varies somewhat accord- ing to its situation. When heard at the apex of the heart it may be a single systolic scratch synchronous with the apex beat, or a to-and-fro rub. When heard over the lower end of the sternum and between the sternum and apex it has a see-saw rhythm which is not exactly synchronous with the heart sounds, and is readily distinguishable from them. When heard at the base, over the auricles, it has a triple cantering rhythm which is very characteristic. Friction fremitus is best heard by placing the flat of the hand over the praecordial area. It is by no means always present or appreciable, but is usually most distinct where the pericardial rub is loudest and roughest. It is a curious scratching sensation of feeble intensity, and appears to be very superficial; it has not the vibratory character of the thrill associated with an endocardial murmur. The Heart.—The heart frequently appears to be excited out of all proportion to the severity of the attack, and the pulse is almost invariably accelerated. There may be a tumultuous heav- ing, wavy impulse over the whole precordial area, and auricular pulsation is sometimes seen in the second and third intercostal spaces in children, while epigastric pulsation may be present as well. These phenomena are usually most marked in prolonged or recurrent attacks, when the cardiac dilatation is pronounced. The Pidse.—The most constant and character- istic change in the pulse is acceleration of the rhythm, which is often pronounced before the friction rub is audible. Sometimes in children404 PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF it is irregular, or intermits a beat at irregular intervals, but this is very rare in adults in the earlier stages. The pulse wave is not at first noticeably affected, but in severe and prolonged attacks it becomes sudden, short, and ill-sus- tained. The pulse is then one of low tension, and dicrotism is well marked. Increase in the Area of Cardiac Dulness.— One of the earliest and most characteristic physical signs in acute pericarditis is the in- crease in the area of cardiac dulness, which can be readily made out on percussion. It is more rapid and extensive in proportion to the severity and acuteness of the attack, and is also very pronounced in the later stages of subacute or relapsing pericarditis. It is most marked in children, in whom also it can more easily be mapped out than in adults, as the chest-wall is thin, and there are no emphysematous changes in the lungs. The greatest increase is usually to the right, and the dulness may extend to an inch or more beyond the right margin of the sternum, and upwards as far as the second rib. Sibson apparently took it for granted that increase in the area of cardiac dulness indicated pericardial effusion, and this view has been main- tained by many authors since. In a certain small proportion of cases this undoubtedly holds good ; but there is much evidence to show that in by far the greater number of cases of rheu- matic pericarditis this increase in dulness indi- cates not effusion, but dilatation of the heart, more especially of the right auricle and ventricle. In 1895, in a monograph on Adherent Peri- cai'dium, I described a series of cases tending to prove this ; in two of these paracentesis peri- cardii was performed in the belief that the rapid and extensive increase in the cardiac dulness indicated effusion. In neither instance was fluid found; but the needle punctured the dilated right ventricle, fortunately without ill results. In 1898 Dr. Lees and Dr. Poynton, in a paper, read before the Medico-Chirurgical Society, on " Acute Dilatation of the Heart in Rheumatism and Chorea," also drew attention to this point. From an analysis of 150 cases of fatal rheumatic heart disease in children they found that in only 12 was there marked excess of fluid in the peri- cardium, but that cardiac dilatation was the rule. Clinically it is a common experience in sub- acute cases, when the area of cardiac dulness is very much enlarged, extending for an inch or more to the right of the sternum, to hear a pericardial rub at one or more points over the dull area. This seems incompatible with the presence of fluid; and in these cases, at the post-mortem, no fluid is found, but a dilated heart, sometimes with the pericardium partially adherent. Siipis of Effusion. — Disappearance of the friction rub with progressive and extensive in- crease in the area of cardiac didness are usually regarded as indicative of effusion into the peri- cardial sac; but, as has been stated above, increase in the area of cardiac dulness in a large proportion of cases indicates, not effusion, but dilatation of the heart, and the disappearance of the friction rub may be due, not to fluid, but to the formation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium. It is by no means an easy matter to determine, by percussion alone, when effusion takes place. The outline of the cardiac dulness in effusion is described as being pyramidal or pyriform in shape, with the base or widest part below. Sibson in his treatise on Pericarditis gave a series of diagrams based on percussion, illustrating the shape assumed by the pericardial sac in the various stages of effusion ; but it is doubtful how far these are of practical value for differential diagnosis, as they are not confirmed by post-mortem examination, and it is possible that cardiac dilatation may have been mistaken for effusion in many instances. It is not safe, therefore, to dogmatise as to the exact shape and extent of the area of cardiac dulness in the earlier stages of effusion, but it is generally admitted that it increases in all dimensions and tends eventually to assume a pyriform outline. Dr. F. Roberts also points out that in extensive effusion dulness can be made out to the left considerably beyond the apex beat. The transition from the dull area to the resonant lung is sudden and well marked, and the extent and shape of the cardiac dulness will vary somewhat with change of position of the patient, being increased in its upper part when the patient sits up and leans forward. This, however, is not a safe test, as it may produce fatal syncope. Rotch and Ewart state that in effusion there is dulness in the fifth right intercostal space, due to accumulation of fluid in a pouch in the right corner of the pericardial sac, and that this dul- ness is not present in simple dilatation. I have, however, in several instances found dulness in this position in cases in which post-mortem no fluid was found, but a dilated heart with the pericardium adherent. Change in the Position of the Apex Beat.— Sibson and other observers have stated that effusion causes displacement of the apex beat upwards and outwards; but there is much diversity of opinion on this point, and, more- over, in extensive effusion the apex beat is usually imperceptible. Progressive enfeeblenient of the apex beat from day to day, and its eventual disappearance, together with increasing weakness and distance of the heart sounds as heard at the apex, in association with progressive and rapid increase of the area of cardiac dulness, are strongly suggestive of pericardial effusion. Confirmatory evidence will be afforded if at the same time there is marked exacerbation of the symptoms, such as pra3cordial oppression; cyanosis; fulnessPERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 405 of the veins of the neck; a small, feeble, and irregular pulse; urgent dyspnoea, so that the patient cannot lie down, but finds most relief in sitting up and leaning forwards over a bed-table. Symptoms.—The symptoms are partly local, due to the inflammation of the pericardium, and partly constitutional, due to a general toxsemia from the poisons evolved by the rheu- matic micro-organisms. Pain in the prtecordial region, increase in the pulse and respiration rate, dyspnoea, and rise of temperature, are symptoms well marked at the onset of acute pericarditis, and usually precede the appearance of the pericardial friction rub. In children nervous symptoms may be present in addition, such as crying out and starting in sleep, restlessness, and slight delirium on waking. In the subacute and relapsing type common in children there may be little or no pain, and very slight pyrexia and dyspnoea on exertion only; in short, the symptoms may be so slight, that the child is able to go about during the early days of an attack, or even for the greater part of its course, with disastrous ulterior results. Pronounced anaemia, the presence of rheumatic nodules, and the history of previous attacks of rheumatism, are usually distinguishing features of this class of cases. The face is usually pale, but may be flushed; the expression is anxious and distressed, and respiration is hurried. The temperature ranges between 100° and 103°, and is usually irregular ; in the insidious and subacute attacks in chil- dren it is often very little above normal, but is always somewhat irregular. There may occa- sionally be some pain or difficulty in swallowing from the proximity of the pericardium to the oesophagus, if the posterior aspect is inflamed or if there is much effusion. Dyspnoea is usually a prominent feature, and may become very severe, not only in cases of effusion, but when there is great cardiac dilatation and the pericardium is partially or wholly adherent to the heart. The patient may have to be propped up in a sitting posture, and find most comfort in leaning forward over a bed-board. Vomiting is sometimes present and is always a serious symptom ; not infrequently it ushers in the closing scene. Nervous symptoms may predominate in children, and, as pointed out by Sturges, there may be great restlessness, with delirium and sleeplessness. In exceptional cases there may be pronounced mental change, a condition of maniacal excitement or of melancholia, some- times with hallucinations. The former I have seen twice in a case of pericarditis complicated by severe chorea, the latter once in a case of relapsing pericarditis. Both were in children, and both proved fatal. In the later stages the patient may some- times lapse into a semicomatose state, passing- motions and urine into the bed. Course of the Disease and Terminations.—The disease, as a rule, runs a somewhat different course in adults and in children. In the former it is usually acute and is ushered in by severe symptoms. In the latter it is frequently sub- acute and insidious in its onset, and results very frequently, after a protracted course, in the formation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium. In a favourable case, though the early symp- toms may be severe, the friction rub persists for a few days only; the area of cardiac dulness does not become very greatly enlarged, rapidly decreases to normal again when the friction rub has disappeared, and convalescence is soon established. Very severe attacks may prove fatal within a few days after the pericardial rub is first heard, but this is unusual unless there is some ad- ditional complication such as chorea or pneu- monia. In such cases there is usually rapid and extreme enlargement of the area of cardiac dulness, severe dyspnoea, high temperature, rapid pulse, and sometimes vomiting. In two such cases of which I have seen the post-mortem examination there was very little excess of peri- cardial fluid, only a little lymph on the surface of the pericardium (which was intensely con- gested), but the dilatation of the heart was ex- treme. Possibly in such cases the severity of the inflammation may cause paresis of the cardiac muscle analogous to that which occurs in the muscular coats of the intestine in peritonitis. In the subacute type of pericarditis common in rheumatic children, as first pointed out by Cheadle, the onset is usually insidious and the symptoms are ill marked, and when the child is first brought to a hospital by its parents a peri- cardial rub and mitral systolic murmur may already be present. The friction rub persists on and ofi^ for some days or weeks, the area of cardiac dulness becomes greatly enlarged, and never regains its normal limits, and eventually, when the pericardial rub disappears, the peri- cardium is left partially or universally adherent to the heart. After convalescence is established the child frequently remains pale, anaemic, thin, and short of breath, and the heart hampered by adhesions, and with its muscle damaged by inflammation, remains permanently crippled. If the inflammation is very protracted, or repeated attacks come in close succession, the cardiac dilatation may become extreme, the liver enlarged, and dropsy supervene, the patient eventually dying with all the symptoms of right ventricle failure. It must be borne in mind that the myocardium is almost invariably, and the valves are frequently, attacked by the inflammatory process of which pericarditis is a part, and that the viltimate issue of the illness and prognosis for the future largely depends on the degree in which the cardiac muscle is damaged. For, not only does the dilatation of406 PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF the heart due to myocarditis favour the for- mation of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium during convalescence, but the eventual replacement of damaged muscle fibres by cicatricial fibrous tissue leaves the heart permanently weaker. Diagnosis. — Till the characteristic friction rub is heard, a diagnosis of pericarditis cannot be made with any degree of certainty. There are, however, as a rule, in acute cases premoni- tory symptoms, such as acceleration of pulse, excited action of the heart, rise of temperature, dyspnoea, and perhaps prtecordial pain or oppres- sion, which enable us to anticipate the appear- ance of the pericardial friction rub. These symptoms may, at first sight, seem to be merely exacerbations of those already present from rheumatism, scarlet fever, or pneumonia, with which pericarditis may be associated ; but if we bear in mind the possibility of cardiac complica- tions and examine the heart daily, we are not likely to mistake their significance or to miss the first definite signs of pericarditis. It is otherwise with the subacute attacks of pericarditis common in children, which are often so insidious in their onset that not only may there be no premonitory symptoms, but the pericardial rub may have been present some days, and much damage to the heart have resulted before the child is seen to be ill and medical advice sought. In Bright's disease and tuberculosis also, the onset of pericarditis may be very insidious. Attention is drawn to this later on where the subject is more fully discussed. Differential Diagnosis.—The pericardial fric- tion rub is so characteristic that it is seldom likely to be mistaken for other sounds. Diffi- culty may, however, arise, when from friction between the parietal layer of pericardium and the adjoining pleura in a case of pleurisy, the rhythm is of a to-and-fro character corresponding to the beats of the heart. A pleuro-pericardial rub arising from this cause is usually intensified in deep expiration, and rendered less distinct in deep inspiration, and is modified by the respira- tory movements. It is, as a rule, only heard at the left border of the heart, and not over the sternum or to the right of it. Moreover, as the pleurisy will seldom be confined to the neigh- bourhood of the heart, a respiratory friction rub will he heard in the adjoining area in the axilla. In obscure cases it will be necessary to bear in mind the possibility of the somewhat rare affection, acute mediastinitis, of which an account is given, vol. vi. p. 231. Endocardial murmurs differ so completely in their character from pericardial friction sounds that confusion will seldom arise. They have, as a rule, a focus of intensity, are conducted in certain directions, and have a definite relation to the first or second sounds of the heart, which they may partially or entirely replace. They are not appreciably modified by pressure with the stethoscope, and though they may some- times be accompanied by a thrill, and be rough and vibratory, they never assume the superficial scratching character of the pericardial friction rub. Effusion.—The differential diagnosis between eff"usion and cardiac dilatation has already been discussed. Difficulty in diagnosis between effu- sion and aneurysm or mediastinal growth is scarcely likely to arise if the history of the case is known. Prognosis.—Pericarditis is always a disease of considerable gravity. In acute attacks associ- ated with rheumatism or pneumonia death may take place within a few days, but this is not of common occurrence. In the majority of cases the immediate prognosis, so far as life is con- cerned, is favourable, but the liability to re- peated attacks, the damage done to the heart by myocarditis, and the formation of adhesions between the heart and pericardium, render the ultimate chances of long life unfavourable in a large proportion of rheumatic cases. The prog- nosis will to a great extent depend on the degree in which the myocardium is affected by the inflammatory process. If the attack of pericarditis be short, though severe, and the heart does not become greatly dilated, the changes in the muscle will probably be slight, and the heart may rapidly recover afterwards. If the inflammation is protracted, or repeated attacks occur in close succession, the myocardium will seldom escape serious damage; there will be great dilatation of the heart, from which it is unable to recover for some considerable time, and the pericardium not infrequently becomes adherent to the dilated heart, rendering its complete recovery impossible. Moreover, as in the process of repair, fibrous tissue takes the place of the damaged muscle, the contractile power of the heart is permanently weakened. Children and young adults on whom rheu- matism has set its mark in the shape of the characteristic " nodules" are especially liable to repeated and prolonged attacks of carditis or inflammation of pericardium, myocardium, and endocardium. They seldom grow up to maturity, or if they do, it is with hearts so crippled that long life is scarcely possible. Treatment.—Treatment should be both local and constitutional. Of local applications the ice-bags applied over the pericardial area are the most useful, as they relieve pain and seem to have a steadying effect on an excited heart; they are usually well borne and liked by the patient. Leeches are advocated by some at the onset of an acute attack, but it is doubtful if they are of any real service, and they may upset the patient, and thereby do more harm than good. Blisters are useful in the later stages of a prolonged attack or in chronic pericarditis.PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 407 The administration of salicylates, which in the acute articular rheumatism of adults are given with such marked beneficial results, seem to have no effect in arresting the inflammation, and may do harm if pushed. If the pain is severe and there is great restlessness and dyspnoea, opium or morphia may be employed with marked benefit. Digitalis and cardiac tonics of the same character should not be given during the acvite stage of pericarditis, but if stimulants are required, brandy, ammonia, ether, and strychnine or nux vomica may be given. Quinine given in an effervescing mixture with bicarbonate of soda or potash is the most generally satisfactory and useful medicine. The administration of iodide of potassium is ad- vocated, but is of doubtful service. Nothing in severe cases seems to arrest or exert any controlling influence in the course of cardiac inflammation in children on whom rheumatism has got a firm hold. It is, therefore, of importance that any indications of danger threatening the heart should be recognised as early as possible, and due precautions taken. If a suspicion of rheumatism is aroused by pains in the limbs or joints in a child who comes of a rheumatic stock, or who has previously suffered from rheumatism, the patient should be kept under observation and the heart examined from day to day. If rheumatic nodules are present danger to the heart is imminent, and the child should be carefully looked after and guarded from exposure to cold and exertion of any kind, while the heart should be examined, and the moi'ning and evening temperature and pulse- rate should be noted daily. Effusion. — If extensive eftusion into the pericardial sac takes place, its removal by paracentesis may become necessary, and if the symptoms are severe it should not be long delayed, as death from syncope is liable to occur. It is, however, frequently a very difficult matter to determine whether the increase of cardiac dulness and the symptoms of cardiac embarrassment are due to ett'usion or to cardiac dilatation, and not infrequently the dilated right ventricle has been punctured by accident in the absence of supposed eff"usion. The best site for paracentesis is in the fifth left intercostal space, about 1 inch or 1^ inches from the sternal margin. Some advocate that it should be made in the fifth right space or in the angle between the xiphoid cartilage and costal margins. A small aspirating needle should be used, and previous to its insertion an incision should be made through the skin down to the intercostal muscle, so that any bulging of the space can be noted and the needle introduced without force and in any direction required. The above description applies to the type of pericarditis which is met with in association with rheumatism, and it will be necessary here to briefly allude to the form it may assume in Bright's disease and tuberculosis. In Bright's disease pericarditis occurs most commonly as a complication of subacute parenchymatous nephritis or of the chronic interstitial variety. Statistics vary as to its frequency, from 14 to 3 per cent according to different authors. It is possible that this discrepancy may have arisen from classifying cases of hydropericardium and pericarditis due to intercurrent diseases, such as pneumonia and rheumatism, with those due to toxic in- fluences the direct result of Bright's disease. The onset of pericarditis in Bright's disease occurring, as it usually does, in debilitated subjects, may be very insidious and unattended by any marked symptoms of local reaction. There may be little or no rise of temperature, no prsecordial pain, and little beyond increase in the pulse-rate and slight exacerbation of pre-existing symptoms, such as dyspnoea and restlessness due to ureemia, to call attention to its presence. It may be accompanied by pleurisy, and it is often very difficult to dis- tinguish between a pleuro-pericardial rub and a true pericardial friction sound. It is important, therefore, that the heart should be examined as a matter of routine, or the onset of pericarditis may easily escape notice. The prognosis is always very grave, and the treatment must be directed to the primary disease. Tube7-cular pericarditis usually occurs as a secondary infection, in association with tubercu- losis of the lungs or of the bronchial or mediastinal glands. It may, however, be a primary aff'ection, and the only tubercular lesion, according to Virchow, Joffroy, Cornil, and others; but this is very rare. Tubercles on the pericardium are also present sometimes in acute miliary tuberculosis. Tubercular pericarditis may be acute or chronic. The former is most commonly due to direct invasion by an adjacent tubercular gland, and is usually attended by effusion. The pericardium may become thickened, or the effusion become purulent from infection by a caseating gland, so that the tubercular origin of the disease may escape notice without careful histological investigation. In the chronic variety the onset is insidious, and there is usually little or no effusion. The two layers of pericardium become thickened and adherent, and may contain caseous masses of recent tubercles. The history of the case and the physical signs will be those of chronic mediastinitis or adherent pericardium. Osier points out that tubercular pericarditis often escapes notice during life owing to its insidious nature, and is frequently not detected post-mortem, as the thickened and adherentPERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 408 pericardium is attributed to other causes. He recognises four groups of tubercular peri- carditis :— 1. When the condition is latent, and the dis- ease is only discovered post-mortem in persons who have died from pulmonary tuberculosis or other causes. 2. Cases in which the symptoms are those of cardiac embarrassment due to adherent peri- cardium from chronic tubercular pericarditis. 3. Cases of acute pericarditis attended by effusion, serous, hsemorrhagic, or purulent in character, in which there may be no suspicion of the tubercular origin of the trouble. 4. A group where the clinical picture is that of acute general tuberculosis. (See American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January 1893.) Adherent Pericardium By the term " adherent pericardium " is im- plied the presence of adhesions between the two layers of pericardium as a result of antecedent pericarditis. Morbid Anatomy. — The adhesions may be limited to fibrous bands stretching across the pericardial sac at one or more points, or they may be universal, so that the pericardial cavity is entirely obliterated. In the case of recent adhesions, or of lymph undergoing or- ganisation into fibrous tissue, the two layers of pericardium can be separated, and their surface will present a rough honeycomb appearance; but if the adhesions are of old standing they are tough and fibrous, and the pericardium cannot be stripped from the heart without tear- ing its muscular substance. Adhesions may also exist between the pericardium and chest- wall, or adjoining pleura and lung, as a result of so-called mediastino-pericarditis. {See article on " Mediastinum," vol. vi. p. 231.) In association with adherent pericardium there is commonly some fibrous change in the heart-walls due to replacement of fibrovis tissue of muscle fibres destroyed by previous inflammation. Physical Signs.—The physical signs differ according as the adhesions exist only between the two layers of pericardium, or between this and the chest-wall or adjoining pleura as well. In the latter case they are more numerous and distinctive, and those that may be present are the following :—■ Systolic depression of one or more intercostal spaces to the left of the sternum, or of the lower end of the sternum itself and the adjoin- ing costal cartilages, which may be caused by the heart dragging on them at each systole through the pericardial adhesions. Systolic re- cession of spaces alone is, however, not a trust- worthy indication, as it may be due to atmo- spheric pressure when the heart is hypertrophied and the patient is a child with yielding chest- walls. Care should be taken not to mistake auricular pulsation, sometimes seen in the left intercostal spaces, for systolic retraction. Systolic retraction of the lower portions of the posterior or lateral walls of the thorax may indicate the existence of an adherent peri- cardium when the heart is enlarged, and the pericardium is adherent to the chest-wall as well as to the heart. The explanation of such retraction seems to be that the portion of the diaphragm to which the pericardium is adherent is dragged upwards at each systole of the heart, so that the points of attachment of the digita- tions of the diaphragm to the lower ribs and costal cartilages are dragged inwards and retracted. Fixation of the apex beat, so that it does not alter its position in respiration or in change of posture, is an inportant sign when present. Systolic recession over the site of the apex beat, or a diastolic shock on palpation over this area, points to the presence of pericardial ad- hesions between the apex of the heart and the chest-wall. Impeded descent of the diaphragm in inspira- tion, as shown by deficient movement of the epigastric region, may indicate the presence of abnormal adhesions between the heart and diaphragm, and is more marked if there are adhesions between the chest-wall and diaphragm in addition. The area of cardiac dnlness will be abnormally large and will remain unchanged in respiration when there are extensive adhesions between the pericardium and the chest-wall, as the thin layer of lung tissue normally overlapping the base of the heart will be pushed aside, or more probably be involved in the adhesions and collapse. Enlargement of the Heart.—It is common, but by no means constant, to find the heart considerably enlarged when the pericardium is considerably adherent, even in the absence of valvular lesion or other obvious cause to account for it. It seems probable that such enlargement may be due in some measure to pericardial adhesions, as follows:— The heart becomes dilated during an attack of pericarditis, and the muscular fibres are also weakened by inflamma- tion. Before these recover and the heart con- tracts again to its normal size, the pericardium becomes adherent and fixes it in a condition of dilatation. Subsequently the heart undergoes some hypertrophy. Diastolic collapse of cervical veins, held by Friedreich to be of diagnostic value when ac- companied by systolic retraction of spaces, is seldom seen. Symptoms.—These are not in themselves characteristic, but are such as may arise from embarrassment of the heart, especially of the right ventricle, shortness of breath, palpitation, prfECordial oppression, ascites, and dropsy. Diagnosis.—The physical signs and symptoms,PERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 409 few of which may be present, are often of them- selves insufficient to allow of a diagnosis being- made, or of the condition being suspected in the absence of a history of pericarditis; but valu- able help may be derived by careful considera- tion of the question, " Are the symptoms such as the physical signs would lead one to expect, or are they severe out of all proportion ? " If the latter, adherent pericardium must be thought of as a possible cause of the unexpected break- down of the right ventricle when there is no exciting cause, such as undue strain or exertion, or kidney disease, or lung trouble to account for it. For the right ventricle, with its thinner walls, is most seriously hampered by pericardial adhesions, and in association with these there is frequently some substitution of fibrous tissue for muscle damaged by previous inflammation, so that an unexpected breakdown may readily occur. When a suspicion of adherent pericar- dium is thus aroused confirmatory evidence in the form of physical signs of this condition must be carefully sotxght for. Frequently, however, in spite of all care a certain diagnosis is im- possible. In cases of pericarditis which can be kept under observation for some time after the attack there is less difficulty in detecting the presence of adhesions. The indications which would lead one to suspect that the pericardium was be- coming adherent are:— Prolongation of the attack of pericarditis evidenced by the persistence of a harsh friction rub at various points over the pericardial area for some weeks, together with marked increase in the area of cardiac dulness, which remains permanently after all evidence of pericarditis has disappeared. This will in many instances, bvit not invariably, be due to the pericardium becoming adherent to a dilated heart; and later other physical signs of adherent pericardium may develop. Prognosis.—When the heart remains normal in size after the subsidence of pericarditis, and there are no adhesions between the pericardium and chest-wall, the universal adherence of the pericardium to the heart does not appear to materially shorten life. When the pericardium becomes adherent to a dilated heart and also to the chest-wall the prognosis is more serious. When adherent pericardium is a complication of valvular disease, it is liable to prove fatal at an earlier date by so hampering the right ventricle as to interfere with its recovery when compen- sation breaks down. It must not be forgotten that the degree in which the myocardium has been damaged at the time of the attack of pericarditis is an important factor in prognosis. Treatment.—The discovery of adherent peri- cardium is important from the point of view of treatment, not because anything can be done to remedy or remove adhesions when found, but because it will be necessary to impose additional restrictions on the patient, so that no undue risks may be run. Suppurative Pericarditis.—Purulent peri- carditis may occur as part of a general pysemic or septicsemic condition, or in association with empysema, abscess of the lung, suppuration of mediastinal or cervical glands, or of other adjacent structures. Sometimes no apparent cause can be found. The inflammatory process is almost invariably septic from the onset, due to the invasion of pyogenic micro-organisms, and is attended by effusion of pus into the pericardium. Seldom does a serous effusion of rheumatic or tubercular origin become purulent. The onset of the disease is, as a rule, insidious, and the discovery of pus in the pericardium is often not made till the post-mortem examination. Physical Signs.—There is seldom any definite friction rub to announce the onset of the attack. The physical signs present will be those of peri- cardial effusion, which have already been dis- cussed. Chief of these is increase in the area of cardiac dulness, and the difficulty in distin- guishing whether this be due to cardiac dilata- tion or effusion will be intensified when no friction rub has been heard to suggest the possibility of effusion. Furthermore, it not infrequently happens that the area of cardiac dulness is encroached upon by, or runs into, a large dull area due to empysema. Feebleness or loss of the apex beat and weak or distant heart-sounds may be noted, but will not be of great value, unless the case has been watched from the outset, so that a standard of com- parison could be formed. Thei'e may, occasion- ally, be oedema over the prgecordial region. Symptoms.—The temperature is usually that characteristic of some septic affection, but may sometimes be little above normal throughout. Rigors seldom occur unless as part of a general septicsemia, except in the somewhat rare event of a serous pericardial effusion becoming puru- lent. Pain is absent as a rule, but there may be a feeling of oppression in the prgecordial region. The pulse-rate and respiration are accelerated, and there is usually dyspnoea, especially on movement. Diagnosis. — The diagnosis presents many difficulties, and is frequently not made during life. In the absence of an antecedent friction rub effusion may not be suspected, and the intermittent pyrexia may be attributed to an empysema, or suppuration elsewhere than in the pericardium. If effusion is suspected an exploring-needle may be employed. The skin should be incised parallel to the ribs, as described under para- centesis pericardii, and the intercostal muscles divided before the needle is inserted into the pericardium, so that any bulging of the space may be noted, and the needle be accurately directed.PEEICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 410 Prognosis. — The prognosis is always very- serious, but there are reasonable grounds for hope in cases where the suppuration is not part of a general septic infection, but is a sequela of an empyaema or other localised abscess. The earlier the diagnosis is made and surgical interference is sought, the better will be the chance of recovery. The percentage of re- coveries is, however, very small. Treatment.—Abscess in the pericardium must be treated like any other abscess. It should be opened and drained under antiseptic pre- cautions as soon as the diagnosis of suppuration is made. Hydropbricardium.—By hydropericardium is meant, effusion of serous fluid into the peri- cardial the result, not of inflammation, but of passive dropsical transudation. A cer- tain amount of clear serous fluid, varying from half an ounce to three ounces, is commonly found in the pericardial sac post-mortem, the effusion probably taking place during the act of dying. During life hydropericardium, or effusion of such degree as to be clinically recognisable, occurs most commonly as part of a general dropsical transudation from whatever cause, and is therefore most frequently associated with Bright's disease or morbus cordis. It is much less common than effusion into other serous cavities, and when present is a late feature in the disease, and is gradual in onset. It is said also to occur as the result of mechanical obstruction, to the return of blood from the pericardial and cardiac veins from some local cause, such as pressure by mediastinal tumoui'S, enlarged glands, or fibrous adhesions, but this must be very exceptional. A more rapid and acute serous eff"usion into the pericardium may sometimes take place in acute nephritis. The fluid consists of serum, and is usually pale yellow in colour and clear, but may be turbid from the presence of desquamated epi- thelium and leucocytes, and is sometimes blood- stained. Symptoms and Physical Signs and Diagnosis. —The symptoms are increasing dyspnoea and prsecordial oppression with enfeeblement of the pulse, but as they will usually be present to a varying degree, as a result of the pre-existing disease with which the condition of hydroperi- cardium is associated, they are not characteristic. The physical signs are those of pericardial effusion, increase of the area of cardiac dulness, with progressive enfeeblement of the apex beat and weakness of the heart-sounds ; but as there is no antecedent friction rub to call attention to the possibility of eff"usion, it may readily escape notice in the earlier stages. The diagnosis cannot be made unless the effusion amounts to several ounces, and when there is eftusion into one or both pleural cavities as well, it is very difficult, and may be impossible. Treatment.—Practically the treatment is that of the original disease to which the general dropsy and hydropericardium are due. Relief may occasionally be afforded by aspiration of the pericardium when the diagnosis of effusion can be made with certainty; but it is rarely employed or called for, as the relief can but be temporary, and does not long delay the fatal result. Pneumopericardium.—The presence of gas in the pericardial sac is rare. It may be due to penetrating wounds of the pericardium by a sharp instrument or a fractured rib, but is more commonly the result of ulceration, by which a communication is established between the pericardial sac and an air-containing cavity. Thus, an old phthisical cavity, an abscess in the lung, a pneumothorax, a subphi'enic abscess that has made its way through the diaphragm, may open into the pericardium, or a communi- cation may be established with the oesophagus by ulceration, giving rise in each instance to pneumopericardium. Pus may find its way into the pericardium, with the air giving rise to pyo-pneumopericardium, or blood in the case of punctured wounds, when the condition is termed hsemo - pneumopericardium. The en- trance of gas into the pericardium is always attended by inflammation, most commonly of a septic character, so that pyo-pneumopericardium is the usual result. The gases most frequently found in addition to air are sulphuretted hydrogen and carbon disulphide, but these are only found as a result of putrefaction. The gas may distend the pericardium, and always rises to the highest part of the cavity with change of posture of the patient. Physical Signs. — Uniform bulging of the prsecordial area may be noted. The apex beat is usually absent or feeble, but can sometimes be felt when the patient bends forwards. On 2Jercussio7i the note varies with change of position, being dull over the fluid- and tym- panitic or high pitched over the air-containing cavity. The relations of the gas and fluid will be remarkably altered by changes of posture, and can be readily made out by percussion. On auscultation the heart-sounds acquire a peculiar metallic character, and are unusually loud and clear, so that they may sometimes be heard at some distance off', and are a source of annoyance to the patient himself. Splashing sounds, and metallic tinkling, and a bell note with coins can usually be heard. Treatment.—As pneumopericardium is usually a complication of some grave disease, treatment must vary accordingly. Aspiration may be required to remove the gas or fluid, or possibly free incision may be necessary to allow of the escape of pus. New Growths of the Pericardium.—PrimaryPERICARDIUM, DISEASES OF 411 cancer of the pericardium is scarcely ever met with, but two cases of carcinoma are recorded by Bernheim and one of sarcoma by Sir Wm. Broadbent. Secondary carcinoma is also very rare, and when found is usually due to direct invasion of the pericardium by a new growth in the mediastinal or bronchial glands, lungs, or ad- jacent structures, very exceptionally to meta- stasis from a distant growth. It is, as a rule, accompanied by pericarditis with effusion usually hsemorrhagic in character. The condition can only be suspected if a pericardial friction rub is heard when carcinoma in the neighbourhood of the pericardium has been diagnosed. It may be impossible to diagnose effusion when it occurs if there is already a large area of dulness due to a new growth in the anterior mediastinum. Hydatid of the Pericardium.—Cases of this affection are on record, but it is so rare that it must be regarded as a pathological curiosity. Pericementitis. — Slow inflammation and necrosis of the dental alveoli: Fauchard's disease. Perichondritis.—Inflammation of the fibrous connective tissue covering cartilage. See Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Laryn- geal Phthisis); Larynx, Affections of the Cartilages {Stenosis, Perichondritis and Treat- ment) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and Seqv^lce, Respiratory System, Laryngeal Com- plications). Peridiondrium. See Physiology, The Tissues {Cartilage). Pericolitis.—Inflammation of the tissues surrounding the colon. Pericolpitis.—Inflammation of the con- nective tissue surrounding the vagina. PeriCOWperitiS.—Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding Cowper's glands. Pericran i U m.—The external periosteum of the cranial bones ; it differs from periosteum elsewhere in having only slight bone-forming powers. Pericystitis. — Inflammation of the covering (peritoneum or connective tissue) of the bladder. Pe ridesmium. — The cellular tissue investing a ligament. PerididymiS. — The tunica alhuginea surrounding the testicle; inflammation of this structure is termed perididymitis. Periencephalitis.—Inflammation of the cerebral membranes, especially of the pia mater. Perienteritis.—Inflammation affecting the subperitoneal connective tissue ai'ound the intestine. Perig'astritis.—Inflammation of the peritoneal investment of the stomach. Perihepatitis. — Inflammation of the peritoneal investment of the liver. See Ascites {Causation); Liver, Perihepatitis. Perilymph. Seel Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear). Perimastitis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the breast. Perimeter.—An instrument for investi- gating the field of vision. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Field of Vision) ; Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism (Vision, Field); Strabismus {Strabometry); Vision, Field of {Perimetry). Perimetritis.— Inflammation of the peritoneal investment of the uterus. See Broad Ligaments {Inflammation, Diagnosis); Fallo- pian Tubes {Inflammation, Diagnosis); Puer- PERiUM, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Peri- met7'itis). Perimyelitis.—Inflammation of the pia mater of the spinal cord ; spinal meningitis. Perimysium.—The connective tissue in- vestigating the primai-y bundles of muscle fibres. Perineal.—Relating to the perineum, e.g. the perineal body, perineal section, and perineal hernia. See Perineum for cross-references. PerineO-. — In compound words perineo- (Lat. perineon, the space between the external generative organs and the anvis; Gr. vepivaiov) means relating or belonging to the perineum; e.g. perineoplasty (reparative surgery of the perineum), perineoto7ny (incision through the perineum), perineovaginal (relating to the peri- neum and the vagina), etc. See Perineum. Perineorrhaphy.—Repair of the peri- neum, e.g. after lacerations received during labour. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Peririeal Tears, Treatment) ; Uterus, Displacements of {Prolapse, Treatment). Perinephritis. — Inflammation of the perinephrinm, the connective and adipose tissues surrounding the kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Perinephritis and Perinephritic Abscess); Spine, Surgical Affections of {S2nnal Caries, Diagnosis). Perineum. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor. See also Generation, Female Organs of {Pelvic Floor); Gynecology, Dia- gnosis IN {Inspection of External Genitals); Labour, Stages and Duration {Second Stage,412 PERINEUM Dilatation of Perineum); Labour, Management OF {Second Stage, Preservation of the Perineum); Labour, Precipitate {Rupture of Perineum); Labour, Post-partum Hemorrhage {Primary, Traumxitic Haemorrhage) ; Labour, Injuries to THE Generative Organs {Pelvic Floor Lacera- tions) ; Labour, Obstetric Operations {Forceps, Indications); Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Symptoms, Pain in Perineum); Rectum, Diseases op the {Stricture, Symptoms); Uterus, Dis- placements OP THE {Prolapse, Causes, Operative Treatment) ; Vulva, Diseases of the {Injuries, Inflammation, etc.). Perineurium.—The connective tissue sheath of a primary bundle of nerve fibres; inflammation of this structure is termed peri- neuritis. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, Structure). Perl n UCiea.r.—Surrounding the nucleus, e.g. the artificially produced perinuclear baso- philic granules of leucocytes erroneously re- garded by Neusser as pathognomonic of gout. Periocular.—Surrounding the eyeball, e.g. the space in the orbit between the eyeball and the osseous walls. Period.—The space of time during which a disease runs its course or passes through an active phase {e.g. intermittent fever), or the time occupied by the performance of a func- tion {e.g. the monthly periods or menstruation). See Menstruation and its Disorders {Ter- minology). Periodicity. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Periodic Mania). Periodontitis. See Teeth {Diseases of Peridental Membrane). PeriodOSCOpe. — A calendar for de- termining the probable date of the onset of labour ; an obstetric clock. Perionycllia..—Inflammation round the nails. See Impetigo (Varieties, Impetigo Con- tagiosa) ; Nails, Affections of {Syphilis). Perioophoritis.—Inflammation of the peritoneum in the neighbourhood of the ovary. Periosteal. See Periosteum.—In com- pound words periosteo- signifies relating to the periosteum, or periosteal. Periosteum. — The fibrous, vascular membrane which covers the bones (except in their cartilaginous part). See Bone, Diseases 0¥ {Periostitis, Pyogenic, Tuberculous,Syphilitic); Orbit, Diseases of {Inflammation of the Peri- osteum) ; Physiology, Tissues {Bone, Develop- ment and Structure); Scurvy, Infantile {Morbid Anatomy); Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones, Peri- ostitis) ; Teeth {Oral Sepsis, Results); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce). Periostitis.—Inflammation of the peri- osteum. See Periosteum. Peripheral.—Pertaining to, situated in, or characteristic of the periphery or circum- ference or exterior ; e.g. peripheral neuritis {q.v.), 23eripheral end-organs, etc. See Convulsions, Infantile (Causes, Peripheral, Nerve Irritation^; Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms, Nervous System, Peripheral Neuritis) : Lung, Tuberculosis op {Complications, Nervous); Nerves, Peripheral ; Osteo-Arthropathies {Changes in Peripheral Neuritis); Typhoid Fever {Complications, Ne7-vous System); Ulcers and Ulceration (Ulcers due to Interference with Nerve-Supply); Urination, Disorders of {Enuresis, Causes). Periphlebitis. — Inflammation of the tissues surrounding a vein. See Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Pycemia); Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis). Periplast.—The body of a cell as dis- tinguished from the nucleus and the cell-wall. Periproctitis. — Inflammation of the cellular tissue surrounding the rectum. Periprostatitis. See Prostate Gland {Inflammation around the Prostate). Perisalping'itiS.—Inflammation of the peritoneal covering of the Fallopian tube. See Fallopian Tubes {Inflammation, Varieties). Peristalsis.—-The vermicular movement of the intestine, of the Fallopian tubes, and of other hollow organs, by which their contents are propelled towards the exit. See Digestion and Metabolism {Intestinal Movements); Physi- ology, Food and Digestion {Movements of the Intestine); Physiology, Excretion {Micturition, Mechanism of); Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases OF {Special Symptomatology of Gastric Neuroses, Reverse Peristalsis). Perisystole.—The short interval in the heart's action between systole and diastole ; it becomes apparent when the heart is failing. Perithecium. — The flask-shaped re- ceptacle for the fructification of some fungi. See Micro-Organisms {Hyphomycetes). Perithelioma.—A tumour originating in the perithelium (layer of cells surrounding- capillaries and small vessels) of a vessel. Peritomy. — Circumcision, e.g. of the cornea. See Sclerotic, Diseases of {Sclerotitis, Treatment). Peritoneal or Peritoneo-. See Peritoneum.413 PERITONEUM Peritoneum. Anatomy Physiology Pathology General . Morbid Anatomy Bacteriology Netv Growths . Tubercle . Malignant Disease 413 415 417 417 417 418 420 420 420 eneral Con- Appendix See also Abdomen, Injuries of (6-' siderations, Tj-aumatic Peritonitis) Vermipormis {Appendicitis, Results) ; Ascites (Causation); Broad Ligament, Diseases of (Inflammation) ; Colic (Diagnosis) ; Ectopic Gestation (Symptoms and Results) ; Fluids, Examination op Pathological (Peritoneal) ; Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts, Diseases op (Gall-Stones, Tumours of Gall-Bladder); Gastro- intestinal Disorders op Infancy (Congenital Dilatation of the Colon, Diagnosis) ; Genera- tion, Female Organs of (Ligaments of the Uterus, etc.); Gonorrheal Infection (Pelvic Peritonitis) ; Hiccough (Etiology) ; Hydatid Disease (Echinococci of Peritoneum) ; Hysteria (Disorders of Digestive Organs, Pseudo-Peri- tonitis) ; Intestines, Diseases op, Medical (Anatomical Considerations); Kidney', Surgical Affections of (Injuries of. Haemorrhage into Peritoneum) ; Lbucocytosis (hi Peritonitis) ; Liver, Diseases of (Perihepatitis) ; Liver, Tropical Abscess of ; Liver, Hydatids of ; Ovaries, Diseases op (Tumours, Ovariotomy); Ovaries, Primary Ovarian Pregnancy (Rup- ture into Peritoneum); Pancreas, Diseases op (Acute Pancreatitis, Diagnosis) ; Pelvis, H^ema- tocele and Hjematoma ; Pneumonia, Bacteri- ology of (Pneumococci in Pei'itoneum) ; Post- mortem Methods (Examination of Abdomen) ; Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Perito- neum) ; Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases op (Foetal Peritonitis); Puerpbrium, Pathology OP (Puerperal Infection, Peritonitis); Rheuma- tism, Acute (Symptoms and Course, Peritonitis); Rheumatism in Children (Symptoms, Perito- nitis) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op (Anatomy); Tetany (Associated with Perito- nitis) ; Tuberculosis (Tuberculous Peritonitis); Typhoid Fever (Complications, Peritonitis) ; Urethra, Diseases of (Gonorrhoea, Complica- tions) ; Uterus, Displacements of (Relations of Peritoneum, etc.); Uterus, Malignant Tumours OF (Extension of Disease) ; Visceral Pain. I. Anatomy The peritoneum is the delicate connective tissue membrane which lines the pelvis and the ab- dominal cavity, and which is reflected from their walls over the viscera which they contain. Originally it was continuous with the pleurae and the pericardium, the whole membrane then forming the lining of the undivided body cavity or coelom. At a later stage the membrane covering the thoracic viscera is separated from the peritoneum and undergoes further specialisa- tion. It must, however, be remembered that the connection between the peritoneum and the serous sacs in the thorax remains exceedingly close throughout life. By means of their lym- phatics they are probably in direct connection with one another. Their structure is the same, the pathological changes which they undergo are allied, and their broad anatomical arrange- ment is identical. Their anatomical similarity might at first sight be overlooked as it is obscured by the complexity of the peritoneum, which depends upon its huge area of surface and the number of organs with which it comes into relation. Not only are the organs very numerous, but in the course of development many of them undergo changes in form and position which materially modify the perito- neum over them. Even with the help afforded by the study of the simpler forms of perito neum found in animals and in the embryo, it is hard to understand the anatomy in the adult, while, without the assistance so obtained, the task might well appear impossible. Like the other serous sacs, the peritoneum is composed of two parts—a parietal lining the walls of the cavity, and a visceral which is reflected over the organs. The two are continuous, and between them a potential space exists, called the peri- toneal cavity. In health there is no actual space, so that the term peritoneal " cavity" applied to the normal condition is misleading. In passing to the viscera folds of membrane are formed. They contain a delicate ground- work of connective tissue, which lies between the layers of serous membrane and affords support to the vessels and nerves which run in them. In the female the peritoneal cavity is not closed, because the Fallopian tubes open directly into it. This curious arrangement distinguishes the peritoneal from all the other serous sacs, and is of clinical and scientific interest. To the physician it explains the liability of women to develop pelvic sepsis, and it provides the histolo- gist with a unique example of the junction of a mucous with a serous membrane. For descrip- tive purposes, however, the peritoneum in the female, as well as in the male, may be con- sidered a closed sac which is tucked around and between the different organs. The primitive peritoneum is nothing more than the differentiated lining of the abdominal cavity. By the forward growth of the gut it is separated into a visceral and parietal portion. The alimentary canal is at first a median structure lying along the vertebral wall of the abdominal cavity. It then greatly increases in length, the ends being fixed so that the length- ened central part falls forward, forming a loop. As the loop pushes its way towards the frontPERITONEUM 414 of the abdominal cavity, it carries a layer of peritoneum before it. This layer is the visceral portion of the membrane, and ultimately forms the mesentery. Differentiation of the peri- toneum naturally occurs pari passu with that of the alimentary canal, so that as stomach, small intestine, and large intestine are formed on the one hand, the mesogaster, mesentery, and mesorectum arise on the other. These special names given to the different parts of the visceral peritoneum increase the difficulty of the subject. In the adult the peritoneal cavity consists of two diverticula, the greater and lesser peritoneal sacs. The greater is the one which is usually spoken of as the peritoneal cavity par excellence, and the one which is opened in operations upon the intestines and the other abdominal viscera. The lesser sac, sometimes called the omental sac, lies behind and below the stomach, and extends downwards into the pocket enclosed by the folds of the great omentum. The two cavities communicate by a narrow opening, the foramen of Winslow, which lies beside the neck of the gall-bladder. It may be demonstrated by turning the stomach and omentum upwards and passing the finger along the neck of the gall-bladder. It is bounded in front by the free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum, behind by the inferior vena cava, above by the liver, and below by the duodenum. In the adult these two peritoneal sacs seem to be almost divided from each other, because the opening between them is so small and so hidden. In reality, however, they are nothing- more than two pouches of one cavity. The smaller peritoneal sac is the upper and right half of the original abdominal cavity, and it only becomes shut off from the rest of the cavity during changes in development. If the changes which take place in the stomach are carefully followed, it will be easy to understand the way in which the lesser peritoneal sac becomes shut off from the greater. Originally, as the upper end of the alimentary canal, the stomach is a median and vertically placed structure, slung between two folds of peritoneum, which pass forwards to the liver and back to the vertebral column. Presently it rotates, turning upon its right side, till in the end it lies at right angles to the long axis of the body, instead of parallel to it, so that what ultimately forms the small curvature is morphologically its anterior border, and the great curvature its posterior border, while the pylorus is the lower end. The two ends of the organ, the pylorus and the cai'dia, retain very much their original relation to one another, as they are comparatively fixed, while there is great growth in the intervening muscular wall. The stomach, therefore, comes to form a pouch. The fold of peritoneum which slings it to the spine (its mesentery or mesogaster) is naturally affected by the changes which it undergoes in shape and position, and instead of passing back to the spine as a straight fold, as it did with the primitive vertical stomach, it forms a pouch with its concavity looking upwards and to the right. The formation of this pouch divides the abdominal cavity into its two diverticula, the upper one being at this stage very small in comparison with the other. It is increased in size by the down-growth of the mesogaster to form the great omentum, and when these changes are effected, it constitutes the lesser peritoneal sac, which is thus seen to be nothing more than the upper and right part of the original peritoneal cavity shut off from the rest of the cavity by the curved mesogaster as it follows the rotating stomach. The free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum does not grow proportionately, and it remains as the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. The peritoneum does not cover all the organs equally. It entirely surrounds parts which, like the coils of small intestine, require free mobility, and it appears to enter into specially intimate relations with organs which possess marked powers of absorption and secretion, like the stomach, the pancreas being a possible exception. The relation of the peritoneum to individual organs is often of surgical importance. In lumbar colotomy the incision is planned to reach the uncovered posterior surface of the descending colon. In impermeable stricture of the urethra, supra-pubic puncture of the bladder may safely be performed directly above the pubes, because in distention of the bladder the reflection of peritoneum is carried 2 to 4 cm. above the symphysis pubis. The long mesentery and the free mobility of the small intestine explain why it occurs in such over- whelming proportion of cases of hernia. Hernia of the large intestine is relatively uncommon, although one variety, hernia of the caecum, has been the subject of much discussion. It was at one time believed that the caecum did not possess a complete peritoneal coat; it was thought that when it took part in a hernia the sac was incomplete. Investigation has, however, shown that as a rule this is not the case, but that in 90 per cent of cases the CcEcum has an entire serous investment and even a mesentery of its own. In a small proportion of cases the posterior surface of the caecum is not covered by peritoneum, and if hernia occurs in these cases, the relation of the gut to the sac may be very puzzling, and may cause mistakes of a serious nature. In some cases of this kind the caecum lies in front of the sac, and lias been mistaken for it and opened in operations for the relief of strangulated hernia. In a patient recently admitted to the Royal Free Hospital the reverse condition existed, the sac in his case lying in front of the caecum. When thePERITONEUM 415 sac was opened it was found to be empty, while the gut lay behind it. The peritoneum over the anterior surface of the caecum formed the posterior wall of the sac. At points of fixation along the alimentary canal peritoneal folds occur, forming fossae. They are found at the ileo-jejunal flexure, about the caecum, where Lockwood and Rolleston describe three, and in the neighbourhood of the sigmoid. Internal hernia may occur in connection with these folds, or with the lesser peritoneal sac. Hernia into the lesser peritoneal sac may occur either through the foramen of VVinslow, or through the central part of the gastro-hepatic omentum, which is weaker than the rest, and is called the pars flaccida. The attachment of the mesentery runs obliquely from above down, and divides the greater peritoneal cavity into lateral compart- ments, while the planes of mesentery running to the various coils of intestine lead to still further subdivision. This helps to prevent the general distribution of fluids in infectious in- vasions ; for example, the ascending mesocolon in suppurative appendicitis often restricts the pus to the iliac fossa until adhesions have formed. The loins form the lowest part of the peri- toneal cavity, and in the recumbent position free fluid collects in them rather than in the pelvis—a point which should be remembered in draining the abdominal cavity. II. Physiology The mechanical function of the peritoneum, as it is sometimes called, is the one which first strikes the observer. For a long time it was regarded as its only fimction. Mechanically, the peritoneum acts like a joint. Free and frictionless movements of the viscera which it covers are the requirements demanded of it, and by its anatomical arrange- ment and by its smooth surface, which allows the viscera to glide freely over one another, they are admirably met. It possesses, however, other functions which are no less important in the economy of the body. To properly appreciate them, it is necessary to study the peritoneum in relation to the rest of the lymphatic system of which it forms a part. It is the largest lymph space in the body, being, according to Wegner, equal in extent to the entire skin. It communicates freely with the neighbouring lymphatics, which can easily be injected from its cavity. There is a constant flow of lymph from the peritoneum through the lymphatic plexus in the diaphragm towards the thoracic duct, and so into the general circulation. The peritoneum possesses almost incredible powers of absorption and secretion. In man they are evidenced in disease; in animals they have been tested experimentally. It is im- possible to exaggerate their physiological import- ance. The fact that the absorptive power of the peritoneum is about ten times greater than that of the synovia of joints in itself, speaks for its power of natural resistance. It has been shown that, in the living animal, water injected into the peritoneal cavity is absorbed at the rate of 10 per cent of the body weight, and in the dead animal at 5 per cent of the body weight, per hour. If, on the other hand, hyper- tonic fluids, such as concentrated sugar solution, be used, its powers of secretion will be demon- strated, for a serous exudation takes place into the peritoneal cavity, amounting to 3'8 per cent of the body weight of the animal in an hour. Probably in health fluid is constantly being exuded into the peritoneal cavity from the vessels which form so close a network over its surface, but as there is exact correspondence between absorption and exudation, no residual fluid collects. The normal peritoneum is wet and glistening. It is like silk which has just been wrung out of water. It is believed that a number of factors contribute in maintaining the balance between the two processes of absoi'ption and exudation. In disease it is disturbed, and the peritoneum either becomes too dry, or fluid accumulates, distending its cavity. The vascular supply of the peritoneum is ex- ceedingly rich, and for this reason clean wounds in the membrane heal remarkably well—better, indeed, than those of any other part of the body. Its nerve supply is also abundant, and the con- nections which are formed between its nerves and important centres, such as the solar plexus, are numerous and interesting. By studying the anatomy of its nervous supply, their connections and their modes of origin, an explanation is obtained of many symptoms and reflex phenomena which are of common occurrence in abdominal disease or injury. The peritoneum is supplied with nerves from both the spinal and sympathetic systems. The connections between its spinal nerves and the solar plexus and the cardiac branches of the vagus explain the shock and cardiac inhibition which follow abdominal in- juries as reflexes, and often form such a fatal group of symptoms. The skin of the antei'ior abdominal wall is supplied with cutaneous branches from the last seven dorsal nerves. These nerves also supply the lower intercostal muscles and the muscles of the anterior abdo- minal parietes, and through the splanchnics they take an important part in the nervous supply of the peritoneum. If the peritoneum is injured, as in peritonitis, rigidity of the muscles forming the front wall of the abdomen and hyperaesthesia of the skin follow naturally as reflexes from the anatomical nervous connections. The board-like rigidity of416 PERITONEUM the muscles, the intense sensibility of the skin, which shrinks from the slightest pressure, and the shallow breathing, due to reflex affection of the intercostals, all serve a useful purpose in helping to keep the inflamed part at rest and free from further injviry. There has been some discussion as to whether the healthy peritoneum is or is not sensitive. Probably it is not. Opening the bowel in the second stage of colotomy is scarcely felt by the patient, and in cases in which opportunity has arisen of handling the peritoneum without an ansesthetic it has not apparently caused pain. A clean cut in it is painless, while the slightest degree of inflammation caiises acute suffering. The outer surface of the peritoneum consists of a network of elastic fibres mingled with lym- phatic and vascular capillaries and nerves. The elastic fibres are important, as they endow it with distensibility, so making it a suitable cover- ing for organs like the stomach and uterus, which vary in size from time to time. Its structure must be studied from fresh preparations treated with a weak solution of silver nitrate. Its inner surface is composed of flat pavement endothelial cells resting upon a basement mem- brane, and broken at intervals by apertures, stomata, and pseudo-stomata. The outlines of the cells show up as dark wavy lines in the silver nitrate specimens. They fit into one another by their sinuous margins. It is thought that the pseudo-stomata are formed by a heap- ing up of the intercellular cement at various points between the cells. They have no known physiological function. In his famous experi- ments upon the absorption of milk from the peritoneal cavity, Recklinghausen first described the stomata as the path through which absorp- tion occurred. He regarded them as organised channels between the peritoneal cavity and the lymphatics. They are openings at the junction of several endothelial cells, and are lined with small cells which differ from the normal cells of the part in being granular and cubical. Solid particles suspended in fluid and injected into the peritoneal cavity rapidly pass into the con- nective-tissue spaces and the lymphatics in the parietes, and until recently the stomata were universally regarded as the channels of exit through which they passed. Lately, however, Recklinghausen's conclusions have been disputed, and the existence of organised channels of com- munication between the peritoneal cavity and the sub-endothelial lymph spaces has been dis- puted. Until the matter is settled, stress must not be laid on stomata in discussing the mechan- ism of peritoneal absorption. The path taken by fluid in its passage from the connective-tissue spaces into the general circulation is also a point over which there has been much difference of opinion. The lym- phatics used to be regarded as the main channel of absorption, aided only to an insignificant extent by the blood capillaries. During the last few years some physiologists have attempted to minimise their importance, and to prove that the capillaries are the main path of absorption. The following points have been brought for- ward in favour of lymphatic absorption :— 1. Anatomically, as the spaces open directly into the lymphatics, the connection between them is closer than that between the spaces and the capillaries. 2. The pressure in the lymphatic system is lower than that in the capillaries, and fluid always tends to flow in the line of diminishing pressure. 3. Ligature of the thoracic duct hinders absorption from the peritoneal cavity. 4. Substances absorbed from the peritoneal cavity are said to appear in the lymph, collected by a cannula in the thoracic duct before they appear in the urine blood. Potassium ferro-cyanide was used in these experiments, and the urine and lymph collected from the bladder and thoracic duct respectively were examined at short intervals for the Prussian blue reaction. Unfortunately, experimenters have not reached the same conclusions. Meltzer always found that the reaction was given by the lymph before the urine, while Starling came to the opposite conclusion. The arguments which have been used to establish the superior importance of the capil- laries resolve themselves to a great extent into a negation of the points enumerated above. It is said that— 1. Stress must not be laid upon the seeming continuity of the lymphatics and the tissue spaces, nor upon supposed conditions of pressure in the lymph and vascular capillaries, because our knowledge is not sufficiently trustworthy. 2. During the rapid absorption of peritoneal effusions the flow of lymph from the thoracic duct is not increased. 3. Under certain circumstances it has been conclusively shown that absorption by the blood-vessels can occur. Defibrinated blood led repeatedly through the blood-vessels of an cedematous amputated limb becomes more watery. In the control experiment, which differed only in the tissues being healthy, the blood became less rather than more watery. The factors which produce absorption have also led to much discussion. It has been said to occur from filtration, in the line of diminish- ing pressure, by osmosis, and by vital cell action. Probably several factors act in combination, especially filtration and osmosis. It is known that absorption of fluids from the peritoneum varies inversely with the osmotic pressure of417 PERITONEUM the fluid. Hypertonic solutions become at least isotonic, generally hypotonic before absorption. Robinson sums up the functions of the peritoneum under the following headings. He says it is of use— I. To prevent friction of moving viscera. II. To anchor and support the viscera in their proper relations to each other. III. To prevent invasion of infectious micro- organisms by throwing out barriers of exudation to protect wounded viscera. IV. To furnish the viscera with an elastic covering. V. To absorb and secrete fluid. III. Pathology General Remarks.—The realm of non-bacterial peritonitis is daily becoming more restricted, and it is now believed that the vast majority of cases of peritonitis, if not all, are due to pathogenic bacteria. Since, however, it is now known that micro-organisms only act by virtue of their chemical products, the distinction between chemical and bacterial infection need not be so sharply defined as was once thought necessary. Cold probably never acts as an actual excitant, but only as a predisposing agent, by lowering the power of resistance of the tissues. The susceptibility of the peritoneum varies in dif- ferent animals within wide limits, and probably it also varies to some extent in man, some people being able to deal successfully with doses of poison to which others would succumb. Certain parts of the membrane are much more sensitive than others. The area of the small intestine is much more vulnerable than that over the colon, while the parietal peri- toneum, compared with the visceral, is remark- ably tolerant. The power of resistance possessed by the outer parietal peritoneum is illustrated by cases of vertebral abscess, in which the pus is in contact with it for long periods of time without inducing peritonitis or leading to toxfemia from absorption. A chronically inflamed peritoneum appears to be somewhat more tolerant of a slight degree of sepsis than a healthy one. It stands opera- tion better. To a certain extent it has become immune. The pelvic peritoneum in women is thicker and more opaque than in men. The mesentery in the adult is less translucent than in the child. The reason is probably the same in both cases. The peritoneum represents a territory in which there is a struggle throughout life between invading micro-organisms and the leucocytes which guard it, and which can be called up at any moment for purposes of defence. The records of past struggles are written in the changes which occur in the membrane as age advances, and in those which are found in parts specially liable to damage, like the pelvic peritoneum in women. VOL. VII The peritoneum itself has considerable power of resistance, depending chiefly upon its absorp- tive apparatus. Experiments show that in health it can deal successfully with fairly large injections of pyogenic organisms, provided that no nutrient material is introduced with them. The bacteria are encapsuled or absorbed. If, however, blood serum or lymph is present as well, the bacteria multiply and septicaemia follows. The practical indication of this observation is the importance of keeping the peritoneal cavity as dry as possible during operations. Hands and instruments, after purification, should be thoroughly dried, and when the operation is finished all moisture and blood-clot should be removed, while in peritonitis, drainage rather than irrigation should be the line of treatment. Peritonitis always begins locally. It is rather more common in women than in men, the " points of attack" varying, however, in the two sexes. In women pelvic troubles and inflammation about the gall-bladder increase the total number of cases, while in men appendicitis and hernia more often occur. In both sexes perforation of the gastro-intestinal track is a comparatively common and very fatal cause. Peritonitis in its essence may be considered a salutary process. If it did not occur, the simplest laparotomy would almost inevitably prove fatal. A single micro-organism intro- duced into the abdominal cavity would find itself in a haven of comfort, in which, undis- turbed, it could multiply and invade the body. As it is, the organisms which reach the peri- toneal membrane are at once surrounded by millions of leucocytes, which pour from its vessels and attempt to engulf them. It is by the reaction of the tissues alone that the patient can be saved. If he dies, his symptoms are those of septicaemia, not of inflammation. He dies of the poisons elaborated by absorbed micro-organisms, not of local inflammation, as the term "death from peritonitis" implies. Death takes place because peritonitis fails to save life. It is always the sepsis which kills, while the inflammation is the attempt, and often a successful attempt, to save life. In the most rapidly fatal cases, where the patient dies with symptoms of profound poisoning, it is visual to find nothing, or next to nothing, visibly wrong with the peritoneum at the post-mortem ex- amination. The leucocytes in these cases have been at once overpowered, and no traces are left after death of their ineffectual struggle. Morbid Anatomy.—Tympanitis occurs early from reflex paralysis of the bowel. It is most marked in the small intestine. The distended coils are hypersemic and patchy, with a dull and lustreless surface. The injection on the walls of the intestine is most visible along lines parallel to the line of attachment of the mesentery. The distended coils of gut lie 27418 PERITONEUM against each other, and the lines of injection represent the angles between adjacent coils, where the pressure is least. They are some- times, for this reason, called suction - lines. Flakes of lymph also collect in this situation. They vary in thickness, and can at first be detached from the membrane lying under them. The microscopic changes are the same as those enumerated by MetschnikofF in his classical description of inflannnation. Dilatation and stasis occiir in the small vessels, and there is an exudation of lymph and migration of leuco- cytes through the vessel walls into the sur- rounding spaces. The exudate consists of a network of fibrin with white blood corpuscles in its meshes. At first it forms milky flakes, which later may become grey or greenish. Membranous adhesions are formed between opposed surfaces, and are gradually drawn out by the movements of the viscera into cords and bands. When the acute stage is over, the inflamma- tory products are either entirely absorbed or become partly " organised" into scar tissue, which contracts in the usual way. It is usual to describe three forms of perito- nitis separately, although in practice they are constantly met in combination, especially in cases of tubercular peritonitis. They are respectively— (1) Dry, adhesive, or fibrinous peritonitis. (2) Serous peritonitis. (3) Suppurative peritonitis. Adhesive Peritonitis.—-The adhesions may be so soft as to be easily broken down by the finger, or tough enough to resist cutting by a knife. They may form the merest tags attached to organs, or they may bind all the abdominal contents into an inextricable mass. In the early stages, by helping localisation they are of infinite service; later, when they contract, they cause all kinds of trouble by the pressure they exert on nerves and other structures, and by interfering with the proper movements of the viscera. Chronic cases, in which the de- formity is extreme, are known as cases of peritonitis deformans. The omentum may be enormously thickened and rolled up, the mesen- tery is shortened, and all the organs firmly bound down, with resulting loss of mobility and pain. Serous Peritonitis. — In the sero - fibrinous variety the quantity of fluid varies greatly in amount; according to Osier, from \ litre to 30 or 40 litres. In simple acute peritonitis the quantity of serous exudation is generally small. In carcinomatous infiltration of the membrane and in tubercular peritonitis it may be considerable. It is clear or cloudy, according to the proportion of contained leucocytes. In some of the acute cases the distended vessels rupture, when a blood-stained exudation results, while occasionally a markedly hsemorrhagic effusion occurs in cancerous and tubercular peritonitis. If there is perforation of the ali- mentary tract, the contents of the stomach or gut are mixed with the fluid and alter its character. Picrulent Peritonitis. — A general purulent peritonitis is rare, although sero-purulent effu- sions, often very copious, may occur in general peritonitis. With intense general sepsis, death takes place very rapidly from absorption, usually before the tissues have had time to react com- pletely with resultant pus formation. This, no doubt, is the reason why general purulent peritonitis is rare. Circumscribed abscesses, however, are very common in the outlying parts of the abdomen in connection with the parietal layer of the peritoneum and the colon ; for example, about the appendix, in the vault of the diaphragm, forming the so-called sub- phrenic abscess, and in the pelvis. Bacteriology.—A large number of organisms are associated with peritonitis, and in the majority of cases the infection must be re- garded as a mixed one. Pyogenic organisms head the list, streptococci being by far the most important, (Tavel and Lanz found them in three-fourths of their cases.) Staphylococci are much less virulent, and rarely occur except in combination with streptococci. Streptococci are the active agents in cases of peritonitis arising from external infection, from perforative wounds of the abdominal wall, from contamination during operations, in puerperal septicaemia, and occasionally also In association with cutaneous erysipelas. The fact, however, that the superficial lymphatics of the abdominal wall do not communicate with the deep system of peritoneal lymphatics prevents this from being a common accident. The cases due to infection from the alimentary tract are of great interest. Peritonitis follows perforation of the alimentary canal, but it also occurs in cases in which, although the gut-wall is injured, no perforation has occurred; for example, in vol- vulus, strangulated hernia, and non-perforative appendicitis. Cultures made in the ordinary way from the inflammatory exudation in these cases almost invariably give pure growths of the bacillus coli communis, or at any rate show growths in which colonies of this bacillus pre- ponderate. The bacillus has been cultivated in this way from the fluid in the sac of a strangu- lated hernia, and from the peritoneal exudation in cases of non-perforative peritonitis. Hawkins prepared stained sections of the appendix wall in cases of non-perforative appen- dicitis, which had nevertheless caused fatal general peritonitis, and which he included under the heading of infective appendicitis. He showed that bacilli were present on the peri- toneal surface of the wall, instead of being restricted to the inner surface of the gut as419 PERITONEUM they normally are. He believed that they were bacilli coli communis. The burning question arises as to the part played by the ordinary intestinal bacteria, especially the bacillus coli communis, which stands as the prototype of the great colon group of bacilli in the causation of peritonitis. This bacillus was discovered in 1885, and at first it was described as a harmless inmate of the intestine, present throughout life, and entirely free from pathogenic properties. Then gradually evidence was amassed against it, in the shape of the facts cited above, and almost all cases of peritonitis arising from injury to the gut, with or without perforation, were laid to its account. It was believed, under certain conditions, to acquire great virulence, with the power of penetrating the wall of the gut, when its inner surface in any way became injured and its vitality lessened. This theory has until lately been universally held. The objection to it is that it is a little fanciful, and that the extreme readiness with which the bacillus coli communis grows may lead to the most deceptive conclusions as to the frequency of its presence and its etiological importance. So much is this the case that recent observers hesitate before they allow it anything like the importance which its constant presence in the ordinary culture tubes, often in pure culture, seems to indicate. The old theory, it must be admitted, is cut somewhat to fit the facts, to act as a cloak for ignorance; and moreover, recent work tends to show that, by special methods adopted to ex- clude air, anaerobic organisms of the pyogenic class can be cultivated, and probably are mainly responsible for many cases of peritonitis which have previously been ascribed to the bacillus coli communis, because by the ordinary methods of cultivation they have been killed off, while the colon bacilli have flourished. Dr. Veillon of Paris has recently made the most important contributions to this subject. His conclusions are principally based upon the results obtained from the study of twenty-two cases of appendicitis. He believes that, in causing gangrenous and foetid inflammations, a group of strictly ana- erobic bacteria play a rdle of prepondering, if not of exclusive importance, but that, as they require special methods of cultivation, they have hitherto escaped observation. Several years ago Veillon observed that in certain cases of suppuration there is a marked difference be- tween the microscopic appearance of freshly- stained specimens of the pus and the results of culture. In other conditions the results of immediate microscopic examination tally with those ob- tained from culture; that is to say, the same cocci are seen in the field of the microscope and in the colonies grown upon the agar-tubes after inoculation with the pus. In osteomyelitis they are found by both methods to be staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. The cases in which the results of culture diff"ered from the appearance of the slides were noticed to be those in which the inflammation was most intense, and the process foetid or gangrenous in nature. In the appendix many of them belonged to Hawkins' class of " infective appendicitis." In some of these cases, while the field in the fresh specimen was seen to be swarming with micro-organisms, hardly any growth occurred in the inoculated tubes; the colonies which developed in them were very few in nvimber, and they only represented a small proportion of the forms seen in the freshly- prepared slides. The staphylococcus or strepto- coccus, with members of the colon group, the bacillus coli communis or the proteus vulgaris, developed in these cases, while other germs which had previously been seen on the slide did not grow upon the tube. Why, in these cases, was it that only a small proportion of the germs could be grown 1 Before Veillon brought forward his hypothesis that the majority of these bacteria failed to grow because they were anaerobes, they were believed to be dead or at least dying before inoculation. This explanation was unsatisfactory, because it was unlikely that specially virulent forms of inflammation should be caused by dead or dying bacteria. Veillon's hypothesis at last aff'orded a rational explanation of facts. He taught that, far from being moribund, the organisms in these cases were intensely active and viru- lent, and that if they were supplied with an environment in which they could live, it was possible to cultivate them, but that they could not grow in the ordinary culture media exposed to the air any more than germs like the bacillus tetani can. Veillon has cultivated, isolated, and described several different classes of these bacteria, which appear from his results to play a most im- portant part in the etiology of appendicitis and of peritonitis. In his monograph upon the sub- ject he speaks of the principal ones, under the names of B. fragilis, B. ramosus, B. fusiformis. In 21 of his 22 cases Veillon demonstrated the presence of anaerobic germs by means of special methods of cultivation. In 2 cases they were the only organisms present, while in 19 cases they were associated with a small number of streptococci and bacillus coli communis. He found it necessary to pay the greatest attention to the details of the technique, in order to provide the organisms with the requisite conditions. The culture medium had to be solid and transparent, and the exclusion of air rigid. The procedure which he followed has been fully described by Dr. Rist (Paris), who has alsoPERITONEUM 420 done much valuable work upon allied subjects, such as the bacteriology of otitic suppurations, where he has arrived at the same conclusions as Veillon as to the importance of anaerobic germs, thereby greatly strengthening the position of Veillon's theory. Glucose agar is the medium employed. Tubes containing it are heated in a bath to 100° C, in order to melt the agar and to drive off the contained air. At 40° C. the agar is still liquid, but the temperature is not so great as to kill the micro-organisms. The tubes are thei'efore inoculated at this temperature in the ordinary way with a sterilised pipette, and immediately afterwards are plunged into cold water, so as to minimise the absorption of air during the process of solidification. In the upper end of the tube there is some admixture with air, and in this layer aerobes grow ; while the rest of the column satisfies the conditions required by strict anaerobes. The colonies of anaerobic organisms, therefore, de- velop in the lower parts of the tube at the end of a variable time amounting sometimes to eight days. They can easily be seen through the transparent medium. When the colonies are fairly developed they can be separately removed for further examination. Veillon sums up his conclusions in the follow- ing way:— "All these microbes are strictly anaerobic, and are constantly met in the pus of ap- pendicitis, in abscesses limited to the caecum, and in peritonitis. Their extreme abundance, shown by examination of stained specimens of the fresh pus and by culture under special con- ditions, their predominance over the bacillus coli communis and the other aerobes found in these cases, with their exclusive appearance in a few cases, their pathological and chemical properties (gas, fcetor), allow us fairly to affirm that they play an important part in the pro- duction of appendicitis and peritonitis. In virtue of their gangrenous properties they are the active agents in producing perforation, and it is to them that the pus owes its fostor. It is their toxines which give rise to the symptoms of intoxication." Karer forms of peritonitis arise from glanders, actinomycosis and anthrax and various other bacilli, such as bacillus pyocyaneus, pyogenes foetidus typhosus, proteus, lanceolatus ; besides, the pneumococcus and the gonococcus have been described in connection with it. Probably, in the production of peritonitis the gonococcus and the pneumococcus only act in combination with the more common pyogenic bacteria. Acute diff'use peritonitis may arise in cases of gonorrhoeal salpingitis. The pathology of rheumatic peritonitis, and of the peritonitis associated with certain forms of renal disease, is obscure, although possibly the two are allied in nature. That rheumatism is a microbic disease is in accordance with the most recent bacteriological work on the subject. The nature of renal disease, and of the peri- tonitis which arises in connection with it, is much more doubtful. Ascites (vide article on " Ascites ").—In this condition the peritoneum is only affected second- arily, and to a slight extent. From venous or lymphatic stasis, fluid exudes into the peri- toneal cavity, and in time, from the increased pressure, the membrane becomes opaque and thickened. Unlike the fluid in serous peritonitis, it shows no power of spontaneous coagulation. New Growths of the Peritoneum Tubercular Perito7iitis.—The peritoneum is always secondarily affected by tubercle, the infection reaching it from the intestine, from the mesenteric glands, or from the generative organs. In acute cases miliary tubercles of typical form are found scattered over the peri- toneum. It is not uncommon also to find a few of them in the peritoneum of patients dying of chronic phthisis. They are studded most thickly over the region of the diaphragmatic peritoneum and the pelvis. In the more chronic cases the secondary in- flammatory changes may be so advanced as to mask the specific changes to a great extent. In these cases the disease shows a striking tendency to simulate tumour. The omentum is rolled up, scarred, and thickened, until it forms a mass which usually lies transversely in the upper part of the abdomen, rather more to the left than the right side. The mesenteries may also be thickened and puckered, causing great deformity. A certain amount of effusion may be present, but it is not usually very great; occasionally it is hsemorrhagic. Adhesions may lead to the formation of pockets which contain fluid and simulate cysts. In children especially it is common to find marked affection of the mesenteric glands, which are enlarged and hard with caseation in the centre. It is curious that the association of tubercular peritonitis with tubercular ulcera- tion of the intestine is not more commonly found. Malignant Disease.—Cancer.—Primary ueo- 2)lasm of the peritoneum is exceedingly rare. Cases of primary epithelioma have, however, been described, although it is probable that they were of the nature of endothelioma i-ather than true epitheliomata. Endotheliomata occur as nodular growths; they are usually multiple and flattened, the various nodules coalescing to a greater or less extent, and they are white in colour. Sometimes they form large isolated tumours, marrow-like in consistence, the peri- toneum round them showing inflammatory thickening. They arise from multiplication ofPERITONEUM 421 the endothelial cells of the surface of the mem- brane and of the lymphatics. Microscopically, endotheliomata are characterised by nests or clusters of endothelial cells arranged in a fibrous matrix following the course of the lymphatics. Secondary malignant peritonitis is compara- tively common, arising both by extension and metastasis. The disease may start from any of the abdominal organs, but it is most common in connection with cancer of the stomach or ovaries. Discrete nodular masses of growth are found scattered over its surface; there is often much induration and rolling of the omentum, which forms a palpable mass in the hypochondrium as in tubercular peritonitis. In both primary and secondary carcinoma there is usually some blood-stained exudation in the peritoneal cavity. Sarcoma. — Retroperitoneal sarcoma cannot clinically be distinguished from malignant dis- ease affecting the peritoneum itself, and as there is structural continuity between the peritoneum and the subjacent tissues, it is well not to draw too fine a line of distinction. Sarcoma may originate in the folds of the mesentery and omentum as well as from the retro-peritoneal tissue. Besides sarcoma, various other mesoblastic tumours originate in the retroperitoneal tissues behind the peritoneum, and involve the peri- toneum secondarily—ex. lipomata, fibromata, angiomata, besides various kinds of cysts, in- cluding hydatids. Cysts in the mesentery may be multiple and of small size, as in a specimen at the Royal Free Hospital Museum, or they may be single and large. Inflammation around the foramen of Winslow may obliterate the opening and lead to cystic distension of the lesser sac. Peritoneum — Acute Perito- nitis, General. Etiology . 421 Symptoms— The Mode of Onset . 422 Shock ..... . 423 Tenderness .... . 423 Vomiting, etc. .... . 424 Meteor ism .... . 424 Temperature .... . 424 Method op Examination . 424 Clinical Varieties— Peritonitis Fulminans . 425 Latent or Masked Peritonitis . 425 Peritonitis of Neiv-born Child . . 425 Peritonitis in Erysipelas . . 425 Peritonitis in Acute Specific Fevers . 425 Peritonitis in Rheumatism . 425 Peritonitis in Bright's Disease . . 425 Idiopathic Peritonitis . 425 Diagnosis ..... . 425 Treatment— Indications for Operation . , . 426 Laparotomy, Flushing, and Drainage 426 Rapid Laparotomy tvith Drainage . 428 Laparotomy with Local Anaesthesia . 428 After-Treatment . . . . .428 The Use op Opium .... 428 Non-operative Treatment . . . 428 Acute Localised Peritonitis . . 429 Diagnosis and Treatment . . .429 Etiology.—This has already been dealt with to a large extent. It is important, however, to mention the actual way in which the bacteria enter the peritoneal cavity. 1. Wounds. (a) Penetrating wounds of the abdominal wall with or without injury to viscera. (b) Injury to the viscera without any wound of the abdominal wall. 2. Perforation by a foreign body. (a) Those formed in the body—such as gall-stones, enteroliths, etc. (b) Those taken in by the mouth. 3. Operations on the abdomen. 4. Internal strangulations, including volvulus, intussusception, and internal herniae. 5. Extension from an inflamed organ, espe- cially intestine or vermiform appendix. 6. Extension from a local abscess, of which the most common forms are suppurative ap- pendicitis and suppurative salpingitis. 7. Perforation of hollow viscera, as in gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer, typhoid ulcer, etc. Of these causes, peritonitis following surgical operations vipon the abdomen is becoming much rarer than formerly owing to improvements in operative technique. By far the most common cause in both sexes is appendicitis. Symptoms. — When we consider the great variety of causes of acute peritonitis it is not surprising that the symptoms vary exceedingly in different cases. Sometimes we are con- fronted with a patient whose appearance suggests typical surgical shock ; in another case the local evidences of peritonitis are at once obvious ; in yet a third the symptoms generally may be so masked that the most experienced clinician may miss the fact that the central feature of the case is peritonitis. There is no definite line of demarcation between those cases which die within twenty-four hours with symptoms of, or resembling, surgical shock, and those in which the peritoneal symptoms form so prominent a feature that attention may be withdrawn from the fact that the patient is also suifering from the effects of general septic poisoning. There is a large number of cases in which the symptoms point to an inflammation of the general peritoneal cavity, but in such, after two or three days, all the general symptoms subside, leaving only the evidence of local mischief, which is usually in the region of the appendix.422 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL I have had three opportunities of thoroughly exploring the peritoneal cavity in such cases, having operated under the mistaken diagnosis of a perforated gastric ulcer in two of them, and in the third no diagnosis could be made. In all three cases the symptoms pointed strongly to general peritonitis, but it was found that the peritoneum showed no sign whatever of in- flammation. All three cases developed appen- dicular abscesses within a week. The explana- tion of this phenomenon will be found later on. Two kinds of cases may be taken as types of a general peritonitis, viz., that following opera- tions upon the abdomen, and that following an appendicitis where the micro-organisms get through the wall of the appendix without necessarily an actual perforation of the wall of the tube taking place—in other words, there may be a bacterial perforation only. At the present day the former cases are happily be- coming more and more uncommon, and there- fore it will be better for us to take for our description a case where the trouble has started in the appendix without a sudden perforation of that organ, a condition which is the most common cause of general peritonitis. There are the very acute cases before referred to, in which the patient appears to be suffering from profound shock and septic poisoning. In a third group of cases the symptoms of peritonitis are slight compared with the mischief that is found at the operation or autopsy; these cases are termed latent or masked peritonitis. In dealing with a typical case of acute peritonitis it will be best to describe fairly briefly the symptoms and course of the disease, and then to consider each important symptom in detail. A Typical Case of Acute Peritonitis.— The patient begins to feel unwell, and within an hour or two he complains of cold, and may even shiver; not uncommonly there may be an actual rigor ushering in the symptoms. In nearly all cases the first definite symptom that makes its appearance is pai7i which, though very constant in its presence, is very variable in its character and in its intensity. When the pain is slight it generally has a curious tendency to disturb and worry the patient out of all proportion to its intensity, and this confers upon the face a somewhat characteristic expression of anxiety. On the other hand, the actual inten- sity of the pain may be so great that it is quite alarming both to the patient and his friends. At first the pain is referred as a rule to the whole of the abdomen, but later on it is generally localised to the region of the um- bilicus. As a rule the abdomen is rigid, and the shin of the whole or of a part of the abdomen is markedly hypercesthetic. In order to diminish the abdominal tension as much as possible the patient lies on his back with the thighs flexed and the shoulders raised. When the costal respiration is nuich hampered the arms are often raised above the head, so as to bring into action the extraordinary muscles of respiration. Owing to this rigidity of the abdominal muscles and to the abdominal dis- tension the respirations become more and more costal in type. The pulse is increased in frequency, is of high tension and small; this high tension is characteristic, and seems to be one of the early effects of the septic poisoning upon the vaso-motor system. This small yet high tension pulse is so characteristic that it has gained for itself the term wiry. This must not be confused with the pulse of a later stage, which is often termed thready, owing to its low tension and small volume. The temperature rises rather rapidly to 103° or 104°, and after this initial rise it generally falls a little, main- taining an average of about 101 "5°. After the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours the hard and somewhat retracted abdomen begins to dis- tend, and the percussion note becomes more and more resonant and finally tympanitic. The dis- tension rapidly increases, so that the abdomen becomes blown out and tense. Vomiting, which usually sets in about the same time as the pain, is a prominent feature of the disease. At first the ordinary stomach contents are brought up, when the vomit is yellow, being distinctly bile- stained, and this is followed by a characteristic green liquid, which is finally succeeded by a brownish-black one having an offensive odour distinctly fsecal in character. At the commence- ment of the inflammation the bowels may be loose, but as soon as the abdomen distends constipation sets in. The act of mictu7-ition is often frequent at first, and later on there is usually retention, especially if the origin of the trouble is in the appendix or in the pelvic organs. The urine is small in quantity and high coloured, usually containing abundance of indican. There is usually free fluid, causing dulness in the flanks, which may shift on rotating the patient. When all the symptoms are fully developed the aspect of the patient becomes very character- istic ; so well was it described by Hippocrates, that is is often termed the " facies hippocratica," viz., " sharp nose, sunken eyeballs and hollow temples, the ears cold and pinched, with their lobules turned outwards; the skin of the fore- head is rough, puffy, and dry; the colour of the whole face being brown black, livid, or leaden"; this excellent description requires modification in the last statement only, where we must remember that the face described be- longed in all probability to the Oriental type. This typical case of acute peritonitis usually lasts from five to ten days, nearly all the symp- toms increasing in severity until the fatal end, which is usually heralded by the skin of the face and hands becoming cold and clammy, and tinged with a dark blue colour. Some of the more important Symptoms in Detail.—The Onset.—In most cases the onsetPERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 423 is sudden, but this largely depends upon the actual way in which the invasion of the general peritoneal cavity takes place. If it is due to the perforation of one of the hollow viscera, such as the stomach or intestine, without any previous inflammation of the peritoneum which might tend to localise the escaping contents, the onset comes with alarming suddenness. Liter- ally, within a minute the patient may pass from a condition of apparent health to a condition of collapse and shock, that has been known to end fatally within an hour. In other cases, where an organ, generally the appendix, has become inflamed for some time, the invasion of the general peritoneal cavity is, comparatively speaking, gradual, and it may take from twelve to twenty-four hours before it can be said that acute general peritonitis is definitely established. When very acute, the onset is associated with a rapidly falling temperature. In other cases there may be a rigor and a temperature of 104° or 105° within an hour or two of the commence- ment of the attack. Shock and "Peritonism." — The shock pro- duced by an extensive scald of the skin, or by the skin being badly lacerated, is extreme, and bears a very definite proportion to the area of skin involved. In the same way any extensive lesion of the peritoneum produces a similar con- dition, whether it be due to the irritation of the contents of the stomach—as, for example, in perforation of a gastric ulcer—or to the torsion of an ovarian pedicle. Fain.—This is nearly always the earliest symptom, and may vary from one that is accur- ately described by the term agonising, to one that is slight in intensity, but of the character described above (see p. 422). At first the pain is generalised over the whole abdomen, but later on it is usually referred by the patient to some definite area; very often the region of the um- bilicus seems to be the most painful. In cases where an inflammation of a definite organ has given rise to the peritonitis the pain may be referred to the region of that organ, especially in the case of the appendix. Tenderness.—This tenderness may be of two kinds:— 1. Superficial tenderness or hypereesthesia of the skin. 2. Deep tenderness, which certainly is present in the parietal peritoneum, but may also be present in the muscles or the underlying viscera. The tenderness of inflamed parietal peritoneum is very marked, and is often verified when laparo- tomy is performed under local anaesthesia. The great difficulty of proceeding with the operation is the exquisite tenderness of the parietal layer of the peritoneum (see p. 426). When the superficial tenderness is very extensive it is probably associated with inflammation of the intestines, especially the small gut. According to Head, the superficial tenderness is a referred tenderness from one or more of the organs of the abdomen, and the tenderness would follow the rules laid down by him. For instance, in the case of the intestines being inflamed the superficial tenderness would not necessarily be limited to the front of the abdomen, but there might be a bed of hypereesthesia running to the back or downwards towards the groin. On the other hand, the deep tenderness is due to the direct pressure upon the peritoneum, and is obtainable at any spot where the inflamed peri- toneum can be pressed upon. In general peri- tonitis this deep tenderness, therefore, can be elicited practically over the whole of the ab- domen, with the exception of the area posterior to a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the last rib, where it is not easy to press directly upon the peritoneum. In the early stages of general peritonitis the super- ficial tenderness is nearly always extremely well marked ; but as the inflammation progresses it begins to diminish, and may finally disappear, whereas the deep tenderness progressively in- creases until the general peritonitis is well developed. In nearly all cases of general peri- tonitis some organ of the abdomen is first affected, and this organ may continue to pre- sent its referred superficial tenderness after the general peritonitis has become established. In several cases of general peritonitis arising from appendicitis the writer has found an extensive area of superficial tenderness below the level of the umbilicus co-existing with the deep tender- ness, and at the operation advanced general peritonitis has been found. On this point, therefore, we may make two positive assertions— namely, that if the tenderness is only superficial there is no marked affection of the peritoneum; and that in cases of undoubted suppurative peritonitis due to appendicitis, and probably in any other of the ordinary causes, there may be superficial tenderness existing at the same time as the deep. Sometimes, in an attack of appendicitis in which the inflammation throughout remains localised, the superficial tenderness and rigidity of the abdominal wall may involve the whole of the abdomen in the early stages of the disease. In such cases the symptoms are highly sugges- tive of the onset of general peritonitis, and when associated with marked signs of collapse the dia- gnosis of a ruptured ulcer is sometimes almost forced upon one by the serious condition of the patient. This generalisation of the abdominal signs are probably of reflex origin, the inflamma- tion in the region of the appendix forming a spinatus strong enough to cause a spreading in the central nervous system from the representa- tion of the appendix to that of the whole of the abdominal viscera. It is this class of case that is referred to in the first paragraph of p. 422. In two of these cases the collapse was so great that the diagnosis of perforated gastric ulcer IPERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 424 I seemed inevitable; yet at the operation the general peritoneal cavity presented no sign whatever of early inflammation. Another explanation that occurs to one is that at first there is a bacterial invasion of the general peritoneal cavity, but that the peri- toneum has sufficient resisting power to repel the invasion except at the spot where the bac- terial activity is most intense, i.e. in and around the appendix. If, however, the view now gener- ally held, that inflammation is the necessary defensive and offensive weapon against bacterial assaults be true, there should be evidences ob- tained at the exploratory operation that such an attempt on the part of the peritoneum has been made. In the two cases already mentioned there was not the slightest trace of any inflam- matory reaction in the peritoneal cavity, and therefore I think we may safely conclude that the generalisation of the signs is due to a widespread disturbance in the central nervous system. Vomiting.—Next to pain this is the earliest, most constant, most distressing, and most per- sistent symptom. The abdominal muscles take little if any part in the expulsive act, so that the stomach itself does most of the work; hence the act of vomiting appears to occur without much effort. As to the causation of the vomit- ing it is very difficult to make anything like an accurate statement. In the early stages it is probably due to a large extent to the poisoning of the centre in the medulla oblongata, or to some reflex nervous action from the inflamed peritoneum, the former being the more probable. Of course, after paralysis of the intestine has set in we have another factor at play very much resembling the condition of affairs in intestinal obstruction. Like most of the symptoms of peritonitis vomiting is very variable, and may be slight or even absent. This is especially the case in the variety known as masked peritonitis. Defcecation.—In the early hours of the attack there is very often a stool which is generally described as being loose; diarrhoea is not un- common. A frequent desire to defsecate without any result is sometimes met with, especially when the inflammation has its origin in the appendix or pelvic organs, and this may be so intense as to deserve the name tenesmus. As soon as the distension of the small gut sets in the colon becomes inert, and constipation is the rule in fully-developed peritonitis. Distension of the Abdomen (Meteor-ism).—As the intestinal coils become paralysed and dis- tended and the abdominal muscles begin to relax, we get the condition of meteorism, which gradually increases until the abdomen is much distended. This gradual distension of the abdo- men is undoubtedly diagnostic of acute general peritonitis, and in the opinion of the writer it is a certain indication that no delay should occur before opening the abdomen. Of all the symp- toms of peritonitis distension of the abdomen is perhaps the most constant, and however much one may waver in the early stages of the disease, this physical sign should disperse all trace of hesitation concerning the nature of the trouble. As a rule it sets in at the end of the first forty- eight hours, but in the less acute cases it may not set in for three or even four days. There seems no doubt that the early stage of meteorism is due to distension of the small intestine, and only quite later in the course of the disease does the large gut become much distended. In my experience it is seldom that the distension of the large gut gives any trouble at an abdominal section for acute peritonitis, whereas in most cases the distended coils of small gut are most troublesome to the operator. Temperature.—This is the most variable of the whole of the symptoms, so variable, indeed, that it is safer for the practitioner to place no importance whatever upon it so far as the dia- gnosis and treatment of the disease are con- cerned. As a rule, in most diseases great stress is laid upon the importance of the temperature chart in diagnosis, and in my experience there is too great a tendency to lay stress upon, for instance, the absence of fever in a suspected case of peritonitis as throwing doubt upon the nature of the disease. It is better, therefore, to underrate rather than overrate the value of this symptom. In cases of sudden perforation of the viscera the temperature is usually sub- normal, and often remains so until the end. Method op Examination.—The patient should be placed on his back with the legs extended and the arms by the side of the body. The body is uncovered to such an extent as to show the apex beat of the heart above and Poupart's ligament below. As the examination proceeds, as much of the body should be covered up as is possible. By inspection attention should be paid to the movements of the abdominal muscles in relation to respiration, especially whether a part or the whole of the muscles are acting or not. Next, it should be noted whether the abdomen is retracted or distended. In the later cases any discoloration of the surface should be noticed, especially any discoloration around the superficial veins. 'Qy palpation we should care- fully test the superficial tenderness and the deep tenderness. In examining the abdomen with the hand it is advisable to commence on the skin of the thorax, so that the apprehensions of the patient are minimised. By percussion we may learn something from the resonance of the note whether uniform or not, and when the resonance is suggestive of tympanites. If the liver and splenic dulness are practically ob- literated the diagnosis of free gas in the peri- toneal cavity is probable. Very little aid is gained by auscultation; it is interesting to note, however, that the great physician Bright was the first to point out the existence of the friction425 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL sound in early stages of peritonitis, especially in the chronic forms. It is most important that the patient should always be examined per rectum or per vaginam to ascertain the condition of the pelvic organs. Clinical Varieties Peritonitis Fulminans, Ultra-acute Peritonitis. —All these cases are usually caused by the per- foration of some part of the alimentary canal in which no adhesions have formed from previous inflammation. The patient is suddenly seized with most acute pain, and within a few minutes is suffering from the most profound shock. As the bacterial invasion proceeds symptoms of septic poisoning rapidly develop, and the patient dies within twenty-four to forty-eight hours, without having rallied sufficiently for operative interference to be seriously entertained. There is a group of cases following operations upon the abdomen, now happily becoming less and less common, in which the patient never really recovers from the shock of the operation, but dies within twenty-four to forty-eight hours with a rather distended abdomen. At the post-mortem examination there is scarcely any evidence of inflammation of the peritoneum, certainly not enough to justify us in saying that the patient dies of peritonitis. Most surgeons consider that they are justified in looking upon this result as death from shock, and consider that the intestinal distension is due to some special reflex nervous mechanism. Some pathologists, on the other hand, have found the peritoneal cavity to be infected with micro-organisms, and they look upon these cases as instances of a very rapid invasion of the peritoneum by virulent bacteria, which grow so rapidly that inflammation has no time to develop. A definite series of accurate bacterio- logical investigations alone can settle this point. Latent or Masked Peritonitis.—The patient walks into the hospital and does not feel particularly ill; he usually states that his ill- ness commenced four or five days previously, but until that particular day he was not ill enough to seek advice. Within two or three days he suddenly becomes collapsed, and dies, with his peritoneal cavity full of pus. Owing to the absence of urgent symptoms the surgeon's help is often not summoned until the patient is too collapsed for operative interference to be anything more than a forlorn hope. Peritonitis of the New-horn Child. ■— These cases are due to one of two causes: (1) The septic infection of the umbilical cord, due prob- ably to faulty technique on the part of the accoucheur or midwife; (2) rupture of the dis- tended large intestine, which may be due to the pressure of parturition, but more likely to be the giving way of some small ulcer in the colon. Peritonitis caused by Cutaneous Erysipelas.— In rare instances erysipelas of the abdominal wall has been followed by fatal peritonitis. This is difficult to explain, because the lym- phatics of the abdominal wall do not communi- cate with those of the peritoneum. The symp- toms of the peritonitis are often masked, and not even suspected during life. Peritonitis in the Course of Acute Specific Fevers.—Peritonitis is most commonly met with in scarlet fever, as we might expect from the tendency of this disease to develop dangerous complications. In typhoid fever it may occur as the direct result of a perforating ulcer, or be due to a bacterial penetration of the wall of the alimentary canal without any physical breach of continuity. Peritonitis has also been met with in the course of measles, smallpox, and typhus fever. Rheumatic Peritonitis.—Although doubt has often been thrown upon the existence of this complication of rheumatic fever, it is definitely proved that acute inflammation of the perito- neum does sometimes occur as a complication of acute rheumatic fever. It usually terminates favourably after a few days, although fatal cases have been reported. Peritonitis in BrigMs Disease.—This is a rare complication. The mode of origin of the peritonitis in this disease, as in the case of acute rheumatic fever, is possibly as follows :—A purely chemical peritonitis is set up by toxins. After a time the wall of the intestine is sufliciently injured by this chemical peritonitis to allow the organisms contained in the intestinal contents to work their way through to the peritoneal cavity. Idiopathic or " Cryptogenetic " Peritonitis.— The more carefully cases are examined by improved modern methods the rarer does the diagnosis of idiopathic peritonitis become. At present there are two groups of cases of which the origin is absolutely obscure, and hence it is convenient to place them under this heading. In the one group the patients are children, chiefly girls, and in the other the victims are adults. In both these cases a chill is generally quoted as being the cause. The attacks of enteritis with diarrhoea so commonly met with in Europeans living in hot countries, especially in Egypt, seem to be due solely to some reflex vaso-motor disturbance from the sudden chilling of the body in an atmosphere nine times drier than the one they have been accustomed to. The cooling of the body by means of perspiration is therefore rapid, the atmosphere being very hygroscopic, so that a reflex effect is produced, causing a dilatation of the vessels of the splanch- nic area. If this condition is neglected it is easy to see how some inflamed area of the gut may prove a weak spot, and allow the germs to penetrate to the peritoneal cavity. Diagnosis.—Quite at the onset it may be very difficult indeed to diagnose the existence of peritonitis. Severe abdominal pain may bePERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 426 caused by several conditions other than peri- tonitis, e.g. in acute intestinal catarrh (entero- colitis), in which diarrhoea and intermittent colic are the chief symptoms. The diagnosis from intestinal obstruction may be quite impos- sible for the first two days, and sometimes throughout the disease. This point is not of much importance, as in either case the siirgeon would operate without delay. Sometimes the onset of an acute pleuro-pneumonia may give rise to referred tenderness in the abdomen highly suggestive of commencing peritonitis. There is a condition known as hysterical peritonitis met with on the Continent more frequently than in this country. There are certain rare conditions, such as acute hcemorrhagic pancreatitis, or a ruptured tubal pregnancy. One may admit at once that the importance of accurate diagnosis in acute inflammation of the abdomen is of minor importance. In almost all cases the surgeon has very little doubt that the condition is one for which an exploratory incision is definitely called for. In the early stage of any disease resembling peritonitis an exploratory incision would do the patient but little harm, and if the surgeon waits until his diagnosis is very certain the hopes of saving the patient become enormously lessened. The difficult question that so often arises, namely, whether the inflammation is general or local, matters but little at the present day ; in both conditions early operation is indicated. Treatment. — Indications for Operation.— With the few exceptions that make the rule it is admitted on all sides that if an acute general peritonitis becomes once established, and is allowed to run its course without surgical inter- ference, the termination is always a fatal one. The question of the indications for operation in a case of acute general peritonitis has passed through a rapid series of changes during the past ten years. At first the hesitation in diagnosis between general and local peritonitis was allowed to postpone an operation until either it was too late to save the patient if the case developed into general peritonitis, or it resolved itself simply into a question of opening a localised abscess at the end of a week or ten days. Owing to the extreme difficulty in mak- ing sure whether the trouble is going to remain localised or not, surgeons are beginning more and more to agree that operative interference should be undertaken as soon as the diagnosis of peritonitis is made, whatever it is thought might be the extent of the inflammation. I can see no way out of the difficulty, excepting to act on a uniform plan, and always to operate as soon as the diagnosis of peritonitis is made, providing the general condition of the patient justifies the procedure. It is extremely difficult to gauge the resist- ing power of a patient with acute general jjeritonitis. Sometimes a case apparently hope- less in every respect, with signs of extreme poisoning, with abundance of pus, and with distended gut, recovers rapidly after a judicious laparotomy. On the other hand, a patient with excellent pulse, and no grave signs that can be gauged, will die a short time after the operation. Of course it is most important to ascertain what drugs the patient has been having since the commencement of the illness—opium and mor- phine establish a false standard of strength ; but this important question will be dealt with at some length later on. Successful results in the operative treatment of this disease depend to an enormous extent upon the judgment of the operator, who has to consider, first of all, whether a thorough attempt can be made to deal with the case with a general an£esthetic; in which event laparotomy, flushing, and drain- age of the peritoneal cavity must be promptly carried out. But if he is of opinion that the patient cannot stand this ordeal, it may be possible to anaesthetise the patient for a short time, so that an abdominal section can be rapidly performed, and a drainage-tube with gauze packing introduced. In very bad cases, where a general anaesthetic is obviously quite out of the question, the surgeon must then attempt to do what is necessary with a local anaesthetic. In my experience, these cases do far better than one anticipates. Even with acute lobar pneumonia I have found it possible to remove a suppurating ovary in a case of acute general peritonitis, with recovery of the patient. Indeed, whenever there is marked pulmonary infection in cases of acute general peritonitis it is eminently desirable to attempt, at any rate, to deal with the case with local anaesthesia. If the patient cannot stand the pain, chloroform can then be given. It is the parietal peritoneum that is so very tender, and I have found that a per cent solution of cocaine very rapidly effects anaesthesia over a large area. The details of these operative procedures may be described under the following three headings:— 1. Laparotomy, flushing, and drainage. 2. Rapid laparotomy with drainage. 3. Laparotomy with local ana3sthesia. 1. Laparotomy, Flushing, and Drainage.— The patient being under the influence of chloroform, a free incision is made in the middle line below the umbilicus. There is a consider- able diversity of opinion amongst surgeons concerning the best anaesthetic for abdominal work. From a surgeon's point of view alone it seems to the writer that chloroform is the best, both for the rapid and comfortable per- formance of the operation and for the absence of the pulmonary disturbance so common with ether. From the anaesthetist's point of view, which is concerned solely with the patient's safety during the operation, the consensus of427 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL opinion in London is sti'ongly in favour of ether. With a competent chloroformist the writer con- siders that the safety of the patient during the operation and the few succeeding days is greater with chloroform than with ether. The abdomen being opened, the surgeon soon finds whether the case is a general one or not. A search is then made for the seat of origin of the trouble, the right iliac fossa being the starting-point. If the appendix is the offending organ, an incision should be made at a spot over it most convenient for its removal, and if possible the appendix is excised. Sometimes it is possible to remove the appendix through the median incision, but, as a rule, it is much more satis- factorily dealt with by two incisions. All traces of local suppuration should be flushed out, and the region carefully sponged. The part of the abdomen in the region of the appendix, especially the cavity of the pelvis, should be well flushed out with a normal saline solution of the temperature of the body. An india-rubber drainage-tube is placed in contact with the spot where the disease originated, whether appendix. Fallopian tubes, or else- where, and round this tube some iodoform gauze should be packed. The median wound should then be closed, and one or two stitches placed in the lateral incision so as to prevent prolapse of intestine, and at the same time not to interfere with eff^ective drainage. If no local focus can be found the abdominal wound may be closed, after thoroughly flushing the peritoneal cavity. This is a convenient place for discussing the question of drainage of the peritoneum. Technique of Drainage of the Peritoneum.—If a tube be inserted, say six inches from the skin down into the iliac fossa, and carefully examined at an autopsy twenty-four hours afterwards, it will be seen that the tube is surrounded by coils of intestine, which are sealed together with exudation which completely prevents the tube receiving any appreciative amount of the general peritoneal fluid. The surface of the coils sur- rounding the tube exudes the turbid serum, which fills the test-tube-like cavity. As soon as this liquid is removed by the syringe or by gauze the coils gradually exude another quantity. Unless the tube reaches directly down to a septic focus it seems to be of little use in draining the general peritoneal cavity. By leading down to a septic focus it helps to form a well-protected channel for the exit of any discharge from the suppurating tissue. On the whole, it seems that drainage tubes, whether made of glass or india-rubber, are quite useless as agents for draining the general cavity of the peritoneum, even when present in numbers, and indeed may do harm by mechanically irritating the coils of gut. We may sum up the role played by the drainage-tube by stating that its function is to obtain a channel through the coils of intestine by which some septic focus can discharge its contents to the exterior with ease. There is one exception to this rule, and that is in the case of the pelvis. Here there is naturally a tendency for fluid to collect in a definite quantity, so that a tube reaching to the bottom of the pelvis must assist in di'aining that basin. The question of draining the pelvis is a very important one, and some surgeons prefer to drain Douglas's pouch in women by an incision through the vagina—a proceeding, however, which necessitates additional shock, so important a factor in cases of acute peritonitis, and of which the necessity is doubtful if efficient drainage is secured by a tube and gauze from above. Several modes of draining the peritoneal cavity efficiently have been attempted, but not one has met with even moderate acceptance. Numerous strands of gauze, like a cat-o'-nine- tails, have been used, but I think with more damage to the intestine than good to the patient; incisions through the skin in the loins to drain the region of the colon and kidney, a region where pus does not collect to any marked extent, and many others equally futile. On the whole, therefore, we must trust to efficient re- moval of the fluid, whether serum or pus, by flushing, and by making sure that the focus of origin is effectively removed or placed in con- nection with the exterior by means of suitable drainage. One of the most disappointing features in the surgical treatment of general peritonitis is the tendency to distension of the intestine, especially of the small gut. Sometimes, after a thorough laparotomy, flushing, and drainage of the peritoneal cavity without markedly de- pressing the patient, there is the difficult com- plication of distension of the intestine to be overcome. The reasons for this distension have been already given, and it is chiefly to the late Greig Smith of Bristol that we are indebted for pointing out how very important it is to drain the contents of the alimentary tube as well as the peritoneal cavity. The difficulty, however, lies in the fact that when the intestine is para- lysed it is quite as difficult to effectively drain a long extent of tube as it is to drain a large extent of peritoneal cavity. Over and over again one is disappointed in the results of open- ing distended coils of small gut. The particular coil, say eighteen to twenty-four inches, rapidly collapses, but beyond that it is extremely difficult ! in many cases to get rid of much more disten- I sion. This difficulty is in marked contrast with the relief of distension in intestinal obstruction —those cases of intestinal obstruction in which \ there is no marked peritonitis. If the intestines are much distended one of the longest coils j should be incised, and a T-shaped glass tube inserted, with a thin collapsible india-rubber tube attached to it. Very often, after a few hours, the distended coils will begin to contractPERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 428 and expel the contents, although one may be very disappointed with the result at the time of operation. In these desperate cases the first point is to save the patient's life; if recovery ensues, surgery can readily deal with the arti- ficial anus that is formed. 2. Rapid Laparotomy -with Drainage.—The patient is quickly anaesthetised, and as soon as the abdominal wall is flaccid a median incision is made, and any inflammatory exudation is allowed to escape; if rapid examination reveals the focus of origin, a tube and gauze drain are inserted down to the suppurating spot. If the seat of origin cannot be found promptly, a gauze drain may be left in the peritoneal cavity and the wound partially closed. If the intestine is much dilated the first distended coil should be opened, and a T-shaped glass tube should be inserted as already described. 3. Laparotomy vnth Local Anaesthesia.—The skin of the abdomen in the middle line should be rendered ansesthetic with ^-eucaine. As much should be done as the patient can bear under the conditions of local anaesthesia. In no department of surgery is it more im- portant for the surgeon to form his opinion with decision, to commence operation without delay, and to operate quickly. Nothing is more certain than that every additional minute of exposure in the case of an abdominal section diminishes the patient's chances of recovery. After-Treatment.—There is nearly always a great deal of restlessness after laparotomy for general peritonitis, and it is generally neces- sary to give a hypodermic injection of morphine (gr. \). Very often the patients are much collapsed, and a hypodermic injection of strych- nine (gr. ^ to gr. yV) acts with an immediately good result. If the pulse becomes very feeble, it is advisable to " infuse" the patient with a normal saline solution, taking care that the sohi- tion is nmintained at the body temperature as it enters. Nothing depresses the patient more than to infuse a pint or two of solution at a temperature less than that of the body. In bad cases this " infusion " is best given through the basilic vein. In moderate cases of collapse half-pints of hot water placed into the rectum at frequent intervals are rapidly absorbed. 2. It is most important to keep the alimentary canal at rest, and tlierefore the introduction of food into the stomach should be prohibited. All food should be given by the rectum. Per- haps the best is peptonised beef-tea and small quantities of brandy. So far as nourishment is concerned, the patient obtains quite sufficient to tide him over the crisis of the disease. As a rule, if a patient is alive and improving on the fourth day after the operation, he will recover. 3. One of the most constant and difficult symptoms to treat is thirst. The general sensa- tion of thirst is best satisfied by injections of warm watfer per rectum ; but the local condition of thirst, where the patient craves for some- thing for the mouth, a little warm water, or if much preferred, a little iced water, may be given. In cases of excessive thirst a feeder full of water (5 oz.) may be given; even if this is vomited no great harm is done, provided the act is not frequently repeated. 4. The toilet of the tongue and mouth generally is most important in these cases. A little care on the part of the nurse in scraping away the debris from the furred tongue and from the dry lips, and mucous membrane of the cheeks, relieves a great deal of the patient's suffering. A solution of bicarbonate of soda (20 grs. to the oz.) is a good solution for re- moving the decomposing material, and after- wards a little weak carbolic lotion (1 in 80) is a good mouth disinfectant. 5. After the operation no aperient should be given for the first twenty-four hours. As soon as the patient has rallied sufficiently from the operation, and if there is distension of the intestine, an enema of water (a pint) combined with tincture of valerian (1 drachm) should be given. If at the end of twenty-four hours the patient is improving, small doses of sulphate of magnesium may be given, say 3j of each, every three hours, or small doses of calomel (gr. \) every thi-ee hours. The Administration op Opium and Morphine. —Before the question of operative treatment has been discussed and definitely decided upon, no opium or morphine in any form should be given. The administration of this drug causes an immediate improvement in all the symptoms ; the pain is diminished, the rigidity of the abdominal muscles may disappear altogether, and the patient's general condition is so much improved that the surgeon may be quite deceived as to the gravity of the case. Many lives have been lost owing to the false appearance of im- provement brought about by the administration of this drug. The patient's improvement may be maintained until suddenly the dose of poison absorbed from the peritoneal surface reaches its maximum, and the patient suddenly collapses. If the case is considered too bad for operative interference, then morphia may be given until the patient is quite relieved of all distressing symptoms. After the operation, we have already alluded to the value of morphine in quieting the nervous system and also in stimu- lating the action of the heart. In all post- operation cases, however, morphine should be given with especial care that no inertia of the intestines is produced. Non-operative Treatment. — According to our present knowledge, there is no reasonable method of attempting to cure a case of acute general peritonitis by medicinal means. One might be inclined to take exception to this strong statement in the case of general peri- tonitis without any local lesion. For instance.429 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL it is possible that a case of gonorrhoea! peri- tonitis, where the infection has travelled up the Fallopian tubes, might recover without operative interference. Such cases, however, are very rare, and it would be impossible to recognise them before opening the abdomen. Even in cases too much collapsed for surgical inter- ference the treatment must be directed to the alleviation of all distressing symptoms. The method of ti-eatment which has gained considerable ground on the Continent, especially in France, is the subcutaneous and intravenous injection of saline solution. The principle is to introduce into the vascular system, directly by the veins or indirectly by the subcutaneous lymphatics, a saline solution with a view to washing out the lymphatic vessels and blood- vessels, and so enabling the liver and kidneys to get rid of the toxines. This method, com- bined with operative interference, is undoubtedly an excellent combination, and seems perfectly rational. Indeed, many of my patients have the "infusion" of several pints of saline fluid if at all collapsed after the operation. Some French surgeons, however, look upon the treat- ment as sufficient in itself—e.g. Michaux says: " Qu'on ne sauvera pas tous les malades, mais qu'on aura certainement la joie d'arracher a la niort quelques-uns de ceux dont I'etat semblait le plus desespere." The solution generally used is sodium chloride 5 grams, sodium sulphate 10 grams, distilled water 1 litre. This is injected at the temperature of the body either into the subcutaneous tissue, or through the median basilic vein (see "Saline Solution, Infusion of"). According to French surgeons, remarkable im- provement and cures have been attained. Peritonitis, Acute Localised.—Acute inflam- mation of a portion of the peritoneum, due to some lesion of the organ it is covering, is a very common occurrence. It may occur in the peritoneum covering the liver, and spread thence to the peritoneum covering the lower surface of the diaphragm. It not unfrequently occurs in the peritoneum covering the stomach in the neighbourhood of a gastric ulcer. Of all the abdominal organs, the vermiform appendix is the one most commonly affected. In women there is frequently local peritonitis round the uterus and Fallopian tubes, usually termed pelvic peritonitis. The chief varieties we will consider at greater length. 1. Snhphrenic Abscess. — Inflammatory con- ditions may spread from the pleural cavities through the diaphragm to the abdomen. As a rule, however, sub-phrenic peritonitis spreads from the abdominal organs, chiefly the liver and stomach, often developing into an abscess. When the inflammation spreads from the liver, and suppuration occurs, the abscess forms be- tween the right half of the diaphragm and the upper surface of the liver, and is very often diagnosed as an empyema. On the other hand, the subphrenic abscess caused by lesions of the stomach forms on the left side. Perforations of certain parts of the stomach or the duodenum may cause effusion into the lesser sac of the peritoneum, and, according to Jordan Lloyd, pathological distension of the lesser peritoneal sac gives rise to a tumour in the left hypo- chondriac, epigastric, and umbilical regions of a somewhat characteristic shape, but which appears to vary from time to time in form and size according to the condition of the overlying stomach; for when the viscus is full of liquid contents it increases the area of the tumour's dulness, while it makes its outlines less defin- able to palpation, and if the stomach is dis- tended with gas the dull area becomes resonant, and apparently the tumour may disappear altogether. The colon always lies below the tumour, and never in front of or above it, as is the case in kidney enlargement. There is a curious form of subphrenic abscess which contains gas, and it may very closely simu- late pneumothorax. As a rule it is caused by the perforation of a gastric ulcer; less frequent causes are the perforation of a duodenal ulcer; of appendicitis; and of the perforation of ab- scesses in connection with the kidney, liver, spleen, etc. Symptoms.—These naturally vary a good deal as the primary causes are so diverse. The onset is, as a rule, abrupt, especially when due to a per- foration of a gastric ulcer. Besides the severe pain and vomiting, respiration is markedly em- barrassed, probably owing to the involvement of the diaphragm. In addition to these symptoms there are the ordinary ones associated with sup- puration in a confined space in the abdomen. Later on abscesses may spread through the diaphragm into the pleura or lung, and the pus may be coughed up by the patient. Diagnosis.—This seems to be very difficult if we may judge from the mistakes that are con- stantly made by physicians in asking surgeons to open a collection of pus in the region of the diaphragm. When the abscess is between the liver and the diaphragm it is nearly always mistaken for an empyema. When the abscess cavity contains gas, and is situated on the right side, the diaphragm may be pushed up to the level of the second or third rib, and we may get the physical signs of pneumothorax, the liver being usually greatly depressed. When the gas-containing abscess is in the lesser sac of the peritoneum it tends to give the signs of pneumothorax on the left side. Treatment.—As soon as pus is suspected in the region of the diaphragm an exploring needle should be used. If the result is positive, some indication is obtained as to the situation of the pus and its depth from the surface. If the needle gives a negative result, the surgeon must proceed to make a careful dissection down to the diaphragm in the region of its attach-PERITONEUM -ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL 430 ment to the ribs. Very often the pleural cavity overlaps the displaced diaphragm to the extent of several inches. In such cases, if the condition of the patient will allow, the lower end of the parietal pleura may be stitched to the chest-wall, and the wound plugged with iodoform gauze for twenty-four to thirty-six hours, until adhesion has formed to a sufficient extent to allow the surgeon to cut straight through the diaphragm. If after removing a piece of rib it is seen that the pleural cavity is normal, the surgeon should extend the section in a downward direction until the point of reflection of the pleura is seen. The pleura may then be pushed up, and gauze packed tightly in the upper part of the wound. If immediate evacuation of pus is necessary the diaphragm may be incised, the pus quickly removed, and the edges of the incised diaphragm stitched to the edges of the wound. The risk of infecting the pleural cavity is by no means a slight one; it is not due so much to the pus escaping into the pleural cavity at the time of the operation as to the soaking of pus into the surrounding tissues within the few hours suc- ceeding the operation, especially if drainage from the abscess cavity is not quite free, or if the upper part of the wound, in the region of the pleura, is not carefully and thoroughly packed with iodoform gauze. There is one consolation for the surgeon, viz., secondary in- fection of the pleura is common in subphrenic abscess, even before operation, so that if the germs have reached the pleura before the surgeon, nothing the latter can do is likely to prevent the development of an empyema. The following rules may be worth remembering in dealing with the surgery of subphrenic abscess : (1) When pus has been discovered by the ex- ploring needle at a certain spot an incision should be made with that spot as its centre ; (2) If 710 pus has been obtained by the needle, make a careful exploratory operation through a 4-inch incision over the tenth rib in the mid- axillary line ; (3) If 7io great urgency, pack the exposed pleura or pleural cavity with sterilised gauze, and wait twenty-four to thirty-six hours before incising the diaphragm; (4) If evacua- tion of the pus is urgent, try and expose the lower reflection of pleura, push it upwards from the ribs and pack tightly with gauze, incise diaphragm, and stitch it to the skin, insuring free drainage. 2. Ahscess around Appendix.—Owing to the inconstant position of the appendix the situation of the abscess is, of course, variable. Usually it is in the right iliac fossa, with the caecum on its outer side; sometimes it is wholly within the pelvis; it may be to the left side of the median line, in the iliac region. An important situation is sulnnesenteric, the abscess being limited above by the oblique line of the mesen- teric attachment—viz., from the right sacro- iliac synchondrosis to the left side of the second lumbar vertebra—below it reaches the hollow of the sacrum, being variably limited by coils of the small gut; to the right side is the csecum ; in front the mesentery itself and numerous coils of gut form the boundary, so that the general peritoneal cavity is exposed after cutting through the abdominal wall. Treatment.—1. The usual Type of Abscess.— When there is a dull area in the iliac fossa the incision should be made over the spot of maxi- mum dulness. The cutting should be done carefully, so that any weak adhesions may be left in order to keep the pus from spreading. Iji all cases the whole of the pus should be re- moved at once and the cavity thoroughly tvashed out. If the appendix can be easily got at it should be excised; as a rule, however, it forms a part of the abscess wall and can neither be felt nor seen. There is often a fsecal concretion present, which usually escapes through the gan- grenous aperture in the appendix, and it is important to try and get hold of this. If it does not come out with thorough flushing, I have found that a blunt Volkmann's spoon, very gently used, is generally efficient. A good- sized drainage-tube is then placed at the bottom of the cavity and packed round with iodoform gauze. The latter should be changed every twenty-four hours, and the cavity gently irri- gated ; but it is wiser to leave the tube in situ without disturbing it, and gradually shorten its outer end as the contracting cavity pushes the tube outwards. 2. The Sidtmesenteric Abscess.—An incision is made over the maximum spot of dulness which, when the patient is well under the influence of chloroform, is generally found to be near the middle line, so that in most of these abscesses a median incision is the best. The general cavity of the peritoneum is usually opened up, but there may be some slight adhesions. Having carefully plugged the wound with iodoform gauze, by gentle manipula- tion an entry is made with the finger into the abscess cavity, which should be at once flushed out and then thoroughly sponged out so that as little as possible is left behind. A drainage tube is then inserted packed round with gauze, and if the condition of the patient is favourable the dressing may be left for two days without being changed so that adhesions may become definitely formed. Provided precaution is taken against the spreading of the pus into the general peritoneal cavity both during the opera- tion and afterwards, these cases do remarkably well. Abscess in the Pelvis.—These are very difficult to drain from any abdominal incision, and may be better reached through the ischio-rectal fossa on the right side. An incision is made midway between the anus and the ischial tuberosity, and the tissue of the fossa is thoroughly incised431 PERITONEUM—ACUTE PERITONITIS, GENERAL as far as the levator ani. With gentle pressure from above the bulging of the abscess may be felt, and the muscle should be perforated with a pair of sinus forceps. The opening may then be enlarged, the pus washed out, and a drainage tube inserted. I have performed this operation in one patient with an excellent result, the abscess closing in a remarkably short time. The only trouble here is the question of haemor- rhage ; if a large branch of one of the hsemor- rhoidal arteries or veins be divided there may be considerable haemorrhage before it can be readily stopped. Peritoneum — Tuberculous Peritonitis. Mode of Infection . . . .431 Varieties . . . . . .431 Miliary Peritoneal Tuherctdosis . 431 Symptoms . . . . .431 Treatment . . . . .431 Chronic Tuberculous Peritonitis— Varieties ..... 432 Symptoms ..... 432 Duration ..... 432 Complications .... 432 Treatment . . . . .432 Peritonitis associated with Pneumococci 433 Peritonitis associated with Suppura- tion IN other Serous Membranes, or POLYORROMENITIS .... 434 Peritonitis in the New-Born— Congenital or Foetal.... 434 Acquired...... 434 Peritonitis due to Actinomycosis . . 434 Tuberculous Peritonitis most often occurs in patients under twenty years of age, and in boys, perhaps, rather more frequently than in girls. It is an inflammation of the peritoneum asso- ciated with the presence of Koch's tubercle bacillus or the toxins produced by it. The infection reaches the peritoneum by the alimentary canal, through the blood-stream or along the lymphatics. Tuberculous peritonitis is hardly ever primary, though it is possible for the bacilli to leave an intestine which is anatomically intact. It is generally secondary to other tuberculous foci either in the bronchial glands, the bones, joints, or even the genito- urinary tract. The mesenteric glands may be the seat of tuberculous deposits, but the more common enlargements of these glands occurring in tabes mesenterica, known as " consumption of the bowels," is nearly always associated with chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh, which is the result of improper feeding and is not tuber- culous in origin. Anything which lowers the resisting power of the peritoneum will, as in other tuberculous leisons, determine the deposit of the bacillus, so that injuries to the abdomen, new growths in the form of cysts or hydatids, and such abdominal operations as the radical cure of hernia, etc., may lead to an attack of tuberculous peritonitis in persons who are otherwise predisposed to the disease. Varieties.—Tuberculous peritonitis occurs in a miliary or acute form, and in a cJwonic ulcerat- ing and fibrous type. But this classification is only adopted for descriptive purposes, since every case which is examined carefully will show evidence of the co-existence of each variety. A tuberculous peritonitis may run its course without suppuration, as a pure culture of tubercle bacillus is not pyogenic. The infection, on the other hand, is usually a mixture of tubercle bacilli with staphylococci, so that pus is often found. Miliary peritoneal tuberculosis is usually acute, and partly in consequence of the intimate ancestral connection between the peritoneum and pleura, partly owing to the greater ab- sorptive power possessed by the peritoneum covering the diaphragm, the pleura is nearly always affected in this form of peritonitis. Symptoms. — The onset is generally slow, though in some cases it is so sudden that the abdomen has been opened for the relief of acute intestinal obstruction. The usual symptoms are pain and tenderness over the abdomen, a flatulent distension of the intestines, malaise, headache, quick breathing, and an anxious expression. The bowels are relaxed and there are occasional attacks of diarrhoea; whilst the patient has a hectic temperature—that is to say, the feverishness is better marked in the afternoon and evening than in the morning—and he loses flesh. The local abdominal symptoms are often masked by those belonging to the general tuberculosis of which they form a part. But there is no doubt that many cases have been mistaken for typhoid fever until the appearance of dropsy or a post-mortem examination has revealed the true nature of the disease. The acute cases last from one to three months, and end either in death or by passing into one of the more chronic forms. When death occurs it is due more to the general condition of the patient than to the peritonitis. The prognosis, therefore, though bad, is not quite hopeless, but it should be remembered that the condition is one which is peculiarly likely to recur. The general peritoneal cavity remains open during the acute stage of miliary tuberculosis, and is not shut off hj adhesions, and the inflamed visceral layer of the peri- toneum is studded with numberless small, grey translucent tubercles which feel quite hard. The mesenteric glands, though enlarged, are not greatly affected. 'Treatment.—Unfortunately, very little can be done for those cases of acute miliary tuber- culosis. The affection is only part of a general disease, and it is useless to open the abdomen. Reliance must therefore be placed on constitu-PERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 432 tional remedies, whilst the open-air treatment and forced feeding may be adopted as early as possible if the symptoms show any tendency to become subacute or chronic. Chronic tuberculous poitonitis includes an ulcerating form in which the tuberculous deposits show a tendency to caseate, and a fibrous form in which numerous adhesions are formed. The onset of these forms of chronic tuber- culous peritonitis is usually so gradual as to pass unnoticed. The patient becomes languid, loses flesh, has a hectic temperature, and only complains of tympanites and a little abdominal tenderness. The abdomen, if there be ascites, gradually enlarges until it is I'ounded and shiny with many dilated veins on its surface. The cause of the ascites is not fully known. It may disappear spontaneously, but its reappearance does not seem to be always coincident with a recrudescence of peritoneal tubercle, and it is not necessarily most abundant in cases where the liver changes are most marked. The fluid is either free in the peritoneal cavity or it is localised. When it is free, the abdomen, as in ordinary ascites, is dull on percussion in front and resonant in the flanks, the line of dulness altering with the position of the patient. When the fluid is localised the cysts can be detected as tense swellings which are usually situated above the umbilicus. The caseating masses of tubercle can often be felt as nodules within the abdomen. The disease in its fibrous form lasts months or years, and shows a tendency to undergo spontaneous cure, but in the caseating form the patient usually dies of lardaceous disease unless he is carried off" by meningitis or the exhaustion produced by diarrhoea. Complications.—A latent pleurisy, secondary to inflammation of the peritoneum, is the most common complication of chronic tuberculous peritonitis. A transient meningitis is some- times observed, characterised by violent head- ache, vomiting, slowness of the pulse, and some retraction of the head. Sometimes the liver is profoundly aiTected, the cells undergoing fatty degeneration. Fcecal fistulte, too, may be formed by the tuberculous inflammation spread- ing inwards through the bowel wall, or, more rarely, outwards from ulceration of the intes- tine. These Astute may discharge themselves at the umbilicus in the unopened abdomen, though they usually appear at the scar when an abdominal section has been previously per- formed. They are usually of bad omen, but they sometimes close spontaneously. 1 have lately had a boy under my care who suff'ered from most of tiie sequelae of tuberculous peritonitis, and as his case is fairly typical, it may be stated briefly. He was a sciiool-boy, aged six years, who had never enjoyed very good health, but for the week before he was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital he had been more poorly than usual. He vomited at intervals and complained of severe stomach- ache. He had been obstinately constipated, but never to the extent of complete obstruction. On his admission to the hospital on July 5, 1901, he was in obvious pain, the stomach-ache being limited to the left side of his abdomen. The abdomen was full, but was not markedly distended, and the right rectus abdominis was less rigid than the left. A rectal examination showed that the anterior wall of the rectum was somewhat bulged backwards, but no definite tumour could be felt. During the two days following his admission to the hospital the patient's condition became worse, the abdomen was more distended, the pain increased, and there was a considerable amount of intestinal obstruction. We made a diagnosis of tuberculous periton- itis leading to the formation of bands of adhesion. I opened the abdomen in the middle line below the umbilicus by an incision two inches in length. The coils of small intestine were adherent to each other and to the parietal layer of the peri- toneum, and a thicker band of fibrous tissue appeared to be constricting a loop of small in- testine just opposite the centre of the incision. I divided this band, gently separated the ad- hesions, and then passed my finger downwards first into the right iliac fossa to exclude the possibility of an appendicitis, afterwards into the left iliac fossa where the patient had com- plained of most pain. Nothing abnormal was felt on the right side, but as soon as the coils of intestine on the left side were disturbed, a gush of stinking pus escaped to the amount of four or five ounces. I allowed as much of the pus to escape as possible, and then passed a large rubber drainage-tube deeply into the iliac fossa, partly closed the wound with sutures of silk- worm-gut, and dressed it with cyanide gauze. The patient did well from the 18th to the 25th July, when the symptoms of intestinal obstruction again occurred. I therefore re- opened the wound and found numerous adhe- sions binding together several coils of small in- testine. I freed these adhesions, and assured myself that there was no longer any pus pent up in the peritoneal cavity. Three days after the operation he had a faecal fistula—for the discharge from the abdomen was distinctly ftecal—and charcoal given by the mouth appeared at the wound in five hours. This fistula closed spontaneously, the fteces ceasing to pass on 22nd August. He left the hospital fat and well on 1st September. Treatment.—The ordinary palliative means must first be tried in every case of chronic tuberculous peritonitis, and if these fail, an abdominal section yields the most satisfactory results if the patients submitted to operation are selected with moderate care.PERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 433 The operation was first done in 1862 by Spencer Wells, who opened an abdomen for the removal of an ovarian tumour, only to find that the peritoneum was studded with miliary tubercles, and its cavity contained a large quantity of opalescent fluid. The operation has been performed repeatedly, and the latest stat- istics show that 70 to 80 per cent of the cases of tuberculous peritonitis are cured by this means, even when five years are allowed to elapse without recurrence before a patient is said to be cured. The mortality from the operation is not more than 3 per cent, and the cases which are not cured are markedly relieved. Recurrence takes place from time to time, and in the ascitic form the abdomen may refill. Abdominal section may then be repeated and with successful results, but in a few cases 1 have seen a tuberculous dermatitis spreading from the edge of the wound. The pathology of the cure is not understood, though it is supposed that the abdominal section excites so lasting an hypersemia of the perito- neum as to check the tubercular invasion. The best results are obtained in the ascitic forms where there are but few adhesions ; the least successful cases are those of miliary tubercle. Abdominal section is useless in patients who are suffering from general tuberculosis, exten- sive lesions of the lungs, tuberculosis of the liver, kidney, intestines, and female generative organs, though in the slighter cases the infected organ may be removed at the time the fluid is evacuated. The incision in the ordinary ascitic cases should be made below the umbilicus, care being taken not to wound the bowel or omentum, for they are often adherent to the peritoneum ; not to injure the bladder, which in children often extends higher in the abdomen than is expected ; and not to work too cautiously by dissecting with undue care through the thickened and cedematous subperitoneal tissues. These tissues are sometimes so greatly thickened in chronic tuberculous peritonitis as to be mistaken for the omentum, and an extensive dissection, by opening up difi"erent layers of tissue, militates against rapid healing of the wound. The peri- toneum should be cautiously pricked with a scalpel after it has been raised by forceps, and the incision should be enlarged with blunt- pointed scissors to the full extent of the wound, the fingers being used as a director to prevent injury to the bowel. The fluid should be allowed to escape freely, but the adhesions must be treated according to the individual case. The only general rule that can be laid down is to touch them as gently as possible—for they may bleed freely, and the htemorrhage is difficult to stop—and to do no more to them than is absolutely necessary. Even dense adhesions VOL. VII have been known to disappear completely after a simple abdominal section. I prefer not to flush the abdominal cavity, especially if there has been a localised abscess, as the cases do equally well without it, and there is some danger of disseminating the disease still more widely. Hot salt solution or boric lotion should be used when it is decided to flush the peritoneum ; and no antiseptic, how- ever weak, for it is impossible to remove it all from the abdominal cavity, and many pints are used if the infusion has been large. This was impressed upon me a year or two ago, when a patient from whom 1 had removed twenty quarts of tuberculous ascitic fluid had a sharp attack of mercurial poisoning, because I had flushed his abdomen with a 1 in 10,000 solution of biniodide of mercury. The abdominal wound should be sewn up at once if the effusion has been clear or only sero- purulent, but it must be drained freely if an abscess has been opened. All parts of the wound must be brought into good apposition, for there is some tendency to the formation of a ventral hernia after these operations. The drainage-tube should be removed at the end of two or three days. The after-treatment, upon which much of the success of the operation depends, consists in keeping the patient quiet, but not necessarily motionless, in bed, and in a room whose temper- ature is maintained at 65° F. Small doses of opium may be given for the first day or two after the operation if there is much pain ; if the temperature rises and enemata fail to act, a little magnesia or a few grains of calomel will reduce it by relieving the bowels. The food should be given in a concentrated form, and it may often be peptonised with advantage. A belt should be worn for a considerable time after the end of convalescence, in order still further to reduce the risk of a ventral hernia. Peritonitis associated with Pneumococci.—• Tuberculous peritonitis is likely to be mistaken for another insidious form of peritonitis asso- ciated with the presence of pneumococci. The affection exists in two forms—either primarily, when it may co-exist with meningitis, pleurisy, or pericarditis, or secondarily in con- nection with pneumonia. The disease runs a prolonged course, charac- terised by great pain, much meteorism, and constant vomiting. The bowels may remain regular throughout the attack, and there is often a normal temperature. The peritonitis is always suppurative, the pus being of the consistency of cream, greenish in colour, and with a tendency to clot. It has a faint and characteristic smell. Laparotomy affords the only prospect of successful treatment, and the sooner it is done the better, for the plastic exudation glues the intestines together and makes the operation difficult if it be delayed. 28PERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 434 The surgeon must be especially careful not to overlook abscesses in other parts of the serous cavities, as pneumococci peritonitis is often associated with empyema and suppurative pericarditis. Suppurative Peritonitis associated with Suppuration in other Serous Membranes, or PoLYORROMENiTis.—The Italian physicians have given the name polyorromenitis to an analogous condition of suppuration in several serous cavities, and the disease has been carefully studied by Dr. Frederick Taylor. There is but little dovibt, however, that the affection is not a definite pathological entity, but is often the result of a general infection often beginning without any assignable cause, and running an abnormal course in weakly persons. Bacteriological examination shows that tuber- cle bacilli, pneumococci, staphylococci, and even streptococci, are found in the pus contained in the serous cavities. The affection is more frequent in males than in females, and the majority of patients are between the ages of sixteen and thirty, though one of my cases occurred in a girl of five and a half, and the other in a girl aged four years. One serous cavity is usually invaded before the others, and the peritoneum is generally attacked first, then the pleurae, and the right pleura before the left. Sometimes the pleura is attacked before the peritoneum, pericarditis following the pleurisy especially when it has been on the left side. The interval between the invasion of the different serous sacs may be a few weeks or some months. The prognosis is fairly good. Picchini finds that in 50 cases there were 22 deaths, 21 re- coveries, and 7 cases improved ; in the two cases luider my own care the one recovered, the other died. Recovery may take place either com- pletely or with the formation of adhesions; the fatal termination may either be directly from suppuration, or more remotely from phthisis. The treatment consists in letting out the pus as it is formed in the different cavities, and by the use of mercurial inunctions over the affected parts, combined with the ordinary medical treat- ment of suppurative peritonitis (see p. 429). Peritonitis in the New-Born.—Fmtal or Intra-uterine Peritonitis.—Peritonitis in all its forms is known to occur during foetal life, for children are born dead with evidence of ascitic, adhesive, and suppurative inflammation. Syphilis is an assigned cause, probably with truth in many cases ; but that there are other reasons for the peritonitis is shown by the fact that of twins one may be born alive and healthy, the other dead with advanced peritonitis. The chronic peritonitis of foetal life is often associated with, and perhaps causes, an arrest in the development of the alimentary canal. I had such a case under my care on December 7, 1900, when a male child aged four days was brought to the Victoria Hospital for Children because the bowels had not been relieved since his birth. On passing a finger into the rectum a distinct membrane could be felt stretching across the bowel about 2| inches from the anus. The obstruction was considered to be due to an imperforate rectum, and the child was submitted to a left inguinal colotomy, but without much relief of symptoms, and he died seventeen hours after the operation. The autopsy showed that the bulk of the intestines were matted together to form a roundish mass. The adhesions were of long standing, and must have resulted from intra-uterine peritonitis. The intestine ended blindly about two feet below the stomach, and at a second point situated on the right side of the abdominal cavity. The bowel was almost black in colour; it was covered with lymph and presented many adhesions. Acquired Peritonitis.—Peritonitis is also found as an acquired disease in the new-born. It usually depends upon puerperal infection, and is brought about by the direct extension of septic inflammatory processes from the um- bilical cord. It is due in a few cases to rupture of the bowel resulting from an imperforate anus, or still more rarely to rupture of the sigmoid flexure which has been assumed by Zillner and Gersich to be due to direct pressure upon the bowel during parturition. I have also seen it start from the sloughing of the thin wall of a true exomphalos. The symptoms are often obscure, and the condition may not be recognised during life. But in a typical case the onset is sudden, with vomiting and a temperature of 103° to 105° F. The pulse is small and rapid, the respirations hurried, and there is great prostration. The abdomen becomes swollen and tympanitic, and there may or may not be diarrhoea. The prognosis is very bad as nearly all the cases die. Treatment. — Abdominal section is useless, but the stomach should be fomented with compresses soaked in hot boric lotion. Drop doses of paregoric may be given every hour with ten drops of brandy in a tea-spoonful of hot water. The child should be suckled, but if this is impossible it should be fed on small doses of peptonised food or raw meat juice. Post-mortem examination shows that the inflammation has been either local or general. The local inflammation is generally limited to the neighbourhood of the umbilicus or the liver. The infection is usually streptococcic. Peritonitis due to Actinomycosis.—Local- ised peritonitis is occasionally met with as a result of the invasion of actinomyces—the Ray fungus. The primary seat of growth is the alimentary tract or the liver, the appendix and caecumPERITONEUM—TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 435 being the particular parts of the intestine most often attacked. When the growth occurs at the right iliac region there appears to be no means of dis- tinguishing it from an ordinary suppurative appendicitis. It runs a much more chronic course, however, for when the abscess has been opened a fistulous tract is left, the skin becomes involved in the inflammatory process, and the diagnosis is made at last by finding that the pus contains the characteristic actinomycotic granules. When the liver is attacked the symptoms are still more obscure, for it may be impossible to detect any abscess, though there is evidence of extensive inflammatory thickening of the aff'ected organ and of the overlying peritoneum. There is usually very extensive suppuration, and the patient dies with abscesses in many of his organs, some of the pus being the result of dissemination of the actinomyces. Large doses of iodide of potassium have a very remarkable efl'ect in curing actinomycotic inflammations, and even when they do not cure the condition of the patient is greatly improved. The drug may be rapidly increased from the ordinary medicinal dose of 5 or 10 grains iintil a drachm is given three times a day. The dose is then reduced to 40 or 50 grains three times a day, which may be given for many weeks in succession. The patient actually gains in flesh and spirits so long as he is taking these large doses of potassium iodide until he ceases to need the drug. Peritoneum—Tumours. Innocent— Solid 435 Subperitoneal Inflamrtiatory Swellings 435 Fihronuita . . . . .435 Lipomata ..... 436 Myomata and Fihro-Myomata . . 436 Lymphangiomata and Hoematomata . 436 Cystic 437 Inflammatory ..... 437 Parasitic. . . . . .437 Dermoid . . . . . .437 licevi ...... 437 Malignant— Sarcomata . . .438 Endotheliomata .... 438 Carcinomata ..... 438 Peritoneal tumours can be classified, like tumours in other parts of the body, into inno- cent and malignant, each group containing solid and cystic swellings. The solid innocent tumo%trs of the peritoneum are either inflammatory, or they grow in virtue of the peritoneum being a mesoblastic structure, and they are therefore of the mesoblastic type. The inflammatory swellings are aways sub- peritoneal, and occur in the loose cellular tissue which forms the lower or subphrenic portion of the vast and complicated distribution of meso- blastic elements primarily developed round the great vessels in front of the spine, and after- wards enclosing the receptaculum chyli and its glands and branches, the great sympathetic plexuses, and the lumbar and sacral nerves. It is best known at the part where it is prolonged into the liver, as Glisson's capsule, and where a more condensed portion with an additional quantity of fat forms the capsule of the kidney. The less known portions cover the pancreas, the third part of the duodenum, and the pre- sacral region. The subperitoneal tissue is subject to many causes of inflammation, some of which have already been described under the headings of Subphrenic Abscess, Perinephric Abscess, Pelvic and Prevesical Cellulitis, and Fat Necrosis associated with disease of the pancreas. Many idiopathic forms exist which resemble the "cold abscesses" of the old pathologists. These abscesses may appear spontaneously in delicate persons with a predisposition to tubercle. They are found after slight injuries, and at the present time I have a man under my care with a lumbar abscess which is traceable to a carbuncle on the neck from which he suff"ered some two months since. Similar meta- static abscesses may occur after such operations as the radical cure of hernia, castration, or ligature of a varicocele when the surgeon from any cause has been unsuccessful in keeping the wound aseptic. The treatment in many of the slighter cases consists in fomenting the part and keeping the patient at rest for a few days, when they sub- side spontaneously ; but when suppuration has occurred the abscess should be laid open, scraped with a flushing scoop through which boracic lotion is flowing at a temperature of 110°-115° F., and afterwards sewn up to obtain union by first intention. The chief innocent peritoneal tumours are fibromata, lipomata, and a mixture of the two, or fibro-lipomata. They usually grow from the subperitoneal tissue, but they are occasionally found within the peritoneal cavity springing from the mesentery. The fibromata are of pathological rather than of surgical interest. They are usually situated on the visceral aspect of the parietal layer of the peritoneum, in the region of the liver and spleen, either as hard plates or small globular masses, and they are associated with long- standing inflammation of the hepatic and splenic capsules. A superficial examination shows that they resemble cartilage in their physical char- acters, but histology proves them to be masses of dense fibrous tissue, like that of the s^lb- stantia propria of the cornea, provided with flattened connective tissue corpuscles. They436 PERITONEUM—TUMOURS often become calcified. There is no treatment for them, as they are hardly ever recognised during life. The fatty tumours always grow from the sub- peritoneal tissue. To a certain extent they are normal structures, and every surgeon who per- forms the radical operation for the cure of hernia knows that he often meets with them at the internal abdominal ring in males and in the femoral canal in women. They are also found at the obturator foramen and in the linea alba, and in all these situations they may be mistaken for hernise. Lipomata sometimes grow in the subserous tissue behind the kidneys and in the iliac fossa, whilst by insinuating themselves between the layers of the mesentery they may encircle the small intestine, and may thus appear to be intraperitoneal in origin. Indeed, in some cases they have been found to lie free in the abdominal cavity, the explanation of such a condition being that they have been attached to a very delicate pedicle, which has been torn through either shortly before death or during post-mortem examination. The lipomata or fibro-lipomata are usually of small size, but sometimes they attain huge dimensions, and have been known to weigh sixty pounds. Histologically they are pure fatty tumours, fatty tumours with much fibrous tissue or myxomatous growths. The symptoms vary with the situation and size of the growth. Lipomata lying in the inguinal and femoral rings, even when they are small, have been mistaken for inflamed or stran- gulated herniee. The resemblance is often close because the tumours give an impulse on cough- ing, and may cause both pain and vomiting. The larger growths have often been diagnosed as ascites and ovarian tumours. These mistakes, however, may be avoided with a little care, for the smaller tumours are situated more super- ficially than a true hernia, and the larger lipomata are soft, and move, as a whole, in a very characteristic manner. The prognosis in the small tumours is favour- able, and they may be removed without hesi- tation if they are troublesome. But in the large tumours the prognosis is much less favourable. They are deeply seated in the abdominal cavity, a large operation is required for their removal, and they have often formed dense adhesions to the surrounding tissues and organs. MM. Terrier and Guillemin have only had 4 recoveries in 11 operations. The myomata spring chiefly from the uterus and its ligaments, but they occasionally grow independently from the scattered muscular fibres in the broad ligament, or from the suspensory bands in the mesentery and else- where. The fihro-niyotnata occur as a variety of these unstriped muscle tumours, and they are some- times multiple, as in the case quoted by the late Mr. William Anderson, which occurred at Tokyo Charity Hospital. The patient was a girl aged nine years, from whom twenty-one rounded tumours of various sizes were removed from different parts of the subperitoneal tissue, extending from the pelvis to the hypochondrium. The heaviest tumour weighed more than seven pounds. They were soft, but elastic, white and wax-like on section, and under the microscope they were found to consist of dense fibrous tissue containing some unstriped muscle fibres. The tumours were distinctly encapsuled, and shelled out readily. But the patient, who was an emaciated child, died of shock directly after the operation. The hinocent cystic tumours of the peritoneum are the result of injuries; they are inflammatory, parasitic, or connected with foetal remains. Lymphangiomata and haematomata are found within the peritoneal cavity in consequence of obstruction to the lymphatics or the blood- vessels, especially in the immediate neighbour- hood of new growths. They are not of any practical importance. Dr. Rolleston has called attention in the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. xlix., 1898, p. 145, to the manner in which cysts may be produced by simple obstruction in the lesser sac of the peri- toneum. The case was that of a man aged twenty-five, who was seized with vomiting a fortnight before his death, the vomiting con- tinuing during the rest of his life. He had pain in the lower part of his abdomen which was never very acute. It came on before he vomited, and was sometimes relieved by the emptying of his stomach. The patient had always suffered from constipation, which had been more marked since the onset of his illness. There was no history of any abdominal injury, there was no jaundice, hsematemesis, nor melsena, and the patient had wasted consider- ably since the vomiting began. An indistinct tumour was felt below the left hypochondrium, with the stomach resonance above it, the heart's apex being in the fourth costal interspace. The diagnosis lay between carcinoma of the stomach and a pancreatic cyst. It was found at the autopsy that the patient had died of an acute inflammation of the pancreas. There was no general peritonitis, but the lesser sac of the peritoneum (the "omental bursa" of American authors) was foiuid distended with grumous fluid, yellowish-brown in colour, and turbid. The foramen of Winslow was obliter- ated, so that there was a localised peritoneal effusion, the stomach being pressed forwards and flattened on the front of the distended lesser sac, the walls of which were thickened by inflammation and showed scattered areas of fat necrosis. The mechanism by which the effusion becomes limited to the lesser sac depends on the sealing up of the foramen of Winslow, which may be one of the first effectsPERITONEUM—TUMOUKS 437 of a pancreatic inflammation, or may be caused by a pre-existing inflammation spreading from the common bile-duct. Carcinoma, in like manner, may obliterate the foramen of Winslow by adhesions starting from the gall-bladder. Multiple cysts filled with serous fluid are sometimes developed in the root of the mesen- tery without invading the pelvis. The parasitic cysts are hydatids. They may be sterile cysts—" acephalo-cyst"—-the ordinary proliferating cyst, or proliferating cysts in which the secondary cysts are undergoing de- generative changes. The following case shows the ordinary symptoms and treatment of a case of peritoneal hydatid. A boy of sixteen was admitted to St. Bartholomew's Hospital for a tumour which occupied the whole of the lower half of the abdomen from the umbilicus to the symphysis pubis in its long diameter, and from crest to crest of the ilium transversely. The tumour was divided sharply into two lobes by a con- striction which was apparently due to the urachus. The swelling was fixed, and the skin was movable freely over it. There was no thrill, but it was dull on percussion. Abdominal exploration showed the tumour to be a sterile hydatid cyst which grew from the left side of the pelvis, and was adherent to the omentum, intestines, and bladder. As it was impossible to separate the external or adventitious cyst from these adhesions the tumour was opened, the fluid was allowed to escape, and the whole of the endocyst was removed. The edges of the adventitious cyst were then stitched to the abdominal walls, excluding the skin, a drainage- tube was inserted to the bottom of the cyst, and the skin was closed over the wound. The tube was allowed to remain from the 11th to the 21st September, when it was removed, and the patient was discharged with the wound soundly healed on October 8. The ectocyst may often be closed at once if the surgeon is sure of his asepsis, and the abdominal wound will then heal by first intention. Cysts due to foetal remains are usually found in the tissue between the rectum and coccyx. In the simplest form they are single or multiple cysts lined with cylindrical ciliated epithelium and containing a clear serous fluid. An instance of such a tumour was recently vmder observa- tion at the Victoria Hospital for Children, in a child aged two months, who was suff'ering from retention of urine and obstruction of the bowels. A bimaniial examination through the rectum and abdomen revealed a tense and elastic swelling upon the right side of the pelvis reaching from the pubes to the umbilicus. The swelling was fixed and pyriform in shape, the upper broad end being rounded and sharply defined. The abdomen was opened in the middle line, but the tumour was too deeply seated and firmly fixed to allow of its removal. The child died two days after the operation, and the kidneys were then seen to be in a condition of hydronephrosis, the ureters were dilated, and the bladder thick- ened from the pressure exercised by the swelling. The rectum was normal for an inch above the anus, but immediately beyond this point a large oval swelling projected into the lumen without causing any gross lesion. The uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes were normal. The tumour was a simple, thick-walled sac, filled with clear fluid, and there is little doubt that the child would have lived if I had incised the swelling and let out the contents. The specimen is in the museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Z)er»ioic?s are sometimes intraperitoneal, though they are more often found in the presacral region. The intraperitoneal dermoids may occur as mul- tiple tumours of small size attached to the peritoneum, hanging from the under-surface of the liver, or embedded in adhesions between the coils of intestine. The presacral dermoids are usually found in women, probably because their pelvic organs are more often and more carefully examined than those of men. A few months ago I saw one in an art student, aged twenty-one, in whom it would probably have remained undetected if he had not suff"ered from an attack of appendi- citis which led to a rectal examination. He was then found to have an elastic tumour as large as a hen's egg in the tissue behind the centre of the posterior wall of the rectum, just above the internal sphincter. The swelling was tender, and for a time it was thought to be inflammatory in origin and connected with the appendicular trouble from which he was suffering. The patient recovered in due course from the attack of appendicitis, but the tumour remained unchanged, and an exploration was carried out on the assumption that it was a chronic abscess which might end in a fistula. The swelling was incised through the ischio-rectal fossa, and its contents immediately showed it to be a dermoid cyst. The wound was therefore cleansed and closed, as it was placed inconveniently for the larger operation which had now become neces- sary. The patient was then turned on his side, the coccyx was removed, and the entire cyst was dissected out. The man recovered without delay, as the wound healed by first intention. Noivi of the peritoneum are rare, but a case is recorded by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane in a child aged seven years. The tumour had been noticed at birth, and had increased in size until it formed a prominent swelling occupying the right side of the abdomen. It extended from near the middle line in front to the loin behind, and from the margin of the thorax above to the iliac crest. The abdominal wall seemed to be involved, and fluctuation was felt over the most prominent portions. In the course of a success- ful excision of the growth several large cysts, some nearly as big as an orange and many438 PERITONEUM—TUMOURS smaller ones, were opened and found to contain liquid blood, their inner aspect being smooth and polished. The tumour appeared to start in the outer surface of the peritoneum, forming livid projections into the peritoneal cavity, and externally it invaded the muscles of the ab- dominal wall. It extended upwards beneath the diaphragm and backwards into relation with the kidney. It proved to be naevoid in char- acter, and was apparently undergoing rapid degeneration. Malignant Disease of the Peritoneum still stands in need of much further study from a pathological standpoint. It is divisible broadly into sarcoma and carcinoma, but the two grovips are not yet clearly differentiated from each other, and their tumours are sometimes mis- taken for inflammatory tumours which either disappear spontaneously or when a surgeon has been led to give a fatal prognosis after an exploratory abdominal section. The sarcomata are either primary, arising in the recto-peritoneal tissue, the great omentum, the mesentery, or the broad ligaments ; or they are secondary to disease of the testis or ovary, from which they spread by direct extension. They occur more often in males than in females, and in adults than in children. The peritoneal sarcomata are usually described as being of the round or spindle celled variety, or as lympho- sarcomata, but there is an increasing tendency amongst pathologists to classify most of these tumours as endotheliomata. The endotheliomata are generally seen as multiple flattened growths, whitish in colour, and either discrete or connected with each other by bands of adhesion. The growths usually cause effusion into the peritoneal cavity, and they give rise to secondary deposits in other serous membranes, though the various organs of the body usually escape. Endothelial tumours ai'e characterised by the presence of nests or clusters of cells which have a columnar appear- ance at the periphery of the growths. These clusters of cells lie in a dense fibrous tissue and exactly follow the course of the lymphatic vessels. The origin of the cells is not yet known ac- curately ; but they seem to be derived from the endothelial lining of the lymphatics, unless they come from the multiplication of the epithelium of the coelom or primitive body cavity. Peritoneal endotheliomata, like endothelio- mata in other parts, undergo various degen- erative changes, chief amongst which are their conversion into myomata and the fonnation of blood cysts by an angioplastic formation. Carcinomata of the peritoneum are all second- ary, the primary growth being found in the gall- bladder, pancreas, or ovaries. Enormous masses of " colloid cancer" are sometimes found in- vading the mesentery, probably by extension from the stomach or rectum. The symptoms of malignant disease of the peritoneum are always obscure. When it is primary there is probably very little more than loss of weight, "dyspepsia," and general malaise. The discovery of an abdominal tumour, which increases in size and causes various pressure symptoms according to its position, sometimes renders the diagnosis more clear, though it occasionally makes it more obscure; for in several cases an abdominal section has revealed the presence of a swelling which was thought to be a sarcoma, so large and so intimately adherent to the surrounding tissues and organs as to be beyond the possibility of removal. Yet from the time of the operation the swelling has got steadily smaller, and in the end has com- pletely disappeared, the patient recovering his former good health. I have ventured to speak of these swellings as "Vanishing Tumours" {The Lancet, vol. i., 1899, p. 583). They were probably retroperitoneal inflammatory swellings, connected perhaps with tubercle, syphilis, or sepsis, which have been diagnosed incorrectly as malignant. No treatment is of much avail in cases of malignant disease of the peritoneum. Surgery offers no radical cure, and medicine only affords the palliative measures which ensure a eutha- nasia. Endothelial tumours can usually be shelled out of the capsule in which they are enclosed. A determined attempt should there- fore be made to enucleate them in spite of the adhesions of surrounding organs and tissues to their exterior, for if they are left untouched they soon cause death. Peritonism.—This term has been used in two senses, first, in that of a pseudo-peritonitis, with the symptoms, but without the gravity or the permanent effects of true peritonitis; or, second, in that of a group of serious phenomena occurring in the course of peritonitis, or of any disease of an organ or part covered by peritoneum Peritonitis. See Peritoneum, Patho- logy ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis ; Peri- toneum, Tuberculous Peritonitis. See also cross-refh'ences under Peritoneum. Peritonsillitis.—Inflammation of the tissues around the tonsils (peritonsillar tissues) See Tonsils, Diseases of {Chronic Tonsillar Abscess). Perityphlitis. — Inflammation of the peritoneum covering the csecum. See Appendix Diseases of {Ajjpendicitis, Synonyms) ; Spine Surgical Affections of {Spinal Caries, Dia gnosis). Periureteritis. — Inflammation of the tissues around the ureter. Periurethritis. — Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding the urethra See Urethra, Diseases of.PERIVAGINITIS 439 Perivag'initiS. See Paracolpitis. PerixenitiS.—Inflammation affecting the tissues in which a foreign body (Gr. |eVos, a guest or stranger) happens to be embedded. Perkinism.—A method of treatment by means of metallic " tractors," invented by Dr. E. Perkins of Norwich, Connecticut, U.S.A., who died in 1799; it was used for the cure of rheumatism; " tractoration " or " Perkinean electricity." Perkins' System. — A method of warming buildings by hot water at high pressure ; no boiler is used, the pipes themselves passing through the furnace. See Ventilation AND Warming [Heating by Hot Water). Perleche. See Stomatitis (Aphthous). PerleS. — in pharmacy, perles are small capsules or pills (Fr. perle, a bead) ; in medicine, the term Laennec's perles is given to the rounded gelatinous masses of sputum expectorated early in an attack of bronchial asthma. PerlSUCht. See Tuberculosis {Tubercle Bacillus, Historical). Perma.ng'a.nate. See Manganesium {Potassii Permanganas). Pernicious.—As a medical term perni- cious means very severe, and is almost synony- mous with fatal; e.g. pernicious anaemia, perni- cious icterus, pernicious vomiting of pregnancy, etc. See Anemia, Pernicious ; Hemoglobin- uria [Definition); Leucocytosis [Leucopenia); Malaria (Clinical Manifestations, Pernicious Attacks); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Vascular Disturbances, Hcemor7'hage, Etiology); Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications (Blood Changes, Pernicious Ancemia). Pernio. — A chilblain. See Gangrene (Varieties, Frost-Bite, Minor Degree). PerniOSiS. See Dermatitis Traumatica ET Venenata (Special Eriiptions). Pernoctation.—Insomnia ; more often used in the non-medical sense of an all-night vigil. Pe ro b rac h i a. — Arrested development of the arms. Peroceplialus. — A faceless (aproso- poas) monstrosity, especially as met with in animals (Gurlt); literally, the term simply means " defective head " (Gr. -n-rjpos, maimed). PerOCOrmuS.—A monstrosity consisting in malformation of the body (Gr. Trr^po?, maimed, KopfJio^, the trunk). Perodactyiy. —- Defective development of the fingers or toes. Peromely.—Defective development of a limb (Gr. ttt^pos, maimed, /xeAos, a limb). Peroneal or Peroneo-. — Relating to the fibula or perone ; e.g. the peroneal artery, the peroneal type of myojmthy, pero7ieo-tibial, etc. See Aneurysm (Lower Limb); Ankle-Joint Injuries (Dislocation of Peroneal Tendons); Arteries, Ligature of (Peroneal Artery); Muscles, Diseases of the (Peroneal Type of Muscular Atrophy). Peropus.—Defective development of the feet, constituting a monstrosity. PeroSOmuS.—A type of monstrosity in which the whole body (Gr. a-wfj-a, the body) is deformed (Gurlt). Peroxide of Hydrog^en. See Oxygen. Persecution-Delusions. See In- sanity, Nature and Symptoms (Monomania of Persecution); Paranoia (Progressive Systematised Lnsanity, Delusions of Persecution). Personality. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Personality and Subconscious- ness) ; Memory in Health and Disease (Peri- odic Loss of Memory in Dual Personality). Perspiration. See Children, Clinical Examination of {Integumentary System, Undue Perspiration); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands (S^idamina, Miliaria, Hyperi- drosis, etc.); Thyroid Gland, Medical (Exoph- thalmic Goitre, Perspiration). PertU rbation.—Excessive restlessness, mental or bodily, but more particularly mental (perturbationes animi). See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms. Pertussin. — A proprietary preparation recommended for the treatment of whooping- cough {pertussis), and said to consist of the fluid extract of thyme and syrup. Pertussis. See Whooping-Cough. See also Cough (Clinical Varieties). Peru, Balsam of. See Balsamum Peruvianum. Peruvian Bark. See Quinine. Perversion. — A symptom of insanity consisting in a change for the worse in the characteristics of the patient in such matters as instincts, habits, appetites, and the like. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; etc. Pervig'ilium.—Insomnia; night watch- ing. Pes AnserinuS. — The branched ar- rangement of the facial nerve in the parotidPES ANSEEINUS 440 gland after its exit from the skull by the stylo- mastoid foramen. Pes Ca,VUS. See Deformities (Club- Foot, Talipes Arcuatus); Fascia {Contraction of Plantar Fascia). Pes Hippocampi.—The anterior end of the hippocampus major of the brain. See Brain, Physiology of [Lateral Ventricle). Pes Planus. — Flat-foot. See Defor- mities [Flat-Foot). Pessaries.—Mechanical supports, especi- ally of the uterus and vaginal walls; medicated pessaries are generally vaginal suppositories. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor [Pro- lapsus Uteri, Treatment); Pregnancy, Affec- tions OF Generative Organs [Retroversion of Gravid Uterus. Treatment); Uterus, Displace- ment OF [Prolapse, Anteversion, Anteflexion, Retroversion, Retroflexion, Treatment by Pes- saries). PesSUS. — A vaginal suppository or medicated pessary. Pest a iVlagrna. See Smallpox [History). Pest is. See Plague [Synonyms). Pest is IVIinor.—The ambulant variety of plague. See Plague [Types). Petechias are small crimson or purple spots met with in the cutaneous or mucous surfaces of the body, due to the transudation of the colouring matters of the blood from the capillaries into the adjacent tissues. They must be differentiated from simple hypersemia, and also from flea-bites. Hypertemia is dis- tinguished by the colour fading on pressure, whereas in petechia it remains, though perhaps in a less degree. A flea-bite may be distin- guished by observing the central puncture due to the bite. In themselves petechise have no clinical importance, and call for little comment and less treatment. But they have significance from the standpoint of the toxaemia, which is invariably their cause. Their presence indi- cates weakened or ruptured capillaries, and this weakening or rupture is significant of the action of toxic substances in the capillary wall; and the questions that present themselves to the practitioner are—(1) What relationship, if any, do these small visible haemorrhages bear to the various symptoms from which the patient suffers 1 (2) May the symptoms of a nervous or other nature be explained by the evidence of a similar weakening of the vessels in the central nervous system or elsewhere, and resulting failure of nutrition in the special tissue involved 1 Looked at from this standpoint petechiae may furnish assistance in diagnosis, may guide to prognosis, and be helpful in treatment. The occurrence of petechise and very acute toxaemiae, e.g. typhus, will be referred to under their special headings. See Meningitis, Epi- demic Cerebro-spinal [Skin Lesions); Purpura [Symptomatic Purpura, Purpura as a Disease, etc.); Relapsing Fever [Symptoms and Course); Smallpox [Symptoms, Prodromal Rashes); Ty- phus Fever [Period of Advance, Rash). Petechial Fever. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-spinal. Peters' Ovum.—An early human ges- tation sac which opened up several new subjects of interest in connection with human embry- ology. See Embryology [First Week), Petit, Canal of.—A lymph space be- hind the suspensory ligament of the crystalline lens of the eye. Petit, Hernia of.—Lumbar hernia, or hernia in the region known as the triangle of Petit (bounded by the iliac crest, the external oblique muscle, and the latissimus dorsi). Petit Mai. See Epilepsy [Symptoms, Le Petit Mai). See also Brain, Tumours of [Symp- toms, Convulsions, Diagnosis); Larynx, Neur- oses OF [Laryngeal Vertigo, Petit Mai); Memory IN Health and Disease [Temporary Complete Loss of Memory); Sleep, Normal and Morbid [Mo7'bid Somnolence). Petrifaction of Foetus. See Ectopic Gestation [Foetus after Ruptv/re); Lithop^dion. PetriSSag^e. See Massage. Petri's Sand Filter. —A means of separating microbes from the air for examination, quantitative and qualitative. Petro-.—In compound words petro- means relating to the petrous part of the temporal bone ; e.g. petro-sqvMmous suture, petro-mastoid process, etc. Petroleum. See Paraffin. Pettenkofer's Test.—A colour test for bile acids. See Urine, Pathological Changes in [Bile Acids). Pettenkofer's Theory.— The theory that epidemic cholera is associated with the level of the soil-water or ground-water. Peyer's Glands or Patches.— Groups of follicles in the small intestine named after J. K. Peyer, a Swiss anatomist (1653- 1712). See Intestines, Diseases of [Anatomy); Intestines, Diseases of (Ulcers of tJie Intestine); Physiology, Food and Digestion [Small In- testine, Mucous Membrane); Typhoid Fever [Morbid Anatomy, Intestinal Hcemorrhage).PFEIFFER'S BACILLUS 441 Pfeiffer'S Bacillus. See Influenza (Bacteriology); Nose, Examination op {Secre- tion, Bacteriological Examination of). Pfeiffer Phenomenon. See Im- munity {Recent Views). Pfl tiger's Law. See Physiology, Tis- sues {Nerve, Factors modifying Conduction). PhacO- or PhakO-. — in compound words phaco- (Gr. ^a/cds, a lentil or lens) means relating to the lens of the eye or to a lens ; e.g. phacomalacia (soft cataract), phacometer (an instrument for measuring the refractive power of lenses), and phacosclerosis (hardening of the lens). Phacoscopy or Phakoscopy.— The estimation of changes in the lens of the eye due to accommodation. See Physiology, Neuromuscular Mechanism {Monocular, Vision, Accommodation, Phakoscope). PhaenozygOUS.—The term applied to a skull having the zygomatic arches visible when viewed from above {norma verticalis); if they are not visible it is termed cryptozygous; the derivation is from the Greek <^atV<D, I bring to light, and ^vyov, a yoke or zygoma. Phagedsena.—A rapidly spreading and corroding ulcer (Gr. <payelv, to devour); spread- ing sore. See Skin Diseases op the Tropics (Tropical Phagedcena or Donda Ndugu). Phagocytes.—Cells of the body, fixed or free, having the power of ingesting and destroying micro - organisms or other foreign bodies; they are usually leucocytes. See Im- munity (Causes of Natural Resistance to Bac- teria) ; Immunity (Recent Views, Phagocytosis) ; Leucocytosis ; Malaria (Blood); Physiology, Nutrition (Blood and Lymph, Leucocytes). Phagocytosis. See Phagocytes ; Im- munity ; ETC. PhagOlysiS.—Destruction of phagocytic leucocytes or of other phagocytic cells. PhagOmania. — An insane desire or craving for food which may lead the victim of it to commit theft. Phalanges.—The separate bones which form the segments of the digits, each being termed a phalanx; also, certain processes in the organ of Corti in the internal ear. See Fractures (Phalanges). Phallus.—The penis (Gr. ^aXAos, penis) ; thus phallalgia means pain in the penis, and diphallus is the term given to the teratological state in which there are two penises. Phantasm or Phantasma.—An illusion or hallucination, especially, perhaps, in reference to an apparition. PhantasmoSCOpia.—The seeing of spectres or ghosts. Phantom.—A model of the body or of a part of it (e.g. the pelvis) used in the teaching of surgery, midwifery, etc.; also, a model of the foetus. Phantom Tumour. — Spurious or imaginary pregnancy, or the appearance of an abdominal tumour which further investigation (especially by percussion and palpation under anaesthesia) shows to be non-existent. See Ab- dominal Tumours, Diagnosis of (Tumours of the Parietes); Ovaries, Diseases of the (Ovarian Tumour, Diagnosis of); Pregnancy, Diagnosis OP (Differential, Spurious Pregnancy); Pseudo- CYESis ; Tumours (Phantom Tumours). Pharbitis Nil. See Kaladana. Pharmaceutic or Pharma- ceutical.— Belonging to pharmacy, or the art of preparing and dispensing drugs. See Pharmacy ; Prescribing. PharmaCO". — in compound words pharmaco- (Gr. (fidpi^aKov, a poison or drug) means relating to drugs or medicines. Pharmacodynamics.—The science of the effects or action of drugs. Pharmacognosy.—The knowledge of drugs, especially in their crude state, and their recognition by their physical characters. Pharmacology. Action of Drugs ..... 442 Pharmacological Action and Chemical Composition ..... 442 The Theory of Ions .... 443 Classification— I. Inorganic Substances . . . 443 (1) Salt Action .... 443 (2) Saline Purgatives . . . 444 (3) Saline Diuretics . . . 4:4c4: (4) Sodium, Potassium, Ammo- nium ..... 444 (5) Alkaline Hydrates and Car- bonates .... 444 (6) Chlorates, Oxalates, Sulphites, Hypophosphites . . . 445 (7) Halogens and their Compounds 445 (8) Acids 446 (9) Calcium and Barium . . 446 (10) Oxygen and Oxidising Agents 447 (11) Sulphur . . . .447 (12) Arsenic and Phosphorus . 447 (13) Heavy Metals . . .447 (13*) Metallic Ferments . . 449PHARMACOLOGY 442 II. Organic Substances . . . 449 A. —Drugs the Action of which is mainly Local— (1) Vegetable Bitters and Astrin- gents ..... 449 (2) Vegetable Purgatives . . 449 (3) \^Anthelniintics^ . . . 450 B. —Drugs the Action of which is mainly General, and due to Ab- sorption— (1) Volatile Oils . . .450 (2) Methane Series . . .451* (3) Antipyretics of the Aromatic Series . . . .451 (4) Strychnine . . . .452 (5) Opium Sei'ies . . .452 (6) Hydrastine .... 453 (7) Cannabis Indica . . . 453 (8) Hydrocyanic Acid . . 453 (9) Caffeine . . . .453 (10) Curara . . . .454 (11) Conline, Gelseminine, Spar- teine, Lobeline . . . 454 (12) Nicotine .... 454 (13) Atropine Series . . . 454 (14) Cocaine .... 455 (15) Pilocaipine .... 456 (16) Physostigmine . . .456 (17) Aconitine .... 456 (18) Veratrine .... 456 (19) Emetine .... 456 (20) Colchicine . . . .457 (21) Saponins and Sapotoxins . 457 (22) Quini?ie . . . .457 (23) Digitalis and Allied Drugs . 457 (24) Adrenalin .... 459 (25) Ergot 459 (26) mtrites . . . .459 (27) Thyroid . . . .459 (28) Formic Acid and Formates . 460 See also iinder the names of the various drugs —e.g. Aloes and Aloin ; Mercury ; Opium ; ETC.; also under Alkaloids ; Anesthetics ; Antiperiodics ; Antipyretics ; Antispasmodics ; Astringents ; Carminatives ; etc., etc. The science of pharmacology comprehends the effects produced on the healthy animal or- ganisation by drugs, as opposed to the action of the same drugs in disease—a field of study known as therapeutics. Toxicology is in part a branch of pharmacology ; but not all poisons are employed as drugs, hence the study of poisons to some degree extends beyond the bounds of pharmacology. Action of Drugs.—This depends either on their physical or chemical characters. Some drugs, such as bismuth or charcoal, act purely mechanically; others, such as the saline aperients, depend for their effect on osmosis. Yet a third instance of drugs acting physically is seen in the great hypnotic group of which chloral and sulphonal are members. This group contains bodies chemically quite distinct from each other—alcohols, aldehydes, esters, ketones, etc.—all of which, nevertheless, possess in common the property of depressing the central nervous system. Meyer's theory of their narcotic action is that it depends on their solubility in the lipoid matter of the brain. When such bodies are dissolved in a mixture of oil and water the distribution of the drug between the two solvents depends on the relative solubility in each, and it is possible to arrange the drugs in a series ac- cording to the coefficient of this distribution. It is found that those which, like sulphonal and tetronal, have a high coefficient of distribu- tion for fat, are most narcotic; and those, such as urethane and alcohol, with a low one, least so. The reason, of course, is that in the body they distribute themselves among the fat-like and non-fat-like constituents of the tissues according to their affinity for each. This fact also explains the action of most of the sub- stances belonging to this series on the red blood corpuscles, which also contain fatty bodies. They are, it will be remembered, blood poisons, hsemolysis being produced by large doses. Meyer sums up his theory of the laarcotic action of these di'ugs thus: " The narcotising substance enters into a loose physico-chemical combination with the vitally important lipoids of the cell, perhaps with the lecithin, and in so doing changes their normal relationship to the other cell constituents, through which an inhibition of the entire cell chemism results. It also becomes evident that the narcosis immediately disappears as soon as the loose, reversible combination, dependent on the solu- tion tension, breaks up. It follows further, that substances chemically absolutely indifferent, as the volatile saturated hydrocarbons, can act as narcotics." Pharmacological Action and Chemical Con- stitution.— In the case of drugs acting by chemical affinity the modus operandi is some- times apparent—take, for instance, concentrated mineral acids, tannic acid, and metallic astrin- gents. But we are quite ignorant of the nature of the action of such drugs as produce a specific effect on certain cells, as occurs with most of the active drugs employed in medicine. Although it must be supposed that some connection exists between chemical constitution and physiological action, we are as yet very far from being able to generalise on the relation- ship. In what follows, particularly in the section dealing with inorganic drugs, certain likenesses between the actions of similar sub- stances—e.g. the heavy metals — will appear, while the coal-tar derivatives have also many points in common. The first important advance in this direction was made by Fraser and Crum Brown in the discovery that, by introducing the methyl group into the molecule of certain443 PHARMACOLOGY alkaloids—strychnine, brucine, and thebaine,— the convulsant action of these bodies was changed into a paralysing one. The methyl group apparently, when added to an alkaloid molecule, confers this paralysing property, for we find it in methyl-atropine, methyl-morphine, methyl-veratrine, and other alkaloids which are not convulsants. Now many natural alkaloids are derivatives of ammonia, which itself is a stimulant to the spinal cord and tends to paralyse motor nerve endings. By substituting an alkyl gi'oup—e.g. ethyl—for one or more of the hydrogen atoms of ammonia, the convulsant action is diminished and the paralysing action increased, just as in the case of methyl strych- nine. In fact, "practically all the ammonium bases, that is, organic bases in which the pentavalent nitrogen is connected by four valencies to carbon, exercise the same pharma- cologic action, regardless of other differences in their constitution and nature; the action in this case being the same as that of curara, a paralysis of motor nerves" {Meyer'). Meyer suggests that the strongly basic character of these bodies may be the factor determining this relationship. The great complexity of the question may be understood when it is remembered that however accurately we may know the composi- tion of a drug, minute changes in the living cell, which we have no means of gauging, may entirely alter its reaction towards a chemical compound. Again, alterations in the constitu- tion of a drug also alter its physical properties, and with this its power of permeating the living- cell. Moreover, the activity of drugs depends largely on the extent to which they dissociate into ions in solutions, while alterations in solubility may on the one hand enhance a toxic action, or, on the other, by facilitating elimination, diminish it. It may be said that the tendency is to lay considerable stress on the physical properties and changes which accompany chemical constitution and altera- tions thereof, in interpreting physiological action. The Theory of Ions. — It is necessary to mention this, because it is now held that not the molecule of a salt in solution as a whole, but the ions into which it is dissociated, produce its effect. Certain salts, acids, and bases when dissolved in water form electrolytes and are split up into positive ions and negative ions. Thus the electrically neutral NaCl molecule is dissociated into Na ions (Rations) positively charged with electricity, and CI ions (Anions) negatively charged with electricity. Substances like sugar and urea, which do not ionise in solution, do not conduct electricity. The ions in solution exert the same osmotic pressure as molecules, and when they are comparatively inactive in other respects pharmacological results depending solely on osmosis may occur. When the action of the ions is potent, how- ever, the effects of osmosis may be neglected. Hydroxides of the alkalis act as corrosives by reason of the OH ion, the K or Na ion being inert, but alcohol is not corrosive because the OH is not dissociable into an ion. Again, cacodylic acid is not poisonous because it is not dissoci- able, and therefore none of the effects of the As ion are produced. The question of ionisation will be again referred to under Salt Action. Various classifications of drugs have been proposed; we are not yet in a position to construct a truly scientific one. In the present article the classification followed is that of Schmiedeberg and Cushny, and is based on the principle of general similarity of pharmacological action, irrespective, for the most part, of sovirce and chemical constitution. I. Inorganic Substances In the case of Salts, which form so important a part of the inorganic substances used in medicine, we have to distinguish between the action of the base and that of the acid. Thus we cannot group all the salts of potassium in one series, for in some—e.g. potassium chloride —the potassium is the active agent, while in others, such as the bromide, the negative ion is the determining factor. Many of the inorganic drugs are active poisons, and their pharmacological effects are to a large extent described in the article on " Toxicology," to which the reader is referred. We shall first deal with the action of certain salts. (1) Salt action in general differs from most of those to be described later, in being the result, not of any chemical or physiological reaction between certain cell groups and a par- ticular drug (such as may be supposed to take place between atropine and the terminations of secretory nerves), but of physical changes produced by the salt in the body fluids, and comparable to those which in the laboratory are comprehended under the term osmosis. This general statement, however, needs some qualification. In dilute solutions, such as exist in the tissues, salts do not remain as such, but are to a large extent dissociated into ions. Thus sodium chloride is dissociated into a positive Na ion (Ration), and a negative CI ion (Anion). This dissociation is important, both from the physical and pharmacological point of view, because in the first place the osmotic pressure of a fluid depends on the number of ions, not molecules, it contains, and in the second place the pharmacological action of the drug is determined by the ions, not the mole- cule as a whole. From this it follows that the pharmacological effect of a drug depends on the more potent ion : thus in the case of potassium cyanide the cyanogen ion is so highly toxic that the potassium ion may be disregarded, while inPHARMACOLOGY 444 the case of mercuric chloride the action of the chlorine ion is comparatively trifling. The simplest example of salt action is afforded by sodium chloride, which, being al- ready largely represented in the tissues, has practically no specific action, and accordingly all its effects are explicable on physical grounds alone. In dilute (hypotonic) solutions it tends to penetrate mucous membranes, while in con- centration (hypertonic solutions) it withdraws fluid from them and causes irritation. The rate of absorption from the stomach and bowel depends on the strength of the solution; a hypotonic solution is rapidly taken up by the tissues, while when it is hypertonic there is a period during which it receives water from the blood, until it becomes isotonic. Accompanying this inflow or outflow of fluid the blood and lymph become diluted or concentrated as the case may be. The result of the ultimate ab- sorption of the salt is to increase the activity of the kidneys, which excrete the excess of sodium chloride. If, however, the sodium be given in very large amount, or if the kidneys be in- competent, it may be retained in the body and give rise to oedema. Sodium chloride, from leading to an increased flow of lymph through the tissues, is a stimulant to tissue change. (2) Saline Purgatives.—The essential feature of these is that even in dilute solutions they are absorbed from the bowel with some diffi- culty, i.e. their ions do not readily penetrate the epithelium. The chief saline purges are sulphate and phosphate of soda, sulphate of magnesia, bitartrate of potassium and sodium, and the citrates of potash and magnesia. The peculiar effect is largely due to the anion, since not all potassium or sodium salts possess an aperient action; but in the case of magnesium salts the kation is also efficient, for magnesium chloride and carbonate are mild relaxatives, while tlie corresponding sodium salts are not. The most active aperients of this group, there- fore, are those—e.g. Epsom salts—to both ions of which the intestinal wall is comparatively impermeable. From what has been said, the action of salines will readily be understood. Though the details of the process are unsettled, speaking broadly, what happens is that in dilute solutions they pass down the bowel without being absorbed, while in hypertonic solutions they also excite a flow of water into the bowel. In either case the intestinal contents remain unusually liquid, and are readily discharged. Salines do not act by causing irritation of the intestinal walls as vegetable aperients do. If for any reason, such as too great dilution, or dehydration of the tissues, a saline is not evacu- ated, it is gradually absorbed into the blood, and then excreted by the kidney, causing diuresis. (3) Saline Diuretics.—Certain drugs are used chiefly on account of their diuretic action, and though this has been incidentally referred to above, it requires a further word of explanation. The chief salts so employed are the acetates of potash, sodium, and ammonium, the nitrates of sodium and potassium, and the alkaline citrates. Nitrates, besides causing diuresis partly through their salt action (c/. sodium chloride), and partly from a directly stimulant action on the kidney, produce, when given in large doses, gastro-intestinal irritation, dysenteric motions, suppression of urine, and coma. Citrates, diuretics through their salt action only, are excreted as carbonates, and thus render the urine less acid. Sodium citrate precipitates the calcium salts in the blood, and in this way diminishes its coagulability. This action has been made use of where it is desired to prevent or lessen thrombosis. Other soluble citrates have a similar action. Acetates have the same diuretic action. Both these salts have this advantage over carbonates, that being neutral until after absorption they do not disturb gas- tric digestion. The acetates are also credited with diaphoretic properties. (4) Sodium, Potassium, and Ammonium.— Before discussing other and more active salts it will be convenient to refer to the properties of these bases. For practical purposes, we may regard the sodium ion of the salts used in medicine as inert. The action of potassium is on the whole depressant, producing slowing and weakening of the heart and a fall in blood pres- sure. In animals, the nervous system is also depressed and the muscles are paralysed. Am- monium, again, is more active than potassium. It increases the reflex excitability of the spinal cord, and produces convulsions ; there is also a paralysing action on the terminations of the motor nerves. The vaso-motor centre is stimu- lated, and the heart accelerated. Owing to the rapidity with which excretion takes place these effects occur only when potassium or ammonium salts are injected into the blood. When ad- ministered by the mouth no specific potassium action is seen, and but little of the special effects of ammonium. Salts of ammonium are more rapidly absorbed than the corresponding sodium and potassium ones. They are excreted as urea, and hence do not render the urine alkaline. (5) Alkaline Hydrates and Carbonates.—1. Potassium and Sodium.—Bearing in mind that potash salts are on the whole more active than those of soda, the actions of these may be dis- cussed together. In strong solutions they have a penetrating solvent action on the tissues, con- verting them into alkali-proteid. The hydrates are, of course, much more powerful than the carbonates, and act as escharotics. It was formerly stated that small doses given early in digestion increased the free acid in the stomach, but this is now considered incorrect; their only action is partly or completely to neutralise the445 PHARMACOLOGY acidity of the gastric contents. By this diminu- tion of the acidity of the chyme the normal stimulus to the pancreatic secretion is lessened. After absorption the normal alkalinity of the tissues is increased, and the acidity of the urine diminished. The effects on metabolism and uric acid excretion are disputed, but the out- put of urea is increased and that of ammonia diminished. Lithium is more active than either sodium or potassium. The urate of lithia is about four times as soluble as sodium urate, hence lithium carbonate is said to be antago- nistic to the deposit of urates in the tissues. 2. Ammonium.—Watery solutions of ammonia are, like the preceding, irritants to the skin and mucous membrane ; their results are, however, less persistent, being vesication rather than corrosion. They act as gastric irritants, and as stimulants to the nervous system and the cir- culation, the last effect being probably reflex from the action on the stomach. 3. Magnesium.—The oxide and carbonate are very insoluble; they act as antacids and as mild saline aperients. (6) Chlorates, Sulphites, Oxalates, Hypophos- phites.—Chlorates.—The principal of these is the potash salt. In large doses they are toxic, their action being that of a blood poison. They convert hsemoglobin into methaemoglobin, which is unable to supply oxygen to the tissues, hence asphyxia results. Ultimately the corpuscles are broken up, and the debris and pigment passing into the plasma are excreted in the urine or deposited in the viscera. The symptoms of poisoning may be inferred from the action of the salt: there is diarrhoea and vomiting, cya- nosis and dyspnoea, heart failure and prostra- tion ; the urine may be suppressed or scanty, containing detritus of corpuscles, and giving the spectra of methaemoglobin and hsematin. These poisonous symptoms have chiefly been met with in the young, and idiosyncrasy seems not un- common. Thus a drachm has proved fatal to a child, while 2| ounces have been taken by an adult without causing discomfort. Chlorate of potash is mildly antiseptic ; it does not, as was thought, give up oxygen to the blood. Sulphites are weak antiseptics. They liberate sulphur dioxide in the stomach, and in large doses are poisonous. Oxalates are general protoplasmic poisons, and are very irritating to the gastro-intestinal tract. They are highly poisonous. Owing to their power of precipitating calcium salts, they prevent the coagulation of the blood, as well as of milk by the rennet ferment. Hypophosphites have merely a salt action. (7) Halogens and their Compounds.—1. Bro- mides.—As the potassium salt is the most widely used, its action has received more attention than that of the other bromides. It depresses cortical excitability, local stimuli producing little or no effect on the brains of animals under its influence. Its sedative action extends to the mental processes, which become sluggish, and are expressed in slow, hesitating speech. Eventually drowsiness and sleep result. Reflex excitability—e.g. that of the throat and con- junctiva—is also diminished, and after very large doses there is some cutaneous aneesthesia. The anaphrodisiac eff'ect of bromide is due to a similar blunting of sensibility and loss of reflex excitability in the sphere of the genito-urinary tract. The pulse becomes weak and slow—a potash action. Bromides are rapidly absorbed, and tend to accumulate in the body; but after a given amount has been taken the tissues become saturated, and as much as is ingested is excreted. The salt is eliminated by the milk and sweat, but chiefly by the urine, in which it can be detected for a considerable period after the administration has been suspended. From its cumulative action chronic poisoning is liable to occur. The symptoms of Bromism are pus- tular and erythematous rashes, gastric disturb- ance, foetid breath, slight coryza, inco-ordination, dulness, and loss of memory. Bromine itself is highly irritating and is little used in therapeutics. 2. Iodine and Iodides. — Iodine is a local irritant to the skin, and by its vapour to the respiratory passages. If a sufficient quantity be absorbed lodism results ; the symptoms differ from those to be described in the next paragraph in that rapidity of the pulse, nervousness, and emaciation are more marked, which point to the drug's action on the thyroid being the cause of the symptoms which it brings about. Iodide of Potash.—Except that it produces the symptoms of iodism, the pharmacology of the drug is little understood. lodism may follow small doses in susceptible persons; its most prominent symptoms are connected with the mouth and respiratory tract—catarrh (ex- tending sometimes to the conjunctivae, frontal sinuses, and bronchi), salivation, and pharyngitis. Next in frequency come skin eruptions, chiefly of the bullous or crusted type. Neuralgia, and tremor or paralysis may occur. The drug tends to produce wasting of certain glands, par- ticularly the breast and testicle. Iodides are rapidly absorbed, and rapidly excreted by many channels—urine, saliva, milk, and respiratory mucosa. In all probability iodine is, to some extent at least, set free in the tissues. The amount of iodothyrin in the thyroid is increased by iodides, and some of the symptoms of iodism may be due to thyroid over-activity. Iodoform is chiefly employed locally on account of its reputed antiseptic action; it seems, however, that this has been greatly over-estimated. Possibly its value may be due to the liberation of free iodine. It is a feeble local anaesthetic, and may be absorbed from wounds and cause poisoning. The first sign of this is the odour of the drug in the breath,446 PHAEMACOLOGY along with sleeplessness. A low delirium follows, with hallucinations. Sometimes there is stupor and collapse, without preliminary mania. The pulse may be quickened and the temperature raised. After death, fatty degeneration of the viscera is found. Chlorine, like bromine, is a powerful irritant. It is used in solution as a disinfectant and deodoriser, and as a mouth-wash or gargle. (8) Acids.—Under this head are dealt with those acids which owe their activity mainly to the hydrogen ion ; others, such as salicylic acid, whose action depends mainly on the negative ion, are discussed elsewhere. In concentration the more powerful acids act as caustics, and by reason of this are violent poisons. Living cells are for the most part incapable of surviving in acid fluids, hence these bodies are protoplasmic poisons. They are, therefore, antiseptics of no slight power, hydrochloric acid in "2 per cent solutions delaying the growth of organisms. Moulds, however, are much more resistant to the action of acids than are other low forms of life. Acids also have the power of precipitating proteids, hence are astringents. They are absorbed fairly rapidly from the stomach, but are quickly neutralised in the body—in man, chiefly by ammonia set free by the tissues. The ammonia is formed at the expense of the urea synthesis in order to protect the tissues from the withdrawal of fixed alkali. The urinary ammonia is therefore increased, the urea dimin- ished. The amount of urinary ammonia, there- fore, is an index to the degree of acidosis. When excess of acid is absorbed, the oxidation processes of the body are lowered, and the oxygen intake and carbonic acid output diminished, and fatal acid intoxication develops, which, however, may be rapidly relieved by the free administra- tion of alkalis. After their neutralisation in the body acids are eliminated in the urine, chiefly as acid salts; hence they increase the acidity of the urine, and may cause some irritation. Dilute acids reflexly stimulate the flow of saliva, both parotid and submaxillary; they do not aff'ect the secretion of gastric juice, but when they reach the duodenum they excite the pancreatic secretion. Of the mineral acids, the actions of Sulphuric, Hydrochloric, Nitric, and Phosphoric acids have been sufficiently covered by what has been said. Sulphurous acid is a powerful reducing agent, and therefoi'e doubly poisonous to protoplasm. It is accordingly a stronger antiseptic than its congeners, and in this sphere finds its chief use. If inhaled, it acts as an irritant. Organic Acids. —Acetic acid resembles the mineral acids, but is less corrosive. Tartaric and Citric acids have a mild action ; their salts have already been referred to. Boracic acid is a feeble acid ; its action closely resembles that of its sodium salt. Borax. It is chiefly employed as a mild antiseptic, and in moderate doses has little effect on the bodily functions. In large quantities it is poisonous {vide " Toxicology "), and dangerous symptoms may be caused by its absorption from dressings. Prolonged local use, too, causes a scaly der- matitis. Boric acid is eliminated by the urine, and to a less extent by the bowel; it does not affect intestinal putrefaction, but is to some degree a urinary antiseptic. Carbonic Acid —Apart from its action as a poisonous gas, the only pharmacological eff'ect of importance which carbonic acid produces is a slight degree of local irritation. Thus in the form of an effervescent liquid it stimulates primary digestion, and as fluid containing it is rapidly absorbed, all the aerated waters are diuretic. After prolonged application to a mucous membrane some blunting of the sensi- bility takes place, hence it acts as a gastric sedative. Its stimulating local effect on the skin is taken advantage of in baths, especially in the Nauheim treatment of cardiac disease. (9) Calcium and Barium.—Calcium is essen- tial to the animal economy, particularly to the growth of bones. Its presence is requisite for the coagulation of the blood, and for the coagulation of milk by the rennet ferment. Solutions of lime salts have a stimulating effect on cardiac and skeletal muscle, and restore the contractility of frog's heart and nerve-muscle preparations after they have ceased to respond to electrical stimulation. Owing to the insolu- bility of many lime salts, and the ease with which they are thrown out of solution on coming in contact with the alkaline body juices, as well as the fact that even in solution they are absorbed from the intestine with difficulty, their thera- peutic value is restricted. There is reason, however, to believe that the coagulability of the blood can be increased by giving calcium chloride or lactate, and that a tonic effect is exerted on the heart. Sir A. E. Wright has shown that up to a certain point the administra- tion of calcium chloride shortens the coagulation time of the blood as measured by his coagulo- meter, and that there is a corresponding increase in the calcium salts in the blood. Excess of calcium, however, has the property of delaying coagulation. Calcium salts are excreted largely by the intestine, and cause constipation. Calcium carbonate diminishes the acidity of the urine by combining with, and preventing the absorp- tion of, phosphoric acid from the intestine. Less phosphates appear in the urine, and acidity is diminished, without, however, an alkaline re- action being produced. Barium is an active poison. It has the power of throwing into tonic contraction all muscle with which it comes into contact. It thus causes colic, vomiting, and diarrhoea, constric- tion of the blood-vessels, and rise in blood pressure. The cardiac systole becomes morePHARMACOLOGY 447 complete, but there is no corresponding increase in relaxation, as in the case of digitalis. Death is preceded by violent tonic and clonic convulsions. (10) Oxygen and Oxidising Agents.—Normally the corpuscles carry to the tissues more oxygen than is actually required, and as the respiration of air containing an excess of oxygen only leads to a slight increase in that transported by the blood, the inhalation of the gas at normal pressure has no effect on the healthy animal. That it is beneficial in the cyanosis of heart and lung disease is clinically certain ; the good effect is probably due to the increased amount dissolved in the plasma, and to the more rapid diffusion of pure oxygen through the lungs compensating to some extent for inadequate respiratory movements. Peroxide of hydrogen, generally employed in watery solution, is rapidly reduced by cata- lase, an enzyme universally present in living tissues, nascent oxygen being evolved. It is a powerful antiseptic, and in strong solution an escharotic. When a large cavity, such as the pleura, is irrigated with it the oxygen set free may cause fatal embolus. Permanganate of potassium is reduced by organic matter, the oxygen combining with albumin. It is thus a protoplasmic poison, and in consequence is antiseptic. Charcoal accumu- lates quantities of oxygen in its pores, and oxidises and deodorises decomposing animal matter with which it is brought in contact. (11) Sulphur is a very inert substance, and when swallowed is largely excreted unaltered by the bowel. Part, however, is converted into sulphides, to which any pharmacological action is due. In man, sulphides act as mild cathartics; in animals they produce nervous symptoms when introduced intravenously. They reduce oxy-haemoglobin, producing sulpho-methsemo- globin, are oxidised in the tissues, and are ex- creted in the urine as sulphates, etc. When dilute sulphuretted hydrogen is inhaled it produces irritation of the eyes, mouth, and respiratory passages; in concentration it causes imconsciousness and death, sometimes with con- vulsions. The sulphides of lime and barium have the property of removing hairs and the superficial layers of the skin, and hence are employed as depilatories. (12) Arsenic and Phosphorus.—For the main actions of these bodies, as comprehended under the symptoms of acute and chronic poisoning, see " Toxicology." The toxicity of arsenic is typically shown by the negative ion (AsO,) of arsenious acid, the metal being itself inactive. Preparations of arsenic which are not dissociable are relatively inert; the best example of this is the cacodyl group, by which large quantities of arsenic can be introduced into the body without producing toxic effects. According to Fraser, these drugs are inert. Apart from the symptoms of poisoning {q.v.), arsenic influences nutrition and blood formation. Action on Metabolism..—The growth of young animals is stimulated, and their nutrition im- proved, by small doses of arsenic. In larger doses there is increased breakdown of proteids, with equivalent urinary excretion of nitrogen, sulphates, and phosphates. The glycogen of the tissues is diminished, and fatty changes occur throughout the body. In health, arsenic does not increase the number of red corpuscles; but in young animals the hjemopoietic function is stimulated. After prolonged administration the bones become denser than normal. Phosphorus.—-Yellow phosphorus, owing to its greater solubility, is much more poisonous than the red allotropic form, which is scarcely absorbed from the alimentary canal. If injected subcutaneously, however, the two are equally toxic. The action on metabolism is not unlike that of arsenic, and consists in deficient oxida- tion, cloudy swelling and fatty degeneration of cells, increased proteid breakdown, and increased metabolism of carbohydrate with diminution of glycogen in the tissues. The metabolism of fat is diminished ; the alkalinity of the blood falls. The explanation of the fatty changes in the viscera resulting from phosphorus poisoning is not clear; the latest researches, however, point strongly to its being due to a transference of fat from one part of the body to another, than to its being caused by cellular degeneration. The chief arguments for this view are (a) that fatty liver does not occur in starved animals, or in very lean subjects poisoned with phosphorus; {b) that the blood contains excess of fat; (c) that if an animal poisoned with phosphorus be fed on a foreign fat, the same fat is deposited in the liver. In small repeated doses phos- phorus stimulates connective tissue to proliferate, and growing bones to become denser. That the latter is a specific action is probable from the occurrence of phosphorus necrosis in chronic poisoning. In animals, the substance has a directly depressant action on the heart; this is not seen in man. In small doses the red cells are increased. Neither bacteria, yeast, nor unorganised ferments are influenced by the presence of phosphorus. (13) Heavy Metals. — The pharmacological actions, general and local, of the heavy metals may conveniently be discussed as a whole. Local Action. -— Salts of heavy metals are astringent and corrosive, but one or other effect comes into prominence according to circum- stances. The astringent action depends on the precipitation of proteids with the formation of metallic albuminates, which are insoluble in water but soluble in saline solutions or excess of proteid. With the formation of the albuminate the original acid of the salt is liberated, and it too acts locally. When a salt is applied to the tissues the intensity of the local reaction dependsPHARMACOLOGY 448 on the readiness with which the ions are dis- sociated, and thus the inorganic salts, such as the chlorides or nitrates, which are easily dis- sociable, enter much more rapidly into combina- tion as albuminates than do the organic salts, such as the acetates. A dilute solution of lead acetate, when applied to a mucous membrane, produces a thin layer of lead albuminate, which protects the tissues from the action of the weak acetic acid set free. If, however, a strong solu- tion of mercuric nitrate be used, the astringent action is negligible, because the albuminate of mercury, soluble in excess of proteid, does not hinder the further penetration of the salt, while the nitric acid set free is a powerful corrosive. In the case of mercuric salts, their extremely toxic properties towards protoplasm must also be taken into account. Of ordinary metallic preparations, the most corrosive are the per- chloride and nitrate of mercury, and the chlorides of zinc, tin, copper, and antimony; the most astringent are alum and lead acetate; while chloride of iron, sulphate of zinc, iron, and copper, and nitrate of silver stand midway in producing when dilute an astringent action, when strong, irritation and corrosion. General Action.—Metals, except mercury, are slowly absorbed. The trend of modern opinion is that by far the greater part of most metals —e.g. iron—is excreted unchanged thi'ough the alimentary tract, while only a small portion is absorbed into the blood. After being taken up they are stored in the viscera, and are eliminated very gradually, chiefly by the bowel. The symptoms of metallic poisoning, as studied both in man and by the intravenous injection of albuminates in animals, show themselves in (1) gastro-intestinal irritation ; (2) irritation of the kidneys, producing diuresis or even hsematuria; (3) wide-spread affection of the nervous system, comprising delirium or mania, convulsions, para- lyses, and peripheral neuritis; (4) fall in blood pressure, secondary to the above. This general statement of the pharmacology of the heavy metals explains some of their therapeutic uses. The majority are employed chiefly on account of their local action ; only a few are used to produce effects after absorption, and of the nature of the action of two of the most important of these—iron and mercury— we are still largely ignorant. The symptoms of poisoning by these bodies has been indicated in outline ; it is partly a local, partly a general action, and for details of the action of individual metals, the section on " Toxicology" must be referred to. Antimony has to a great extent fallen into disuse. Tartar emetic, its chief preparation, causes perspiration and emesis, with secondary fall in the blood pressure and low temperature. It is a powerful local irritant, producing a pustular eruption. Mercury, as has been said, is absorbed rapidly as compared to the other metals. This is largely due to the solubility of the albuminate, and if the dose be sufficient or repeated fre- quently, acute or chronic mercurial poisoning {q.v.) results. It is highly destructive to lower forms of life, and solutions of perchloride of mercury so weak as 1-50,000 kill infusoria, hence its value as an antiseptic. In small doses mercurials act as cathartics, without affecting the flow of bile. Calomel and other preparations of mercury are also diuretics, particularly when dropsical effusions are present. The use of mercury in the treatment of syphilis is entirely empirical. It is uncertain whether the metal has any action on the blood cells. Locally, mercury is largely employed as an anti- septic, especially as an ointment in cutaneous affections. Copper and Zinc.—The only known pharma- cological actions of these metals which are made use of in treatment are those of astringency and irritation. They are also used as emetics. Silver depends chiefly on its caustic effects for its retention in the Pharmacopoeia. Iron is necessary for the life of most forms of protoplasm. It exists in the body in organic and inorganic combination. In the former the metal is so firmly united to organic substances that it cannot be detected by the ordinary tests until the combination is broken up by some such agent as heat or a concentrated mineral acid. Inorganic iron includes the albuminates as well as the inorganic salts proper. Ferric salts are local astringents and styptics, but ferrous salts form soluble compounds with albumin which are not irritating. The metal is not destructive to the cells as mercury is, so that any corrosive effect is due to the acid set free in the formation of the albuminate. In ordinary doses prolonged over a considerable period constipation and indigestion are pro- duced ; the teeth are apt to become blackened. The dyspepsia is said to be due to the hyper- secretion of hydrochloric acid. Until the last decade it was assumed, on the ground of clinical experience, that iron taken by the mouth was absorbed into the body and reconstituted the haemoglobin which was deficient. This has latterly been the subject of much discussion, and the facts are not yet clear; but it may be said that, notwithstanding the temporary prevalence of the view that inorganic iron was not absorbed, recent work shows that it is taken up by the upper 10 or 20 inches of the small intestine to a small but sufficient degree, and thus its clinical value in chlorosis is confirmed by the last words of pharmacology. Bismuth owes its repute almost entirely to its local action as a protective and slightly astringent powder. Its inertness, however, is due to the fact that it is not absorbed, and the intravenous injection of soluble preparations into animals produces toxic nervous symptoms.449 PHARMACOLOGY In man, poisonous symptoms have followed the application of bismuth to raw surfaces. These chiefly affect the mouth, and consist in saliva- tion, stomatitis, and even gangrene. The fojtor of the breath which may be observed after taking ordinary doses of bismuth is due to tellurium, an impurity often present. Since the expedient has been resorted to of giving large doses of bismuth subnitrate for the purpose of obtaining skiagrams of the viscera, one or two cases of fatal poisoning have been reported. All the patients have been infants, and the toxic effects have been due to the nitrate, not to the metallic ion. On post- mortem, methgemoglobinsemia has been found, and nitrites have been detected in the blood and tissue juices. The toxic action is probably due to the conversion of part of the nitrate into nitrite through the agency of the intestinal bacteria. Alum, the double sulphate of potassium and aluminium, acts purely as an astringent, and in large doses as an emetic. (13*) Metallic Ferments.—When an electric current is passed through pure water between metallic electrodes, minute quantities of the metals composing the electrodes are dissolved. The solutions conform to the tests for colloidal solutions. The metals exist in them in a state of minute subdivision, and the particles possess a vibrating movement. Such solutions are said to possess catalytic properties, hence they have been called " Metallic Ferments." Their action depends on their physical constitution, not on any special property of the metal used ;—gold, silver, platinum, etc. may be employed. Robin has tested the therapeutic possibilities of these colloidal metallic solutions, and asserts that they profoundly influence metabolism when in- jected subcutaneously. They are said to (1) reduce the temperature; (2) raise the arterial tension ; (3) increase the output of urea, uric acid, and urinary indoxyl; (4) cause leucocytosis; (5) decrease the consumption of oxygen without diminishing the carbonic acid exhaled ; and (6) increase the coefficient of nitrogenous utilisation. Robin believes that the solutions act in virtue of the extreme subdivision and separation of the metallic particles ; he compares the effects to the radiant properties of gases in a vacuum tube, in which a similar wide separation of atoms prevails. Metallic ferments have been used in pneu- monia, etc. : it is said, with benefit. Further investigation of the whole subject is required before any definite conclusion can be arrived at. II. Organic Substances A.—Drugs the Action of which is mainly Local (1) Vegetable Bitters and Astringents. — The chief bitters are Gentian, Quassia, Calumba, Chiretta, and Taraxacum. The usefulness of VOL. VII these is probably due to their bitter taste reflexly stimulating gastric secretion in the manner that Pawlow has shown the odour and taste of food to act. Experimental observations on the action of bitters have to a great extent proved nega- tive or contradictory. Certain nervous symp- toms are produced in animals by large doses, but these are never seen in man. Certain bitters cause a slight leucocytosis. In addition to their special activities, quinine and strychnine act as simple bitters. Astringents owe their properties to tannin bodies, tannic acid being readily convertible into gallic acid. Tiieir action is due to their power of precipitating albumin When applied to mucous membranes they cause a sensation of constriction from coagulation of the superficial layers of the epithelium ; in the stomach they interfere with proteid digestion, and may cause vomiting from gastric irritation. In the intestine they tend to cause constipation, the layer of co- agulated epithelium lessening the irritability of the wall of the bowel. In weak solutions tannic acid causes local vaso-constriction and coagulates the blood. Most of the tannic acid swallowed is converted in the intestine into gallic acid, and after absorption the two are found in the tissues only as tannates and gallates, which are almost devoid of astringency. It is therefore improb- able that these bodies have any action farther than their local one. Other astringents of this category are Kino, Catechu, Hamamelis, Hsematoxylin, and Galls. (2) Vegetable Purgatives.— Such terms as aperient, hydragogue, cathartic, drastic, etc., are sometimes used to describe different purgatives, but the actions comprehended by the words are so largely a matter of dosage and individual proclivity as to deprive them of any definitive value. Cushny's classification into purgative oils, purgatives of the anthracene series, and the colocynth group will be followed here. Action of Vegetable Purgatives.—In small doses these intensify the action of the bowels, pro- ducing stools departing little from the normal; in larger doses the motions are numerous, watery, and copious, and are attended by pain and colic ; while in still larger doses the symptoms are those of enteritis. The origin of the fluidity of the stools produced by a purgative has been much discussed, but is probably largely a question of dosage. When moderate quantities of aperients are administered the normal fluid contents of the small intestine are hurried on into the lower bowel, while if the dose be so large as to produce congestion of the mucosa there is exudation into the bowels as well. Aperients probably act only when they come into direct contact with the bowel. In the case of such as produce catharsis when injected subcutaneously, the likelihood is that they do so by being excreted into the intestine. Although purgatives have little or no cholagogue effect, yet in many instances the 29450 PHARMACOLOGY solvent power of bile in the intestine is required to make them effectual—e.g. in the case of scammony, podophyllin, jalap, etc. Pu7-gative Oils. — The two members of this series are castor and croton oil. The former is a bland oil which, when saponified in the in- testine, yields the irritating ricino-oleic acid, while croton oil yields a much more active croton-olcic acid. This, moreover, exists free to a small extent in the unsaponified oil, which is therefore a local irritant, producing pustula- tion when applied to the skin. Anthi-acene Se7-ies.—Rhubarb, senna, aloes, and cascara owe their properties to certain anthra- cene compounds (Cj^Hjo), of the exact nature of which little is known. In almost all instances the active principles—e.g. aloin, cathartin—are less efficient than the crude drug. Aloes is said to act especially on the lower bowel, while cascara has the advantage that toleration is not readily established. Rhubarb contains tannic acid, and is therefore astringent, causing con- stipation after the bowels have acted. In recent years synthetic anthracene bodies—e.g. purgen (phenolphthalein)—have been tried as purga- tives, but with no apparent advantage. Colocynth Group. — These bodies have in common the possession of resinous substances; the nature of their active principles is not well known. Jalapin is a glucoside found in jalap and scammony; elaterin, a glucoside found in elaterium. In podophyllin we have podophyllo- toxin; in gamboge, cambogic acid; while euony- min and iridin are also members of the series. All are active purgatives, and in most cases irritants when applied to any mucous membrane. The presence of bile is indispensable to the action of many. Euonymin has also a mild digitalis action. (3) Drugs Destructive to Intestinal Parasites. (Vide " Anthelmintics.") B.—Drugs the Action of which is mainly General, and due to Absorption Volatile Oils.—The large number of volatile or essential oils used in medicine have many points of similarity, so that it is possible to consider the whole group together. Volatile oils vary greatly in composition, their most common constituents being terpenes (Cf,Hg)„. In addition to these and other hydrocarbons they usually contain oxidised aromatic substances such as phenols, aldehydes, etc., many of which crys- tallise out at low temperatures and are then known as stearoptenes; camphor is the chief of these. All volatile oils are antiseptic, but are more destructive to moulds than to bacteria. When applied to a mucous membrane they first cause irritation, then slight local anmsthesia ; the latter is chiefly due to the oxidised crystallisable bodies. Their actioia on the alimentary canal is compre- hended under the term carminative, and they have no very special effect on the digestive juices. Small doses stimulate the circulation; larger ones paralyse both the heart and spinal cord. After being swallowed, volatile oils pro- duce leucocytosis; this, liowever, may simply be due to intestinal congestion, and not to a specific action. The channels by whicli they are elimi- nated are important, because there their local action also comes into play. They are excreted both by the lungs and kidneys, and perhaps to a small extent by the skin. Many volatile oils are used chiefly asflavoxir- ing or perfuming agents—aniseed, cinnamon, rosemary, etc.; some are employed specially as carminatives—peppermint, dill, ginger, and cap- sicum ; others, again, by reason of their nauseous flavour—assafcetida and valerian. A somewhat more important group is that employed for the sake of its action on the urinary tract; of this, juniper, copaiba, sandalwood, and cubebs are the chief members. The first of these is credited with special diuretic virtues; the others are used as urinary disinfectants. Copaiba is an oleo-resin, and chiefly the resinous constituent is eliminated by the kidneys. Certain volatile oils are employed principally on account of their effect in reducing bronchial secretion, e.g. eucalyptus and turpentine. The last is also used as an anthelmintic. Oil of savin and rue are reputed abortifacients. Camphor demands separate mention. It is a local rubefacient, and when swallowed is rapidly absorbed. In toxic doses it causes excitement, convulsions passing into stupor, and death from respiratory failure. In small doses it is a cardiac stimulant, slowing the pulse and raising the blood pressure. Camphor is readily soluble in alcohol, oil, and milk. Menthol (the stearoptene from oil of pepper- mint) has much the same action as camphor, and, like it, though in more marked degree, produces a sensation of cold when rubbed on the skin. The explanation is not clear; it is associated with numbness and a distinct local anaesthetic effect. Camphor forms a syrupy fluid when triturated with choral; a similar result follows mixture with thymol, menthol, or phenol, as well as when any pair of the drugs named are rubbed together. Oil of Bitter Almonds.—Certain substances, themselves containing no volatile oil, develop one when crushed with water. The bitter almond is one of these; it contains a glucoside amygdaline, and a ferment which in the presence of water decomposes the glucoside into dextrose, hydrocyanic acid, and benzaldehyde. The two latter constitute oil of bitter almonds, which owes its activity to the prussic acid. The same reaction takes place when laurel leaves, or the bark of the virginian prune, are bruised with water. Mustard gives an analogous reaction with water, a glucoside being split up by a ferment into dextrose and volatile oil of mustard.PHARMACOLOGY 451 (2) Methane Series. {See also "Alcohol," " Anaesthetics," "Hypnotics.")—Many of this group possess hypnotic or soporific qualities. The most important of these are chloral hydrate, butyl chloral hydrate, chloretone, and chloral- amide ; paraldehyde; and sulphonal and trional. Chloral in small doses depresses the nervous system and produces sleep closely resembling the natural condition ; it has no analgesic action, hence pain hinders the soporific effect. In moderate doses the heart is slowed, and in larger doses the blood pressure falls and the circulation fails. Reflex irritability is diminished and finally abolished, the medulla being the last part affected, though ultimately the respiratory centre is paralysed {vide " Toxicology "). In some persons erythematous or urticarial rashes are produced by chloral. Butyl chloral acts like chloral, but is reputed to be analgesic, particularly as regards the fifth nerve. Chloralamide has soporific action, but is said (though this is doubtful) not to depress the circulation. Paraldehyde is a pure hypnotic, somewhat resembling alcohol. It produces a condition closely i-esembling natural sleep. It acts rapidly, and is excreted mainly by the urine and lungs, the odour hanging about the patient for some hours after administration. If paraldehyde be taken repeatedly over a considerable length of time, it produces in some persons tremor and indistinctness of articulation not unlike chronic alcoholism. This, however, passes off with the cessation of the drug. Sulphonal has a very similar action to the above ; it is very insoluble in water, and hence is absorbed and eliminated slowly. It should be given in a large quantity of hot fluid. It does not depress the heart. The sleep which follows is often succeeded by a feeling of lassitude and drowsiness. For the symptoms of poison- ing, see " Toxicology" (cf. also paragraph on chemical constitution and physiological action, a7ite). (3) Antijjyretics of the Aromatic {Carbolic and Salicylic Acid) Series.—Most of these are ob- tained from coal or wood tar. The principal members of the series are Carbolic acid or Phenol (CgHjOH), Eesorcin, the Naphthols, Thymol, and Guaiacol. The presence of the carboxyl group (COOH) lessens the toxicity of the aromatic series, and bodies containing it are employed as intestinal antiseptics and for other purposes. Salicylic acid (CgH^OHCOOH) and Benzoic acid (CgHgOHCOOH) are the chief of these. Carbolic acid is a general protoplasm poison, acting (in the higher vertebrates) chiefly on the nervous system. It is markedly destructive to lower forms of life, but not to unorganised ferments, and has a more penetrating action than the metallic antiseptics. Concentrated, it is an escharotic, painless from its local anaes- thetic action; when large doses of undiluted acid are taken it acts like a corrosive poison. After absorption it produces depression, vomit- ing, giddiness, pallor, and collapse, with failure of the heart and respiration ; the blood corpus- cles are destroyed, and there may be haemoglo- binuria. In chronic poisoning, as in absorption from the skin, vomiting, collapse, and rapid pulse occur. {See also under "Toxicology.") Carbolic acid is excreted unoxidised for the most part, but some is excreted in the urine as sulphates and glycuronates of phenol, hydro- quinone, and pyrocatechin; the characteristic greenish-black colour of the urine is due to the further oxidation of the two last. Sidphocarbolates act like carbolic acid, but are less toxic. They are used as intestinal dis- infectants. Thymol resembles carbolic acid in its action, but is less toxic. The Naphthols ^^roduce similar symptoms, but are more irritating to the respiratory and urinary passages, causing coughing or strangury, or even nephritis. Creosote is wood tar minus the more poisonous phenols; its chief components are guaiacols and cresols. It is as strongly germicidal as carbolic acid, and less poisonous. Guaiacol lowers febrile temperatures when applied to the skin, but the effect is temporary and accompanied by much depression. Salicylic acid is less toxic to higher animals than phenol, which it almost equals in anti- septic power; it also inhibits the action of unorganised ferments. Salicylates act like salicylic acid, but are less irritating. The effects of salicylic acid on low organisms resemble those of quinine and phenol, but if much proteid be present the antiseptic action is inferior, probably from lack of penetration. Locally it produces necrosis of the epidermis, but is less corrosive than phenol. After ab- sorption, heaviness of the head and singing in the ears result. Large doses cause acid in- toxication, with a peculiar form of dyspnoea, like the "air hmiger" of diabetic coma; but, as Dr. Lees points out, this may be prevented by the simultaneous administration of double the amount of sodium bicarbonate. Delirium is not uncommon even after medicinal doses of salicylates. Htemoglobinuria or albuminuria may occur. Salicylic acid has also an antipyretic action ; it first stimulates and then enfeebles the heart, dilates the cutaneous vessels, and produces perspiration. It is a cholagogue and diuretic, and increases the output of uric acid, urea, and sulphur. Methyl salicylate, present in oil of winter- green, has the properties of a volatile oil, and after absorption produces the same effects as salicylic acid. Salol is decomposed in the alimentary canal into phenol and salicylic acid, and in large doses produces the symptoms of carbolic acid poisoning; it frequently causesPHAKMACOLOGY 452 discoloration of the urine. Salicin, a glucoside found in the willow and poplar, decomposes in the body, yielding salicylic acid. Aspirin, or acetyl-salicylic acid, presents little advantage over salicylic acid; it is said to be less de- pressant than salicylic acid. Benzoic acid has much the same action as salicylic acid; it is toxic only in large doses. It has little effect on the nervous system in man, and does not cause disturbances of hearing or sight; but in animals it produces convulsions and paralysis, with acceleration and then slowing of the pulse and respiration. It increases the bronchial secretion, and is excreted in the urine partly unchanged and partly as hippuric acid. The Benzoates have the same action, but are not irritating. All the coal-tar derivatives are (1) antipyretics, (2) antiseptics, because protoplasmic poisons, (3) narcotic to central nervous system ; they all (4) tend to change oxyhsemoglobin into methsemoglobin (see articles on " Antipyretics " and "Analgesics"). (4) Strychnine.—This alkaloid, with Brucine, is the principal constituent of the strychnos nux voniiccE. Others which resemble it are Oelsemine, and Thehaine, present in opium. The brunt of the action of strychnine falls on the spinal cord, the convulsions which it causes occurring when the medulla is divided, and even though the drug does not reach the peripheral nerves. Small doses render the special senses more acute — for example, the visual fields are enlarged, and the power of dis- criminating shades of colour enhanced—partly from central, partly from peripheral action, while probably the irritability of the motor cortex is also exaggerated. The first eff'ect of strychnine is to increase reflex excitability and muscular tonus, which is succeeded by tonic miisciilar spasm. The characteristic of the con- vulsion is its dependence on external stimuli, and a further peculiarity is that any stimulus always produces the maximal degree of spasm. In man, strychnine poisoning gives rise to stiffness of the neck muscles, then general clonic and tonic spasms with opisthotonos and consequent failure of respiration for the time being, and death from exhaustion and asphyxia after a comparatively short interval. That the muscular spasm requires in-coming impulses to initiate it is shown by the fact that convulsions do not occur when the terminations of the sensory nerves are paralysed by cocaine, nor when the posterior roots are divided. The con- vulsant action of strychnine is succeeded by depression and paralysis. The drug stimulates the respiratory and vaso-motor centres and the motor ganglia of the heart, but has no direct action on the cardiac muscle. It also acts as a simple bitter, while owing to the muscular energy evoked metabolism is increased. Brucine resembles strychnine, but is much weaker. Gelsemine has a feeble strychnine action ; it must be distinguished from gelsemi- nine, to which the effects of gelsemium are due. All these alkaloids are antagonised by chloral and by physostigmine. (5) Opinm Series.—From the papaver s(y>nni- ferum are obtained a great number of alkaloids of which Morphine is the most important. Chief among the others are Codeine, Thehaine, Narcotine, Papaverine, and Narceine; the re- mainder occur in traces only. The probable rational formula of morphine is— By substituting methyl for one of the hydroxyl molecules codeine is formed. Morphine has both a stimulant and a depres- sant action on the central nervous system ; on the whole the latter predominates in the higher centres, the former in the lower. In animals, these two conflicting actions prevail to a varying extent. In frogs poisoned with opium there is first a stage of motor depression and inco-ordina- tion, followed by a period of heightened reflex excitability culminating in convulsions as severe as those due to strychnine. In cats there is sometimes also a stage of excitement followed by convulsions. In man, however, the depressant effect pre- vails throughout the whole nervous system. In moderate doses the drug lessens cortical irritability, apparently by diminishing the power of concentrating the attention. Under its in- fluence stimuli are unnoticed so long as they remain of uniform strength ; on the other hand, svdden shocks are readily perceived. One of the chief effects of morphine is the relief of pain, which is attained by doses quite insufficient to interfere with consciousness. This property is related to the narcotic action of the drug, which produces drowsiness passing into sleep. In the lighter stages of narcosis the imagination runs riot; in the deeper, the sleep is sound and dreamless — yet the patient can be readily aroused, as readily to fall asleep again. After larger doses, sleep passes into torpor from which awakening is difficult, and eventually coma sets in {vide " Toxicology "). Tactile sensibility is diminished by small doses, but this seems to be a central effect. Respiration is at first slow and deep; then becomes shallow and irregular, and finally paralysed. The circulatory centres are but little directly affected. The superficial vessels of the face and neck are dilated, but heart failure is merely secondary to asphyxia. The peripheral nerves are unaffected. The pupils become contracted to a pin-point; this action is central, not local. The action of morphine on the nervous system, then, is one of depres- sion first of the higher psychical and sensory functions, passing down, and eventually attack-PHARMACOLOGY 453 ing the respiratory centre. Action on the Alimentary Canal. — Small quantities lessen the sensation of hunger; gastric secretion is retarded, and peristalsis is diminished. Nausea, vomiting, and constipation are produced by larger doses. The secretory organs through- out the body, with the exception of the sweat glands, become inactive. The urine is not much affected, but there may be retention. Metabolism is lessened during the stage of narcosis. Morphia is a drug for which tolerance is easily established; when this occurs, very little of a dose can be recovered from the excreta. The tissues, therefore, have acquired the power of oxidising the drug. Morphine is excreted chiefly by the bowel, even after hypodermic administration. Traces also occur in the urine. Codeine (methyl morphine) is a less active narcotic than morphine, and under its influence the pupillary contraction, slowing of the respir- ation, and affection of digestion, are not so pronounced. Papaverine stands between mor- phine and codeine in its action, while Narco- tine is less depressant and more stimulating, and stands intermediate between codeine and Thebaine, which produces symptoms practically similar to those of strychnine. Heroine, or aceto-morphine, is an artificial alkaloid derived from morphine by substituting acetyl for the two hydrogens of the (OH) groups. It is a sedative, used particularly in irritable cough, without being a depressant to the re- spiratory centre. Apomorphine.—Apomorphine is formed when morphine is dehydi'ated by an acid. It retains the stimulant effects of morphine, particularly on the vomiting centre, but loses its depres- sant action. It increases saliva, sweat, bron- chial and other secretions, and rapidly induces nausea and vomiting. The last of these is due to central action, since it is more speedily pro- duced by subcutaneous than by oral administra- tion. Nausea and vomiting occur in ten or fifteen minutes after a dose of yV-|^ gr., and are accompanied by considerable depression. In small doses it is a useful expectorant. In animals the action of apomorphine resembles that of its parent, morphine. (6) Hydrastine. — This alkaloid is derived from Hydrastis canadensis, and somewhat re- sembles narcotine, one of the opium alkaloids. When oxidised, they split up into opianic acid and hydrastinine and stypticine respectively. In small doses hydrastine causes muscular weakness, inco-ordination, and slow pulse; in large doses, convulsions followed by paralysis. Moderate doses stimulate the respiratory and vaso-motor centre, constrict the arterioles, and are said to excite uterine contractions. Hydras- tinine stimulates the vaso-motor and vagus centres, and possibly the heart muscle, but has little effect on the cord. Whether it acts on the uterus is doubtful. Stypticine {Cotar- nine) resembles hydrastinine in being a powerful vaso-constrictor. (7) Cannabis Indica.—Indian hemp is widely used as an intoxicant and narcotic in the East under the names Bhang, Hasheesh, etc. Its active ingredient is probably a resin. The action of cannabis indica is somewhat uncertain, doubtless from variations in and impurities of the crude drug. Like opium, it induces a mixture of stimulation and depression of the higher centres, and lessens the sensibility to pain ; illusions of time and space are a marked feature of the action. It produces a drowsy semi-unconscious state in which vivid dreams and sometimes hallucinations, generally of a pleasant nature, occur. Among Orientals amor- ous ideas play an important part in the visions ; these are not marked in Europeans. In the Eastern, too, the languorous stage is often preceded by excitement or mania, during which crimes may be committed. Convulsions and catalepsy may take place. Eventually the patient passes into a dreamless slumber from which he wakens without unpleasant after- effects. The drug is much less toxic than opium, and neither constipates nor disturbs digestion. Fatal poisoning is rare; the drug is said to kill by its action on the heart, but its physiological action has not been thoroughly worked out. (8) Hydrocyanic Acid. — Prussic acid is a general protoplasm poison, being extremely fatal to all forms of life. The poisonous effect is probably due to the presence of hydrocyanic acid interfering with the absorption of oxygen by the protoplasm. The drug has a local anses- thetic effect on mucous surfaces, and this is the only one of its actions which is made use of in medicine. In toxic doses it stimulates and then depresses the nervous system, including the respiratory, vaso-motor, and vagus centres, pro- ducing convulsions followed by paralysis; the respiration and circulation are affected through its action on the cerebro-spinal axis, and it also acts directly on the heart muscle, slowing the rate of the heart. Poisoning is so rapid that chemical antagonists are seldom available. Sodium hyposulphite (2 to 4 drs. hypodermi- cally) forms a non-poisonous sulphocyanide, and is effective after absorption. (9) Caffeine.—In a number of plants widely used as beverages, certain xanthin or purin bodies, of which cafteine (theine) and theo- bromine are the chief, are found. The chief of these plants are tea, coftee, and cocoa; kola, which is employed in Central Africa, Paraguayan tea or mate, and the guarana of Brazil, are the best known of the others. Of their active principles, caffeine and theobromine alone are used in medicine. Caffeine is a nervous stimulant, particularly454 PHARMACOLOGY to the higher centres. It increases ideation, and in small doses facilitates mental efibrt, while the ergograph shows that it augments the capacity for physical work. In larger amounts it causes headache and insomnia, and more rarely delirium and tremor. In lower animals the cord is the chief seat of the action of the drug, the symptoms caused resembling those of strychnine. Action on the Heart and Respira- tion.—The vaso-motor centre is stimulated, and the heart accelerated from direct action on the muscle; the respiration is also quickened and becomes deeper. Action on the Muscles.—The working capacity of a muscle is enhanced, fatigue is delayed, and the stimulus required to evoke a contraction is diminished. Action on the Kidneys.—The renal epithelium is stimu- lated, and diuresis occurs ; this may be counter- acted if the vaso-constriction be so great as to diminish the flow of blood through the kidney. It is not a digitalis action, but is due to direct effect on the renal epithelium, the water of the urine especially being increased. Theobromine resembles caffeine in its action, but has less effect on the nerve centres, and hence is preferable as a diuretic. (10) Cura;ra. — Curara is not used in thera- peutics. It paralyses the terminations of nerves supplying striped muscle, and therefore abolishes the power of voluntary movement. In larger doses the peripheral ganglia are similarly affected. There is no action on the heart, and death is due to paralysis of the muscles of respiration. Owing, in part, to rapid excretion, curara is not poisonous when administered by the mouth. (11) Coniine, Gelseminine, Sparteine., and Loheline.—Coniine, the active principle of the hemlock, was the first vegetable alkaloid to be prepared synthetically. Two others, Gelsemi- nine (Gelsemium semper'virens, the white jas- mine) and Sparteine {Cytisus scoparivs, the broom), resemble it in action. Coniine paralyses the voluntary muscles and respiration, the mind remaining clear to the end. Most specimens of the alkaloid contain the more potent methyl-coniine, as well as normal coniine, hence the action is variable. Normal coniine has a curara action on the nerve endings ; methyl coniine acts chiefly on the cord, paralysing reflex action. The other effects of the alkaloid are less important, and the drug is little used in therapeutics at the present time. Gelseminine, which is found along with gel- semine (vide supra), is a more powerful cord depressant than coniine; hence the paralysis which it causes is central, not peripheral. It is a mydriatic, and paralyses accommodation when applied to the eye. It difters from hemlock in producing sensory paralysis and, ultimately, loss of tactile sensibility; on this account it finds its chief sphere of usefulness as an analgesic. Sparteine is less poisonous than either of the preceding. It is said to act by paralysing the motor nerve endings. In small doses it increases cardiac diastole, without diminishing the strength of the contraction. The diuretic virtues of broom tops are due, not to sparteine but to scoparine, which acts on the renal epithelium. Loheline {Lobelia injlata) resembles coniine and nicotine. Among other actions it depresses the vagus, and hence is said to relax bronchial spasm. (12) Nicotine.—Although tobacco has now fallen into disuse in therapeutics, the fact that of all drugs it is the most widely used by all ranks and conditions of men necessitates a brief account of its physiological action. Nicotine is the only important toxic constituent of tobacco : during the preparation of the leaf a volatile oil is developed, and partly on this, and partly, too, on decomposition products of nicotine, do the varying qualities and flavours of tobacco depend. Action on the Circulation.—The ganglia of the vagus are first stimulated and then para- lysed. The former effect—i.e. slowing of the heart—is prevented by atropine, which para- lyses the nerve endings, and by curara, which paralyses the ganglia. Nicotine also acts directly on the heart muscle, or the termina- tions of the accelerator nerve, which are first stimulated, then depressed. This action on ganglia—stimulation followed by depression— is a key to some other effects of nicotine. It causes a temporary rise in arterial pressure, due to constriction of the arterioles from stimulation of their ganglionic apparatus, but this is followed by a fall below normal. It also increases and then checks the flow of saliva and other secre- tions. The stimulant action on the ganglia of the wall of the alimentary canal increases peri- stalsis, leads to vomiting and diarrhoea, and culminates in a tetanic contraction of the in- testines. The pupil is at first contracted, then dilated. Respiration is accelerated, then para- lysed. There is increased reflex excitability of the cord, followed by depression. The most important symptoms caused by the abuse of tobacco are a sense of oppression at the heart, intermission and irregularity of the pulse; toxic amblyopia, showing itself by central scotoma, especially for colours ; nervous- ness and tremor. In addition to these, chronic dyspepsia may be caused, and various local ailments of the mouth and throat. There is a fair degree of probability that certain groups of symptoms due to arterial disease—e.g. inter- mittent claudication—occur chiefly in heavy smokers, and the physiological action of the drug in causing contraction of the arterioles to some extent explains this. (13) Atrojrine Series. — In several of the Solanncecf {Atrojya belladonna, Hyo.%cyamus niyer. Datura stramonium, Dohoisia myoporo- ides, etc.) alkaloids agreeing in their generalPHARMACOLOGY 455 nature are found. The most important of these are atropine and its isomer hyoscyamine, and hyoscine or scopolamine. Some of the other bodies — e.g. duboisine and daturine — which were formerly regarded as allied substances, are now thought to be merely combinations of these. Atropine is broken up by alkalis into Tropine and Tropic acid, and by substituting other acids for the latter an artificial series of alkaloids, named Tropeines, has been formed. Homatropine is the only one of these which has so far found a place in therapeutics. Atropine has a very extensive influence on the functions of the body. It profoundly affects the secretions, the circulation, unstriped muscles, and the pupil. Action on the Secretions.— Glandiilar activity is decreased by atropine, not from any interference with the cells them- selves but from peripheral paralysis of the terminations of the secretory nerves. This action extends to the salivary and other glands of the mouth and respiratory tract, to the glands of the stomach, and the sweat glands, of all of which the function is arrested by atropine. In the case of the salivary glands only the terminations of the chorda tympani are affected, the sympathetic fibres being spared. The pancreas and mamma, which continue to secrete after all their nerves are divided, are partially independent of the nervous system, and in so far escape the paralysing influence of the drug, though they too have their fimction diminished. The kidney is not influenced by atropine, save in so far as the secretion of urine is governed by the activity or otherwise of other organs. Action on the Circulation. — The terminations of the vagus in the heai't are paralysed, and in consequence the beat becomes more rapid. Systole is in- creased, and the output of the heart becomes greater. While this is the most important action of atropine, the effect is complicated by the fact that it stimulates the vaso-motor centre controlling the abdominal arterioles, and at the same time produces dilatation of the cutaneous vessels through a similar action on the vaso-dilator centre. The net result is that the blood pressure rises unless the dose be large enough to depress the heart mviscle. Actiori on the Eye.—The terminations of the motor oculi are pai-alysed and the pupil dilates from the unopposed action of the radiating fibres, ac- commodation is paralysed, and the intra-ocular tension is heightened. Action on other Non- striped Muscle.—The drug has a sedative effect on all organs containing unstriped muscle except the arteries. In the intestine the mechanism by which this takes place is not clear; possibly the ganglia, rather than the nei've endings, are affected. The uterus, bronchial muscles, bladder, spleen, and oesophagus show less tendency to con- tractility after atropine has been administered. The other actions of the drug are less important. The central nervous system is stimulated at first, then depressed. In man there is delirium and motor excitement. In animals the motor centres respond to subnormal electrical stimula- tion. The stage of excitement passes into one of paralysis. The voluntary muscles and their nerves are unaffected, but atropine has a local antesthetic effect on sensory nerve endings. The respiratory centre is at first stimulated, then depressed ; the body temperature is raised. Homatropine differs from atropine in being less toxic; its mydriatic effect is of shorter duration. Hyoscyamine acts more powerfully on the nerve endings than atropine. In the central nervous system depression predominates over excitement, and drowsiness and sleep occur. Hyoscine or Scopolamine.— This drug is a powerful depressant of the central nervous system, sleep being produced by such small doses as ^hs g*"- sleep is said to resemble natural sleep more closely than that produced by opium or chloral. Hyoscine has recently been somewhat extensively employed, alone or in combination with morphine, in producing semi-narcosis during parturition. Hyoscine acts on the nerve endings as ati'opine does, but this sphere of its activity is not of much practical importance. (14) Cocaine. — Cocaine, derived from the Erythroxylon coca, acts both on the central nervous system, and on the terminations of the peripheral sensory nerves. The latter action is practically the more important. When applied locally the drug paralyses the end organs of nerves conveying impressions of pain and touch, sensations of heat and cold remaining perceptible. Smell is entirely paralysed when cocaine is applied to the nasal mucosa, but when applied to the tongue only bitter tastes are abolished, salts, sweets, and acids being recognisable. In addition to the ansesthetic effect there is also local vascular constriction. While cocaine is ansesthetic to mucous membranes, it peneti'ates the skin so slowly that in order to affect cutane- ous nerves it must be injected subcutaneously. When used thus it not only paralyses the nerve endings, but if injected near a nerve tnmk penetrates it and causes ansesthesia of the area governed by its ramifications. A similar result follows intra-spinal injection, probably from action of the posterior roots. When applied to the eye cocaine causes anaesthesia, dilates the pupil, and partially paralyses accommoda- tion. It dilates the pupil less than atropine does, and probably acts by stimulating the dilator fibres of the sympathetis and not by paralysing the third nerve. Of the general effects of the drug the most important is that of removing fatigue and increasing the power of doing work ; it also produces talkativeness and excitement. The cortical motor areas re- spond to subnormal electrical stimuli; with456 PHARMACOLOGY larger doses there is heightened reflex excita- bility, and convulsions ensue. The drug is thus a stimulant, first to the higher centres, the action descending to lower parts of the cerebro- spinal axis, respiration, heart, and vaso-motor centre as the dose is increased. The stage of stimulation is followed by depression. Eucaine is an artificial alkaloid which is almost as powerful a local anaesthetic as cocaine, but is less toxic. It is neither a mydriatic nor a vaso- constrictor. Its general effects differ greatly from those of cocaine, but in the doses employed to obtain local angesthesia they are of no im- portance. Among other synthetic substitutes for cocaine stovaine and novocain may be men- tioned. They are powerful local anaesthetics, and less toxic than cocaine. (15) Pilocarpine. — Pilocarpine {Pilocarpus pennatifolius) is in some respects antagonistic to atropine; it stimulates the terminations of many nerves supplying glands and non-striped muscle. Action on Secretion.—The sweat glands, the lachrymal and salivary glands, the secretory structures of the mouth, throat, stomach, and respiratory tract, and the pancreas and intes- tinal glands are thrown into a state of activity; the mamma, kidneys, and liver are unaffected. The action is on the nerve endings, and is pre- vented by a small dose of atropine. Action on Non-striped Muscle.—The involuntary muscles of the alimentary canal are stimulated to active peristalsis, and vomiting and purging may en- sue ; the bladder, uterus, and bronchial muscles are also stimulated. Action on the Eye.—The terminations of the third nerve are stimulated ; the pupil contracts, there is spasm of the ciliary muscle, and the intra-ocular tension is reduced. Like the effects on secretion, these actions on the nerves supplying unstriped muscle may be prevented by atropine. Action on the Circula- tion.—This varies in different animals. In cats the terminations of the vagus are first stimu- lated, then depressed ; later, the cardiac muscle itself is weakened. Thus the heart is first slowed, then regains its former rate, then slows again. These changes are not always seen in man. Respiration is not directly affected, but oedema of the lungs may result from even com- paratively small doses of pilocarpine. The lymphocytes are increased in number by the drug, possibly from its constricting action on the muscle of the spleen and glands driving an excess of these cells into the blood. Muscarine, an alkaloid derived from one of the poisonous mushrooms, resembles pilocarpine, but is highly toxic and is not used in medicine. (16) Physostigmine {Eserine).—This is the active principle of the Physostigma venenosum, the ordeal bean of Old Calabar. In its action on the secretions, on unstriped muscle, and on the eye, physostigmine resembles pilocarpine. But whereas small doses of atropine suffice to arrest the action of the latter drug, larger doses are required to antagonise physostigmine com- pletely, while when an eye is under the influence of a small dose of atropine the effect of that drug is lessened by the subsequent application of eserine. The general action of physostigmine is a depression of the central nervous system, particularly in its lower regions—medulla and cord. In man, poisoning by physostigmine shows itself by giddiness and muscular weakness, salivation, perspiration, vomiting and purging, and contraction of the pupil. The pulse is slowed, and death results from respiratory failure. The action of physostigmine on the heart seems to depart to some extent from the rule of an- tagonism to atropine, for although the drug causes slowing of the pulse, this is not a vagus effect, since it occurs even after large doses of atropine. (17) Aconitine.—Aconitine {Aconitum napel- lus and other species of monkshood) is one of the most toxic of all drugs. Delphinine, which occurs in stavesacre {Delphinum staphisagria), resembles it, but is much less poisonous. Aconitine stimulates and then depresses the sensory nerve endings; hence it produces a sensation of burning or tingling, first locally in the mouth, then generally, which passes into a feeling of numbness of the whole cutaneous surface. In small doses the vagus centre is stimulated, the circulation slowed, and the blood pressure lowered ; in larger (poisonous) quantities the terminations of the vagus are paralysed and the cardiac muscle stimulated —the pulse becomes rapid and irregular, and delirium cordis supervenes. The respiration becomes slow and laboured from action on the respiratory centre, which is finally paralysed. There is great nuiscular weakness, and marked fall in temperature probably from affection of the heat-regulating mechanism. Saliva is in- creased, there is nausea and vomiting, the skin glands act freely. (18) Veratrine. — Veratrine is present in several species of the genus Veratrnm; it is ac- companied by a number of other alkaloids, most of which are comparatively inert. Veratrine itself is of little interest medicinally. In some respects it resembles aconitine, stimulating and then numbing the sensory nerve endings when applied locally, and causing vomiting and purg- ing. Its most characteristic effect is on striped muscle, of which it increases both the irritability and the force and duration of the contraction. The effects of fatigue are in some measure lessened by the drug. Its action on the mam- malian heart resembles that of aconitine, but is less marked. (19) Emetine.—Emetine, which, along with Cephaline, is the chief alkaloid of Psychotria ipecacuanha, does not replace the crude drug in medicine; indeed, in certain diseases the powdered root from which the emetine has been removed is said to retain all the thera-457 PHARMACOLOGY peutic properties of the unaltered drug. Eme- tine is a local irritant; there is, however, con- siderable personal idiosyncrasy as regards its action, the coryzal and catarrhal symptoms which it produces being especially seen in cer- tain susceptible persons. It causes diaphoresis, salivation, nausea, and vomiting even when injected beneath the skin, and this action is attended by some depression or even cai-diac failure. Large doses may produce gastro- enteritis. Probably all the actions of emetine, even when injected subcutaneously, are due to the local irritation which it causes, and not to any effect on the central nervous system. (20) Colchicine.—The Colchicum autwmnale owes its inclusion in the Pharmacopoeia to its remedial virtue in gout, which has been learned empirically, and of which the pharmacology of colchicine affords no explanation. In ordinary doses the alkaloid has no apparent effect; in poisonous quantities the local irritation of the gastro-intestinal tract which is produced shows itself by nausea, vomiting, and dysenteric diar- rhoea, while the circulation is affected by the collapse which ensues. The irritation extends to the kidneys, causing diuresis, hsematuria, or anuria. Death occurs from failure of the respiration. Colchicine, in fact, acts like an irritant poison. It has the further peculiarity that after a latent period of some hours (no matter how administered, or in what doses) it paralyses the nervous system. It also pro- duces first a fall, then a marked rise, in the leucocytes. (21) Saponin and Sapotoxin.—In a number of drugs, mostly employed as expectorants, toxic giucosides having the property of forming- frothy soap-like solutions, and hence called saponins and sapotoxins, are present. The chief members of the group are Polygala senega, Qwillaia saponaria, and various species of Smilax (sarsaparilla). Solani^ie, found in the deadly nightshade {Solanum nigrum), and also in small quantities in the potato {S. tuberosum), has properties like those of saponin. Its chief interest lies in the fact that the amount in the potato may increase to a dangerous extent and give rise to symptoms of poisoning, when the tubers begin to sprout in damp cellars, and when green unripe potatoes are used. Nearly half the solanine is removed with the skin of the potato, and much of what remains is ex- tracted by boiling. The saponins and their allies are local irri- tants and general protoplasmic poisons when they come in contact with the cells in sufficient concentration. They therefore cause gastro- intestinal symptoms, and when absorbed act as blood poisons, causing ecchymoses, hsematuria, and hsemoglobinuria. Respiration is paralysed, and convulsions may occur from action on the central nervous system. They weaken the heart, probably by direct action. (22) Quinine.—Quinine, obtained from several species of cinchona, is one of the most im- portant alkaloids we possess. Its special char- acteristic is an action on all forms of proto plasm, not, as in the case of most of the alka- loids, on a special group of cells. Its general effect may be summed up as one of stimida tion followed by depression; it is therefore a general protoplasmic poison. Its action on low forms of life has especially been studied by Binz, who found that while weak solutions stimulated the movements of amoebse, stronger ones paralysed and then killed the organism. Ordinary bacteria are more resistant than pro- tozoa, and moulds grow freely in solutions of quinine. The reproductive cells of animals have their vitality impaired by quinine, and the conjugation of ovum aud spermatozoon, with its after results, are rendered abnormal in con- sequence. Leucocytes are affected similarly to amoebae, becoming granular and losing their power of movement. Various unorganised ferments—e.g. the gastric and pancreatic—are also inhibited by the drug. Tiirning to the effect of quinine on the general economy, its most important action is that of an antipyretic. As this occurs after division of the spinal cord, it cannot be due to any action on the heat- regulating centres in the brain, but must arise from a direct effect on the tissues—decreased production and increased loss—probably con- nected with the alterations in metabolism which the drug brings about. The normal tempera- ture is not lowered by quinine ; a fall takes place only when fever is present. The exact means by which quinine lowers the febrile temperature, however, is still an unsolved problem. Action on Jletabolisfn.—Oxidation, as measured by the respiratory interchange, is not affected; but the breaking down of nitrogenous bodies is retarded, and the urinary output of nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus is diminished. In small doses quinine acts like a simple bitter; in larger quantities it causes gastric derangement. Affections of hearing— a ringing sound in the ears and slight deafness —commonly follow ordinary doses ; contraction of the visual fields, loss of colour vision, and even temporary blindness may result from larger amounts. In toxic doses the pulse is slowed, and there is confusion and unsteady gait; in fatal poisoning collapse, loss of sight and hearing, and failure of respiration have been noted. Quinine is commonly believed to be an exciter of uterine contraction; whether rightly or no is doubtful. Idiosyncrasy to the action of quinine is frequently met with: in such cases the ear symptoms occur after small doses; exanthematous skin eruptions may ap- pear ; albuminuria and htematuria have been noticed. Quinine is excreted rapidly, and can easily be detected in the urine. (23) Digitalis and Allied Drugs.—The charac-458 PHARMACOLOGY teristic of this group is its action on the heart. The most important members are the Digitalis purpurea (purple foxglove), Strophanthus his- pidus, Convallaria majalis (lily of the valley), Scilla maritima (squill), and Hellehorus niger (Christmas rose). The active principles of these plants are glucosides, and their isolation is attended with considerable difficulty. The most widely used of all, and, indeed, one of the most indispensable of all the drugs in the physician's armamentarium—digitalis—will first be considered in detail, and thereafter the points of resemblance and difference between it and its congeners will be briefly referred to. Digitalis owes its activity to four glucosides —digitoxin, digitalin, digitophyllin, and digi- talein, the first of which is the most active. The pharmacopoeial preparations, which are derived fi'om the leaves, contain all these; commercial digitalines contain relatively more digitalin and digitalein, and hence are less active, and give, as a rule, less satisfactory results in practice. Actimi on the Heart.— Under digitalis the heart's action becomes slower, its contraction becomes more complete, and its diastolic dilatation less. Three phases of the action of the drug can be recognised :— (1) In the first, or therapeutic, stage the rhythm of the heart is slowed from stimulation of the vagus centre prolonging the diastolic pause, and the ventricles contract and empty themselves more completely than normal. The extent to which relaxation occurs during diastole, depending as it does on the conflicting factors —inhibition and muscular action—varies ac- cording to the condition of the heart: if the organ is normal digitalis increases the relaxa- tion ; if weak and dilated, lessens it. Thus under pathological conditions the output of blood at each systole is increased, and the blood pressure is raised. (2) In the second stage (not always recognisable in man) inhibi- tion is increased, leading to slowness and irregularity of the pulse, and excessive dilata- tion during diastole. If the muscular action is well developed, contraction is still very com- plete ; but this may be masked by the excessive inhibition, so that the outflow of blood per minute is diminished, though that at each systole is increased. When the vagus is para- lysed by atropine this second stage is absent. (3) In the third stage, under very large doses of digitalis the heart is very greatly accelerated from irritability of the cardiac muscle, the auricles and ventricles cease to beat in harmony, conti'action follows contraction so rapidly that the chambers of the heart have not time to dilate fully, and, consequently, the outpvit of blood is diminished; finally, the heart is arrested. It is commonly stated that after fatal digitalis poisoning the heart is found in systole, but apparently this is not so. It seems that after tlie circulation ceases the mammalian heart passes into diastole, while that of the frog remains firmly contracted. Action on the Peri- pheral res.se^s.—Digitalis acts directly on the arterioles by contracting their walls, and prob- ably stimulates the vaso-motor centre as well. This, associated with the increased cardiac out- put during the first stage, raises the blood pressure. " As the pulse becomes irregular during the second stage, the blood pressure falls. Action on the Kidneys.—Even in normal persons digitalis has a diuretic action, the amount of water, though not of solids, excreted being increased. This is not due to any direct action on the renal cells, but to the increased cardiac activity, and when dropsy is present diuresis is a striking feature of the action of digitalis. In addition to these effects, digitalis in small doses acts as a bitter and stimulant to primary digestion; in larger doses it is a local irritant, causing nausea, vomiting, and sometimes purging. It reduces the tempera- ture in pyrexial conditions, though how it does so is not known, nor is the action itself of practical importance. Its action on the muscles is not limited to those of the heart and vessels, for in large doses it stimulates the uterine fibres and unstriped muscle generally. In practice it should be remembered that the active principles of digitalis both enter the circulation and are eliminated from the body slowly and irregularly, so that the drug may be cumulative. Our object is to maintain the first stage of its action, and the earliest indications that this is being overstepped are irregularity of the pulse and abnormally low secretion of urine. In febrile conditions the drug has less action in slowing the heart than in cardiac disease, apparently because the vagus is then less active ; hence its eftect should be estimated less by the pulse-rate than by the general con- dition of the circulation. When any symptoms of overdosage become manifest, the recumbent posture should be very strictly enforced lest sudden syncope occur. Strophanthus. — The active principle is a glucoside, Strophanthin. Its pharmacological effects resemble those of digitalis, but, owing to its extreme solubility in water, are more rapidly produced, while for the same reason the drug is not cumulative. Its action on the heart is like that of digitalis, but is much more powerful, while it has very little vaso-constrictor action. It is an active diuretic, raising the blood pressure in the kidneys without constricting the vessels. Hellehorus 7tt(/er.—The glucoside Hellehonn closely resembles strophanthus in its action on the heart and vessels. Squill. — Tins plant contains a glucoside Scillitoxiu and other principles, but to which,' of these its activity is due has not been definitely ascertained. It resembles digitalis in its action on the heart and vessels ; but this is a subsidiary matter as far as its therapeutic value is con-459 PHARMACOLOGY cerned, since it is chiefly employed for its action on the kidney and respiratory tract. It is an irritant, first locally in the stomach and bowel, causing nausea, and in large doses vomiting and diarrhoea; after absorption it stimulates the bronchial secretion (hence is used as an expec- torant), and the renal functions, acting as a diuretic. Convallaria combines the actions of digitalis and squill. It is a powerful cardiac tonic, diuretic, and purgative. (24) Adrenalin.—From the suprarenal glands a substance has been extracted which has a very striking action on the circulatory system. Even in minimal doses it produces a rapid and very marked rise in the blood pressure, while the heart is slowed and its beat strengthened. The rise in blood pressure is due partly to direct action on the vessels, partly to stimulation of the vaso-motor centre, and partly to the action on the heart, which consists of more forcible systole and less complete diastole. Not all the vessels are equally affected by adrenalin ; those of the lungs and brain are little influenced by the drug, the cutaneous vessels are contracted, but the brunt of the action falls on the vessels of the splanchnic area. When applied locally to a mucous membrane adrenalin produces pallor from constriction of the neighbouring vessels ; it has no action on unbroken skin. It also produces contraction of unstriped muscle other than that of the vessels; thus changes in the eye similar to those induced by cocaine are caused, and the uterus and other reproductive organs become anaemic and contracted under its influence. It stimulates secretion, and in this respect antagonises atropine. When injected subcutaneously glycosuria results. (25) Ergot. — Ergot is a parasitic fungus {Claviceps purpurea) which is found in diseased rye {Secale cornutum). Epidemics of poisoning have from time to time been caused by the use of this as a food. Here, however, the symptoms of ergotism need not be discussed. The active principles of ergot are not well known ; they are apparently very unstable, and the crude drug is itself a variable substance. It contains a saponin—ergotinic acid; a mix- ture of alkaloids to which the name of cornutine is given; and a resinous body, sphacelotoxin. Probably the last of these is the most important principle; but in practice an active standardised preparation of the crude drug should be used, and to this the following remarks apply. The chief pharmacological action of ergot is its power of stimulating unstriped muscle to contraction. It causes vaso-constriction from central action (the pulmonary vessels alone being excepted), stimulates the heart muscle directly, and in consequence raises the blood pressure. It has a similar action on the un- striped muscle of the gastric and intestinal wall, and may cause vomiting and diarrhoea. Ergot is chiefly employed for the sake of its action on the uterus; it increases the tonus of the muscle, and stimulates contraction. Experi- mental observations are at variance as to the precise action on the parturient uterus, and it must sufiice to say that all clinical evidence points to the production of a continued tetanic spasm of the uterine wall, and interference with the normal relaxation. In animals it certainly produces abortion; in man it is questionable whether, except in poisonous doses, it has the power of so doing. (26) Nitrites.—The action of all of these, whether employed as amyl nitrite, the nitrite of sodium, or nitroglycerine, is of the same nature, differing in dui-ation and intensity, however, according to the preparation used. When Amyl nitrite is inhaled sensation of ful- ness in the head is experienced, and the face and neck become turgescent. This is accompanied by a fall in blood pressure from dilatation of the peripheral arterioles, the heart at the same time becoming accelerated. Vaso-dilatation is due to a direct action on the unstriped muscle ; it extends to the vessels of the brain, splanchnic area, and limbs, while of the cutaneous vessels only those of that area over which blushing normally occur are affected. Apart from their effect on the vessels nitrites have no other important action. The respiration is quickened, and if large quantities of amyl nitrite be in- haled some of the oxyhgemoglobin of the blood is converted into methsemoglobin. Non-striped muscles generally are affected in a manner similar to, but less than that of, the vessel walls. Sodium and Potassium nitrite are not so powerful as amyl nitrite, but their effect is less transient. Nitroglycerine is more potent than the nitrite of sodium, and its effects persist for some time after administration. Erythrol tetranitrate has a more gradual and prolonged action, its maximum effect occurring after two or three hours. (27) Thyroid.—lodothyrin, the active prin- ciple of the thyroid gland, is found in the colloid part of the organ. It contains 9 per cent of iodine, as well as sulphur and phosphorus. Thyroid substance is a powerful stimulant to metabolism, causing loss of weight, increased intake of oxygen, and increased excretion of nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus. The tissue waste is due both to destruction of proteid and to oxidation of fat. Along with this the pulse becomes accelerated and the circulation en- feebled. The symptoms of thyroidism are rapid pulse and palpitation, tremors, perspiration, nausea, and sometimes diarrhoea, while the tem- perature may be slightly raised. On account of the dangers attendant on thyroidism, it is always essential to keep patients in bed during the earlier periods of administration, until it is ascertained what quantity of the drug is tolerated.460 PHARMACOLOGY (28) Formic acid, and the Jormates of sodium, ammonium, and potassium have recently been reintroduced into medicine on account of their musculo-tonic and diuretic properties. It is stated that formic acid increases fivefold the power of doing muscular work, and that it abolishes fatigue. The effect is said to be a lasting one, enduring for several days after the drug is taken. The plain muscles and the heart are affected similarly to the voluntary ones. The salts are eliminated in the urine as formates, and have a diuretic action. The dose of sodium formate is from 10 to 15 grains; of formic acid, from 15 to 20 minims. The efficacy of the drugs is still sub jiidice. According to Goodall's researches their only action on the frog's heart, on muscle curves, and on ergographic tracings, is depressant. Clinical observers, on the other hand, have observed rise of blood pressure follow their administration in cardiac disease, and subjectively, at least, they are useful as tonics in conditions of debility. Pharmacomania.—A morbid craving for drugs. PharmaCOpceia.—An official work con- taining an account of the medicines commonly used, with their methods of preparation and their doses; there is a British Pharmacopoeia and a Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America. Pharmacy. — The science and art of preparing crude drugs for use as medicines, and for dispensing the same for therapeutic purposes. Pharyng^eal or Pharyngo-.—Re- lating to the pharynx ; e.g. a pharyngeal abscess, the pharyngeal t07isil, pharyngoscopy, etc. See Pharynx. Pharyng^ectomy. — Excision of the pharynx. PharyngismUS. — Spasm of the pharynx. Pharyngitis. See Pharynx, Pharyn- gitis, Acute. PharyngOCeie.—The term designates a diverticidum fi'om the pharynx. Such a diverticulum or pouch is exceedingly uncommon. The orifice connecting it with the cavity of the pharynx is usually at the lowest part of the pharynx posteriorly, whilst the pouch lies be- hind the pharynx or oesophagus and is directed downwards backwards, and, as a rule, to the left side. Probably the most correct view as to the origin of such a pouch is that it is due to defective closure of a visceral cleft, this supposi- tion being more satisfactory than the view according to which pharyngeal pouches are not congenital but acquired, whether by pressure from within or by traction from without, as oesophageal pouches are. A pharyngocele being, therefore, regarded as congenital has a definite relationship to branchial cysts {vide "Neck," vol. vi.) and congenital pharyngeal fistulse. The pouch is at first of small size no doubt, but in the course of years becomes slowly though steadily enlarged by pressure of food within it, and the pouch as it enlarges gradually extends downwards. Its size varies greatly in different cases, and it is sometimes pedunculated (vide Brit. Med. Journ., 1901, I. 1204). Its wall is formed by layers representing the mucous and submucous membranes of the pharynx, whilst if the pouch is of small size there is usually a muscular layer also. Symptoms.—The patient, in the great majority of cases, yet not invariably, is of the male sex, and it is seldom before middle life that the pouch has attained sufficient size to have been detected or to have caused inconvenience. When large enough, however, to do so, the chief symptoms are either interference with deglutition or such as are due to pressure on the trachea, blood-vessels, or recurrent laryngeal nerves. At the same time there is a soft, more or less tympanitic, swelling on the left side of the neck at its upper part, and this swelling can be emptied by pressure, when the contents will pass into the mouth or oesophagus. The con- dition is most likely to be mistaken for a stricture of the oesophagus, the possibility of which can be excluded by the passage of a bougie into the stomach, and only in the event of the instrument entering the pouch is there any difficulty in diagnosis. The only possible treatment is the surgical removal of the pouch. Phary ngOiary ngit is. — Inflam- mation affecting both the pharynx and the larynx. PharyngOmyCOSiS. See Pharynx, Examination of (Pharyngomycosis). PharyngOtomy. — The operation of incision into the pharynx. See Larynx, Malig- nant Disease of (Treatment, Operative). PharyngOXerosiS. — Dryness of the pharynx. Pharynx.—This subject is considered in the following sections :— 1. Examination of, and Anaemia, Foreign Bodies, etc 461 2. Acute Pharyngitis .... 46-5 3. Chronic Pharyngitis and Chronic Infective Diseases 468 4. Retropharyngeal Abscess . 474 See also Actinomycosis {Mouth and Pharynx); Asphyxia {Causes); Brain, Physiology of {Motor Areas); Children, Clinical Examina-PHARYNX 461 TION OF {Mouth and Throat); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppubative Disease {Chronic Catarrh, Causes); Electrolysis {Angiomata of Pharynx); Glosso-pharyngbal Nerve ; Gout {Irregular, Alimentary System, Pharyngitis); Larynx, Malignant Disease of {Operative Treatment); Mumps {Symptoms, Pharyngitis) ; Neck, Region of {Cysts); Nose, Diseases of {Chronic Inflammation, Adenoid Gro^vths, etc.); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Alimentary Canal, Pharynx); Teeth {Alveolar Abscess, SequelcB); Tonsils, Diseases of ; Typhoid Fever {Symptoms and Complications). Examination of the Pharynx, etc. Examination of the Pharynx . .461 Pharyngeal Affections . . .461 Anemia ...... 461 HiEMORRHAGES . . . .461 Foreign Bodies . . . .462 Pharyngomycosis . . . .463 Neuroses ..... 463 The patient should be seated in a chair fitted with a head rest. A light is placed on his left side slightly behind him, and on a level with his eyes. During the examination the surgeon may stand, or be seated at the patient's right side, slightly in front of him, and facing in the opposite direction. By means of a forehead mirror, which is worn over the right eye, light is reflected into the patient's mouth. The patient is directed to keep the tongue as fiat as possible, while its tip lies behind the lower incisors, and to breathe quietly and regu- larly through the nose. The sides and middle of the tongue are then successively depressed by means of a suitable instrument—preferably Frankel's tongue-depressor. This simple procedure excites in some persons retching, so that a satisfactory view is unobtain- able. The following precautions should be taken in dealing with such patients:—The mouth should not be opened too widely ; the breathing should be shallow and regular; and the point of the tongue-depressor should not be placed too far back on the tongue. If these measures fail, the patient himself should try to use the tongue-depressor effectively. Turck's is the most suitable for this purpose. The exami- nation may be more successful at a subsequent visit after the patient's nervousness has passed off. The normal pharyngeal mucous membrane is pink and moist; there may, however, be con- siderable variations in both respects without any accompanying discomfort. On the other hand, a patient who is not neurotic may com- plain of "sore throat," although no abnormal appearance is discoverable. The colour is best observed on the soft palate and posterior wall. It should be noted that when the mouth is first opened the pharynx occasionally presents a marked vascular injection which passes off in a few seconds. Variations in the amount and character of the secretion are most manifest on the posterior wall. Excessive mucus or muco- pus, coming partly from the naso-pharynx, may be here seen sliding downwards. Undue dry- ness may, on the contrary, be the prominent feature, the secretion forming a thin varnish- like coating or a thick tough discoloured crust. Besides the colour of the soft palate, its mobility should be observed while the patient says " Ah ! " also its distance from the posterior wall. A glance should be taken at the length of the uviila. The size of the tonsils, their relations to the anterior and posterior faucial pillars, and the number and contents of their crypts should be studied. The condition of the lateral walls, especially as regards the presence of granulations, is to be noted. Lastly, the posterior wall claims attention with reference to its colour, secretion, the presence of small vas- cular twigs which show through the mucous membrane, or occasionally of a large pulsating prominence which is caused by a bend of the internal carotid. In examining this region it is important that the neck be not twisted, other- wise one half of the posterior wall (on the side towards which the patient faces) will be shallower than the other half, and by the uninitiated may be mistaken for an abnormal bulging, e.g. retropharyngeal abscess. The examination of the pharynx may be completed by pushing the tongue-depressor far back and causing the patient to retch ; in this way more of the pos- terior wall both above and below is brought into view, possibly also the epiglottis, while the lateral walls become prominent, and the tonsils partly escape from between the faucial pillars. Probing will be facilitated by painting or spray- ing the region to be examined with a cocaine solution (10 per cent). Children who cannot be coaxed to open the mouth may be forced to adopt buccal respiration by pinching the nose. If they still persist in clenching the teeth, the tongue-depressor should be introduced behind the last molars and the pharynx touched. Retching will be thus in- duced, and the mouth opened of necessity. Anemia.—In general anaemia the pharyngeal mucous membrane, especially that of the soft palate, appears unduly pale. The pallor in this region commonly observed in tuberculosis is probably only present after general anaemia has become established, and is therefore of no special diagnostic value. HiEMORRHAGES. — Pharyngeal haemorrhage may take place in the course of certain diseases in which the constitution of the blood or the vessel walls have undergone change, e.g. haemo- philia, purpura, leukaemia, scurvy; or which, by causing a general stasis, favour its occur- rence, e.g. emphysema, cardiac insufficiency, cirrhosis of the liver, granular kidney. On thePHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE 462 other hand, the bleeding may be of purely local origin, and due to operation, suppuration, or ulceration. Those with varicose veins at the base of the tongue, or on the posterior wall of the pharynx, are said to be liable to occasional slight haemorrhages, especially if they suffer from pharyngitis sicca, necessitating frequent hawking. Bleeding may also take place into the mucous membrane and produce ecchymosis, or even a heematoma, of which a few cases have been reported. The amount of blood lost may vary from a few drops to what proves fatal, as in the erosion of a large artery. The source of a moderate haemorrhage can usually be found at once. This is not so, however, when the bleeding is due to no known cause, and is scanty or has ceased. In cases of this kind the hsemorrhage, especially when recurrent, readily arouses suspicion of lung disease, and it is then necessary to satisfy the patient, or possibly an insurance company, as to the place of origin. The possibility of the bleeding being from the nose, naso-pharynx, or gums, shovdd be remembered. The ex- amination of the lungs, and the consideration of the patient's present and past state and family history, usually settle the question of haemoptysis. Occasionally, however, they prove negative, or merely afford gromids for surmise. It is then necessary to compare the features of a pharyngeal with those of a pulmonary haemorrhage. In doing so, weight must not be attached to the patient's sensations, which often lead him to the erroneous belief that the blood comes from the throat. In a pharyngeal haemorrhage the amount of blood expectorated must be scanty, otherwise the bleeding point will be discovered ; further, it is hawked, not coughed up. When from the lungs usually the sputum is liquid, florid, and frothy, the blood is intimately mixed with the mucus, and tubercular bacilli are present. If the blood is expectorated in thick or partially dry clots, it comes from the upper air tract, or has been present there for some time. The blood-stained spit that follows the detachment of crusts in pharyngitis sicca contains pavement epithelium. If blood is seen in the trachea, its source is almost certainly tliere or in the chest. Finally, it should be remembered that haemoptysis is of common occurrence, while pharyngeal haemor- rhage without an apparent cause is very rare ; both may, of course, co-exist. Indeed, a dia- gnosis of pharyngeal haemorrhage is scarcely justifiable unless the bleeding point has been seen, or haemorrhage produced by touching the suspected spot. Slight bleedings may be checked by allowing pieces of ice to melt in the mouth, or by apply- ing to the bleeding ai'ea hydrogen peroxide, liq. ferr. perchlor. or a mixture of tannic (3 parts) and gallic (1 part) acids, made into a hard paste with a little water [Hovell). For bleeding gums, a gargle of chlorate of potash or of iron alum, or the direct application of lunar caustic will prove effectual. If the source is a varicose vessel the affected portion is best destroyed by the galvano-cautery point. When the haemorrhage is profuse, tampons saturated with a styptic should be firmly pressed over the bleeding area. Ligature of the carotid artery has even been found necessary. Haematomata call for treatment only when their size causes inconvenience; they should then be evacuated. Foreign Bodies.—A great variety of foreign bodies has been found in the pharynx. The most frequently occurring are those that have been introduced with the food, e.g. fish bones, spicules of rabbit bones; leeches and worms also have been sucked in while drinking from pools. The food itself may constitute a foreign body, as when a large piece of meat " sticks in the throat." Objects held in the mouth may fall, or be inadvertently drawn backwards, e.g. false teeth, pins, needles, pieces of pipe stem. Lastly, articles of all sorts have become lodged in the throats of children and lunatics by accident or design. Diminished sensibility of the pharyngeal mucous membrane and paresis of the con- strictors favour the lodgment of extraneous substances. When the foreign body is large it usually becomes impacted about the upper end of the oesophagus, in one of the pyriform sinuses, or between the epiglottis and tongue. If sharp and fine, it may enter the mucous membrane at any point; the tonsils, faucial and lingual, are, however, the favourite resting places, and it- is from these that fish bones are oftenest found to project. A foreign body may be present without the patient's knowledge, but it commonly pro- duces irritation or obstruction. When sharp, a pricking sensation is usually experienced, which may be followed by acute inflammation, swelling, and abscess. On the other hand, the object may be of such a size as to cause inability to swallow, dyspnosa, and even suffocation. The diagnosis, as a rule, is easily made on examining the parts, if need be, with the laryngoscope; when inspection fails, palpation may succeed. Occasionally the X-rays will assist. If no indication of a foreign body can be found, the symptoms may be due to injury caused by one which is no longer present, or may be neurotic in origin {see Paraesthesia of the Pharynx). In the majority of cases the symptoms quickly pass off on removal of the extraneousPHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE 463 substance. Hysterical and neurasthenic patients may, however, complain of a soreness for months afterwards. The possibility of the presence of a second foreign body must not be overlooked. A dangerous issue is uncommon, but deaths have occurred from suffocation, and from per- foration of the large arteries. A foreign body long retained in a tonsillar crypt may become encrusted with mineral salts and form a calculus (tonsillith). The treatment consists in removing the foreign body as soon as possible. This can usually be effected by means of suitable forceps. If suffocation is imminent, it may be necessary to perform tracheotomy in the first place. Pharyngomycosis. — Keratosis pharyngis. — The disease commonly but incorrectly termed " pharyngo-mycosis" is characterised by the presence of small, isolated, tough, firmly ad- herent white excrescences on the healthy mucous membrane. The excrescences may ap- pear as points, tiny patches, or elongated out- growths, attaining a length of from 2 to 10 mm. They can usually be torn off only with difficulty, and one of the most striking features of the disease is the rapidity and persistence with which they recur after removal. The excrescences are most commonly found on the faucial tonsils and at the base of the tongue; much less frequently on the lateral parts of the pharyngeal wall and in the naso- pharynx. In a few cases they have been ob- served on the epiglottis, in the larynx {Gray), and nose (Wright). The subjects of this disease are usually between fifteen and forty years of age ; females are affected oftener than males. It is doubtful whether digestive or other constitutional dis- turbances predispose. A few small excrescences may occasion no symptoms. When prominent, however, they may give rise to a feeling of discomfort or irri- tation, which in turn may cause hawking and coughing. The patient's temperament also plays a part, so that the symptoms do not always bear a direct relation to the morbid appearances. The general health, as a rule, is unaffected. If one of the excrescences be examined, the surface is found to be soft, while the central part is tough and firm. Microscopically, the soft substance is seen to consist of a granular material, scattered through which are numerous leptothrix filaments, while the central part is made up of closely-packed cornified epithelial cells. The abundance of the leptothrix led the earlier investigators to believe that the disease was due to the presence of this saprophyte. The affection consequently was believed to be a mycosis; hence the names—mycosis tonsillaris benigna {B. Frankel), pharyngomycosis lepto- thricia {Heryng). Recently, however, Sieben- mann has shown that the excrescences are due to an excessive cornification of the lacunar epithelium, and as a slighter form of this pro- cess goes on in the tonsillar crypts very fre- quently, he terms the condition " hyperkeratosis lacunaris." Brown Kelly subsequently adduced further proofs in support of Siebenmann's state- ments, and pointed out that, while the disease under consideration is a keratosis, a true mycosis leptothricia is occasionally observed in the pharynx. When keratosis pharyngis is well developed the diagnosis is easy. If only a few small excrescences are present on the tonsils, they may be taken for the deposits of chronic lacunar tonsillitis, which is commonly associated with keratosis. These deposits, however, are flis- tinguished by being soft, readily pressed out, and foul smelling. The disease, after persisting for a varying period, sometimes for years, may pass off spon- taneously. If little or no inconvenience arises from the excrescences, it usually suffices to explain their harmless nature to the patient. On the other hand, if they are causing discomfort or mental disquietude their removal should be undertaken. Many medicinal agents—e.g. salicylic acid, zinc chloride, and iodine preparations—have been employed for this purpose, but as a rule nothing short of the tedious process of picking off each excrescence and cauterising its site has succeeded in eradicating the disease. Neuroses of Sensation. — Anaesthesia and Hypcesthesia.—Complete or partial loss of sensa- tion, due to involvement of the glosso-pharyn- geal and vagus, may be of central or peripheral origin. The chief central lesions are haemor- rhages, tumours, gummata, tabes, bulbar para- lysis, syringomyelia, multiple sclerosis, and pseudo-bulbar paralysis. The conditions that may affect the nerves peripherally are diph- theria, various local inflammations, influenza, typhus, cholera, and pneumonia. Anaesthesia is not infrequently associated with hysteria, and is present in some cases of epilepsy for a short time after the seizure. In anaemia and in old age diminished sensibility is occasionally detected. Transient anaesthesia or hypaesthesia may also be artificially produced by cocaine, eucaine, menthol, ethyl chloride, ice, morphia, bromides, chloral, etc. Anaesthesia may be partial (hypaesthesia) or complete, unilateral or bilateral, confined to the soft palate, or affecting the entire pharynx. If partial and limited, it may escape the patient's notice. If marked and extensive, de- glutition will be incommoded by the inability to feel the bolus of food in the throat, and if anaesthesia of the larynx is also present, portions may enter it. The extent and degree of the neurosis may be estimated by use of the probe.PHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE 464 Occasionally anaesthesia is associated with pain- ful sensations—anaesthesia dolorosa. The treatment will depend upon the cause. When there is danger of the food entering the larynx the patient should be fed by means of an oesophageal tube passed below the cricoid cartilage. Hypercesthesia. — Abnormal sensitiveness of the j^harynx is commonly associated with tu- berculosis, gout, hysteria, alcoholism, elongated uvula, and conditions producing local conges- tion. The hyperajsthesia reveals itself when manipulations are carried out in the throat, and by the readiness with which slight irritation in this region excites reflex disturbances, e.g. coughing, retching. No treatment is called for unless the condi- tion prove a hindrance to the examination of other parts, e.g. larynx, naso-pharynx. Recourse should then be had to cocaine, ice, and the education of the patient to tolerate the in- struments. Parcesthesia.—A great variety of abnormal sensations, unaccompanied by apparent patho- logical changes, may be experienced in the pharynx. Complaint may be made of prickling, smarting, rawness, dryness, heat, swelling, of the feeling of sand, a pin, hair, bone, or ball. The subjects are usually neurotic, hypo- chondriacal, anaemic or dyspeptic, and women about the climacteric period, and those suffering from uterine affections, seem specially prone to this disorder. Frequently they imagine that the symptoms are due to cancer or phthisis. They are constantly examining their throats, and usually find "ulcers," "growths," or other non-existent alarming conditions. They de- scribe their sensations with an air of self-con- viction and elaboration of detail that bewilder one unacquainted with such ailments. Before a diagnosis of parsesthesia is warranted all the possible sources of the abnormal sensa- tions experienced must be considered. Thus, the less intelligent hospital patients frequently complain of soreness and burning in the throat when their symptoms are purely of gastric oi'igin ; recurrent attacks of " sore throat " un- accompanied by local manifestations may be found to be of a rheumatic nature ; a feeling of irritation in an apparently normal pharynx is often associated with more or less nasal ob- struction. All such conditions must be excluded. It is also necessary to take into account the general health and temperament of the patient: e.g. ansemic and neurotic patients may complain of pharyngeal irritation which is traceable to a tiny granulation; of difficulty in swallowing, which is apparently due to a slightly enlarged lingual tonsil; or of soreness in the region from which a fish bone was removed days or weeks before: all of these conditions, experience has taught us, rarely cause symptoms in healthy individuals. Keeping in view these facts, a thorough ex- amination of the upper air tract must be made to discover, if possible, a local cause. In this search too much reliance must not be placed upon the patient's opinion as to the seat of origin of the symptoms, because sensations arising in the posterior wall of the pharynx may be referred to the region of the larynx, while others springing from the lateral parts of the pharynx may be felt in the corresponding ear. The tonsillar crypts and supra-tonsillar fossa should be examined for caseous collections, the lateral and posterior pharyngeal walls for granu- lations, the base of the tongue for enlarged lymphoid masses, as well as the naso-pharynx, nose, and larynx. The sensibility of the mucous membrane may be tested, but is found, as a rule, not heightened. In the absence of any discoverable cause, a diagnosis of partesthesia is justifiable. As our knowledge of disease advances, the class of parsesthesias will gradually be reduced; in the meantime, the more careful the consideration and examination of our cases, the fewer will it be necessary to relegate to this category. An assurance that the ailment is not serious sometimes in itself causes no further heed to be paid to the symptoms. Usually, however, a prolonged course of treatment suitable to the patient's bodily and mental requirements is demanded. The affection may be very tedious, but ultimately the discomfort passes off or ceases to worry. The use of sedative paints, sprays, or lozenges affords only temporary relief ; the patient, how- ever, may be dissatisfied if local measures are not employed. The galvano-cautery is some- times useful for its psychical influence. Ab- normal sensations caused by caseous tonsillitis, granular pharyngitis, etc., are not true parses- thesias, but symptoms of these diseases which should be treated secundum artem. Neuralgia.—This affection is not often met with. The patient complains of severe remittent pain in the pharynx. Examination may fail to reveal a morbid process to account for the symptoms, or they may be traceable to an in- significant lesion. In either case the neuralgia is almost invariably the local expression of a general dyscrasia, and what has been stated in regard to the subjects of parsesthesia applies here. The treatment should be mainly directed to the correction of the constitutional disturbance. If a pharyngeal aftection is found associated with the symptoms, it should be treated ac- cording to its requirements ; if not, local sedative applications may be tried, e.g. cocaine 5 to 10 per cent, but only for a short time, menthol 10 per cent, antipyrin 30 per cent, tincture of aconite, etc. Neuroses of Motion.—Spasm.—Tonic spasm of the pharyngeal muscles is commonly observed when the mucous membrane of the throat is465 PHARYNX, EXAMINATION OF THE suddenly irritated by the presence of something hard and rough in the food. Local inflamma- tory conditions and hysteria may be predisposing causes. In some individuals, especially neurotic females, the spasms may be readily excited and of frequent occurrence, and, coming on without warning, may cause the sudden ejection of food from the mouth, or retching until the source of irritation is removed. The condition is thus an annoyance to the patient and her friends. She may in consequence be compelled to masticate with undue care, to avoid certain articles of diet, and even to eat alone. Clonic spasm of the palate, or pharyngeal nystagmus, is a rare affection in which, at vary- ing intervals, the soft palate is rhythmically drawn upwards against the pharyngeal wall and then relaxed. This movement is due chiefly to the action of the levator palati, and causes a clicking sound. It may occur as often as a hundred and sixty times a minute {Pppenheim). Bond records a case in which the back of the pharynx moved rhythmically to the left, and the left side of the soft palate was drawn up. In a case of Seifert's there were in addi- tion similar movements of the facial muscles. Spencer has seen nystagmus-like movements of the pharynx and larynx associated with nystagmus of the eyes. Lack places cases of this nature in two groups:—1. Those in which the soft palate is aff'ected, the movements being apparently excited reflexly. 2. Those in which the pharyngeal and laryngeal movements are presumably due to severe nervous lesions. The treatment of these spasmodic contractions resolves itself into the removal of all sources of irritation in the upper air tract, e.g. nasal obstruction, hypertrophic pharyngitis, etc. A condition as nearly normal as possible having been established, hygienic and dietetic measures, together with nervine tonics and sedatives, e.g. valerianates, or ammonio-citrate of iron with bromides, should be employed, while the patient exercises the volition to control the abnormal movements. Paralysis of the Soft Palate.—Diseases involv- ing the root or trunk of the spinal accessory may affect the innervation of the soft palate. When of central origin, neighbouring nuclei may be implicated, so that the palatal condition may be accompanied by defective movements in the tongue, larynx, sterno-mastoid, and trapezius. Paralysis of the palate alone is almost always due to diphtheria. Bosworth holds, however, that this paralysis does not necessarily follow a local affection, but may result from a general blood condition; while Garel has described an intermittent paresis which he attributes to neurasthenia. The paralysis may be unilateral or bilateral. When complete, the symptoms are charactei'istic. The speech is nasal and open (rhinolalia aperta). Food is apt to pass into the nose, and liquids VOL. VII may flow through it. It is doubtful whether this symptom is not due to a concurrent paralysis of the superior constrictor. The soft palate is found on examination to remain motionless during phonation and when probed. If the paralysis is unilateral the affected half hangs lower, the corresponding faucial arch is wider and less curved, the tip of the uvula may incline to the sound side, and on phonation the deficient movement of the paralysed half is strikingly apparent. Paralysis of the constrictors is often associated with that of the soft palate. The former con- dition is recognised by the absence of wrinkling of the mucous membrane on one or both halves of the posterior wall of the pharynx during retching. Food tends to pass into the nose, and, if the lower pharynx is involved, becomes lodged about the epiglottis. If due to a central lesion, the treatment will depend upon its nature. If diphtheritic, good results may be obtained by the local application of the Faradic current, together with strychnine, hypophosphites, or iron internally. Acute Pharyngitis A. Acute Pharyngitis— Definition .... . 465 Etiology ..... . 465 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . 466 Symptoms .... . 466 Prognosis .... . 466 Treatment .... . 466 Septic Inflammations . 467 Symj)toms .... . 467 Diagnosis .... . 467 Prognosis .... . 468 Treatment .... . 468 Herpes of Pharynx . . 468 Definition.—An acute inflammatory affection of the pharynx, in which the fauces, soft palate, and neighbouring regions are generally more or less involved. Etiology.—Four causes of acute pharyngitis may be recognised. 1. Idiopathic, resulting from exposure to cold, or sudden changes of temperature. As epidemics of the affection sometimes occur, associated with tonsillitis and constitutional symptoms, it is highly probable that a micro- bial element is the real exciting cause. 2. Toxic, " dependent on gouty or rheumatic conditions, or the action of various drugs, e.g. antimony, mercury, iodide of potash, and the sympathetic pharyngitis of various exanthemata, such as measles, smallpox, scarlatina, typhoid and typhus fever" (W. Williams). To these may be added the acute pharyngitis seen as an early syphilitic manifestation. 3. Septic, including erysipelas of the pharynx, "hospital throat," acute phlegmon, etc. 4. Traumatic, resulting from injury from 30466 PHARYNX—ACUTE PHARYNGITIS a foreign body, scalds, and inhalation of irritating vapours. Among important predisposing causes must be included chronic nasal obstruction, the rheumatic and gouty diathesis, and sedentary occupations, especially when these are carried on in insanitary surroundings. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology. — The mucous membrane of the pharynx and sur- rounding parts are at first swollen and hypertemic, and the secretion is scanty and viscid. The degree of hyperfemia varies from a bright red in the idiopathic cases to the livid red met with in scarlet fever or erysipelas of the pharynx. The swelling of the inflamed tissues may be slight, or so well marked that the uvula becomes enlarged to many times its natural size. The tonsils are usually inflamed, and may be punctated with the yellowish accumulations characteristic of lacunar tonsillitis. The inflammation generally tends to spread to the larynx, less commonly to the naso- pharynx and nasal cavities. Acute pharyngitis may be secondary to acute rhinitis, resulting from simple extension of the catarrh by means of the naso-pharyngeal mucous membrane. Symptoms.—The milder cases rarely come under medical treatment. In those of greater severity the symptoms are both general and local. Among the former are malaise, feelings of chilliness, and general aching of the limbs and muscles. The temperature may be raised to 100° or 101°, the tongue furred, and bowels constipated. Locally, the throat feels hot, dry, and sore, and there is a frequent desire to swallow. If the uvula be much swollen, an irritating cough, and the feeling as if a foreign body was present in the throat, may be complained of. On in- spection, the pharynx, fauces, tonsils, and uvula are seen to be red and swollen, and covered by a viscid secretion, which becomes freer some twelve hours or so after the commencement of the inflammation. If the latter spreads to the larynx and trachea, there will be some hoarseness, and possibly a troublesome cough. A few days later a muco-purulent expectoration may indicate the extension of the catarrh to the larger bronchial tubes. When the naso-pharynx is afffected there will be greatly increased secretion, possibly slight deafness, earache, or tinnitus, from involvement of the Eustachian tubes. Symptoms of nasal catarrh {vide "Acute Rhinitis") will charac- terise the spread of inflammation to the nasal cavities. In certain of the acute exanthemata the constitutional symptoms soon overshadow the throat lesions ; h\it the latter are of importance, because they may be among the earliest mani- festations of the graver malady. Moreover, in scarlet fever the pharyngeal inflammation may form one of the most serious complications of the disease. In acute traumatic pharyngitis the inflam- mation is at first mainly limited to the site of injury. From thence, however, it may rapidly spread, especially if septic organisms gain access to the tissues through a broken surface. The septic varieties of acute pharyngitis will, on account of their importance, be dealt with separately. Prognosis.—In simple cases this is nearly always good; but a guarded prognosis should always be given in the case of children, because pharyngeal inflammation is often an early symptom of one of the acute exanthemata. In adults, the possibility of the inflammation being an early syphilitic manifestation should always be borne in mind. Treatment.—As a general rule it is well to give a saline aperient during the early stages of an attack. When this is severe the patient should remain indoors, in a well-ventilated room, at a temperature of about 65°. The diet should be light, while iced milk, milk and soda- water, lemonade, barley-water, etc., may be freely drunk. Sucking pellets of ice will often relieve local discomfort. Medicinally, 10 grains of " Dover's " powder, followed by a hot drink, is useful at the com- mencement of an attack, especially when the latter is associated with symptoms of acute nasal catarrh. If rheumatic symptoms be present, salicylate of soda may be combined with a diaphoretic mixture, e.g. R sod. salicyl. gr. x, liq. ammon. acetat. 3iij, spir. setheris nitros rrixx, aq. camph. ad sj. Sig. : to be taken every four hours until the pains are relieved. In this con- nection the guaiacum lozenges of the Throat Hospital Pharmacopoeia are useful. In cases where a gouty element is present free purgation, a light, unstimulating diet, followed by internal administration of alkalies and colchicum, will be appropriate treatment. When the inflammation spreads to the larynx and trachea the following inhalation will give relief to the cough and local discomfort: R 01. eucalyp., ol. pini sylvest. ad 3j, mag. carb. lev. 3j, aq. camph. concentr. §j, aq. ad giv. Sig. : The vapour arising from half a pint of water at 150° F., to which sss of the above mixture has been added, to be inhaled every two hours. This may be accompanied by hot fomenta- tions over the upper part of the windpipe and chest. The sucking of pastilles containing borax, chlorate of potash, and cocaine will assist in removing the viscid mucus from the pharynx, and at the same time relieve some of the local discomfort. CEdema of the uvula, if slight, requires no special treatment; when it is ex-PHARYNX—ACUTE PHARYNGITIS 467 cessive much relief may be afforded by making a few punctures with a fine scalpel, followed by the frequent use of warm alkaline gargle. When the acute attack has subsided, the administration of quinine and iron, the hypo- phosphites or other tonics, and the local use of an astringent gargle, e.g. Borax grs. xxiv, glycerine irixx, tr. myrrh nxxxiv, water to §j ; or even a daily gargle of salt water, 3ss to half a pint, will do much to hasten convalescence and promote a healthy condition of the pharyn- geal mucous membrane. B. Acute Septic Inflammations op the Pharynx.—From clinical and bacteriological evidence Semon (and in this he was ably supported by the late Professor Kanthack) regards the various forms of acute septic inflam- mation of the throat, e.g. "hospital sore throat," acute oedema of the larynx and pharynx, phleg- mon and erysipelas of these parts, and submaxil- lary cellulitis (Ludwig's angina), as identical pathological processes, varying only in their degree of virulence. While the streptococcus pyogenes is the organism most often associated with these acute septic inflammations, clinical evidence has been adduced to show that iden- tical pathological conditions may occasionally be produced by the staphylococcus pyogenes, micrococcus tenius, and various forms of bacilli. Acute septic inflammation of the throat may be primary or secondary. In the former it is probable that the organisms gain access to the tissues through some breach of the surface epithelium of the pharynx, fauces, or tonsils. In the second category the disease may spread inwards from the face or nose, and possibly arise in some cases from the pharyngeal tonsil. In yet other instances the acute inflammation may start beneath the deep cervical fascia of the submaxillary region (Ludwig's angina), and secondarily infect the pharynx and larynx. In such a case the primary inflammation may arise from cold; it is also said to occur in epidemics, as an extension from the inflamed glands of scarlet fever, or the poison may gain access by means of a wound or through a carious tooth. The disease is most common in alcoholics. Pathology.—The inflammation of the sub- mucous tissue varies much in intensity in the different forms of acute septic inflammation of the throat, and the resulting exudation may be serous, purulent, or even gangrenous. While the inflammation may remain limited to the pharynx, it usually tends to spread to the larynx, and less commonly to the naso- pharynx. The relation between such inflammations and the associated micro-organisms has already been referred to, but it may be pointed out that, as a general rule, streptococcal infection is more acute and virulent than that produced by the other pathogenetic organisms mentioned above. Symptoms.—In the milder forms of septic pharyngitis, beyond the local discomfort, slight fever, headache, and constitutional depression, there is little to cause anxiety. In the severer forms the disease may be ushered in by chills or rigors, a high tempera- ture (102° to 106°), and a general feeling of malaise. The pulse, at first full and strong, soon becomes more frequent and feeble, while the general prostration of the patient affords a good index of the evil effects of septic absorption upon the system. At the onset of the disease the temperature is usually high, but it then follows an atypical course, varying with the virulence of the poison and the degree of its absorption. The urine frequently contains sugar, and albumen is occasionally present. In all forms of the disease pain in the throat and dysphagia are early and well-marked symptoms. These are soon followed by a weak voice and difficulty of breathing, owing to the swelling of the pharyngeal and neighbouring mucous membranes. The fauces, uvula, and pharyngeal mucous membranes are deeply congested and swollen; the tonsils are red, swollen, and acutely inflamed. The submaxillary cervical glands are always swollen and tender. As a rule the inflamma- tion does not long remain localised to the pharynx, but passes downwards to the larynx, inducing, in addition to the symptoms already enumerated, a croupy cough, marked dyspnoea, aud pain in and around the larynx. If the tongue be firmly depressed, or a laryn- goscopic examination be made, the epiglottis, aryepiglottic folds, and the arytenoid region will be seen to be swollen, red, and oedematous. This swelling may increase with such rapidity, and the dyspnoea become so urgent, that the patient's life may at any moment be in im- minent peril from asphyxia. The dyspnoea is mainly inspiratory, because the inflammatory swelling is limited to the mucous membranes situated above the level of the vocal cords. Such cases may, however, recover, especially when suppuration does not occur; the advent of the latter always renders the disease a very serious one, and especially so in those instances where the suppurative process is limited to the pharynx (Senator's phlegmon). Under such circumstances a gangrenous slough may form in the submucous tissues, and severe toxaemia rapidly supervene. Sometimes the inflammation, serous or sup- purative, spreads beyond the larynx to the tissues of the neck, inducing much swelling thereof, while evidences of pneumonia, peri- carditis, pleurisy, peritonitis, or meningitis would indicate a more general infection of the system by the locally generated poison. Diagnosis.—The sudden onset of the disease, the rapid spread of the inflammation, livid ft468 PHARYNX—ACUTE PHARYNGITIS redness of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, lowered vitality of the patient, tendency to dyspnoea, swelling of the cervical tissues, and the frequent presence of sugar in the urine, or albuminuria, are symptoms which leave little doubt as to the real nature of the disease. The discovery of the streptococctis erysipelatosus in the inflamed areas will place the diagnosis beyond doubt {vide " Morbid Anatomy"). Prognosis.—This is always serious, except in the mildest cases, e.g. hospital sore throat. Death may unexpectedly occur, not only from asphyxia, but from cardiac failure, or less com- monly from pulmonary, meningeal, or other complications. Generally speaking, in a patient who is going to recover, the inflammatory symptoms quickly reach their height and rapidly subside. Treatment.—The patient is, of course, confined to bed; the bowels should be opened by a castor-oil or saline aperient, an ice-collar applied to the neck, and he should have pellets of ice to suck. Every efibrt must be made to support the system, and to this end liquid nourishment such as beef-tea, beaten-up eggs, and milk, should be administered hourly. If swallowing be painful, nutrient enemata should supplement food taken by the mouth. Cardiac depression must be combated by free administration of brandy, iced champagne, and full doses of strychnia. Semon speaks highly of oxygen inhalations in this connection. Judging from the favourable residts following the use of anti- streptococci serum in cutaneous erysipelas, it should be tried in the disease under considera- tion; 10 cc. should be injected with the same precautions as are taken with the anti-diphther- itic serum, and the dose may be repeated in twenty-four hours if necessary. Medicinally, the tincture of the perchloride of iron in full doses, combined with quinine, should be given every three or four hours. Salicylate of ammonium, in 20-grain doses every three hours, is especially useful when a high temperature is associated with delirium or cerebral complications. Sprays of cocaine (15 per cent) to the pharynx and larynx will somewhat relieve the pain and congestion, and will aid in preventing spasm of the larynx. Urgent dyspnoea which does not yield im- mediately to the application of 20 per cent cocaine must be dealt with by free scarification with a laryngeal lancet or a curved bistoury, shielded to within an inch of its point. Ener- getic counter-irritation by means of sinapisms applied to the throat, chest, back, and shoulder- blades should be tried, since its adoption has certainly seemed successful in reducing the pharyngeal inflammation in some cases. Failing with these measures, laryngotomy or tracheotomy is imperative, and should not be delayed until the patient is semi-asphyxiated or in extremis. Intubation would be useless in most cases, because of the swelling of the pharyngeal and epiglottic mucous membranes above the larynx. For the treatment of angina Ludovici, which may lead to pharyngeal and laryngeal symptoms identical with those above described, see article "Cellulitis." C. Herpes of the Pharynx.—This is met with as an eruption of small vesicles upon the pharynx and neighbouring parts, especially the fauces and soft palate. The pharyngeal mucosa is usually swollen and hypersemic, and the small vesicles soon burst, leaving minute ulcers with a yellowish floor, surrounded by a bright red, well-defined margin. The onset of the disease is characterised by febrile symptoms and malaise, while the throat is sore and there is great pain on swallowing. The treatment should be that laid down for cases of acute idiopathic pharyngitis. An iced spray of one-third per cent watery solution of ichthyol every quarter of an hour will quickly reduce the inflammation in this as in many other forms of acute laryngeal and pharyngeal inflammations. Chronic Pharyngitis Definition.—A chronic morbid process resulting in hypertrophy or atrophy, and involving in a greater or less degree all structures in the mucous membrane lining the naso- and oro- pharynx, the process being pathologically and clinically distinct from that of acute pharyngitis. For clinical convenience chronic pharyngitis is spoken of as Simple chronic catarrhal phar- yngitis., Hypertrophic pharyngitis or Granular pharyngitis, Pharyngitis sicca or Atrophic p)har- yngitis. The incidence of the disease may be upon the sides of the pharynx, pharyngitis later- alis, and may extend to the Eustachian tubes. The uvula and soft palate, as well as the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces, and the tonsils are not uncommonly also aff'ected. From a pathological standpoint, as will presently be explained, these varieties really represent only diff"erent phases of one and the same disease ; for clinical purposes the terms in vogue may usefully be retained so long as they do not lead to confusion. Etiology.—It is a disputed point whether chronic pharyngitis is to be regarded as the result of one or more attacks of acute inflam- mation of this region. From a study of the clinical histories of a large number of cases, I am inclined to think that the morbid process is not an acute inflammatory one at the first, but that the process is insidious in its onset and progressive in its character. Its course is usually marked by repeated attacks of acute catarrhal sore throats, which are exacerbations of, and not the cause of chronic pharyngitis. Moreover, a primary acute inflammatoryPHARYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS 469 condition of the pharynx, apart from the mani- festations of the exanthemata, such as measles, scarlet fever, smallpox, typhoid and typhus fever as well as syphilis, and also apart from catarrhal conditions occasioned by traumatic and toxic influences, is a very rare condition, and, therefore, can hardly be held responsible for the lesions in this region grouped under the term " Chronic Pharyngitis," which are of such common occurrence. Although it is not the intention in this article to discuss acute pharyngitis, it seems necessary to the writer to make this preliminary reference to it, inasmuch as the acute and chronic con- dition has come to be, in his opinion, erroneously placed in a causal relationship, whereas, in a very large majority of cases, acute pharyngitis is merely a lighting up of a chronic morbid process. In order to understand the etiology of chronic pharyngitis with a view to the treatment of the affection, it is important to bear in mind that although the oro-pharynx cannot be readily separated from the naso-pharynx, the former is really part of the alimentary canal, and the latter part of the respiratory tract. Speaking generally, when the stress of the affection is mostly upon the oro-pharynx, it is not uncom- monly a manifestation of gastric disturbance, whereas, if the upper part of the pharynx is mainly involved, a cause may be found in the nasal cavities; at times the condition may be an extension by continuity from disease of neighbouring structures, such as the tonsils. Indiscretions in diet, excessive use of alcohol and tobacco, and of irritating articles of food, such as condiments, must be mentioned amongst the foremost causes of chronic pharyngitis. At the same time, it would be erroneous to sup- pose that the pharyngeal mucous membrane becomes affected by the direct application of alcohol and irritating articles of food; the his- tory usually points to a gastritis existing before the pharyngitis is developed, the latter being really evidence of the former. So also in the case of excessive tobacco-smoking, it is probable that the pharyngitis is secondary to the absorp- tion of nicotine, and is subsequently aggravated by a continuance of the excess. Constipation, cardiac disease, general excesses, and all conditions giving rise to venous con- gestion, are predisposing causes of chronic pharyngitis. When the disease affects the upper pharynx, it is not imcommonly associated with a chronic naso-pharyngeal catarrh, and is indirectly due to some form of obstruction in the nasal passages. The extension of the process to the lower pharynx is probably due quite as much to the constant hawking by the patient, in his endeavour to get rid of an accumulation of mucus or muco-pus, which owing to its tenacious character is dislodged with difficulty, as it is to secretion tracking over the mucous membrane. In pharyngitis sicca the atrophied condition of the pharyngeal mucosa probably has a cause in common with a similar condition met with in the nose, and with which it is often associated. The dried and adherent secretion acts directly as a cause in the localised pharyngitis. Any form of nasal obstruction, which necessi- tates mouth breathing, is indirectly a factor in chronic pharyngitis, occurring in persons ex- posed to an atmosphere charged with dust and irritating particles. Dental caries of an extensive and active nature is so commonly met with in examining throats that it is difficult to assess its import- ance in the etiology of chronic pharyngitis. When the two have been associated to a marked degree, nasal obstruction with mouth breathing has also been present, and I am inclined to look upon the latter as a causation factor common to the two. Excessive use of the voice is commonly stated to be one of the causes of this disease, and is put forward as an explanation of the hyper- trophic variety met with amongst professional voice users. It is difficult to accept this ex- planation ; the paralytic state of the pharyngeal muscles resulting from a pharyngitis already established, impairs the use of the pharynx as a resonance chamber, and in order that the walls of the pharynx may be adjusted to carry the voice to a distance a strain is necessitated. It would, therefore, seem that, on the contrary, chronic pharyngitis may be a cause of excessive use of the voice, and that the latter does not produce bvit only aggravates the former. Improper iise of the voice, on the other hand, may lead to chronic changes in the walls of the pharynx. But in estimating or treating faulty voice production as a cause, we must not overlook the fact that professional voice users are exposed to vitiated atmospheres, late hours, and irregularities in diet, and that physiological transgressions are often as much responsible as transgressions of natural limits of normal registers of voice. Certain diatheses, such as that of scrofula, antemia, tuberculosis, syphilis, are usually men- tioned in discussing the etiology; I am inclined to think that these causes, as well as the arthritic diatheses, play a less important part in the disease than is commonly believed. Diabetes and myxoedema have both been brought under my notice by the pharyngeal conditions complicating these diseases. The most marked case of pharyngitis sicca I have seen occurred in a diabetic who sought relief solely for the disease of the throat. The atrophied and dried condition of the mucous membrane completely involved the entire pharynx, and extended over the mucous mem- brane of the posterior third of the larynx. In470 PHARYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS pharyngitis sicca of an extensive nature it is as well to examine the urine for sugar. In myxoedema the mucous membrane of the pharynx and adjacent soft parts may become thickened and oedematous, and give rise to symptoms of chronic pharyngitis which bring the patient to the throat clinic. Pathology.—In sections taken from the less advanced cases, the prominent change met with is a proliferation and dilation of the blood- vessels beneath the mucous membrane; the hypersemia is distinct from that met with in acute pharyngitis, inasmuch as it is less intense and less diifuse. Owing to this local hyper- nutrition an increase of the lymphadenoid tissue of the mucosa takes place, and thickening results. A hyperplasia of the connective tissue also occurs, and is a factor in the increase of the mucous membrane, more particularly about the pillars and recesses of the fauces, and the lateral wall of the pharynx, giving rise to the condition known as pharyngitis lateralis. A more or less dense small cell proliferation ac- companies this form of hyperplastic fibrous tissue, and may extend into the deeper layer amongst the muscle fibres, and so be a factor in the impaired mobility and accommodation of the pharyngeal muscles for vocal purposes. In other sections from the same pharynx atro- phic patches are met with in which the lymph- adenoid tissue is reduced in amount, and the connective tissue is also atrophied. Various changes are met with in the epithe- lium. This in places may be thinned, or even ulcerated over congregations of lymphadenoid tissue, and in other places it may be thickened, giving rise to white patches. The follicles may iindergo caseous degeneration (follicular pharyngitis) and give rise to minute follicular ulceration. General Symptomatology.—It is interesting to note that in the larynx gross changes, such as paralysis of a cord or a new growth, may develop and exist for some time without giving rise to any symptoms, and perhaps only acci- dentally be detected; whereas a comparatively slight lesion in the pharynx will cause a patient to seek relief at a time, perhaps, when the departure from the normal may be so slight as to escape notice at a superficial examination. The symptom usvially complained of is dis- comfort, or an unpleasant sensation in the throat. This is variously described as a sense of a foreign substance necessitating a constant clearing, or inability to clear the throat, and irritating cough. At times the discomfort is spoken of as an aching or dragging sensation, which may be referred to a level as low as the interclavicular notch. The discomfort seldom amounts to pain, but pain of a shooting character passing up to the ears may be com- plained of. In the hypertrophic form, with much secretion of mucus, a soreness in the throat is experienced; if the atrophic condition predominates a dryness is mentioned. These symptoms are usually more marked on rising and after prolonged use of the voice. At times a sense of impending suffocation in sleep may be the cause of treatment being sought. The subjects of chronic pharyngitis have not uncommonly experienced symptoms for some time when they come under observation. The one symptom above all others which decides the sufferer to seek relief is impairment of vocal power: it may be hoarseness, or it may not amoimt to more than weakness or un- certainty of voice. During the more acute exacerbations dysphagia may be present. The Objective Evidence and Diagnosis.—Too much stress cannot be laid upon the necessity of examining the buccal cavity thoroughly, and with a good reflected light, in order that a precise knowledge may be obtained of the con- dition giving rise to the distressing symptoms, and the cause removed. In the chronic catarrhal and hypertrophic variety the tongue is usually coated and dirty, the uvula may be swollen and elongated, the adjacent parts of the soft palate and fauces congested, the tonsils inflamed and oedematous, the patient most intolerant to examination, and readily retching at the approach of a tongue depressor. In a less acute stage the naked-eye evidences of morbid action in the mucous membrane lining the naso- and oro-pharynx may be so slightly marked, or so hidden, as at first glance to escape observation. The mucous membrane may be found to be reddened and studded with nodular excrescences of about the size of a pin's head, and not exceeding that of a split mustard- seed. They may be so closely set as to give a papillomatous appearance, or the mucous membrane may be unevenly hypertrophied, and thrown up into irregular ridges. The surface may be unduly moist, owing to excessive secretion, and covered with a film of saliva and minute air bubbles, or it may be unnaturally dry. In the latter case the membrane is thinned, smooth, and glazed, having a parch- ment appearance, and constitutes the condition of atrophic pharyngitis, or pharyngitis sicca. In this form nasal secretion can often be seen dry and adherent in the upper parts. This atrophic condition in one part may be associated with a hypertrophic condition in another, so that the classification of the various forms of chronic pharyngitis usually described breaks down. The tonsils commonly share in the morbid process, and should the patient retch in the course of the examination, the lateral walls of the pharynx will be brought into view, and may be present as red thickened bands (pharyngitis lateralis). It has already been said that the naked- eye evidences of morbid changes may be so471 PHAEYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS slightly marked as to escape detection ; the de- partures from the normal may at times appear altogether insufficient to account for the discom- fort complained of. At other times a pharynx giving rise to no discomfort, but examined in the course of the investigation of some aural or nasal condition, may present marked appearances of a chronic hypertrophic or glandular pharyn- gitis. In connection with this, mention may be made of the granules seen in the pharynx in children. In them the etiological factors, alcohol, tobacco, vocal fatigue are absent; the presence of little projecting granules, varying in size from a pin's head to a pea, cannot be regarded as due to any morbid process, and does not give rise to any symptoms. These granules are part of a tendency to lymphatic enlargement, and are often associated with adenoids. When the voice is affected an examination of the larynx in the majority of cases will probably be vmproductive of any lesion being found, excepting perhaps some minor degree of thickening of the mucosa in the inter- arytenoid space. The explanation I have to offer of the vocal impairment in the absence of any laryngeal lesion is that given in discussing the etiology of the disease. On theoretical grounds it is conceivable that the impairment of the muscular action of the pharynx, which is directly due to the morbid process, may by reflex action weaken the laryngeal muscles for the freer manipulation of tones of the singing voice. On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that the subject of chronic pharyngitis suffers most when the general health is run down, and the vocal weakness may be quite as much evidence of general loss of tone as of the pharyngitis itself. Without attaching undue importance to lesions in the post-nasal space and the nasal cavities themselves, it may be stated that no examina- tion of a case of chronic pharyngitis can be considered to be complete unless these upper air-passages have been carefully inspected. Naso-pharyngeal catarrh, hypertrophic rhin- itis, and obstructive nasal lesions, when present, are usually more than merely complicating disorders; they stand in direct causal relation- ship to the pharyngeal disease, and their removal is necessary to eradicate it. Treatment.—There is, perhaps, no disease of such frequent occurrence as chronic pharyngitis, which occasions the patient by its persistency so much distress, and the practitioner by its rebelliousness to treatment so much disappoint- ment, a disappointment which is only aggravated by the trivial importance of the disease—trivial only so far as more grave results are not likely to ensue. And yet the treatment is simple, and success can generally be looked for, provided a diagnosis of the situation and cause of the disease is arrived at, and the patient possesses the moder- ate intelligence and strength of will required to co-operate in the treatment. The lack of suc- cess, I think, in many cases must be attributed to insufficient illumination being used in the ex- amination of the parts, all of which can be seen by direct inspection, and to insufficient attention to detail in diagnosis and treatment. It follows from what has been said in dis- cussing the etiology that when the pharyngeal disease is a secondary affection, as it so fre- quently is, the treatment of the general health is of first importance. Should the disease be attendant upon dyspepsia or gastritis, errors in diet must be amended. In the general rules of diet and treatment of gastritis we need not enter in this article, but the importance of relieving any plethora or constipation that may be present cannot be too frequently dwelt upon. A tea- spoonful of some aperient salt, such as Carlsbad, may be taken in a tumbler of hot water on rising, or if the bowels are more constipated the follow- ing pill may be prescribed : Pil. rhei co., pil. colocynth c. hyoscyamo, aa gr. iiss, one or two at night. But even when the pharyngitis is but a mani- festation of some general disorder, local treat- ment is often required. Speaking generally, gargles are of but little service ; they seldom reach the affected parts, excepting in the acute stages of a chronic catarrhal pharyngitis, when the tonsils, uvula, and soft palate are inflamed. In this condition a gargle containing chlorate of potash or alum 3iss, tincture of myrrh 3ij in |viij may be usefully ordered. As the acute stage subsides astringent pigments, such as nitrate of silver or sulphate of zinc, 10 to 20 grains to the ounce, may be applied at intervals of two or three days. Lozenges are so commonly taken that beneficial effects are naturally attributed to them ; but when a gastric disorder has to be combated it is as well to be sparing in the administration of astringent drugs by the mouth. Pastilles are decidedly prefer- able to the hard lozenge, with its rough and angular edges. All the drugs that are known to be of benefit in relieving pharyngitis can now be obtained in the form of pastilles. One con- taining chlorate of potash gr. ij, borax gr. j, and cocaine one-twentieth of a grain, and another containing menthol and cocaine, a twentieth of a grain of each, in my experience, have afforded considerable relief. When the uvula is so elongated as to be obviously a source of irritation, it can easily be reduced. Its removal may be followed, however, by a sharp reaction, and little or no benefit. An application of a 10 per cent solution of eucaine will give sufficient anaesthesia to permit of the tip being held and drawn downwards by a pair of forceps and cut through with curved scissors, care being taken to leave the cut surface on the posterior aspect. If the pharyngitis is kept up by any obstruc-472 PHARYNX—CHRONIC PHARYNGITIS tive lesion in the nose, this must be removed. A nasal or post-nasal discharge may be treated by syringing through the nostrils a solution con- taining a tea-spoonful of the following powder: pulv. sodse bicarb., pulv. sodte bibor., aa 3iij, pulv. sacchar. alb. siij, to half a tumbler of warm water. A spray consisting of menthol gr. xx, euca- lyptol l\xl, in an ounce of paroleine, may be ordered for the nose and naso-pharynx, and is useful when the pharyngitis is part of a post- nasal catarrh. When the tonsils, or the lateral folds, or the lymph follicles are so enlarged as to materially assist in the persistency of the pharyngitis, and other remedies have been found inefficient, then these structures must be dealt with by more active measures. A diseased tonsil, without being enlarged, and even when hidden between the pillars of the fauces, may play a very im- portant part in a chronic pharyngitis, and is very liable to be overlooked as an exciting cause. Upon drawing back the anterior pillar a shrunken tonsil may be found inflamed and its follicles plugged, the treatment of which, either by enucleation or the galvano-cautery, has in my experience resulted in a cure of a pharyngitis which has resisted every other mode of treat- ment. When a tonsil is materially enlarged it can, of course, be removed by the guillotine, but the wisdom of doing so whilst it is acutely inflamed is doubtful. The enlarged lateral folds can be reduced by the cautery; some have advocated excision with the knife. Although it may be a disputed point whether the hypertrophied tissues and lymph follicles on the posterior wall of the pharynx can account for the pain and suffering that at times accom- pany their presence, there can be no difference of opinion amongst those experienced in the treatment of granular pharyngitis about the relief afforded by the destruction of these hyper- trophied follicles. The treatment of granular or hypertrophic pharyngitis consists essentially in the destruction of these hypertrophied struc- tures. This is most effectively done with the galvano-cautery. The surface of the pliarynx is wiped dry, and a 10 per cent solution of cocaine or eucaine is applied with a pledget of cotton-wool to the particular follicles to be attacked. It is better not to cauterise too many follicles in close proximity; it is also as well to keep as far as possible to one side of the pharyngeal wall at one sitting. A small round cautery point is heated to a dull red and plunged in the centre of the follicle. A white slough forms and falls off in about a week, when other follicles may be dealt with. In pharyngitis sicca, or atrophic pharyngitis, a good deal can be done for the patient's com- fort by the removal of the accumulated dried adherent mucus in the naso-pharynx and the nose itself. This can be effected by an alkaline nasal douche and throat spray. The recurrence of these accumulations I have found to be checked, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx improved by being somewhat vigor- ously rubbed with swabs of cotton-wool soaked in a solution containing iodine gr. iij, iodide of potassium gr. xv, carbolic acid gr. iij, glycerine 5j, water to ij. The strength of this solution may be increased. There is one important point in the treatment of pharyngitis which is more liable than any other to escape attention, and that is the necessity for obtaining for the pharynx as much rest as possible—not only in keeping from it irritating articles of food, and interdicting alcohol and tobacco, and enjoining fresh air and the avoid- ance of foul atmospheres, but more especially in impressing upon the patient the necessity of forgetting his throat. That constant effort to clear the throat, to get rid of an imaginary foreign body, or to remove mucus or saliva, necessitates a continuous working of the pha- ryngeal muscles, and explains the aching and dragging sensations referred to the throat and lower part of the neck. Many subjects of chronic pharyngitis are also mouth-breathers by night, if not by day, so that the mucous membrane is irritated continuously in one way or another day and night. Rest is most essential for healing, and rest for this region is most difficult to obtain. Chronic Infective Diseases Syphilis . . . . . . .472 Tuberculosis . . . . . .473 Lupus . . . . . . .474 Leprosy ....... 474 Rhinoscleroma . . . . .474 Syphilis.—Of the chronic infectious diseases syphilis is the one most prone to attack the fauces and pharynx, and at all stages of the disease. It may present as a primary chancre, as an erythema of the fauces, as mucous patches, as superficial ulceration, as gummatous deposits followed by deep ulceration, or it may leave evidence of its past activity in the form of cicatrices, destruction, and deformity. Primary infection of the fauces is of rare occurrence; cases, when it occurs, are usually recorded, but the precise manner of infection is not always easy to ascertain. The tonsils, especially when hypertrophied, have commonly been the site of infection. The chancre here usually covers a larger area than on the penis ; the corresponding lymphatic glands become in- durated. The condition is liable to be confused with epithelioma; treatment and the appearance of a secondary rash will clear up the diagnosis. Erythema of the fauces is a common manifesta- tion of the secondary stage, and gives rise to so little inconvenience that it commonly escapes473 PHARYNX—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES notice until the throat is examined in making a diagnosis of the cutaneous eruption which appears about the same time. The soft palate along its free border and the pillars of the fauces are the parts attacked, and a fairly sharp line of demarcation serves to distinguish the erythema from similar eruptions. Mucous patches usually appear within six weeks to three months of the infection, but they may appear at any time in the course of the disease. The patches are but slightly raised, and present a greyish-white or mauve appearance along the margins of the soft palate, uvula, and pillars of the fauces, and the surface of the tonsils, but are not commonly met with on the pharyngeal wall. Superficial ulceration is generally placed amongst the secondary manifestations of the disease. It is difficult to lay down definite characteristics of these ulcers. They may form a later stage of a mucous patch or of a small gumma. They are commonly oval, elongated with a dirty sloughy base, and have a tendency to a serpiginous arrangement. They may have to be diagnosed from tuberculous ulcei-ation, which is rare. Occasionally one sees in the upper part of the tonsil a condition sinmlating a specific oval ulcer, which is not an ulcer at all, the appearance being due to the deposit of muco-pus from a follicle in one of the furrows which commonly exist in the upper part of the tonsil. This condition has been described as following an attack of tonsillitis, and is liable to be mistaken as evidence of specific disease. Gummatous tumours must be regarded as one of the rarer manifestations of the disease. A distinct tumour may present on the hard palate, or on the pharyngeal wall; more com- monly it has broken down, and i-esulted in deep ulceration when it comes under treatment. Deep ulceration may occur in any part of the fauces and pharynx, and the appearances are too well known to need further description. It must not be forgotten that deep destructive ulceration, the result of hereditary syphilis, may occur early in life. Mention must also be made of congenital gaps and malformations in the structures of the fauces, which at times have been erroneously regarded as evidence of past specific disease. The treatment of syphilis when it affects these regions is essentially the same as when other regions are attacked. Tuberculosis.—Having regard to the frequency with which tuberculosis is met with in the larynx, the manifestation of the disease in the fauces and pharynx may undoubtedly be spoken of as of rare occurrence. There is not suificient data to prove that the region we are considering is ever the site of a primary infection. In the cases recorded it has generally been associated with the disease in the lungs and larynx. When no signs pointing to pulmonary tuberculosis have existed at the time the disease was diag- nosed in the pharynx, they have subsequently developed, so that it is reasonable to infer that deposition of tubercle had previously taken place in the lungs. The onset of the disease is usually insidious, and if the larynx is not also materially aff'ected the symptoms may not be sufficiently marked to bring the patient under observation until the stage of ulceration has been reached. Ulcera- tion is attended with the usual symptoms of sore throat, and deglutition becomes difficult. Owing to the paresis of the soft palate resulting from the infiltration and ulceration, food and drink find their way into the nasal chambers. Symptoms and signs of the pulmonary disease are commonly also present, and the larynx may be so extensively involved as to overshadow the symptoms produced by the faucial disease. A case in its earlier stages, before it is blurred by the results of ulceration, afi^ords an ex- ceptional opportunity for the clinical study of the development of tubercle. The velum, im- mediately adjacent to the base of the uvula, is usvially the starting-point, and thence the dis- ease spreads by continuity. The pathological process is essentially the same as when tubercle develops in the larynx; it commences in the submucosa and gradually spreads outwards. Small greyish-white nodules appear projecting on the surface of the palate, which generally presents some degree of pallor. The nodules break down, leaving minute points of ulceration which coalesce and give the velum a peculiar mouse-nibbled appearance. The area affected increases and becomes coated with a sloughy membranous deposit, which upon being wiped away leaves a raw bleeding surface. The pro- cess may be rapidly destructive, and its char- acteristic features proportionately less distinct. The diagnosis of the disease in its earlier stage may be confounded with that of diph- theria. In a case that came ander my notice, the patient had been certified as suffering from diphtheria, and had been under observation in a fever hospital for several days, hut the bac- teriological examinations of the throat were negative of diphtheria. The clinical appear- ances of the fauces were, one need scarcely add, very suggestive of diphtheria. Scrapings from the palate, however, revealed tubercle bacilli; the lungs and larynx also gave evidence of tuberculosis. In the more advanced cases, syphilis is perhaps the disease from which the diagnosis would have to be made. The points of difference are briefly these : in secondary syphilis the ulcers are elongated and oval, and tend to spread along the margin of the palate from immediately above the tonsils towards the uvula; in tuberculosis the ulcers are minute and circular, and commonly radiate outwards from the base of the uvula. In syphilis the palate is reddened, in tuberculosis pallid, andPHARYNX—CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 474 there is evidence of tubercle in other organs, the general health being also more markedly affected than in syphilis. The two diseases may, of course, be associated. Treatment must be general as well as local. Into the general treatment one need not here enter; locally, orthoform can be insufflated to relieve the dysphagia and permit of sufficient nourishment being taken—it may be combined with resorcin, and is preferable to morphia and repeated applications of cocaine. In suitable cases the affected area may be curetted, and lactic acid in solutions of increasing strength rubbed in at intervals. When this is not practicable iodoform has been found of service. Lupus.—When lupus attacks the fauces it is usually secondary to the disease in the in- teguments of the face and nose. The body of the uvula is commonly the starting-point, and hence it spreads along the soft palate to the pillars of the fauces. The morbid process is essentially one of in- filtration producing nodular thickening of the part affected. Ulceration follows, but the pro- cess is slowly destructive—cicatricial tissue de- veloping side by side with the ulceration. This chronicity of the disease and the efforts of nature to arrest give the part a characteristic appearance, and assist to distinguish it from other infective processes which attack this region. From tuberculosis it may be further distin- guished by the general health not being affected. The ulcers and cicatricial tissiies may bo con- founded with that produced by tertiary syphilis; in lupus the ulcers are not so deep, nor is the destruction of the adjacent structures so extensive. Moreover, if the patient is placed under antispecific treatment, lesions due to lupus, instead of healing, would probably be aggravated. The diagnosis may have to be made from epithelioma; the diffuse infiltration of lupus would help to distinguish it from malig- nant disease which partakes more of the nature of a tumour. Moreover, tuberculosis, syphilis, and malignant disease affecting the soft palate do not remain under observation for many days without giving evidence of the progressive character of these diseases; lupus, on the other hand, would remain comparatively stationary. The treatment must be directed towards im- proving the general health by means of tonics and fresh air. Tuberculin may be used for therapeutic as well as diagnostic purposes, and without danger, provided it is properly injected. When localised, the diseased tissue may be cauterised or curetted, and subsequently treated with lactic acid as suggested by Krause. Leprosy. — The opportunities for observing leprosy in the living subject in this country are but few. When it appears on the fauces, uvula, pharynx, or tongue, it is a secondary manifesta- tion of the disease. The infiltration is followed by ulceration and adhesions which might be sug- gestive of syphilis were not the general disease by this stage well established in other parts. Towards the end the disease may be associated with tuberculosis. Rhinosderoma. — In this disease, to which reference was made in discussing chronic in- fectious diseases of the nose, the pharynx and naso-pharynx are regions that are by no means infrequently iiivolved. The disease is character- ised by dense and hard infiltration with tendency to contraction and cicatrisation, but not to ulceration. The diagnosis is assisted by the fact that cases observed in this country have come from parts where the disease is endemic; should further evidence be required, the specific bacillus and also the cells of Mikulicz may be looked for. Retropharyngeal Abscess Retropharyngeal Abscess— Definition . . . . .474 Etiology 474 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . 474 Symptoms ..... 475 Diagnosis ..... 475 Prognosis . . . . .4^5 Treatment 475 Definition.—A collection of pus situated in the connective tissue between the posterior pharyngeal wall and the cervical vertebrse. Etiology.—The disease is essentially one of infancy, 75 per cent of the cases occurring during the first year of life, while it is very rare in children above four years. Retropharyngeal abscess is generally idiopathic, occurring in weakly, ill-nourished, or rickety children, or in those in whom an attack of one of the acute specifics has lowered the general vitality of the system. In these cases probably a septic in- fection of the nasal or pharyngeal mucous mem- branes has been the starting-point of disease. Less frequently the affection is secondary to cervical caries, suppurating tubercular cervical glands, suppurative middle ear lesion or its sequelae, and still more rarely it may result from traumatism. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—The idio- pathic abscess is a suppurative lymphadenitis of one of the retropharyngeal glands of Henle, situated one on each side of the middle line opposite the second and third cervical vertebrse. These glands disappear between the third and fifth year of life, and hence the confinement of the disease to the early period of childhood. In the exceptional adult idiopathic cases suppura- tion occurs in the degenerate remains of the glands referred to. A retropharyngeal abscess is unilateral, and generally most prominent in the oro - pharyngeal region. Though usually circumscribed, the pus, if not evacuated spon- taneously or artificially, may burrow in various directions, e.g. towards the larynx, producingPHARYNX—RETROPHARYNGEAL ABSCESS 475 oedema, towards the angle of the jaw, external auditory meatus, etc. The glands behind and below the angle of the jaw on the same side as the abscess are usually inflamed. In the secondary forms the morbid anatomy will vary with the nature of the primary lesion. Symptoms. — In idiopathic cases, dysphagia or difficulty of swallowing is an early symptom, and may be accompanied by pyrexia with its constitutional symptoms. These are soon followed by dyspnoea and a croupy cough, while the voice becomes aphonic, throaty, or hoarse. The head is held stiffly, and the glands behind and below the angle of the jaw are inflamed. In secondary cases the symptoms may be much less acute, and pyrexia entirely absent. Examination of the oro-pharynx in acute cases will reveal a prominent swelling of the pharyn- geal wall, which fluctuates on palpation. Diagnosis.—-In infants, the symptoms enu- merated may at first suggest membranous laryngitis, but the difficulty of swallowing, bulging of the pharyngeal wall, unilaterally enlarged glands, and fixation of the head, should suffice to differentiate the diseases. In adults, a breaking-down gumma may closely simulate retropharyngeal abscess, but the exhibition of iodides would soon settle the diagnosis. Prognosis.—This is usually good if treatment be undertaken early. Delay involves the risks of asphyxiation from oedema of the larynx, closure of the glottis by pressure of the abscess, bursting of the abscess during sleep (which may result in immediate asphyxia), or a subsequent attack of broncho-pneumonia. In secondary forms the prognosis necessarily depends i;pon the nature and gravity of the primary disease. Treatment. — Once the diagnosis is made, the abscess should be evacuated without delay. Two methods, the external and internal, have been advocated, and both have given excellent results. If the intra-oral method be chosen (and it has the merit of simplicity), the child should be lightly anfesthetised, and a vertical incision made through the prominence of the abscess, while the head hangs slightly backwards over the end of the table, in order to avoid the entry of pus into the larynx. The abscess having been evacuated, the patient should be immediately turned upon his side. If the abscess be large, it would be preferable to aspirate it before making the incision. Marked laryngeal stridor may necessitate tracheotomy as a preliminary to evacuation of the abscess. When the latter is secondary to caries of the spine, Chiene advised an external operation in order to avoid septic infection of the abscess cavity from the mouth. Pollard has adopted same method in the acute idiopathic abscesses of early childhood, and recommends a 1-inch incision along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, commencing the same distance below the mastoid process. The carotid vessels and vagus nerve are held well forwards, the abscess cavity opened, ren- dered as aseptic as possible, and a drainage-tube inserted into its cavity. Suitable constitutional treatment should be adopted in all forms of the disease. Phelps' Operation. Deformities {Congenital Club-Foot, Talipes Squino-Varus, Operations). Phena.cetin. See also Analgesics and Anodynes ; Toxicology {Phena.cetin).—A coal- tar product, occurring as white crystalline scales, without odour or taste, and only very sparingly soluble in water. It is the least de- pressant and toxic of the analgesic class of drugs to which it belongs, and is very exten- sively used for the relief of pain of all kinds. It has, unfortunately, become firmly established as a popular remedy, and sufferers from head- ache who might be cured if examined medically and treated on rational lines, dose themselves with phenacetin over long periods with distinctly harmful results. As an antipyretic, phenacetin, together with the other members of this group, has deservedly fallen into disrepute. When it becomes necessary during the course of an acute illness to reduce the temperature, cold applications are far better than antipyretics. As an analgesic it is of service in migraine, in ordinary headache, in neuralgia, in the pains of locomotor ataxia, in dysmenorrhoea, and in rheumatism. It is best given in doses of 5 grains every hour for three or four doses. For headache, 1 grain of citrate of caffeine may with advantage be added. Lastly, it finds a very important sphere of action in the mitigation of the pain of all forms of inoperable malignant disease. Its employment for this purpose fre- quently postpones for long periods the intro- duction of opiates. Phenalg^ene.—A proprietary prepara- tion said to contain acetanilide with bicar- bonate of soda, etc.; it is an analgesic. See Acetanilide. Phena.lg'in.—A proprietary preparation said to be an ammoniated combination of phenyl and acetanilide ; it is an antipyretic and an analgesic ; ammonium phenylacetamide. Phena.tol.—A proprietary preparation said to contain acetanilide and caffeine, along with various sodium salts (carbonate, bicar- bonate, sulphate, and chloride); it is antipyretic and analgesic. Phenazonum. See Antipyrin amfZ cross-^-eferences ; Drug Eruptions {Antipyiin).476 PHENETIDINE Phenetidine. — The base (CgHuNO) from which phenacetin (acetphenetidine) is derived by substitution ; the citrate of pheneti- dine is an antipyretic and sedative drug. PhenOCOll. — A substance, with the formula CjqH^^N202, resembling phenacetin; the hydrochlorate of phenocoU has an anti- pyretic action. Phenol. See Carbolic Acid. See also Analgesics and Anodynes {PhenoV); F^ces {Chemical Examination, Aromatic S%ijhstances); Toxicology {Carbolic Acid); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Aromatic Substances). Phenonnenon.—In medicine, the term phenomenon is given to any striking or unusual symptom or sign, e.g. Cheyne-Stokes phenomenon, the patellar phenomenon, etc.; in obstetrics, the phenomena of labour are the recognisable events of the various stages of the confinement, such as dilatation of the os uteri, escape of the fore- waters, etc. Phenyl. — Phenyl is the radicle C^H., which enters into the composition of so many chemical substances; thus phenol is phenyl alcohol (CgHjOH), aniline is phenylamine (Cf;H5NH2), salol is phenylsalicylate (CqH^OH. CO.OCgH:;), and benzene is phenylhydride (CfiH,). Phenyl hydrazi ne. — Hydrazine (HoN.NHg) forms with phenyl the compound known as phenylhydrazine (CgH^HN.NHg), whose hydrochlorate is used as a test for sugar. See Glycosuria {Detection); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Carbohydrates, Monosaccharids, Osazones); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars, Tests). Philippine Itch. — This name was given to a mild form of smallpox, which oc- curred recently in the United States, in the belief that it was a new form of disease. Philoenia.—Addiction to wine (Gr. oivos, wine). Phi lorn imesia.—The desire to mimic people and things ; often a symptom of insanity. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms. Phi It rum. — In anatomy, this term is applied to the middle part (hollow) of the upper lip. Phimosis. See Phymosis. Phlebectasis.—Abnormal dilatation of a vein (Gr. c^Aei/^, a vein); a varicosity. See Capillaries, Diseases op {Phlebectosis); Veins, Diseases of (Varicose Veins). Phlebectomy. — Excision of a vein, e.g. in the case of varix. Phlebitis.—Inflammation of a vein. See Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis). See also Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Intracranial Complications, Thrombosis of Lateral Sinus); Gout {Irregular, Circulatory System, Phlebitis); Liver, Diseases of {Pylephlebitis, Portal Throm- bosis) ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Puerperal In- fection, Phlegmasia Alba Dolens); Rheumatism, Acute {Morbid Anatomy, Symptoms, Phlebitis); Syphilis {Tertiary, Vascular System., Veins). PhlebO-. — In compound words phlebo- (Gr. ^Ae'i//, a vein) means relating to a vein; e.g. phlebograph (an instrument for recording venous pulsation), phlebology (the physiology and anatomy of the veins), phlebometritis (inflam- mation of the veins of the uterus), phleborrhexis (rupture of a vein), and phlebostenosis (vmdue contraction of a vein). PhlebolithS. — Calcareous deposits in veins; vein-stones. See Veins, Diseases of {Thrombosis, Pathology, Calcification). PhlebOSClerOSiS.—Abnormal thicken- ing and hardness of the wall of a vein. See Veins, Diseases op {Thrombosis, Varicose Veins). Phlebothrombosis. See Veins, Diseases of {Thrombosis). See also Puerperium, Pathology {Pyaimia, Morbid Anatomy). Phlebotomy. — Bleeding or blood-let- ting by opening a vein; venesection. See Venesection. Phledonia. — Delirium; wild talking (Gr. ^A.eSaji/, an idle talker). Phlegfm.—The " cold and moist humour " of the ancient writers, excess of which caused the apathetic constitution; now, it generally signifies the thick mucus of the nasal passages in catarrhal conditions (Gr. ^Xey/xa, Lat. pituita, mucus) ; a medicine which aids the expulsion of phlegm is called phlegmagogue. Phleg'masia.—Inflammation with fever (Gr. <j)\eyfji.a, flame, heat). Phlegrmasia Alba Dolens.—The so-called milk-leg or white leg of the puer- perium, due to inflammation or thrombosis of the veins of the limb. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Myocardium, Symptomato- logy, Thrombosis of Large Veins); Lung, Tuber- culosis of {Complications, Phlegmasia, Alba Dolens; Puerperium, Pathology of {Infection, Phlegmasia Alba Dolens); Veins, Diseases of {Thrombosis, Clinical G?-02ips). Phleg^mon.—An inflammatory process, especially when it affects the cellular tissue and leads to boil- or abscess-formation. Phlegmonous. — Of the nature of477 PHLEGMONOUS a phlegmon. See Nose, Acute Inflammation {Acute Suppurative Rhinitis) ; Pharynx, Acute IpHARYNGiTis {Acute Septic Inflammation). PhlOg^OSiS. — Inflammation. The term Phlogosin is applied to the product of certain cultures of bacteria {e.g. pyogenic staphylococci) which causes suppuration when injected under the skin. Phloridzin.—A bitter substance orgluco- side (CgiHq^Ojg), obtained from the bark of the root of the apple, pear, plum, and cherry tree ; diabetes in animals can be produced by the administration of phloridzin {phloridzin-dia- betes). See Glycosuria {Glycosuria produced by Drugs); Liver, Diseases of {Fatty Liver, Causes, Poisons); Physiology, Digestion {Fate of the Food Absorbed, Liver and Glycogen). Phloro- or Phlor-. — In compound words phloro- means relating to phloridzin; e.g. phloretin (a sweet substance (Cj^Hj^Oj), produced by the action of dilute acids on phlor- idzin) ; phloroglucin (a very sweet substance obtained from phloretin, having the formula of CgHgOj); and phloramine (CgH^OgNHj), from the action of ammonia upon phloroglucin. Phlyctena.,—A vesicle or blister; a small vesicle is termed a phlyctonula ; the term phlyctenular is given to such diseases as are characterised by the presence of small blisters or vesicles, e.g. phlyctenular conjunctivitis, phlyctenular impetigo, etc. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Phlyctenular Conjunctivitis); Cornea {Phlyctenular Ulcer); Impetigo (Vesi- cular Impetigo). Phobia,.—An obsession of fear, used fre- quently as a suffix in such words as agwaphobia, claustrophobia, hydrophobia, pathophobia, etc. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Phobia). PhOCas' Disease. — Chronic fibrous inflammation of the breast. PilOCOmeiUS.—A teratological type in which the limbs consist of little more than the hands and feet springing almost immediately from the trunk, like the flappers of a seal (Gr. (j}u)K7j, a seal). PllOnation. — The production of vocal sound. See Hysteria {Disorders of Respiratory Organs). PhonautOgraph.—An apparatus which automatically records the vibrations of sound caused by the voice, etc. PhonendOSCOpe.—A variety of stetho- scope by which sounds within the body are made more easily audible. Phonic Spasm. See Larynx, Neuroses OF {Phonatory Glottic Spasm). Phono-.—In compound words ^j/iowo- (Gr. <^WJ7, voice) means relating to the voice or to sound, e.g. phonograph, phonology, phonoscopje, etc. Phonophobia.—Morbid fear of sound or of hearing the voice. See Hysteria {Disorders of the Respiratory Organs). Phosgene or Phosgene Gas.— A gas (COCI2) produced by exposing chlorine and carbonic oxide to the influence of the sun's rays ; carbon oxychloride or carbonyl chloride. Phosphates. A^eePhosphorus; Ferrum; etc. See a^so Expectoration {Crystals of Triple Phosphates; Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Urine); Stools, Intestinal Sand; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). PhOSphatiC.—Consisting of or relating to phosphates, e.g. ^jAospAa^ic calculi. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Calculus Vesicce); Urinb, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). PhOSphaturia. — The presence of phosphates in excess in the urine. See Brain, Tumours of {Symptoins, Urine); Gout {Irregular, Renal System); Lung, Tuberculosis op (Co«i- plications, Uro-genital); Ovaries, Diseases of {Effect of Ovarian Gland Substance); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {General Sympto- matology, Urinary Symptoms); Stomach, Dis- eases of {Acute Gastyitis; Symptoms, Urinary); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Phosphates). PhOSphenes.—Sensations of light pro- duced by pressure on the eyeball behind the ora serrata. See Eye, Clinical Examination OF {Subjective Sensations of Light); Choroid, Diseases of {Plastic Choroiditis, Sympto7ns). Phosphides. — Compounds of phos- phorus with another element or with a radicle acting as a base, e.g. trihydrogen phosphide or phosphuretted hydrogen (PH3), zinc phosphide (ZugPo); phosphurets. PhOSphineS.—Bases resembling amines but containing phosphorus in place of nitrogen, e.g. monoethyl phosphine (CgH^PHg). Phosphites.—Salts of phosphorous acid. PhOSphO-.—In compound words joAospAo- means related to phosphorus; e.g. phospho- proteins such as vitellin (the protein of white of egg), phospho-carnic acid (a phosphorous com- pound of milk), phospho-glyeerie acid (a body obtained from lecithin), etc. PhOSphonium.—A compound of hydrogen with phosphorus (PH^), resembling ammonium (NH^), and forming compounds, e.g. phosphonium iodide (PH^I), etc.478 PHOSPHORIC ACID Phosphoric Acid. See Phosphorus. PhOSphorism.—Chronic poisoning with phosphorus. See Trades, Dangerous {Phos- phorus-Poisoning) . Phosphorous Acid, ^eePhosphorus. PhOSphoruria.—An abnormal state of the urine, which is phosphorescent when passed from the bladder; occasionally it is used in the same sense as phosjihaturia. Phosphorus and Phosphoric Acid. See also Diet {Mineral Constituents of Food); Glycero-Phosphates ; Heart, Myocar- dium AND Endocardium {General Pathology, Morbid Processes, Fatty Degeneration); Hypo- phosphites ; Jaundice {Jaundice of Phospho^-us Poisoning); Liver, Diseases of {Acute Yellow Atrophy); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases op the Jaw {Inflammatory Disease, Necrosis) ; Nephritis {Etiology); Ovaries, Diseases of {Hmmorrhage in Phosphorus Poisoniruj); Phy- siology, Excretion {Urine, Phosphorus-contain- ing Bodies) ; Purpura {Symptomatic, Toxic Purpura); Toxicology {Non-metallic Elements, Phosphorus); Trades, Dangerous {Phosphorous and Lucifer Match-Making). Phosphorus.—Symbol, P ; atomic weight, 30-8. A non-metallic element usually obtained from bones. It is a wax-like solid with a peculiar and characteristic odour. When exposed to the air it ignites, and must therefore be kept under water in tightly stoppered bottles. It is lumin- ous in the dark if it has been previously exposed to the action of light. Its dose is 2V grain in pill or solution. It is insoluble in water, sparingly soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloro- form, and very soluble in oils. Preparations— 1. Oleum Phosphoratum, 1 per cent in almond oil; very disagreeable. Dose—1-5 m. 2. Pilula Phosphori, 2 per cent. Dose—1-2 grs. The Tinctura Phosphori Composita and the Elixir Phosphori (Brit. Pharm. Conference) are con- venient forms for administration. Phosphorus has to a large extent dropped out of use as a therapeutic agent. Owing to its stimulant effect on the growth of bone, it has been employed in osteomalacia and in rickets, but without any definitely beneficial effect. It has also been recommended for nervous exhaus- tion and debility, and for various diseases of the nervous system. In chronic skin diseases, in leucocythtemia, and in neuralgia it has been supposed to act in a manner analogous to that of its chemical ally, arsenic. Phosphoric Acid.—Is official as Acidum Phos- phoricum Concentratum and Acidum Phosphori- cum Dilutum, the latter being given in doses of 5-20 m. It possesses the actions common to all the dilute acids, and is employed largely as a tonic and a gastric stimulant. It does not resemble phosphorus in its action, and has no special advantage over the other acids in the treatment of debility and exhaustion of nervous origin. P h OS p h U rets. See Phosphides. PhOSSy Jaw.—Phosphorus necrosis of the jaw. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Inflammatory Disease, Necrosis); Phosphorus. Photo-.—In compound words photo- (Gr. ^tos, light) means relating to light; e.g. photo- bacterium (a phosphorescent bacterium), pho- togen (a light-producing organ, or, simply, paraffin), photohcemotachometer (a hsemotacho- meter in which the changes in the level of the blood-column are noted by photography), photo- micrograph (a photograph of a microscopic object), etc. PhotOg'ene.—In physiology, the term photogene is used for a visual impression, an after-image. PhotOg'eniC. — Light-producing, as in the case of certain bacteria. See Micro-Organ- ISMS {Bacteria). Photomania. — in insanity, the term photomania indicates the inability of the patient to bear the influence of light without an increase in the violence of the symptoms from which he is suffering. Photometer. — An instrument for measuring the intensity of light. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Night-Blindness, Fd7'ster's Photo7neter). Photophobia.—Intolerance of the eye to light, as in conjunctivitis, etc. See Brain, Surgery of {Intracranial Inflammation, Symp- toms of Acute Leptomeningitis); Eye, Clinical Examination of {Ocular Conjunctiva, Photo- phobia) ; Measles {Course, Symptoms); Menin- gitis, Epidemic Cerebro - spinal {Symptoms, Special Senses). Photopsia.—A subjective sensation of light. PhototaxiS. — The spontaneous move- ments of cells under the influence of light. See Physiology, Cell {Pr-otoplasm, Phototaxis). Phototherapy.—The treatment of dis- ease by light, e.g. of skin diseases by Finsen's method. See Skin, Tuberculosis of {Lupus, Treatment); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment OF [Phototherapy). Phrenaig'i^'- — Melancholia (Gr. <l>priv, the mind), or neuralgia of the diaphragm (Gr. (fip-Qv, the midriff). Phrenic Nerve. /See Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of {Symptoms, Contraction of Dia-PHRENIC NERVE 479 phragm); Diaphragm, Medical Affections {Paraly&is); Diaphragm, Surgical Affections {Surgical Anatomy); Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis {Localised, Suh-phrenic Abscess). PhrenitiS.—Inflammation of (I) the brain or (2) the diaphragm. PhrenO-.—in compound words phreno- (Gr. cj)pr]v, the mind or the diaphragm) means relating to the mind or to the diaphragm, e.g. phrenology, phrenopathy, phrenoplegia, etc. PhrenOSin.—A substance obtained from brain tissue ] it has the formula Cg^Hg^NOg. Phronemophobia.—A morbid fear of thought (Gr. <^p6vi]ix.a., thought). Phtha,liC.—An abbreviated form of naph- thalic ; relating to naphthalene—e.g. phthalic acid (CgHp^O^), phthalyl (CsH^02). PhthiriasiS. — Pediculosis {q.v.); it is derived from the Greek (f>6etp, a louse or pediculus. Phthisis. See Lung, Tuberculosis of. See also Alcohol {Indications); Alcoholism {Complications); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm (Physical Signs, Pulsation of Chest, in Fibroid Phthisis); Breath ; Chest, Clinical Investiga- tion of {Alterations in Size and Shape, "Alar" Chest); Chest, Deformities of ; Choroid, Dis- eases OF {Suppurative Choroiditis, Phthisis Bulbi); Cough {Clinical Varieties); Diabetes M'EhhiTUS {Complications,Phthisis); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Tuberculous Disease); H^matoporphyrinuria {Causes); Hemoptysis {Etiology); Insanity, Etiology of {Microbic); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {h-itis Phthisis Bulbi); Knbe-Joint, Diseases of {Tuberculous Affections); Labour, Obstetric Operations {Induction of Labour); Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Laryngeal Phthisis); Lungs, Syphilis of {Diagnosis); Mediastinum {Growths, Diagnosis); Menstruation and its Disorders {Amenorrhoea, Causes); Meteoro- logy {High Altitudes and Damp Soil in Phthi- sis) ; Muscles, Diseases of {Myositis in Phthi- sis) ; Nephritis {Etiology); Nose, Chronic In- fective Diseases (Tuberculosis); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases (Tuberculosis); Pneumonia, Clinical (Complications); Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications (Pul- monary, Phthisis); Purpura (Cachectic); Tuber- culosis (Mixed Infection). Phycomycetes. See Micro-Organisms (Hyphomycetes). Phyiaxins. ^—Defensive proteids which give immunity against various diseases, either by destroying the microbes of the diseases or by counteracting the poisons which they produce. PhyiOg^enesiS. — The evolution or de- velopment of the species (Gr. <^CA.ov, a race) as opposed to ontogenesis, the development of the individual. Phyma.—A swelling, especially a large tubercle (Gr. 4>vfxa, a tumour); a disease char- acterised by the presence of such growths is termed a phymatosis. PhymosiS.—A tight condition of the prepuce (Gr. cfufxas, a muzzle). See Children, Clinical Examination of (Urinary Systetn, Phymosis); Circumcision (Phymosis); Micturi- tion (Incontinence, Causes); Spermatorrhcea (Causes); Urethra, Diseases of (Gonorrhoea, Complicatio7is) ; Venereal Disease (Soft Sore, C omplica tions). Physic.—A medicine or drug, or else the science of medicine, e.g. Practice of Physic. Physical.—Relating to nature (Gr. (jjvaL';, nature) or, more generally, to the body ; e.g. physical signs are those indications of disease which the physician detects in his patient by his sight, touch, hearing, and smell, or by these senses aided by instruments. See Ascites (Physical Signs); Balneology (Physical Exer- cise after Bathing); Gynecology, Diagnosis in (Physical Examination); Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium (Physical Exainination); Lung, Tuberculosis (Physical Signs); Massage ; ETC., etc. Physio-.—In compound words /jAysjo- (Gr. (f}v(ri<:, nature) means natural or relating to nature or to the body in activity; e.g. physio- chemistry (physiological chemistry), physiopath- ology (pathology as influenced by physiology), physiogenesis (the science of the genesis of vital functions), etc. Physiog^nomy and Expression. Physiognomy and Expression . . 480 Definitions ...... 480 Physiognomy and Diagnosis— Types of Head 480 Correlations of Defects of Cranium . 481 The Palate and the Features . .481 Observation and Study . . . 482 Reversion; Arrested and Late Develop- ment ...... 482 Expression and Movement— Large and Small Parts in Movement. 484 Series of Movements— (a) Uniform ..... 484 (b) Increasing ..... 484 (c) Diminishing .... 484 (d) Co-ordinated .... 484 Expression of Brain Faculty— (1) Spontaneity .... 484 (2) Impressionability . . . 484 (3) Inhibition .... 484 (4) Control through Senses . . 484480 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION Expression of Brain Faculty (contd.) — (5) Control thrviigh Muscle Sense . 485 (6) Compound Cerebration . . 485 (7) Retentiveness .... 485 (8) Co-ordination .... 485 (9) Spreading Action . . . 485 (10) Resjoonse 485 Physiognomy, Nutrition, and Expression correlated ..... 485 Defective Development and Mortality . 486 Description op a Case .... 486 Physiognomy and Expression as aids to dia- gnosis of disease have been dwelt upon by the older writers on medicine more than by those of recent times. Observers, when giving their descriptions, have always placed stress upon the facts they have seen tliemselves and regard as the most uniform occurrences characteristic of a certain disease or form of illness. The advance of scientific medicine, with the aid of the stethoscope, the clinical thermometer, the microscope, and chemical examination of the urine and secretions, as well as bacteriological investigations, have supplied more certain cri- teria for the diagnosis of disease than were formerly available. Still it remains true that many points in physiognomy indicate either proneness to disease or aptness in resisting power. This is specially seen in studying the diseases and illnesses of childhood. It is necessary to distinguish observations and descriptions of physiognomy from those of expression. The older writers on physiognomy say very little about mobile expression, and the association of conditions of health or brain status with the types described. Lavater figured the cast of head and features which appeared to him indicative of phases of mental character, but he understood very little about expression. Sir Charles Bell was one of the first inquirers to differentiate clearly between expression and physiognomy, showing that the former depends upon and directly indicates action in the nervous system. Physiognomy deals with the form of visible parts of the body, the head, the separate features, and the palate. Form depends upon relations in size and in proportion; physiognomy is characterised by proportioning of the head and features and their parts in developmental growth as well as size. When these points are described in a patient, together with the condi- tions of health and brain associated, a valuable clinical account is presented of great use in acquiring experience. In studying physiognomy and anthropology instruments of precision may be used. It is, however, necessary, when ob- serving the body, to follow methodical pro- cedure, and to know what to look at and the characteristics to describe, so that observations may be rendered comparable and uniform; at the same time we should learn to distinguish normal from subnormal development. Expres- sion differs from physiognomy, and varies with the changing action of the central nervous system, wliose states are indicated by the neuro- muscular system—just as the hands of a watch express the movements of the wheels inside. Expression in the face is the finest index of changes in the brain-centres as produced by the muscles acting on the cutaneous surface, and may vary as rapidly as the words uttered in expressing thoughts. Still, though the ex- pression be evanescent, it is in many particulars capable of description, and is especially import- ant in the clinical stvidy of mental cases. Ex- pression results from movements in other parts than the face, such as gesticulations and action of the hand and the attitudes of the head and body. Movement is the principal means by which we ascertain the condition and action of the nerve-centres ; further, movement and results of movement are the only means by which mental action in another person becomes known to us. It is now clearly understood that ex- pression is produced by movement and muscular tone, resulting from the balance of action in the brain-centres. Thus expression may be described as a direct sign of mental status, while physiognomy indicates prenatal and con- genital development. Physiognomy is here dealt with as an aid to clinical description and diagnosis, not as applied to ethnography. I think that physiognomical points should be recorded in the clinical de- scription of a patient, as indicating a general condition of development, normal or subnormal. Descriptions of each point in bodily develop- ment—when the co-existing status of general nutrition and the expression of brain-action are simultaneously recorded as normal or subnormal —have added much to our knowledge of the pathology, etiology, and prognosis of clinical cases. The correlations of physiognomy and nutrition of body with the expression of brain- action afford most useful information and ex- planation of many problems. The fact that a physiognomy subnormal in certain particulars is much associated with a low status of nutri- tion adds interest to this subject, and though the relation may be empirical, the correlation as cause and effect appears to be established by experience. The study of physiognomy and expression as applied to medicine is based on observation. We need to recognise normal from subnormal development in our patients as seen in each feature, and in growth of the body as indicated by anthropometry. Among indications of the developmental status of an individual the general conformation of the head and detailed points in physiognomy are of much interest. For the purposes of clinical medicine the volume or content of the brain- case is of more importance than the form; next to this the conditions of ossification and growthPHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION 481 of the bones composing it have the greatest interest. The head and the brain grow rapidly in early life. In the infant at birth the head has an average circumference of 13 "95 inches in the male and 13'75 in the female, increasing to about 17"5 inches at nine months and 19"0 inches at twelve months, continuing to grow until it becomes 20 or 21 inches in circumference at seven years of age. In form the general contour of the head is rounded; the forehead should be smooth, without frontal ridge or contraction between the temples. The greatest transverse diameter is between the centres of the parietal bones behind the ears, and at a higher level than their insertion. The anterior f ontanelle enlarges with the growth of the head till about the eighth month, then becoming gradually closed by growth of the frontal and parietal bones, so that it is hardly to be felt after the first year. The head should be viewed both full face and in profile. It may best be felt by placing the open hand on the head, with the thenar and hypothenar eminences resting on the forehead, so that the extended fingers, lying on the surface, may feel the general form and volume, as well as any irregularities in ossification. Measurements may be taken with a tape at the largest circumference, transversely from one meatus to the other, over the top of the head, and again, antero-posteriorly in the median line from the root of the nose to the occipital pro- tuberance. The size, the growth in a period of time, and to some extent the configuration or proportions of the head, are thus observed. The most important information to be gained is as to the size and content of the brain-case ; next to this the conditions of ossification are of great interest, and these—if we exclude those Cranium defective, including all cases below —2334 boys, 1659 girls. Cranium Large.—A head of 22 inches circum- ference or over may be considered large in any school child ; allowance must be made for age. Hydrocephalus was not here included ; doubt- less many cases were rachitic—364 boys, 59 girls. Cranium Squall.—The point of size is recorded as apart from the height of the child—476 boys, 1245 girls. Cranium Bossed.—There may be bosses, pro- tuberances, or outgrowths at the site of the ossific centres of the frontal and parietal bones —818 boys, 174 girls. Forehead Defective.—The forehead may be narrow, shallow in vertical measurement, or small in all dimensions; it may bulge forward and overhang. All defects of forehead except " bosses " and " frontal ridge " are here included. Interfrontal Ridge.—The verticle suture be- tween the two halves of the frontal bone may be the site of a bony ridge, present in all degrees; if the forehead is also narrow, it forms the scapho-cephalic type which is the worst form of cranial development—210 boys, 46 girls. Four principal types of head may be mentioned : dolicho-cephalic or long head ; oxy- cephalic or the elevated head; brachy-cephalic or broad headed ; and micro-cephalic, with a circumference below 17 inches after the second year. Dr. Arthur Macdonald says: " Bright girls have a larger percentage of long-headedness than dull girls; the reverse is the case with boys." See Experimental Study of Children, p. 1005. The significance of cranial defects is shown by the conditions correlated, as follows :— With Abnormal Nerve Signs. Delicate or Thin. Mentally Dull. No. of Cases. Percentage of Cases. No. of Cases. Percentage of Cases. No. of Cases. Percentage of Cases. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls. All cranial defects Cranium small ,, symmetrical . 850 177 40 531 372 7 55-6 54-1 47-6 50-6 50-4 43-7 392 151 18 480 399 3 25-7 46-1 21-4 45-8 54-1 18-7 634 165 35 477 353 6 41-4 60-4 41-6 45-5 47'8 37-6 due to rickets and syphilis as results of disease —are mainly states of ossification, either at the centres of the bone or near their margins, where the sutures may be thickened and raised, principally at the interfrontal and interparietal sutures. The frequency of deviations from the normal cranial physiognomy, as far as regards boys and girls of school age, is shown in the following quotation from the report on 100,000 children I examined in conjunction with a com- mittee, 1888-92. Among 53,144 boys, 46,856 girls seen, there were reported as follows :— VOL. VII A small head, that is of circumference of 19 or less than 20 inches after seven years of age, is a defect—contrary to the rule—more fre- quent among girls than boys. There may be average mental ability, but the child usually remains thin and delicate, with liability to exhaustion. The palate, or space between the teeth of the upper jaw, may be defective in form and pro- portions, as seen in the vertical and horizontal plane. The alveolar processes, in place of being parallel at the site of the molars and forming a semicircle above the canine and incisor teeth 31482 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPKESSION towards the front, may form two straight lines, meeting at an acute angle in front, the palate between them being contracted—that is, it is V-shaped in the horizontal plane. Again, the palate may be highly arched, or vaulted with a Gothic roof, and at the same time contracted laterally. It is not uncommon in observing physiognomy to see a lateral contraction of the superior maxillary bones, leading to sinking in of the sides of the face below the cheeks, while inspection of the mouth shows smallness of the palatine plates and a narrow palate. Sub- normal conditions of the palate are almost as much correlated with abnormality of the individual as defects of the cranium in other parts; they are often associated with adenoid growths and nasal obstruction. The features should be observed separately, and bilateral parts compared. The nose is constructed partly of bone, the anterior portion being formed in cartilage; these parts should be observed separately. The bony bridge of the nose may be wide and thick ; this is often accompanied by obstruction of the respiratory passage. The nostrils may be small, further impeding the air-passages. The ears, like other parts, grow, and should be of a size recognisable as proportional to the head. The normal character seems to depend upon the presence of all parts—the helix, anti- helix, pinna, and lobule. The most frequent abnormality is a large outstanding ear, with defect of the helix and absence of the anti-helix, while the skin is red with varicose venules and adherent to the cartilage. The palpebral fissures may be small though well shapen, leaving but a small space between the lids; the transverse axis from the canthus to the external angle, in place of being hori- zontal, may slope outwards and downwards or upwards. The mouth, as a feature at rest, should be of sufficient size, and the lips thin, without enlargement at the margins of the mucous membrane. A small mouth is the most usual defect, often accompanying a narrow palate and respiratory obstructions. The features collectively may be heavy and flat; parts may be small or large and ill- proportioned. The separate features may not be individually malformed, but disproportionate to one another or to the size of the face; thus, the nose may be small while the face is large, round, flat, the features rising from the plane of the face; a small mouth with small eye- openings gives a blank look. The face, with the upper and lower jaws, may be small, independent of the size of the calvarium or brain-case. As a criterion of the normal de- velopment of a feature all its parts should be present; for instance, in the ear, the helix, anti- helix, pinna, and lobe should be looked at as well as the texture of the skin covering it. Other defects in development might be de- scribed, and the proportions in growth of the body might be referred to, but this belongs rather to the subject of anthropometry than physiognomy. The methods of studying observations of physiognomy, or recorded facts, are important, and should be considered in their relations to other conditions associated with them. It is particularly when dealing with questions as to the constitution or congenital status of the brain of an individual that observation of the physiognomy or development and the expression or neuro-muscular action together give so much aid. The careful study of physiognomical signs and conditions of development, rather than new observations, has afforded recent advance in knowledge; the records of the state of general nutrition of the body, together with the neuro-motor signs of brain action, have been closely studied in their inter-relations, together with other facts in physiology. Various con- ditions of bodily development may be studied among themselves, and also in their relations with other causes of a normal or subnormal state, thus adding to our knowledge and ex- perience in many ways, and throwing a new light on conditions of evolution, reversion, laws of nutrition, causes of infantile mortality, and other matters of interest in relation to diagnosis and etiology. Physiognomical signs, that is, points in developmental growth, prove nothing them- selves with regard to the brain, except the obvious fact that when the head is small the brain which it contains is small also. Still they suggest probabilities of value in pathology and prognosis. When developmental defects are seen coincident with actual signs of brain deficiency, they indicate the probability of congenital origin. Summary and generalisation of observations have shown many new facts; among others, the frequent coincidence of several developmental defects in the same individual. It is largely in connection with the diagnosis of causes of delicacy and low nutrition, as well as brain dis- order, that the study of physiognomy is most useful in clinical medicine. Classification and analysis of the physiognomy in a large number of cases have shown most clearly the greater frequency of developmental irregularities in males, while the low nutrition and delicacy accompanying are greater with females at all ages. Sometimes we may recognise reversion in the type of development, as the Mongolian type, when the palpabral fissures are narrow and slope downwards and outwards. The frequency of this form of development in some idiots has been shown by Dr. Langdon Down and other observers ; it is also not infrequently seen among persons of normal brain-power.483 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION Prenatal development may be arrested, as in cleft-palate and hare-lip, visible remnants of the branchial clefts and other points. Occasionally supernumerary parts are de- veloped, such as rudimentary ears, extra fingers and toes. I have not found these and the like deformities much associated with defect of the brain. Development may be late for the age of the child: thus, the bony portion of the nose, the bridge and septum, are not much developed in the infant; the proportions of growth change later on, so that the feature becomes prominent when five or six years old. This forward growth of the nose may be delayed, not occurring till seven years or later, without disease ; such may be seen in several members of the same family. Teething is often delayed in children of back- ward development, and the third molars are often imperfectly developed. In all cases of delayed development it is advisable to take the weight and height, together with a few anthropo- metric measurements, for comparison with the normal of the age. Expression and movement in the face, and by gestures and attitudes of the head, limbs, and body, have most frequently been described as indicating emotions. The practitioner of medi- cine needs physical signs of action in the central nerve-system, such as may be observed singly or collectively ; he can thus proceed with his investigations, as when using physical signs indicative of a normal or subnormal state of the heart and lungs or other organs, interpreting what is seen, and making inferences from ob- servations. These nerve signs may be normal or subnormal; each must be recognised, that health and disorder occurring in varying degree may be appreciated. It is the neuro-motor signs of brain action that we study in expression. In describing any expression of brain status, as seen in movement, the part moving must be indicated, whether in the face or hand, etc., as well as the direction of the movement, and if possible its degree, also its relations to any antecedent obviously connected with it, such as a sensory stimulus. We should not speak of movement as voluntary, purposive, or in- telligent, but as following auditory or visual stimulus, repeated as formerly seen, apparently spontaneous, or in other terms indicating what we observe. The face in normal expression moves sym- metrically. In the forehead the frontal and corrugator muscles produce action, seen in the tone and wrinkling of the skin ; thus horizontal and vertical creases respectively are produced. Frowning (horizontal creases) may be fine or of coarse degree; it may occur spontaneously, mostly corresponding to an unoccupied and inert mental state, and is more common in boys than girls. This action may present an uniformly repeated movement, athetoid in character, re- curring spontaneously or following every stimu- lus. Knitting of the eyebrows (corrugation) may be a fine movement indicative of mental stress; it may also occur with frowning as a spontaneous or athetoid action. Muscular tone about the lower lid (orbicularis oculi) is present in a lively face ; it is increased in smiling, but lessened in fatigue, bodily or mentally, so that the lids look puffy or swollen, as is common accompanying migraine. Important items of expression are seen about the angles of the mouth, which move upwai'ds and outwards in smiling, with increase or duplication of the naso- labial grooves, or with convulsive spreading movement in laughter, or coarse repetitive action in grinning. Expression in the upper lip may be asymmetrical, uncovering the canine tooth, as in sneering, also during speech in a general paralytic, accompanied by tremor, and in the spasm of stammering which spreads in the face. The angles of the mouth are depressed in physical pain, the line of the lips being arched down- wards at the commencement of crying ; this ex- pression is antithetical to that of joyfulness, and there may be a struggle between the expression of the two emotions. Movements of the eyeballs, like other action, should be under control of the brain centres, and readily co-ordinated through sight or hear- ing as well as acquired habit. Expression in the size and reaction of the pupil is too large a subject to deal with here. Eye movements are often spontaneous when similar action is seen in the face and the hand. Well-controlled move- ments are seen when the eyes are easily directed in following a moving object without turning the head, and similarly in looking at and count- ing objects while the head is kept quiet. Spon- taneous eye movements characterise neurotic conditions and chorea; when chiefly upwards in direction they may indicate mental excite- ment ; lateral oscillations are often seen in mental emotion and in the insane, as apart from organic nystagmus. The hand, like the face, expresses brain action in its balance and movements. The hand when held out promptly, without extra movements, should balance straight, all parts in the same plane, without folding of the metacarpus or drooping of the thumb or fingers, while the arm is straight at the elbow and held on a level with the shoulder. This attitude expresses well- trained brain balance, while co-ordinated move- ments of the digits in response to direction or imitation, accurate in the time and degree of each act, whether in flexion or in lateral move- ments, as performed by the small intrinsic muscles of the hand, show good brain response. In nervous subjects the metacarpus is arched, and its bones drawn together, making it look narrow and concave on the palmar surface, while the knuckle-joints are extended backwards and the thumb bent outwards. This is often accom- panied by finger twitches, either flexor-extensor484 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION or lateral, when the digits are separated. These points are usually seen in a child convalescent from chorea. In fatigue and listlessness the hand is held out more slowly and at a lower level than the shoulder, the palm contracted as before described, with the wrist and fingers drooped. This, like the nervous balance, is usually more marked on the left side. The movements of expression may be de- scribed and classified for further study as occur- ring in large or in small parts of the body. Rotation of the head to one side, with raising of the scapula; jerking movements of both shoulders while they are brought somewhat forward ; movement at shoulder-joint and elbow ; shifting the lower limbs at the hips, or binding the knees, are examples of large muscles in action ] these frequently occur in functional and so-called hysterical cases. These differ in the signification of their expression from the finer movements of the digits, the eyeballs, and the mobile features of the face, and the tongue, which more directly represent action in the higher centres, and are often expressive of mental states ; they are readily interfered with by local changes in the brain, such as general paralysis at its commencement, chorea of slight degree, and neurotic disturbances. Further examples will appear in speaking of classes of movements. In describing expression, besides indicating the parts that move, whether small or large, the character and relations of series of move- ments are of importance. Movements may be classified or grouped without reference to either the parts moving or the cause of the action seen. Uniformly repeated movements, of the same parts occurring in the same order, when spon- taneous, have been called automatic; such may be seen in repeated frowning, grinning, grimaces, shoulder shrugging, tricks and habits (such as protrusion of the tongue, tapping with a finger on the table), as well as in athetosis. Such movements are unintelligent, and frequent among imbeciles. An increasing area of movement may express emotion, and follow a slight stimulus causing much brain action, such as a few words or even a look from another person. Action thus spreads over the face in smiling. In laughter it is stronger; commencing about the mouth, the whole body is finally convulsed ; the spreading convulsion of passion and epilepsy lead to brain exhaustion ; in chorea a slight stimulus produces widely-distributed movement. A spreading movement may be uniformly repeated on various occasions, as the area of spasm in stammering. A lessening series of inovements is seen when excitement or spontaneity lessens, as rest or sleepiness supervenes; also when fidgeting is partially inhibited during mental attention, as well as during convalescence from chorea, and when an epileptic or hysterical fit or storm of passion subsides. A co-ordinated series of movements expresses a relation to the environment in its present or past control. One act succeeds another, not an increasing area of movement; each act ac- complishes something in well co-ordinated action, and the series follows a certain order. Co-ordination is usually less fatiguing than the spreading expression of emotion. Expression may be described by indicating individual neuro-motor signs and series of move- ments ; besides this, it is useful to study ex- pression of the general characters of the state of the brain, that is, the modes of sensory response, which may be conveniently grouped under headings. Spontaneity is the normal character of the young brain. This kind of movement may be seen in infants, and is abundant in childhood ; usually there is variety rather than repetition in such action. The area of movement may spread or diminish iinder observation ; then we infer a corresponding increase or decrease of spontaneity in the nerve-centres. In early years spontaneity is seen in uncontrolled move- ments of all parts of the body, especially the digits and the eyeballs, while disconnected thoughts similai'ly arise, but later they become controllable by training. Spontaneous move- ment lessens towards adolescence, remaining latest in facial expression and in speech, while spontaneous thoughts continue more or less to the end of life. Uncontrolled movement may occur in fatigue or low health, as fidgetiness, restlessness and chorea, or as mental action in delirium. Impressionability is shown by any of the modes of expression in which action is controlled by the environment through the senses, whether the impression be permanent or not. Inhibition is expressed when, in an infant three or four months old, the spontaneous move- ments are momentarily arrested after an im- pression by sight or sound, at first for a few seconds only. At this stage of brain evolution we cannot infer what occurs in the brain during the pause, but at, say, five months old, co- ordinated action follows the arrest of spontaneity; the object seen is grasped, or the head and eyes turned towards the sound: the brain is prepared for this co-ordinated action during the pause. An older child, when asked a question, tends to repeat it; the fidgeting is probably arrested in part, then comes a pause for thought followed by expression in words. We infer that some readjustment of the brain-centres (psychosis) occurs during the period of inhibition of move- ment corresponding to thought. Control through the senses expresses the reaction of the nerve-centres to external stimulation; this should be tested separately for hearing, sight, and other sources of im-PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION 485 pression, and the effects noted in controlling spontaneity and in co-ordinated action. Control through rnuscle sense is an important means of impressing the brain; muscular con- traction sends a stimulus up to the brain, thus producing eifects often mental in character. Muscle sense is exerted in two ways — (1) Contraction of muscles leads to mental action and expression when objects are counted by eye-movements, or their size is felt by the fingers as apart from sight, when length and measurements are felt; also in touching parts of the face or indicating the position of the limbs. (2) Tension of muscle produces expres- sion after feeling and comparing weights held in the open hand, when the degree of strain on the muscles is expressed in words, or when the degree of pressure made by the fingers is indicated. Compound Cerebration.—Expression by move- ment, or by words following a single sensory stimulus, may be complex, and so far diff'erent from the primary impression received as to indicate clearly that it is not an act of simple imitation or repetition, but is due to interaction among the brain-centres. In imitation the centres corresponding to those active in the brain of the person imitated come into activity one after another, guided by each movement seen as it occurs. In the complex action referred to we must infer that the primary stimulus is followed by nerve currents passing from certain nerve-cells to others, in turn to be finally succeeded by expression in action well adapted by the sensory impression. The relation of the primary stimulus to the final action can only be interpreted as an interaction among the brain-centres occurring during the pause for response. Retentiveness is expressed in repeating a movement exactly as it was performed on a previous occasion; when this follows a direction given, the action indicates some memory and intelligence. Any act of memory is due to the revived activity of impressions pi-eviously received and retained in the nerve-centres producing expression by words or actions. Co-ordinated action is expressed when a series of acts is obviously controlled by the environ- ment, as by a direction given, or when it so far resembles similar action performed previously as shows it to be due to past impressions and acquired experience. Thus a number of acts follow one another, due either to immediate sensory control or to the interaction of the nerve-centres among one another, suggesting their connection by nerve pathways previously formed. Spreading area of brain action is expressed by an increasing area of movement seen, and probably indicates a greater discharge of force from nerve-cells than co-ordinated action does. We have no unit of measure for nerve force expended in action : it seems probable that the nerve energy spent is partly that proceeding to the muscles, and in part that producing new nerve pathways, as to the physiology of which we are ignorant. Response may immediately follow the stimulus eliciting it, or there may be a prolonged pause of inhibitory action; there is usually no delay in simple motor response, but a pause for thought (attention) is common, and it may be inferred that during the interval of time there is a process of interaction among the brain- centres (compound cerebration), sometimes accompanied by spreading brain action (mental confusion). Motor response is seen in reflex action without delay; this is similarly repeated on application of the same stimulus; a higher mode is evidenced when co-ordinated action follows a simple direction or command without further guidance. The study of expression, movements, and individual nerve signs, enables us to give descriptions of what may be seen indicative of various brain conditions, while physiology and the principles of cerebral localisation enable us to interpret these observations and draw inferences from the facts. In such descriptions we say what we look at and what we see in the face and the hand, etc., then classify the neuro- motor signs seen in succession, and proceed to record the general character of the brain status. Physiognomy and expression, when studied in association with the brain power and health of the individual, show relations among these conditions of great clinical interest. The facts here presented suggest principles by which we may be guided in making inferences as to modes of brain action in various mental states, as well as in conditions of brain disturbance. We need to be acquainted with (1) the frequency of occurrence of each developmental and nerve sign, and (2) their correlations in age-groups for each sex; such facts have been given earlier in this article concerning defects of the cranium, and tables affording similar information as to other developmental conditions and nerve signs I have given elsewhere. The correlations are sufficiently constant and uniform to be useful as guides to prognosis; they vary with sex often to a marked degree, and also in the age- groups among children. The more imusual or infrequent developmental conditions are often the most abnormal, as indicated by their higher correlations. The intimate relations that have been shown to exist between conditions of development, health of body, and the modes of brain action, indicate the usefulness of studying physiognomy and expression as aids to diagnosis, etiology, prognosis, and pathology. Children of the neurotic type are usually marked by good physiognomy, with a tendency to spreading486 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION movement, much varied in the special nerve signs occurring ; the action may be spontaneous, as in chorea, or easily excited, as in mental irritability. On the other hand, low types in development and defects of individual parts, accompanied by repetitive movements—frown- ing, grimaces, protrusion of the tongue, and repetition of the question asked—are frequently indicative of a brain slow in mental action and imperfect in all response. The clinical descrip- tion of nerve signs enables inferences to be made as to the neural processes occurring in the brain. Repetitive actions often characterise conditions of hysteria, and are seen in fixed abnormal habits, spasmodic torticollis, and athetosis; emotion, hysteria, chorea, epilepsy, are charac- terised by spreading brain action, hence im- provement residts from training and education adapted to bring the brain under control and guidance. In similar manner we may study the neural states corresponding to brain fatigue, sleep, mental confusion, forgetfulness. The ob- server who habitually compares the attitudes and movements seen in the two hands will soon be convinced that the early indications of inert- ness and fatigue are more commonly apparent in the left upper extremity, which is so often held at a lower level than the right, while this hand more commonly shows the expression of feebleness or nervousness. Observation of nerve signs thus shows the greater liability of the right cerebi'al hemisphere to weakness and early fatigue. Infants with scapho-cephalic heads and premature ossification of the fontanelles are typical of low development; these are more usually met with among males; they are very liable to be cut off by any pulmonary or gastro- intestinal disturbance, or by convulsions. Infant mortality is very heavy, especially among males ; the registrar-general has shown that the pro- portion of infant deaths registered under " De- velopmental diseases" has increased for many years. Among children at school age the report shows that "children with developmental de- fects" amounted to 13'4 per cent of the boys and 9-6 per cent of the girls, and that a large proportion of these showed subnormal nerve signs and mental dulness, while 16"2 per cent of the boys and 26*3 per cent of the girls were pale, thin, or delicate, the proportions being highest at seven years and under. Many infants of low development and with small heads die of marasmus, others with broncho-pneumonia and whooping-cough; these cases add greatly to infant mortality among males, while more girls survive. Among the developmental cases that grow up the males remain most numerous, hut the females suffer the most; the proportion of girls with ill-health and mental dulness increases with advancing years, and seems to lead to more permanent lowered capacity. To illustrate the usefulness of including de- scriptions of physiognomy and expression in the clinical record of a case, I conclude with the following example qiioted from my recent work, The Nervous System of the Child. A CHILD OF NERVOUS TYPE Age last birthday, 14 years. Name, Girl. A. Body : Development, Features, etc. Head.—Of good volume and well shaped; circumference 21'5 inches. Forehead broad and high. Face.—Features in good proportion. Eye- openings and mouth of sufficient size. Ears.—Well made in rim and pleat of the ear, alike on either side. Nose.—Normal; breathes with lips closed. Palate.—Sufficiently wide ; good teeth, not crowded. Growth. — Height 60'5 inches (average for age, 60'32 inches). The body well proportioned hands and feet rather small. B. Nerve Signs : Postures, Movements, Action General Balance of Body.—Does not stand straight or keep quite still. Shoulders not at same level; feet unequally planted. Expression.—Bright and changeful; a spread- ing smile often seen, and sometimes twitching of the mouth. OrbicMlaris oculi.—Want of good tone about the lower eyelids, but this disappears when interested and in smiling. Eye-Movements.—Can fix eyes well, but they often wander when not directed. Head Balance. — Head not bent down, but often falls a little to one side, or is turned about. Hands.—Held out promptly in response, the left a little lower than the right, while neither is on a level with the shoulder. Each balances in the "nervous posture," especially the left; this becomes more marked if the effort is main- tained ; there are some twitchings of the fingers. This action is accompanied by some bending of the lower part of the spine, while the shoulders are thrown back. Response is prompt; action is quick and well imitated from others, but is often accompanied by some extra-movements, besides those under control. Indications of Modes of Brain Action Spontaneity. — Fidgets while standing, feet shuffle, fingers twitch. The head is often turned about, the eyes wander, she smiles frequently, and is active in play. Impressionability.—Quick to receive all im- pressions ; looks at every one who speaks in the class ; is not always completely under control. Inhibition.—While prompt to stand when directed, there remains some fidgeting of the hands with the dress or hair; she is never quite still.487 PHYSIOGNOMY AND EXPRESSION Control through Senses.—Good capacity ; but sometimes listens and looks about instead of seeing the blackboard or map demonstration. At times starts or fidgets when spoken to. Muscle Sense. — Appreciates and compares weights in the hands well; knows coins by feeling them. Estimates dimensions better by feeling with the hands than at sight. Compound Cerebration. — Physical exercises well performed; can lead the class without being guided. Proceeds systematically to ex- amine and describe a flower as previously taught. Generally repeats a lesson correctly. Betentiveness.—Memory really good ; but for- gets where to find things from not looking to see when putting them away; can retain facts learnt, but does not always use them aright. Co-07-dination. — Imitates hand movements well, but is not quite accurate; such action is often accompanied by some extra-movements. Speaks well. Good at games. Spreading Area.-—Extra-movements with the pen are seen before writing ; while at times the fingers twitch on the pen. The head often turns upwards while thinking, or is held on one side when speaking, or when the hands are held out. She tends to laughter and talkativeness. Sometimes there is confusion in replies; facts of history are remembered, but given in the wrong- place. Response.—Quick both in action and in words ; generally without a pause for thinking. C. Physical Health and Nutrition.—Not pale, but a little thin for her stature ; weight 98 lbs. Average weight for age is 100'32 lbs.: but this child is a little above the average height; further, she has probably not yet com- pleted her growth, which last year increased by 1"75 inches, as against an average of 1"57 for her age, while weight increased only 8 lbs. as compared with the average, which is 9'14 lbs. School Report.—In disposition affectionate ; sometimes loses self-control, and is emotional or passionate. Physiologry. PAET I.—The Tissues and Neuro-muscular Mechanism 1. Protoplasm ..... 488 II. The Cell 492 III. The Tissues 495 A. Vegetative Tissues .... 495 Epithelium . . . . .495 Connective Tissues . . .497 B. Master Tissues . . . .501 Muscle 502 Nerve ...... 516 IV. The Neuro-muscular Mechanism . 521 (1) The Neural Arcs . . . .522 (2) The Mode of Action of the Arcs . 523 A. Spinal Arcs in Reflex Action . 523 B. Brain Arcs in Reflex Action . 526 Neuro-muscular Mechanism (contd.) — (3) Fatigue of the Neuro - muscular Mechanism . . . .527 (4) The Chief Receptor Mechanisms . 527 The Sejises . . . .527 A. Intero-ceptive Mechanism . . 527 Common Sensibility and Pain . 527 B. Proprio-ceptive Spinal Mechanism 528 Kinesthetic Sense . . .528 C. Extero-ceptive Mechanisms . . 528 The Special Senses . . .528 a. Non-distance Receptors . . 528 a. For Contact (Tactile Sense) . 528 /3. For Addition and Withdraival of Heat {Thermal Sense) . 530 y. For Chemical Stimuli {Sense of Taste) . . . .531 b. Distance Receptors . . . 532 a. For Chemical Stimuli (Sense of Smell . . . .532 y8. For Ethereal Vibration {Sense of Sight) . . . .533 y. For Vibration of the Air {Sense of Hearing) . . 545 D. Proprio-ceptive Mechanism of the Head {Labyrinthine Sense) . 548 (5) The Connection between Receiving and Reacting Mechanisms . 549 1. The Spinal Nerves . . . 549 2. The Cent7-al Nervous System . 552 A. Spinal Cord .... 552 B. Medulla Oblongata and Cranial Nerves ..... 557 C. Pons 559 D. Cerebelhim .... 559 E. Ci'ura Cei-ebri and Corpora Quadrigemina . . .562 F. Cerebrum .... 562 See also Adrenal Glands {Physiology); Alcohol {Physiology); Anesthesia, Physi- ology ; Blood, Physiology of ; Brain, Physi- ology OF; Child, Development of ; Colour Vision ; Diet ; Digestion ; Embryology ; En- zymes ; Equilibrium ; Faeces ; Fallopian Tubes {Physiology); Fifth Nerve ; F(etus ; Food ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Glosso- pharyngeal Nerve ; Glycosuria ; Heart, Physi- ology OF ; Heredity ; Hypertrophy ; Hypo- glossal Nerve ; Immunity ; Infant-Feeding ; Intestines {Physiological Considerations); Kid- ney, Physiology op ; Labour, Physiology ; Lacrimal Apparatus {Physiology); Leucocyto- sis; Liver, Physiology of ; Memory in Health AND Disease ; Meninges of the Cerebrum {Physiology); Menopause ; Menstruation ; Micro-Organisms ; Milk; New-born Infant {Physiological Peculiarities); Pancreas, Physi- ology OF; Peritoneum, Physiology ; Pig- ments ; Pregnancy, Physiology ; Puerpbrhim, Physiology of ; Pulse ; Pupil ; Respiration \ Retina ; Salivary Glands ; Skin, Physiology OP ; Sleep ; Stomach {Physiology); Tempera-PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 488 TURK; Tendon-Jerks ; Thymus Gland ; Thy- roid Gland ; Tonsils ; Uric Acid ; Urine ; Vagus Nerve ; Vision, Field of ; etc. Section f;^PR0T0PLASM The first step in the study of physiology must be to acquire as clear and definite a conception as possible of the nature of protoplasmic activity in its most simple and uncomplicated form, for in this way an idea of the essential and non- essential characteristics of life may best be gained. I. Structure.—Protoplasm is a semi-fluid trans- parent viscous substance. It usually occurs in small individual particles—cells—more or less associated, but it may occur as larger confluent masses—plasmodia. Sometimes protoplasm seems perfectly homo- geneous, but generally a reticulated appearance can be made out even in the living condition (Fig. 1), and from this it has been concluded b e Fia. 1.—a, Foam structure of a mixture of olive oil and cane sugar ; b, reticulated structure of protoplasm; c, reticulated structure of protoplasm in the cell of an earth-worm. (After Biitschli.) that there is a more solid part arranged like the fibres of a sponge, or like the films of a mass of soap-bubbles, with a more fluid inter- stitial part. In all protoplasm, therefore, there seems to be a certain amount of organisation, and in certain cells this organisation becomes very marked indeed. II. Phydology.—A knowledge of the essen- tials of physiology of protoplasm may be gained by studying the vital manifestations of one of the simplest of living things, the yeast plant (Saccharomyces Cerevisse). This plant consists of very minute oval or spherical bodies frequently connected to form chains, each composed of a harder outer cover- ing or capsule and of a softer inner substance which has all the characters of protoplasm. Its physiology may be studied by placing a few torulae in a solution, containing glucose, CgH^gOg, and urea, CONjH^, with traces of phosphate of soda, Na^HPO^, and sulphate of potash, KgSO^. If the vessel be kept all night in a warm place the clear solution will in the morning be seen to be turbid. An examination of a drop of the fluid shows that the turbidity is due to the presence of myriads of torulse. In a few hours the few torulee placed in the fluid have increased many hundred-fold. The whole mass of yeast has grown in amount by the growth and multiplication of the individual units. This power of growth and reproduction under suitable conditions is the essential characteristic of living matter. What are the conditions necessary for the manifestation of these phenomena of life? 1. If the yeast be mixed with the solid con- stituents of the solution in a dry state no growth or reproduction occurs. Water is essential. 2. If the yeast, mixed with the solution, be kept at the freezing point no growth takes place, but this proceeds actively at about 36° C. A certain temperature is necessary for the vitality of protoplasm. In the absence of these condi- tions, protoplasm is only potentially alive, and in this state it may remain for long periods without undergoing any change, as in the seeds of plants and in dried bacteria. The conditions essential for the manifestations of life being present, in order that the growth of the yeast may take place, there must be:— (a) A supply of material from which it can be formed. {b) A supply of energy to bring about the construction. (a) The chemical elements in protoplasm are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus. These elements are contained in the ingredients of the solution used. If yeast be sown in distilled water, even if it be kept at a temperature of 36° C. it does not grow. (/;) The energy is got by the breaking down of the sugar, G^^^l■^^^OQ, into alcohol, CgHgO, and carbon dioxide, CO2. Such a breaking down of a complex into simpler molecules liberates energy, as is well seen when nitro-glycerine explodes, breaking into carbon dioxide, water, oxygen, and nitrogen— 2C3H5(N03)3 = 6CO2 + 5H2O + 0 -t- 6N. The energy can be used for the performance of work of any kind, as, for example, the work of building up a fresh quantity of the yeast plant out of the substances contained in the solution. The history of the yeast plant shows that protoplasm, tvhen placed in suitable co7idi- tions, lias the p>ower of breaking down certain complex substances, and of ^otilising the energy liberated for building itself up). It is this power which has enabled living matter to exist and to extend over the earth. How does protoplasm liberate the potential energy of such siibstances ? The answer to this question has been given by the demonstration by Buchner that the ex- pressed juice of the yeast torulse acts on the sugar in the same way as the living yeast. The yeast therefore manufactures somethingPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 489 which splits the sugar. This something belongs to the group of Enzymes or Zymins which play so important a part in physiology generally. These enzymes all act by hastening reactions which go on slowly without their presence, but they do not themselves take any direct part in the reaction. Hence a very small quantity may bring about an extensive change in the sub- stance acted upon. For the manifestation of their activity they require the presence of water and a suitable temperature-in the case of the yeast enzyme about 36° C. is the best. At lower temperatures the reaction becomes slower and is finally stopped, and at a higher temperature it is delayed and finally arrested by the destruction of the enzyme. Sometimes these enzymes lead to a complete decomposition of the substance upon which they act, but this is often prevented by a checking influence exerted by the accumulation of the products of their action, e.g. by the alcohol developed from the sugar. With certain enzymes at least, the action may actually be reversed if the enzyme is brought in contact with the final products of decomposition. Thus the enzyme which splits esters into their components may cause a linking of those components to form esters. In this respect they simply aid the establishment of an equilibrium between the component substances in the reaction. The general action of the enzymes has been termed katalytic. It may be compared to the action of an acid in the inversion of cane sugar— Ci2H220n + H20 = 2(CeHi20^,). Here the acid merely hastens a reaction which would go on slowly in the presence of water alone. The precise way in which such katalytic actions are bi'ought about is still not quite clear, but there is evidence that the agent acts as a middleman between the reacting sub- stances, in the case of H^Og taking up the 0 and then liberating it—in the case of the de- composition of cane sugar taking up H.2O and handing it on; just as in the oxidation of glucose, which occurs when it is boiled with an alkali, a metallic oxide, such as cuprous oxide, may take oxygen from the air and hand it on to the glucose, thus making the oxidation more rapid. Living yeast difi'ers from these dead sub- stances simply in the fact that it w-ses the energy liberated from the glucose. In virtue of this, the yeast has the power of repair and of growth. But protoplasm is also constantly breaking down, and if yeast be kept at a suitable temper- ature in water without any supply of material for construction, it gives off' carbon dioxide and decreases in bulk on account of these disin- tegrative changes. These are as essential a part of the life of living matter as the building-up changes, and it is only when they are in progress that the latter are possible. Protoplasm (living matter) is living only in virtue of its constant chemical changes—meta- bolism—and these changes are on the one hand destructive {katabolic)., on the other constructive (anabolic). Living matter thus differs from dead matter simply in this respect, that side by side with destructive changes, constructive changes are always going on, whereby its amount is maintained or increased. Hence our conception of living matter is not of a definite chemical substance, but of a sub- stance constantly undergoing internal changes. It might be compared to a whirlpool constantly dragging things into its vortex, and constantly throwing them out more or less changed, but itself continuing apparently unchanged through- out. Hoppe-Seyler expresses this by saying: " The life of all organisms depends upon, or, one can almost say, is identical with, a chain of chemical changes." Foster puts the same idea in more fanciful language : " We may speak of protoplasm as a complex substance, but we must strive to realise that what we mean by that is a complex whirl, an intricate dance, of which, what we call chemical composition, histo- logical structure, and gross configuration are, so to speak, the figures." The rate of these chemical processes may be quickened or slowed by changes in the sur- roundings, and such changes are called stimuli. If the stimulus increases the rate of change, it is said to excite; if it diminishes the rate of change, it is said to depress. Thus the activity of the changes in yeast may be accelerated by a slight increase of the temperature of the sur- rounding medium, or it may be depressed by the addition of such a substance as chloroform water. While the continuance of these chemical changes in protoplasm is life, their stoppage is death. For the continuance of life the building- up changes must be in excess of or equal to the breaking-down. The evolution of energy must be sufficient for growth and maintenance. It is only the surplus over this which is available for external work. In youth the surplus energy is largely used for growth, in manhood for work. When failure in the supply or in the utilisation of the energy - yielding material occurs, the protoplasm dwindles and disintegrates. Death is sudden when the chemical changes are abruptly stopped, slow when the anabolic changes are interfered with. The series of changes which occur between the infliction of an incurable injury and complete disintegration of the tissue constitute the processes of Necro- biosis, and their study is of importance in pathology. III. Chemistry.—It is impossible to analyse such an ever-changing substance as protoplasm, and although what is left when these chemical changes are stopped can be examined, such analyses give little insight into the essential nature of the living matter.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM 490 Tbat substances of great complexity take part in the constant whirl is shown by the analyses of what is left after death. Five or six elements—carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitro- gen, sulphur, and phosphorus—are present, and these are linked together to form molecules of enormous size. Water is the most abundant constituent of protoplasm, amounting, as it does, to about 75 per cent. The solids, constituting the remaining 25 per cent, consist chiefly of a series of bodies closely allied to one another and called " chief sub- stances " or Proteins. In addition to these, certain inorganic salts are found in the ash when protoplasm is burned, indicating the presence of potassium and calcium along with phosphorus and sulphur. The inorganic salts, and especially their kations, appear to be of considerable importance in maintaining the activity of protoplasm, and their possible mode of action will be considered later. Small and varying quantities of fats, and of carbo- hydrates, with traces of a number of other organic substances which need not here be enumerated, are also usually present. Of these substances the proteins alone have to be considered here, since they constitute the really important part of the material. Proteins White of egg or the juice of meat may be taken as examples of such proteins dissolved in water with some salts. If the salts be separated, and the water carefully driven off at a low temperature, a pure protein is left. (A) Physical Characters.—The proteins from the residue of living matter—the Native Pro- teins, as they may be called—have a white, yellow, or brownish colour. In structure they are usually amorphous, but many have been prepared in a crystalline condition, and it is probable that all may take a crystalline form. The crystals vary in shape, being usually small and needle-like, but sometimes forming larger rhombic plates. Some proteins form apparent solutions in water, others require the presence of neutral inorganic salts, others of an acid or alkali, while some are completely insoluble without a change in their constitvition. All are insoluble in alcohol and ether. When in solution, or apparent solution, the native proteins do not dialyse through an animal membrane. They are colloids. Other colloidal bodies reacting much like the proteins have been prepared synthetically by chemists— e.g. by heating together amido - benzoic acid and phosphoric anhydride. Like other colloids proteins tend to coagulate, forming a clot just as, for instance, silicic acid may clot when carbon dioxide is passed through its solution. The native proteins are coagulated by simply heating their solution. All proteins rotate the plane of polarised light to the left. (B) Chemistry.—Proteins contain the follow- ing chemical elements: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur, in about the following percentage amounts :— c. 52 H. 7 N. i6 o. 24 It is important to remember the amounts of nitrogen and carbon, since proteins are the sole source of the former element in the food and an important source of the latter. As regards the number of atoms of these elements which go to form a single molecule, information has been obtained by studying compounds with various metals. The following probable formula of the molecule of the chief protein of the white of egg is given simply to show how complex these substances are: The constitution of the protein molecule has been investigated first by studying the products of the decomposition of the molecule by various agents, and second, by attempting to build up the molecule by the synthesis of the products of disintegration. 1. Products of Decomposition.—The native proteins in solution tend to break down into a series of simpler bodies, and this decomposition is greatly hastened by the action of acids or alkalies or of certain enzymes. A series of more and more simple molecules are thus pro- duced which, as they decrease in complexity, give solutions which are less and less colloidal and less and less easily precipitated by alcohol or by neutral salts, till, finally, products are yielded which no longer give the protein tests, which are freely soluble in alcohol, and which have the characteristics of amino acids. Along with these, certain by-products are also given off. The different stages of the disintegration of the native protein molecule may be arranged as follows:— Native Proteins. Proteoses. Peptones. Polypeptides. Dipepticles. Amino Acids (mono-and di-)- O •a <u S -» ■'"So -0. = ^ gP3491 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Of the mon-amino acids thus formed, Leucin —amino-caproic acid—is generally the most abundant. Of the mon-amino acids linked to the benzene nucleus, Tyrosin—in which amino-proprionic acid is linked to a benzene ring with one H replaced by OH—is the most important. It is these acids with the benzene ring which give the xanthoproteic test—an orange colour when ammonia is added to a protein heated with nitric acid. In most proteins the di-amino acids are less abundant than the mon-amino, and in some they are absent. But in a simple form of protein, discovered by Kossel, linked with nucleic acid in the heads of spermatozoa and called by him Protamine, these diamino acids constitute about 80 per cent of the molecule. While these amino acids are normally con- verted to urea before being excreted, in certain states of the metabolism they appear in the urine. The amides are always present in small amount, linked together as in biuret HjN— CO—NH—CO—NHg, and it is these which give the biuret test—the pink or violet when sodic hydrate is added to the protein with which a trace of cupric sulphate has been mixed. The pyrrhol derivatives are ring formations of four carbons linked by an amidogen— H—C—C—H II II H—C C—H N H They are seen in indol and its derivatives, where a pyrrhol ring is attached to the benzene ring, thus— They are apt to split off from the protein still linked to amino-acetic acid. The presence of indol in the protein molecule explains the purple reaction when a protein is treated with glyoxylic acid and sulphuric acid —Adamkiewicz's reaction. 2. Synthesis of the Products of Disintegration. —Emil Fischer and his co-workers have suc- ceeded in building up from the amino acids a series of bodies containing two, four, and as many as ten of the amino acid molecules, linked to one another in series, the OH of the hydroxyl of one being linked on to the amidogen of the other with the giving off of HgO, thus :— H 0 OH H H H 0 i II t t I I II N—C—C N—C—C—OH H H Amino-acetic acid. Amino-acetic acid. Glycin. Glycin. Glycyl-glycin. This he calls glycyl-glycin,—the amino acids which have lost the OH of the acid being characterised by the terminal yl. Such compounds he calls Peptides, character- ising them, according to the number of mole- cules linked, as Di-, Tri-, Tetra-, and Poly- peptides. Some of the higher of these give the biuret test for proteins from the presence of the linked CO.NH, group ; and if an acid with the benzene ring is in the chain, they also give the xantho- proteic test. He has also succeeded in building the pyrrhol derivative, pyrrholidine carbonic acid, or prolin as he calls it, into polypeptides. (C) Classification of the Proteins (A) Sirtiide Proteins.—1. Native Proteins.— These proteins, either alone, or combined with certain other substances, are constant ingre- dients of dead protoplasm and of the fluid constituents of the body. They are distin- guished from all other proteins by being coagu- lated on heating. There are two groups—Globulins and Albu- mins — the former characterised by being insoluble in distilled water, by requiring the presence of a small quantity of a neutral salt to form a solution, and by being precipitated from solution by half saturating with ammonium sulphate. 2. Proteoses (Proteins with a less complex molecule than albumins and globulins).—They may be formed from albumins (albumoses) and globulins (globuloses) by the action of super- heated steam and during digestion. Under the influence of these agents, the complex molecule splits into simpler molecules and takes up water. These proteoses form a series between the original proteins on the one hand, and the peptones or simplest proteins on the other. They may be divided into two classes:— (a) Those nearly allied to the original pro- teins— Protoproteoses, which are precipitated in a saturated solution of sodium chloride, NaCl. (6) Those more nearly allied to the peptones —^Deviteroproteoses, which are not precipitated in a saturated solution of NaCl, but are pre- cipitated by a saturated solution of ammonium sulphate. 3. Peptones. — These are products of the further splitting of proteoses. Their character-492 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM istic reaction is their solubility in hot saturated ammonium sulphate solution. They diffuse very readily through an animal membrane. (B) Conjugated Protein&. — Proteins have a great tendency to link with other substances, and the following compounds are thus produced :— (1) Pro<ea<e«y (Meta-proteins) are formed by linking acids or alkalies to the native proteins. (2) Nucleins, so called because their existence was first demonstrated in the nuclei or central parts of the cell of the body, may readily be split into a protein part and into nucleic acid, a phosphorus-containing material of definite com- position, having an acid reaction, and containing about 10 per cent of phosphorus. In certain places the amount of nucleic acid is large in proportion to the protein, in others it is small. The term nuclein is usually confined to the former, nucleo-alhumin to the latter of these. From the pure nucleic acid, which occurs along with protamine in the heads of spermatozoa, to the proteins almost free of phosphorus there is a continuous series. Nucleic acid, when decomposed, yields phos- phoric acid and a series of bodies called the purin bodies which belong to the class of diureides, and consist of two more or less modified urea molecules linked together by an oxy-acid with three carbons in series. (3) Phospho-Proteins.—Other compounds of proteins with phosphorus-containing molecules occur which do not yield purin bodies when decomposed. Of these vitellin, the protein of the yolk of egg, is an example. (4) Histories are probably proteins linked to protamine. They occur in the globin which may be separated from blood pigment. They have a basic reaction. (5) Glyco-Proteins.—Proteins are linked with sugar-like substances to form compounds, the best-known example of which is mucin. (6) Ghromo-Proteins.—In the pigment of the blood (Hsemoglobin) proteins occur linked to an iron-containing molecule. (C) Sdero-Proteins. — These are substances produced by protoplasm which are closely allied to the proteins—Keratin, Collagen, and Elastin. Their nature is considered under the tissues in which they are found. Section II.—The Cell Protoplasm occurs in the animal body as small separate masses or cells. These vary considerably in size, but, on an average, they are from 7 to 20 micro-millimetres ^ in diameter. The advantage of this subdivision is obvious. It allows nutrient matter to reach every particle of the protoplasm. In all higher animals each cell has a perfectly definite structure. It con- sists of a mass of pi'otoplasm, in which is situated a more or less defined body, the nucleus. 1 The micro-millimetre is the rs'orrth of a millimetre. (A) Cell Protoplasm.—This has the structure already described under protoplasm, and in different cells the reticulum or cytomitoma is differently arranged. In some cells there is a condensation of the reticulum, round the periphery, to form a sort of cell membrane. At some point in the protoplasm of many cells, one or two small spherical bodies, the centrosomes (Fig. 2), are found, from which Fig. 2.—Diagram of a cell to show structure of protoplasm and nucleus. In the protoplasm—A, attraction sphere enclosing two centrosomes; V, vacuole; C, included granules; D, plastids, present in some cells. In the nucleus—jB, nucle- olus ; F, chromatin networlj; G, llnin network; M, karyo- some or net-knot. (Wilson.) rays pass out in different directions. For the detection of these bodies special methods of staining and the use of very high magnifying powers are required. They will be again con- sidered when dealing with the reproduction of cells. The cell protoplasm frequently contains granules, either formed in the protoplasm, or consisting of material ingested by the cells. In the protoplasm, vacuoles are sometimes found, and from a study of these vacuoles in protozoa, it appears that they are often formed round material which has been taken into the protoplasm, and that they are filled with a fluid which can digest the nutritious part of the ingested particles. In some cells, vacuoles may appear in the process of disintegration. In certain cells protoplasm undergoes changes in shape. This may well be studied in the white cells in the blood of the frog or newt. Processes are pushed out, and these are again withdrawn, or the whole cell may gradually follow the process, and thus change its position. The processes are called pseudopodia (false feet), and the mode of movement, from its i-esemblance to that seen in the amoeba, is called amoeboid.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 493 The part played by the network (cytomitoma) and the more fluid part (cytoplasm) in these movements is not clearly understood. The pseudopodia are at first free of network; but whether the fluid is pressed out by contraction of the meshes, or whether it actively flows out, is not known. In some cells among the protozoa movements take place along some definite line, and the reticulum is arranged more or less parallel to the line of movement. Such contrac- tile processes, from their resemblance to muscles, have been termed myoids. In other protozoa the pseudopodia manifest a to-and-fro rhythmic waving movement, which may cause the cell to be moved along, or may cause the adjacent fluid to move over the cell. Such mobile processes when permanent have been called cilia. These movements are modified by the vari- ous stimuli which modify the activity of the chemical changes in the protoplasm. Thus, cooling diminishes, and finally stops them. Gentle heat increases them, but when a cer- tain temperature is reached, they are stopped. Drying and various drugs, such as chloroform, quinine, etc., also arrest the movements. Changes in the surroundings may cause either contraction or expansion, may repel or attract. When an attracting or a repelling influence, a positive or negative stimulus, acts at one side of the cell—unilateral stimulation— it may lead to movement of the cell away from it or towards it. Movements are produced by various chemical substances (chemiotaxis), or by light (phototaxis), or by electricity (galvano- taxis). If the action is towards the stimulus, it is said to be positive, if away from it negative. Chemiotaxis is the attraction or repulsion produced by one-sided application of chemical stimuli. This is well seen in the plasmodial masses of sethalium septicum which grow on tan. Oxygen and water both attract it towards them, and exercise a positive chemiotaxis. It is also seen in the streaming of the white cells of the blood to disintegrating tissues, or to various micro-organisms which have to be de- stroyed to prevent their poisoning the organism, and in the attraction exercised by the ovum vipon the male element in reproduction. Barotaxis is the effect of unilateral pressure or mechanical stimulation. Many protozoa appear quite unable to leave the solid substance —e.g. the microscope slide—with which they are in contact, the unilateral pressure seeming to cause a positive attraction in that direction. Phototaxis.—Light, which plays so important a part in directing the movements of the higher plants, also acts positively or negatively on many unicellular organisms. Thus the swarm spores of certain algse are positively attracted by moderate illumination streaming to the source of light, while they are negatively stimu- lated by strong light and stream away from it. Light also plays an important part in directing the movements of certain bacteria. Thermotaxis. — The unilateral influence of temperature is well seen in the plasmodium of Eethalium septicum which streams from cold water towards water at a temperature of about 30° C. Galvanotaxis. — As would naturally be ex- pected from its stimulating action, a current of electricity has a most powerfiil effect in directing the movements of many cells. Cer- tain infusoria when brought between the poles of a galvanic battery may be observed to stream towards the negative pole. * The effects of this unilateral stimulation are of great importance in physiology and patho- logy, since they explain the streaming of leuco- cytes to attack micro-organisms and other poisons to the animal body, and since they seem to explain many of the apparently voli- tional acts of unicellular organisms. Many of these organisms appear definitely to select certain foods, but in reality they are simply compelled towards them by this unilateral stimvilation. (B) Nucleus.—(1) Structure.—The nucleus, seen with a moderate magnifying power, appears in most cells as a well-defined circular or oval body situated towards the centi-e of the cell (Figs. 1 (c) and 2). Sometimes it is obscured by the surrounding protoplasm. It has a granular appearance, and usually one or more clear refractile bodies—the nucleoli—are seen within it. It stains deeply with many reagents of a basic reaction, such as hsematoxylin, car- mine, methylene blue, etc. In some cells the nucleus is irregular in shape, and in some it is broken up into a number of pieces, giving the cell a multi-nucleated character. It is usually composed of (a) fibres arranged in the complicated network (Fig. 2). These fibres appear to be of two kinds: (1) forming a network similar to the cytomitoma—the linin network, G ; and (2) forming generally a coarser network, the fibres of which have a special affinity for basic stains—the chromatin network, F. The chromatin substance contains a large amount of nucleic acid, and its richness in phos- phorus has been demonstrated by treating the cells with ammonium molybdate and pyrogallol, which colours parts rich in phosphorus of a brown or black tint. The chromatin fibres vary in their arrange- ment in different cells. Usually they form a network, but occasionally they are disposed as a continuous skein. In nuclei, with the former arrangement of fibres, swellings may be observed where the fibres unite with one another—the nodal swellings, or karyosomes, distinct from the nucleolus. The resting nucleus appears to be surrounded by a distinct nuclear membrane, which is, however, probably really a basket-like interlacement of the fibres at the periphery.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 494 Between the fibres is (b) a more fluid material which may be called the nuclear plasma or karyoplasm. Digestion in the stomach removes the nuclear plasma, but leaves the network unacted upon. (2) Function^^ The part taken by the nucleus in the general life of the cell is not yet fully understood. \st. It exercises an in- fluence on the nutritive processes, since it has been observed in certain of the large cells in lower organisms that a piece of the protoplasm detached from the nucleus ceases to grow, and, after a time, dies. Important interchanges of material go on betvveen the nucleus and the protoplasm. 2nd. It is the great reproductive organ of the cell, probably playing an important part in transmitting inherited characters. Reproduction of Cells.—Cells do not go on growing indefinitely. When they reach a cer- tain size they generally either divide, to form two new cells, or they die and undergo de- generative changes. The reason of this is pos- sibly to be found in the well-known physical fact that, as a sphere increases in size, the mass increases more rapidly than the periphery. Hence, as a cell becomes larger and larger, the surface for nourishment becomes smaller and smaller in relationship to the mass of material to be nourished. Probably the altered meta- bolism so produced sets up the changes which lead to the division of the cell. These changes have now been very carefully studied in a large number of cells, and it has been shown that the nucleus generally takes a most important part in division. Mitosis.—In a cell about to divide, the first change is a general enlargement of the nucleus. At the same time the centrosome becomes double, and the two portions travel from one another, but remain united by delicate lines to form a spindle-shaped structure (Fig. 3, 1). The spindle passes into the centre of the nucleus, and seems to direct the changes in the reticu- lum. The nuclear membrane disappears, and the nucleus is thus not so sharply marked off" from the cell protoplasm. The nucleoli and nodal points also disappear, and with them all the finer fibrils of the network, leaving only the stouter fibres, which are now arranged either in a skein or as loops with their closed extremity to one pole of the nucleus and their open ex- tremity to the other. The nucleus no longer seems to contain a network, but appears to be filled with a convoluted mass of coarse fibres, and hence this stage of nuclear division is called the convoluted stage. The spindle continues to grow until it occu- pies the whole length of the nucleus. The two centrosomes are now very distinct, and from them a series of radiating lines extends out into the protoplasm of the cell. The nuclear loops of fibres break up into short, thick pieces; and these become arranged around the equator of the spindle in a radiating manner, so that when the nucleus is viewed from one end it has the appearance of a rosette or a conventional star. This stage of the pro- cess is hence often called the single star or monaster stage (Fig. 3, 2). Each loop now splits longitudinally into two, the divisions lying side by side (Fig. 3, 2). The next change consists in the separation 3. 4. Fig. 3.—Nucleus in mitosis : 1. Convoluted stage. 2. Monaster stage. 3. Dyaster stage, i. Complete division. from one another of the two halves of the split loops—one half of each passing up towards the one polar body, the other half passing towards the other. It is the looped parts which first separate and which lead the way—the open ends of the loops remaining in contact for a longer period, but, finally, also separating. In this way, around each polar body, a series of looped fibres gets arranged in a radiating manner, so that the nucleus now contains two rosettes or stars, and this stage of division is hence called the dyaster stage (Fig. 3, 3). The single nucleus is now practically double. Gradually in each half finer fibres develop and produce the reticular appearance. Nuclear nodes, nucleoli, and the nuclear membrane ap- pear, and thus two resting nuclei are formed from a single nucleus. Between these two nuclei a delicate line appears, dividing the cell in two, and the division is accomplished (Fig. 3, 4). The network of the nucleus of actively divid- ing cells is rich in nucleic acid, but in cells which have ceased to divide, in which the nucleus has ceased to exercise its great reproductive function, the amount of phosphorus — i.e. of nucleic acid—diminishes, and may be actually less than the amount in the cell protoplasm.495 PHYSIOLOGY -TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Amitotic Division.—In seme cells the nucleus does not appear to take an active part, the cell dividing without the characteristic changes above discussed. Section III.—The Tissues From the protoplasm of the cells the various tissues of the body—bone, cartilage, muscle, etc.—are formed. The structure of these must be studied practically; all that will be attempted here is to indicate how they are formed from the primitive cell. The human body is originally a single cell, and from this, by division, a mass of simple cells is produced. In the embryo, these cells get arranged in three layers—an outer, a middle, and an inner — the epiblast^ mesoblast, and hypoblast. {A) The Vegetative Tissues The Vegetative Tissues are those which sup- port, bind together, protect, and nourish the body. They may be divided into the Epithelial Tissues, formed from the epiblast or hypoblast, and consisting of cells placed upon surfaces, and the Connective Tissues developed from the meso- blast, and consisting chiefly of formed material between cells. I. Epithelium 1. Squamous Epithelium. — (a) Simple Squamous Epithelium.—This is seen lining the air vesicles of the lungs. It consists of a single layer of flat, scale-like cells, each with a central nucleus. The outlines of these cells are made manifest by staining with nitrate of silver, which blackens the cement substance between the cells. {b) Stratified Squamo^is Epithelium (Fig. 4). —The skin and the lining membrane of the Fig. 4.—stratified squamous epithelium from the cornea. mouth and gullet are covered by several layers of cells. The deeper cells divide, and as the young ones get pushed upwards towards the surface, and away from the nourishing fluids of the body, their nutrition is interfered with, and the protoplasm undergoes a change into a body closely allied in composition to the proteins, keratin. This substance is a hard, horny ma- terial, which is well seen in the nails and hair, and in the horns and hoofs of certain animals. It first makes its appearance as a number of little masses or granules in the cells, and these run together to fill the cells which from pressure become flattened out into thin scales. Keratin forms an admirable protective cover- ing to the body, not only on account of its hard- ness and toughness, but because poisons cannot readily pass through it, and also because it is not easily acted on by chemicals. Like the proteins, it contains carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur; and the first four of these elements are in about the same proportion as in the proteins. But the sulphur is in greater proportion (3 to 5 per cent), and readily enters into combination with various substances. Hence, lead solutions colour keratin black by forming the black sulphide of lead, and are largely used as hair dyes. (c) Transitional Epithelium.—A slightly modi- fied stratified squamous epithelium lines the urinary passages. It is characterised by the more columnar or pear-like shape of the deeper layers of cells. 2. Columnar Epithelium (Fig. 5, a).—The inmost set of cells in the embryo lining the a Fig. 5.—a, Columnar epithelium from the small intestine ; 6, ciliated epithelium from the trachea. stomach and intestine, elongate at right angles to their plane of attachment, and become colum- nar in shape. The free border of the cells looks like a hem, an appearance which is due to a series of short rods placed side by side. Probably this is a special development of the reticulum of the protoplasm. The great func- tion of this form of epithelium is to take up the digested matter from the stomach and intestine, and to pass it on to the blood. Among these columnar cells a certain number of peculiarly modified cells—chalice cells—are always found. They are larger than the col- umnar cells, and somewhat pear-shaped, being attached by their small extremity. Their protoplasm is collected at their point of attach- ment, while the body of the cell is filled with mucin, a clear, transparent material.496 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Secreting Epithelium. — A number of cells, having for their function the production of some material which is to be excreted from the cell, are arranged as the lining of depressions, the glands. The simplestte-m of gland is the simple tubular —a test-tube-like depression, lined by secreting cells. Instead of being simple, the tube may- be branched, when the gland is said to be race- mose. In many glands the secreting epithelium is confined to the deeper part of the tube, the alveolus or acinus (Fig. 6), while the more superficial part is lined by cells which do not secrete, forming the duct. In many situations several simple glands are grouped together, their ducts opening into one common duct, and a compound gland results. Secreting epithelium varies according to the material it produces. (A) Mucin-secreting Epithelium.—Many glands have for their function the production of mucus, a slimy substance of use in lubricating the mouth, stomach, intestine, etc. The acini con- taining svich cells are usually large. The cells themselves are large, and are placed on a delicate basement membrane, a condensation of the subjacent fibrous tissue, which bounds the acinus. The nuclei are situated near to the attached margin of the cells, which are somewhat irregular in shape, and are packed close together. Their appearance varies accord- ing to whether the gland has been at rest or has been actively secreting. Resting State.—In the former case, in the fresh condition, the cells are large, and pressed closely together. Their protoplasm is filled with large shining granules. After treatment with reagents, each cell becomes distended with clear, transparent mucin formed by the swelling and coalescence of the granules. After Activity. — After the gland has been actively secreting, the cells are smaller and the granules are much less numerous, being chiefly situated at the free extremity of the cell, and leaving the nucleus much more apparent. This form of epithelium, during the resting condition of the gland, takes up nourishing matter and forms this mucin-yielding substance. During the active state of the gland the mucin- yielder is changed to mucin, and is extruded from the cells into the lumen of the gland. Mucin is a substance of great importance in the animal economy. When precipitated and freed from water it is white and amorphous. On the addition of water it swells up and forms a glairy mass. In the presence of alkalies it forms a more or less viscous solution, and from this sokition it is precipitated by acetic acid. In composition it is a protein linked to a molecule allied to the sugars, glucosamine CyH^-^NH205, and is therefore called a giyco-protein. When boiled with an acid it yields sugar. In adult life the great function of mucin is to give to certain secretions a slimy character which renders them of value as lubricants. (B) Zymin - secreting Epithelium. — Another form of secreting epithelium of great import- ance is that which forms the various juices which act upon the food to digest it. These juices owe their activity to the presence of enzymes or zymins. A zymin-forming gland after a pro- longed period of rest shows cells closely packed together, so that it is difficult to make out their borders. The protoplasm is loaded with granules which are much smaller than those seen in the mucin- forming cells, and which do not swell up in the same way, under the action of re- agents. The nucleus is often obscured by the presence of these granules. When the gland has been actively secreting, the granules become fewer in number, and are confined to the free ex- tremity of the cell; they are obviously passing out. The cell becomes smaller, and its outline is more distinct and the nucleus more apparent. The granules which fill the cells are not composed of the active enzyme. If extracts of the living cells be made, they are inert, and it is only after the granules have left the cell, or are in the process of leaving, that they become active. Hence, the granules are said to be com- posed of zymin-forming substance or zymogen. The series of changes are parallel to those described in the mucin-forming cells. During the so-called resting state of the gland, the cells are building up zymogen. When the gland is active, the cells throw off the material they have accumulated, and it undergoes a change to zymin. (C) Excreting epithelium does not manufacture materials of use in the animal economy, but passes substances out of the body. Such epi- thelium is seen in the kidneys, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, mammary glands, and perhaps in the liver. The cells are composed of a granular protoplasm, in which the presence ofPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 497 the material to be excreted either in its fully elaborated condition, or in process of prepara- tion, may frequently be demonstrated—e.g. fat globules, iron-containing particles. These cells do not merely take up material from the blood and pass it out, but they may profoundly alter it before getting rid of it. 4. Ciliated Epithelium (Fig. 5).—The cells are usually more or less columnar, and the free border is provided with a series of hair-like processes, the cilia, which vary in size in different situations. In the living state the cilia are in constant rhythmic motion, each cilium being suddenly whipped or bent down in one direction, and then again assuming the erect position. All the cilia on a surface work harmoniously in the same direction, and the movement passes from the cilia of one cell to those of the next in regular order, beginning at one end of the surface and passing to the other. As a result of this constant harmonious rhythmic movement, any matter lying upon the surface is steadily whipped along it; and since the cilia usually work from the inner parts of the body to the outside, this matter is finally expelled from the body. The movements of the cilia are dependent on the changes in the protoplasm, and everything which influences the rate of chemical change modifies the rate of ciliary movement, which may thus be taken as an index of the proto- plasmic activity. II. Connective Tissues 1. Mucoid Tissue.—The cells of the meso- blast of the embryo, which at first lie in close apposition with one another, become separated, remaining attached by elongated processes. Between the cells, a clear, transparent substance makes its appearance, forming a soft jelly-like tissue. This tissue is widely distributed in the embryo as a precursor of the connective tissues. 2. Fibrous Tissue. — As development ad- vances, the cells of mucoid tissue elongate and become spindle-shaped, and are continued at their ends into fibres (Fig. 8). These cells are often called fibroblasts. Fig. 8.—Fibroblasts from young fibrous tissue. The connective tissues are thus clearly dis- tinguished from the epithelia by having the formed material between and not in the cells. They are composed of the following parts :— I. Formed material. {a) Fibres. (5) Matrix. II. Spaces (Connective Tissue Spaces). III. Cells. I. Formed Material.—(A) Fibres (Fig. 9)— Fl8. 7.—Mucoid tissue from an embryo rabbit. and after birth it is still to be seen in the pulp of a developing tooth and in the vitreous humour of the eye (Fig. 7). VOL. Vll FIG. 9.—Bundles of white fibres, with fibroblasts (a) and elastic fibres anastomosing with one another (6). \st. Non-elastic (White Fibres). These are delicate, transparent fibrils arranged in bundles, which do not branch, and which have a mucin-like matrix between them. They are composed of a non-elastic substance, collagen. This is closely allied to the pro- teins, and gives the protein re- actions faintly, but it does not yield tyrosin when decomposed, while it does yield amino-acetic acid. It is insoluble in cold water, but swells up and becomes transparent in acetic acid. It has a great affinity for carmine, and stains a pink colour with it. When boiled, it takes up water to form a hydrate. Gelatin, a sub- stance soluble in hot water, and forming a jelly on cooling. 2nd. Elastic Fibres. These are highly re- fractile elastic fibres, which branch and anasto- 32498 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM mose with one another. They are composed of Elastin, a near ally of the proteins, which is insoluble both in cold and hot water, and is not acted on by acetic acid. It stains yellow with picric aci^, and has no affinity for carmine. (B) iWatrix. —■ This is composed of the miicus-like material which is so abundant in the foetal mucoid tissue. According to the arrangement of these fibres, and to the preponderance of one or other variety, various types of fibrous tissue are produced. When a padding is required, as under the skin and imder mucous membranes, the fibres are arranged in a loose felt work to constitute areola^' tissue. In fascia, in tendon sheaths, and in Jlat tendons, the fibres are closely packed together to form more or less definite layers. In tendons and ligaments the fibres run parallel and close together. In ordinary tendons, where no elasticity is required, the fibres are of the white or non-elastic variety. In liga- ments where elasticity is desirable the elastic fibres preponderate. II. The spaces of fibrous tissue vary with the arrangement of the fibres. In the loose areolar tissue under the skin they are very large and irregular, in fascia they are flattened, while in tendon, where the fibres are in parallel bundles, they are long channels. III. The cells of fibrous tissue (Fibroblasts) vary greatly in shape. In the young tissue they are elongated spindles, from the ends of which the fibres extend. In some of the loose fibrous tissues they retain this shape, but in the denser tissues they get squeezed upon, and are apt to be flattened and to develop processes thrust out into the spaces. In certain situations, peculiar modifications of Fibroblasts are to be found— (A) Endothelium.—When these cells line the larger connective - tissue spaces they become flattened, and form a covering membrane, called an endothelium. Such a layer lines all the serous cavities of the body, and the lymphatics, blood-vessels, and heart, which are all primarily large connective - tissue spaces. To demonstrate the outlines of these cells it is necessary to stain with nitrate of silver, which has a special affinity for the interstitial substance, and which thus forms a series of black lines between the cells. (B) Fat Cells. — In the areolar tissue of many parts of the body fat makes its appearance in the cells round the smaller blood-vessels, and when these cells occur in masses Adipose Tissue is produced. Little droplets of oil first appear, and these become larger, run together, and finally form a large single globule, distending the cell, and pushing to the sides the protoplasm and nucleus as a sort of capsule (Fig. 10), If the animal be starved, the fat gradually disappears out of the cell, and in its place is left a clear albuminous fluid which also dis- appears, and the cell resumes its former shape. FIO. 10.- -Fat cells stained with osmic acid, and lying alongside a small blood-vessel. The fats are esters usually of the triatomic alcohol glycerin— (OH CgH.JoH I OH by the replacement of the hydrogen of the hydroxyl molecules by the radicles of the fatty acids. The most abundant fatty acids of the body are :— Palmitic Acid, Ci6H3iO,OH Stearic Acid, CisHgg'OjOH Oleic Acid, CigHjgCOH; and from these the three fats— Palmitin, C3H5(0,Ci6H3iO)3 = CsiHggOe Stearin, C^}lr,{0,C^^Yi^f>\ = Q^TR^^^O^ Olein, C3H,(0,CisH330)3 = C,,n,,f>, are produced. It will be observed that the molecules of these fats are very rich in carbon and hydrogen, and very poor in oxygen—i.e. they contain a large amount of material capable of being oxi- dised, and thus capable of affording energy in the process of combustion. The fats resemble one another in being in- soluble in water, but soluble in ether, and in hot alcohol. As the alcohol cools, they separate out as crystals. They differ from one another in their melting point, palmitin melting at the highest and olein at the lowest temperature. Fat which is rich in palmitin and stearin, as ox fat, is thus hard and solid at the ordinary temperature of the air, while fats rich in olein, as dogs' fats, are semi-fluid at the same tem- perature. The olein acts as a solvent for the fats of a higher melting point. The functions of adipose tissue are twofold :— \st. Mechanical.—The mass of adipose tissuePHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM 499 under the skin is of importance in protecting the deeper structures from injury. It is a cushion on which external violence expends itself. Further, this layer of subcutaneous fat prevents the loss of heat from the body, being, in fact, an extra garment. 2nd. Chemical.—Fat, on account of its great quantity of unoxidised carbon and hydrogen, is the great storehouse of energy in the body. (C) Pigment Cells.—In various parts of the eye the connective tissue and other cells contain a black pigment—Melanin. The precise mode of origin of this pigment is not known. It contains carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and it may also contain iron. It may be formed directly in the cells, or it may be produced by the cells from the pigment of the blood. Its function in the eye is to prevent the passage of light through the tissues in which it is contained. The cells containing the pigment are branched, and in many cases they possess the power of movement. This is specially well seen in such cells in the skin of the frog, where contraction and expansion may be easily studied under the microscope. By these movements the skin, as a whole, is made lighter or darker in colour. The movements of these cells are under the control of the central nervous system. 2. Lymph Tissue.—One peculiar modification of fibrous tissue is often described as a special tissue under the name of Lymph Tissue. It is composed of a delicate network of white fibres, the interstices of which communicate with lymphatic vessels, and contain masses of simple protoplasmic cells, lymphocytes, often in a state of active division. So numerous are these that it is impossible to make out the network under the microscope until they have been removed by' washing. Lymph tissue is very widely distributed throughout the body, and is of great importance in connection with nutrition. 3. Cartilage.—While fibrous tissue is the great binding medium of the body, support is afforded in foetal life and in certain situations in adult life by cartilage. When cartilage is to be formed, the embryonic cells become more or less oval, and secrete around them a clear pellucid capsule. This may become hard, and persist through life, as in the so-called parenchymatous cartilage of the mouse's ear. (1) Hyaline Cartilage. — Development, how- ever, usually goes further, and before the capsule has hardened the cartilage cells again divide, and each half forms a new capsule which ex- pands the original capsule of the mother cell, and thus increases the amount of the formed material. This formed material has a homo- geneous, translucent appearance, and a tough and elastic consistence, and cuts like cheese with the knife (Fig. 11). The formed material of cartilage is not a special substance, but a mixture of chondroitin- sulphuric acid with collagen in combination with proteins. Chondroitin when decomposed yields r£5S^»- Fig. 11.—Hyaline cartilage covered by periclioiiih ium. glucosamine, a sugar-like substance containing nitrogen, and glycuronic acid, another substance closely related to the sugars. Cartilage is surrounded by a fibrous mem- brane, the perichondrium, and frequently no hard and fast line of demarcation can be made out between them. The fibrous tissue gradually becomes less fibrillated—the cells become less elongated and more oval, as if the interfibrillar substance increased in amount and became of the same refractive index as the fibres. During old age a fibrillation of the homogeneous-looking cartilage is brought out, especially in costal cartilage, by the deposition of lime salts in the matrix, between the fibres. It was long ago shown that in inflammation of cartilage this fibrillation appears ; and by digesting in baryta water, a similar structure may be brought out. The close connection of cartilage with fibrous tissue is thus clearly demonstrated. Such homogeneous or hyaline cartilage pre- cedes most of the bones in the embryo, and covers the ends of the long bones in the adult (articular cartilage), forms the framework of the larynx and trachea, and constitutes the costal cartilages. (2) Elastic Fibro-Cartilage.—In certain situa- tions—e.g. in the external ear—a specially elastic form of cartilage is developed, elastic fibres appearing in the cartilaginous matrix, and forming a network through it. (3) White Fibro-Cartilnge. — In other situa- tions—e.g. the intervertebral discs—a combina- tion of the binding action of fibrous tissue with a padding action of cartilage is required; and here strands of white fibrous tissue with little islands of hyaline cartilage are found. It is also found when white fibrous tissue, as tendon, is inserted into hyaline cartilage, and is really a mixture of two tissues—white fibrous tissue and cartilage. 4. Bone.—The great supporting tissue of the adult is bone.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 500 (1) Development and Structure. — Bone is formed by a deposition of lime salts in layers or lamellae of white fibrous tissue ; but while some bones, as those of the cranial vault, face, and clavicle, are produced entirely in fibrous tissue, others are preformed in cartilage, which acts as FlQ. 12.—Intra-nierabrauous bone development in the lower jaw . of a foetal cat. Above, the process of ossification is seen shooting out along the fibres, and on the lower surface the ' . process of absorption is going on. Two osteoclasts—large multi-nucleated cells—are shown to the left. a scaffolding upon which the formation of bone goes on. Intra-memhranaus Bone Development. — This may be well studied in any of the bones of the cranial vault where cartilage is absent (Fig. 12). At the centre of ossification the matrix be- tween the fibres becomes impreg- nated with lime salts, chiefly the phosphate and carbonate. How this deposition takes place is not known; and how far it is depend- ent on the action of cells has not been clearly determined. As a re- sult of this, the connective-tissue cells get enclosed in definite spaces, lacunce, and become hone corpuscles. Narrow branching channels of com- munication are left between these lacunse, the canaliculi. This de- position of lime salts spreads out irregularly from the centre into the adjacent fibrous tissue, and this advance is preceded by a line of actively growing cells, sometimes called osteoblasts. The fully-formed adult bone, however, is not a solid block, but is composed of a compact tissue out- side, and of a spongy bony tissue, cancelloxis tissue, inside. This cancellous tissue is formed as a secondary process. Into the block of cal- careous matter, formed as above described, pro- cesses of the fibrous tissue bun-ow, carrying in blood-vessels, lymphatics, and numerous cells. This burrowing process seems to be carried on by the connective-tissue cells, which eat up the bony matter formed. In doing this they frequently change their appearance, becoming large and multi-nucleated {osteoclasts). Thus the centre of the bone is eaten out into a series of channels, in which the marrow of the bone is lodged, and between which narrow bridges of bone remain. It is by the extension of the calcifying process outwards, and the burrowing out of the central part of the bone, that the diploe and cancellous tissue are produced. Intra-cartilaginous Bone Development. — In the bones preformed in cartilage, the process is somewhat more complex, although all the bone is formed in connection with fibrous tissue, the cartilage merely playing the part of a scaffold- ing and being all removed. Where the adult bone is to be produced, a minute model is formed in hyaline cartilage in the embryo, and this is surrounded by a fibrous covering, the perichondrium. In the deepest layers of this perichondrium the process of calcification takes place, as described above, and spreads out- wards, thus encasing the cartilage in an ever- thickening layer of bone (Fig. 13). This was demonstrated by inserting a silver plate under the periosteum, and showing that bone was deposited outside of it. At the same time, in the centre of the cartilage, at what is called the centre of ossifica- tion, the cells begin to divide actively, and, instead of forming new cartilage, eat away their capsules, and thus open out the cartilage spaces (Fig. 13). Into these spaces processes of the perichondrium bore their way, carrying with Fig. 13.—Intra-cartilaginous bone development. A phalanx of a foetal finger show- ing the formation of periosteal bone round the sliaft; the opening up of the cartilage at the centre of ossification ; the vascularisation of the cartilage by the invasion of periosteum; and the calcification of the cartilage round the spaces. them blood-vessels, and thus rendering the cartilage vascular (Fig. 13). The vascularisa- tion of the centre of the cartilage having been effected, the process of absoi'ption extends to- wards the two ends of the shaft of cartilage, which continues to elongate. The cartilage cells divide and again divide, and, by absorbing the material between them, form long irregular501 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM canals running in the long axis of the bone, with trabeculse of cartilage between them. Into these canals the processes of the periosteum extend, and fill them with its fibrous tissue. A deposition of lime salts takes place upon the trabeculse, enclosing cells of the invading fibrous tissue, and thus forming a crust of bone, while the cartilage also becomes calcified. If this calcification of the cartilage and deposition of bone were to go on imchecked, the block of cartilage would soon be converted to a solid mass of calcified tissue. But this does not occur; for, as rapidly as the trabecular become calcified, they are absorbed, while the active changes extend farther and farther from the centre to the ends of the shaft. The centre is thus reduced to a space filled by fibrous tissue which afterwards becomes the bone marrow. The process of absorption does not stop at the original block of cartilage; but after all of this has been absorbed, the bone formed round the cartilage (the periosteal bone) is attacked by burrowing processes from inside and outside, which hollow out long channels running in the long axis of the bone. These are the Haversian spaces (Fig. 14). Round the inside of these. Fig. 14.—Cross-section through part of the shaft of an adult long bone to show the arrangement in lamellae distributed as— Haversian, 1; interstitial, 2; peripheral, 3 ; and medullary, 4. calcification occurs, spreading inwards in layers, and enclosing connective-tissue fcells, until, at length, only a small canal is left, an Haversian canal, containing some connective tissue, blood- vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, with layer upon layer of bone concentrically arranged around it. This constitutes an Haversian system. In this way the characteristic appearance of the shaft of a long bone is produced (Fig. 14), with layers of calcified fibrous tissue, the bone lamellae, arranged as Haversian, interstitial, peripheral, and medullary lamellae. One important function pei-formed by the cartilage is in bringing about the increase in length of the bones. In addition to the centre of ossification in the shaft, at each end of the bone one or more similar centres of ossification form. These are the epiphyses. Between these and the central rod of bone—the diaphysis—a zone of cartilage exists vmtil adult life, when the bones stop growing. In this zone, the cells arrange themselves in vertical rows, divide at right angles to the long axis of the bone and form cartilage. This cartilage as it is formed is attacked by the bone-forming changes at the diaphysis and epiphyses, but the amount of new cartilage formed is proportionate to this, and thus a zone of growing cartilage continues to exist until early adult life, when epiphyses and diaphysis join and growth in length is stopped. The rate and extent of this growth of the carti- lage has an important influence on the growth of the individual. (2) Chemistry. — The composition of adult bone is roughly as follows :— Water, 10 per cent. Solids, 90 per cent. Organic, 35 per cent—chiefly collagen. Inoi'ganic, 65 per cent. Calcium phosphate, 51. ,, carbonate, 11. ,, fluoride, 0-2. Magnesium phosphate, 1. Sodium salts, 1. The points to be remembered are the small amount of water, the large amount of inorganic matter (chiefly calcic phosphate), and the nature of the organic mattei'—collagen. {B) The Master Tissues of the Body, Muscle and Nerve By means of the epithelial and connective tissues the body is protected, supported, and nourished. It performs purely vegetative functions, but it is not brought into relation- ship with its environments. By the develop- ment of nerve and muscle the surroundings are able to act upon the body, and the body can react upon its surroundings. These tissues may therefore be called the Master Tissues, and it is as their servants that all the other tissues functionate. So far as the chemical changes in the body are concerned, muscle is moi-e important than nerve, for three reasons—First, it is far more bulky, making up something like 42 per cent of the total weight of the body in man; second, it is constantly active, for even in sleep the muscles of respiration, circulation, ai:id digestion do not rest; and third, the changes going on in it are very extensive, since its great function is to set free energy from the food. So far as the meta- bolism of the body is concerned, muscle is the master tissue. For muscle we take food and breath, and to get rid of the waste of muscle the organs of excretion act. Hence it is in con-PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 502 nection with muscle that all the problems of nutrition—digestion, respiration, circulation, and excretion—have to be studied. ^ I. Muscle The two great functions of muscle are— To perform mechanical work. To liberate heat. 1. Muscle at Rest Structure: Chemistry and Physical Characters. —The first trace of the evolution of muscle is found among the infusoria, where, in certain cells, in parts of the protoplasm, the network or cytomitoma is arranged in long parallel threads in the direction of which the cell contracts and expands. Such a development has been termed a myoid. 1. Structure of Muscle Even a cursory examination of mammalian muscle shows that those of the trunk and limbs — skeletal muscles—are different from those of such internal organs as the bladder, uterus, and alimentary canal—visceral muscles. The visceral muscles appear to be formed from cells similar to ordinary connective-tissue cells. These elongate, acquire a covering, and their protoplasm becomes definitely longitudi- nally fibrillated by the arrangement of the cytomitoma. They thus become spindle-shaped cells, varying in length from about 50 to 200 micro-millimetres. A covering membrane, the sarcolemma, develops. This is thin, but tough and elastic, and it adapts itself to the surface of the cell, unless when this is excessively shortened, in which case the sarcolemma may be thrown into folds, which give the cell the appearance of cross-striping. The nucleus is usually long, almost rod-shaped, and is independent of the cytomitoma (Fig. 15, a). The skeletal muscles develop from a special a Fig. 15. — a, Fibres of visceral muscle; b, fibres of skeletal muscle to sliow sarcolemma, muscle coi'puscles, and sarcous substance composed of fibrils showing transverse markings. set of cells, early differentiated as the muscle- plates in the mesoblast down each side of the vertebral column of the embryo. Each cell elongates. The nucleus divides across, but the cell, instead of also dividing, lengthens and continues to elongate as the two daughter nuclei again divide. The cytomitoma becomes arranged longitudinally, and a series of trans- verse markings appear across the cell. Lastly, a covering, the sarcolemma, develops, and the fully-formed fibre is produced (Fig. 15, b). This consists of three parts— 1. The sarcolemma is a delicate, tough, elastic membrane closely investing the fibre, and attached to it at Dobie's lines. 2. The muscle corpuscles consist of little masses of protoplasm each with a nucleus, which lie just under the sarcolemma. 3. The sarcous substance is made up of a series of longitudinal fibrils consisting of alter- nate dim and clear bands—the former staining deeply with eosin. In the middle of the clear band is a narrow dim line, Dobie's line. The fibres and fibrils tend to break across in the region of the clear band, showing that they are weakest at that part. The clear band differs from the dim band, not only in not taking up eosin, but also in the fact that it entirely pre- vents the passage of polarised light except in one position of the analysing prism, while the dim band allows polarised light to pass, what- ever be the position of the prisms. A probable explanation of these facts is that the sarcous substance is made up, like other protoplasm, of a mitoma and plasma; that the mitoma is arranged in a series of longitudinal fibres, which are broader and stronger in the dim band, and lie closely applied to one another, side by side, while in the clear band they are thinner, and are separated from one another by plasma; and that at Dobie's line there is a swelling on each fibril. 2. Chemistry of Muscle Like all other living tissues, muscle is largely composed of water. It contains about 75 per cent. The 25 per cent of solid constituents is made up of a small quantity, about 3 per cent, of ash, and 22 per cent of organic substances. The ash consists chiefly of potassium and phos- phoric acid, with small amounts of sulphuric and hydrochloric acids and of sodium, mag- nesium, calcium, and iron. The sulphuric acid is derived from the sulphur of the proteins, and a part of the phosphoric acid is derived from the phosphorus of the nucleins of muscle, and probably from other organic combinations. 1. Proteins.—Of the organic constituents, by far the greater part is made up of Proteins. These may be divided into— (a) Those soluble in neutral salt solutions. {h) Those insoluble in them. [a) The first class of bodies consists entirely of three globulins. Two of these—Myosinogen and Paramyosinogen—have the peculiar pro- perty of clotting under certain conditions, to form what is called Myosin, and this process, which occurs after death, is the cause of death stiffening. The post-mortem change is supposed to be brought about by the development of an enzyme, since a glycerine extract of dried muscle rapidly causes the formation of myosin.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 503 The third globulin, Myoglobulin, does not undergo this change. These three proteins are contained in the plasma—the juice which can be expressed from muscles kept near the freez- ing point. If the plasma is warmed it rapidly clots, just as it does post-mortem. (6) The insoluble protein of muscle, Myo- stromin, seems to be of the nature of a nuclein, and probably forms the framework of the fibres. It is always mixed with the collagen of the fibrous tissue of muscle, and it may be separ- ated by dissolving it in carbonate of soda solu- tion, from which it may be again precipitated by weak acetic acid; Collagen derived from the fibrous tissue hold- ing the muscle fibres together is also present, and yields gelatin on boiling. In addition to the proteins, small quantities of other organic substances are found in muscle. 2. Carbohydrates. — Glucose (CgH^gO^) is present in muscle, as in all other tissues. Glycogen ^(CgHjQO^) — a substance closely allied to ordinary starch, but giving a brown reaction with iodine — is always present in muscle at rest. If the muscle has been active, the amount of glycogen diminishes, being prob- ably converted to glucose, and used for the nourishment of the tissue. 3. Fat is present in small quantities in the fibres, and often in very considerable quantities in the fibrous tissue between the fibres. 4. Inosite, formerly called muscle sugar, is present in small amounts. It is not a sugar, but a benzine compound. 5. Sarcolactic Acid.—Hydroxy-propionic acid— H OH 0 I I II H—C—C—C—0--H I I H H This dextro-rotatory isomere of ordinary lac- tic acid is increased in muscle during activity and during death stiffening. 6. Extractives.—If dried muscle is treated with alcohol a series of bodies containing nitro- gen may be extracted. The chief of these is Crea- tin, or methyl-guanidin-acetic acid. Guanidin C.NH(NH2)2 is a near ally of urea CO(NH2)2, being formed by replacing the 0 with NH. Methyl-guanidin is produced by replacing an H in guanidin by CHg— NH CHo II I H2N—C—N—H If this is linked to acetic acid— H—N CH, H.,N—C—N- Methyl-guanidin is produced. H 0 I II -C—C—OH H acetic acid 7. The colour of muscle varies considerably, some muscles being very pale, almost white in colour—e.g. the breast muscles of the fowl; others again being distinctly red, even after all the blood has been removed. This red colour is, in some cases, due to the presence of the pigment of blood, hcemoglohin, but in certain muscles it is due to a peculiar set of pigments, Myohsematins, giving different reactions from the blood pigment. 3. Physical Characters of Mtiscle 1. Muscle is translucent during life, but as death stiffening sets in, it becomes more opaque. 2. Muscle is markedly extensile and elastic. A small force is suificient to change its shape, but when the distorting force is removed it re- turns completely to its original shape, provided always that the distortion has not ovei'stepped the limits of elasticity. When a distorting force is suddenly applied to muscle—e.g. if a weight is suddenly attached —the distortion takes place at first rapidly, and then more slowly, till the full effect is pro- duced. If now the distorting force is removed the elasticity of the muscle brings it back to its original form, at first rapidly, and then more slowly. The advantages of these properties of muscle are, that every muscle in almost all positions of the parts of the body is stretched between its point of origin and insertion. When it con- tracts it can therefore act at once to bring- about the desired movement, and no time is lost in preliminary tightening. Again, the force of contraction, acting through such an elastic medium, causes the movement to take place more smoothly, and without jerks. Ex- perimentally, too, it has been ascertained that a force acting through such an elastic medium produces more work than when it acts through a rigid medium. The extensibility of muscle is of value in allowing a group of muscles to act without being strongly opposed by their antagonistic group. For instance, suppose the extensor muscles of the arm were not readily extensile, when the flexors acted, a large amount of their energy would have to be employed in elongating the extensors. Similarly the elasticity of the muscles tends to bring the parts back to their normal position when the muscles have ceased to contract. It must not, however, be imagined that in all movements of one set of luuscles, the antagonistic muscles are relaxed, although they may be elongated. Often they are in a state of activity so as to guide the movements which are being produced. Tonus of Muscle. — The tense condition of resting muscle between its points of origin and insertion is not merely due to passive elasticity, but is in part caused by a continuous con-PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM 504 traction kept up by the action of the nervous system. If the nerve to a group of muscles be cut, the muscles become soft and flabby and lose thek^^tense feeling. 3. Heat Production.—Muscle, like all other M. triceps tlong bead) M. triccpa Kilmer head) Eld. 16.—Curare experiment to show sciatic nerves exposed to curare, but nerve endings protected on the left side ; while on the right side the curare is allowed to reach the nerve endings in the muscle. living protoplasm, is in a state of continued chemical change, constantly undergoing decom- position and reconstruction. As a result of this chemical change, heat is evolved. But the heat evolved during rest of muscle is trivial. 4. Electrical Conditions. — Muscle when at rest is iso-electric, but if one part is injured, it acts to the rest like the zinc plate in a galvanic battery — becomes electro - positive ; and hence, if a wire passes from the injured to the uninjured part round a galvanometer, a current is found to flow along the wire from the un- injured to the injured part, just as, when the zinc and copper plates in a galvanic cell are connected, a cur- rent flows through the wire from copper to zinc. This is the Current of Injury. 2. Muscle in Action A. Skeletal Muscle.—1. Methods of making Muscle Contract.—Skeletal muscle remains at rest indefinitely until stimulated to contract, usually by changes in the nerves. We de- sire to contract our biceps : certain changes occur in our brain ; these set up changes in the nerves passing to the biceps, and the muscle contracts. Can skeletal muscle be made to contract without the intervention of nerves — can it be directly stimu- lated ? To answer this, some means of throwing the nerves out of action must be had recourse to. If curare, a South American arrow poison, be injected into an animal—e.g. into a frog, the brain of which has been destroyed—it soon loses the power of moving. When the nerve to a muscle is stimu- lated, the muscle no longer contracts. But, if the muscle be directly stimulated by any of the various agents to be afterwards mentioned, it at once contracts. It might be urged that the curare leaves un- poisoned the endings of the nerve in the muscle, and that it is by the stimulation of these that the muscle is made to contract. But that these are poisoned is shown by the fact that if the artery to the leg be tied just as it enters the muscle, so that the poison acts upon the whole length of the nerve except the nerve endings in the muscle, stimulation of the nerve still causes muscular contraction. Only when the curare is allowed to act upon the nerve endings in the muscle does stimulation of the nerve fail to pro- duce any reaction in the muscle, while direct stimulation of the muscle causes it to contract. This clearly shows that it is the nerve endings which are poisoned by curare, and that therefore the application of stimuli to the muscle must act directly upon the muscular fibres (Fig. 16). Muscle, however, is more readily stimulated through its nerves, and a knowledge of the points of entrance of the nerves into muscles, Ulnar n,^ M. Qcxor carpi alooris fiC flex. digltor.commuD. profnod. 21. flex, digitor. sublim. (digiti H, et IlL) IL flex, digit, subl. (digit. Ludicis et minimi) Ulnar n. U. nalmaris brcT. M. abilactor digiti mio. M. flexor digit, mln DLcpponens digit, mio. Urn. lumbricales | M. fkx. digitor. subUm. M. Qcx. potUcis loDgus M. abUoctoi ponio. JJJCT. M. ODpancna puLiicL> hL flex. poJl. breT M. addactor pollK:. htci Fig. 17.—Motor points of arm. the mo^or points, is of importance in medicine in indicating the best points at which to apply electrical stimulation (Fig. 17). Various means may be used to make the muscle contract. 1st. Various chemical substances when applied505 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM to a muscle make it contract before killing it, while others kill it at once. Among the former may be mentioned dilute mineral acids and metallic salts. 'ind. A sudden mechanical change such as may be produced by pinching, tearing, or strik- ing the muscle will cause it to contract. Zrd. Any sudden change of temperature, either heating or cooling, stimulates muscle. A slow change of temperature has little or no effect. Every muscle, however, passes into a state of contraction, heat stiffening, when a suffi- ciently high temperature to coagulate its protein constituents is reached. This, however, is not a true living contraction. 4:th. Muscle may also be made to contract by any sudden change in an electric current passed through it, whether the current be suddenly allowed to pass into it or suddenly cut out of it, or whether it is suddenly made stronger or weaker. This method of stimulating muscle is con- stantly used in medicine. It is a matter of no importance how the electricity is procured, but most usually it is obtained either— \st. Directly from a galvanic battery or electric main; or '2nd. From an induction coil. If a galvanic battery or current from the main be used—(1) On making (closing) the current, and upon breaking (opening) the cur- rent, a contraction resvilts. While the current is flowing through the muscle, the muscle usually remains at rest; but if the current is suddenly increased in strength or suddenly diminished in strength, the muscle at once contracts. With strong currents a sustained contraction—gal vanotonus—may persist while the current flows. It is the suddenness in the variation of the strength of the current rather than its absolute strength which is the factor in stimulating, as may be shown by inserting some form of rheo- nome into the circuit by which the current may be either slowly or rapidly varied. (2) If a current be made weaker and weaker, breaking ceases to cause a contraction, while making still produces it. That is, the stimulus on making is stronger than that on breaking. (3) The two poles do not produce the same effect. The negative pole or kathode—that com- ing from the zinc plate of the battery—causes contraction of the muscle on closing ; while the positive pole or anode causes contraction at open- ing. This may be summarised as follows ;— 1. Contraction on closing; contraction on opening. 2. Closing contraction stronger than opening- contraction. 3. Contraction at kathode on closing, at anode on opening. 1. C.C • CO 2. CC>CO 3. CKC CAO How can these facts be explained 1 Electrotonus.—A study of the influence of the current on the muscle while it is passing through it throws important light on this point. While the current simply flows through the muscle no contraction is produced, but the excitability is profoundly modified. Round the kathode it becomes easily stimu- lated, while round the anode or positive pole it becomes less easily stimulated. This may be expressed by saying that the part of the muscle under the influence of the kathode is in a state of katelectrotouus, of increased excitability or of more unstable equilibrium, while the part of the muscle under the influence of the anode is in a state of anelecArotomis, of decreased excit- ability or of more stable equilibrium. Now it is well known that any sudden disturbance of the equilibrium or balance of a series of bodies is apt to cause them to fall asunder. For instance, if from a house of cards one card is suddenly drawn out, the whole structure passes into a condition of unstable equilibrium and is apt to fall to pieces. So with a muscle : if it be suddenly made unstable, as at the kathode on closing, a breaking down occurs and a contrac- tion results. On the other hand, suppose a house of cards is built and made extra stable by introducing some additional cards at the foundation, then if these cards are suddenly withdrawn the chances are that the house falls to bits. So with a muscle : when the current is opened the removal of the state of increased stability at the positive pole may cause a break- ing down and produce the anodal opening contraction. The study of electrotonus thus explains why any sudden change in the flow of electricity through a muscle stimulates it. It further explains why the stimulation and contraction start from the kathode on closing and from the anode on opening; and why the closing con- traction is stronger than the opening, since the sudden production of a condition of actual instability must act more powerfully than the simple sudden removal of a condition of increased stability. This law of Polar Excitation, while it applies to muscle and nerve, does not apply to all pro- toplasm. Thus amoeba shows contraction at the anode and expansion at the kathode when a galvanic current is passed through it. When the galvanic current is used to stimulate muscles through the skin in man or in other living animals, the different action of the two poles is not so marked as in the excised muscle of the frog, because the current, passing through the skin above the muscle to enter the body, flows not along but rather across the muscle, and thus, under each pole applied to the skin there is on one side of the inuscle the effect of an entering current—anode—and on the other, of a leaving current—hathode (Fig. 18). Thus thePHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 506 same bit of muscle or nerve is subjected to anelec- trotonus on one side and katelectrotonus on the other, and the efTects of the two poles, and there- Kathode. Anode. Skin A. Fig. 18, A . Electrical stimulation of human muscle or nerve to show the passage of the cur- rent across the structure, and the consequent combination of effects under each pole. M, making or closing the current; B, openin< M, medium ; S, strong current. fore of closing and of opening, tend to be com- bined, although the influence of the pole placed immediately above the muscle predominates. change in the primary circuit causes the sudden and practically simultaneous appearance and disappearance of an electric current in the muscle, and this of course causes a contraction. But here the effects of closing and opening the current are practically fused, and hence the influence of the anode and kathode, and of closing and open- ing, need not be considered (Fig. 20). It must, of course, be re- membered, that in an induc- tion coil the opening of the primary circuit produces a more powerful current in the secondary coil than the clos- ure of the primary circuit, and therefore a more power- ful stimulation of the muscle (Fig. 20). 7 f •f ^ B A A ^ or breaking the current. W, weak; Electric Current. Make. Break. Make. Contraction of Muscle, Kathode. Anode. 2. The Changes in Muscle during Contraction I. Change in Shape. — The most manifest change is an alteration in the A shape of the muscle. It becomes I 1 shorter and thicker. This any- I 1 one can see by studying their own biceps muscle. Contrac- tion of muscle, however, is not a necessary result of excitation. Thus, a part of a muscle when dipped in water may fail to con- tract when stimulated, but may manifest its excitation by con- Break. Kathode. Anode. Galvanic. Induced. Fig. 19.—To show separation of make and break stimuli and of anodal and kathodal effects ducting the impulse to the part when a galvanic current is used, and their combination when the induction coil is used. the inuscle not in the Water Hence with a strong current contraction occurs and thus making it both on closing and on opening at both poles. As the current is weakened the contraction at the kathode on opening first disappears, because the anode is not predominant. Next, contrac- tion at the anode on opening disappears because the anodal stimulation is so much weaker than the kathodal. Then, the contraction at the anode on closing goes because the kathode is not predominating; and, finally, the contraction at the kathode on closing also disappears. When the muscle is in one stage of the degeneration which follows separation from its nerve, the anodal closing contraction (Fig. 18, Anode M) becomes much exaggerated. This is called the reaction of degeneration. When muscle is stimulated by induced elec- tricity (Fig. 20) the question is much easier, for, with each make and break or each sudden alteration in the strength of the primary circuit, there is a sudden appearance and equally sudden disappearance of a flow of electricity in the secondary coil. If, therefore, wires from the secondary coil are led off to a muscle, each contract In skeletal muscle, the shortening and thickening of the muscle as a whole is due to the shortening and thickening of the individual fibres and their fibrils. In these fibrils the shortening and thick- ening is most marked in the dim band. The clear band also shortens, and at the same time it becomes darker till, in the fully contracted muscle, it may be as dark as the dim band (Fig. 21). Fig. 20.—Course of electric cur- rent in primary circuit (lower line), and in secondary circuit (upper line) of an induction coil. Observe that iu the secondary the make (upstroke) and break (dowustroke) are combined, and that a stron^'er current is developed in the secondary circuit upon break- ing than upon making the primary circuit. These appearances may best be explained on the assumption that the fibrils are the part of the fibre which shorten and thicken, and thatPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 507 these fibrils chiefly shorten when they are thickest—in the dim band. At the same time, by the contraction of the fibrils in the clear band, adjacent dim bands may be supposed to be pvilled nearer to one another, and to cast a shadow over the clear band. That no actual chemical change takes place in either band seems to be indicated by the facts that they retain their reaction to polarised light and stain- ing reagents. Usually the contrac- tion of a muscle occurs simultaneously in all the Fia. 21.—Contraction of skeie- fibres. This is because tal muscle—relaxed above, „, . contracted below. 4 is a a nerve fibre passes to fS™^'sh*o'^s&li" ^^jy fibre, ing of the clear band ; and and Sets all in action C shows the absence of any j.„„„iv,«„ WTU^„ alteration in the influence together. When, aS of the two bands on polar- sometimes occurs in dis- ised light. ,, , ease, the nervous mech- anism acts abnormally, the muscular fibres may not all act at once, and a peculiar fibrillar twitching of the muscle may be produced. If the muscle be directly stimulated at any point, the contraction starts from that point found to vary much according to the kind of muscle and the condition of the muscle. In the striped muscular fibres of a frog in good condition it travels at something over three inet7'es per second. When the muscle is in bad condition the wave passes more slowly, and in an exhausted muscle it may remain at the point of stimulation. The cause of the propagation of this wave is simply the continuity of the muscle fibres. The fibres stimulated are set in action, and the evolution of energy in these stimulates the adjacent fibres, and so the contraction passes along the muscle as a flame passes down a trail of gunpowder. Contraction of muscle as a whole may best be studied under the following heads:— \st. The course of contraction. 2nd. The extent of contraction. ?>rd. The force of contraction. Is*. Course of Co7itraction (Fig. 22). — By attaching the muscle, M, to a lever, L, and allowing the point of the lever to mark upon some moving surface, a magnified record of the shortening of the muscle when stimulated may be obtained. A revolving cylinder covered with a smoke- Fia. 22.—A, Method of recording muscular contraction. B, Key to parts of apparatus. M, Muscle attached to crank lever L ; p.c, primary circuit, and s.c, secondary circuit of an induction coil witli short circuiting key, k', in secondary circuit; B, galvanic cell, and k, a mercury key for closing and opening the primary circuit; T.M., a lever moved by an electro-magnet placed in the primary circuit and marking the moment of stimulation. In A, a tuning fork beating 100 times per second is shown recording its vibration on the di um. and passes as a wave of contraction outwards along the fibres. This may be seen by sharply percussing the fibres of the pectoralis major in the chest of an emaciated individual. The rate at which the wave of contraction travels is ascertained by finding how long it takes to pass between any two points at a known distance from one another. Its velocity is blackened, glazed paper is frequently used for this purpose, and to stimulate and mark the moment of stimulation an induction coil, p.c, s.c, with an electro-magnetic marker, T.M., introduced in the primary circuit, may be employed. To find the duration of the contraction, a tuning fork, vibrating 100 times per second.EURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 508 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND N. may be made to record its vibrations on the surface. In this way such a tracing as is shown in Fig. 23 is produced. From this it is evident that the muscle does not contract the very moment it is stimulated, but that a short latent period supervenes be- tween the stimulation and the contraction. In the muscle of the frog attached to a lever this usually occupies about xw^^ second; but if the change in the muscle is directly photo- graphed without any lever being attached to it, this period is found to be very much shorter. The latent period is followed by the period of contraction. At first it is sudden, hnt it becomes slower, and finally stops. Its average duration in the frog's muscle is about o^th second. The period of relaxation follows that of con- traction, and it depends essentially on the 3 ^ s^^AAA/\/^AAyV^'VA^ Fio. 23.—Trace of simple muscle twitch (1) showing ijeriods of latency, contraction, and relaxation ; record of moment of stimulation (2); and a time record made with a tuning fork vibrating 100 times per second (3). elasticity of the muscle, whereby it tends to recover its shape when the distorting force is removed. The recovery is therefore at first fast and then slow, and it lasts in the frog's muscle about yf oth second. The whole contraction thus lasts only about x^gth second in the frog's muscle. In mammalian muscle it is much shorter, and in the muscle of insects shorter still. 2'nd. Extent of Contraction.—While, as will be afterwards considered, the extent of con- traction is modified by the strength of stimulus and the state of the muscle, the total extent of contraction is primarily determined by the length of the muscle. If a muscle of two inches contracts to one-half its length, the amount of contraction is one inch, but if a muscle of four inches contracts to the same amount, it shortens by two inches. '^rd. Force of conti-action is measured by finding what weight the muscle can lift, and the absolute force of a muscle may be expressed by the weight which is just too gi'eat to be lifted. The lifting power of a muscle depends primarily upon its thickness or sectional area. The absolute force of a muscle may therefore be expressed per unit of sectional area. In man the absolute force per 1 sq. cm. is from 5000 to 10,000 grams. The force of contraction is, however, modified by so manj^ other condi- tions that no definite figure can be given. The force of contraction during diff'erent parts of the contraction period may be recorded by making the muscle pull upon a strong spring, so that it can barely shorten. The slight bending of the spring may be magnified and recorded by a long lever, and in this way it is foimd that the ordinary curve of contrac- tion gives a fair representation of the variations in the force. This method of recording the force of contraction is sometimes called the isometric method, in distinction to the isotonic method of letting the muscle act on a light lever. In clinical medicine the dynamometer is used for measuring the force of muscular contraction. The contraction of muscles in the body of the mammal may be studied by recording their thickening by Marey's muscle forceps, in which a tambour placed between the limbs of a pair of forceps is pressed upon by the contraction of a muscle or group of muscles lying between the opposite limbs, and transmits the pressure to another tambour which carries a recording lever. II. The Factors modifying the Contraction,— 1. Kind of Fibre.—In skeletal muscles the pale fibres contract more rapidly and completely than the red fibres, which contain more sarco- plasra and nuclei. The peculiarities of the con- traction of visceral muscles will be considered later. 2. Species of Animal. — In vertebrates the contraction of the muscles of warm-blooded animals is more rapid than the contraction in cold-blooded animals. The most rapidly con- tracting muscles are met with in insects. 3. State of the Muscle.— (1) Continued Exer- cise.— If a muscle is made to contract repeat- edly, the contractions take place more and more sluggishly. At first each contraction is greater in extent, but, as the contractions go on, the extent diminishes as fatigue becomes manifest, and stimulation finally fails to call forth any response. This condition is probably caused by the accumulation of the products of activity in the muscle act- ing as poisons upon its proto- plasm, for the same phenomena may be induced by the applica- I tion of dilute l'IG. 24.-InmieiKe of continued exer- cise on skeletal muscle—1, the first acids and certain trace; 2, a trace after moderate ntJior r1rno« nnrl exercise; 3, a trace when fatigue OUier Clings, ana has been induced. may be removed for a time by washing out the muscle with salt solutions (Fig. 24). (2) Temperature.—If a muscle be warmed above the normal temperature of the animal from which it is taken, all the phases of con- traction become more rapid, and the contraction is at first increased in extent, but subsequently decreased in force. If, on the other hand, aPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 509 muscle be cooled, the various periods are pro- longed. At first the contraction becomes greater and more powerful, but as the cooling process goes on it becomes less and less, until finally the most powerful stimuli produce no effect. Cooling has thus practically the same effect as fatigue (Fig. 24). 4. Many drugs modify muscular contrac- tions, e.g. veratrin enormously prolongs the relaxation period. 5. Strength of Stimuht,s.-—A stimulus must have a certain intensity to cause a contraction. The precise strength of this minimum stimulus depends upon the condition of the muscle. The application of stronger and stronger stimuli causes the muscular contraction to become more and more rapid, more and more complete, and more and more powerfvil. But increase in the contraction is not proportionate to the increase in the stimulus. If the stimulus is steadily increased, the increase in contraction becomes less and less. This may be represented dia- grammatically in the accompanying figure, where the continuous lines represent the strength of the stimuli and the dotted lines the extent of the contractions (Fig. 25). St. 1/ ! 1 1 1 J 1 1 L 1 1 1 1 1 J 1 1 1 1 1 Con. 6 Fig. 25.—Influence of increasing tlie strength of the stimulus upon the contraction of skeletal muscle. St., the stimulus ; Con., the resulting contraction. A, a subminimal stimulus ; B, theminimum adequate stimulus; C, the optimum stimulus. After a certain strength of stimulus has been reached, further increase of the stimulus does not cause any increase in the muscular con- traction. This smallest stimulus which causes the maximum muscular contraction is called the optimum stimulus. Increasing the strength of the stimulus shortens the latent period, but lengthens the periods of contraction and relaxation. 6. Resistance to Contraction—Weight to be Lifted.—Starting from the extent of muscular contraction without any load it is found that small weights attached to the muscle actually increase the extent of contraction, but that greater weights diminish it, until finally, when a sufficient weight is applied, the muscle no longer contracts at all, but may actually slightly lengthen, because its extensibility is increased during contraction (Fig. 26, a). The application of weights to a muscle causes the latent period and period of contraction to be delayed, while it renders the period of relaxa- tion more rapid, and an over-extension may be produced followed by a recovery resembling a small after-contraction (Fig. 26, b). 7. Electroto7ius.—As already explainea, the passage of a galvanic current through a muscle decreases its contractility at the anode and increases it at the kathode. 8. Successive Stimuli.—So far, we have con- sidered the influence of a single stimulus on Fig. 26.—Influence of load on a muscular contraction, o, The effect of increasing the load on the extent of contraction ; 6, the effect of load on the course of contraction. the shape of muscle. But in nearly every muscular action the contraction of the muscles must last much longer than j^th of a second. How is this continued contraction of muscles produced 1 To understand this it is necessary to study the influence of a series of stimuli on muscle. If, to a frog's muscle which takes yV^h of a second to contract and relax, stimuli at the rate of five per second are applied, it is found that a series of simple contractions, each with an interval of yg-^h of a second between them, is produced (Fig. 27, 1). If the stimuli follow one another at the rate of ten per second, a series of simple contractions is still produced, but now with no interval between them. If stimuli be sent more rapidly to the muscle, say at the rate of twelve per second, the second stimulus will a contraction before the contraction due to the first stimulus has entirely passed off (Fig. 27, 2). The second contraction will thus be super- imposed on the first, and it is found that the second contrac- tion is more complete than the first, and the third than the second. But while the second contrac- tion is markedly greater than the first, the third is not so markedly greater than the second, and each succeeding stimulus causes a less and less increase in the degree of contrac- tion until, after a certain number, no further increase takes place, and the degree of con- traction is simply maintained. Fig. 27. — Effect of a series of stimuli on skeletal muscle. (See text.)51C PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM When the contractions follow one another at such a rate that the relaxation period of the first contraction has begun, but is not com- pleted, before the second contraction takes place, a lever attached to the muscle, and made to write on a moving surface, produces a toothed line. The contraction is not uniform, but is made up of alternate shortenings and lengthenings of the muscle. This constitutes '■'■incomplete tetanus." If the second stimulus follows the first so rapidly that the contraction period has not given place to relaxation, then the second con- traction will be superimposed on the first, the third on the second, and so on continuously and smoothly without any slight relaxations, and thi;s the lever will describe a smooth line, rising at first rapidly, then more slowly, till a maximum is reached, and being maintained at this till the series of stimuli causing the con- traction is removed, or until fatigue causes relaxation of the muscle. This is the condition of "complete tetanus" (Fig. 27, 3). The rate at which stimuli must follow one another in order to produce a tetanus depends on a large number of factors. Anything which increases the duration of a single contrac- tion renders a smaller number of stimuli per second sufficient to produce a tetanus, and thus all the various factors modifying a single muscular contraction, modify the number of stimuli necessary to produce a tetanus. D'Arsonval has shown that an alternating current with very frequent interruptions of about 1,000,000 per second causes no con- traction. Every voluntary contraction of any group of the muscles is probably of the nature of a tetanus; and the question thus arises. At what rate do the stimuli which cause such a tetanus pass from the spinal cord to the muscles 1 In a tracing of a continued voluntary con- traction, indications of about ten variations per second are to be seen, while the rate of the clonic tremor of the leg which may be produced during fatigi;e by supporting the weight of the leg on the toes is about ten, backward and forward movement, per second, and in various morbid miiscular spasms the rate is about the same. All this would seem to indicate that the number of stimiili which pass to human muscle from the central nervous system is probably about ten per second. It has, however, been found that passing a strong galvanic current into a muscle may lead to rhythmic contraction, and hence it is possible that the contractions of muscle induced by the central nervous system may be caused by a continued discharge from the nerve centres. III. Mode of Actio7i of Muscles.—The skeletal muscles act to produce movements of the body from place to place, or movements of one part of the body on another. This they do Dy pulling on the bony framework to cause definite movements of the various joints. The muscles are arranged in opposing sets in relationship to each joint — one causing movement in one direction, another in the opposite direction — and named according to their mode of action, flexors, extensors, ad' ductors, abductors, etc. But in the production of any particular movement—say flexion of the forearm at the elbow—not only are the muscles manifestly causing the movement in contraction but the opposing group, the extensors, are also in action to guide and direct the force and extent of the movement. This Co-operative Antagonism of groups of muscles is of very great importance, since it explains many of the results observed in paralysis. Thus, if the extensors of the hand be paralysed, as in lead palsy, it is found impossible to clench the hand although the flexors are intact. Again if part of the brain which causes flexion of the hand of the monkey be stimulated, and the nerve to the flexors divided, the co-operative action of the extensors brings about an exten sion of the hand. In many movements some Fig. 28.—The three types of level illustrated by the movements at the ankle joint. of the antagonistic muscles are relaxed under the action of their nerves. The muscles round the various joints act on the bones, arranged as a series of levers, of the three classes (Fig. 28). 1st Class. — Fulcrum between power and weight. In the ankle this is seen when, by a contraction of the gastrocnemius, we push upon some object with the toes. 2nd Class.—Weight between fulcrum and power. In rising on the toes the base of the metatarsals is the fulcrum, the weight comes at the ankle, and the power on the os calcis. 3rd Class. — Power between fulcrum and weight. In raising a weight placed on the dorsal aspect of the toes by the contraction of the extensors of the foot, we have the weight at the toes, the power at the tarsus, and the fulcrum at the ankle. In the other joints, actions involving the principle of each of these levers may be found. IV. Work of Muscle.—As a result of the changes in shape, muscle performs its great function of doing mechanical work; and the most important question which has to be con- sidered in regard to muscle, as in regard to other machines, is the amount of work it can do. Since the work done depends upon the weightPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 511 moved and the distance through which it is moved, the work-doing power of muscle is governed by the force of contraction, which determines the weight which can be lifted, and by the amount to which the muscle can shorten, for this will govern the distance through which the weight may be moved. It has been already shown that the force of contraction depends chiefly upon the sectional area of a muscle. A thick muscle is stronger than a thinner one. But, on the other hand, the amount of contraction depends upon the length of the muscle, since each muscle can contract only to a fixed proportion of its original length. A glance at the diagram will at once make this plain (Fig. 29). The size of the muscle is thus the first great factor which governs its work-doing power. But flA I'D Y the many factors influen- cing the force of muscular contraction also influence the work-doing power of the muscle. One factor requires ——■—■ special consideration, Fig. 29. —Influence of the namely, the load. length of a muscle upon -tt- i j the work done. "6 have already seen that as the load is in- creased the extent of contraction is diminished. The following experiment will illustrate the influence of increasing the load on the work- doing power of a muscle :— □ Load in Space through which AVork in Grams. Grams. lifted in mm. mm. 0 X 4-5 0-0 20 X 3-0 60-0 40 X 2-37 94-8 60 X 2-00 120-0 80 X 1-75 140-0 100 X 1-2 120-0 It will be seen that increasing the load at first increases the amount of work done, but that after a certain weight is reached, it diminishes it. There is, therefore, for every muscle, so far as its working power is concerned, an optimum load. In studying the amount of work a muscle or set of muscles can do, the element of time must always be considered. Obviously contracting muscles will do more work in an hour than in a minute. Hence in trying to form any idea of the amount of work a muscle can do, this must be expressed in work units per unit of bulk and per unit of time. The work unit generally employed is the kilogram-metre—the work re- quired to raise one kilogram to the height of one metre against the force of gravity. Various instruments —Ergometers—have been devised for measuring the amount of work done by various groups of muscles under different conditions. The average working capacity of skeletal muscle may be estimated as follows :—A labourer who raises 130,000 kilos through one metre during his eight hours of work does a good average day's work. His muscles weigh about 25 kilos, and thus each gram of his muscle will do 5 kilogram-metres per diem, or 0-06 gram- metres per second. When required, much larger amounts of work can be done for short periods. It has been calculated that in the sprint of a 100 yards race, work is done at something like 2 gram- metres per second, about thirty times the rate at which a labourer's muscles work. But to increase the rate at which work is done requires an increase in the expenditure of the energy- yielding materials in greater proportion than the increased work—just as to increase the speed of a ship or an engine requires an increase of coal consumption in a proportion roughly corresponding to the square of the increased speed. V. Heat Production in Muscle.—In muscle, as in other machines, by no means the whole of the energy rendered kinetic is used for the production of mechanical work. In a steam- engine much of the energy is dissipated as heat, and the same loss occurs in muscle. If heat is given off when a muscle contracts, either the muscle itself, or the blood coming from it, will become warmer. Hence to detect such a charge some delicate method of measuring changes of temperature must be employed. The mercurial thermometer is hardlj- sufiiciently sensitive, and, therefore, the thermo-electrical method is most generally employed. Vai-ious forms of thermopile may be used. The rise of temperature in a muscle after a single contraction is extremely small, but after a tetanic contraction, lasting for two or three minutes, it is very much greater. The amount of heat produced may be calcu- lated if (a) the weight of the muscle ; (i) its tempei-ature before and after contraction; and (c) the specific heat of muscle, are known. The specific heat of muscle is slightly greater than that of water, but the difference is so slight that it may be disregarded. If, then, a muscle of ten grams had a temperature of 15° C. before it was made to contract, and a temperature of 15-05° C. after a period of con- traction, then 0-5 gram-degrees of heat have been produced ; i.e. heat sutiicieut to raise the temperature of 0-5 gramme of water through 1° C. The heat units employed are the small and large calorie—the small calorie the heat required to raise one gram of water through one degree Centigrade, and the large Calorie— written with a large C—the heat i-equired to raise a kilogram of water through one degree Centigrade. The amount of heat produced by muscle in diffei-ent conditions varies so greatly that it is unnecessary to consider it further.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAK MECHANISM 512 Relationship of Heat Production to Work Pro- duction.—Since it is possible to measure both the mechanical work done by a muscle and the amount of energy dissipated as heat, it is pos- sible to determine the relationship of these to one another, and thus to compare muscle with other machines as to proportion of energy which is utilised to produce work. To make this com- parison it is necessary to be able to convert " work units" into "heat units," and vice versa. It has been found that 045 gram-degrees or small calories are equivalent to 1 kilogram- metre. The proportion of work to heat is not con- stant. By gradually increasing the stimulus both work production and heat production are increased, but the latter is increased more rapidly, and reaches its maximum sooner. Again, as muscle becomes exhausted, its heat production declines more rapidly than its work production. Exhausted muscle, therefore, works more economically. If an unloaded miiscle is made to contract no work is done and all the energy is given off as heat, and the same thing happens where a muscle is so loaded that it cannot contract when stimulated. But the point of practical importance to determine is—How much of the energy liberated by muscle in normal conditions is usually used for mechanical work, and how much is lost as heat 1 It will afterwards be shown that all the energy of the body comes from the food, and the amount of energy yielded by any food may be determined by burning it in a calorimeter. To determine the energy used in mechanical work some form of work measurer or ergometer may be used—e.c/. a wheel turned against a measured resistance. By converting the work units of the work thus done into heat units, and subtracting this from the total energy of the food, the energy lost as heat may be determined, and thus the relationship between work pro- duction and heat production may be found. By experiments on men, horses, and dogs, Zuntz has found that about one-third of the energy liberated may, under favourable conditions, be available for mechanical work, while two-thirds is lost as heat. The proportion of energy evolved in mechanical work and heat in normal men has been also studied by Atwater by means of the Respiratory Calorimeter. In these ex- periments only about 6 per cent of the energy was used for mechanical work and the rest was lost as heat. Compared with other machines, such as steam-engines, muscle must be regarded as an economical worker, and it has the ad- vantage that the heat liberated is necessary to maintain the temperature at which the chemical changes which are the basis of life can go on. VI. Electrical Changes in Muscle.—When a muscle contracts certain electrical changes occur. These may be best studied in the heart, which is a muscle which can be exposed without in- jury. With other muscles the injury inflicted in isolating them sets up electrical currents of injury. If one end of a wire be brought in contact with the base of the ventricle by means of a non-polarisable electrode (in which some material which does not act upon the muscle and is not acted upon by the muscle is in contact with it), and another wire be similarly connected with the apex, and if these wires are led off round a galvanometer, it will be found that with each contraction of the heart an electric current is set up, the one part of the heart becoming first positive and then negative to the other part. This means that, when the contraction occurs, the part which first contracts becomes of a higher electric potential than the rest of the muscle, so that electricity flows from it to the uncontracted part in the organ, and from the uncontracting part to the contracting part in the wire round the galvanometer. The con- s' a b Fig. 30.—To SHOW electric current ot action In a muscle (a) com- pared witli that in a galvanic cell (6). The contracting part of the muscle is shaded. (3) Galvanometer. tracting part is thus siinilar to the positive element of a battery, the zinc; the uncontracting part to the negative element, and the wire coming from the contracting part will, therefore, correspond to the negative pole—that from the uncontracting part to the positive pole. It has now been shown that this current of action occurs along with, and does not precede, the period of contraction. The electric change in contracting muscle may be demonstrated by laying the nerve of one muscle-nerve preparation over the muscle of another muscle-nerve pre- paration or over the beating heart, when it will be found that the first muscle contracts with each contraction of the second, being stimulated by the current of action. VII. Extensibility of Muscle. — The extensi- bility of muscle is increased during contraction so that the application of a weight causes a greater lengthening than when the muscle is at rest. 3. The Chemical Changes in Muscle and the Sou7-ce of the Energy evolved Chemical changes are constantly going on in muscle, and the study of these chemical changes in resting muscle and in the contracting muscle explains the source of the energy of muscle. Disintegration leads to the liberation of energy.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 513 and ooustruction leads to the repair of the muscles and to the storage of energy. No part of physiology is of more importance; for it is the chemical changes in mviscle which give rise to the great waste products of the body, and it is to make good these losses that fresh nourishi|ient has to be supplied. The chemical changes in muscle therefore govern both the intake and output of matter from the body. By studying the question from a number of different standpoints, and by comparing the results so obtained, a fairly clear conception of the chemical changes and the source of muscular energy has been obtained. 1. Co7nj)osition of Muscle before and after Contraction.—The method which most naturally presents itself is to take two muscles or groups of muscles corresponding to one another, and to examine the chemistry of one before it has been made to contract, and of the other after it has been contracting for some time. Resting muscle is alkaline; but if an excised muscle, outside the body, be kept contract- ing for some time, it becomes acid, and this acidity is due to the appearance of carbo7i dioxide and saixolactic acid. Muscle in the body does not become acid, because the alka- line lymph at once neutralises the acid which is produced. Again, after contraction, the glycogen of the muscle is found to be diminished. But the most important change is that the amount of carbon dioxide, CO^, which can be extracted from muscle is very greatly increased. As yet the changes, if any, in the proteins of muscle during contraction have not been fully investigated, and the results of the work accomplished on the nitrogenous extractives, which are formed by the decomposition of the proteins, are not trustworthy. They seem to indicate that these bodies are increased during muscular contraction in the excised muscle. These changes in a muscle may be diagram- matically represented as follows:— + Carbon dioxide. + Sarcolactic acid. -1- Nitrogenous extractives ? — Glycogen. The results obtained by this method of investi- gation are thus of considerable value, but alone they give us no clear idea of the nature of the chemical changes. 2. Respiration of Excised Muscle.—By en- closing the excised muscle in a closed space containing air of known composition, and by investigating the changes in the components of the air after the muscle has either been kept at rest for some time or made to contract, im- VOL. VII portant light has also been thrown on these chemical changes. It has been found that the resting muscle constantly takes up oxygen from the air round about it, and constantly gives oif carbon dioxide. In contracting, more carbon dioxide is given off, and usually the amount of oxygen taken up is also increased (Fig. 31). Here we have at once evidence that muscle breathes, and that this process of respiration is increased during muscular activity. The affinity of muscle for oxygen is very great—so great that Fia. 31.—Respiration of muscle in a closed chamber. it can actually take oxygen out of chemical combinations. If alizarin blue be injected into the vein of an animal, the blood becomes blue, but the muscles remain colourless, having re- duced the pigment to a colourless condition. When freely exposed to air after death, the blue colour returns. 3. Changes in the Blood passing through Muscle.—For the investigation of this the hind legs of a dog have been used. The blood going to one leg, and the blood coming from the other, are collected at the same time. It is found that the blood in passing through the muscles has gained carbon dioxide and lost oxygen. If the muscles be kept contracted, it is further ascertained that the amount of carbon dioxide gained is increased, while usually the amount of oxygen taken up is also increased. This obser- vation confirms the investigations on the changes in the air surrounding a muscle. But the solid constituents of the blood are also changed. If the muscles have been con- tracting, the blood is found to contain sarco- lactic acid probably combined with ammonia. We shall afterwards find that blood contains small quantities of glucose, CpH^g^e- -^^ passes through muscle it loses some of this, even when the muscle is at rest, and a much larger amount when the muscle has been active. The changes in the proteins of the blood going to and coming from muscle have not been properly investigated. Some observers have obtained results which seem to indicate that the amount of fat which is found in the blood is diminished as the blood passes through the muscles, but whether this diminution is greater during muscular activity has not been studied. 33514 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Such direct observations on muscle and the blood nourishing it, indicate that constant chemical changes are going on when the muscle is at rest. It is constantly giving off carbon dioxide and constantly consuming oxygen, glu- cose, and possibly fats and proteins. When must that older that Fig. 32.—Exchanges between muscle and blood doing work these chemical changes become more active. We may compare resting muscle in its chemical changes to an engine with its fires banked down. Active muscle is compar- able to the engine with its fires in full blast. 4. Effects of Muscular Work upon the Ex- creta.—Another method of study has yielded results of very great value—the investigation of the effects of muscular work upon the excreta. Not only is muscle the most bulky and most constantly active tissue, but it is the tissue in which the most extensive chemical changes occur in the liberation of the energy for work and heat production; and hence, the waste products of the body are chiefly derived from muscle, and their amount and character aiTord an indication of the changes in tissue. This was long ago recognised, but the experimenters did not sufficiently realise the excretions are modified by the amount and character of the food taken, and hence their results are of little value. In studying the in- fluence of muscular work on the excreta, food must be withheld or must be unvarying during the experiment. If this precaution is taken, it is the excretion of the various elements composing muscle is modified by muscular work. Attention has chiefly been di- rected to the variations in the out- put of carbon and nitrogen, the two most important elements in muscle, the former mainly appearing as carbon dioxide in the expired air, the latter as urea in the urine. It has been found that if a fasting or underfed animal is made to do work the excre- tion of both these elements is increased, the carbon proportionately to the work done, the nitrogen in quantities not strictly proportionate to the work, being greater the more under- fed the animal is and the harder the work done, and being less the better nourished the found that animal is or the less the work that is done (Fig. 33, 1). If a lean animal be fed on an exclusively protein diet, the excretion of carbon and nitrogen is increased, practically proportionately to the work done (Fig. 33, 2). But if the animal be well fed on an ordinary diet, containing proteins, carbohydrates, and fats, the performance of mus- cular work increases the excretion of carbon pro- portionately to the work done, but may cause only a very slight increase in the excretion of nitrogen (Fig. 33, 3). From the increased excretion of nitrogen and carbon the consumption of proteins may be calculated, since proteins contain 16 per cent of nitrogen and 52 per cent of carbon—i.e. 3'4 times more carbon than nitrogen. Each gram of nitrogen excreted thus represents the breaking down of 6-25 grams of protein, and it is accom- panied by 3-4 grams of carbon. If more carbon is excreted, it must come from carbohydrates or fat. Proceeding in this way, it is found that in the fasting animal and in the animal fed on proteins, the muscles get their energy chiefly from pro- teins, but that in an animal on an ordinary diet the muscles get it chiefly from the carbohydrates and fats of the food. An example of such an investigation may be given. Suppose that a man, or animal, during a period of rest excretes daily 10 grams of nitro- gen, and that he then does 100,000 kgms. of work, and during the next three days the excre- tion of nitrogen is raised 2 grams above the 10 per diem. This means that 2x6-25 = 12-5 grams of protein has been decomposed. Now the amount of energy which can be liberated from 1 gram of protein has been found to be equivalent to 1738 kgms. (kilogram-metres), and REST WORK REST \ 2 3 Fig. 33.—To illustrate the influence of muscular work upon the excretion of carbon and of nitrogen—1, in a fasting or underfed auimal; 2, in an animal fed on pro- teins ; 3, in an animal on a normal diet. therefore the 12-5 grams decomposed in the experiment is sufficient to yield 21,635 kgms. of energy, about 20 per cent of the total energy expended in the work. The rest of the energy must be derived from fats and carbohydrates. 5. A study of the ordinary diet of men doing muscular work corroborates the conclusions515 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM arrived at by an examination of the excreta. In this country the diet of a labourer consists of something like the following proportions of food constituents:— Amount. Yielding Calories. Proteins . .120 492 Fats . . .100 930 Carbohydrates . 500 2050 The energy is here expressed in heat imits, Calories—the amount of heat required to raise 1 kilogram of water through 1 degree centigrade. Of the total 3472 Calories of energy daily taken in the food, only 14 per cent is derived from proteins, the rest comes from the carbohydrates and fats. The same is found to be the case in the diet of many other animals, such as the horse. Thus during muscular work the three great constituents of the body and of the food— proteins, fats, and carbohydrates—are broken down to liberate their energy, and apparently the muscle tends to use the non-nitrogenous fats and carbohydrates in preference to the proteins. Only when forced to do so does it take a large proportion of its energy from these substances. It may be urged that in athletic training proteins must be a source of energy, since ex- perience has taught that they are of such value. But their great value is as material from which the energy-liberating machine, the muscles, can be built up and increased, so that it can dispose of larger and larger quantities of food. Muscle then is a machine which has the power of liberating energy from proteins, fats, and carbohydrates, but it uses proteins more espe- cially in construction and repair. The muscles liberate energy from these sub- stances by breaking them down into simpler molecules, just as a blow causes the disintegra- tion of nitro-glycerine and liberates its stored energy. There is not such a direct oxidation as occurs in the coals in the furnace of an engine, for, if this were so, the consumption of oxygen would always be equivalent to the elimination of carbon dioxide and the other products of dis- integration. It has, however, been shown that a frog, deprived of all free oxygen by placing it in the receiver of an air-pump and then trans- ferred through mercury to an atmosphere of nitrogen, still continues to produce carbon di- oxide. This means that its oxygen must be intramolecular, must be in the muscle molecule, like the oxygen of nitro-glycerine. Probably the presence of this oxygen is one of the causes of the instability of the molecule. The muscle then takes these substances into itself—makes them part of its molecule—assimi- lates them before breaking them down. It is not necessary to suppose that all the substances are equally intimately associated with the muscle protoplasm. In all probability the protein be- comes much more truly a part of the muscle than the carbohydrates and fats, but with each one of them it is essential that it should come into the domain of the muscle and not simply remain in the blood and lymph, in which it cannot be used. B. Visceral Muscles.—In several important respects the visceral muscles differ in their mode of action from the skeletal muscles. 1. Their connection with nerves is by no means so definite and precise, for, instead of each nerve fibre ending in a muscle fibre, the nerves to non-striped muscle form an irregular network upon them, and the muscle-fibre appears to be capable of action, possibly before these nerves have developed in the embryo and when the influence of these nerves has been cut off in the adult. In the intestine the mode of action of the muscles is largely dominated by the plexus of nerves {see vol. viii.). 2. The great features of the action of visceral muscle are—1st, its tendency to sustained tonic contraction; and 2nd, its spontaneous regular rhythmic contraction and relaxation. \st. The continuous slight tonic contraction is seen in all the visceral muscles; and, while it may be increased or diminished by the inter- vention of nerves, it appears to be chiefly an expression of the continuous metabolism of the muscle protoplasm. 27id. The rhythmic contractions and relaxa- tions are not equally manifest in all situations, nor are they so continuous; but they are well marked in the muscles around such hollow viscera as the intestines, bladder, and uterus. Like the tonic contractions, they are to a certain extent independent of nerve action, but are in- fluenced by it. These contractions recur at regular intervals of varying duration. Each contraction lasts for a considerable period—sometimes over a minute —and the relaxation is correspondingly long. Everything which increases the rate of chemical change increases the rapidity of the rhythm. Thus warming the muscle and the action of a galvanic current have this action. 3. When the muscle is at rest, a contraction may be produced by any of the modes of stimu- lation which will cause the skeletal muscles to contract; and it may thus be demonstrated that the latent period is very long. 4. Unlike skeletal muscles, the extent of contraction is not increased by increasing the strength of the stimulus. The smallest available stimulus causes the maximum contraction; but if the same stimulus is repeated at regular inter- vals the resulting contractions become greater and greater during the application of the first four or five stimuli, so that the record of a series of contractions has a somewhat stair-like appearance. 5. A series of stimuli do not cause a tetanus, but simply increase the rapidity and force of the individual contractions.516 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Cardiac muscle physiologically resembles other visceral muscles, but its period of contraction is shorter and its rhythm generally more rapid. 4. Death of Muscle The death of the muscle is not simultaneous with the death of the individual. For some time after somatic death the muscles remain alive and are capable of contraction under stimulation. Gradually, however, their irrita- bility diminishes and finally disappears. They are then dead, and necrobiotic changes begin. The first of these—Rigor Mortis — is a disin- tegrative chemical change whereby carbon di- oxide and sarcolactic acid are set free, and, at the same time, the soluble myosinogen changes to the insoluble myosin and the muscle becomes contracted, less extensile, less elastic, and more opaque. The contraction is a feeble one, and since it afl^ects flexors and extensors equally, it does not generally alter the position of the limbs, although it may sometimes do so. As these changes occur, heat is evolved and the muscles become warmer. The time of onset of rigor varies with the condition of the muscles. If they have been very active just before death stiffening tends to appear rapidly. It lasts for a period which varies with the species of animal and with the condition of the muscles, and as it disappears the muscles again become soft, and the body becomes limp. In all probability this latter change is due to a solution of the myosin by an enzyme like that of the stomach—pepsin—which seems to exist in all the tissues. This can act only in the presence of an acid, and the appearance of sarco- lactic acid, therefore, allows it to come into play. II. Nerve It is through the nerves that our surround- ings act upon us, and through nerves that our muscles are made to respond appropriately to the surrounding conditions. 1. Structure and Development In unicellular organisms changes in the sur- roundings act directly on the cell protoplasm, e.g. an amoeba, when touched, draws itself together. But, even ^ in these simplest organisms, cer- ^ tain kinds of external conditions will produce one kind of change, while others will produce a dif- f , 1. 1 1 • FlO. 35.—To show lerent one, as has been shown m extremities considering unilateral stimulation (p. 493). Even among unicellular organisms— e.g. among the infusoria—animals are found in which the cell is differentiated into a receiving and reacting part. Poteriodendron, a little in- fusorian sitting in a cup-like frame, consists of a long process or cilium extending up from a cell while a contractile myoid attaches the cell to the floor of the cup. When the cilium is touched the myoid contracts, and draws the creature into the protection of its covering. In more complex multicellular organisms, e.g. in medusa, the different parts are connected to one another by a network of protoplasmic strands, which bring each part into relationship with the others, and thus secure co-ordinate reaction to any stimu- lus. A similar network exists and performs important func- tions in the wall of the alimen- tary canal of vertebrates. In more highly organised animals, where the reaction has to be more definitely appropriate to the surroimding conditions, and where the complexity of the 34, _ Poterio- mechanism involved is greater, dendron to iiius- fcrate tlie first there is a development by which stage in the evoiu- special co7iditions at special parts muscular sys^tem of the surface each lead to special reactions. This is brought about by the establishment of a nervous system—a mechanism which may be compared to a series of shunting stations between the receptive mechanism on the surface and the reacting mechanism—the muscles, glands, etc. To form this, a part of the epithelial covering of the embryo sinks in- wards as a canal composed of the surface cells, and these cells form functional connections with the surface on the one hand and with the react- ing structures on the other. At first the cells composing this tube are undifferentiated and alike, but later some of them throw out pro- cesses towards the surface and others towards the reacting structures, and these are connected, not by actual continuity, but by coming in close relationship to one another in a series of branch- ing processes, forming a synapsis (Fig. 35). Each of the units so formed has been called a neuron ; and a neuron may be defined as one of the cells with all its processes which build up the nervous system. These neurons may be divided into the receiving and reacting series, but in structure they are alike. The shape and characters of the cells, and a receiving (c)and a reading neuron (a), each with dendrites at its , and their connection to one another tlirough a synapsis (fi). their position upon the processes of the neuron —the fibres—^vary greatly, but they have all the following characters in common:—They are nucleated protoplasts, the protoplasm of which shows a well-marked network, in the meshes of which a material which stains deeply with basic stains, and which seems to be usedPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 517 up during the activity of the neuron, may- accumulate in granules. The granules formed of this material are generally known as Nissl's granules (Fig. 36). These cells give off at least one process, which Fig. 36.—a, A nerve cell with Nissl's granules ; 6, a similar cell showing changes on section of its axon. continues for some distance, as the axon. Frequently other processes are given off, which may either pass away as fibres, or may, while still in close prox- imity to the cell, form a branching system of den- drites. The axons end in much the same manner, so that all the pro- cesses are essen- tially the same. These processes are fibrillated. Fig. 37.—a nerve cell highly magnified flbrillse to show passage of processes through may be traced the protoplasm. , i , , i through the pro- toplasm of the cells (Fig. 37). In many cases the dendrites show little bvids or gemmules upon their course, and, according to some observers, it is through these that one neuron is brought into definite relationship at one time with one set of neurons, and at another with other adjacent neurons. There is also some evidence that the den- drites as a whole may expand and contract, and thus become con- nected with those of adjacent neurons. Axon.—The axon process, as it passes away from the cell, becomes a Nerve Fibre, and acquires one or two coverings. 1. A thin transparent membrane, the primitive sheath or neurilemma, is present in all peripheral nerves. Between it and the axis cylinder there are a number of nuclei surrounded by a small quantity of protoplasm, the nerve corpuscles. The mode of origin of these is unknown. Fibres with only this sheath have a grey colour, and may be called non-medullated fibres. They are abundant in the visceral nerves. 2. A thick white sheath — the medullary sheath or white sheath of Schwann — which gives the white colour to most of the nerves of the body, appears somewhat late in the develop- ment of many nerve fibres. It lies between the primitive sheath with the nerve corpuscles and the axon. It is not continuous, but is interrupted at regular intervals by constrictions of the neurilemma at the nodes of Ranvier (Fig. 38). It is composed of a sponge-work or felt-work of a horn-like material—neurolceratin —the meshes of which are filled with a peculiar fatty material. The nerve fibres run together in bundles to constitute the nerves of the body, and each bundle is surrounded by a dense fibrous sheath, the perineurium. When a bundle divides, each branch has a sheath of perineurium, and in many nerves this sheath is continued, as the sheath of Henle, on to the single fibres which are ultimately branched off from the nerve. 2. Chemistry of Nerve The chemistry of neuron cells and their processes has been deduced from a study of the chemistry of the grey matter of the brain where they preponderate, while the chemistry of the white sheath is indicated by the analyses of the white substance of the brain, which consists chiefly of meduUated fibres. The grey matter contains over 80 per cent of water. The solids consist of rather less than 10 per cent of proteins. Two globulins, one coagulating at 47° C. and the other at 73° to 75° C, and a nucleo-proteid coagulating at 56° to 60° C, have been isolated. Lecithin and cholesterin, each to about 3 per cent, are the other important constituents. The white matter contains only about 70 per cent of water. The proteins, similar to those in the grey matter, constitute between 7 and 8 per cent. Lecithin occurs in about Fig. 38.—Pieces of two white nerve fibres. the same amount as in the grey matter, but cholesterin constitutes no less than 15 or 16 per cent. From the fatty material of the white sheaths518 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM various complex substances have been isolated. The most abundant of these has been called protagon. It yields stearic acid; hence it is allied to the fats, and it contains nitrogen and phosphorus. Its constitution is not known. Along with protagon, or as a result of its decomposition, lecithin occurs. This is a fat in which one of the acid radicles is replaced by phosphoric acid linked to cholin — Hydroxyethyl-trimethyl-ammonium-hydroxide. I Fatty acid. Glycerol < Fatty acid. ( Phosphoric acid. Cholin. H H HO—C—C- I I H H Hydroxyethyl OH CHg CH3 ^CH, trimethyl ammonium hydroxide. The chief interest of cholin is that it is toxic, and some of the symptoms occurring in de- generative changes of the nervous system may be due to its presence. It is closely allied to muscarin, a very powerful vegetable poison. Cholesterin, like the glycerine of ordinary fats, is an alcohol, but it is monatonic— C27H45HO—and it is capable of linking with fatty acids. It is very soluble in hot alcohol, and crystallises out on cooling in characteristic square plates, with a notch out of one corner. 3. Physiology of Nerve The neurons form a most intricate labyrinth throughout all parts of the body, and more especially throughout the central nervous system. Each is brought into relationship with many others by its dendritic terminations, and thei'e is a continued interaction between them, the activity of any one influencing the activity of many others. In this way the constant activity of the nervous system, which goes on from birth to death, during conscious- ness and in the absence of consciousness, is kept up. It is unnecessary and gratuitous to invoke the conception of automatic action on the part of any portion of the nervous system. Through- out life these neurons are constantly being acted upon from without, and activity once started by any stimulus sets up a stream of action whicli may be co-existent with life. 1. Stimulation of Neurons. — Neurons, like all other protoplasm, react to changes in external conditions; they are capable of stimulation. A neuron is usually stimulated from one or other of its terminal dendritic endings, either by changes in the tissues round these or by changes in other neurons, Tlius (Fig. 35) a neuron may be thrown into action by changes in the tissue at its extremity, and a second may be stimulated by the activity of the former. They may also be stimulated at any part of their course, as may be demonstrated by pinching the ulnar nerve behind the internal condyle of the humerus. Means of Stimulation.—Just as with muscle, so with neurons; any sudden change excites to activity—be this change a mechanical one, as in pinching a nerve, or a change in the temperature, or in tlie electric conditions in its neighbourhood, or in the chemical surroundings of the neuron—agents which withdraw water, like glycerine, stimulating most strongly. All that has been said of the stimulation of muscle applies to the stimulation of nerve. The condition of the neui'on modifies the effect of the stimulus, and the condition of other neurons modifies the ultimate result of the stimulus on the body. The excitability of a neuron is modified by many factors. It may be increased by a slight cooling, but is decreased at lower temperatures. It is increased by warming up to a certain point. Drying at first increases excitability, then abolishes it. During the flow of an electric current it is increased in the neighbourhood of the negative pole, decreased around the positive pole, in the same way as in muscle. It is influenced by many chemical substances, some of which increase in excitability in small doses, and diminish it in larger doses; some again even in the smallest dose depress its activity, e.g. potassium salts. Continued activity has no effect on the excitability of axons, and the phenomena of fatigue are not manifested in them. 2. Manifestations of the Activity of Neurons. —So far as is at present known, the activity of neurons is not accompanied by any obvious change in tliem, although it is possible that movements of the dendrites or of the gemmules upon them may occur. The activity of neurons is made evident— (a) By their action upon other structures, e.g. muscles, glands, etc., either (a) directly or {(i) indirectly through other neurons. (6) By changes in the consciousness. (c) By electric changes in the neurons. (a) and (6) Action on other Structures.—The activity of the outgoing neurons — neurons conducting impulses from the central nervous system to muscles, glands, etc.—is manifested by changes in the muscles or other structures to which they go : while the activity of ingoing neurons is made evident by their action on outgoing neurons to muscles, etc., and some- times by modifications in the state of conscious- ness, which may be of the nature of a simple brief sensation, or, by the implication of a number of other neurons, may develop into a series of changes accompanied by a corre- sponding series of sensations.519 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO MUSCULAR MECHANISM Very interesting results follow from this fact that the activity of neurons is made manifest by changes in the structures to which they pass. Langley has demonstrated that if the vagus, which conducts downwards to the ab- dominal viscera, be cut, and the cervical sym- pathetic, which conducts upwards to the head, be also cut, and the central end of the vagus united to the peripheral end of the sympathetic, fibres grow outwards from the vagus into the sympathetic, and when the vagus is stimulated, the results which naturally follow stimulation of the sympathetic occur. Kennedy has shown that, if the nerves to the flexors and the nerves to the extensors of a dog's forelimb be cut, and the central end of the former united to the peripheral end of the latter, and vice versd, co-ordinate movements occur, and that if that part of the brain which naturally causes exten- sion be stimulated, flexion occurs. He has applied the information thus gained to the treatment of abnormal conditions in the human subject. In a woman who suffered from spas- modic action of the muscles of the face supplied by the seventh cranial nerve, he divided this nerve and connected its peripheral end with the central end of the spinal accessory and thus secured a complete recovery. (c) Electrical Changes. — The part of the that the change, whatever it is, does not develop simultaneously throughout the neuron, but, starting from one point, be it at one end or in the middle, travels or is conducted along. The rate of conduction may be determined— \st. By stimulating a nerve going to a muscle at two points at known distances from one N T Fig. 39.—jU, Muscle attached to crank lever marking on revolving drum. The secondary ch-ouit of an induction coil is connected with a commutator, with the crossed wires removed so tliat the current may be sent either through the wires going to the nerve at A far from the muscle, or at B, a point at a measured distance nearer the muscle. On the drum, A repre- sents the onset of contraction on stimulating at A, and B the onset on stimulating at B. To secure stimulation in each case with the drum in the same position, the make and break of the primary circuit is caused by the point K touching and quitting the point P. neuron in action is electro-positive to the rest of the neuron, just as the contracting part of a muscle is electro-positive to the rest. 3. Conducfio7i in JVeurons.—When a neuron is stimulated at any point, some time elapses before the result of the stimulation is made manifest, and the farther the point stimulated is from the structure acted upon, the longer is this latent period. This of course indicates Fig. 40.—N, A piece of a nerve connected by non-polarisable electrodes to the galvanometer, G. By an induction coil it may be stimulated at A. And when the nerve impulse reaches a, a deflection of the galvanometer needle takes place. another, and measuring the difference of time which elapses between the contraction resulting from stimulation at each (Fig. 39). 2nd. By taking advantage of the fact that the active p.art of a neuron—like the active »» >, part of a muscle—is electro-positive or " zincy" to the rest, and by finding how long after stimulation at one point this electric change reaches another point at a measured distance from it (Fig. 40). The rate of conduction varies con- siderably ; everything stimulating pro- toplasmic activity accelerating, and everything depressing protoplasmic ac- tivity diminishing it. Under normal conditions in the fresh nerve of the frog, the nerve change travels about 33 metres per second. Factors modifying Conduction. ■—- Conduction is modified by the tempera- ture. Cooling a nerve lowers its power of conduction, gently heating it in- creases it. Various drugs which diminish protoplasmic activity — e.g. chloroform — diminish conduction. The electric current acts diff"erently on conduction and on excitability. While a weak current has little or no effect, a strong current markedly decreases conductivity round the positive pole, and to a less extent decreases it at the negative pole, so that the general effect of a strong current is to decrease conductivity. From this influence of the electric current upon excitability and conductivity certain diff'er- ences are to be observed in the effects of stimulating an exposed nerve with currents of various strengths and different directions down-520 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM wards to the muscle or upwards from the muscle. These have been formulated as Pfliiger's Law; but since they have no bearing upon the stimulation of unexposed nerves in the living body they need not here be considered. By using the electric changes as an index of nerve action, it has been found that when a neuron is stimulated in the middle, the change travels in both directions, although its result is made manifest only by the action of the structure at one end on which it normally acts. This two-way conduction may also be demon- strated by the experiment of paradoxical con- traction, in which, by stimulating the branch of the sciatic nerve of the frog going to the muscles of the thigh, the nerve fibres to the gastrocnemius lying alongside of them are also stimulated, and cause that muscle to contract. That this does not occur when impulses from the central nervous system pass along the nerve is because the strength of these impulses, as indicated by the electrical change, are very much weaker than those caused by direct stimulation. Classification of Neihrons by the Direction of Conduction.—Since a nerve is normally stimu- lated from one or other end, and hence conducts in one direction, and since the passage of im- pulses along it are made manifest by changes in the structure to which it goes, it is possible to classify nerve fibres according to whether they conduct to or from the central nervous system, and according to the structure upon which they act. To find out the direction of conduction and the special mode of action of any nerve, two methods of investigation are employed. \st. The nerve may be cut, and the results of section studied. 2nd. The nerve may be stimulated, and the result of stimulation noted. Usually these methods are used in conjunc- tion ; first, the nerve is cut, and when the changes thus produced have been noted, the upper end and the lower end of the cut nerve are stimulated. It is, of course, only if a nerve is constantly transmitting impulses that section reveals any change. If the nerve is not constantly active, stimulation alone will teach anything of its functions. Outgoing or Efferent Nerves.—Section of cer- tain nerves produces a change of action in muscles, glands, etc., or, if the nerve is not constantly acting, stimulation of the peripheral end of the cut nerve causes some change in the activity of these structures. Stimulation of the central end of such nerves produces no effect. These nerves therefore conduct impulses from the central nervous system outward. Many of these nerves produce an increase on the activity of the parts to which they go, but others diminish or inhibit activity. The former class may be called augmentor nerves, the latter inhibitory nerves. The augmentor nerves may further be divided into groups according to the structures upon which they act. Those acting on muscle may be called motor nerves; those acting to cause secretion from a gland, secretory nerves; those acting to constrict blood-vessels vaso-constrictor nerves. The inhibitory nerves may be similarly sub- divided into musculo-inhibitory, secreto-inhibi- tory, and vaso-inhibitory nerves. Ingoing or Afferent Nerves. — Section of another set of nerves may produce loss of sensation in some part of the body. When the peripheral end of the cut nerve is stimulated no result is obtained. When the central end is stimulated, sensations or some kind of action results. Such nerves obviously conduct to the central nervous system. Those which, when stimulated, give rise to sensations may be called sensory; those which give rise to some action are called excito-refiex, because the action which results is produced by what is called reflex action. But these are not distinct from one another, and a nerve which at one time when stimulated will cause a sensation, may at another time cause a reflex action without sensation. As an example of such a nerve we may take the branches of the fifth cranial nerve which pass to the conjunctiva of the eye. When the con- junctiva is touched—i.e. when this nerve is stimulated — the orbicularis palpebrarum is brought into action through the seventh cranial nerve, and the eye is closed. The conjunctival branch of the fifth cranial nerve is thus an excito-motor nerve. When the terminations of the lingual branch of the fifth nerve in the tongue are stimulated the result is a free flow of saliva, through the action of the seventh nerve and the secretory branches of the glosso-pharyngeal. The lingual nerve is thus excito-secretory. Stimulation of the nerves from any part— e.g. by a mustard blister—causes relaxation of the blood-vessels of the part, and such afi"erent nerves may be called excito-vaso-inhibitory. Many nerves of the body contain both afi'erent and efferent nerve fibres, and are called mixed nerves. The passage of excitation from one neuron to others in such actions occupies a very appreciable time. In the case of reflex closure of the eye, about 06 second elapses between the touching of the eye and the resulting " wink." Knowing the rate at which nerve changes pass along nerves, and knowing the length of the ingoing and of the outgoing neurons, the time taken in the passage of the change along these is readily calculated. In a reflex wink it is about "01 second. Hence only one-sixth of the total "latentPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 521 time" of the reflex action is occupied in the passage of the change along the neurons, and •05 second, or five-sixths of the whole is taken up in the passage of the change from one neuron to another. Obviously the synapsis between the dendrites of the neurons offers a resistance, and this resistance varies with the condition of the neurons involved, possibly with the con- dition of the dendrites which form the synapses. If the toe of a frog deprived of its brain is pinched, the leg is drawn up ; but if a dose of strychnine is first administered, even touching the toes causes a violent spasm of every muscle in the body. The resistance is decreased. If, on the other hand, a dose of bromide of potassium has been administered, or if ice be put on the back of the animal, much more powerful stimu- lation is required to produce any reaction. The resistance is increased. The activity of the central synapses may be increased or dimin- ished in various ways, and hence it is never easy to predicate the ultimate result of any stimulation of the nervous system. But, other things being equal, the strength of stimiilus applied to the first neuron—that is, the extent of excitation—directly affects the extent of the resulting action. The nature of the " impulse" which passes along a nerve is due to change in the axis cylinder, since this, without its sheath, can con- duct. Further, it is dependent on the vitality of the nerve. Death of the nerve, as when it is heated to 47° C, at once stops the transmission of an impulse. We may at once dismiss the idea that the impulse is due to a flow of electricity. Electri- city travels along a nerve at about 300 million metres per second, a velocity much higher than that of the nerve impulse. Two possibilities remain. The impulse may be of the nature of a molecular vibration, such as occurs in a stethoscope which conducts sound vibration, or it may consist of a series of chemical changes such as cause the activity of protoplasm generally. In considering this matter it must be re- membered that the amount of energy evolved in a nerve impulse need not be great. All it has to do is to start the activity of the part to which it goes. Hence if chemical changes are the basis of the impulse, these may be extremely small in amount and difficult to detect, while at the same time recuperation may be extremely active. As a matter of fact, the evidence of chemical changes in nerve fibres is entirely wanting. No change in reaction, no heat production, and no phenomena of fatigue can be demonstrated. 4. The fmiction of the cell is to preside over the nutrition of the neuron. If any part of the neuron is cut off from its connection with the cell, it dies and degenerates. In the cat, excitability disappears after three days, and the white sheath shows degeneration changes in eight days. The fatty matter runs into globules and stains black with osmic acid even after treatment with chrome salts (Marchi's method). This seems to be due to the fact that osmic acid acts upon the unsaturated oleic acid, and that in the normal nerve this is oxidised by the chrome salt, whereas in the degenerated nerve so much is set free that it cannot all be oxidised, and therefore stains with osmic acid. The white substances gradually dis- appear. At the end of a month tiie phosphorus has all gone, and by the end of about forty-four days the fat can no longer be detected. At this stage Marchi's method is useless, and the degenerated fibres may be demonstrated by the fact that they do not stain with osmic acid or with Weigert's heematoxylin method, which stains the white sheaths of normal fibres. As the degeneration advances, the axis cylinder breaks down and the nerve corpuscles pro- liferate and absorb the remains of the white sheath, so that nothing is left but the primitive sheath filled by nucleated protoplasm. Into this, axons may grow downwards from the central end of the nerve, and regeneration may occur. This generally begins after forty-four days and is well marked after about one hundred days. Some investigators have maintained that re- generation occurs by the development of new fibrils in the degenerated nerve itself, but the mass of evidence indicates that when an apparent peripheral regeneration has occurred it has been due to the ingrowth of axons from adjacent cut nerves. The cell of the neuron appears to have the power of accumulating a reserve of material as Nissl's granules, for it has been found that after continued action these granules diminish in amount. The nucleus, too, would seem to have the power of giving off material for the nourishment of the neuron, since in conditions of excessive activity it has been found shrunken and distorted. But the cell is also dependent for its proper nutrition upon the condition of the rest of the neuron. When the axon is cut, the chromatin of the cell nucleus decreases, and the nucleus becomes displaced to one side, and ultimately the whole cell degenerates. This is sometimes called Nissl's Degeneration (see Fig. 36). Section IV.—The Neuro-muscular Mechanism The study of the physiology of muscle and nerve leads to the consideration of how the neuro-muscular mechanism acts, so that (1st) the various visceral muscles respond appro- priately to the conditions in which they are placed, and (2nd) so that the co-relationship of the animal with its surroundings may be maintained.522 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM We shall at present deal with the second of these, leaving the former for consideration when studying the physiology of the viscera. 1. The Neural Arcs The neuro-muscnlar mechanism is controlled by three chains or arcs of neurons, consisting of ingoing neurons on the one side and outgoing- neurons on the other. 1. Spinal or Peripheral Arc.—A. Ingoing (Fig. 41, A).—These neurons start in dendritic expansions at the periphery, and enter the cord by the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. In these roots they are connected with cells by lateral branches {see p. 550). When they enter the cord they either pass to the posterior portion, and divide into (a) branches running for a short distance down the cord ; (i) branches running right up to the top of the spinal cord to end in synapses round masses of cells—the nuclei of the posterior columns; or, (c) either directly or by collaterals, they form synapses to the base of the great brain, where they end in synapses round other cells in the thalamus opticus (Fig. 41, C) ; (ii.) from the cells in the spinal cord with which the spinal ingoing neurons have made synapses. The fibres to the cerebrum cross in the cord and run up to end in synapses in the thalamus ; (iii.) from the synapses in the base of the brain, formed by the incoming fibres of the head sense organs. These fibres also pass up to end in the thalamus. (c) UpjMr Neurons.—From cells in the thala- mus, processes pass up to the cortex of the great brain, to end in synapses with the neurons situated there. B. Outgoing (Fig. 41, D).—The outgoing neurons start in the cells of the cortex cerebri, and pass down to the upper part of the spinal cord, where most of them cross and run down the lateral column of the spinal cord, giving off collaterals which end in synapses round the cells in the anterior horn of grey matter, from which the spinal outgoing neurons pass to the muscles, etc. Those which do not cross run down the anterior column of the cord for some distance, and end by crossing and becoming associated with the cells in the anterior horn. 3. Cerebellar Arc — A. Ingoing (Fig. 41, E).—Some of the collaterals of the spinal ingoing neurons end in synapses round a mass of I'IG. 41.—To show the three arcs in the central nervous system. A, Peripheral ingoing neuron nerve cells at the side of giving off collaterals in the cord and some terminating above in the nuclei of the posterior j.i o-rpv mattpr of the sninal columns; B, peripheral outgoing neurons; C, ingoing cerebral neurons; D, outgoing ^'^^ iiiautKi t" cerebral neurons, crossing to the opposite side at //; E, ingoing cerebellar neurons; cord — the cells of Lockhart Clarke. From these cells, vip at the margin of the cord brain or cerebellum to form, F, outgoing cerebellar neurons. with other neurons. The most important of these in the spinal arc are the neurons in the ventral part from which the outgoing fibres spring. The other neurons with which synapses are formed send fibres either up the same side of the cord or across to the opposite side. These may be considered as part of the next two arcs. B. Outgoing (Fig. 41, B).—From the neurons in the ventral part of the cord, fibres are given off which pass out in the anterior or ventral roots of the spinal nerves to muscles, glands, and other reacting structures. The fibres entering and leaving the base of the brain by the ci'anial nerves belong to this arc. The action of these neurons is controlled and modified by the two other series of central neurons. 2. Cerebral Arc—A. Ingoing (Fig. 41, C) —(a) Lower Neurons.—These are the ingoing neurons of the spinal arc, described above. (Jj) Intermediate Neurons.—These start (i.) from the cells in the nuclei of the posterior columns, and, crossing the middle line, run up fibres extend to the lesser Dram or directly or indirectly, synapses round the cells in this organ. From the same group of cells other fibres cross to the opposite side and run up to the cerebellum. Fibres from the synapses, formed by the incoming fibres from the laby- rinth of the ear and probably from the eye, also course to the cerebellum. B. Outgoing (Fig. 41, F). — From neurons near the surface of the cerebellum and in the central nuclei axons extend {a) to the medulla oblongata, where they end in synapses round a mass of cells—the nucleus of Deiters. From these cells, fibres extend down the lateral columns of the same side of the spinal cord, and give ott' collaterals to the cells of the anterior horn of grey matter. (6) To the cerebrum. The nervous system may thus be considered as built up of these three arcs :— \st. The sjiinal arcs consist of the peripheral ingoing neurons and the peripheral outgoing neurons. These arcs exist not only at the level of the cord at which the ingoing neuron enters,5S3 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM but are placed at various levels above and below this point (Fig. 41). 2nd. The cerebral arcs consist of (1) the peripheral, (2) the intermediate, and (3) the upper ingoing neurons; (4) the central out- going neurons, and (5) the peripheral outgoing neurons. Zrd. The cerebellar arcs consist of (1) peri- pheral ingoing neurons; (2) the cerebellar in- going neurons; (3) the outgoing cerebellar neurons, either direct to the cord or through the cerebrum ; and (4) the peripheral outgoing neurons. 2. Mode of Action of the Neural Arcs A. Spinal Arcs in Reflex Action. — The mode of action of the spinal arcs, uncomplicated by the influence of the two higher arcs which act upon them, may best be studied by dividing the spinal cord high up so as to remove from it their modifying action. One of the simplest spinal reactions may be studied in a frog in which the brain has been destroyed. If the animal be suspended by the head, and one of the toes gently pinched, the leg is drawn up. Here an impulse is trans- mitted up from the ends of the receiving neuron in the skin to the cord, and this leads to changes in outgoing neurons which pass to the muscles of the leg to make them act in a definite manner to withdraw the leg from the source of irritation. This is a Reflex Action, an action in which, apart from any necessary implication of con- sciousness, an external stimulus leads to a definite reaction through the agency of one or more spinal arcs. The mechanism involved consists in :— 1. The special terminations of the neurons acted upon—the Receptors. 2. The Conductors — the ingoing and out- going neurons and the synapses between these. 3. The reacting organs or muscles, which may be termed the Effectors. It is convenient to deal first with the con- ductors. The Conductors.—These are (1) the ingoing neurons; (2) the synapses; (3) the outgoing neurons. The mode of action of this chain differs materially in several points from the action of single neuron fibres or groups of these which make up the nerve trunk. 1. Conduction is slower, i.e. there is a longer interval, a longer latent period, between the application of the stimulus and the resulting action. Thus the time between the application of a stimulus to a frog's foot and the drawing up of the leg is many times longer than the time which would be taken in the passage of a nerve impulse up to the cord and down again. The change takes an appreciable time to pass across the synapse. The duration of this time varies very greatly and is dependent on the strength of the stimulus and on the condition of the synapse. 2. While the latent period varies with the strength of stimulus, there is not the same correspondence between the strength of the stimulus and the extent of reaction in reflex arcs as there is in simple nerve fibres, and the extent of the reaction depends very largely upon the condition of the synapses. Thus, in a decapitated frog poisoned with strychnine the least touch produces very powerful reactions, while if ice be put on the spinal cord, very strong stimulation may call forth no response. 3. When a nerve is directly stimulated, the effect stops with the stoppage of the stimu- lus. But with reflex arcs the eff'ect may be continued as an after-discharge for some con- siderable time after the stimulus is stopped. The extent of this after-discharge varies with the strength of the stimulus and with the condition of the synapse. 4. In a nerve the smallest effective stimulus causes the passage of an impulse, and repetition of the stimulus does not increase its effect. But in reflex arcs a subminimal stimulus if repeated again and again breaks down the resistance to its passage across the synapse, and leads to a reaction; there is a summation of stimuli. 5. In a nerve rhythmic stimuli lead to results at the same rate. But rhythmic stimulation of the receptors of a reflex arc is apt to set up reflex movements of quite independent rhythm. This is well seen in the scratch reflex which may be elicited by stimulating the skin over the shoulder in a dog with the spinal cord cut across high up. At whatever rate the stimuli are applied to the skin, the scratch movement of the hind leg recurs regularly four or five times per second. 6. While a nerve conducts impulses in both directions, a reflex arc allows its passage across the synapse in one direction only from the re- ceiving to the reacting neuron. There is, as it were, a valve action. 7. Nerve fibres do not manifest fatigue, but reflex arcs readily do so, apparently through a change in the synapses, and these synapses are also much more susceptible to the influence of poisons—e.g. deficiency of oxygen or the action of such drugs as chloroform^—than are nerve fibres. 8. A nerve may be stimulated again and again at very short intervals of time. If it loses its excitability after stimulation the refractory period is very brief. Reflex arcs manifest much more prolonged refractory periods, during which it is impossible to elicit another response. This is of great importance in preventing confusion of movements. For, since a reflex act takes an appreciable time to be performed, it is of im- portance that it should be completed before another is started. Sherrington has studied this in "a spinal dog," a dog with the spinalPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 524 cord cut high up. One of the best examples is to be seen in the result which follows pressing the finger between the toes of the hind leg; the leg is forcibly extended as in forward progression, an act in which the other limbs must take their part before the first leg is again extended. Here a refractory period of very considerable duration supervenes on stimulation to allow of the other legs acting in proper sequence. The spinal reflexes are definite and purposive in character. This may be shown by placing on the thigh of a decerebrated frog a little piece of blotting-paper dipped in acetic acid. Definite and purposive movements for the removal of the paper are made by the leg, movements in- volving the co-ordinated and orderly consecutive action of certain muscles and the relaxation of other muscles. This implies the co-ordinated action of a number of outgoing neurons in re- sponse to a particular stimulation of a few in- going neurons, a co-ordinated action involving excitation of certain muscles and inhibition of others. This co-ordination in action must owe its origin to a process of evolution by which appropriate lines of conduction have been estab- lished in the spinal cord. The reciprocal excitation and inhibition of muscles is a feature of very great importance. It has been very fully studied by Sherrington Fig. 42.—To show play of different reflex arcs upon a motor neuron FC to the vasto-crureus muscle of dog, e. Stimula- tion of the ear, tail, fore foot, and pressure on the pad of tlie hind foot of the same side, all cause excitation, as also do stimulation of the shoulder of the opposite side and nocuous stimuli of the opposite hind foot. On the other hand, it is inhibited by stimulation of the shoulder of tlie same side, as in the scratch reflex and by nocuous stimuli of the hind foot of the same side. (Sherrington.) in the " spinal dog." Excitation and inhibition may occur (a) at the same time as when the flexors contract and the extensors are inhibited in drawing up the leg, or {b) they may follow one another as in the scratch reflex, which may be elicited when the skin over the shoulder of the dog is stimulated. The hind leg then performs rhythmic scratching movements, in- volving alternate contraction and relaxation of the flexor muscles. The mechanism involved in the ordinai'y flexion action of scratching is indicated in Fig. 42. That specific channels for excitation and in- hibition do not exist is shown by the fact that under the influence of strychnine, the inhibitory effects may be abolished and converted to excitor effects. As a result of this, havoc is played with the co-ordination of the reflexes. A simple uncomplicated reflex action prob- ably does not exist, for every ingoing impression sets up a series of changes which in turn act FIO. 43.—To show the way in which the different reflex arcs react on one another. S, skin ; M, muscle; F, viscus ; C, spinal cord with synapses. (M'Dougall.) upon the reflex arc. Thus an ingoing impulse from the skin sets up reflex contraction of muscles, and this contraction stimulates peri- pheral structures in the muscles, tendons, and joints, from which impulses pass inwards to act upon the arc. At the same time changes in the viscera may be produced which lead to excitation of ingoing fibres, and these again react upon the central synapses (Fig. 43). The activity of every spinal arc is carried on alongside that of many others, and each of these may materially modify its character. Two reflexes induced by similar stimulation from adjacent areas may reinforce one another and increase the general reaction. On the other hand, two stimuli of diflerent kinds from the same area may induce one or other reflex. Thus, while pressing the finger in the pad of the dog's foot causes the extensor thrust, in- jurious stimuli cause a flexion-withdrawal of the foot. When the two stimuli are applied at once, one or othei', but not a combination of the reflex actions will manifest itself. In the performance of each of these reflexes the same outgoing nerve paths are employed, and in the contest between the two stimuli one of the stimuli overcomes and replaces the other. In this way inco-ordinate movements by mixtures of reflexes are prevented.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 525 The ingoing fibres are probably five times as numerous as the outgoing fibres, and each one of them is connected, or may become func- tionally connected, with many different com- binations of outgoing fibres. Hence it is diffi- cult to get a reflex which does not interfere with others, either by increasing or antagonising them. The outgoing paths are merely passive channels in the hands of certain ingoing reflex paths. In illustration of this, Sherrington cites the outgoing motor neuron to the vasto-crureus of the dog, and in Fig. 42 shows how this is the common path to different reflexes induced by different stimulation of different parts of the body. Some stimuli excite its activity and may be grouped together as " allied " ; others inhibit its activity and thus act as "antagonistic" to the former group. Spread of Beflexes. — While with gentle stimuli many reflexes tend to manifest them- selves in the outgoing neurons of the same region of the cord, other reflexes, such as the scratch reflex of the dog, always involve neurons in widely different regions. But even in re- flexes which are localised when gentle stimuli are applied, and which tend to spread under the influence of powerful stimulation, the spreading Fl8. 44.—Eeflex ligures struck in decerebrated cat on stimulating a fore and a hind paw. (Sherrington.) occurs along definite lines for each type of stimulation. Thus, the ordinary flexion-with- drawal of the foot on stimulation is at first confined to the ham-string muscles; but, as the stimulus is increased in strength, the movement spreads to involve the flexors of the hip and knee, extension of the opposite hind leg, then extension of the fore limb of the same side and flexion at the elbow of the opposite fore limb with some extension of the wrist, turning the head towards the same side, often opening of the mouth and lateral deviation of the tail. Thus a reflex figure tends to be struck, and in the striking of this figure the stimuli from the muscles and joints set up by each stage of the movements probably play a very important part (Fig. 44). These definite channels of spread of reflex action appear to have been developed by the progress of evolution. The Receptors.—It is much more easy to elicit reflex action by acting upon the neuron- termination than by acting upon the nerve iu its course. This may be demonstrated by observing the relative strengths of the pinch which it is necessary to apply to the skin of the foot of the frog and to the exposed sciatic nerve in order to produce a reflex contraction of the muscles. The receptors have the property of lowering the threshold of effective stimulation. When the mechanisms involved in the special senses are studied (p. 527 et seq.) it will be found that special receptors are developed, each variety of which lowers the threshold of ex- citability of the arc for one kind of stimulus and increases it for all others. It is by this arrangement that different kinds of change each produce their appropriate result. Classification of Receptors. — It has been already seen that different reflexes of the cord may be evoked by different kinds of stimulation from without. Different stimuli each call forth a distinctive response. Thus, an injurioiis stimulus to the foot causes a flexion and with- drawal of the leg, while pressure between the toes causes an extension. Various receptors are, as it were, tuned to special kinds of stimu- lation. Those which respond to stimuli from without may be called extero-ceptive. They may be roughly classified into those responding to injurious stimuli, noci-ceptive, and those responding to non-inj urious stimuli. Those connected with the cord respond to stimuli re- sulting fx'om changes in close proximity to the body, such as touch, the addition or withdrawal of heat, the application of chemical substances. But spinal reflexes are not only evoked by stimulation from the outside of the animal, but also from stimulation of the inside, e.g. stimula- tion of the inside of the stomach. The receptors situated in these viscera may be called intero- ceptive. Yet another set of stimuli come into play in spinal reflex action. The end organs of neurons in the muscles, tendons and joints may be stimulated by the reflex response of the muscles, and may in turn set up reflex action often sus- tained and tonic in character and of great importance in determining the posture assumed. These receptors, stimulated by the condition of the animal's own tissues, may be termed proprio- ceptive (see Fig. 43). Stimulation of the extero-ceptive receptors plays the chief part in initiating movements ; stimulation of the proprio-ceptive, as a result of these, in guiding and co-ordinating the move- ments. The proprio-ceptive reflex when induced may reinforce the extero-ceptive reflex which started it, or it may evoke compensatory move- ments, bringing the part back to its former position.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 526 B. Brain Arcs in Reflex Action.—It is obviously of importance to an animal that its anterior end, which in progression first comes into relationship with any change in its sur- roundings, and in which is situated the mouth, by which it feeds and therefore exists, should be well provided with receptors, so that through them appropriate reactions of the whole body to changes in the conditions may be produced. Hence it is in connection with the head that the most complex development of extero-ceptive receptors (see p. 528) occurs. Some of them, as those in connection with the spinal cord, respond to stimuli in close proximity, e.g. the sensitive tactile whiskers of the cat, and the receptors in the mouth, which produce diiferent reactions to nocuous and non-nocuous stimuli. But in addition to these, others are developed which are acted upon by stimuli coming from a distance, e.g. light, sound, volatile chemical substances, and these may be called distance receptors. Their great importance is that by their action the body is prepared for the more immediate contact with the external condition, and is adjusted either to escape nocuous agencies or to seize nutritive material, e.g. in the capture of prey. So impoi'tant is the action of these distance receptors in the higher animals, that a mass of nerve tissue, the cerebrum, is developed to bring about the reaction of the head and body generally to these stimuli. In order that these reactions to the distance re- ceptors may be properly co-ordinated with the responses to the non-distance receptors, such as the organs of touch, these latter are closely linked to the cerebrum by definite bands of nerve fibres (Fig. 41). Still further to secure the appropriate and co-ordinated action of the head and body to these distance stimuli, a special proprio-ceptive mechanism is developed in the head, a mechanism which is called into play by movements of the head, and which thus assists in adjusting the position of the head and body, just as the action of the proprio-ceptive structures in muscles assist in adjusting the position of the limbs {see p. 528). This mechanism is developed from the internal ear, and may be termed the labyrinthine receptor mechanism (see p. 548). It is the dominant adjusting or balancing mechanism in the body, and it exercises a con- stant control over the proprio-ceptive mechanism connected with the cord. So much is this the case that its destruction leads to inability to co-ordinate the movements of the eyes, head and limbs, and to loss of muscular tone. This is seen in the "knock-out" blow on the jaw, which foi'ces the condyles against the base of the skull, and by deranging the action of the labyrinth leads to a sudden and absolute loss of muscular tone. Just as the cerebrum is developed in connec- tion with the distance receptors of the head, so the cerebellum is developed in connection with the labyrinthine receptor mechanism. And just as the non-distance receptors of the cord are connected up with the cerebrum, so the proprio- ceptive mechanism of the cord is connected with the cerebellum. Thus it is that in the higher animals the head receptors, and the brain which is developed in connection with them, dominate the cord and control the various spinal reflexes. So far, the reactions of the neuro-muscular mechanism have been considered simply as an afl:air of reflexes. But the activity of the cerebrum is accompanied by changes in con- sciousness, and it is assumed by some that the state of consciousness is the determining factor in the result, and hence such actions have been called voluntary. But since in such conditions as sleep-walking and hypnosis the most com- plex and selective actions are performed without the intervention of consciousness, it must be admitted that this metaphysical phenomenon is not an integral part of the response of the nervous system. On the other hand, we know that the character of the reaction to any stimulus is largely depen- dent upon the state of the nervous centres. Just as a touch produces a different effect in a frog poisoned with strychnine and in one under the influence of bromide of potassium, so a sudden noise may produce a totally different reaction upon a person with a fatigued brain or a brain poisoned by alcohol, and upon one with the brain in a good state of nutrition. Not only does the temporary state of nutrition thus modify the result of a stimulus, but the paths of action previously opened and defined through the centres also have a marked in- fluence. (1) These paths may have been formed in past generations and inherited from the parents. In young fowls, as soon as they are hatched, the acts of walking and of pecking are at once performed, and in many families par- ticular gestures or expressions follow certain modes of stimulation in many different indivi- duals without the consciousness of the person being involved. They are inherited cerebral reflexes. (2) Paths may also have been de- veloped in the individual as the result of previous activities of the nervous mechanism. For, if a given action has once followed a given stimulus, it always tends to follow it again. This, in fact, is the basis of all rational education —to open up paths in the nervous system by which the most suitable response may be made to any given stimulus, and to prevent the for- mation of paths by which inappropriate reaction may be produced. It is very important to recognise clearly the influence of these factors upon the conduct of the individual—the nutrition of the brain at any moment, and the inherited and acquired tendencies in particular directions—since various527 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM abnormalities in moral and social conduct may be explained by reference to them, and since cases of so-called insanity are frequently depen- dent upon them. With the relationship of consciousness to these reactions of the nervous system we shall not deal at present. Consciousness is a purely metaphysical conception, and we do not know its relationship to cerebral action further than that we have no evidence that consciousness can manifest itself apart from such cerebral activity. 3. Fatigue of the Neuro-muscular Mechanism Continued action of the neuro - muscular mechanism leads to fatigue, and this may best be studied by means of some form of ergograph, an instrument which enables the response of a muscle to stimuli to be recorded. If a muscle be " voluntarily" or reflexly stimulated again and again, it finally ceases to react. But if now the outgoing nerve is stimulated, the muscle contracts at once. This shows that fatigue first manifests itself in the central synapses. If the outgoing nerve be repeatedly stimulated, after a time the muscle no longer responds, but if the muscle be directly stimulated it contracts. The muscle therefore is not fatigued. Since the electrical changes which accompany con- duction in a nerve still go on, it is obvious that the nerve still acts. It is therefore the nerve ending in the muscle which fatigues after the central synapses. Fatigue is due to the accumulation of the products of the activity of muscle, and it may be induced in a normal dog by injecting the blood from a dog which has been fatigued. In studying the neuro-muscular mechanism it is most important to keep clearly in mind the meaning of the terms stimulus, reaction, and sensation, (a) Stimulus is the change in the surroundings which produces (b) the Reaction, the modification in the action of some part of the body, (c) Sensation is the change in the consciousness which may accompany the application of a stimulus and the reaction. 4. The Chief Receptor Mechanisms The Senses.—In order that each particular kind of change in the surroundings of the body may produce its appropriate reaction, it is essential that the different kinds of changes should act in different ways—-that the contact of gross matter, changes of temperature, vibra- tions of the air, vibrations of the ether, and various chemical changes should produce their special effects. To secure this, as we have already seen, special peripheral developments of neurons, special receptors, have been evolved which react more particularly to each of these special kinds of change. With these peripheral neurons particular parts of the central nervous system are connected and associated, so that a special reaction to each of the various kinds of stimuli may occur. These reactions may be accom- panied by changes in the consciousness—by sensations; and since our consciousness is our instrument of knowledge — our Ego — these sensations appear to us the chief and most important part of the action of the mechanism, and hence their activities are often considered as the senses. That, in many reactions, sensa- tion is not an essential part, we have already indicated. A. Intero-ceptive Mechanism Common Sensibility/.— Throughout the in- ternal organs are various peripheral terminations of ingoing nerves, some apparently of the nature of simple dendritic expansions, some of dendritic expansions enclosed in definite fibrous capsules (Pacinian Corpuscles), which are called into action by different kinds of stimulation, nocuous and innocuous, to produce reflex adjustments of the bodily mechanism either without or with the involution of consciousness —that is, either without or with the production of sensation (see p. 525). Thus when food is taken into the stomach it stimulates the ends of the different nerves, and these carry the impulse up to the central nervous system to produce a reflex dilatation of the gastric blood-vessels. When the consciousness is involved in the action of these mechanisms the sensations experienced are generally vague and difficult to describe, and have been grouped under the term of " Common Sensations." The ordinary sensations of thirst and hunger are examples of these, sensations which, although due to changes in the mouth, throat, or stomach, give us information as to the general needs of the body. Such sensations may be considered as normal and physiological. But when abnormal conditions exist in certain localities they produce sensations such as tickling, tingling, etc., and generally lead to a reflex endeavour to remove the abnormal stimulus. When nocuous stimuli act they generally not only evoke some reflex adjustment, as when indigestible matter in the stomach causes vomiting, but they produce changes in the consciousness which are generally classed as unpleasant or painful. All pain, since it means a change in our consciousness, is metaphysical. There is not such a thing as "physical pain." The fatigue and other sequences to any kind of pain are frequently cited as proofs of the influence of the mind on the body. But we have no right to assume that they are caused by the "pain" rather than by the physical disturbances in the nervous system of which the pain is an accompaniment. It must be recognised that pain is purely a relative term, and that conditions which in one individual will cause pain will not cause it528 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUKO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM in another, while stimuli which will produce what are called painful sensations when the nervous system is debilitated may give rise to sensations not considered as painful when the nervous system is normal. The mechanism of common sensibility is not acted on by the same stimuli in all parts of the body. The mouth and throat are the parts to which the sensations are referred in abstinence from fluids, the stomach in the absence of food. The intestine appears to give rise to sensation only when abnormally stimulated. In the skin the mechanism of common sensibility is so closely associated with the mechanism of the tactile and temperature senses that it is difficult to diiTerentiate them. Abnormal stimulation of the skin produces painful sensations very readily, while similar changes in other tissues —e.g. muscles—cause no modification of con- sciousness. The nerve channels by which the changes producing common sensibility are transmitted in the central nervous system are distinct from those connected with the tactile and other senses, and common sensibility may persist while the tactile sense is lost {see p. 530). B. Proprio-ceptive Spinal Mechanism Kincesthetic or Muscle and Joint Sense.— The importance of the action of the receptors which are stimulated by the action of muscles has been indicated in the study of reflex action. A double mechanism is involved— 1st, A mechanism stimu- lated by the contraction of the muscles; and 2nd, A mechanism acted on by movements at the joints. The receptors are of three kinds:— (1st) M'uscle Spindles.— Among the fibres of the muscles are found long fusi- form structures containing modified parts of the muscle fibres. Into each spindle Fig. 45. — structure of j n x i muscle spiudie — only a meduUated nerve passes one fibre represented. a,nd breaks up into a non- b, capsular space; c, t n i "S capsule; p, motor ter- medullated plexus round ^^^i.r'J^'''^ the fibres (Fig. 45). spindle fibre. (From (•2nd) Or(/a7lS of Goloi SLre Kegaud and Favre.) n i • ,, small fibrous capsules in the tendons near the muscle fibres into which a medullated fibre enters, and losing its white sheath forms a plexus of fibrils with varicosities upon them. (3rd) Varicose terminations of axons sur- rounded by fibrous tissues are found in the synovial membranes and round joints. Through these mechanisms information is transmitted to the central nervous system as to the position and movements of the various parts, and this, as has been already indicated, although not necessarily modifying the con- sciousness, is of the utmost importance in guiding the movements. When the conscious- ness is affected, valuable information as to the conditions of the surroundings may be gained. In estimating the weight of bodies, these sensa- tions are much used. The body to be weighed is taken in the hand, and by determining the amount of muscular contraction required to support or raise it, the weight is estimated. The shape and size of objects are also deter- mined by this sense in conjunction with the sense of touch. If we touch a book on the table we can form an idea of its shape and size by estimating the distance through which the hand touching it may be moved in different directions. In the dark the distance of objects is also judged by estimating the extent of movement of the hand and arm necessary to touch them. The sensations derived from the joint and muscle senses are often lost or im- paired, and the condition of the mechanism may be tested by ascertaining the smallest difference of weight which can be appreciated. With moderate weights of about one pound, a differ- ence of about 5 per cent can usually be detected in the normal condition. The receptors in deeply-seated structures may also be stimulated by pressure from without, for Head has found that after the cutaneous nerves to a part have been divided, pressure with the point of a pencil is still felt and well localised. C. EXTBRO-CEPTIVB MECHANISM The Special Senses.—As we have already seen, the outside of the body is richly supplied with a variety of receptors, each one of which has a low threshold of stimulation for one particular kind of stimulus and a very high threshold for all other kinds. We have further seen that these may be divided into receptors, stimulated by changes set up close to the body—non-distance receptors —and receptors acted upon by changes which may originate at a distance—distance receptors. Among the former may be classed the receptors in the skin and mouth, and among the latter those in the nose, ear, and eye. Non-distance Receptors (a) For Contact.—Tactile Sense.—Even after the nerves from a portion of skin have been cut, contact with the point of a pencil is felt, but a prick with a sharp pin, heat and cold, and such gentle contact as touching a hair are no longer felt, and, if a fold of skin is pinched up, and a pencil pressed on the side of the fold, it is not felt. This means that deeply-placed receptors, the fibres of which travel with motor nerves, can be stimulated by pressure through the skin. This, however, is not the mechanism concerned in true tactile sense.529 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 1. Receptors Tactile corpuscles consist of a naked branching varicose termination of axons surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue, situated in the papillte of the true skin (Fig. 46). 2. Physiology The study of reflex action in the "spinal dog " (p. 524) has revealed how various may be the reactions to different stimuli of the skin, ac- cording to the part stimulated and to the char- acter of the stimulus. Thus harmful stimu- lation of the foot causes a flexion and drawing up of the leg ; pres- sure of the sole with the finger causes the ex- tensor thrust. Again, gentle stimulation on characteristic scratch- FlQ. 46.—Simple form of sensory nerve termination. In tiie tactile corpuscle the nerve fibre coils round the cap- sule before entering. (Dogiel.) seem to cause a different non-nocuous. They are an- nocuous stimulus is gener- the shoulder causes the ing reflex. Nocuous stimuli reflex result from tagonistic, and the nocuous stimulus ally prepotent, and is able to replace in reflex action the non-nocuous. The sensation which accompanies their stimulation is not that of contact but of pain, and the central neurons which transmit such impulses rvm independently of those transmitting true touch impulses. The sensations evoked by such touch stimuli may be studied by touching the table and ana- lysing the manner in which the conclusion is arrived at that a table is touched. We conclude it is a table because the surface is hard and smooth. This judgment may or may not be correct. But even in saying that the body we touch is hard and smooth, we are also forming judgments from the sensations experienced. When we say the surface is hard we mean it resists pressure, and when we say it is smooth we mean that the skin of our finger is uniformly touched and not pressed upon at certain points as it would be if the surface were rough. Or, it may be, that we draw our finger over the table and feel a continuous contact, and not the series of contacts which we should experience were the surface rough. The determination of the resistance to pressure implies the power of distinguishing differences of pressure. The determination of a continuous contact instead of a series of local contacts im- plies the power of determining or localising the VOL. VII part or parts touched, and the ability to dis- tinguish between a continuation of contact and a succession of contacts implies the power of differentiating contacts in time. The tactile sense may thus be best studied under three heads :— 1. The Power of distinguishing Differences of Pressure.—Variations of pressure in time and space are alone distinguished. We live under an atmospheric pressure of 760 mm. of mercury, but this gives rise to no sensation. Any sudden increase or diminution of pressure, however, leads to a marked change of sensation, but a slow change causes a lesser modification of con- sciousness. If a part of a body is uniformly pressed on, as when a finger is immersed in mercury, the sensation of pressure is felt as a ring at the surface of the mercury, where the greater pressure of the mercury joins the lesser pressure of the air. For these reasons, in testing the acuteness of the pressure sense over the surface of the body, these two factors must be kept in mind : the rate at which the pressure is varied and the pressure on adjacent parts of skin must be kept uniform; the part of the body being supported so that the muscular sense cannot come into play, different weights may be applied to ascertain the smallest difference of weight which can be distinguished. The pressure sense varies in different parts of the body, being most acute where the nerve terminations are most abundant, and less acute where they are fewer. Over the points of the finger, with a weight of about 1 gram, a differ- ence of about 10 per cent can be distinguished, but over the leg the difference must be much greater. Everything which diminishes the activity of protoplasm diminishes the acuteness of the pressure sense, and therefore when the skin is cold the sense is much less acute than when it is warm. Again, since the sensation is a modification of consciousness, it is modified by the state of the central nervous system. This is readily fatigued, and hence, if the tests are applied for too long a period at one time, the acuteness of perception diminishes. 2. The Power of Localising the Place of Con- tact.—Where the tactile organs are abundant, the power of distinguishing accurately the point touched is more acute than in places where these are more scattered. For this reason, if two contacts are made at the same time, they may be very close together in the former situa- tion, and each of them may be localised and felt as distinct from the other, whereas in the latter situation, they may be felt as a single contact. The power is therefore tested by determining how near two points of contact may be brought to one another, and still cause a double sensa- tion. This may be done by means of some form of sesthesiometer — e.g. a pair of com- 34PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 530 passes; and in using it, it is necessary to ob- serve certain precautions. First, the two points must touch the skin simultaneously. Second, they must touch it lightly and with equal pressure each time. Third, they must not be worked steadily from close together to further apart, or vice versa, but must be used now in the one way, now in the other. In this way it is easy to demonstrate that over the tips of the fingers, where tactile organs are very abundant, the two points of contact will give rise to a double sensation when no more than 2 mm. apart, while over the back of the hand they do not give a double sensation till they are about 30 mm. apart. Over the thigh and back they must be no less than 50 to 70 mm. apart. Both the peripheral mechanism and the cen- tral nervous system are involved in this locali- sation, and hence the power varies with the condition of the skin as regards temperature, etc., and with the state of the nervous system. 3. The Power of Distinguishing Contacts in Time. —■ If the finger be brought against a toothed wheel rotated slowly, the contacts of the individual teeth will be separately felt. But if the wheel V~\ V~\ V~\ V~\ is made to rotate more and more rapidly, the separate sensa- tions are no longer felt, but Fig. 47.—Relationship of sensation to a COntmuoUS stimulus, with weak and strong ^. -f stimuli. Stimuli represented by sense OI contact vertical lines —the strength being jg experienced, indicated by their height. Sensa- mv." A' tions represented by the curves. i h 1S indicates that, if stimuli follow one another sufficiently rapidly, the sensations produced are fused. From this it is obvious that the sensation lasts longer than the stimulus—the contact (Fig. 47). The duration of the sensation depends upon the degree of stimulation of the peripheral tac- tile organs. When the stimuli are strong, as in the contact of the finger with the rough edge of a toothed wheel, the sensations last a con- siderable time, and thus stimuli, following one another at about 500 times per second, cause a fusion of sensation. On the other hand, if a violin string is made to vibrate against the finger, the stimuli are weak, and the resulting sensations of short duration, and hence stimuli may follow one another with great rapidity, say to 1200 per second, and still be distinguished by separate sensations. The paths of conduction to and in the central nervous system, and the position of the centre in the brain, are considered on p. 569. {b) For Addition and Withdrawal op Heat. —Thermal tieiise.—Heat, like light, is physically a form of vibration of the ether. The tempera- ture sense depends upon the fact that when heat is withdrawn from the body we have one kind of sensation which we call cold, and when heat is added to our body another sensation which we call hot. This depends upon the temperature of our body in relationship to the surroundings, and not merely on the tempera- ture of surrounding bodies. If three basins of water are taken, one very hot, one very cold and one of medium temperature, and if a hand be placed, one in the very hot and one in the very cold water for a short time, and then transferred to the basin with water at a medium temperature, the water will feel hot upon the hand that has been in the cold water and cold upon the hand that has been in the hot water. The rate at which the heat is abstracted or added is the governing factor for causing the sensation; a sudden change of temperature stimulates far more powerfully than a slow change. For this reason the thermal conduc tivity of substances in contact with the skin has an influence upon the sensation. If a piece of iron and a piece of flannel side by side be touched, the first will feel cold, the second will not, because the former has high thermal con- ductivity, the latter has not, and thus the former abstracts heat more rapidly than the latter. Certain parts of the skin are stimulated by the withdrawal of heat, and their stimulation is accompanied by sensations of cold, while others are stimulated by the addition of heat and give rise to a sense of warmth. This may be demon- strated by taking the cold point of a pencil and passing it over the back of the hand, when it will be felt as cold only at certain points; such points have been called cold spots, while similar spots stimulated by the addition of heat are called hot spots. The acuteness of the temperature sense may be tested by finding the smallest difference of temperature which can be distinguished. This may be done by taking two test tubes in which thermometers have been placed, and filling them with water at slightly different temperatures and then applying them to different parts of the skin. If the temperature is very low or very high, differences of temperature are not readily distinguished, and in fact painful sensa- tions may take the place of temperature sensa- tions. But between 15° and 50° C. the power of distinguishing differences of temperature is fairly constant, but it varies in diff"erent parts of the body. Over the cheek as small a differ ence as '2° C. can be appreciated, while on the back the difference must be as great as '9° C. The temperature sense is independent of the tactile sense. The one may be lost and the other retained. It is probable that the nerve endings in the deeper layers of epithelium are connected with the temperature sense. But although independent, the tactile and thermal senses influence one another. A cold bodyPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 531 placed on the skin feels heavier than a warm body, as may be shown by placing first a cold penny and then a warm penny on the skin of the forehead. Much light has been thrown on the nature of the nervous mechanism connected with cuta- neous sensibility by Head. He had the radial and external cutaneous nerves in his own arm divided below the elbow, and he thus severed all fibres from the skin over an area on the outside of the hand and fore-arm. (1) Immediately after the operation he found that the pressure sense was not lost, and that a touch with a pencil was felt and well localised. True tactile sense, as tested by touching with a soft substance like cotton-wool, and the sense of pain as tested by the prick with a pin, were lost. Ulcers tended to form over the paralysed area. (2) After seven weeks he found that a prick with a pin could be felt as a painful sensation, not well localised and radiating widely. Differ- ences of temperature between ice-cold water and water at 50° C. could be appreciated, and the cold and hot spots were sharply defined and reacted as cold to water at 24* C. and hot to everything above 38° or 40° C. The sensation FIG. 48.—To show the arrangement of epicritic, protopathic, and deep-ingoing fibres in their distribution, and in their course in peripheral nerves and in the plexuses ; — f — \ — epi- critic fibres; protopathic fibres ; -o-o-o deep fibres. (See text.) radiated widely and was not graduated, the intensity depending upon the number of spots stimulated, large surfaces at 25° C. giving a more marked sensation of cold than small sur- faces at 0° C. By the end of two hundred days this condi- tion was completely restored over the whole area, and ulcers no longer tended to form. He considers that the nerve structures involved constitute the great reflex mechanism presiding Dver the nutrition of the skin. In action it produces qualitative, not quantitative, changes in the consciousness. He terms it Protopathic Sensibility. (3) For more than a year the area remained insensitive to light touch with cotton-wool, then gradually it became sensitive to such light contact and to slight differences of temperature, giving sensations of warinth and coldness as opposed to the previous sensations of hot and cold. This he terms Epicritic Sensibility. He discovered a small area on his hand in which the epicritic sense was not lost but the protopathic sense was lost. Light touch and differences of temperature between 36° and 45° C. were appreciated, but the difference between water at 50° C. and ice was not felt. He concludes from this and from the different rate of regeneration that the two sets of nerves are independent. He further finds, from the study of cases of nerve section, that division of a peripheral nerve leaves sharply-defined areas of loss of epicritic sense, but great overlaps in the protopathic sense. On the other hand, when a cord of the brachial plexus is divided, the area showing loss of protopathic sense is more sharply defined. When a series of posterior roots are cut, loss of protopathic and epicritic sensibility correspond. He concludes that the posterior roots are the units for protopathic sense, while the peripheral nerves are the units for epicritic sense (Fig. 48). In the spinal cord there is no indication of separate channels for these two kinds of nerves, but the sensory impulses get shunted into special tracts for heat, cold, touch, etc. {see p. 570). He also considers visceral sensations. He finds that, when water is applied to the inside of the colon, differences of temperature between 20° and 40° C. are not appreciated, but ice-cold water is felt as cold and water at 50° C. as hot. The sensation is not localised. He argues that the viscera have protopathic but not epicritic sensibility, but he points out that most of the visceral sensations are due to a sense akin to the muscle sense. He concludes that the body within and with- out is supplied with protopathic fibres and with fibres associated with sensation of movement and of pressure, but that to the skin alone epicritic fibres pass (Fig. 48). How far epicritic sensibility exists in the lower animals it is not easy to determine. Possibly it has been evolved in the primates in connection with the important part played by the tactile sense of the hand in directing the movements of the animal. (c) For Chemical Stimuli.—Sense of Taste.— 1. Receptors.—These receptors are developed in the mouth with the object of determining the utilisation or rejection of material taken into the mouth according as it is beneficial or nocuous. The most important receptors consist of groups of spindle-shaped cells with which the532 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM dendritic termination of the nerves from the mouth are connected, each group of cells being surrounded by a series of flat epithelial cells like the staves of a barrel to form a taste bulb. These taste bulbs are most abundant at the back of the tongue, on the sides of the large circumvallate papillee which form the promi- nent V-shaped line on the posterior part of the dorsum. 2. Connections with the Central Nervous System.—-The posterior third of the tongue is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The anterior two-thirds are supplied by the lingual of the fifth and the chorda tympani of the seventh. It has been maintained that all these fibres enter the medulla by way of the Gasserian ganglions and the root of the fifth nerve; but the study of cases in which the ganglion has been removed does not support this view, and the evidence seems to indicate that the fibres enter the medulla by the roots of the nerve in which they run. The position of the receiving centre in the brain is considered on p. 569. 3. Physiology.—As to the way in which this mechanism is stimulated our knowledge is very imperfect. In order to act, the sub- stance must be in solution. The strength of the sensation depends on the concentration of the solution, upon the extent of the surface of the tongue acted upon, upon the duration of the action, and upon the temperature of the solution. If the temperature is very high or very low the taste sensation is im- paired by the feelings of cold or heat. It is most difficult to classify the many various taste sensations which may be ex- perienced, but they may roughly be divided into four main groups :— 1. Sweet. 3. Acid. 2. Bitter. 4. Saline. Whether different sets of terminations react specially to each of these is not known, but it has been found that substances giving rise to the sensation which we call bitter act best on the back of the tongue, while substances pro- ducing sweet or acid sensations act on the sides and front. Again, chewing the leaves of gymnema sylvestre abolishes sensations of sweet and bitter, but does not interfere with those of acid and saline, and leaves the tactile sense unimpaired. On the other hand, cocaine para- lyses the tactile sense before it interferes with the sense of taste. The sense of taste is very closely connected with the sense of smell, and, when the latter is inter- fered with, many substances seem tasteless which under normal conditions have a marked flavour. Distance Receptors (a) For Chemical Stimuli.—Sense of Smell. —Smell, as Sherrington puts it, is taste at a distance. Just as the taste organs are stimu- lated by substances taken into the mouth, so the olfactory organs are stimulated by volatile substances inhaled through the nose. The olfactory organs are the most funda- mental of all distance receptors, and they play a most important part in the life of the lower animals in guiding them to their food and re- pelling them from danger, in causing positive and negative chemiotaxis. 1. Receptors.—Over the upper part of the nasal cavity the columnar epithelial cells are devoid of cilia, and between them are placed spindle-shaped cells (Fig. 49, A), which send processes through the mucous membrane, and through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid into the olfactory bulb, /. In the bulb these neurons form synapses, B, with other neurons, C, the axons of which pass to the base of the olfactory tracts. 2. Connections ivith the Central Nervous System.—The connections of the olfactory fibres with the cortical centre in the uncinate gyrus {see p. 569) is shown in Fig. 49, ///. 3. Physiology.—Stimulation of Mechanism.— To act upon the olfactory mechanism the sub- stance must be volatile, and must be suspended in the air. In this condition infinitesimal quantities of such substances as musk are capable of producing powerful sensations. The mucous membrane must be moist, and this is secured by the activity of Bowman's glands, situated in the mucous membrane. These are under the control of the fifth cranial nerve, and section of this leads indirectly to loss of the sense of smell through dryness of the membrane. FIG. 49.—The connections of the olfactory fibres. A, Olfactory cells; B, synapses in the olfactory bulb, /. ; //., olfactory tracts; III., olfactory centre ; decussation of fibres. (Howell.)533 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM (b) For Vibration of Ether.—Sense of Sight. —A. General Considerations.—While the addition to and withdrawal from the surface of the body of the slower ethereal waves which are the basis of heat act upon the special nerve terminations in the skin to give rise to sensations of heat and cold, a certain range of more rapid vibrations act specially upon the nerve endings in the eye to produce molecular changes which in turn affect the centres in the brain, and play a most important part in the adjustment of movements for the benefit of the body and which give rise to changes in consciousness which we call sight. The range of vibrations which can act in this way is comparatively limited, the slowest being about 435 billions per second, the most rapid about 764 billions. Vibrations more rapid than this, which are capable of setting up chemical changes, as in photography, do not produce visual sensations. The action of light upon the protoplasm of lower organisms has been already considered (p. 493), and it has been seen that it may be 3ither general or unilateral, producing the phenomena of positive and negative phototaxis. tn more complex animals special sets of cells are set apart to be acted on by light, and these ire generally imbedded in pigmented cells to prevent the passage of light through the proto- plasm. Such an accumulation of cells consti- :utes an eye, and in the simpler organisms such m eye can have no further function than to 5nable the presence or absence of light or i'arious degrees of illumination to produce their jffects. But in the higher animals these cells are so irranged that certain of them are stimulated 3j light coming in one direction, others are stimulated by light coming in another, and Nhile the former are connected with one set of synapses in the brain, the latter are connected vith another. Thus light coming from one point will stimulate one set of cells which will jxcite one part of the brain, and light from mother will act upon other cells which will jxcite another part of the brain, and thus not nerely the degree of illumination but the source )f illumination becomes distinguishable. It is by this arrangement that it becomes 3ossible to form ideas of the shape of external )bjects. One directs the eye to the corner of ;he ceiling, and the idea that it is a corner is iue to the fact that three different degrees of llumination are appreciated, and that these can 3e localised—one above, one to the right, and )ne to the left. One set of cells is stimulated ;o one degree, another set of cells to another iegree, and a third set of cells to a third degree ; md the different stimulation of these different sets of cells leads to a different excitation of separate sets of neurons in the brain. These jhanges in the brain are accompanied by the perception of the three parts differently illu- minated. From the previous training of the nervous system we are taught to interpret this as due to a corner. But this interpretation is simply a judgment based upon the sensations, and it may or may not be right, and instead of actually looking at a corner we may be looking at the picture of one. From the very first it must be remembered that the modification of our consciousness which we call vision is not directly due to external conditions, but is a result of changes set up in our brain. We do not perceive the object we are looking at, but simply the changes in our brain produced by changes in the eye set up by rays of light coming from the object. Usually such changes are set up by a certain range of vibrations of the ether, but they may be set up in other ways—e.g. by the mechanical stimulation of a blow on the eye; but, how- ever set up, they give rise to the same kind of changes in consciousness—visual sensation. This fact has been formulated in the doctrine of specific nerve energy, that different varieties of stimuli applied to the same organ of sense always produce the same kind of sensation. And the converse that the same stimulus applied to different organs of sense produces a different kind of sensation for each also holds good. The visual mechanism not only gives the power of appreciating the degree and source of illumination, but also of appreciating colour. Physically the different colours are simply different rates of vibration of the ether, physio- logically they are different kinds of sensations produced by different modes of stimulation of the eye. The slowest visible vibrations produce changes accompanied by a sensation which we call red, the most rapid vibrations produce different changes which we call violet. But, as will be afterwards shown, these sensations may be produced by other modes of stimulating the eye. The visual mechanism in this way gives a flat picture of the outer world, and from this flat picture we have to form judgments of the size, distance, and thickness of the bodies looked at. The idea of size is based upon the extent of the eye-cells stimulated by the light coming from the object. If a large surface is acted upon, the object seems large; if a small surface the object seems small. But the extent of eye- cells acted on depends not merely upon the size of the object, but also upon its distance from the eye, since the further the object is from the eye the smaller is the image formed. Hence, our ideas of size are judgments based upon the size of the picture in the eye, and the appreciation of the distance of the object. The distance of an object, when over fifty or sixty metres from the eye, and very probably even when over as little as six metres, is judged by the modifica-PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAE MECHANISM 534 tions in its shading and colour due to the condition of the atmosphere. A range of hills will at one time be judged to be quite near, at another time to be distant. Since the estima- tion of the size of an object depends upon the judgment of its distance, the estimate we form of the size of such objects as a range of hills is often erroneous. When objects are near the eye, a special mechanism comes into play to enable us to determine their distance (see p. 545). The idea of thickness or contour of an object is also largely a judgment based upon colour and shading. When a cube is looked at, we judge that it is a cube because of the degrees of illumination of the different sides—degrees of illumination which may be reproduced in a flat picture of such a cube. When the object is near the eyes, by using the two eyes together a means of determining solidity comes into action (see p. 545). When the manner in which we gain know- ledge of our surroundings by vision is analysed, it must be admitted that the dictum " seeing is believing " has at best an unsubstantial physio- logical basis, and that most of the points about anything which we say we see—e.g. its size, distance, and contour—are largely judgments formed by us upon a flat picture produced in the cells of the eye, which flat picture has in turn led to these changes in our brain which are accompanied by the changes in our con- sciousness upon which our judgment has to act. Nevertheless in man the visual sense is that which plays the most important part in bring- ing the individual into definite relation with his surroundings. Any defect in the visual mechanism must, and does, lead to defects in the mental picture formed, and the accuracy of the judgment will depend upon the accuracy of the picture, and upon the previous experience and training of the nerve structures involved. But, further, while the parts of the brain connected with the visual sense are usually stimulated by changes in the cells of the eye, they may be directly stimulated ; and when this is the case, a sensation of light, apparently in front of the eye, is experienced, because the centres are naturally stimulated by light enter- ing the eye. Sensations thus produced are called illusions, and they are well illustrated by the apparent flashes of light before the eyes which sometimes precede an epileptic attack and which are caused by direct irritation of the surface of the brain. B. Anatomy of the Eye.—Before attempting to study the physiology of the eye, the student must dissect an ox's or a j^ig's eye, and then make himself familiar with the microscopic structure of the various parts. The eye may be described as a hollow sphere of fibrous tissue (Fig. 50), the posterior part. the sclerotic (ScL), being opaque ; the anterior part, the cornea (Cor.), being transparent and forming part of a sphere of smaller diameter than the sclerotic. Inside the sclerotic coat is a loose fibrous layer, the choroid (Chor.), the connective-tissue cells of which are loaded with Fig. 50.—Horizontal section through the left eye. Cor., cor- nea; Sol., sclerotic; Opt.N., optic nerve; Chor., choroid; Cil.M., ciliary processes with ciliary muscle; D.P., dilator pupillse muscle ; Sph.P., sphincterpupillse muscle; L., crys- talline lens; S.L., hyaloid membrane forming suspensory ligament and capsule of lens ; Ret., retina. The vertical line passing through the axis of the eye falls upon the central spot of the retina. melanin, a black pigment. This is the vas- cular coat of the eye—the larger vessels run- ning in its outer part, and the capillaries in its inner layer. Anteriorly, just behind the junction of the cornea and sclerotic, it is thickened and raised in a number of ridges, the ciliary process (Gil. M.), running from behind forward and terminating abruptly in front. In these the ciliary muscle is situated. It consists of two sets of non-striped muscular fibres—first, radiating fibres, which take origin from the sclerotic just behind the corneo-sclerotic junc- tion, and run backwards and outwards to be inserted with the bases of the ciliary processes; second, circular fibres which run round the processes just inside the radiating fibres. The choroid is continued forward in front of the ciliary processes to the pupil as the iris, and in it are also two sets of non-striped muscular fibres—first, the circular fibres, a well-marked band running round the pupil, and called the sphincter pupilloi (Sph. P.) muscle ; second, a less well-marked set of radiating fibres, which are absent in some animals, and which constitute the dilator pupilla muscle (D.P.). That part of the eye in front of the iris is filled by a lymph-like fluid, the aqueous humour, while the part behind is occupied by a fine jelly- like mucoid tissue, the vitreous humour. The vitreous humour is enclosed in a delicate fibrous capsule, the hyaloid membrane, and just behind the ciliary processes this membrane becomes tougher, and is so firmly adherent to the pro- cesses that it is difficult to strip it off". It passes forward from the processes as the suspen-PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 535 sory ligament {S.L.), and then splits to form the lens capsule. In this is held the crystalline lens {L.), a biconvex lens, with its greater curvature on its posterior aspect, and characterised by its great elasticity. Normally it is kept somewhat pressed out and flat- \ ^ tened between the layers of the capsule, > 2 but if the suspensory ligament is relaxed its natural elasticity causes it to bulge for- ward. This happens when the ciliary muscle contracts and pulls forward the ciliary processes with the hyaloid mem- brane. Between the hya- loid membrane and the choroid is the retina {Ret.). This is an expansion of the optic nerve, which enters the eye at 3 to 4 mm. to the inner side of the posterior Fig. 61.—Diagram of a section optic axis (Fig. 51). through the retina stained by ™ , ., ^ ^ „, ' Goigi's method. For descrip- The white nerve fibres Gehuchten.*r*' ^""^ P'^ss through the sclerotic, through the choroid, and through the retina, to form the white optic disc, and then losing their white sheath, they spread out in all directions over the front of the retina, to form its first layer— the layer of nerve fibres, 1. These nerve fibres take origin from a layer of nerve cells, 2, behind them, forming the second layer. The dendrites of these cells arborise with the den- drites for the next set of neurons in the third layer—the internal molecular layer, 3. The cells of these neurons are placed in the next or fourth layer—the inner nuclear layer, 4; and from these cells, processes pass backwards to form synapses in the fifth, or outer molec- ular layer, 5, with the dendrites of the ter- minal neurons. These terminal neurons have their cells in the sixth or outer nuclear layer, 6, of the retina, and they pass backwards and end in two special kinds of terminations in the seventh layer of the retina—the rods and cones, 7. These structures are composed of two segments — a somewhat barrel-shaped basal piece, and a transparent terminal part which in the rods is cylindrical and in the cones is pointed. Over the central spot of the eye there are no rods; but the cones lie side by side, and the other layers of the retina are thinned out. The rods and cones are imbedded in the last or eighth layer of the retina—the layer of pigment cells, or tapetum nigrum. The retina stops abruptly in front at the ora serrata, but the tapetum nigrum, along with another layer of epithelial cells representing the rest of the retinal structures, is continued forwards over the ciliary processes and over the back of the iris. The blood-vessels of the retina enter in the middle of the optic nerve, and run out and branch in the anterior layer of the retina. The interior of the eye may be examined by the ophthalmoscope, which consists essentially of a small mirror from which light can be re- flected into the back of the eye, with a small hole in the centre through which the observer can study the illuminated part of the chamber. C. Physiology.—The study of vision may be taken up in the following order:— 1. The mode of formation of pictures on the nerve structures (retina) of the eye. (1) One eye (monocular vision). A. The method in which rays of light are focussed (dioptric mechanism). B. Stimulation of the retina. (2) Two eyes (binocular vision). 2. The conduction of the nerve impulses from the retina to the brain. 3. The position and mode of action of the parts of the brain in which the changes are set up which accompany visual sensations (the visual centre). 1. The Mode of Formation op Pictures upon THE Retina (I.) Monocular Vision A. The Dioptric Mechanism.—Distant Vision.—The eye may be compared to a photo- graphic camera, having in front a lens, or lenses. /a Fig , 52.—To show how parallel rays are brought to a focus on the retina by refraction at the three surfaces, a, Anterior surface of the cornea; b, anterior surface of the lens; and c, posterior surface of the lens. to focus the light upon the sensitive screen behind (Fig. 52). The picture is formed on the screen by the luminous rays from each point outside being concentrated to a point upon the screen. This is brought about by refraction of light as it passes through the various media of the eye—the cornea, aqueous, crystalline lens,536 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM and vitreous. The refractive indices of these, compared with air as unity, may be expressed as follows:— Cornea . 1-33 Lens . .1-45 Aqueous . 1"33 Vitreous . r33 Thus light passes from a medium of one refractive index into a medium of another refractive index— L At the anterior surface of the cornea ; 2. At the anterior surface of the lens; 3. At the posterior surface of the lens ; and at these surfaces it is bent. The degree of bending depends upon—1st, The difference of refractive index ; 2nd, The obliquity with which the light hits the surface. This will vary with the convexity of the lens—being greater the greater the convexity. The posterior surface of the lens has the greatest convexity, with a radius of 6 mm. The anterior surface of the cornea has the next greatest, with a radius of 8 mm. The anterior surface of the lens has the least, Avith a radius of 10 mm. A ray of light passing obliquely through these media will be bent at the three surfaces. These media, in fact, form the physiological lens, a compound lens composed of a convexo- concave part in front, the cornea and aqueous, and a biconvex part, the crystalline lens, behind. In the resting normal eye (emmetropic eye) the principal focus is exactly the distance behind the lens at which the layer of rods and cones in the retina is situated, and thus it is upon these that light coming from luminous points at a distance is focussed. Positive Accommodation. — If an object is brought nearer and nearer to the eye, the rays of light entering the eye become more and more divergent; and if the eye be set so that rays from a distance —i.e. parallel rays— are focussed, then Fig. 53.—To show that rays from c distant and near objects are not ^ays irom a nearer focussed on the retina at the same obiect will be fo- time. n 1 1 . T , cussed behmd the retina, and a clear image will not be formed (Fig. 53). This means that near and far objects cannot be distinctly seen at the same time, a fact which can be readily demonstrated by Scheiner's Experiment. Make two pin-holes in a card so near that they fall within the diameter of the pupil. Close one eye and hold the holes in front of the other. Get someone to hold a needle against a sheet of white paper at about three yards from the eye, and hold another needle in the same line at about a foot from the eye. When the near needle is looked at the far needle becomes double (Fig. 54). It is found that objects at a greater distance than 6 metres may practically be considered as " distant," and that they are focussed on the retina. Objects may be brought nearer and nearer to the eye, and yet be seen distinctly up to a certain point, the near point of accommodation within which they cannot be sharply focussed upon the retina. This, however, requires a change in the lens arrangement of the eye, and this change, beginning when the object FIQ. 54.—Scheiner's experiment - ■ represents rays from the near needle and - - - - rays from the far needle. comes within about 6 metres (the far point of accommodation), becomes greater and greater, till it can increase no further when the near point is reached. The change is called positive accommodation, and it consists in an increased curvature of the anterior surface of the lens. This may be proved by examining the images formed from the three refracting surfaces (Sanson's images), when it will be found that the image from the anterior surface of the lens becomes smaller and brighter when the eye is directed to a near object. The examination of these images is facilitated by the use of the Phakoscope. Positive accommodation is brought about by contraction of the ciliary muscle (see p. 534), which pulls forward the ciliary processes to which the hyaloid membrane is attached, and thus relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens and the front of the lens capsule, and allows the natural elasticity of the lens to bulge it forward (Fig. 55). This change of positive accommodation is FlQ. 55.—Mechanism of positive accommodation. The con- tinuous lines show the parts in negative accommodation, the dotted lines the positive accommodation. accompanied by a contraction of the pupil due to contraction of the sphincter pupillje muscle. By this means the more divergent peripheral rays which would have been focussed behind the central ones to produce a blurred image are cut off, and spherical aberration is prevented. The muscles acting in positive accommoda- tion—the ciliary and sphincter pupilla) (Fig. 55, CM. and S.P.)—are supplied by the third cranial nerve (///.), while the dilator pupilla; is supplied by fibres passing up the sympathetic of the neck. The centre for the third nerve isPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 537 situated under the aqueduct of Sylvius, and separate parts preside over the ciliary muscle and the sphincter pupillse (see p. 559). The sphincter centre is reflexly called into action, and the pupil contracted—1st, When strong light falls on the retina and stimulates the optic nerve. In this way the retina is pro- tected against over-stimulation ; 2nd, When the image upon the retina becomes blurred as the object approaches the eye. At the same time CM s.f: D.P- Fia. 56.—Nerve supply of the intrinsic muscles of the eye. (See text.) Years. 10 20 Near point in cms. 30 50 the centre for the ciliary muscle is also called into play to produce accommodation. The centre for dilatation of the pupil is situated in the medulla oblongata. Like the centre of the sphincter it may be reflexly excited, stimulation of ingoing nerves causing a dilata- tion of the pupil when the medulla is intact (Fig. 56). The dilator fibres pass down the lateral columns of the spinal cord to the lower cervi- cal and upper dorsal region, where they arborise round cells in the anterior horn. From these, fibres pass by the anterior root of the second {2 D.N.), possibly also of the first and third dorsal nerves, and, passing up through the inferior cervical ganglion, run on to the superior ganglion, where they arborise round cells which send axons to the Gasserian ganglion of the fifth cranial nerve (F.), and from there the fibres pass along the ophthalmic division and its long ciliary branches to the dilator fibres of the iris {D.P.). The importance of the course taken by these dilator fibres is considerable, because diseases of the spinal cord in the lower cervical and upper dorsal region (the cilio-spinal region), and tumours in the upper mediastinum, may inter- fere with their action, and by stimulating cause chronic dilatation of the pupil, or by paralysing prevent dilatation of the pupil. Since the dilator muscle fibres of the pupil have not been demonstrated in all animals, it has been sug- gested that the nerve may act by inhibiting the sphincter pupillse ; but the evidence on this point is not conclusive. A peripheral mechanism exists in the muscle of the iris which may act independently of the central nervovis system, as may be seen in the eye of a decapitated cat, and various drugs act directly upon it—e.g. physostigmin caus- ing a contraction of the pupil by acting upon the nerve endings, and pilocarpine by acting on the muscle fibres. Adrenalin causes a dilatation by acting on the nerve endings, and atropine by acting in the same way. The power of positive accommodation varies at different ages, being greatest in young children, since in early life the lens is most convex. The distance of the near point in cms. is represented in the accompanying figure. The " range of accommodation," i.e. the difference between the " near point " and the " far point," steadily decreases as age advances. After about sixty years of age, on account of the flattening of the lens, even parallel rays cannot be focussed except by using positive accommodation. This is the fully-developed condition of Presbyopia— old-sightedness (Fig. 58, B). Imperfections of the Dioptric Mechanism.— (1) Hyperrnetropia.—The eye of a considerable number of people is too short from before back- wards, and thus, in the resting state, parallel rays are focussed behind the retina, and in order to see even a distant object the individual has to use his positive accommodation. As the object is approached to the eye it is focussed 60 22 100 Fig. 57.—To show variations in the range of positive accommodation throughout life. with greater and greater difficulty, and the near point is farther off than in the emmetropic eye (Fig. 58, C). The long-sighted eye differs from the slightly presbyopic in the fact that not merely divergent, but also parallel rays, are unfocussed in the resting state. The condition is corrected by using convex- glasses which render the rays convergent, and, therefore, capable of being focussed upon the retina of the shortened eye. (2) Myopia. — In certain individuals the538 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM antero-posterior diameter of the eye is too long, and as a result parallel rays—rays from distant objects—are focussed in front of the retina, and it is only when the object is brought near to the eye that a perfect image can be formed. In such an eye no positive accommodation is needed till the object is well within the normal far point, and the near point is approximated to the eye. To enable distant objects to be seen it is necessary to provide concave glasses by which the parallel rays are rendered divergent (Fig. 58, Z>). (3) Astigmatism is a defect due to unequal curvature of one or more of the refracting surfaces in different planes. If the vertical curvature of the cornea is greater than the horizontal, when a vertical line is looked at. —' I >< B Fig. 59.—To show the cause of astigmatism. A, A slight curva- ture of the cornea in the vertical plane ; B, more marked curvature in the horizontal plane, leading to rays from b— a horizontal line being focussed in front of the retina when a—a vertical line—is looked at. horizontal lines will not be sharply focussed at the same time. To correct this condition, the lesser curvature in any particular plane must be made as great as the greater curvature in the other plane, and this is done by placing a cylindrical or part cylindrical glass in front of the eye so that its curvature is in front of the lesser curvature of the eye and thus equalises it with the other curvature (Fig. 59). B. Stimulation of the Retina.—1. Reaction to Varying Illuminations.—(1) The Blind Spot. —At the entrance of the optic nerve the retina cannot be stimulated because there are no end organs in that situation. The existence of such a blind spot may be demonstrated—1st, By Mariotte's experiment, which consists in making two marks in a horizontal line on a piece of paper, closing the left eye, fixing the right eye on the left-hand mark with the paper held at a distance from the eye, when both marks are visible, then bringing the paper nearer to the eye, when the right-hand mark will first disappear, and, when the paper is brought still nearer, will reappear (Fig. 60, a). 2nd, By making a mark on a sheet of paper, and with the head close to the paper moving the point of a pencil to the right for the right eye, or to the left for the left eye, when the point will disappear and again reappear (Fig. 60, b). The eye is blind for all objects in the shaded re- gion. By resolving the various triangles the distance of the blind spot from the central spot of the eye may be deter- mined (3 to 4 mm.), and the diameter of the blind spot (1"5 mm.) may also be ascertained. The shape of the blind spot may be mapped out by fixing the head close to the paper, moving the point of the pencil out till it dis- appears, and then moving it in different directions and marking when it reappears. It is never quite circular, and often shows rays extending from its edge which are due to the blood-vessels. (2) The Field of Vision.—The rest of the retina forward to the ora serrata is capable of stimulation; but when the eye is directed forwards the extent of retina stimulated is influenced by the eyebrow cutting off rays from above and thus preventing the lower part of the retina being stimulated to its margin, and by the nose intercepting rays from the nasal side, thus protecting the outer part of the retina. The whole range of objects which can be seen at one time constitutes the field of vision, and it may be indicated by the optical angle subtended by that range of objects. As the distance from the eye increases the field of vision expands. It may be investigated by the perimeter, an instrument which can readily be made by describing the arc of a circle upon a blackboard or sheet of paper, placing the eye at the centre and directing it to a mark in the middle of the circumference, and then bringing a piece of chalk inwards along the line until it Fig. 58.—To illustrate presbyopia, hj'permetropia, and myopia. A, Emmetropic eye; B, pres- byopic eye ; C, hypermetropic eye ; D, myopic eye ; J/'.P.o, the near point, and F.P.x, the far point of accommodation.539 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM is seen (Fig. 61). On bringing an object from above, it is not seen till A is reached, while on bringing it from below it is seen at D. The Fia. 60.—Methods of demonstrating the blind spot: a, by Mariotte's experiment; b, by moving a pencil along a sheet of paper. angle BBC is larger than C£A. The angle ABD is subtended by the vertical field of vision, and it will be observed how it is constricted by the eyebrow. The verticle angle amounts to Fig. 61.—The field of vision, and the metliod of investigating it by the perimeter. C, the point in the arc of a circle to which the eye, B, is directed. about 130°, i.e. 60° in the upper field and 70° in the lower field. The horizontal field, worked out in the same way, gives about 150°, of which no less than 90° are on the outer side and only 60° on the inner. Of all parts of the retina the central spot is the most sensitive to differences of illimiination in bright light. (3) The laye7^ of the retina capable of stimula- tion is the layer of rods and cones. This is proved by the experiment of Purkinje's images, which depends upon the fact that if a ray of light is thrown through the sclerotic coat of the eye the shadow of the blood-vessels stimu- lates a subjacent layer (Fig. 62, c), and these vessels appear as a series of wriggling lines on the surface looked at. If the light be moved, the lines seem to move, and, by resolving the triangles, it is possible to calculate the distance behind the vessels of the part stimulated, and this distance is fovmd to corre- spond to the thickness of the retina. The shadows of the blood-vessels are not seen in ordinary vision, be- cause they then fall upon parts of the retina which are insensitive. The cones are the more specialised elements of the retina, and they react more particularly to bright light, which soon exhausts the rods. The rods, again, react fig. 62.—To show that the to faint illumination. This ?eti^a°is 'sttaukted. explains why it is that, when {Piijhinje's images^ ^ ... T 1 • 1 j_ Source of light; 6, we go out into a dark night blood-vessel of retina; from a brightly lighted room, *^t^/',resf 7 we at first can see nothing image of shadow men- clearly, but after a time, when the wai'i"^^'''^^*^ *° the rods have recovered, we begin to see objects more distinctly. It also explains why it is that if we direct our eye to a small faintly shining star we may fail to see it, because its image falls on cones alone, while it becomes visible if the eye be directed slightly from it. The rods seem incapable of giving rise to colour sensation, and when the solar spectrum is looked at in a very dim light it appears as a greyish band of illumination with the red end wanting, because the slow red vibrations fail to stimulate the rods. It is because the blue end of the spectrum is the more active in faint illu- mination that the illusion of a moonlight scene may be got by looking through a blue glass, while looking through a yellow glass gives the idea of sunlight and brilliant illumination. (4) Modes of Stimulation. — The rods and cones are generally stimulated by the ethereal light vibration, but they may be stimulated by mechanical violence or by sudden changes in an electric current. But, however stimulated, the kind of sensation is always of the same kind —a visual sensation (see p. 354). (5) Of the nature of the changes in the retina when stimulated we know little. But we know that—PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 540 1st. Under the influence of light the cells of the tapetum nigrum expand forward between the rods and cones. 2nd. A purple pigment which exists in the outer segment of the rods is bleached. Even although there is no purple in the cones, which alone occupy the sensitive central spot of the eye, this change in colour suggests that a chemical decomposition accompanies stimulation. 3rd. Electrical changes occur. (6) Fatigue.—If a bright light be looked at for some time, the part of the retina acted upon is temporarily blinded, and hence when the eye is taken off the bright light a dark spot is seen. This is sometimes called a negative after image. When coloured lights are used the phenomena of complemental colours are produced (p. 541). Sometimes the stimulation of the retina or of the brain neurons connected with it may last after the withdrawal of the stimulus, when a continuance of the sensation — a positive after image—is seen. This may be observed if, on opening the eyes in the morning, a well- illuminated window is looked at and the eyes closed. A persisting image of the window may be seen. 2. The Poiver of Localising the Source or Direction of Illumination.—This may be de- termined in the same way as in studying the sense of touch—by finding how near two points may be stimulated and still give rise to a double sensation. Over the central spot two points of a i c d b Fig. 63.—The power of localising the source of illumination on different parts of the retina. The two points, a-b, subtended by the small angle, fall close together at a-b near the centre of the retina, and still give rise to a double sensation; but if two points, c-d, have their images formed on the periphery of the retina, c-d, these images must be far apart to cause a double sensation. illumination may be as near to one another as about four micro-millimetres, and still two sen- sations be experienced. This is determined by finding the smallest optical angle which can be subtended by, say, two stars without their images being fused. This angle varies from seventy-three to fifty seconds in different indi- viduals, and this corresponds to from 5-31 to 3'65 micros, on the retina (Fig. 63). Over the central spot the centres of the cones are about this distance from one another, and it would seem that, to get a double sensation, two cones must be stimulated. On passing to the more peripheral part of the retina, where the cones are more scattered, the power of localising de- creases and larger and larger optical angles must be subtended by the two objects—e.g. the points of a pair of compasses—in order that both may be seen. As pointed out on p. 539, this condition applies more especially to the eye when brightly illuminated. 3. Colour Sensation—Physics of Light Vibra- tion.—Physically the various colours are essen- tially different rates of vibration of the ether, and only a comparatively small range of these vibrations stimulate the retina. The slowest acting vibrations are at the rate of about 435 billions per second, while the fastest are not more than 764 billions — the relationship of the slowest to the fastest is something like 4 to 7. The apparent colour of objects is due to the fact that they absorb certain parts of the spectrum, and either transmit onwards other parts, or reflect other parts. The vast variety of colours which are perceived in nature is due to the fact that the pure spectral colours are modified by the brightness of illumination, and by admixture with other parts of the spectrum. Thus a surface which in bright sunlight appears of a brilliant red, becomes maroon, and finally brown and black, as the light fades. Again, a pure red when diluted with all the spectrum— i.e. with white light—becomes pink as it becomes less and less saturated. Physiology of Colour Sensation.—1. The peri- pheral part of the retina is colour blind—is incapable of acting so as to produce colour sensations. This may be shown by means of the perimeter and coloured chalks. Until the chalk is brought well within the field of vision FlQ. 64.—Distribution of colour sensation in relationship to the surface of the retina (Colour Perimeter). A indicates the extent of retina stimulated by white and black; B, the part also capable of stimulation by blue and yellow ; and C, the central part capable also of stimulation by red and green. its colour cannot be made out. As the image of the chalk travels in along the retina it is found that yellow and blue can be distinguished before red and green—that is, that there is a zone of retina which is blind to red and green, but which can distinguish blue and yellow. Only the central part of the retina is capable of being stimulated by all colours. These zonesEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 541 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND N: are not sharply defined, and vary in extent with the size and brightness of the coloured image (Fig. 64). 2. While the various sensations which we call colour are generally produced by vibrations of different lengths falling on the retina, colour sensations are also produced in various other ways. (a) By mechanical stimulation of the retina. By pressing on the eyeball as far back as possible a yellow ring, or part of a ring, may often be seen. (6) Simple alterna- tion of white and black upon the retina may produce colour sensation, as when a disc of paper marked FIG. 65.—Disc which, when rotated with lines, aS shown ^?oSo^"<fo'}ou^?*''""'"^"" in Fig. 65, is rotated rapidlybeforethe eye. 3. By allowing different parts of the spectrum to fall upon the eye at the same time, it is possible to produce either a sensation of white or of some other part of the spectrum. To produce a sensation of white from two or three different parts of the spectrum, a due proportion of each part must be taken, since different parts have different sensational activity. This may be represented by plotting out the various parts of the spectrum on a curve, and joining them to a central spot by means of lines. The length of the line then represents the relative sensitive activity of the particular part of the spectrum to which it passes (Fig. 66). This means that by different modes of stimu- lation of the retina the same sensation may be produced. The sensation of orange may be FlO. I produced either when vibrations at about 580 billions per second fall on the eye, or when two sets of vibrations, one about 640 and one about 560 biUions, reach it. By no possible physical combination of the two is it possible to produce the intermediate rate of vibration. The sensation of colour, therefore, depends upon the nature of the change set up in the retina, and not upon the condition producing that change. What we call colours are particular changes in our consciousness which accompany particular changes in our brain neurons produced by par- ticular changes set up in the retina, in what- ever way these changes may have been produced. 4. After looking for some time at any one colour, on removing the colour another appears in its place—the complemental colour. If the first colour is— Red, the second will be green blue; Orange, ,, „ blue; Green, ,, ,, pink; Yellow, „ ,, indigo blue; and vice versd. Theories of Colour Vision. — 1. From con- sideration of the peripheral colour-blind zone of the retina and of the more limited area giving sensations only of blue and yellow when stimu- lated, and of the most limited central part giving also sensations of red and green, it would seem that some special substance or substances must exist in each of these areas which by its or their stimulation give rise to the various sensations. 2. Considered along with this, the phenomena of complemental colours suggest the possibility of there being one substance which when under- going one change, say breaking down, produces yellow, and when vindergoing another change, say building up, produces blue, and another substance which when undergoing one change produces red, and another change produces green. If such a view be correct, it becomes almost necessary to postulate the existence of another substance which when stimulated gives rise to sensations which we call white. Or there might be four different substances, one when changed giving rise to yellow, another to blue, another to red, and another to green. When the substance giving the sensation of yellow is used up, then the parts stimulated by the rest of the spectrum would react to white light and give a complemental colour, and so on through the other substances. It has also been suggested that the facts may be explained on the assumption that there are three substances in the retina, one more especially stimulated by the red rays but also acted on by the others, one chiefly stimulated by the green rays, and one chiefly acted on by the blue rays. Such theories, however, do not call for consideration from the ordinary student. Colour-Blindness.—While everyone is colour blind at the periphery of the retina, a certain proportion of people—about 5 per cent—are unable to distinguish reds and greens, even at the centre of the retina. Individuals who manifest this condition are often able to name colours fairly accurately, but when asked to match a piece of red wool from a number ofPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES A.ND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 542 others, they tend to put beside it green wools. The condition is of great importance to engine- drivers and seamen. Colour-blindness for yellow and blue is very rare. (II.) Binocular Vision By the fact that there are two eyes instead of only one, the following advantages are attained :— 1. The Field of Vision is increased, but is not doubled. This is shown in Fig. 67, where the L.FY Fig. 67.—The field of vision in binocular vision. The two eyes are directed to a point, A. The field of vision of the right eye subtends the angle formed by the continuous lines, and that of the left that subtended by the dotted lines. The overlap of the fields is shown on the surface looked at, and in the figure below, B..F. V. and L.F. V. two eyes are directed to a spot A, and where the field of vision of the right eye is indicated by continuous lines, that of the left eye by dotted lines. The two fields greatly overlap, and the central part is common to the two eyes. In animals where the eyes are placed laterally, the two fields are independent. 2. A mechanism is afforded for the deter- mination of the distance of near objects, because as an object is approached, the two eyes have to be turned inwards by the internal recti muscles, and by the degree of contraction of these an estimation of the distance is made. The importance of this may be demonstrated by fixing a stick vertically, rapidly walking up to it with one eye shut, and endeavouring to touch it with the finger. 3. A means of determining the solidity of an object is afforded, because if the object is near, a slightly different picture is given on each retina, and ex- perience has taught us that this stereoscopic vision indi- F7! M *'*';^stor°"'°^'"' cates solidity (Fig. 68). Corresponding Areas of the Two Retina;.—In order that with the two eyes single vision may occur, the eyes must be directed to the same place, so that the image of that place falls on each central spot. If this does not occur, double vision results. The central spot of one eye thus corresponds to the Fig. 69.—Corresponding areas of the two retinse in binocular vision. The upper and outer area of the right retina corresponds to the upper and inner area of the left retina, and the other areas correspond as shown by the shading. In each pair of areas definite points correspond with one another, a—a. central spot of the other, and certain points in each retina have corresponding points in the other which are stimulated by the same part of the picture when the eyes are working together (Fig. 69). Movements of Eyeballs.—To secure this har- monious action of the two retinse, it is necessary that the eyes should be freely mov- able. Each eye in its orbit is a ball and socket joint in which the eyeball moves round every axis (Fig. 70). The axis of the eye (a) is directed straight forward and is set obliquely to the axis of the orbit {b), and the centre of rotation is be- hind the centre of the ball. The movements are produced by three pairs of muscles. 1. The internal and external recti, IR. and Ex.R. 9 TVio Qimorinv FIG. 70.—The left eyeball in the orbit, 4. 1 ne b uperiui ^.^j^ ^j^^ muscles acting upon it. and inferior recti acting along the lines indicated S.R. 3. The superior and inferior obliques acting in the line S.ob. The internal rectus rotates the pupil inwards. „ external „ „ „ outwards. i upwards „ superior „ „ „ < and in- ( wards. I downwards „ inferior „ „ „ I and in- I wards. i downwards < and ou ( wards. „ superior oblique „ „ <! and out- ,, inferior ,, ,, „ i upwards < and out- ( wards. In directing the eyes to the right, the external rectus of the right eye acts along with the internal rectus of the left. In directing the eyes straight upwards, the superior rectus and inferior oblique of each eye act together; and in looking downwards, the inferior rectus and superior oblique come into play (Fig. 71). Relationship of the Optic ^a;es. — When a distant object is looked at, the axes of the two eyes may be considered as parallel; but as an object is approached to the eyes, the axes con-PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 543 verge. It is not possible by voluntary effort to diverge the optic axis or to rotate the eyes round antero-posterior axes. " Glance " Movements of the Eyes.—When the eyes are allowed to sweep over a landscape or No e In. 01. SR InR. UR. Fig. 71.—The movements of the pupil caused by the various muscles of the eye. (Right eye.) any series of objects, or when these move rapidly past the eyes, or the eyes rapidly past them, as in travelling by train, the axes are directed in a series of glances to different points, and the succession of pictures thus got gives the idea of the continuous series of objects. This jerking movement of the eyes may be well seen in a passenger looking out of a railway carriage in motion. Nervous Mechanism.—A somewhat complex nervous mechanism presides over these various movements of the eyes. All the muscles are supplied by the third cranial nerve, except the superior oblique, which is supplied by the fourth nerve, and the external rectus, which is supplied by the sixth nerve (Fig. 72; see also Fig. 95, p. 558). The centres for the third and fourth nerves are situated in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius under the corpora quadrigemina, while the centre for the sixth is in the pons Varolii (Fig. 96, p. 559, and Fig. 95). The various centres are joined by bands of nerve fibres which pass between the sixth and fourth and third centres, and in part at least cross the middle line. A combined mechanism, each part of which acts harmoniously with the other parts, thus presides over the ocular movements, and this mechanism is controlled by impulses constantly received from the two retinae, from the ears and from the brain. Thus in convergence of the optic axes the parts of the nuclei of the third nerves which supply the internal recti muscles must act harmoniously together, and hence a mechanism to direct this convergence may be postulated. In lateral deviation of the eyes that part of the nucleus of the third nerve which presides over the internal rectus of one side acts harmoniously with the sixth nerve supplying the external rectus of the other side, and hence it may be supposed that a directing mechanism for lateral deviation exists possibly in the superior olive. Similarly a centre or centres presiding over the movements of the eyes in a vertical plane may be supposed to exist. Fig. 72.—The nervous mechanism pre- siding over the combined movements of the two eyes. I.E., Internal rec- tus; £.i£., external rectus; CO., con- vergent centre acting on the internal recti througli the nuclei of the third nerve; S.O., superior olive (centre for lateral divergence) acting on the ex- ternal rectus of the same side through the nucleus of the sixth, and on the internal rectus of the opposite side through the nucleus of the third ; E, ear. Paralysis of these muscles and of the nerves supplying them leads to a loss of the co-ordinated movements of the two eyes, with the result that the optic axes are no longer parallel and squint is produced. As a result of this, corresponding points on the two retinae are not stimulated by rays from the same object, and double vision—- d iplopia—-re- sults. The image formed upon the normal eye may be called the true image, that on the affected eye the false image. The false image seems to occupy a place in the field of vision on that side of the true image to- wards which the paralysed muscle should direct the eye. Thus when the sixth nerve and its muscle, the external rectus, are para- lysed on the right side, the false image is seen to the right of the true image. When the third nerve of the right eye, under the action of which the eye is directed upwards and in- wards, is paralysed, the false image appears above and to the left of the true image. In long-standing cases of squint the false image is suppressed or ignored by the consciousness. The movements of the eyes involve not merely the contraction of definite muscles, but also the co-ordinated inhibition of others (see p. 542). 2. Connections op the Eyes with the Central Nervous System From each eye the optic nerve extends back- wards and inwards to join the other optic nerve at the chiasma. From the chiasma the two optic tracts pass upwards round the crura cerebri to end in two divisions—- 1. A posterior division passing to the anterior corpora quadrigemina on the same side (Fig. 73, A.C.Q.; see also p. 562). 2. An anterior division running to the geni- culate body on the posterior aspect of the thalamus opticus (Fig. 73, Op. Th.). In most of the lower animals a complete decussation of the optic fibres takes place, so that the nerve fibres from the left eye go to the right side of the brain, and vice versa. But in man and apes a partial crossing of the fibres takes place in the chiasma—fibres from the middle and internal part of the retina decus-PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 544 sating, those from the outer part remaining on the same side. For this reason, section of the right optic tract leads to partial blindness of Occ Occ. L. no. 73.—The connections of the retinse with the central nervous system. R, Ketinse ; Ch., chiasma leading to optic tract; Op.Th., optic thalamus; A.C.Q., anterior corpora quadri- gemina; Oc.M., oculo-motor mechanism (Fig. 72); Ooc.L., occipital lobe of the cerebrum; Teg., tegmentum. both retinse—on the outer part of the right eye and on the inner and middle part of the left eye. Thus objects on the left side of the field of vision are not seen. The fibres of the posterior termination of the optic tract end in synapses with neurons in the corpora qiiadrigemina, and the fibres of these neurons pass downwards and control the oculo- motor mechanism already described (Fig. 72, p. 543). The fibres of the anterior division make synapses with other neurons in the posterior part of the thalamus, and these neurons send their fibres backwards to the occipital lobe of the brain, where they connect with the cortical neurons (Fig. 73, Occ, supra; see also p. 568). When the right occipital lobe or the strand of fibres leading to it is destroyed, blindness on the outer part of the right retina and on the inner and middle part of the left retina results —the individual is blind for all objects in the left half of the field of vision. 3. The Visual Centre A response to stimulation on the part of the neurons in the occipital lobe of the brain (p. 568) is the physical basis of our visual sensations, and hence this part of the brain is called the visual centre. Usually the visual centre is stimulated by changes in the chain of neurons passing from the retina and set in action by retinal changes. But visual sensa- tions may be produced either by direct stimula- tion of the occipital lobe, as is sometimes seen in the early part of an epileptic fit, or by the previous action of other chains of neurons, as in dreaming. The strength of the sensation varies with the strength of the stimulus, and the smallest difference of sensation which can be appreciated is a constant factor of the degree of stimulation. Thus, to produce a change in visual sensation, the strength of the stimulus must vary by about T^th of the stimulus. The strength of the sensation also depends upon the condition of the visual centre whether induced by (a) the general nutrition of the centre, or (b) the simul- taneous activity of other neural mechanisms. When some other neural chains are powerfully in action, light falling on the retina may fail to produce a sensation, i.e. may fail to modify the consciousness. The sensation lasts longer than the stimulus, and thus, if a series of stimuli follow one another at sufiiciently rapid intervals, a fusion of sensations is produced. If a wheel rotating slowly is looked at, the individual spokes are seen; but when it is going more rapidly, the appearance of a continuous surface is presented. When the light is dim, this fusion take place more readily that when the light is bright. From this it is concluded that a strong stimulus causes a more sudden and acute sensation than a weak one, and, therefore, the individual sen- sations are distinguished. But very strong stimuli may leave a prolonged effect, and hence a positive after image may be produced (p. 540). When the stimuli do not follow one another sufficiently rapidly to cause a continuous sen- sation—which may be compared to a complete tetanus in a muscle—a " flicker sensation " is produced, a condition comparable to incomplete tetanus. When, instead of black and white, lights of different colours are used, if the alter- nation is sufficiently rapid a sensation of an in- termediate colour or of white may be produced (p. 541), or, if slower, a flickering alternation of the two colours may be experienced. The visual centre of each side must be re- garded as a chart of the opposite field of vision, each part corresponding to a particular part of the field. The two centres acting together give the whole field of vision (Fig. 67, p. 542). Since the blind spot is not represented in the centre, it is not perceived in the field of vision. The centre is said to rectify the inverted image formed on the retina, but this simply means that as a result of experience, we have learned that changes in, say, the lower part of the retinse, and in the corresponding parts of the visual centres, are produced by light from above the head.545 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Since the retinal changes vary only according to the degree of illumination, i.e. the amplitude of vibration of the ethereal waves, and the rate of these waves, and since the part of the retina acted on is determined by the direction of the rays, we have the means of getting a flat picture only of what we look at, but no special arrange- ments for having different sensations according to the distance of an object or according to whether it is flat or in relief. Thus the means of determining the size, distance, and form of objects by the visual mechanism is very limited. The means of estimating the actual size of an object has been considered on p. 533. The distance of objects is estimated: (1) when outside the range of positive accommodation, first, by the apparent size; second, by aerial perspective—the effect of the atmosphere; third, by Tnatheniatical perspective — the apparent convergence of lines in the distance, as is well seen in look- ing up a railway track; (2) when inside the range of positive accommodation, first, by the extent of positive accommodation required to focus them (p. 536), and second, by the extent of convergence of the optic axes required to keep the image on the central spots of the two retinge (p. 542). The Contour is estimated in the same way as the distance, and by stereoscopic vision with the two eyes. It is not then wonderful that erroneous judg- ments are frequently made. The possibility of such may be indicated by one or two examples of what are called modified perceptions. (1) If a black wafer on a white ground and a white wafer on a black ground be looked at, the latter will appear larger than the former, because the light from the white part radiates over the margin. colour and after images may be classed under such modified perceptions. (4) If a square be ruled with parallel diagonal lines, and if short vertical and horizontal lines be placed alternately upon them, they will no longer appear parallel (Fig. 75). (c) For Vibration of Air.—Sense of Hear- ing.—1. General Considerations.—While through Fig. 74.—To illustrate an optical illusion (2) If an imaginary line be divided into two equal parts, and if a series of dots be put along the one half, that part will appear longer than the other (Fig. 74). (3) Contrasts.—(a) Simultaneous.—A black wafer placed on a white ground will appear of a deeper black than if placed on a grey ground, and a red wafer will appear more red when placed on a green ground. (6) Successive. — If the eye look from a green surface to a red surface, the red will appear more intense than if the eye has been looking first at a grey surface. The various phenomena of complemental VOL. VII Fia. 75.—To illustrate an optical illusion. ZnT. Fig. 76.—Diagram of the ear. Ex.il., External meatus; Ty., tympanic membrane ; m., malleus ; i'., incus; s., stapes; f.o., fenestra ovalis; f.r., fenestra rotunda; En.T., Eustachian tube; w., vestibule with the utricle and saccule ; s.c, semicircular canal; Coch., cochlea. the tactile mechanism differences of pressure act as stimuli, through the ear certain vibratory changes of pressure stimulate and may affect the consciousness. Even simple organisms, de- void of any special organ of hearing, may be affected by vibratory changes, and in fish it is difficult to be certain how far such vibrations produce their effect through the ear or through the body generally. But in higher vertebrates it is chiefly through the ears that they act. In these there is a special arrangement by which the vibrations of the air are converted into vibrations of a fluid in a sac situated in the side of the head into which the free ends of neurons project (Fig. 76). The importance of such a mechanism in the anterior part of the animal in warning it of danger, or making it aware of the presence of its prey, is manifest. In mammals the organ of hearing consists of an external, a middle, and an internal ear. The first is to conduct the vibrations of the air to the second, in which these vibrations produce to and fro movements of a bony lever, by which the fluid in the third is alternately compressed and relaxed. 2. External Ear.—The structure of this pre- sents no point of special physiological interest. In lower animals the pinna is under the control of muscles, and is of use in determining the direction from which soimd comes. 3. Middle Ear.—The object of the middle ear is to overcome the mechanical difficulty of changing vibrations of air into vibrations of a fluid. It consists of a chamber, the tympanic cavity, placed outside of the petrous part of 35546 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM the temporal bone (Fig. 76). Its outer wall is formed by a membrane, the memhrana tympani (Tt/.), which is attached to a ring of bone. Its inner wall presents two openings into the in- ternal ear—the fenestra ovalis (f.o.), an oval opening, situated anteriorly and above, and the fenestra rotunda (fr.), a round opening placed below and behind. Throughout life these are closed: the former by the foot of the stapes, which is attached to the margin of the hole by a membrane ; the latter by a membrane. The posterior wall shows openings into the mastoid cells, and presents a small bony projection, which transmits the stapedius muscle. The anterior wall has above a bony canal carrying the tensor tympani muscle, and below this the canal of the Eustachian tube, which communi- cates with the posterior nares (Fig. 76, Ent.). In the tympanic cavity are three ossicles— the malleus (m.), incus (^'.), and stapes (s.), forming a chain between the membrana tympani and the fenestra ovalis. The handle of the malleus is attached to the membrana tympani, and each time a wave of condensation hits the membrane it drives in the handle of the malleus. This, by a small process, pushes inwards the long process of the incus, which thrusts the stapes into the fenestra ovalis, and thus in- creases the pressure in the enclosed fluid of the internal ear. The fenestra rotunda (fr.) with its membrane acts as a safety valve. The bones rotate round an antero-posterior axis passing through the heads of the malleus and incus. They thus form a lever with the arm to which the power is applied—the handle of the malleus —longer than the other arm. The advantage of this is that, while the range of movement of the stapes in the fenestra ovalis is reduced, its force is proportionately increased. The range of the movement is still further controlled by the stapedius muscle, which twists the stapes in the fenestra. This muscle seems to act when loud sounds fall on the ear, and when its nerve supply, derived from the facial nerve, is paralysed, such sounds are heard with painful intensity. If the membrana tympani is violently forced outwards by closing the nose and mouth and forcing air up the Eustachian tube, the incus and stapes do not accompany the malleus and membrane, since the malleo-incal articulation becomes unlocked. The membrana tympani is so loosely slung that it has no proper note of its own, and responds to a very large range of vibrations. By the attachment to it of the handle of the malleus it is well damped, and stops vibrating as soon as waves of condensation and rarefaction have ceased to fall upon it. The tensor tym- pani muscle, supplied by the fifth cranial nerve, has some action in favouring the vibration of the membrane, and its paralysis diminishes the acuteness of hearing. Fig. 77. — Transverse section through car- tilaginous lower part of Eustachian tube to show the cartilagin- ous arch cut across and the way in which it is pulled down and the tube opened in swallowing (shaded). The Eustachian tube has a double function. It allows the escape of mucus from the middle ear, and it allows the entrance of air, so that the pressure is kept equal on both sides of the membrana tympani. Its lower part is generally closed, but opens in the act of swallowing. It is surrounded by an arch of cartilage, to one side of which fibres of the tensor palati are attached, so that when this muscle acts in swallowing, the arch of cartilage is drawn down and flattened, and the tube opened up (Fig. 77). When the Eustachian tube gets occluded, as a result of catarrh of the pharynx, the oxygen in the middle ear is absorbed by the tissues, and the pressure falls. As a re- sult, the membrane is driven inwards by the atmospheric pressure, and does not readily vibrate, and hearing is impaired. 4. Internal Ear.—The internal ear is a some- what complex cavity in the petrous part of the temporal bone, the osseous labyrinth. It is filled with fluid, the perilymph. It consists of a central space, the vestibule (V.), into which the fenestra ovalis opens. From the anterior part of this, a canal makes two and a half turns round a central pillar, and then, turning sharply on itself, makes the same number of turns down again, and ends at the fenestra rotunda. This is the osseous cochlea (Fig. 76, Cock.). The ascending and descending canals are separated from one another, partly by a bony plate, partly by a membranous partition—the basilar mem- brane. At the base, the bony lamella is broad, but at the apex its place is chiefly taken by the membrane, which measures at the apex more than ten ,^ times its width at the base. From the pos- terior and superior aspect of the vesti- bule a mechanism unconnected with hearing has been evolved. Three semicircular canals (Fig. 78), each with a swelling at one end, open into the vestibule. One runs in the horizontal plane, and has the swelling or ampulla anteriorly (Fig. 78, h.c). The other two run in vertical planes placed obliquely to the middle plane, as is indicated in Fig. 78. The anterior or superior canal (s.c.) has its ampulla in front, and the posterior (p.c.) has its ampulla behind. They join together, and enter the vestibule by a common orifice. In the perilymph of the bony labyrinth lies h.c. Fig. 78.—The relationship of the semi- circular canals to one another. h.c. Horizontal canal; i.e., su- perior canal; p.c, posterior canal.547 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM a complex membranous bag, the membranous labyrinth. In the vestibule this is divided into two little sacs—the utricle, related to the semicircular canals, and the saccule, related to the cochlea. They are joined together by a slender canal. From the saccule comes off a canal which runs into the cochlea upon the basilar membrane, form- ing a middle channel between the other two—the scala media or membranous cochlea. This ter- minates blindly at the apex. From the utricle a membranous canal extends into each of the bony semicircular canals, being provided with an ampulla, which nearly fills up the bony ampulla, while the canal portion is small, and occupies only a small part of the bony canal (Fig. 76, p. 545). In the membranous cochlea the lining cells form the organ of Corti (Fig. 79). This is set upon the basilar membrane, and consists from Fl8. 79.—TransverBe section through one turn of the cochlea to show the organ of Corti on the basilar membrane. S.M., Scala media; scala vestibuli; S.T., scala tympani. within, outwards, of—1st. A set of elongated supporting cells; 2nd. A row of columnar cells, with short, stiff, hair-like processes projecting from their free border; 3rd. The inner rods of Corti, each of which may be compared to an ulnar bone attached by its terminal end, and fitting on to the heads of the outer rods; ith. The outer rods of Corti, each resembling a swan's head and neck—the neck attached to the basilar membrane, and the back of the head fitting into the hollow surface of the inner rods; 5th. Several rows of outer hair cells, with some spindle-shaped cells among them; 6tk. The outer supporting cells; 7th. Lying over the inner and outer hair-cells is the membrana re- ticularis, resembling a net, through the meshes of which the hairs project; 8th. Arching over this organ is a homogeneous membrane—the membrana tectoria. The membranous labyrinth is attached to the inner wall of the bony labyrinth at certain points, through which fibres of the VIII. nerve to the terminal organs enter it. One set of fibres goes to the utricle and to the ampullae. A quite independent set, the true auditory nerve, goes to the saccule and the cochlea. The membranous labyrinth has an outer fibrous coat, and inside this a homogeneous layer which is markedly thickened where the nerves enter it. It is lined by flattened epi- thelium, which becomes columnar, and is covered with stiff hair-like processes over the thickenings at the entrance of the nerves. On the top of these hair-like processes lies a little mass of calcareous nodules imbedded in a mucus-like substance, the otoliths. In the fish and some lower animals the otoliths are large structures. The terminal neurons of both the vestibule and the cochlea end in dendrites between the hair cells, and the cells of these neurons is upon their course to the medulla. 5. Connection with the Central Nervous System. —The VIII. nerve is essentially double, con- sisting of a dorsal cochlear or auditory part, and a ventral labyrinthine or vestibular part. Cochlear Root (Fig. 80).—This is the true nerve of hearing. Its fibres, Coch.R., begin in dendrites between the hair cells of the organ of CB. N.vi. ^ Oc.M. Fia. 80.—Connections of cochlea with central nervous system. Coch.R., Cochlear root of eighth nerve ; N.Acc, tuberculum acusticum and nucleus accessorius sendins fibres to the cerebrum (CB.) and to the oculo-motor mechanism (iV.vi.); CEL., cerebellum. Corti, have a cell upon their course, and when they enter the medulla branch into two divisions, which end either in the tuberculum acusticum or the nucleus accessorius, N.Acc, where theyPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 548 form synapses. From the cells, axons pass (a) to the oculo-motor mechanism of the same side and the opposite side, iV.vi., and (b) up to the cere- brum, C£., of the same and of the opposite side. Vestibular Boot (Fig. 81).—The fibres of this root take origin in dendrites between the cells of the maculse in the ampullae of the semi- circular canals and of the saccule, and have their nerve cells upon their course, Ves.E. cB. 0 \ \ • Y I 1 1 N.vi. j CtLtS IN Meo. ^ 1 1 I* ttLLS Of ANT. HORN Y 1 ' 1 1 / i ^ I 1 0€.M. Fig. 81.—Connections of semicircular canals with central nervous system. Ves.JR., Vestibular root of eighth nerve sending fibres upwards to CB. (cerebrum) and CBL. (cerebellum), downwards to the centre in medulla oblongata (Med.), and to Deiters' nucleus (N.Deit.), from which fibres pass to the oculo-motor mechanism (N. vi.) and to the centres in the anterior horn of the spinal cord. As they enter the medulla they divide into two, forming an ascending and a descending branch. (1) The ascending branch sends fibres on to the cerebrum, CB., and to the superior vermis of the cerebellum, CBL. These fibres give off collaterals to the nucleus of Deiters, N.Deit., from the cells of which fibres pass, which divide, some running on the same side, some on the opposite side; one branch passing up to the oculo-motor mechanism, N.\\.., the other pass- ing down the spinal cord to send collaterals to the cells in the grey matter, (2) The descend- ing branch forms connections with the medullary nuclei as it passes down. 6. The Auditory Centre and the Physiology of Hearing.—The qualities of sound which can be distinguished by the sense of hearing are loud- ness—amplitude of vibration ; pitch —rate of vibration; and quality—the character of the sound given by the over-tones. The perception of this last is essentially a perception of pitch. Loudness.—It is easy to understand how the peripheral neurons in the internal ear are more powerfully stimulated by the greater variations in the degree of pressure which are produced by more powerful aerial waves, and how the greater stimulation of the receptive centre in the brain will be accompanied by a sensation of greater loudness. Pitch. — A study of the structure of the cochlea seems to show a mechanism well suited to afford a means of estimating the pitch of a note and the existence of over-tones. The fibres of the basilar membrane may be compared to the strings of a piano, each one of which, or each set of which, will be made to vibrate by a particular note. The power of distinguishing differences of pitch varies in different individuals. It is more acute for notes of a moderate rate of vibration, from 46 to 4000, than for very slow or very fast vibrations. The range of perception of pitch also varies greatly, some people hearing notes as low as 20 vibrations per second, and others hearing them up to 40,000 per second. The position of the auditory centre in the cortex cerebri is discussed on p. 569. Illusions may occur in connection with the auditory sense. Thus, while normally the mechanism of the middle ear is set in action by sound vibrations, it may be brought into play by contact of gross matter with the drum. Pathological conditions of the internal ear may also stimulate the centre, while stimulation of cortex in the auditory region, either direct or through other neural arcs, as in dreaming, may produce auditory sensations. D. Proprio-cbptive Mechanism of the Head Labyrinthine Sense.—Just as the reflex re- sponse of the limbs to external stimuli leads to a stimulation of the proprio-ceptive mechanism in the muscles and joints which plays an im- portant part in guiding the subsequent move- ment {see p. 528), so the reflex response to visual stimuli in the muscles of the head and neck brings into play a delicate proprio-ceptive mechanism developed from the internal ear which has an important action in guiding the movements of the body as a whole, and very specially in guiding the co-ordinated movements of the eye muscles. This is the labyrinthine mechanism, consisting of the utricles and the semicircular canals. The structure of this mechanism has been described on p. 546.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 549 The mode of action may be analysed by a study of the sensations which accompany its activity. That there is no special mechanism making lis aware of uniform movement is proved by the fact that we are not conscious of whirling through space with the earth's surface, and that in a smoothly running train we lose all sense of forward movement. It is only as the train starts or stops that we have a sensation of movement or retardation. The same thing has been demonstrated by strapping a man to a table rotating smoothly round a vertical axis and setting the table spinning. A sense of rotation is experienced as the table starts, but is lost when the movement becomes uniform. Stopping the table gives rise to a sensation of being rotated in the opposite direction. The semicircular canals are the mechanism which act in this way. They are arrang d in pairs in the two ears. The two horizontal canals are in a horizontal plane ; the superior canal of one side and the posterior canal of the other are in parallel planes oblique to the mesial plane of the body (Fig. 82, a). The horizontal canals may be considered as FIO. 82.—a. Arrangement of the semicircular canals on the two ' sides; b, bony and membranous canal and ampulla to illustrate their mode of action. forming the arc of a circle with an ampulla at each end. The superior canal of one side has its ampulla in front, while its twin—the posterior of the opposite side—has its ampulla behind, and they together form the arc of a circle with an ampulla at each end (Fig. 82, a). The membranous canals are very narrow, and occupy but a small part of the osseous canals. The membranous ampullte are large and almost fill the osseous ampullte (Fig. 82, b). If the head is moved in any plane, certain changes will be set up in the ampvillse towards which the head is moving, and converse changes in the ampullae at the other end of the arc of the circle. If, for example, the head is suddenly turned to the right, the inertia of the endolymph and perilymph tend to make them lag behind. Thus the endolymph in the ampulla of the left horizontal canal will tend to flow into the canal, but the canal is so small that it will merely accumulate in the ampulla, and thus a high pressure will be produced (Fig. 81, 6 + +). The perilymph will tend to lag behind, and a low pressure will result outside (Fig. 82, h -). The converse will take place in the opposite horizontal canal. When the movement is continued the pressures will be readjusted, and, on stopping the movement, the opposite conditions will be induced, and a sensation of moving in an opposite direction will be experienced. In forward movement, the two superior canals have the pressure of endolymph increased in their ampullae — in backward movement this occurs in the two posterior canals. In nodding to the right the superior and posterior canals of the right ear undergo this change. In all probability the utricle, with its otoliths mounted on the top of the hair cells, also plays a part in the labyrinthine mechanism. As the head is moved the pressure of the otolith will change from one part of the macula to another, and may thus give diiferent stimuli for different positions of the head. The importance of this labyrinthine mechanism in muscular co-ordination is shown by the effect of its destruction. This leads to inco-ordinate movements of the eyes, head, and limbs, and to loss of tone in the miiscles. When injury to the labyrinth is sudden, as when a " knock- out " blow is received on the chin, driving the condyles of the lower jaw against the petrous part of the temporal, the general loss of muscular tone may be so complete that the individual collapses. The muscles chiefly under the tonic influence of this mechanism are those of the neck and trunk, and the extensor and abductor muscles of the limbs of the same side. Just as the eye dominates the movements of the muscles of the body through the cerebrum (see p. 544), so the labyrinthine mechanism dominates the tonus of the muscles as a whole through the cerebellum (see p. 548). 5. The Connections between the Eecbiving AND Reacting Mechanisms 1. The Spinal Nerves The connections between the peripheral receiv- ing mechanisms and the central nervous system, the activity of which leads to the appropriate reaction of muscles, has been in part studied in connection with the various special senses. The main connecting channels between the peripheral receiving organs and the central nervous system on the one hand, and the central nervous system and the reacting struc- tures on the other, may now be considered more generally. These connections are seen in their most typical arrangement in the spinal nerves, a pair of which comes off, one on each side, from each level of the spinal cord, and passes out- wards between the vertebrae. General Arrangement.—These nerves may be classified as ingoing and outgoing, and they may be divided into those connected with the body wall and its appendages and those con- nected with the viscera.550 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM A posterior root, P.R., comes off from the postero-lateral aspect of the cord and has a swelling upon it, the ganglion of the posterior root. It joins an anterior root, A.R., coming from the antero-lateral margin. These form the spinal nerve which is distributed to the body wall. Lying in front of this is a swelling or ganglion, ^S'.^., joined to the nerve by two roots—a white ramus, W.R., and a grey ramus, G.R.; and from this a nerve extends towards the viscera, V.N. Before this nex-ve reaches its final distribution it passes through another ganglion. Roots of the Spinal Nerves.—The posterior root is the great ingoing channel to the spinal cord, and the anterior root is the great outgoing- channel. Section of a series of posterior roots leads to (a) loss of sensation in the structures from which the fibres come, and (6) to a loss of muscular co-ordination, as a result of cutting off the afferent impressions connected with the kinsesthetic sense (p. 528). As a result of this section, the parts of the fibres cut off from the cells of the ganglia on the posterior root die and degenerate {see p. 521). Therefore, if the root is cut inside the ganglion, the degeneration extends inwards and up the posterior columns of the cord; and if it is cut outside, the degeneration passes outwards to the periphery. Section of the anterior root causes par- alysis of the muscles and other structures supplied by the outgoing fibres, and the fibres die and degenerate. The nerve to the somatopleur or body wall, S.N., is composed of incoming and j-jq §3 , outgoing fibres. \st. Incoming fibres are meduUated and take origin in the various peripheral sense organs. As they pass through the ganglion on the posterior root each fibre is connected by a side branch with a nerve cell—the trophic centre of the neuron—and it then enters the spinal cord, and either passes to the postero-lateral column, or forms synapses in the cord {see p. 522). '2nd. Outgoing fibres are meduUated, and take origin from the large cells in the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord and pass on to be connected with muscle fibres by end plates or to gland cells by less definite synapses. The nerve to the viscera or splanchnopleur, V.N., and to the involuntary structures in the somatopleur, contains—\st. Incoming Fibres.— These take origin either in definite peripheral structures, such as Pacinian corpuscles, or in some less defined endings, and as meduUated fibres pass through the various ganglia, and have their cell stations in the ganglion on the posterior root. The nerve fibres coming from Pacinian bodies and from m^xscles, like the similar fibres in the somatic branch, are large and are connected with large cells in the spinal ganglion, and they become myelinated at the same time. A set of smaller fibres similar to those coming from the skin in the somatic branch are also found in the visceral branch, and they seem to be connected with smaller cells in the ganglion. 2nd. The Outgoing Fibres are characterised by their small size, take origin chiefly in a lateral column of cells, which is well developed in the dorsal region of the cord {see p. 553), and pass out as meduUated fibres by the anterior root. From this they pass by the white root to a sympathetic ganglion, whence they may proceed in one of two different ways (Fig. 83). {a) They may form synapses with cells, and fibres from these cells may pass— 1. Outwards with the splanchnic nerves ; or, 2. Back into the spinal nerve by the grey root, and so down the somatic nerve to blood- vessels, muscles of the hairs, sweat glands, etc. The ganglia from which fibres pass back into spinal nerve are known as lateral ganglia. {b) They may pass through these ganglia on gan:_ W.R with V.N. -Structure of a typical spinal nerve. P.R., Posterior root with lion; A.R., anterior root; S.I., ganglion of sympathetic chain; , its white ramus ; G.R., its grey ramus ; V.N., visceral nerve collateral ganglion; S.N., somatic nerve. to one more peripherally situated in^j which they form synapses and are continued onwards. These ganglia from which fibres do not pass back are called collateral ganglia. Before their first interruption they are termed pre-ganglionic fibres, after their interruption post-ganglionic. The various fibres after their interruption proceed as non-meduUated or grey fibres to their termination, where they join a network of anastomosing fibres with cells—a sort of terminal ganglion. Many drugs have a special action on the terminal ganglia ; e.g. apocodein paralyses them, while adrenalin—the extract of the medullary part of the suprarenals—stimu- lates certain of them. The interruption of fibres in ganglia, or their passage through these structures, has been^de- tei-mined by taking advantage of the fact that nicotine in 1 per cent solution when painted on a ganglion poisons the synapses but does not influence the fibres. Hence, when a ganglion is painted with nicotine, if stimulation of the fibres on its proximal side produces an effect.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 551 Head Thorax FlO. 84.—Distribution o£ the cutaneous nerves in the human subject. it is proved that the break is not in that gangUon. The arrangement of epicritic, protopathic, and deep fibres in the neuron and plexuses is con- sidered at p. 555. Distribution A. Somatic Fibres.—{a) Outgoing Fibres.— The course of these must be studied in the dissecting-room. (6) Ingoing Fibres.—The fibres passing in by each pair of nerves come from zones of skin encircling the body. These are, however, inter- rupted by the limbs. Each limb may be con- sidered to be an outgrowth at right angles to the trunk, composed of a pre-axial and post-axial part (Fig. 84). B. Splanchnic Fibres. — (a) The Outgoing Fibres may be divided into (Fig. 85)— A. The Thoracico - abdominal Fibres, which come out in the middle region of the spinal cord and pass through the lateral ganglia of the sympathetic chain— (1) Head and Neck.—These leave the spinal cord by the upper five dorsal nerves and pass upwards in the sympathetic cord of the neck to the superior cervical ganglion, where they have their cell stations. From these, fibres are distributed to the parts supplied. The chief functions of these fibres are—\st. Vaso-con- strictor to the vessels of the face and head; 2«c?. Pupilo-dilator (see p. 537); Zrd. Motor to the muscle of Miiller; ith. Secretory to the salivary glands, lachrymal gland, and sweat glands. The course of these fibres is of im- portance in medicine, since tumours in the upper part of the thorax may press upon them. (2) Thorax.—fibres to the thoracic organs also come off in the five upper dorsal nerves, have their cell stations in the stellate ganglion, and pass to the heart and lungs. (3) Abdomen. — These fibres come off in the lower six dorsal and upper three lumbar nerves. They course through the lateral ganglia and form synapses in the collateral ganglia of the abdomen —the solar plexus and the superior and inferior mesenteric ganglia. From these they are distributed to the abdominal organs, being vaso-constrictor to the vessels, in- hibitory to the muscles of the stomach and intestine, and pos- sibly secretory to the pancreas. 4. Pelvis.—The fibres for the pelvis leave the cord by the lower dorsal and upper four lumbar nerves, and have their cell stations in the inferior mesenteric ganglia, from which they run in the hypogastric nerves Abdomen Pelvis FlO. 85 —Scheme of distribution of splanchnic nerves.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 552 to the pelvic ganglia. They are vaso-constrictor, inhibitory to the colon, and motor to the bladder, uterus and vagina, and the retractor penis. (5) Arm.—These fibres, coming out by the fourth to the tenth dorsal nerves, have their synapses in the ganglia of the sympathetic chain, and passing back into the spinal nerves by the grey rami, course to the blood-vessels, hairs, and sweat glands of the limb. (6) Leg.—The fibres take origin from the eleventh dorsal to the third lumbar nerves, have their cell stations in the lateral ganglia, and pass to the leg in the same way as do the fibres to the arm. CORPORA quAeRiGtMiNA PONS MEDULLA. CORD. Fig. 86.—Mesial section through the brain and upper part of tions at which the sections figured in later diagrams have Medulla, Figs. 93 and 94 ; Pons, Fig. 96, p. 559; Corpora, Fig.! B. The Cranial and Sacral Fibres. — These pass out from the upper and lower ends of the cord, and they do not pass through the lateral ganglia but have their cell station in some of the collateral ganglia. (1) The third cranial nerve carries fibres which have their synapses in the ciliary ganglion, and pass on to the sphincter pupillte and ciliary muscle. (2) The seventh nerve carries fibres through the chorda tympani to cell stations in the sub- maxillary and sublingual ganglia. These are secretory to the submaxillary and sublingual glands. (3) The ninth nerve sends fibres to the parotid gland, which have their cell station in the otic ganglion. (4) The vagus sends inhibitory fibres to the heart, which form synapses in the cardiac plexus. It also sends motor fibres to the oesophagus and stomach, which, in some animals at least, have the cell stations in the ganglion of the trunk. (5) The nervi erigentes come off from the second and third sacral nerves, and pass to the hypogastric plexus near the bladder where the fibres have their cell stations. They are the vaso-dilator nerves to the pelvic organs, inhibit the retractor penis, and are motor to the bladder, colon, and rectum. {b) Ingoing Fibres.—The course of these from the viscera is not so clearly known ; but they appear to enter the main nerve largely by the white rami. In the nor- mal condition stimu- lation of their peri- pheral endings does not lead to modifica- tions of conscious- ness, and is therefore not accompanied by pain. But in ab- normal conditions painful sensations are produced. In some cases, abnor- mal stimulation of visceral nerves leads to painful sensations referred to the cu- taneous distribution of the spinal nerve with which they are connected. Thus, dis- ease of the heart is often accompanied by pain in the dis- tribution of the upper dorsal nerves in the left arm, with which the visceral fibres to the heart are associated. the spinal cord to show the posi- been made. Cord, p. 553, Fig. 87 ; )9, p. 562. 2. The Central Nervous System Spinal Cord and Brain.—The anatomy and histology of each part of the central nervous system should be mastered before its physiology is studied. An outline sufficient to make the description of the physiology intelligible is all that is given here. A. Spinal Cord Structure.—The spinal cord is a more or less cylindrical mass of nerve tissue which passes from the base of the brain down the vertebral canal. It terminates in a pointed extremity at the level of the 1st lumbar vertebra. There553 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM are two enlargements upon it, one in the cervical region, one in the lumbar region, and from these the nerves to the arms and legs come off. A fine central canal runs down the middle, and the two sides are almost completely separated from one another by an anterior and a posterior mesial fissure (Fig. 87). Each half is composed of a core of grey matter arranged in two processes or horns—the anterior and posterior horns (A. and P.)—which divide the white matter surrounding the grey into a posterior, a lateral, and an anterior column. In the dorsal region a lateral horn of grey matter projects into the lateral column, I.L. The grey matter on each side is joined to that of the opposite side by bands of grey matter; the anterior and posterior grey commissures, one in front of and one behind the central canal. The grey matter is composed very largely of cells and synapses of neurons supported by branching neuroglia cells. The cells of the grey matter are largest and most numerous in the anterior horn, where they constitute the cells from which the majority of nerve fibres come off. In the dorsal region a group of cells in the lateral horn, the intermedio-lateral cells, gives off visceral fibres, I.L. In the dorsal region also a set of cells lies on the mesial aspect of the posterior horn constituting the cells of Lockhart Clarke—L.C. The white substance is composed of medul- lated nerve fibres in which the neurilemmal sheath is absent. The fibres chiefly course up and down the cord, and some run in a horizontal direction:—1. The fibres of the spinal nerves; 2. Fibres passing from grey to white matter; 3. Fibres joining the two sides of the cord in front of the anterior grey commissure forming the white commissure. Functions.—The spinal cord is the great mechanism of reflex action, and the great channel of conduction between the brain and the peripheral structures. A. Reflex Functions.—If the brain of such an animal as a frog be destroyed, the animal lies prone on its belly and immovable for any length of time; but the legs tend to be drawn up alongside the body, and the muscles are in a state of slight tonic contraction very diff"erent from the flaccid condition found after destruc- tion of the cord. The study of the spinal reflexes (p. 524) has shown that the animal has the power of reflex movements with definite co- ordination of its muscles, but it has no power of balancing itself, and manifests no spon- taneous movements. These reflex functions of the cord in mammals have been very fully investigated by Sherrington in dogs and cats in which the cerebrum has been separated from the rest of the nervous system, and his results have been considered on p. 524. On sus- pending such animals in the normal hori- zontal position, with legs dependent, it is found that all four legs are in a state of tonic slight extension as they are in sup- porting the body. This he terms " decere- bration rigidity." It appears to be due to impulses passing down from the semicircular canal mechanism, which reinforce the spinal reflex arcs. That this is so is shown ;by the fact that section of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves removes the rigidity. Stimulation of definite areas of skin at once causes the animal to strike a special attitude (p. 524). Thus stimulation of the left fore paw produces the attitude of walking, which is assumed normally when that paw reaches the ground. Stimulation of the left pinna produces the attitude assumed if the animal were turning away from the stimulus (Fig. 95). The anatomical connection between the diiTerent levels of the cord involved in such reflexes has been demonstrated by Sherrington by keeping a dog in which the spinal cord is cut in the neck till all the down-going tracts below the point of section have completely degenerated so as to leave a clean slate, and then cutting the cord at a lower level when the proprio-spinal fibres connecting the diff'erent levels of the cord degenerate (see p. 557). They are chiefly situated in the lateral columns of the cord. In man the cutaneous reflexes connected with various groups of skeletal muscles are definitely associated with different levels of the cord. The reflex movement of the foot on tickling the sole is connected with the part of the cord from which the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd sacral nerves come off; the reflex of the cremaster muscle with the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd lumbar; that of the Fig. 87.—Cross section of the spinal cord throuali the second dorsal segment, to show disposition of grey and white matter. P., pos- terior liorn ; A., anterior liorn with large cells ; I.L., intermedio- lateral horn with small cells; L.C, Lockhart Clarke's column of cells; P.M. and P.L., postero-median and postero-lateral columns ; D.C., direct cerebellar tract; Asc. and Desc. Ant. Lat., ascending and descending antero-lateral or spino-ventral tracts ; B.B., basis bundles; CP?/., crossed pyramidal tract; O.Py., direct pyramidal tract. On opposite side, tracts wliich degenerate upwards are marked with horizontal lines ; tracts degenerating downwards with vertical lines. (After Bruce.)PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 554 abdominal muscles with the 8th to the 12th dorsal; of the epigastric muscles with the 4th to the 7th dorsal; and of the scapular muscles with the 5th cervical to the 12th dorsal. By taking advantage of these reflexes the condition Fig. 88.—The groups of cells in the anterior horn of grey matter at the level of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral nerves. (From Bruce.) of the reflex arcs in the cord at different levels may be investigated. Reflex actions in connection with various visceral muscles are also connected with the spinal cord. Many of these are complex reflexes involving inhibition of certain muscles and increased action of others, some visceral, some skeletal. The best marked of these are the reflex acts of micturition, defsecation, erection, and ejaculation. The lumbar enlargement is the part of the cord involved. The synapses in the cord are not only capable of acting reflexly to set up definite contractions in muscles, but they also exercise a constant tonic action upon them, due to the constant inflow of incoming impressions (p. 504). When this tonic action is interfered with by any condition which interferes with the integrity of the reflex arc, the effect of directly stimulating a muscle is diminished. This is very well seen in the contraction of the quadriceps extensor femoris which occurs when the ligamentum patellae is struck sharply, causing a kick at the knee-joint—the knee-jerk (Fig. 89). When the reflex arc in the lower lumbar region of the cord is interfered with, the knee-jerk is dimin- ished or is absent, and when the activity of the arc is increased, by the removal of the influence of the brain, the jerk is increased. That the jerk is probably not a true reflex is shown by the fact that the latent period is very much shorter than that of most reflex actions (Fig. 89). The reflex arc, however, is necessary for the tonus. This tonus is increased by tension of the muscles and also by fatigue of the nervous system, and this condition may lead to cramp. The degeneration of special groups of cells— the anterior horn of grey matter—which follows amputation of the leg at diff'erent levels seems to indicate that the various groups of cells have definite connections with individual muscles {see Fig. 88). B. Conducting Paths. — The study of the course of the ingoing and outgoing fibres in the cord has proved to be one of great difiiculty. It is possible in animals to divide the cord completely or to divide one half, or to divide any one of the white columns, and to observe any loss of muscular action which may ensue and to trace the course of degenerated fibres; but to determine what changes in the sensibility have resulted on animals, imable to give any expression to their sensations, is practically impossible. On the other hand, the clinical method of cai'efully studying the changes in sensibility during life and determining post-mortem the exact site of the lesion which has produced these symptoms, has generally proved somewhat un- satisfactory on account of the want of precision in the lesions produced by injury or disease of the cord. A. Ingoing Fibres.—In the cord there seems to be a sorting of fibres into those the stimula- tion of which can effect consciousness and give rise to sensations, and those which simply pro- duce reflex responses. Thus, those kinsesthetic fibres which give rise to the muscle and joint sense run up in the posterior columns and cross above the cord, while those which ai"e concerned with the unconscious adjustment of muscular Fig. 89.—The neuro-muscular mechanism concerned in the knee- jerk, and the time of the knee-jerk (A.J.) compared with the time of a reflex action {A.R.). action through the agency of the cerebellum are shunted off through the synapses in Clarke's column to the direct cerebellar tract of the same side and the spino-ventral cerebellar^tract of the opposite side. In all probability fibres connected with the tactile sense are similarly sorted out, and possibly even those connected with the conduction of thermal and of nocuous stimuli. As regards the course of the ingoing fibres,PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 555 the most vahiable advance has been made by the study of the results of lesions of the cord in the light of the observations of Head and his co-workers on the course of these fibres in the jDeripheral nerves {see p. 531). While section of a cutaneous nerve destroys epicritic and protopathic sensibility, and leaves deep sensibility intact, lesions of the spinal cord are apt to interrupt the passage of the impulses concerned with different kinds of sensation. Thus, section of a cutaneous nerve abolishes any sensation of pain from the surface of the skin, but leaves the possibility of the sensation of pain being produced by severe pressure on deep structures, while a lesion of the cord is apt to interrupt the passage of all stimuli producing pain, whether coming by epicritic, protopathic, or deep fibres. A redis- tribution has taken place—all the various fibres carrying the impulses derived from nocuous stimulation have got shunted into one tract carrying them up to the brain. Similarly, the impulses connected with thermal sen- sation coming by epicritic and by pro- topathic fibres, and those connected with the sense of touch and pressure, each get shunted into specific tracts (Figs. 90 and 91). This must mean that these im- pulses get sorted out by passing through synapses in the cord, and the position of these synapses and the course of the axons running from them to the brain have been deduced partly from histological investigation of the fibres of the posterior roots, partly by careful study of the symp- toms and of the degenerations which follow definite lesions of the cord. By the developmental method, by the different characters of the fibres, and by the degenerative changes, a posterior root has been divided into four main bundles : — 1. A set of large fibres passing for- ward to form synapses with Fia. 90.- the cells of the anterior horn at the same and other levels of the cord. 2. A second passing up the posterior columns of the same side, some running right on to the top of the cord, but many entering the grey matter as they course upwards. 3. A thii-d set forming synapses with the cells of Lockhart Clarke's column. 4. A fourth ending at once in synapses with the cells of the posterior horn, or run- ning for a short distance up the pos- terior column before forming synapses. 1. The first set of fibres are those concerned in ordinary simple reflex action (Fig. 91, 4). 2. The second set make up the posterior columns. When interrupted, the result is a loss of the kinsesthetic sense and a loss of the tactile sense for a short distance below the lesion, but not of the rest of the tactile sense or of the thermal sense or of pain. They form synapses in the nuclei of the posterior columns in the medulla in which they terminate, and, from these synapses, fibres cross the middle line to run upwards to the brain in the fillet (see p. 557) (Fig. 91, 1 and A). 3. From the cells of Lockhart Clarke, with which the third set of fibres forms synapses—(1) H/NA£STHBTtC TACTIU. THERMAL. MED J PAIN- SPINAL NERVE- Of EPICRITIC PR070PATHIC AND' /AI60ING mSUE fIBRES SPINAL CORD To show redistribution of impulses in the cord and the genera course of impulses of different kinds. axons sweep outwards to take up a position on the postero-lateral margin of the cord and to constitute the direct cerebellar tract which runs up to the cerebellum (Fig. 91, 2 and B) ; (2) other axons cross the anterior white commissure to the opposite side of the cord and come to lie on the lateral margin just in front of the direct cerebellar tract. They may be termed the ventro-spinal cerebellar tract, and they too pass to the cerebellum, but by a different route from those of the direct tract {see p. 558) (Fig. 91, 3 and C). 4. The fourth set of fibres forms synapses with the cells in the posterior horn. From these,556 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM axons cross the anterior white commissure to the opposite side of the cord, and have been traced upwards to the posterior part of the thalamus opticus. They may thus be called the spino-thalamic tract. They seem to run in two groups:—(1) Those concerned with the sensa- tions of pain, of heat and of cold cross near their point of entry and take up a position in close association with those of the ascending antero- lateral cerebellar tract (Fig. 91, D). (2) Those concerned with the tactile sense, whether of light touch or of pressure, run for a short distance up the posterior columns, then form synapses. The fibres from these cross at a higher level than the last, and when they have f 10. 91.—To show redistribution of impulses in the spinal cord. 1 to 5, Incoming fibres of posterior root; ^, tract of kinsesthetic sense ; B, tract of unconscious impulses for muscular co-ordination and tone ; C, same as B, but on opposite side; D, tract of impulses of pain, heat, and cold ; E, tract of impulses of touch and pressure. (Page May.) crossed take up a position on the anterior margin of the cord (Fig 91, £J). As regards the side of the cord on which these fibres lie as they course upwards to the brain, it has been demonstrated, by section of one-half of the cord, that sensations of pain, temperature, and to a less extent of touch, are lost on the opposite side below the point of section, and that the kinsesthetic sense and partly the tactile sense are lost on the same side. These symptoms are explained by Fig. 90. The position of the fibres in the diff'erent columns of the cord has been determined by studying the results of section of the different columns and by following out the degenerations which result. The degeneration method, or Wallerian method, is based upon the fact, that nerve fibres separated from their cell die and degenerate {see p. 521). These degenerations may be demonstrated when recent by Marchi's method of staining, which depends upon the fact that, while the white sheath of normal fibres is not stained black when the tissue is placed in a solution of chrome salt with osmic acid, it is so stained when it begins to degenerate (p. 521). When, at a later period, the white sheaths have entirely disappeared, the degeneration is best demonstrated by Weigert's method of staining the white sheaths of normal fibres with hsema- toxylin, which leaves the degenerated tracts of fibres unstained. The fibres in the central nervous system do not re- generate, pro- bably because they are devoid of the neurilemmal sheath. B. 0 ut g oiiKj Fibres. — The course of these fibres is much more easily deter- mined than that of the ingoing fibres. The eff'ects of experimental or clinical lesions of the cord upon the muscular move- ments, the down- ward degenera- tion which follows such lesions, and lastly the fact that, generally speaking, these outgoing fibres get their medul- lary sheath at a later date than the ingoing fibres, all enable the position of the outgoing tracts to be defined. They may be grouped in four sets— 1. A vei-y strong band of fibres lying in the posterior part of the lateral column, just inside the direct cerebellar tract, and becoming smaller as the lower part of the cord is reached. This is the crossed pyramidal tract (Fig. 87, C.Py.), which comes from the cells of the cortex cerebri of the opposite side, and gives oft' collateral branches to the cells in the anterior horn of the spinal cord (Fig. 41, D, p. 522). 2. Certain fibres from the cortex cerebri do not cross, but run down, some in the crossed pyramidal tract, some in the direct pyramidal tract (Fig. 87, O.Py.), which runs along the margin of the anterior fissure, and extends - DPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUKO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 557 downwards only into the dorsal region, fibres decussate in the cord. These c.gen Fig. 92.—View of the medulla oblongata, corpora quadrigemina, and the optic thalami from above, c.l.a.. Posterior columns of cord; VIII., XII., X., indicate the roots of these cranial nerves; p.c.i., the restiform body; p.c.m., the middle peduncle of the cerebellum; p.c.s., the superior peduncle of the cerebellum; t.g., the anterior and posterior corpora quadrigemina ; c.o., the optic thalamus with pulvinar (pulv.) and external and internal geniculate bodies behind it; e.p., the pineal body. The separation of the posterior columns of the cord and the opening out of the floor of the fourth ventricle is shown. (Van Gehuchten.) 3. A set of fibres just inside the antero- lateral ascending tract, which may be called the antero-lateral descending tract (Fig. 87, Desc. Ant. Lat.). This comes from Deiters' nucleus {see infra), and as it passes down, gives off fibres to the cells in the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord. Deiters' nucleus receives fibres from the cerebellum, and the antero- lateral descending tract thus carries down impulses from that organ. 4. From the red nucleus (p. 560) some fibres pass down the cord as the pre- pyramidal tract just in front of the crossed pyramidal tract. C. Fibres not Degenerating beyond the Cord. — Proprio-spinal Fibres. — Round the grey matter, a band of fibres—the basis bundles (Fig. 87, B.B.)—and out- side of these, scattered through the white matter chiefly of the lateral columns, other fibres degenerate in the cord and seem to be commissural between different levels of the grey matter {see p. 553). Other tracts of fibres have been described, such as Lissauer's tract and the septo-marginal tract, but their relations have not been satis- factorily investigated. B. The Medulla Oblongata 1. Structure The medulla oblongata may be regarded as the upper end of the spinal cord, which it con- nects with the brain (Fig. 92). The cord ex- pands and the posterior median fissure is opened out, so that the central canal comes to the sur- face, and expands into a lozenge-shaped area— the Jloor of the fourth ventricle. The lateral columns of the cord pass outwards to the cere- bellum to form part of its inferior peduncles —the restiform bodies. Between the lateral and the anterior columns an almond-shaped swelling, the olive, appears (Fig. 94, 0.). Above this the medulla is encircled by a mass of transverse fibres—the middle peduncles of the cerebellum, or the jooms Varolii {¥ig. 96, P.). The floor of the fourth ventricle is constricted above by the approximation of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (Fig. 92, p.c.s.) to again become a canal. The grey matter of the cord gets broken up into separate masses, of which the most im- portant are— 1. The nuclei of the posterior columns—the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus (Fig. 93, N.G. and N.G.)—masses of cells and synapses in which the fibres of the posterior columns end, and from which the upgoing fibres of the fillet start. 2. The inferior olivary nucleus (Fig. 94, 0.), which lies in the olive, and which is connected by bands of fibres with the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum (Fig. 96, Dent.). 3. The nucleus of Deiters (Fig. 96, Deit.), Fig. 93. Cross section through medulla oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids. P.M. and P.L., postero-median and postero-lateral tracts of the cord; N.G. and N.C., nucleus gracilis and cuneatus, giving off the fillet fibres crossing at F.; I'., ascending root of fifth nerve ; G., nucleus of glossopharyngeal nerve ; A.H., anterior horn of spinal cord ; P., the anterior pyramids ; D.C., direct cerebellar tract; A. and D. Ant.L., ascending and descending antero-lateral tracts. (After Bruce.) lying higher up in the pons Varolii, and con- nected with fibres from the cerebellum and from the semicircular canals {see Fig. 81).558 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 4. The nuclei of the cranial nerves, masses of cells from which the nerves take origin (Fig. 95). 2. Conducting Paths A. Ingoing.—1. The posterior columns of the spinal cord terminate in two masses of grey matter on each side, the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus. From these, fibres pass for- wards {i.e. towards the anterior aspect of the yjjl AccN Fig. 94.—Cross section oi medulla through the olive. The central canal has opened out to form the floor of the fourth ventricle, ith V., the lateral columns are passing out to form the interior peduncles of the cerebellum ; F., fillet; 0., inferior olivary nucleus; P., anterior pyramids ; Rest., fibres of restiform body; V., ascending root of fifth nerve ; VIII. Acc.N., accessory nucleus of the eighth nerve. (After Bruce.) ficial and deep transverse fibres of the pons (Fig. 96, P.), come to lie in the anterior pyra- mids of the medulla (Fig. 93, P.). At the lower end of the medulla most of these fibres cross (p. 556) to the lateral column of the cord ; some, however, run down the direct and crossed pyra- midal tracts of the same side. 2. The fibres of the descending antero-lateral tract, coming originally from the deep nuclei of the cerebellum, take origin, in part at least, in a mass of nerve cells (Deiters' nucleus), which lies in the dorsal and lateral part of the pons Varolii (Fig. 96, Beit.). C. Commissural Fibres. — 1. The basis bundles of the cord form in the medulla a strong band of fibres connecting the grey matter at different levels, the posterior longitudinal fasci- culus. 2. A set of fibres runs from each olivary body across the middle line to the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum of the opposite side. medulla) and cross the middle line forming the decussation of the fillet (Fig. 93, F.). The crossed fibres (Fig. 94, F.) then pass up in a vertical series on each side of the middle line until the pons Varolii is reached, when they 96, F.) Above 99, F.) pons spread out horizontally like a fan (Fig dorsally to the deep transverse fibres, the pons they divide into two sets (Fig. —a lateral fillet, which ends in the anterior corpora quadrigemina, and a mesial fillet, which passes on to the optic thalamus, and there ends by form- ing synapses. 2. The spino-thalmic tract passes up through the medulla, and with the mesial fillet ends in the thalamus. 3. The direct cerebellar tract passes up into the restiform body, and so on to the supei'ior vermis of the cerebel- lum (p. 559). Its fibres form synapses round cells chiefly on the opposite side. 4. The ventro-spinal cerebellar tract passes up beside the last, but it leaves it in the restiform body and courses forward, to arch back into the cerebellum round the superior cerebellar peduncle and to form synapses with the cells of the superior vermis (Fig. 96, p. 559). B. Outgoing.—1. The fibres from the cerebral cortex, which form in the cord the crossed and direct pyramidal tracts, pass down in the middle part of the crusta (Fig. 99, P.) of the crura cerebri, and, after coursing between the super- 3. Cranial Nerves {The physiology of these should be studied while dissecting them.) The nerves springing from and entering the medulla do not come off in the same regular fashion as do the spinal nerves, although they, like the spinal nerves, must be considered as forming part of the spinal arcs. The outgoing fibres of each spring from a more or less definite mass of cells. The ingoing fibres generally form synapses with Fig. 95.—The nuclei and roots of the cranial nerves. (After Edinger.) cells arranged in definite groups. In this way the so-called nuclei of the cranial nerves are formed. The position of these is indicated in Fig. 95. In the cranial nerves no sharp differ- entiation into anterior and posterior roots can be made out; nevertheless they contain the same component elements as the spinal nerves, the fibres running either together or separately. Ingoing Fibres. — Somatic and splanchnic fibres (p. 550) enter the medulla and have their cell stations in ganglia upon the nerves.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUKO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 559 Outgoing Fibres. — Somatic and splanchnic fibres pass out, the latter being characterised by their small size, and by forming synapses before their final distribution. The XII. (Hypoglossus) is purely an anterior root nerve, and is motor to the muscles of the tongue. The X. (Vagus), and the XL (Spinal Acces- sory) are practically one nerve, consisting partly of posterior and partly of anterior root fibres. The vagus is the great ingoing nerve from the abdomen, thorax, larynx, and gullet, while, by outgoing fibres, passing through it or through the accessorius, it is augmentor for the muscles of the bronchi and alimentary canal, inhibitory to the heart, dilator to blood-vessels of the thorax and abdomen, and motor to the muscles of the larynx and to the levator palati. The accessorius is also motor to the sterno-cleido mastoid and trapezius. The IX. (Glossopharyngeus) is essentially a posterior root, and is the ingoing nerve for the back of the mouth, the Eustachian tube, and tympanic cavity. It transmits outgoing fibres which are motor to the stylo-pharyngeus and middle constrictor of the pharynx. The VII. (Facial) is almost purely an an- terior root, transmitting the motor fibres to the muscles of expression, and secretory fibres to the submaxillary and sublingual glands and the glands of the mouth. It, however, carries ingoing fibres from the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. The V. (Trigeminal) is chiefly a posterior root, but it has a distinct anterior or motor root which joins it, and carries the motor fibres to the muscles of mastication. It is the great ingoing nerve for all the face. The VI. (Abducens) supplies the external rectus of the eye. The IV. (Trochlearis) supplies the superior oblique. The III. (Oculo-motorius) supplies all the muscles of the eye except those sup- plied by VI. and IV. The anterior part of the nucleus consists of small cells, and gives off fibres to the sphincter pupilte and ciliary muscles. The fibres coming from the nuclei of these cranial nerves do not always pass out in the nerve itself. Thus, fibres from the nucleus of the III. to the orbicularis oculi pass out in the VII., while fibres for the posterior belly of the digastric which pass out in the VII. probably come from the nucleus of the XII. 4. Reflexes of the Medulla The extensive series of synapses in the medulla form arrangements by which various combined and co-ordinated movements are controlled. Thus, part of the nucleus of the vagus governs the movements of respiration, while other parts preside over the slowing mechanism of the heart. To these various reflex arrangements the name of centres has been given, and their mode of action will be considered when dealing with the mechanism of circulation, respiration, and digestion. C. Region op Pons Varolii This region consists of the upper part of the medulla embraced by the transverse fibres of the middle peduncles of the cerebellum (Fig. 96). Outgoing Fibres.—1. The fibres to the face muscles cross the middle line to become asso- ciated with the various nuclei of the cranial nerves. For this reason a tumour in one side of the pons may cause paralysis of the face I muscles on one side and of the muscles of the Fig. 95.—Cross section through region of pons, cerebellum, and fourth ventricle. S.V., Superior vermis; R.N., roof nucleus; Dent., dentate nucleus; Rest., restiform body; S.P., superior peduncle of cerebellum; Deit., Deiters' nucleus; VI., nucleus of the sixth nerve; F., lillet; S.O., superior olive; D.T. and S. T., deep and superficial transverse fibres ; P., pyramidal fibres. (After Bruce.) rest of the body on the opposite side. 2. Fibres to the limbs and trunk run down between the deep and superficial transverse fibres (Fig. 96,P.). Ingoing Fibres.—The fillet fibres in the pons, instead of running up on each side of the middle line, spread out into a horizontal arrangement above the crossed fibres (Fig. 96, F.). The nucleus of Deiters and the nuclei of various cranial nerves lie in this region of the brain. The connections of the transverse fibres are considered on p. 558. D. Cerebellum Structure. — The cerebellum (Fig. 86) or lesser brain lies above the fourth ventricle, and is joined to the cerebro-spinal axis by threePHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 560 peduncles on each side (Figs. 92 and 98). It consists of a central lobe, the upper part of Fig. 97.—Diagram of the arrangement of fibres and cells in the cortex of the cerebellum. G.L., Molecular layer ; N.L., nuclear layer ; P., Purkinje's cells sending out axons to the deeper ganglia. (After Eamon y Cajal.) which is the superior vermis (Fig. 96, S. v.), and two lateral lobes, each with a secondary small lobe, the flocculus. Its surface is raised into long ridge-like folds running in the horizontal plane, and is covered over with grey matter, the cortex. In the substance of the white matter forming the centre of the organ are several masses of grey matter on each side, the most important of which are— 1, the roof nucleus; and 2, the dentate nucleus (Fig. 96, R.N. and Dent.). The cortex may be divided into an outer somewhat homogeneous layer (the molecular layer, Fig. 97, G.L.) and an inner layer studded with cells (the nuclear layer, N.L.). Between these is a layer of large cells—the cells of Purkinje, P. By Golgi's method, the arrangement of fibres and cells in the cerebellar cortex has been shown to be as follows: — Fibres coming into the cortex from the white matter end either in synapses round cells in the nuclear layer, or proceed at once to the outer layer (Fig. 97). From the cells in the nuclear layer, processes pass to the outer layer and there form synapses with other cells. From these, processes pass to the cells of Purkinje, round which they arborise, and from Purkinje's cells the outgoing fibres of the cerebellum pass into the white matter, and so to the deeper ganglia, and to Deiters' nuclei (Fig. 96). Connections.—The cerebellum is con- nected (Fig. 98) :— i. With the Spinal Cord. a. Incoming Fibres.—1. The direct cerebellar tract (p. 556) passes up in the restiform body to end chiefly in the superior vermis. 2. The ascending antero-lateral tract (p. 557) passes to the cerebellum in the superior peduncle and ends in the superior vermis. 3. Fibres from the nuclei of the posterior columns of the same side (Fig. 93, p. 557) pass in the restiform body to the cerebellum. 4. Fibres from the vesti- bular root of the eighth nerve also pass to the cerebellum (Fig. 81, p. 548). b. Commissural Fibres. — Strong bands of fibres connect the inferior olive of one side with the dentate nucleus of the other. c. Outgoing Fibres.—Fibres pass from the superior vermis to the deep nuclei, and, from these, fibres run to Deiters' nuclei (Fig. 96), from which fibres pass down in the descending antero-lateral tract of the cord. ii. With the Cerebrum.—1. The fibres of the middle peduncles cross in the middle line embracing the medulla, and forming the pons Varolii, and become associated with cells from which fibres pass up in the lateral parts of the crura cerebri to the cerebral cortex (Fig. 99, CC, CC, p. 562). 2. The fibres of the superior Fig.98 —Connections of the cerebellum with the cerebro-spinal axis. (For explanation, see text.) peduncle, coming chiefly from the dentate nucleus and superior vermis, cross the middle line and end partly in the red nucleus of the561 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM opposite side and partly in the thalamus opticus (Fig. 99, S.C.F.). The red nucleus fibres seem to pass upwards to the cerebrum and down- wards into the pre-pyramidal tract of the spinal cord. How far the former are upward con- ducting and how far downward is not definitely known. The cerebellum thus constitutes the central part of one of the great nervous arcs, the in- going fibres terminating in the cortex which sends fibres to the basal ganglia, which in turn send out the outgoing fibres. Functions. — Removal of the cerebellum deprives the animal, for a time at least, of the power of balancing itself. This may be easily demonstrated in the pigeon (Fig. 105, p. 564). But in some cases, when slowly progressing disease has destroyed the organ, no loss of equilibration has appeared, and in other cases the cerebellum has been congenitally almost absent, and yet the individual has not shown any sign of want of power of maintaining his balance. Evidently, therefore, some other part of the brain can compensate for its absence. The manner in which the cerebellum acts has been chiefly elucidated by removing parts of the organ and keeping the animals under observation for prolonged periods. If one side of the cerebellum be removed the first symptoms are (1) a tonic contraction of the muscles of the limbs of the same side by which the fore limbs may be powerfully extended, and an arching of the body with the convexity towards the side of the lesion, while the animal may be driven round its long axis to the opposite side. (2) These irritative symptoms soon pass ofi^, and the animal then manifests inadequacy or weak- ness in the limbs of the affected side, so that it droops to that side, and, if a quadruped, may circle to that side. (3) After some weeks these symptoms disappear, and the loss of one side of the cerebellum is apparently completely compensated for. When in the dog compensation has been established, destruction of the cerebral cortex of the opposite side leads to a reappearance of the muscular inadequacy. Electrical stimulation of the cerebellum has yielded results somewhat difficult of interpreta- tion, but the most recent investigations seem to show that stimulation of the cortex with currents strong enough to produce movements when applied to the discharging part of the cerebral cortex {see p. 571) do not produce manifest effects, but that comparatively weak currents applied to the basal ganglia do produce movements, the most manifest of which are the conjugate movements of the eyes, and the eyes and head to the side stimulated. It has been further found that powerful stimulation may also cause flexion of the elbow of the same side and extension of the opposite VOL. VII elbow with extension of the trunk and lower limbs. This may be associated wit'n the main- tenance of the body in the erect position and the alternate movements of the limbs in the act of progression. Taking into consideration the fact that lesions of the posterior nerve roots cause loss of muscular co-ordination, while destriiction of the ascending cerebellar tracts produces decrease of muscular tone on the same side, it may be concluded that both the kinaesthetic mechanism, which plays so important a part in maintaining the balance of the body, and the labyrinthine mechanism, have an important central station in the cerebellum. It would thus appear that the cerebellum is to be regarded as a tiiechanism suj:)plenientary to the great cerehro-sjnnal mechanism, and that it has for its purpose more especially the muscular co-ordination and adjustment required in main- taining the balance. This it may do in one or both of two ways— 1. By receiving impulses from without, and sending impulses downwards to act upon the spinal mechanism. 2. By receiving impulses, and sending im- pulses iipwards to the cerebrum to modify its action. Channels for such impulses exist (1) in the fibres of the pons which cross the middle line to connect with cells from which fibres pass upwards to the occipital and frontal lobes of the cerebrum (Fig. 41, p. 522) and (2) in the superior peduncles. To maintain the constant muscular adjust- ments involved in balancing the body an arrangement whereby any disturbance of the equilibrium can produce an appropriate reaction is required. The ingoing impulses which are more espe- cially of service in this way are derived from (1) the kincBsthetic mechanism {see p. 555); (2) the tactile mechanism from the soles of the feet; (3) the eye; and (4) the labyrinthine mechanism (p. 548). When the information as to our relationship with our surroundings derived from these various sources is not concordant—e.g. when through the semicircular canals we have a sensation of movement, and through the eyes an apparent absence of movement—balancing becomes difficult, and a feeling of giddiness results. This may be readily demonstrated by setting a poker vertically on the floor, holding it in the hand, placing the forehead on the top, walking rapidly three times round it, then standing up and trying to walk out of the room. The sudden stoppage of the rotatory movement causes a disturbance in the semicircular canals giving a sense of rotation in the opposite direction, while the eyes tell us that no rotation is taking place. The feeling of giddiness is, however, not the cause of the loss of balancing, but a mere accompaniment. 36562 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM E. The Crura Cerebri and Corpora QUADRIGEMINA Above the pons Varolii, the two halves of the medulla diverge from one another and form the Fig. 99.—Cross section through anterior corpora quadrigemina and cerebral peduncles. .4.5'., aqueductof Sylvius; ///., nucleus of third nerve ; S.C.P., superior cerebellar peduncles; P., mesial fillet; Fi, lateral fillet; P., pyramidal tract; CO., cerebello- cerebral fibres. (After Bruce.) peduncles of the cerebrum (Fig. 99, CO., P.), while posteriorly the two superior peduncles of the cerebellum come together, S.C.F. Above these, two swellings develop on each side—the anterior and posterior corpora quadrigemina (Fig. 92, p. 557). The crusta, or anterior parts of each peduncle of the cerebrum, is composed, in its central part, of the pyramidal fibres passing down from the cerebrum to the spinal cord, P., and, on each side, of the cerebello-cerebral fibres passing up- wards from the pons, CC. The posterior part, or tegmentum, contains—\st. The fillet fibres going partly to the corpora quadrigemina, partly on- wards to the thalamus opticus, F. ; 2nd. The nuclei of the 3rd and 4th cranial nerves; Zrd. The fibres of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum which cross the middle line, S.C.P.; and 4:th. The red nuclei in which most of these fibres end. The functions of this segment of the brain are chiefly conducting, but the anterior corpora quadrigemina form the shunting station between the incoming fibres of the optic tract and the oculo-motor mechanism (see p. 513). F. The Cerebrum Structure.—Each crus or peduncle terminates in its half of the cerebrum (Fig. 86, p. 552). As the fibres pass from peduncle to cerebrum and vice versd they come into relationship with three masses of grey matter lying in the midst of the cerebrum. These are the thalamus ox'ticus, into which the ingoing fibres enter; the lenti- cular micleus, between which and the thalamus the outgoing fibres run; and the caudate nucleus, the main part of which lies in front of the other two (Fig. 100). The fibres, above these nuclei, spread out to form the cotvna radiata and enter a crust of grey matter, the cortex cerebri, which covers over the cerebrum, and which in the higher animals is raised into a number of folds or convolutions marked off from one another by fissures and sulci. The more important of these are shown in Fig. 103. In the lower vertebrata the diff'erentiation of the cortex from the basal ganglia is incomplete, and it is only in the higher mammals, monkeys and man, that the cortex reaches its full physio- logical importance. The structure of the cortex cerebri as regards the arrangement of cells and fibres is some- what complex, and varies greatly at different parts; but the general type is as follows {see Fig. 104) :— A. Cells (Fig. 104, ^).—1. Plexiform layer. At the surface of the cortex is a thin layer of small irregular cells. 2. Layer of small pyramidal cells. 3. Layer of medium pyramidal cells. 4. External layer of large pyramidal cells. Some writers class layers 2, 3, and 4 as one. Fig. 100. — Diagrammatic horizontal section through base of cerebral hemisphere, showing (1) the outgoing fibres for the leg, arm, and face springing from the cortex of the Rolandic areas, passing through the internal capsule between the thalamus and the lenticular nucleus. The face fibres cross in the pons, the leg and arm fibres in the medulla. (2) The incoming fibres (fillet, eye) form their stations in the thalamus, and then pass on to the cortex. 5. Layers of stellate cells. This is a thin but well-defined layer of minute polymorphic cells lying rather more than half-way down the thick- ness of the cortex.PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 563 6. Internal layers of large pyramidal cells. 7. Layer of spindle-shaped cells. B. Fibres.—The relationship of the medul- FlG. 101.—Diagram oi the arrangement of cells in a typical part of the cerebral cortex. (After Ramon y Cajal.) lated fibres to these layers is shown in Fig. 104, B). 1. On the surface is a fibreless layer. 2. Under this is a thin layer of more or less horizontal fibres, the zonal layer. 3. Under this is a thicker irregular layer of fibres, the supra-radiary layer. 4. Next comes a band of fibres often so well developed as to make a white streak in the grey Fig. 102.—Diagram of collateral connections of different parts of the cerebral cortex, a, &, c, pyramidal cells of the cortex, all connected by collateral branches with other parts of the cortex in the same and in the opposite hemisphere, a give off the pyramidal fibres to the cord. (After Ramon y Cajal.) matter. This is the line of Baillarger. In the regions of the calcarine fissure when it is speci- ally marked it is known as the layer of Gennari. 5. Radiary zone. A thick layer of white fibres chiefly passing to and from the subjacent white substance. It should be remembered that the layer of stellate cells lie just outside Baillarger's layer of fibres. Fig. 101 shows the way in which the den- drites of these cells form a dense plexus at the surface, and the way in which incoming fibres (1) become associated with them. This arrangement is considerably modified in certain regions of the cortex, the large pyramidal cells be- ing best developed in those parts from which the great mass of fibres pass down to the spinal cord, and being- known as the cells of Betz. From the various fibres, collaterals come off which connect different parts of the cortex of the same side, and which also connect the cortex of one side with that of the other, and with the basal ganglia (Fig. 102). Physiology. — 1. General Considerations. — The func- tions of the cerebrum may be best understood by first contrasting the condition of animals with, and of animals without, this part of the brain. (1) In the frog the cerebral lobes may easily be removed. The animal sits in its characteristic attitude. When touched it jumps, when thrown into water it swims. It is a perfect reflex machine. SULCUS CENTRALI PAR. OC. Fig. 103.—A shows the chief convolutions on the outer aspect (front to right), and B on the inner aspect (front to left) of a cerebral hemisphere. with the power of balancing itself unimpaired. But it differs from a normal frog in moving only when directly stimulated, and in showing no signs of hunger or of thirst. A worm564 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM crawling in front of it does not cause the characteristic series of movements for its capture which are seen in a normal frog. Fig. 104.—^, Section of cerebral cortex in the pre-Eolandic lobe—a motor area ; on the left, under a low power to show the distribution of the cells; on the right, a few of the cells from each zone more highly magnified. (For description of zones, see text.) B, section through cerebral cortex in the region of the calcarine fissure (visual area), stained to show the arrangement of the fibres. (For descrip- tion of zones, see text.) (Campbell.) (2) In the pigeon (Fig. 105, B), removal of the cerebral hemispheres reduces the animal to the condition of a somnolent reflex machine. The bird sits on its perch, generally with its head turned back, as if sleep- ing. If a sudden noise is made, if light is flashed in its eye, or if it is touched, it flies off' its perch and lights somewhere else. Clapping the hands and letting peas fall on the floor both produce a start, but the bird makes no endeavour to secure the peas, as it would do in the normal state. (3) In the dog, by a succession of operations, Goltz removed the greater part of the cerebral cortex without causing paralysis of the muscles. The animal became dull and listless, and did not take food unless it was given to it. It showed no sign of recog- nising persons or other dogs, and did not respond in the usual way when petted or spoken to. But it snapped when pinched, shut its eyes and turned its head away from a bright light, and shook its ears at a loud sound. It did not sit still, but walked constantly to and fro when awake. It slept very heavily. In fact, all the responses of the animal might be classed as reflex responses to immediate excitation. (4) In monkeys, removal of the cerebral cortex leads to such loss of the so-called voluntary movements that all other symptoms are masked. After section through the crura cerebri, so as to remove the influence of the cerebrum, a condition of in- creased tonic contraction of the muscles occurs known as decerebration rigidity. This appears to be due to the un- controlled action of the kinesthetic and labyrinthine mechanisms acting through the cerebellum. It is often well seen in old cases of apoplexy where a haemorrhage has cut the fibres coming down from the cerebrum. By destroying the cerebrum, the animal is deprived of a most import- ant mechanism for the co-ordination of incoming impressions from the peri- pherally-placed receptors with the combinations of muscular movements by which appropriate reactions are brought about. With the cerebrum intact this co-ordination is far more complete. The reactions are, in part at least, determined by— (1) The previous training and edu- cation of the brain. For, just as in the spinal cord channels of action are formed, so in the cerebrum, if a given reaction once follows a given stimulus, it will tend to follow it again, (a) This training is in part hereditary. Each individual of a race is born with well-established lines of action in Fie. 105.—4, Pigeon with the cerebellum destroyed to show struggle to mani- tain the balance; B, pigeon with cerebrum removed to show balance maintained, but the animal reduced to a somnolent condition. the process of development, and throughout life these inherited channels play an important part in determining the results of stimulation.565 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAK MECHANISM (b) But it is also largely acquired by the indi- vidual, since the reception of each stimulus and the performance of a resulting action, however this be determined, tends to lay down a path which will again be followed. (2) Not only will the previous training of the brain thus act as the directive force in the response to stimuli, but the mitrition of the brain also plays an important part. The action of a brain when well nourished and freely supplied with pure blood is often very different to that of the same brain when badly nourished or imperfectly supplied with healthy blood. the past reactions, and thus the present response is determined. For appropriate reaction the whole mechanism must be normal—a very small injury to any part may not only entirely alter the reactions or conduct of the individual, but may also modify his mental condition. So far, cerebral action has been considered in a purely material manner as consisting of a series of reflex acts, higher and more complex than those in the spinal cord, in which the result of the stimulus varies in the same way, but to a much greater degree from its association with more complex past impressions. But cerebral action is generally ac- companied by changes in the conscious- ness of the individual, some of which are termed simple sensations, while others may be described as trains of thought. No sensation is, however, really simple, because so many arcs of the nervous system are constantly in action that the eff'ect of the action of any one arc upon our consciousness is necessarily influenced and modified by the activity of these other arcs. While this is true of the simpler sensations, it is doubly true of lines of thought. But essentially a train of thought is simply a train of modifications of the conscious- ness, each evoked by a preceding modi- fication or sensation. It is, in fact, impossible to conceive consciousness without sensation, or sensation without consciousness. Cerebral action frequently goes on without consciousness being implicated ; but so far as we know, consciousness without accompanying cerebral action is unknown, and there is evidence that it is only when the actions of the varioi;s parts of the cerebrum are co- ordinated that consciousness is possible. In cases of Jacksonian epilepsy, as a result of a small centre of irritation on Fig. 106.—Diagram to illustrate different ^Jossi'We channels of cerebral response the surface of the brain, a violently ^Llc^tir^Klgt?^^^^^^^^ excessive action of the cerebral neurons REceiviNO. DISCHAR.CINO, Since the education of the brain really consists in developing proper responses to various stimuli, the importance of the brain being in a healthy and well-nourished condition during the training is manifest. The power of diffey-entiating various stimuli and their reactions is correlated with the develop- ment of the cerebrum and becomes more perfect as the animal scale is ascended. The complexity of the cerebral action in the higher animals has its basis in the greater number of distinct im- pressions which have been received and reacted to. Each separate stimulus leaves its mark upon the brain, or, as we may say, is stored in the brain, and each subsequent similar stimulus is sent into these channels, or is associated with starts at the part irritated and passes to involve more and more of the brain. In such fits it is found that at first the patient's consciousness is not lost, but that, when a sufficient area of brain is involved in this ex- cessive and inco-ordinated action, consciousness disappears. The study of the action of drugs which abolish consciousness—e.g. chloroform and morphine— on the dendrites of brain cells suggests a physical explanation of the loss of consciousness. It is found that these drugs cause a general extension of the gemmules of all the dendrites; and, if we imagine that the co-ordinated action of any part of the brain is secured by definite dendrites of one set of neurons coming into relationship with definite dendrites of anotherPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 566 set of neurons by their gemmules so as to establish definite paths, the want of co-ordinate relationship established by the general expansion would explain the disappearance of the definite sensations which constitute consciousness. It is manifest that the range of consciousness must necessarily be wider where the stored impressions are most abundant, and where the present stimulus most readily calls into action these previous lines of cerebral activity. The storage of impressions is the basis of memory. The power of associating these stored impres- sions with the present stimulus is the basis of recollection. It is the implication of conscious- ness in this part of brain action which is the basis of mental activity. How far the mental action is a mere accompaniment of the physical changes, and how far it can react upon them, is a question which cannot be discussed here. But the study of the insane seems to point to the conclusion that the individual may do certain things and have certain ideas as concomitants of faulty brain action, rather than that his actions are a result of the modified ideas. 2. Time of Cerebral Action. — The cerebral mechanism takes a very appreciable time to act, and the time varies with the complexity of the action and with the condition of the nervous apparatus. Of the time between the presentation of a flash of light to the eye or a touch to the skin and a signal made when it is perceived by the person acted upon, part is occupied by the passage of the nerve impulses up and down the nerves and in the latent period of muscle action ; but a varying period of something over one- tenth of a second remains, representing the time occupied in the cerebral action. If the observation be complicated by re- quiring a di»criminatio7i to be made between different stimuli, the reaction time is longer, and, the less habitual the differentiation, the longer will the reaction time be. Thus in one accustomed to deal with figures, the discrimina- tion of a series of these is more rapidly carried out than in one unaccustomed to do so. Prolonged action of the nerve centres soon leads to a prolongation of the reaction time, and the same thing is produced by the action of alcohol, chloroform, and other poisons. 3. Fatigue of Cerebral Mechanism. — This naturally leads to the consideration of fatigue of the cerebral mechanism. The way in which, as a result of poisons, the definite co-relationship of certain sets of neurons with certain other sets is probably abolished by the generalised expansion of the gemmules of the dendrites has been already dealt with. In all probability the same thing occurs in fatigue, and by interrupt- ing the definite chain of action allows rest and recovery to supervene. But continued action may further lead to well-marked changes in the cell protoplasm of the neurons. The Nissl's granules diminish, and the nucleus shrivels and becomes poorer in chromatin. In all reflex action, whether spinal or cerebral, it is the central part of the mechanism which first becomes fatigued. If, by reflex excitation of the central nervous system of a frog, muscular movements are caused for some time, the stimulation ultimately fails to act; but, if the nerves going to the muscles are stimulated, the muscles at once respond, showing that the central mechanism has given out before the peripheral structures. Fatigue of the central nervous system is manifest both upon the receiving and reacting mechanism ; upon the receiving, on the physical side by prolongation of the reaction period, and on the metaphysical side by diminished power of attention. Upon the reacting side it is shown by lessened power of muscular contraction. {See also p. 508.) 4. Sleep.—Fatigue of the cerebral mechanism is closely connected with sleep. As the result of fatigue, external stimuli produce less and less effect, and thus the changes which are the physical basis of consciousness become less and less marked. At the same time, by artificial means stimuli are usually excluded as far as possible. Absence of light, of noise, and of tactile and thermal stimuli all conduce to sleep. Consciousness fades away, and, as the cerebral activity diminishes, the arterioles throughout the body dilate, and the arterial blood pressure falls, and thus less blood is sent to the brain, and the organ becomes more bloodless. The eyelids close, the eyeballs turn upwards, the pupils contract, and the voluntary muscles relax. The depth of sleep may be measured by the strength of the stimuli required to overcome it; and it has been found that usually it is deepest at about the end of an hour, and that it then rapidly becomes more and more shallow, until, as the result of some stimulus, or when the brain has regained its normal condition, it terminates. In the later hours of sleep the consciousness may be temporarily aroused with- out the other conditions of sleep disappearing, and as a result of this dreams may ensue. Or, on the other hand, without consciousness being necessarily restored, stimuli may lead to muscular responses of a perfectly definite and purposive character, and to such phenomena as sleep- walking. Hypnosis is a condition in some respects allied to sleep. It may be produced in many individuals by powerfully arresting the attention, and is probably due to a removal of the influence of the higher centres over the lower. When the condition is produced, the respirations and pulse become quickened, the pupils expand, and the sensitiveness of the neuro-muscular mechanism is so increased that merely strokingPHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEUEO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 567 a group of muscles may throw them into firm contraction. The individual becomes a reflex machine even as regards the cerebral arcs, and each stimulus is followed by an immediate reaction. The power of suggestion is exag- gerated. If a hypnotised person is told that he sees anything he acts at once as if he did actually see it. 5. Localisation of Functions.—The question must next be considered whether special parts of the brain are more especially connected with its three great functions— A. The reception of stimuli. B. The storing of effects, and the associating of present stimuli with these stored impressions. C. The production of the resulting actions. A. Reception of Stimuli. — In investigating the existence of special mechanisms for this purpose, several methods of inquiry are available. \st. By removing or stimulat- ing parts of the brain in the lower animals and studying the results. ^nd. By observations during life on the sensations or absence of sensations in patients suffering from disease of the brain, and the determination of the seat of the lesion after death. 3rc?. By the histological study of the ici?umb^. different parts of the cortex cerebri. ith. By the embryological study of the development of the myeline sheaths of the various bundles of nerve fibres. \st. Sensations are the usual accom- paniment of the activity of the receiving mechanism. But in the lower animals it is not possible to have a direct expression of whether sensations are experienced or not, and, therefore, in determining whether removal of any part of the brain has taken away the power of receiving impressions, we have to depend on the absence of the usual modes of response to any given stimulus. But the absence of the usual response may mean, not that the receiving mechanism is destroyed, but either that the reacting mechanism is out of action or that the channels of conduction have been interfered with. {See Fig. 106.) Thus, if light be flashed in the eye of a monkey, it responds by glancing towards the source of illumination ; and if these movements are absent this may be due (1) to loss of re- ceiving mechanism, to (2) loss of the mechanism causing the movements, or (3) to interruption of the channels between them. Again, it is quite possible that, after removing the receiving mechanism in the cerebrum, ex- ternal stimuli may lead to the usual response by acting through lower reflex arcs (Fig. 106). If, for instance, we suppose the receiving part of the cerebrum connected with the reception of tactile impressions entirely destroyed, scratch- ing the sole of the foot may still cause the leg to be drawn up, just as if a sensation had been experienced. Here, although the upper arc is out of action, the lower arc still acts. In the lower animals, stimulation of a part of the brain, if it be connected with the recep- tion of impressions, may cause the series of movements which naturally follow such an im- pression. But these movements may also be caused by directly stimulating the reacting mechanism. When, however, removal of a part of the brain causes no loss of power of move- ment, and yet prevents a stimulus from causing its natural response, it is justifiable to conclude that that part of the brain is connected with reception. 2nd. In man, the chief difficulty of obtaining information is in finding cases where only a limited part of the brain is affected. But such cases have been observed. Tumours of the Ear- ..- , - / EyeUd / cuiaure afja,* gjOcCtscentraUa. I'IG. 107.—Left hemisphere of brain of chimpanzee to show the results of stimulating different parts. The sulcus centralis is the fissure of Rolando. (BYom Grlinbaum and Slierrington.) inner aspect of an occipital lobe, for instance, have been found to be associated with loss of visual sensations without loss of muscular power, and thus the conclusion has been drawn that this part of the occipital lobe is the receiving mechanism for stimuli from the eyes. 3rc?. When it has been found possible to assign a definite function to any area of the cortex, the extent and limits of the area may be determined by the extent and distribution of the particular character of the arrangement and structure of the nerve cells. ^th. Flechsig has found that bands of fibres going to certain parts of the cortex get their medullary sheaths earlier than others, and that the fibres to each part of the cortex become medullated at a definite date. The areas, the fibres of which first get their sheath, he calls the primary projection areas, and they corre- spond very closely with the receiving areas determined by other methods (Figs. 108a and 108b).568 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Visual Centre.—The way in which the fibres, coming from the two retinae, are connected with each thalamus opticus and occipital lobe has been already considered, and it has been shown that the optic tract passes into the geniculate ,9 Fig. 108a.—To show Flechsig's primary projection areas on the inner aspect of the cerebral cortex (See text.) (Howell.) bodies on the posterior aspect of the thalamus, and that a strong band of fibres, the optic radiation, extends from these backwards to the occipital lobes (Fig. 73, p. 544). An extensive lesion of one—say of cells (Fig. 109). This arrangement becomes more and more defined as we pass from the simpler mammals with separate vision for the two eyes to the primates with combined vision with the two eyes. Probably each part of the centre is con- / , nected with definite ^ parts of the two retinae. Certain it is that there is no part of this cortical mech- anism connected with the blind spot, and hence this is not per- ceived in ordinary vision. Colour perception seems to be a less fundamental function of the visual appar- atus than perception of the degree and direction of illumina- tion, and hence colour perception may be lost in cases of com- paratively slight lesions of the occipital lobes without the other functions being im- paired. One of the most recently acquired functions of the mechanism is the power of appreciating the significance of the signs used the right ■— occipital lobe, especially if on the inner aspect round the calcarine fissure, is accompanied by no loss of muscular power but by blindness for all objects in the op- posite side of the field of vision — i.e. the right side of each retina is blind. The central spot of neither eye is completely blinded because the fibres from the macula lutea only partially decussate at the chiasma. Stimulation in this region causes move- ment of the eyes to the opposite side, as if some object were perceived there. Histologically this area is characterised by a well-defined band of white fibres between the layer of stellate cells and the internal layer of pyramidal cells, the band of Gennari (Fig. 104, G, p. 564), and by a characteristic arrangement •v^....-fc- no. lOSB.—To show Flechsig's primary projection areas on the outer aspect of the cerebral cortex. (See text.) (Howell.) in written language, and it is found that in small and superficial lesions this function may alone be lost. Flechsig finds that this area is supplied by a band of fibres which very early get tlieir myelin slieath (Fig. 108a, 5).569 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM Around this area is a zone, lesions in which cause disturbances in vision less profound in character than those produced in the region of the calcarine fissvire. The zone has a character- istic cell arrangement, but no line of Gennari. It is very slightly developed in lower mammals, but becomes well marked in the primates and especially in man. It is supplied with associ- ating fibres joining it to the last area, and these fibres become medullated at a comparatively late date. It would seem as if this were the region in which the simple visual sensations become asso- ciated with the stored passed experiences so as Fig. 109.—To show the mapping out of the cerebral cortex on its outer and inner aspects into areas by the character and distribution of the cells and fibres. (Campbell.) to give rise to the perception of the significance of these sensations. It has been termed the visuo-psychic area of the cortex (Fig. 109). The visuo-sensory area is united by a strong- band through the middle cerebral peduncle with the cerebellum (see p. 561), and from it a strong band of fibres passes to an area in the frontal region, concerned with the movements of the eyes, and also connected with the cere- bellum through the peduncle. While there is good evidence that a special localised area of the cortex is connected with the reception of stimuli from the eyes, the evidence of the existence of similar areas or centres con- nected with the other organs of special sense is not so satisfactory. Auditor!/ Centre.—Ferrier, by removing the superior temporo-sphenoidal lobe in the monkey, produced no motor disturbance, but found evi- dence of loss of hearing in the opposite ear. When the region was stimulated he found that the monkey pricked up its ears, and looked to the opposite side, and he considered that these observations prove the existence of a special localised mechanism for the reception of stimuli from the ear. Schafer has removed these con- volutions from both sides in the monkey, with aseptic precautions, and kept the animal alive. He failed to find evidence of loss of auditory sensations. Stimulation of the ear in such animals still caused the usual muscular response. But since lower connections exist between the auditory nuclei in the medulla and the centres for muscular ^^^^ movement in the spinal cord (Figs. 80 and 81), this observation cannot be ac- cepted as excluding the I'elationship of the superior temporo - sphenoidal con- volution to hearing. The existence of such a relationship is strongly supported by pathological evidence. Cases of epi- lepsy have been recorded in which the first symptom of the fit was the hearing of sounds, and in which the lesion was found in this lobe. The limits of this centre are defined by a characteristic cell distribution (Fig. 109), and around it is an area with a somewhat different cell arrange- ment, which is probably the psycho- auditory region (Fig. 109)—the region in which the changes in the central region connected with the production of simple sensation are associated with the stored passed impressions to enable the nature of the sensation to be compre- hended. The central sensory area is early supplied by medullated fibres (Fig. 108b). Taste and Smell.—The intimate re- lationship of these senses renders it probable that their centres are closely associated in the cortex. A study of the development of the olfactory mechanism throughout the mammalian series throws considerable light upon the position of the cortical centre. Many mammals depend very largely upon the sense of smell in their relationship with the external, while others, e.g. man, use it less, and the cetacea do not use it at all. In the first group, the osmatic mammals, the olfactory bulbs and tracts are enormously developed. Each bulb terminates behind in three roots, the inmost sending fibres across to the opposite side (Fig. 49, iv.), the others sending fibres to a part of the cortex at the base of brain just outside the olfactory tracts (Fig. 49, iii.). In man and apes, from the development of thePHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM 570 temporo-sphenoidal lobe this region gets carried outwards and is represented by a swelling, the lobus pyriformis, on the inner aspect under the uncus (Fig. 109). The cortex in the region indicated in the figure has a peculiar arrange- ment of cells. The medullated fibres to this area are early developed (Fig. 108a, 4a). Ferrier states that removal of the hippocampal convolution, including the lobus pyriformis in monkeys, leads to loss of taste and smell, and that stimulation causes torsion of the nostrils and lips, as if sensations of smell or taste were being experienced. Other experimenters have observed inter- ference with the sense of smell in destructive lesions of the hippocampal lobe, and one case at least has been desci-ibed in which a tumour of the right gyrus hippocampus was associated with sensations of smell. Touch.—Ferrier thought that removal of the hippocampal convolution caused loss of tactile sense, while Schafer describes the gyrus forni- catus as the centre for this sense. It has been objected that in removing this lobe the fibres going to the areas on the outside of the cortex are apt to be injured. According to the observa- tions of Mott, when the cortex round the fissure of Rolando—in which the mechanism for causing the various combinations of muscular move- ments is situated—is removed in the monkey, clips may be attached to the skin on the opposite side of the body without attracting attention, while if they are placed on the same side they are at once removed. He therefore regards the Rolandic area of the brain as con- nected with the reception of tactile impressions. This view is strongly supported by the evi- dence of morphology. The ascending parietal convolution is early supplied by medullated fibres coming from the thalamus (Fig. 108b, 2), and in it a type of cell distribution similar to that in the other sensory areas exists (Fig. 109). Further, in this region Campbell has described degenerative changes as the result of extensive disease of the posterior nerve roots. As already indicated, this centre must act as a chart of the surface of the body, stimulation of any definite part of the body leading to changes in the definite part of the centre, and these changes are accompanied by sensations referred to the part stimulated. We know nothing of the locality of centres connected with the thermal and muscular senses. B. Storing and Associating Mechanism.—The existence of a special part or parts of the brain connected with the storing of impressions, so that they may be associated with present sensa- tions, is indicated by the following considera- tions :—It is this association of present stimuli with past sensations which is the basis of intel- lectual life, and in man, where apparently the intellectual functions are most highly developed, the frontal and parietal lobes of the brain are much larger than in the lower animals. So far stimulation of these lobes has failed to give indication of resulting sensations or to produce muscular movements. They may be extensively injured without loss of sensation and without paralysis, and hence it has been concluded that the storing and associating functions must be chiefly located in them. Further, in these regions the nerve fibres acquire their medullary sheath at a very late date. C Discharging Mechanism.—(a) The position of the discharging mechanism for cerebral action has been definitely localised, by pathological and experimental observation, in the cerebral con- volutions round, or probably chiefly in front of, the fissure of Rolando or sulcus centralis (Fig. 107, p. 567). Destructive lesions of this area on one side cause a loss of the so-called voluntary action of groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body. The cerebral arc is stimulated and acts along certain lines—possibly with the accompaniment of changes in consciousness and a sensation of decision as to the line of action to be taken and a desire to accomplish it—but this so-called volition is not accompanied by the appropriate muscular action. From the fre- quent involvement of the so-called volition in these actions, and from the fact that it is the metaphysical changes which figure in our con- sciousness rather than the physical changes which are their basis, we are accustomed to assume that the movements produced are the result of volition, and to speak of them as volun- tary movements, and of the brain mechanism producing them as voluntary centres. There is no harm in doing so, if we remember that these centres can and do act without the involvement of consciousness, and, therefore, without voli- tion ; and that their action generally implies the previous action of parts of the receiving and associating mechanism of the cerebrum. But certain lesions may directly stimulate these centres, causing them to act without the previous action of the other cerebral mechanisms. This is seen in Jacksonian epilepsy, where, as the result of a spicule of bone or a thickened bit of membrane, one part of the cortex is from time to time excited, and by its action produces movement of certain groups of muscles. Experimental observations have fully con- firmed and extended the conclusions arrived at from such pathological evidence. If parts of these convolutions be excised in the monkey, the animal loses the power of voluntary movement of certain groups of muscles, while if they are stimulated by electricity these gi'oups of muscles respond. These convolutions, just in front of the fissure of Rolando, may be considered as a map of the various muscular combinations throughout the body, the map l^eing mounted so that the lower part represents the face, the middle part the arm, and the upper part the leg. Each large571 PHYSIOLOGY—TISSUES AND NEURO-MUSCULAR MECHANISM division is filled in so that all the various com- binations of muscular movement are represented (Figs. 107 and 109). It must be remembered that these centres do not send nerves to single muscles, but act upon groups to produce definite combined movements, through the lower spinal centres. (b) The action of these centres involves not only stimulation of certain muscles, but the in- hibition of others. This is very clearly shown as regards the eye movements. In the monkey the resting position of the eyes _ is straight forward, with the optic axes parallel. If all the nerves to the ocular muscles be cut this position is assumed, and if the position of the eye be passively altered, upon removing the displacing force it springs back to this position. If the III. or IV. nerve of the left side be cut so that the external rectus alone is unparalysed, then, exciting a part of the cortex which causes movements of the two eyes to the opposite side, produces not only a movement of the right eye in that direction, but a movement of the left eye to the right as far as the middle line—the position of rest—showing that the VI. nerve has been inhibited. Stimulation of the cortex causes flexion more readily than extension, apparently because the inhibitory mechanism for the extensors is better developed than that for the flexors. Sherrington finds that under the influence of strychnine or of tetanus toxin this condition is reversed, and that stimuli which in normal conditions will cause flexion now cause powerful extension, and hence co-ordinated movement is impossible. (c) In these motor areas the lesion must be extensive to cause complete paralysis of any group of muscles. A limited lesion may simply cause a loss of the finer movements. Thus, a monkey with part of the middle portion of the Rolandic areas removed may be able to move its arm and hand, but may be quite unable to pick up objects from the floor of its cage. As in the case of the receiving, so in that of the discharging mechanism, it is the most re- cently acquired functions which are most easily lost. This is well illustrated by the results of lesions of the left inferior frontal convolution— the area which presides over movements of the lips and tongue. This is the centre which has to be specially educated in the use of spoken language ; and, when this region is only slightly injured, the power of using language may be lost without there being any impairment in the power of moving the muscles. This was long ago observed by Broca, and hence this part of the brain is often called Broca's convolution. Similarly, in the hand area, while crude lesions are required to cause loss of power of moving the hand, very slight interferences with nutri- tion may cause loss of power of expressing language in writing. (d) The limits of these areas may be mapped out by the character and distribution of the cells. The great feature is the presence of very large pyramidal cells, the cells of Betz, in the sixth layer of the cortex (Fig. 109). These are confined to the ascending frontal lobes. But in front of this is a region stimulation of which gives rise to movements, and in which the cell arrangement is much the same except that the cells of Betz are absent. Well out in the frontal region is a patch, stimulation of which leads to movements of the eyes (p. 569), and this region is directly connected by a strong band of fibres with the occipital lobe and with the cerebellum. It is present only in animals which employ binocular vision. It has been suggested that this intermedio-precentral region is specially connected with the finer and more highly co- ordinated muscular movements, such as those of the eyes and of the mouth in speech. PhysiolOgry—Part II. (Nutrition of THE Tissues) will appear in vol. viii.INDEX Neriin .... PAGE Neris .... 1 Nerium Oleander . 1 Neroli Oil . . . 1 Nerve .... 1 Nerve, Aviditory 1 Nerve Cell 1 Nerve Deafness 1 Nerve Fibres . 1 Nerve Storms \ Nerves, Diseases of. I Nerves, Peripheral, In- juries and Diseases of . 1 Multiple Peripheral Neuritis 12 Neuralgia 25 Nervi .... 33 Nervi Erigentes 33 Nervi Nervorum 33 Nervitone 33 Nervosine 33 Nervosism 33 Nervous System, Dis- eases of . . . 33 Nessler's Reagent or Solu- tion .... 33 Nestle's Food . 34 Nettlerash 34 Nettleship's Dots . 34 Nettle Stings , 34 Netzbeutel 34 Neubauer's Ganglion 34 Neuber's Method 34 Neuenahr 34 Neuiuann's Corpuscles 34 Neumann's Crystals 34 Neumann's Disease 34 Neurad .... 34 Neuradynamia 34 Ncureemia 34 Neural .... 34 Neuralgia 34 Neuralgin 34 Neurapophysis 34 Neurarthropathy . 34 Neurasthenia . 34 Neuratrophy . PAGE . 45 Neurectasis 45 Neurectomy . . 45 Neurectopia . . 45 Neurenteric Canal . . 45 Neurhypnology . 46 Neuridine . 46 Neurilemma . . 46 Neurilemmitis . 46 Neurine . . 46 Neuritis . . 46 Neuro- . . 46 Neuroblacia . . 46 Neurocardiac . . 46 Neurochoroiditis . 46 Neurocoele . 46 Neurocyte . 46 Neurodendron . 46 Neurodin . 46 Neui'odynia . . 46 Neuro-epithelium . . 46 Neurofibroma. . 46 Neurofibromatosis . . 46 Neuroglia . 46 Neuroglioma . . 46 Neurography . . 46 Neurohypnology . 46 Neurokeratin . . 47 Neurology . 47 Neurolysis . 47 Neuroma . 47 Neurometadrasis 47 Neuromere . 47 Neuromimesis . 47 Neuromuscular . 47 Neuron . . 47 Neuronal . 47 Neuronophagia . 47 Neuronosus . 47 Neuropathology . 47 Neuropathy . . 47 Neuroplasty . . 47 Neuroporus . 47 Neuroprosopalgia . . 47 Neuroretinitis . 47 Neurorrhaphy . 47 572 Neuroses PAGE 47 Neuroses, Occupation 47 Neurotomy Neusser's Granules . 51 51 Neutral Dyes . 51 Neutrophile Granules 51 New-born Infant . 51 Newquay 62 Newton's Rings 62 New York State . 62 New Zealand . 62 Nexus 62 Nice 62 Nickar Nuts . . 62 Nickel Salts . 62 Nickle's Test . 62 Nicol's Prism . 62 Nicotianin 62 Nicotine 62 Nicotinism 62 Nictitating Membrane 62 Nictitating Spasm . 62 Nictitation . 62 Nidus . . 62 Niemeyer's Pill 62 Nightblain 62 Night-Blindness Nightmare . 62 . 62 Nightshade . 63 Night Sweats . Night Terrors 63 . 63 Nigrismus 64 NikiforofFs Method . 64 Nimbus . 64 Ninth Nerve . 64 Nipple-Line . 65 Nipples . . 65 Nirvanine 65 Nissl's Bodies. 65 Nissl's Degeneration . 65 Nisus . 65 Nithsdale Neck . 65 Nitrates . . 65 Nitric Acid . 65 Nitrification . . 65 Nitrite of Amy! . 65IxN lJjliJ\. 01 0 1 PAGE PAGE PAGE IN UriTjcS .... \JtJ Ixr^ap TilaPQGPQ! r»T .ori^rfffl Xi UoCj JL'lofc;<aot;!5 Ul '\j\Jllli\jj, InTh'^.vi ^"1 Xi tlbiiliiUll ■ X ou Nitro- .... V ctllULla V>UllU.lL10Uo XN LlLlUot; • . . . X 0\} X> lLlU-JJ<10tfcJilcl fifi \J\J T'QT'QGII^PQ X c*.l (tiol LCo . X ^ TC X^ LIUO • . , . X ou ly ILIOUcIlZUlc . . 66 T-Ttt H w n rp Q xxy U.1 Ul 1 injcct AT 11T \AriTifi 1 llA. V UlXllL/d X Uu 66 r? n 1 nr»i'vncx^vk XVlllllUl 1 llUCd • 125 "\rT7p+',fi 1 nnift Xi y KjljcXLKJlJLCh . t X uu 66 Noso- 126 Nvptfi n tb PS 137 Nitroglucose . fifi XN ubUCUUlla/l • . . 1 ofi XN y CUiUltLllUbUo 1 ^7 lot Niti'OglycGrine fifi XN UoU^clltJSio 1 ofi XN V CLuUcUXlcl • ■ . 1 ^7 X 0 i ^'vr^V*tttI vr\/*nlriViO A Pin 66 lVnQno"T*ii fin \T Xi UoUgit*uiiy . . 126 T;7'P'f",m"i n n nm xi y i--uu uiiu ulct . . • 1 "^7 XN 1 tl ULLlUllclo 66 AT riC cA C\ (TTT x^ uouiUH y . • . 126 ^1 vpf'.n'n n on m Xi y u uu uiiuiiioj . 1 S7 tot 66 Xi UoUlllctlllct * • . 126 Nvp,f,nf,bpvns T^^fiba Xl y v/U'JUlld Lto X CIiKJCai , t 1 37 X U 1 66 x> UoUiiuiiiy . 126 ^vlsinripv''^ 'Ppcif, xi y itiiitxci o xc/ou • . 1 37 x> izm 66 XiUoUpiitJil 19fi X ^ U T71T1 T\ n EP xi y 111 uiiro . . . X 0 f NoSiS th, G ni£i fifi UU XN UoUpiiU Ula. 1 ^U XN y iiipiicotuiiiy LO 1 '\rr\V\c»l 'o T^l Q o-f-in n* Oil ±>OUclC) iJlciC) Ulllgi yjLi fifi uu XN Uotdl^ld; , 1 .jU Nymphomania 1 ^7 LO 1 66 AT/^qI" yti Qi St x^ Uo ul doict ■ . . 126 ISFvrn nb nnb nbifi X'l y ixi uiiu uiiu uicii . . 1 37 X 0 ( Nocturnal fifi Nostril .... Nystagmus . . , 1 Q7 Xo 1 X> UU-di .... 66 Nostrum 126 ISF'VQ'f.pn T iSi w xi youcii o xjc*iw ■ • 1 37 Lot XNOClClillg Opdolll 66 UU XN Utdlgld , • 1 9fi ± ^ U Nodes .... fifi xNotcn .... 1 ^u o Xo t Nodules.... fifi Notencepbalus Notlinagel's Symptom 1 .JU VJaKUIll .... 1 f?7 Xo < Noema .... fifi vjaLiis • . . . Loi iS oises .... fifi U U X> ULllllOigcl & XtJbU , • X *jU (Id tTYl PEl 1 \J<h LlXlCCtl ... 1 ^7 X 0 / i> 011-me- ± dngcrtJ fifi UU XN otinauic . , v/ Uclll .... 1 5!7 XO < X> UlllOr .... 67 U 1 XN UulliCcltlUll , X ..J u Ii riri r»VTT> i i on V-/ UUUl 1111 uiUll . , 1 ^7 LOI IVn-n r^nrrrnnci lVrPTTl".lS 67 ±\ U uUOllUl u , . , 1 ^ifi X ^ u O'T^pivTip^Q Sinlnnp'fp'p \J XJCll lie O k? UXllllULtJX 1 ^7 X 0 1 Nonipara 67 U t x^ OTjomeius O'Beirne's Tube 1 ^7 xo ( Non-Union u t Notomyelitis . 1 97 \J UtJllUll .... LOI 67 AT Airn QTii VI n XN U V do Ull 111 . , , 1 27 ObpviTiPiPV s SlriivilbiTYi \^ kJK^L UlC/lCI. O y~J UIX 111 UlXl , 1 ^7 Lot Noologia fiV Novocaine Obermeyer's Test V../Ucl UlUllCl O X cot Xoo XN oorQen b x i tJci Liiicii u , 67 U 1 Nubecula 1 9*7 XOO XN OOSLcI tJblo . • • 67 U 1 x> uunity ^ 97 v/utJoity .... 1 <18 XOo Nordauism U 1 ^Tii nil o 1 XN ucnai .... 1 97 yjuxiA. .... 1 /I Q XiO SM u lU. L 111 tJ y 1 jjciivcieiu. x> LICK, \_/auai ui . 1 97 il ViTii GPQ i'lon \J Ui 1X0*^01 UiU 11 • . . X4o r liter .... U 1 Nuclear, . , . 1 97 yj ujtJOui Vc . Lit X> UIlll .... 67 U 1 XN UOicdoc • . • 1 97 0 n 11 era 't'P VyUlliiCHjC ... X^^ Norma .... fiY Nucleic Acid , , , 1 97 wuiK^ue .... 1*4: XN omiuuitibt , . fi7 U 1 Nuclein • . . . 1 97 X^ 1 vyUllUUlLy . . - . X4:'± xN orris ^^orpubcie U 1 Nucleo- • . . • 1 97 X ^ 1 1 li*\liniiiici \J UllU LIUS . , X4:4 i^iorxn x>erwicK U 1 Nucleo-Albumin • 1 97 1 Ir^ll'^'lUVOT'l /"M^ yj uiiLcrdLiuii 1 /( 4 14:* 67 XN LLOltJU XllotUllc , 1 ?!7 X f 0 nl 1 f'.PT'fi +",1 VP A vt".PV7'i"ia UllucicijuiVc xxiuciiLio • X ^4: Xi Ul LUll o IT Clio . . 67 XN LlOltJUluo , * , 1 27 0 nnn nil nfion Ull u unci LlUll . . X Norway .... fi7 Nucleon.... 1 97 Obsession 1 A A 14:4 Norwegian Itch. D < Nucleoplasm • 1 97 Obstetrics AAA 14:4: XlOSCj J-/lScabtJb Ul fi7 Nucleoproteids or Nucleo- Obstipation ^ AK 14:0 Afr^QP n.YQTmnfl'I'.inTI c\t X'l UbtJj XJJJ^<AlJJLlLlCXi\ji.\JLl Ul fi7 U 1 protems . . 1 97 \J Uo ul U.U uiUil . • . 14:0 jj XillcCbblltJblti Ul . 74. Nucleus • . , • 1 97 X 1 l-/L)oLI Uclll; . . 1 /i 14:0 Xi abai V^llllL/Co dllLl Nuel's Space . • 1 97 V/ L) L/ u ra Lur . . 1 /( K 14:0 SipT*'i".llTn tOCUuUlll . • 75 XN UtJI lllC .... 1 97 llppim'I'fi 1 yjL/\jl Ul udi • , 14:0 ACUuc XIlliailllliclLlUllo oyj "\rii V» 'o 1 XN unn s ijrianQ 1 97 XZ / Occipito- A A K 14:0 OVi vnni r> Tnii 5i ty> tn p - v^lll Ulliu xiiiiCAiiiiiiicJj 1 97 vyOOlUUl; .... 14:0 tions • Nullip£ir3; , , . 1 98 X (Ir>r>lncji on vyCClUolUll . ■ 14:0 nVivnniP Tirfppti VP v^'iii uiii*^ iiiic;^ ui V c 1 9.R X o Oppii nsi t.! on Ll UdiUlUil . ■ . 11^ LtO vyonuitions oo Nummular 1 98 X ZiO Ochlophobia . 145 T^ricf-nQCQ 1 A oPTimn X Uou llclo£*l XiU-dlUlU. 1>I UIlll a l-vUlUUGOlCG . 1 98 X .jO 1 li^ h T"on oci Q xJK^LlL UllUoio • . , 1 /< F^ X40 VjriU W Lllo > * Q1 Nursery Hygiene 1 98 Octan .... 140 X> tJUlUScb . . Q7 y 1 Nurse's Contracture loo Octarius 1 A K 140 iiccessory v^avities, Nursing .... LOO Octipara 145 Inflammations . 100 Nursing, Training for 133 Ocular .... 145 Various Conditions— Nutation 136 Ocular Muscles, Affec- Foreign Bodies 123 Nutmeg.... 136 tions of . . . 145 Rhinoliths . 124 Nutmeg Liver 136 Oculo- .... 158INDEX 574 PAGE PAGE PAGE Oculus .... 158 Olea . . . . 167 Oncometer . 169 Ocytocic 158 Oleate .... 167 Oneida Community . 170 Odaxesmus 158 Olecranon 167 Oneiro- . . . . 170 Odessa .... 158 Olefiant Gas . 167 Onions . . 170 Odol .... 158 Olefine .... 167 Onomatomania . 170 Odontagra 158 Oleic Acid 167 Ontario . . 170 Odontalgia 158 Olein .... 167 Ontogeny . 170 Odonterismus 158 Oleomargarine 167 Onychatrophy . 170 Odonthsemodia 158 Oleo-Resins 168 Onychia or Onychitis . 170 Odontitis 158 Oleum .... 168 Onycho- . 170 Odonto- .... 158 Olfactory 168 Onychograph . . 170 Odontoblasts . 158 Olibanum 168 Onychogryposis . 170 Odontoclasts . 158 Oligsemia 168 Onychomycosis . 170 Odontodol 158 Oligo- .... 168 Onychophagy. . 170 Odontoid 158 Oligo-Amnios . 168 Onychorrhexis . 170 Odontolith 158 Oligochromemia 168 Onygena Equina . 170 Odontoloxia . 158 Oligocythsemia or Oligo- Onyx . 170 Odontoma 158 cytosis 168 Oo- . . . . 170 Odontotrypy . O'Dwyer's Tubes 158 Oligogalactia . 168 Ooblast . . 170 158 Oligoglobulia . 168 Oocephalus . 170 Odynephobia . 158 Oligohydramnios 168 Oogonia. . 170 ffidema .... 158 Oligolecithal . 168 Oolemma . 170 Q^dipism 158 Oligomania 168 Oophorectomy . 170 ffinanthic Acid 158 Oligomenorrhoea 168 Oophorin . 170 Oertel's Method 159 Oligojahosphaturia . 168 Oophoritis . 170 Oesel .... 159 Oligosideraemia 168 Oophoro- . 170 Oesophageal . 159 Oligospermia . 168 Oophorocele . . 170 Esophagectomy 159 Oliguria 168 Oophorohysterectomy . 170 CEsophagismus 159 Olivary .... 168 Oophoro mania . 170 <Esophagitis . 159 Olive Oil . . . 168 Oophoron . 170 ffisophago- 159 Oliver Bark . 168 Oophorosalpingitis . . 170 ffisophagocele 159 Oliver's Arteriometer 168 Oophorrhaphy . 170 ffisophago-Enterostomy . 159 Oliver's Htemocytometer 168 Oosperm . 170 ffisophagoptosis 159 Oliver's Heemodynamo- Open-Air Treatment . 170 ffisophagoscopy 159 meter 169 Open-Door System . . 170 ffisophagostenosis . 159 Oliver's Heemoglobino- Open Spaces Act . 170 ffisophagostomy 159 meter 169 Operations . 171 (Esophagotomy 159 Oliver's Symptom . 169 Operculum . 172 Oesophagus, Injuries and Oliver's Test . 169 Ophiophagus . . 172 Diseases of . 159 Ollier's Law . 169 Ophryon . 172 ffistrus or Qistrum 166 Omagra .... 169 Ophryosis . 172 Oeynhausen . 166 Omasum 169 Ophthalmia . . 172 Offal .... 166 Omelet .... 169 Ophthalmitis . . 172 Offensive 166 Omentopexy . 169 Ophthalmo- . . 172 Official and Officinal 166 Omentum 169 Ophthalmocephalus . 172 Ogston's Line 166 Omo- .... 169 Ophthalmodonesis . . 172 Ogston's Operation . 166 Omodynia 169 Ophthalmodynia . 172 Ohinemutu 166 Omophagia 169 Ophthalmology . 172 Ohm .... 166 Omphalitis 169 Ophthalmometer . 172 Oidium .... 167 Omphalo- 169 Ophthalmoplasty . . 172 Oidium Albicans 167 Omphalo-Angiopagous 169 Ophthalmoplegia . . 172 Oidomycosis . 167 Omphalocele 169 Ophthalmoptosis . 173 Oikophobia 167 Omphalocephaly 169 Ophthalmo Reaction . 173 Oil-immersion Lens 167 Omphalomesenteric or Ophthalmoscope . 174 Oils .... 167 Omphalomesaraic 169 Ophthalmoscopy . 174 Oinomania 167 Omphalopagus 169 Ophthalmotrope . 174 Ointments 167 Omphalophlebitis . 169 Opianic Acid . 174 Ojo Caliente . 167 Omphalorrhagia 169 Opio- . 174 Okme .... 167 Omphalosite . 169 Opisthion . 174 Okol .... 167 Omphalotripsy 169 Opisthorchis . . 174 Old Age 167 Onanism 169 Opisthotonos . . 174 Old Maid's Insanity 167 Oncology 169 Opium . . 174575 T AT Tl^ "V PAQK PAOE PAGE Opo- 176 Osazones 191 Otomycosis 197 Opocephahis . 176 Os Calcis 191 Otophone 197 Opodeldoc 17o Oscheo- . . . . 191 Otopiesis 197 Opopanax 176 Osiander's Sign 191 Otorrhagia 197 Opotherapy . Oppenheim's Gait . 176 Osier's Disease 191 Otorrhoea 197 lib Osmic Acid 1 A 1 191 Otoscope 198 Oppolzer's Sign . 176 Osmidrosis 191 Otto of Rose . 198 Opponens . 176 Osmo- . . . . 191 Ouabaine 199 Opsigamy 176 Osmosis . . . . 191 Ourentery 199 Opsomania lib Os Tribasilare 1 A 1 191 Ouseht . . . . 1 AA 199 Opsonins 177 Os Uteri 191 Outfalls . . . . 199 Optic . 177 Osphy- . . . . 191 Outgoing Nerves 199 Optico-ciliary . 177 Ossagen . . . . 192 Ova . . . 199 Optimum 177 Ossein . . . . 1 A O 19z Ovalbumen 1 AA 199 Optogram . 177 Osseous . . . . 192 Ovaraden 199 Optometer . 177 Ossicle . . . . 192 Ovaralgia 199 Oral . 177 Ossiculectomy 192 Ovarian . . . . 199 Orange . . 177 Ossification 192 Ovaries, Diseases of the . 199 Orangeade 177 Osteitis . . . . 192 Ovariin and Ovarine 217 /~\ T711 TXT J. Orange Flower Water . 177 Osteo- . . . . 192 Ovario- . . . . 217 Orange River Colony . 177 Osteoarthritis. 192 Ovariotomy . 217 Orange Wine . . 177 Osteo-A rthropathies 192 Ovaritis . . . . 217 Ora Serrata . . 177 Osteoblast 194 Ovary . . . . 217 Orbicularis . 177 Osteochondritis 194 Overcrowding. 217 Orbit, Diseases of the . 177 Osteochondroma 194 Over-Exertion 218 Orchi- . . 190 Osteoclasis 194 Overlying or Overlaying . 218 Orchidectomy . 190 Osteoclast 194 Overtime 218 /A 1*1* Orchidm . 190 Osteocopic Pain 195 Oviducts 218 Orchidopexy . . 190 Osteodentine . 195 Oviparous 218 Orchidotherapy 190 Osteodiastasis 195 Ovisac . . . . 218 Orchidotomy . . 190 Osteofibroma . 195 Ovo- . . . . 218 Orchitis. . 190 Osteogenesis . 195 Ovoferrin 218 Orcin . 190 Osteogenesis Imperfecta 195 Ovoid . . . . 218 Orexine . 190 Osteology 195 Ovotestis 218 Orezza . 190 Osteoma 195 Ovula JNabothi 218 Organ 190 Osteomalacia . ^95 Ovulation 218 Organ of Corti 190 Osteomyelitis . 196 Ovum . . . . 218 Organ of Giraldes . 190 Osteopathy 196 Oxal- . . . . 218 Organ or Golgi . 190 Osteoperiostitis 196 Oxalsemia 218 Organ of Jacobson . 190 Osteophyte 196 Oxalan . . . . 218 Organ of Rosenmiiller 190 Osteoplasty 196 Oxalates 218 Organogenesis 190 Osteoporosis . 196 Oxalic Acid 218 Organotherapy . 190 Osteopsathyrosis 196 Oxaluria 218 Organs . . 190 Osteosarcoma . 196 Oxaluric Acid. 218 Orgasm . . 190 Osteosclerosis. 196 Ox Gall . . . . 218 Oriental isoii . . 190 Osteotomy . 196 Oxidation 219 Orientation . 190 Ostium . . 196 Oxy- . . . . 219 Oriiice . . 191 Oswego . . 196 Oxysesthesia . 219 Origanum . 191 Otalgia . . 197 Oxyblepsia 219 Onzabin 191 Othajmatoma . . 197 Oxybutyric Acid 219 Ornithodorus . . 191 Otic . 197 Oxycamphor . 219 Oroya be\er . . 191 Otitis . . 197 Oxycephaly . 219 Ortno- . . 191 Otitis Externa . 197 Oxychlorate . 219 Orthoform 191 Otitis Interna . 197 Oxyecoia 219 Orthodiagraphy . 191 Otitis Media . . 197 Oxygen . . . . 219 Orthognathy . . 191 Oto- . 197 Oxygeusia 219 Orthopaedics . . 191 Otocephaly . 197 Oxyhasmatoporphyrin 219 Orthopncea . 191 Otoconia . 197 Oxyhaemoglobin 219 Orthoptic IV 1 Otocyst . 1 V 1 \jxy iiLKii . . . . Orthotonus . 191 Otodynia . 197 Oxymella 219 Oryza Sativa . 191 Otolyths . 197 Oxynite Process 220 Os. . 191 Otology . . 197 Oxyntic Cells . 220576 INDEX PAGE PAGE PAGE 1 1 "V TT r\ 'TA1 X allaciiuQi Zoo i arablast 9^io J p -J _j V/ Palliative Treatment 9^8 Parablepsis O w 1"^ TO "f, p in \yA. J lJL\J\J\JXll . . 220 X UlllLllXl < • , , 9S8 r^C\ V£l Ml 1 Yl n P X dl cl U LIA J lie • . . 220 Pallor 9S8 Pa VQ ni 111 tl X ell d U Llilcl . , 9fi9 V/i y *J UlllUlllJU . . *j -J V/ X dlllidl .... Paracasein 9A9 V7A y HJL/H>o 220 I f! 1 V>"1 Q VI G X (lllll(Xl 9SQ I-'q vq X dl dOcIl utJolo . - . 9fi9 WA. V Ul lo V cl 11110 LI let 1 It) 220 X dllllltlO X1.C1U, 9^Q Paracentral ZOO v y o uci o . 220 r fl 1 XW1 ^"m P X diiiiiuiiit; , , , Pa va PPT^ 11Q1 n a X dl dL/C Ulldl U.& ... 9fi^ zuo 220 Pali'^afion X <XV\J(X\j1.\J\.Y • . . 9^Q Pa va p n 1 nvn n Pn r\\ X dldUllUJl UliCliL'i • * 9fiS OzolvGl'itG u Palpebral Paracholia ZDO wZiOlltJ ... 220 X diptJUldtlUll . 9SQ I-'q vq r* ri r^vrl q 1 XdldL.llUIU.dl VyZfL'llL'HJl ill . " 220 Pfl 1 TIP nvi T"l P X <X1 Ut/»J1 lllC . , I-'Q va p n vfM^t't Q X dl dL/Ill (Jllld . 9fi^ Zi'-JllL/lllC LCI . • 220 l^fl 11~H 'I'Q 1"! ATI X d-lUiUdUlUll . , . 9^q ra va P n votyi a ril Pnai n X dl o-Ulll uoiclLU Ulc Uold . \JZjKJLi\JaL \J Uc 220 pfl 1 X dloV . . . . 9^0 X dldL-IllUHlduOUSld . . ZDO V//j'_'o uWlllicl • • 220 X <aiLlU,lolll X dldL/lllL/llJdL/Uolo . I-'q xw xw n 1 Tr^vi~t*i X <aiiii ijiiiiiui 111 . . . 94-0 Ma va pnl nn Tsa pi Mn a X dldOVJlUll XldL/lllU-O . . X CH^UlliVyllltlll .l-»L/CA.lwO • 220 XdllllJlcgld 94.0 r a va pr^lTii 'fiQ X dl dL-Wi Lli ulo . , . 9fiS XdOIlV- xdll- . . . , 9An l-'O vo n/~»T^fi X didoope ZDO T-*P pVlVfll^ TV X tn^ii y t*ii.i. y . • 220 Mfi n Q PPQ X dliCtL-Cd .... 94.0 Pa Ta po'l'n 263 T^ii r*!"! vHl pnli a von ± (xoii y uic ijiirti 'jii • 220 Pfl Tl Q H Q X dlldvid .... 94.0 r a va pon Gi a X dldOUUold . . • 9fi^ |Jo r« rtTritonh51 \'\T X clL 11Y Cc UllcLl V 220 Panaris . . , . 94.0 l-^O VQ />! 1 CJ 1 CJ \A/ 1 1 1 OCIl 1 XdldOLlolG VV lllOCill 9fi'^ zuo T-^Q r»l"» T7ri Q (T^" 1 X clullY*^A"'^L'J • ^ V/ PanartHritis 9 AO X drdCy a LI LIS . , 9fi^ ZDO X dCllyU-cl llllct . . ^ -J Vy Panax . . , . 9An I-'Q vo W 1 1"! C3 xdi dueiiiuio . , ZDO X dOll y iiUJoo Lio . • 220 Pin l^ll^OQ'i" Xdll OiUScb 910 I-'Q VQ H 1 1 a X dl dLllLl y Uilo . . ■ zuo X d,C 11Y U11"'ijlAU UO 990 Pancreas, Physiology of . 9An l-'O vo r\ i~i'vi no 1 X dldQOAXOdl . . 9R^ ZDO X dCll Y AltCllllOi . - 990 Pancreas, Diseases of 94-P> I-'Q VO ri n r\r\ r\\~\ o 1 X diduLiuu-eiidi. . 9fi^ zoo Pacliylosis Pancreatic Solution 9K1 Parsesthesia zoo X do 11 y 111 fci 11111^1 tio 990 Pancreation 9R1 ZO1 l-^Q VQ TTl n X drdiiiii .... zuo T*i^ pli vtivn n VI f,1 s X caiKjIl y o y v i uio • 221 r 51 np VPSl i"Tt"ic; X OillOl C/d ui Ulo . . . 9fi1 U X Pa fafloppiihTii X dl CtlUJi^L. HI Llo , I * 264 xdCinidii oorpuooica 991 Pandemic 9ft1 Paraform 9^4. ZD^ Pont Pr»lrl xdCKj L^OIU. 991 Pander's Layer 9R1 Paragangline . . XdCK, XlOU 991 Pangenesis 9fi1 ZO1 Paragensia 9(54. 991 Panhysterectomy 9R1 ZO 1 l-^ovori'lj^l"\ii lin X dldglOUUllll , , . 9fi4. xdCKj ivxusi/aiLi 991 Panhystero-Colpectomy . OKI ZD 1 Paraglobulinuria ZD^ 221 Ms Tn fi Vi~iwi a X ojHILIIUoIo . . 9fi1 Pa va o'Am nh o^^i X dl d^wlll^^ llvJOio • • 264 Pad 221 Pft n 1 (t n q X dill VTlldU 9fi1 —/U X r a ra ora nliia X dl dc^ X d IJ 11 Id ... 264 X dgcllLlb 991 . X Panmixia ZD i I-' 11 "T"O (~Vn.TT7 1 /to xdidyiidv i ed Xd^tJ & X/ioCclBC; . 221 Panniculus 9fi1 ZD X T"^Q va Vi T7"nn l c; X didiiy uinjoio . . ■ 264 PQrr£i4"'G l^lQPflQP X dgtJu o X/loC(loC 221 Pannns .... 9fi1 -jD X PavairPva^TiQi^j X didii.cidLUoio ■ ( • 264 PqiI *^'\T»i1'PTY^ X dll O y o Lcill . • 221 X diiupiiouid . . , 9fi1 -jD X r a va li'lTl PQIQ X dl dli-lllC^Oio . * • 264 Pain 991 Panophthalmitis 9fi1 ZO i l-'ovo lo MO X ardidiid . Pt^inc! A ffiPV X CllllOj Xil ucx . • 221 XdllUULlL oLdllllllg . • 262 Pa valainnpi^i X dl dldLll L/l3lO ( • * 264 Pq ina T ,tiV^r\n v X dlLlO) UotUyji-lL 221 Panosteitis . . . 9fi9 Pa va 1M p n ■xrn p xdidiixtuiiyuc ■ . • 264 xaint 991 Panotitis 9(59 ZDZ l-'ovo 1 ^i"rAV/^C''i7 X drdiepi oov . . • 9fi4 Pu ivi'I'Pv'q (;o1ip X diiiut;i o V/'vjiiv-' • 221 X diiGpiiYiUmo^iduii . 9fi9 Pa va 1 PVPTiT a X diX dl^l t^lJJd ... 264 X dill to 991 Panticosa 9fi9 Pq vq 1 p VI a X dXdlCAXd • ■ • 264 XdldUc . . 999 Pantophobia . 9fi9 Pq va 1 rvPGi Q X dldit'Cold . > 264 iiiidtouiy 999 Panus . . . . 9^? 9 Paralgia npft Paiafp V^lClL X cLlO/vV • 99 S Papain . . . , 9fi9 Ma VQ 11 a V X dl dlldA . . > 264 Tn m vi P»^ X11 1 Lll • . 229 Papaverina . , , Pa va 1 OCTia X dXdl*_r^ld • • . 264 1^1 aoQ QPQ XylOCdoCO . ■ 990 Papaver Somniferum 9fi9 Mo va 1 T7Q1 Q X dldl y oio • . 265 X lllllUUl . 9^1 Papayotin 9(^9 ^1-vO CJT"! P oUdoulO . • . 268 T-Tq vp-T ii "n XidlC J-JIJJ ■ 233 X apuia , . , . TTlappif] X XdUl^lvX • • 288 P'l 1 ii tinp X dldUlllC . ■ 238 xdpuiary AVith Atrnnbv of »» 1 Ljx xxux'jk/iJ.y v-i Paldtinoids . . 9^8 Papillectomy . 9^?9 IVlUoClco 9Q^ XdldbU- . • . 9^S Papillitis 9R9 WlfVl T^VPTTinV CiY > V 1 ull X X ClllVJl \Ji- PaUitoglossus . . 238 Pa xwllr^mci 262 Ataxy . 310 Palatopharyngeus . . 238 Papule . . . . 262 Functional 324 Palatoschisis . . 238 Paquelin Cautery . 262 Paralysis Agitans . 329 Palermo. . 238 Para- . . . . 262 Paralysis, Bell's 329 Palfyn's Forceps . 238 Para-An sesthesia 262 Paralysis, Bulbar . 329 Palingenesis . . 238 Parabanic Acid 262 Paralysis, Cruveilhier's . 329577 INDEX PAGE I'AQK PAGE Paralysis, Erb's 329 Paratyphoid . 362 Patch . 369 Paralysis, Infantile 329 Paratypical 362 Patella . 369 Paralysis, Insanity associ- Paravaginitis . 362 Patellar Reflex 369 ated with . 329 Paravesical 362 Patent . 369 Paralysis, Klumpke's Paralysis, Landry's. Paralysis, Little's . 331 Paraxial.... 362 Pathema 369 331 Parchment Crackling- 362 Pathetic 369 331 Paregoric 362 Pathetism 369 Paramastitis . 331 Pareirte Radix 363 Patho- . 369 Paramastoid Process 331 Parencephalon 363 Pathogenesis . 369 Paramedial Sulcus . 331 Parenchymatous 363 Pathognomonic 369 Paramenia 332 Parepididymis 363 Pathology 369 Parametritis . 332 Parepithymia 363 Patient . 369 Parametritis Chronica Parerethisis 363 Paul's Sign 369 Atrophicans 332 Paresis .... 363 Pavilion . 369 Paramimia 332 Pareunia 363 Pavitation 369 Paramnesia 332 Parietal .... 363 Pavor Nocturnus . 369 Paramusia 332 Parieto- .... 363 Pavy's Disease 369 Paramyoclonus Multiplex 332 Parillin .... 363 Pawlik's Folds 369 Paramyosinogen 332 Parinaud's Conjunctivitis 363 Paxton's Disease 369 Paramyotonia Congenita. 332 Parinaud's Ophthalmo- Pearl 370 Paranephritis . 332 plegia Paris' Disease. 363 Peas 370 Paranephros . 332 363 Peat Baths 370 Paraneurismus 332 Paris Green . 363 Pebrine . 370 Paranoia 332 Paristhmic 363 Pecquet's Duct 370 Paranuclein . 335 Parity .... 363 Pectineus Muscle . 370 Paranucleon . 335 Parkinson's Disease 363 Pectoral. 370 Paranucleus . 335 Parodontitis . . . 363 Pectoralis Muscle . 370 Paraparesis 335 Paroenia 363 Pectoriloquy . 370 Parapathia 335 Paroniria 363 Pederasty 370 Paraphasia 335 Paronychia 363 Pediatrics 370 Paraph ia 335 Paroophoron . 363 Pedicle . 370 Paraphimosis . 335 Parophobia 363 Pediculophobia 370 Paraphonia 336 Paropsis 363 Pediculosis 370 Paraphora 336 Parosmia 363 Pediculus 374 Paraphrasia . 336 Parotic .... 363 Pedicure 374 Paraphrenesis 336 Parotid Gland, Disorders Peduncle 374 Paraphrenitis. 336 of ... . 363 Peenash . 374 Paraphrosyne Calentura . 336 Parotitis 368 Pelada . 374 Paraplasm 336 Parovarium . 368 Pelias 374 Paraplegia 336 Paroxysmal 368 Pelagin . 374 " Paraplegic Flasque " 336 Parrish's Food 368 Pelioma . 374 Parapleuritis . 336 Parrot's Disease 368 Peliosis Rheumatica 374 Parapophysis . 336 Parrot's Nodes 368 Pellagra 374 Paraproctitis . 336 Parrot's Sign . 368 Pelletierine 378 Parapsis 336 Parrot's Ulcer 368 Pelotherapy . 378 Parapsoriasis . 336 Parry's Disease 368 Pelvic 378 Pararectal Fossa 336 Pars .... 368 Pelvimetry 378 Pararthria 336 Parthenogenesis Partridge's Hernia . 368 Pelvis 378 Parasigmatism 336 368 Pelvis — Perineum and Parasinoidal Sinuses 336 Parturient 368 Pelvic Floor 378 Parasites 336 Parturition 368 Pelvis—Diseases of Cellu- Parasiticide . 362 Partus .... 368 lar Tissue and Perito- Parasitology . 362 Passage 368 neum . 388 " Parasol" Insertion 362 Passenger 368 Pelvis—Hsematocele and Parasternal 362 Passio or Passion . 369 Hsematoma 391 Parasynovitis . 362 Passugg .... 369 Pelvotomy^ . 393 Parasyphilis . 362 Paste .... 369 Pelycotomy . Pelzer's Method 393 Parathyroid . 362 Pasteurisation 369 393 Paratonia 362 Pasteur's Treatment or Pemphigoid . 393 Paratrichosis . 362 Pasteurism . 369 Pemphigus 393 Paratuberculosis 362 Pastille .... 369 Pendeloques . 397 Paratyphlitis . 362 Patagiimi 369 Pendulous Abdomen 397 VOL. VII 37INDEX 578 PAGE PAQB PAOE Penicillium 397 Perimysium . 411 Peropus.... 439 Penis, Surgical Affections Perineal.... 411 Perosomus 439 of ... . 397 Perineo-.... 411 Peroxide of Hydrogen 439 Penjdeh Sore . 397 Perineorrhapliy 411 Persecution-Delusions 439 Pennyroyal, Oil of . 399 Perinephritis . 411 Personality 439 Pental .... 399 Perineum 411 Perspiration . 439 Pentane.... 399 Perineurium . 412 Perturbation . 439 Pentastomum 399 Perinuclear 412 Pertussin ... 439 Pentose .... 399 Periocular 412 Pertussis 439 Pentosuria 399 Period .... 412 Peru, Balsam of 439 "Pepana" .399 Periodicity 412 Peruvian Bark 439 Pepo .... 399 Periodontitis . 412 Perversion 439 Pepper .... 399 Periodoscope . 412 Pervigilium 439 Peppermint . 399 Perionychia . 412 Pes Anserinus 439 Pepsin .... 400 Perioophoritis 412 Pes Cavus 440 Pepsinogen 400 Periosteal 412 Pes Hippocampi 440 Peptic .... 400 Periosteum 412 Pes Planus 440 Peptides 400 Periostitis 412 Pessaries 440 Peptogenic 400 Peripheral 412 Pessus .... 440 Peptomangan 400 Periphlebitis . 412 Pesta Magna . 440 Peptonsemia . 400 Periplast 412 Pestis .... 440 Peptones 400 Periproctitis . 412 Pestis Minor . 440 Peptonisation . 400 Periprostatitis 412 Petechise 440 Peptonised Foods . 400 Perisalpingitis 412 Petechial Fever 440 Peptonuria 400 Peristalsis 412 Peters' Ovum . 440 Peptotoxine . 400 Perisystole 412 Petit, Canal of 440 Per- .... 400 Perithecium . 412 Petit, Hernia of 440 Peracidity 400 Perithelioma . 412 Petit Mai 440 Percentage Feeding 400 Peritomy 412 Petrifaction of Foetus 440 Perception 400 Peritoneal or Peritoneo- . 412 Petrissage 440 Percolation 400 Peritoneum, Anatomy, Petri's Sand Filter . 440 Percussion 400 Physiology, and Path- Petro- .... 440 Perforated Space 401 ology of . . . 413 Petroleum 440 Perforating Artery. 401 Peritoneum—Acute Peri- Pettenkofer's Test . 440 Perforating Ulcer . 401 tonitis 421 Pettenkofer's Theory 440 Perforation 401 Peritoneum—Tuberculous Peyer's Glands 440 Perforator 401 Peritonitis . 431 PfeifFer's Bacillus . 441 Peri- .... 401 Peritoneum—Tumours . 435 Pfeiffer Phenomenon 441 Periarteritis . 401 Peritonism 438 Pfliiger s Law. 441 Periarthritis . 401 Peritonitis 438 Phaco- or Phako- 441 Periblepsis 401 Peritonsillitis . 438 Phacoscopy 441 Pericarditis 401 Perityphlitis . 438 Phajnozygous . 441 Pericardium, Diseases of 401 Periureteritis . 438 Phagedsena 441 Pericementitis 411 Periurethritis. 438 Phagocytes 441 Perichondritis 411 Perivaginitis . 439 Phagocytosis . 441 Perichondrium 411 Perixenitis 439 Phagolysis 441 Pericolitis 411 Perkinism 439 Phagomania . 441 Pericolpitis 411 Perkins' System 439 Phalanges 441 Pericowperitis 411 Perleche 439 Phallus .... 441 Pericranium . 411 Perles .... 439 Phantasm 441 Pericystitis 411 Perlsucht 439 Phantasmoscopia 441 Peridesmium . . . 411 Permanganate 439 Phantom 441 Perididymis . 411 Pernicious 439 Phantom Tumour . 441 Perencephalitis 411 Pernio .... 439 Pharbitis Nil . 441 Perienteritis . 411 Perniosis 439 Pharmaceutic or Pharma- Perigastritis . 411 Pernoctation . 439 ceutical 441 Perihepatitis . 411 Perobrachia . 439 Pharmaco- 441 Perilymph 411 Perocephalus . 439 Pharmacodynamics. 441 Perimastitis . 411 Perocormus 439 Pharmacognosy 441 Perimeter 411 Perodactyly . 439 Pharmacology 441 Perimetritis . 411 Peromely 439 Pharmacomania 460 Perimyelitis . 411 Peroneal 439 Pharmacopoeia 460INDEX 579 PAGE PAGE PAGE Pharmacy 460 Phlebo- . . . . 476 Phosphurets . 478 Pharyngeal 460 Phleboliths . 476 Phossy Jaw . 478 Pharyngectomy 460 Phlebosclerosis 476 Photo- .... 478 Pharyngismus 460 Phlebothrombosis . 476 Photogene 478 Pharyngitis 460 Phlebotomy . 476 Photogenic 478 Pharyngocele . 460 Phledonia 476 Photomania . 478 Pharyngolaryngitis. 460 Phlegm . . . . 476 Photometer 478 Pharyngomycosis . 460 Phlegmasia 476 Photophobia . 478 Pharyngotomy 460 Phlegmasia Alba Dolens . 476 Photopsia 478 Pharyngoxerosis 460 Phlegmon 476 Phototaxis 478 Pharynx 460 Phlegmonous . 476 Phototherapy . 478 Examination . 461 Phlogosis 477 Phrenalgia 478 Acute Inflammation . 465 Phloridzin 477 Phrenic Nerve 478 Chronic Inflamma- Phloro- or Phlor- 477 Phrenitis 479 tion 468 Phlyctena 477 Phreno- .... 479 Chronic Infective Phobia . . . . 477 Phrenosin 479 Diseases 472 Phocas' Disease 477 Phronemophobia 479 Retropharyngeal Ab- Phocomelus . 477 Phthalic 479 scess . 474 Phonation 477 Phthiriasis 479 Phelps' Operation . 475 Phonautograph 477 Phthisis.... 479 Phenacetin 475 Phonendoscope 477 Phycomycetes 479 Phenalgene 475 Phonic Spasm 477 Phylaxins 479 Phenalgin 475 Phono- .... 477 Phylogenesis . 479 Phenatol . . 475 Phonophobia . 477 Phyma .... 479 Phenazonum . 475 Phosgene 477 Phymosis 479 Phenetidine . 476 Phosphates 477 Physic .... 479 PhenocoU 476 Phosphatic 477 Physical 479 Phenol .... 476 Phosphaturia . 477 Physio- .... 479 Phenomenon . 476 Phosphenes 477 Physiognomy . 479 Phenyl .... 476 Phosphides 477 Physiology — Part I. Phenylhydrazine 476 Phosphines . . 477 Tissues and Neuro- Philippine Itch 476 Phosphites 477 muscular Mechanism . 487 Philoenia 476 Phospho- 477 Protoplasm 488 Philomimesia . 11 0 Phosphonium . /i 7*7 Poll ueu Philtrum 476 Phosphoric Acid 478 Tissues . 495 Phimosis 476 Phosphorism . 478 Vegetative Tissues 495 Phlebectasis . 476 Phosphorous Acid . 478 Master Tissues 501 Phlebectomy . 476 Phosphoruria . 478 Neuro-muscular Phlebitis 476 Phosphorus 478 Mechanism 521 END OP VOL. VII PRINTED BY NKILL AND CO., LTD., EDINBUKOH. \ OT.ASG0W IGLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARY