6 A N s ABSTRAC T o J? A COURSE of LECTURES I 6 N | ' /I Anatomy and Phyfiology* AS DELIVERED By A PROFESSOR of ANATOMY, in London. • UT AGER SIT, SINE CULTURA, % SIC ANIMUS, ABSQUE DOCTRINA. CICERO. LONDON: Printed for the Author, and fold by P. Brett, No. 5?or, oppofite St. Clement's Church, in the Strand. M.DCC.LXXXIV.* ■: a ,i 2 a /' ■i * O , - t ■ ■ > ■ • . • - - •. . . . i A , * ' / * . > . ■ . ' ' " • * \ • * *v' ' • ! ' N X . . . ! . . • . . . •' I ' ‘ ■ \ .JOHN SHELDON Esq, F. R. S. ... Professor of Anatomy, ip the - • ^i,i “ ‘ . .... Royal Academy, AND t- - < i • • LiUSg .Jv' .Ti Y'JliJ 1 Reader on Anatomy, in London. 7. i - v . • r A .EIUj SIR, TH E diftinguifhed eminence you hold in your profeffi- on, had I no other motive, would induce me to court your protection, to this, my firlt per- formance. Your candour will, I trull, ex- cufe me in making the attempt, prompted by a wilh, of prov- ing in fome degree ufeful, to the gentlemen, Students \n Anatomy. a 2 At * u tXV Dedication. At the fame time, I embrace this opportunity, thus publicly to acknowledge the advantages, I have received, in this molt eflential part of my profeflion, from the inftrucr tions, and many improvements, - fuggefted in your leftures. A de- fire that they may be generally known and frequented, has princi- pally influenced, the dedication of this. May your future labours, be crowned with the fuccefs, your preeminent talents deferve, is the >vifh of, Sir, With refpe£l and gratitude. Your obliged, Idumble Servant, London, Sef. 15,1784, The Author*P R E F ACE. ... '* > - . .n . iBb i t • t • «<•••• * c\ -• % i . . >r j *u r)n j IT may be necefTary to apologize, for intruding on the public, a perform* ance of this kind, when there are fo ma- ny excellent books already extant, on e- very part of anatomy, and phyfiology. The motives, however, that influenc- ed the author to the publication of this, are fuch as will always give him plea- fure, in whatever manner it may be re- ceived by the world. To obviate a praflice, fo univerfally detrimental, of thofe gentlemen taking notes, who perhaps cannot afford them* {elves time, to attend more t,han two cours- es, mufl evidently be attended with ad- vantages, if it ean be accomplifhed. Theyi PREFACE. \ i The late Mr. Falconar was fo fenfible pf this, that he publifhed a fynopfis of his leftures, but it contained fcarce more, than the heads of the fubjefts, pf which he was to treat; of courfe, fo dry and unentertaining, as not to be read over, either previous to attending lectures, or after. The arrangement of the le&ures, now delivered, added to the preceding circumftances, has rendered that perform- ance, almoft totally neglected. How far the prefent may anfwer, the candid pub- lic mult judge. The author has attended repeated courf- es, the accuracy of his notes are now put to -the teft ; not but that fome of the opinions advanced in it, and fome of the inferences drawn from them, are his own, and others are borrowed from authors of refpeftability ; though in a work of this kind, which is intended to be as near the delivery of the profclfor, as it well can, it was not thought necef- fary to mark the quotations. In arranging the matter, unalTifled by any perfon, the author has endeavoured to be as clear, apd concife, as pollible. The dedication, and the w’ork, are both entirely unknown, to the gentleman to whom' . J Vll PREFACE. whom it is infcribed. The motives that induced them, have been already menti- oned. Should it anfwer the end propofed, the author will feel himfelf amply repaid his trouble, and intends completing the work, in two other fe&ions. If on the contrary, it meets negleft, and contempt, he will fubfcribe to the opinion of the public, not doubting it’s juftnefs, nor lamenting his fate, amongft thofe, who have endeavoured, though un- fuccefsfully, to contribute to the public weal, hoping it may be undertaken by an abler hand.I E R rata. Page 11, line 20, for by read into for into read of 48, 20, dele s in arifes 49> 27, for left read right 53* 12, read vafa 66. 18, dele and conglomerate • 67, 27, for 1662 read 1627 96, 23, for condulos read kondulos •V OO O r*1 18, confider They as beginning a freth paragraph tog, 27, for expfoure read expofure N. B. The greek words are printed in Italics, as they are pronounced. There are a few literary errors, and faults in the pundtuation, which the candid reader will excufe. /V lectures ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY. F" ^ ■*[ and temno, diileco, and limply k.j^ k.^ fignifies a feftion or divifiori of any bodies into their conftituent parts.- It having been found, that vegetables have organs, as well difpofed as animals. It is divided into two kinds. Anatomy properly fo called ; and which gives the hiflory of the human body : 6 N The Hijiory of Anatomy. And, Comparative anatomy ; which gives the hiltory of other animals, and alfo vege- tables. A2 me Hist^_.v oj Anatomy. The term is now generally underflood to fignify, a knowledge of the flru&ure of the human body. To ftudy this art, we are to confider it from it’s beginning; and alfo to enquire after thole men, who are diftinguifhed in it. For thefe purpofes, Monf. Portal’s Hiftorie Anatomie, in 7 vol. and the late Baron Haller’s Bibliotheca Anatomica, may be read with advantage. As the antiquity of a fcience, contri- butes in no fmall degree, to it’s import- ance in the world; fo teachers always wifh to trace their’s as far back as pofli- ble: to this we are now to proceed. The Antients knew but very little of it, and the greateff improvements and difcoveries, have been made in the pre- fent century. The fons of AHculapius were totally ignorant of it. The grecian phyficians firfl paved the way to it’s knowledge, but to Hippocra- tes are we chiefly indebted, for his divi- fion of phyfic and anatomy: in which latter he feems to have had fome know- ledge, but was certainly in feveral errors ; confounding arteries and veins, and nerves andThe History of Anatomy. 3 and tendons. He was not acquainted with the circulation, nor the animal (eco- nomy. A few years before Chrift, Plato and Ariftotle cultivated anatomy as a fcience. The latter of thefe, was the firfl who illuftrated his defcriptions by figures, the importance of which, is too obvious to need any comment. We are but little acquainted with the eaftern knowledge of anatomy. The two Ptolemys founded a college for the ftu- dy of it in Alexandria. In Galen’s works we find, that Hero- philus and Erafiftratus were cotempora- ries and were both men of (kill and emi- nence in their time. We are unacquainted with the roman knowledge : but the word, medicus, we remember to have heard in roman hifto- ry ; and that thofe men who praftifed it were flaves, not freemen. Anatomy was not praHifed there till after Thrift. Cel- fus fpeaks of feveral anatomifts, and re- commends the fludy of the art. Galen is fuppofed to have known the aflion of the heart, the mufcles, to have undcrfiood the manner of the voice, and the life of the valves of the heart; and A 2, his4 The History of Anatomy. his obfervations on the pulfe, may yet be read with advantage. He divided the aneurifm into two kinds, true, and falfe : Jiis fyftem was adopted for a period of 1200 years, but hjs opinions are founded on hypothecs. In the twelfth century, by a decree of Phi)ip of Spain, no perfon was fuffered to praHife phyfic, but who had ftudied anatpmy. In the fourteenth century, printing was difco vered. In the fifteenth century, Vefalius was bqrn at Brufiels. He was profelfor of gnatomy at Padua, and was the firft who gave names to the mufcles. Fallopius was a cotemporary, and made ieveral difcoveries. Euftachius alfq flourifhed at that time, and his tables were more accurate than any of the others. In the fixteenth century, feveral difco- veries were made. Aflelius obferved the laHeals, and was convinced they took up the nutritive parts of the food ; he alfo named them. Imperfefl mention is made of them by Hippocrates and Herophilus. Dr. Harvey, phyfician to King Charles the firfi, difcovered the circulation of the bloodThe History of Anatomy. 5 blood. He was fucceeded by Fabricius, and others Vanderlinden attempted to prove. Hip- • pocrates underltood the circulation; but it is certain he did not, as he compared the blood circulating in the body to a circle, and paid no regard to the pulfe, Galen was never mentioned as an op- ponent, though he came nearer the truth. Erafiftratus made feveral difcoveries, but he thought, when the blood went into the arteries, a fever enfued. Vefalius has fome prctenfions to the difcovery, but, beyond all doubt, to Dr. Harvey we are indebted, for the difcove- ry of the motion of the blood. The pancreatic du£t was difcovered a- bout thirty years after, by Wirtfungius. And about the. fame time, the thora- cic duft was difcovered by Pecquet. Ruyfch flourifhed about the fame time, and made feveral ufeful difcoveries. The Royal Society of London, fir!} introduced medicine amongfl them. Dr. Lower attempted to ufe the blood of one animal for that of another; but this was difcovered by Abafius, Ip large hemorrhages of the uterus, &c. this jnight be ferviceable 5 but this doHrine tyas6 The History of Anatomy. was haftily taken up, and as haftily laid afide. We now come to confider the hate of the fcience in different countries. In Italy, Malpighi was much celebrat- ed, and firft ufed the microfcope; but at prefent, it is on the decline there. In Switzerland there is but little done. In France, Riolans method was a- dopted, and focieties eftablifhed. Winf- low, a dane, was the principal writer there. In Germany, till lately, little was done: but the number and value of their works, is now, greater than that of any other country. The mo ft celebrated german profeffors are, the late Dr. Heifter, the late and prefent profeflor Meckel, Scarpa, and others. Amongft them, Liberkuin; who firft difcovered the origin of the Iaftc- als, the valve of the colon, and it’s ule: vide his works publilhed by Sheldon. The late Baron Haller improved the fcience, more than any man of his time. In Holland, there were many excel- lent authors. Bidloo compofed an ori- ginal work; and the great work of Al- ,*'"!US7 The History of Anatomy. j binus is unrivalled. In England, GlilFon, Cowper, and ma- ny others have diftinguilhed themfelves: amongft them, the late celebrated Dr. Hunter, and Mr. Hewfon. But here, in- genious experiments on the animal ceco- nomy, are more cultivated, thpn anato- mical defcriptior?s. It has always been cuflomary for the profeffors of anatomy, to mention the bell authors, on the different parts of the fcience, and they are allowed to be the following. Ch^felde^^ } Win{l°w as a dictionary. Heifler’s Compendium of anatomy. Leber preleCtiones anatomica?. Albinus’s edition of Euflachius’s tables. Bidloo’s tables by Cowper. Chefelden’s folio with"] Zinn’s plates ; ( 0n ofteoWy. Monro, and I Albinus, J Weitbrecht on ligaments and cartila- lages. - Nefbit on cartilages. Douglas, and Monro’s edit, oflnnes, On the mufcles. Senac /8 The History of Anatom/; Senac on the heart. Haller on the arteries. Winllow on the veins. Rudbec’s, 1 Bartholin’s IWorks^ Nuck’s, I Monro, "1 Hewfon, l On the abforbentsi Sheldon, Euftachi{is,"| Meckeh I _ .. Nabore, /0n fhe nerves- Monro, - * 7 Haller’s elementa phyfiologica, with Malpighi and Ruyfch’s tables, to ftudy the different organs. Du Verney on the ear Zinn on the eve. Morgagni de caufa et fede morborum. Dr. Needham on the peculiarities of the fcetus. Dr. Nicholls’S anima medica. The bell authors for comparitive ana- tomy, are Linnaeus, Blafius, Swammer- dam, Du Buffon, and Monro. For furgery ; Heifler; Le Dran, Pott, Bromheld, Warner, Sharp, Aitken, Bell the London Medical Obfervations, and Edinburgh Medical' Effays.' OfOf the Properties of Animals and Vege- tables. BEFORE giving the general hifto- ry of the fluids, it is neceflary td mention, the properties by which animals are diftinguifhed from vegetable bodies. And firft then, Animals are diftinguifhed from vege- tables, by having volition : to wit, a will, or locomotive power; Alfo in having a flomach. In animals^ the food is taken in by the mouth, i£ mafticated by the teeth and jaws, and is conveyed into the * flomach ; where it undergoes the procefs of digeftion, and is converted into the animal fluids, which are taken up by the abforbent fyftemu Vegetables have no flomach, nor pro- cefs of digeftion. Their nourifhmenf is" immediately converted into the efleriti- * The gaftric juice is analogous to the runnef, and is the principal menftruum in digeftion which procefs is completed in the ft’omacH, and' inteftinal canal; the pylorus retaining the ali- ment and juices, in the ftomach. The pancreatic juice, is nearly analogous to the faliva ; the particular properties of it, a1 res' tiiiknown, & am10 The Properties of Animals &c* um animale, without going through any procefs. Animals have organs of fenfe, to be enabled to diftinguifh different obje&s, and to move from place to place. Animals are made up of folids and fluids: the firft continually wafting, the other fupplying the wafte. So if the fo- lids are wafted in a greater degree (ei- ther by difeafe, or any other caufe) than the fluids can recruit, an atrophy is pro- duced. And if the fluids are increafed, in greater proportion than they are uf- ed, an increafe of bulk is produced. There are two kinds of power neceff fary for life. Refpiration, and Circulation. The firft, is a mixed involuntary pott- er. The fecond, is a natural motion of the fluids, of all living, bodies, eonftantly irf a&ion. They are both proper to animals and vegetables, and when they are extinfr, death enfues. For example, if you tie a vegetable, or place it in the exhauft- ed receiver of au airpump, it will die.- Genera l11 General Obfervations on the Fluids, E now come to confider the a- nimal fluids. The Jluids are of three kindsviz. chyle, blood, and Je* creted Jluids. There are alio, two kinds of excrementitious fluids*, urine, and per* fpirationt Chyle, is made in the Jlomach, and fmall intejtines; it is abforbed by the ladteals, (which originate from the Jlo- mach, and villous coat oj the intejtines) into which it enters, by capillary attract tion, and the valves prevent it’s retro* grade motion: it paffes on the *mejen-* tery, into the + receptaculum chyli; from thence, through the thoracic dudl, into the veins; and through the right fide of the heart, into the lungs. There the red blood is made, which is carried back by the left fide into the heart; and by the aortai circulated in the arteries * Mefenterium, mefentery from the greek word inejosmiddle,and enteron intcftine. It is a duplicature of the peritonaeum ; it prevents the inteftines from twitting, and keeps them in their proper places, f This receptacle is not always to be found. B 2 . through12 Observations on the Fluids. through the body : the veins return that pot ufed for nutrition. The fuperior ca- va returns all the blood, circulated above the diaphragm ; the inferior cava returns all, circulated below the diaphragm, in- to the right auricle of the heart. On the Blood. B LOOD is given to all animals, for the purpofes of nutrition, vivi- fication, and fecretion When circulat- ing in, or flowing from an animal, it appears * homogeneous; but it is not fo. The fifft thing we obferve after it is ta- ken away, is coagulation. When expofed to the air, it feparates fpontaneoufly in- to two parts: viz. f ferum, or watery fluid; and J craflamentum, the red cake, or cruor, which is compofed of the cp- agulable lymph, and red particles. Thefe are called, the eflential parts of .. «> j ,1.1 * Homogeneous, from the greek words omos fimilis ; and genos genus, having the fame nature and principles. f Serum, fo called from its fimilarity to whey. ± The crairamentum finks in the ferum, but fometimes fwims from the furface, becoming dry. theOn the Blood. *3 the Blood. The colour of the blood in man, qua- drupeds, birds, filh, and the amphibia, is red; in fome infeQs, green; in water in feits, colourlels and tranfparent. Salt to the talle, of a gummy nature, readjly mixing with water; does not appear fa, ponaceous, or oily. It’s fpecific gravity by Boyle By Dr. Turin t le i pec me gravity is alfo much greater m health, than difeafe. It differs in different animals, and in animals of the fame elafs, from various circumhances; as health, difeafe, &c. We proceed to fpeak of the parties a/ ProPerties> of the component parts of the blood: and firft. Of the red particles, commonly, but imr properly called, the red globules. Thele ^re more numerous in proportion to the perfection, and health of an animal in the lower dalles of animals, they are few; ey give the*colour to the blood. Their fize h»veDverf hZ ^ "'h'n V,e"'ed ^ l!*I y ittle colour ; and that the colour a! J?P”r5 of a dark’ °r bright «d, accord-On the Blood, U fize in different animals is different; they are largefl in a fkate, larger in man than an ox. In an human body, the 3240th of an inch, when laid in a longitudinal direftion. Their fhape in the human body, flat and round, like a piece of money ; in fome animals, oblong, or el- liptical. Each particle is a compound, folid body, flat and round, confining of two parts : viz. a fmall folid particle, called the central particle; and an exter- nal covering, or veficle, in which the former is contained like a pea in a bladder. Blood kept till putrefied, and diluted with water, fhews with a micro- fcope, the veficles burfting, and the par- ticles rolling out. The particles may be made fpherical, by an addition of water; and, by a mixture with a folution of neu- tral fait, may be again reflored to their o- riginal flat figure. They are not more oily, faponaceous, or inflammable, than 0 ing to the number of them. Dr. Fordyce fay*, the colour is acquired in parting the lungs. When juft paft the lungs, they are fcarlet, which is a mixture of modena red, and yellpw; they hecome darker, till they get back to the lungs again ; and that the colour to pot capjtbl$ of being changed by dilution.i5 Of the Blood. the the other parts of the blood. They do not form folids, or become organized ; but are foluble in water, and other flu- ids, except the coagulable lymph and fe- rum, which is prevented by the neutral falts contained in them. Their propor- tion in a healthy man, about § of the whole mafs; more in a found ftate, than in a dropfy. They are fweet to the tafte, inodorous, and void of ftimulus; and heavieft of all the animal mucilages. The ufe of thefe particles is entirely un- known. The * coagulable lymph, whilfl: in the rourfe of the circulation, is fuppofed to be, of all other fluids, the moft fubtle. But when out of the courfe of circula- tion, or when received into a veflel, be- comes a folid, on being expofed to the air. It gives firmnefs to the craflamen- tum, from which it may be taken out by continually ftirring the blood with a flick, to1 which it adheres, and the red particles fubfide in the ferum. The coagulable lymph, when circulate frig in the body, cannot form a folid; but when out of the circulation, it forms' 4 Fibra fanguinis of Gaubius, and Malpighius; Coagulable lymph of Senac.iS Of the Blood. the large maffes in aneufifms, and p'lug$ at the extremities of divided veffels, and by that means hops haemorrhages. The * polypi, formed after death (which is frequently the cafe) are by blood left in the pulmonary artery; from which the red particles fubfide, and the Coagu- lable lymph forms a polypus. Moles, vulgarly and improperly call- ed, falfe conceptions, are formed in the uterus in a flooding, by the red parti- cles fubfiding, and the coagulable lymph adhering. In a cafe of peritonitis, the coagula- ble lymph was thrown out by the cx- halant arteries, formed a folid on the peritonaeum, and became organized. Alfo where it is thrown out from the lungs on the pleura, it adheres and be- comes organized. Few people in this climate, but have an adhefion of the pleura and lungs, in this manner. The coats of the veffels have a plaftic power, to change the mode and time of coagu- * Polypus, fronft the greek word, polus, multus, many, and pous, pes, a foot, an animal having many feet, It is here applied to a concretion of blood in the heart, or in the large arteries ndar the heart. fating.Blood. l? r t On the lating. When once it foluble, except in See. by which it’s is coagulated, it is in- flrong acids, alkalies, properties are deflroy- ed. It is alfo the nutritious part. It has a fibrous appearance, efpecial- ly when taken on a flick. The ferum, is a watery mucilaginous fluid; feparates fpontaneoufly from the crafTamentum, is divided into ferum, and ferofity ; colour in health, a blueifh yel- low ; is homogeneous, coagulates in 160 degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer, like the white of an egg, but leaves a fmail quantity of a fluid, which is called the ferofity: this is the redundant part of the blood, thrown off by the kidneys. Mixed with water on agitation, by the experiments of Mr. Hewfon, appears an opake fluid, like milk : but we could not make it appear fo. The infpiffated, or coagulated ferum, is the remains of the coagulable lymph in the ferum, not fepa- rable; or it may be effential to the ferum itfelf. It contains a neutral fait, compof- ed of ammoniacal and fea fait: the ufe of which is, to keep the red particles in their proper form. When infpiffated it C isxS On the Blood. / is foluble in water. The milk-white ferum, is owing to a reabforptioil of the fat, or animal oil. A man, who had this difeafe feveral times, was always relieved by evacuations, which is the proper method of treatment. * + Heterogeneous fubflances, are occa- fionally contained in it; as oil in the globules, and bile &c. Chemical Analyjis of the Blood. It is decompofed by heat, according to the following experiments of Haller. In 100 degrees of Farenheit’s thermo- meter, produces a fleam, with a vola- tile, fubtle, particular fmell. 200 degrees, ten ounces of blood were evaporated, and the mafs left dry. 300, produces a volatile fait, with en> pyreumatic oil; and a black coal, and yellow earth. The component parts of die blood, are Earth, ^ Air, .y * Mr. Wood, a miller, of Billericay in EfTexf Fad this complaint, and lived many years on a pudding of wheat flour and water only. f Heterogeneous from the greek words eteron altcrum, another, and gen os genus, kind. Water,On the Biooo. Water, - oa, 4 Volatile fait, £s Iron, 10 l grains in 10 ounces. This is by* the experiments of Dr. Raleigh accounted for, by ufing iron inftruments. Haller thinks iron is a condiment part of the blood, but it feems rather to be taken by the water into our bodies, in which there is always a great quan- tity. Mr. John Hunter fays, there is a i gr. of iron, in 63 oz. of ox blood, and that it is adventitious. The french chemifts fay, the blood contains more phofphoric acid, than the urine, and the bones Hill more, than the blood. In arteries, the blood is of a florid red bright colour. In veins, dark and black: the venous blood by being long expofed, looks flo- rid, which is by the phlogifton being re- moved. The venous blood contains more phlogifton than the arterious. A furgeon being fent for to a man, who had cut his throat, from feeing the blood of a dark colour, concluded it was venous, and was in hopes of faving him ; C 2 but20 On the Blood. The V *• # <•' # * ■ -v \ but he had divided the internal jugular veins, by which he bled to death. The blood, in the pulmonary artery, appears like venous blood. Vide Hewfon on the Blood. The. blood has different appearances of colour in different fubjecls. Negroes, and mulattoes, darker than white people ; and white, or european people, of different complexions, have different colours. Dr. Harvey, in his Anatomical Exer- cifeSj .fays,, the blood is a living fluid. This is afferted by Mr. John Hunter, in proof of which he fays, i ijl. It unites living parts. The coag- ulaBle lymph, thrown out by the pleura and lungs, is united; and as long as a part is " capable of being afled on, by any ffimujus, it is alive.. ' 2nelly. The power of refilling heat, and .cojd.. Taken in cold air, it raifes the thermometer, as much, as blood ta- ken in the moll fultry heat. It coagulates later, when taken in dif- eafe,’ than health. He mentions an extraordinary circum- ffance of this living power, in the tefti- c;le of a cock, introduced into a hen: it adhered, and became organized.On the Blood. 21 The blood is much thinner in inflam- mation, than in a found flate. This is not owing to obftru&ion, but to an in- creafed aftion of the veflels, by which means, the red particles, which are fpeci- ficially the heavieft part, fubfide firfl;; and then the coagulable lymph remains up- permoft, and conflitutes die buff. The blood is often found in the lym- phatics after death. «* * On the Cellular Membrane, or Subjla.nct, AL L parts of an animal body, are formed of membranes, fibres, or in- organic matter. Each of thefe are origin- ally made from the animal fluids, by fe- cretion, or fome other procefs. The fi- bres of the body, differ in their degrees of organization, and all folids are not organized. By organization, we mean circulation; and when we fay, a part is very much organized, we wifh to be un- derflood as meaning, it has nerves, muf cular fibres, and abforbent veffels, as wed as arteries and veins. The folids which compofe the body, are, the cellular membrane ; mufcular fi- bre ;22 On the Cellular Membrane. bre; adipofe membrane; ligamentous fi- bres ; *elaftic, and metallic, nervous, and bony fibres, and cartilages. We fhali firll treat of' the mofl fimple, and alfo the mofl extenfive membrane, invefting almoft all parts of the body ; and known by the name of the cellular membrane, or fubjlance The cellular membrane, or tela cellu- lofa of Haller, is made by the coagulable lymph, which is thrown out by the ex-< halant arteries. It is an elaflic fubftanee, and is found almoft univerfally, in all parts of animal bodies. Except in the fubftance of the brain, and the bones, it is always found in the largeft quanti- ties, where a confiderable degree of mo- tion is wanted: as in the articulation of the fcapula, with the os humeri; and in the os femoris, an<h ^acetabulum. ' It is the moft fimple, and leafl orga- nized fibre of the bodv; inafmuch as it is doubted by many, if it is organized. Others fay, it is organized: firft. By it’s increafing, as the other parts of the body: Secondly, If a wound is made in any * 7'he bJcod vefTels are made .of thefe. partOn the Cellular Membrane. 23 part of it, granulations (hoot from it. It certainly may have a proportion of growth, and yet not be organized; as, for example, the cuticle and nails are in- organic, but the hair may not be fo. Haller is clearly of opinion, that this membrane is inorganic. It is the common conne&ing medium, is exceeding duftile,' allowing of eafy mo- tion ; and has interflices moiflened by a fluid, called interjlicial* fluid. It readily admits fluids to pafs, from one part of the body, to another; as wa- ter, air, See. We may be fure a mortification has taken-place below any part, when air ap- pears in the cellular membrane. The matter thrown out by fpiders and filkworms, is the fame as the cellular fub- ftance of animals. This membrane, has by fome been call- ed, the reticular fubflance, or network appearance; but thefe names are now * This fluid is the coagulable lymph and fe- rum, thrown out by the exhalant arteries; and taken up by the lymphatics, it is coagulable, ex- cept in anafarcas, when it will not congulate. It is the fame as the fluid in the cavities of the thorax, pericardium &c. laid24 On the Cellular Membrane. laid afide : we mention them only, that it may be known to you, when reading authors on it. On the * Adipofe Subjlance. TH E next Tub dance we are to con- fider, is a large gland of the con- globate, or lymphatic kind, filling all the vacant fpaces of the body, and ufually called the adipofe membrane ; a name ve- ry improper, being evidently glandular. It is formed of fmall f cells, which have no communication with each other. Each cell is furrounded by a network of arteries and veins. It is wanting in the ferotum, eyelids, penis, intejlines, and lungs : but there is a large quantity contained between the duplicature of the peritonaeum, on the folds of the mefentery and omentum, on the heart, in the orbits of the eyes, in the interjliccs of the mufclcs, and in the ex- ternal parts of the body. i * Adipofe, from adeps, fat, the apparatus in which the fat is contained. + Cell, a fmall bag or bladder. InOn the Adipose Substance. 25 In old animals, it is generally in the interior parts of the body ; in young ones, in the exteriors. It appears like the rows in fifh, hav- ing veficles, for the purpofes of con- taining the animal oil, which is fecreted by the exhalant arteries, from that part of the chyle not immediately wanted, and taken up in the form of oil, by. abforp- tion. ' It is fluid when the animal is living' and is contained in molliculi: this ap- pearance may be very beautifully feen, in the mefentery of a kitten. It’s principal ufe appears to be, as a rcfervoir of nourifhment, as in the cafe of animals, who live a long time dormant; thefe being fupported by an abforption of the animal oil. In afcites, or ana- fareas, the whole fat is reabforbed : thefe are the only difeafes, which entirely de- ffroy it. The pthifis puhnonalis, does not fo much fo. All our animal oil is like lard. The experiments of Dr. Stark, prove fat to be the mod nutritive of all other animal fubffances; one part of it being equal in nourifhment, to five parts of lean. It is harder in the 'foetus, than in the D adult26 On the Adipose Substance. adult fubjett; and is of all other fub- flances the lead liable to putrefa&ion. Of the Difeafes of the Adipofe Subfance. THE difeafes of this fubflance are, the milk white ferum, and fatty tu- mours, commonly called wens. The firft is caufed by an abforption of the fat, and the cure of it, has been before mentioned, page 18. The latter are fometimes formed in different parts of the body, and require extirpation. Of the Difeafes of the Cellular Membrane, or Subfance. THE difeafes of this menbrane are the following, ' Anafarca, Diffujed Aneurifm, Abfcefs, Emphyfema. The * anafarca, or IcucophLymaiia, is * Anafarca, from the greek words ana per, through, and Jarx caro, flefh. / whenDiseases ofl the Cell. Memb. 27 when there is a large quantity of water, in the infterftices of this fubftance; and it is generally owing, to a relaxed ftate of the folids. The fluid which is found, in this dif- eafe, is the interjlicial fluid,', which be- ing fecreted, and depofited in greater quantity than the lymphatics can abforb it, or than is neceflary for the purpofes of the animal ceconomy, occaflons the difeafe. This difeafe may always be known bv a tightnefs of the abdomen, and towards evening, an cedamatous fwelling or pit- ting of the legs. The intentions of cure are various, but we have only to mention the chirurgi- cal part, the reft belong to the teachers of the practice of phyfic. The operation to be performed, is to make a fmall crucial wound, deep on the inftep, which readily drains out the water. Large wounds are very prejudi- cial, a mortification generally fupervenes when there are many or large wounds. Scarifications are always preferable to tapping. The * dijfufled aneuriflm, is the dif- eafe, * Diffufed aneurifm from the greet word antu- L 2 ' rtunQa'8 Diseases of the Cell'. Memb. cafe next to be confidered. It general- ly happens from bleeding, an artery be- ing opened, the blood is immediately dif- fufed, through this fubftance. The intentions of cure, are, to npply the tourniquet to the arm immediately, (if it is not at hand, a roller fhould fup- ply it's place,) the artery fhould then be laid bare, and taken up, fmall inci- fions are to be made, as dire&ed for the emphyfema, and the parts lubricated with oil. If this is not immediately done, a mortification is generally the confequence very early. The h abfeefs, is alfo a difeafe of this fubfiance. It is formed by an inflamma- tion of any part, which is owing to an increafed affion of the mufcular fibres # ' of the arteries. It is here neceffary to make a few ob- iervations, on the fluid contained in ab- feefies. It has generally been defined to be produced, by an erofion, deflrufrion, -or melting down of the folids. But this opinion is entirely erroneous; it is be- y cuno dilato, to dilate (in furgery) fignifies a wound of the artery, and the blood diffufed into the V " , cellular fubftance of the limb. f Abfeefs a tumor containing pus. yond ADiseases of the Cell. Memb, 2g yoncl all doubt, a fecretion ; by the in- croafed afiion of the veffels of the in- r flamed part, the coagulable lymph be-N ing thrown out (by the exhalants,) in greater quantities than the lymphatics can abforb it, ftagnates: the heat of the part being alfo increafed, prevents it’s adhefion, and organization ; and induces a fermen- tation converting it into pus ; the mildnefs or virulence of the matter, is always in proportion to the (fates of the difeafe, by which it is produced. Undoubtedly, matter will, if buffered to remain on a- ny part, corrode and deftroy it. But abfeeffes in the cavity of the tharax, and alfo in the eye, in the difeafe called /flu- id lacrymalis, and the gonorrhea, fuffici- ently (hew it to be a priori, a fecreti- on only. The difference that is perceived in the matter iffuing, on the opening an abfeefs, and the fubfequent difeharge, is in con- fequence of the expofure of the part to the atmofpheric air ; a circumflance very detrimental to all kinds of wounds, and eyer as much as poffible to be avoided. The thin fluid, which is fometimes found contained in tumors of this kind, is the coagulable lymph. It30 Diseases of the Cell. Memb. It is always to be remembered, that when matter is collefted under any of the fafcia, or near the large blood vef- fels, it ought to be let out as fpeedily as poflible. The heft method of opening large ab- fceffes, is by feton; for which purpofe, firft, introduce a trochar, or hydrocele injlrument, (invented by Mr. Pott,) then feveral fetons well oiled, and over them apply a tight bandage ; by this means the difeharge is gradually increafed, and the ulcer foon heals. On the face, and in bub os in wo- men, where as much fkin as poflible fhould be preferved, the knife is preferable. In men, bubos are bell opened by cauf- tic, (the cutting out oval pieces, is not a good method) for this purpofe, the lapis mfemails is beft, but the matter fhould be perfeftly formed, before it is applied. Abfceffes of the bread:, we advife not to be opened at all, emollient poultices being generally fufheient, and the beft method of cure. To prevent the formation of matter in the bread, an in- genious * gentleman, to whofe labours the * Mr. Juftamond. worldDiseases of the Cell. Memb. 31 _ • world are much indebted, for many im- provements in furgery, has advifed a fo- lution of crude fal armoniac two drams in four ounces of hungary water. The * emphyfema is a difeafe, in which the air, that was before in a fixed ftate is let loofe into the interfiices of the cel- lular fubftance, inflating the f part. This difeafe is generally occafioned by a wound in the lungs, and more frequently from lacerated, than punctured wounds; in the former by a fraTured rib, which irritat- ing the wounded lung, throws off the co- agulated blood, and the air rufhes into the cellular fubftance. Vide Lond. Med. Obferv. Ed.inb. Medical EJj'ays. It is alfo produced, by Na wound of the trachea. It feldom happens from a wound, oc- cafioned by the punfture of a {harp in- ftrument, or a mufket ball. The blood which in this cafe iffues from the wound, coagulates, and prevents an emphyfema. * Emphyfema from the greek word cmp/w/bna, f f he reafon that drowned perfons fwim on the furface, is, by the air, which was before fixed, be- ing let loofe into the cellular fubftance confe- quently the body is lighter; and not from the quantity of water taken in, as was erroneoufty fuppofed. We3,2 Diseases of the Cell. Memb. t We may be certain, whether it be air or water, contained in the cellular fub- ffance, by their different fenfations ; tl air making a kind Qf crepitus, and the water leaving an cedamatous appearance. It is not the air itfelf, does fo much harm in the emphyfema; it is the preffure o the air on the lungs, is the caufe of death. In the lirft place, the intentions of cun are, to let out the air, by many fmal incilions, made into the cellular fubflance, on all the parts which are difeafed, lu- bricate your hands, and the (Ivin with oil, and by this mean<s the air will general- ly be evacuated. If it Ihould accumu- late again, cut down, and give a free vent for the air, externally. The operation for the emphyfema, is the fame, as for the empyema, or abfcefs in the thorax, and the hydrops pectoris, and is as follows. The patient is to be placed in an hori- zontal pofition, the fide on which the o- peration is to be performed, inclining o- Ver the bed ; the fkin being: then drawn up, as much as poffible, the perforation is to be made with a fcalpel, about two inches in length, between the fixth and leventh rib, reckoning from above down- wardsDiseases of the Cell. Memb. 33 Wards, and in a valvular direflion, as near the part firft injured as may. be. If that is too near thefpine, or any thing in- dicates otherwife, it may be made about equal diftance, between the fpine and Jler- num: after evacuating the air, the fkin is to be drawn over the part, and a ban- dage applied. If the air occupies a fmall fpace on- ly, then apply a tight bandage or laced waiflcoat, and this we recommend in frac- tured ribs, to prevent their elevation. There are indances of emphyfema, in cattle, from putrid fevers. Hydatids do not belong to difeafes of the cellular membrane. ,0/ Ligaments. WE proceed to confider another of the molt fimple, and lead orga- nized fibres of the body, known by the name of ligaments. Ligaments are very univerfal, in the animal body. The ufe of thefe fubdances, is, to con- ne£I the different parts of the body. They are of two kinds; * Elqttic,34 Of Ligaments. * Elaftic, and Inelaflic. Elajlic ligaments are made of cellu- lar fubftance, are of a yellow colour, have few blood velfels, and are but lit- tle organized. They ferve as ligaments in the fpinous procelfes of the feventh cervical vertebrae, and between the backs - ■-■ r- r- • • • of the bodies of the vertebrae, and their fpinous procelfes; in the ligamentum nu- chae colli, and on the brim of the aceta- bulum. Their life is to aflift us, in bending the fpine and neck ; for which purpofe nature has put a large portion in thofe animals, which gather their fubfiftence from the ground. And in fome animals, a large quantity is given for fupport to the inteftines, by covering the mufcles of the abdomen. \ Their aftion has no dependence on the will, therefore is not fatiguing, or expen- five to the conftitution. In a found Hate, they are infenfible j * Elajlicity, is a power, which fome bodies pof. fefs, of conftahtly, and equally, endeavouring to contrail themfelves, to that form, from which they have been diftorted ; and is not confined fole- ly to animated matter. butOf Ligaments. 35 The E 2 but in an inflamed ftate, exquifltely fen- fible, and attended with great pain. Inelajlic ligaments, are of a white co- lour, like burnifhed filver, and of great rigidity. They are given to connefl parts;, where {lability is required, as bones; alfo to prevent luxations. Luxations are feldom attended with la- * cerations of the ligamentous fibre, unlefs the parts are difeafed. The inelaflic is more vafcular, than the elaftic ligament. It has nerves, but is little fenfible in a found (late. Difeafes of this ligament are attended with great pain, the caufe of which arif- cs from the veflels being diflended, and prefling upon the nerves. The tendons are formed of the inelaf- tic ligamentous fibre. They are vafcular, and have nerves; their external furfaces, are fmooth and poliflied. Their ufe is, to conne£l the mufcles to the bones.S6 ' Of Lig AMENTS. The Smtcl mater, periojleum, and we’c# fclerotica, are made of’ inelaftic li- gamentous fibres. The capfular ligament, is compofed of two layers, the one external, from the periofteum; the other internal, and ex- ceedingly vafcular. The internal furface, forms a complete bag, and in a found flate, is perfe&ly in- fenfible. The fluid which is fecreted in the joints, and which we call finovia, or the fmovial fluid, is the fame as neat’s-foot oil in cattle. The ufe of this, is, to lu- bricate the joints, make the bones flip eafy, and prevent abrafion. The annular ligaments are bands, which bind the flexor, and extenfor tendons, and keep the bones of the hand, and foot, in their places. The intermufcular ligaments, between the brachius internus, is made of the in- elaftic ligamentous fibre. The fafciae or bands, by the antients called, '*aponeurofts, (erroneoufly fuppofed to be an cxpanfton of a nerve,) are ten- * Aponeurofis, from the greek words apo dc from, and neuron nervus a nerve. dinous37 Of Ligaments. The dinous expanfions, formed of the liga- mentous fibre. They are found in differ- ent parts of the body; are vafcular, and have nerves alfo, but are infenfible in a found hate. Their ufe is to bind down the mufcles, and keep them in their pro- per places; as in the thigh and arm. Interolfeous ligaments, as the perichon- drium, fupply the place of bones, and give origin and infertion to mufcles. t<^> K*)0 ^ “<*». <*>> '<*>" <<*y °<*)o Of the Nervous Fibre. i TO underhand the properties of the body, depending on the influence of the nervous fyflem, it will be necef- fary to premife, fome general ideas of it’s flru6ture. In all perfeft animals, as man, qua- drupeds, birds, and many amphibia, as turtle, Jeal, crocodile, and fat and [pi- nous fjhes, a nervous fyflem is fuperadd- ed. But this is not abfolutely necefiary for life, as it is wanting in infleds; and we know that the circulation may be carried on without the brain. The nervous fyflem, is divided into two parts.38 Of the Nervous Fibre. The firft, encephalon, which is contain- ed in the cranium, (note, the humanfub- jed has more brain, in proportion to it's fize, than any other animal) compara- tively it may be confidered,. the fame to the nervous fyflem, as the heart is to the vafcular. The encephalon is fubdivided into ce- rebrum, and cerebellum; the firft of. which is fubdivided into fix lobes, two anteri- or, two middle, and two pofterior ; and thefe are all that can be feen in the ca- vity of the fkull. On removing them we fee the two lobes of the cerebellum, which lie pofteriorly, and appear vermi- cular. The lobes of the brain, are all cover- ed by membranes, called meninges. The firft external covering is the du- ra mater, and confifts of two lamina; the ufe of it is, to prevent preffure on the brain. The fecond, called tunica * araehnoides. The third is, the pia mater, which goes between the convolutions of the brain, and is a double membrane. All * Araehnoides, from the greek words aracr.e, 2 ipider, and eidos, form, reiembling a ipider’s web. thefe, I Of the Nervous Fiere. 39 thefe membranes, go to make coverings to the nerves. The brain has four ventricles, two la- teral, one middle, one pofterior. Thefe all contain water, fecreted by the plexus * choroides. When this fluid is fecreted in too large quantities, the hydrocephalus internus is produced. The fecond part, is, the elongation of the brain, coming from both fubftances, and may be confidered as a ninth lobe. It paffes out at the foramen magnum, down the fpine, guarded as in the brain, by the fpine: this is called, the medulla, fpinalis. From thefe arife, thofe white, flrong, elaftic chords, called nerves; diflributed to all parts of an animal body, for the purpofes of ferifation and motion. There arife nine pair from the brain. And thirty-one pair from the medul- la fpinalis, making in the whole, forty pair of nerves. Thofe arifing from the brain, are the following, Firft pair, olfaElory; which are the * Plexus choroides, is a product ion of the pia mater, fpread over the lateral ventricle. organs40 Of the Nervous Fibre. - \ organs of fmell. Second pair, optic; and are the or- gans of vilion.‘ Third pair, motores oculorum; thefe aftift in moving the eyeball. Fourth pair, pathetici; thefe exprefs the paflions. Fifth pair, fympathetic: this is divid- ed into three branches. The 1ft branch is the opthalmic; The 2nd, the maxillaris fuperior, * The 3rd, maxillaris inferior. Sixth pair, abduhlores; they ferve to draw the eye from the nofe. Seventh pair, auditorii; thefe are di-, vided into two portions: Portio mollis, and Portio dura. The firft fupplies the vejlibule, cochlea, and femicircular canals, and is loft in the inner camera of the ear, in a very foft pulpy fubftance; this is the imme- diate organ of hearing. Portio dura, paff- es through Galen's foramen caecum, vcl aquceduEtus fallopii, gives branches to the malleus, and to the dura mater; and alfo » to the mufclcs of the head and neck. It has by this means, conhderable fympathy with the ffth pair of nerves, and fccond cervical.Of the Nervous Fibre. 41 # \ cervical. Eighth pair, called par vagum: gives nerves to the tongue, larynx, pharynx, and ganglion of the intercofal nerve. At it’s entering the thorax, it fends off a large branch of each fide, to make the recurrents; after thefe branches are fent off, it fends filaments, to the pericardi- um, heart and lungs ; it alfo fends branch- es to the cefophagus, and fomach. Ninth pair, linguales; are diftributed to the mufcles, and fubftance of the tongue. They ferve both for guftation, and per- forming the motions of the tongue. The others are fubdivided into cervi- cal, dorfal, lumbar, and facral\ deferip- tive of the places where they come out. The nerves are a fine qua non, for muf- cular motion, and are the agents, by which the mind a£ts on the human machine: and by which it is again . a£led upon, which gives them a double capacity. For firft, they convey outwards, im- preffions. Secondly, they convey inwards, im- preffions. They have the power of volition, by which every thing is performed. The nervous fluid, is not demonftra- F ble42 Of the Nervous Fibre. ble; but is fuppofed to be a modifica- tion of the eledric fluid. This is fuppofed to be carried from the brain, by the nerves, (which are the par- ticular conduftors) and a£ls as aflimulus, to make the mufcles contraft. This is the exciting caufe ef aflion. The fmalleft fibre of a nerve, in the retina of the eye, is the 32,400th part of a common hair: this is computed from the minimum vijibile. Profejfor Monro faid, he could fee the conftituent nerves, by glaiTes. The torpedo, or flkate, has an ele&ric property, and gives a numbnefs to any body touching it. Though the fpark can- not be feen, it throws off the fhock at two parts, in which the large nerves are fituated. By the gymnotus, or ele&ric eel of Guiana, the fame effe&s are produced : the nerves in it are very large. A more minute defcription of the brain and nerves will be given, and their ufes and feveral phenomena, will be ex- plained at large, when we fhew you their anatomical flru&ure. We only wifh to give you general ideas of them at pre- ient. Of43 Of the Mufcular Fibre. . < ROM the preceding view of the nervous fyltem, it is evident that the beginning of motion, in the animal ceco- nomy, is generally connected with fen- fation. And the ultimate effeCts of fuch motion, are aCtions depending on the con- traction of the moving, or mufcular fi- bres, and this is called'mufcular motion; which is necelfary to all living animals, and which, together with their particular ItruCture, and organization, is now to be explained. The mufcular fibre, makes all that part of the animal body, called flefh. It’s colour in man, and quadrupeds, is red; in fome birds and fiifii, white ; in infieds, green. The red colour is not inherent in the mufcle, but is owing to the quantity of blood, contained in it: as by walhing and injeCling a limb with water, and then making a tranfverfe feCtion, it may be made white. And parts may be muf- cular, though not red, as the iris. The mufcles in the dead body, are foft F2 and44 Of the Muscular Fibre. \ * and inelaftic ; in the living, capable of exerting great force, and become flrong- er, in proportion as they are more ufed; (for example, chairmen’s legs are much flronger, than their arms; and water- men’s arms, flronger than their legs ;) and weaker, in proportion as they lie ftill : old, and bedridden people, are inftances of this. They have arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatic veffels: alfo cellular fubflance. There are many ramifications in a muf- cle, and the veffels go from a circum- ference, to a centre. The arteries run parallel, and by the preparations of Liberkuin, mufcles appear nothing more, than a congeries of veffels. It was generally fuppofed, that the ar- teries opened into veficles, which made the conflituent part of a mufcle; and a diflenhon of the part, was produced by this means, and caufed a contraftion. If a mufcle is expofed, it contra&s, and is fhortened. Vide Window. The ultimate fibre of a mufcle, is too fin all to be demonftrated. - The * iris of the human eye, ferves to illuflrate * The iris will not contract by the ele&ric fparkI Of the Muscular Fibre. 45 illuftrate this, and to explain the dottrine of mufcular motion. This is compofed of arteries, veifts} nerves, abforbent veffels, and cellular fub- ftance ; which are the whole * apparatus neceffary, to produce mufcular motion, without any conftituent mufcular fibre, and which cannot be demonftrated here. So,as mufcular motion is performed,without any conftituent mufcular fibre being de- monftrable; hence we may fairly infer, it’s abfence in all parts; more efpecial- ly, as the ftru&ure of the fuppofed con- ftituent fibriles, is not underftood. The mufcular power, is different from elafticity ; it’s aftion is not conftant, but dependent on the nervous influence ; and is exerted by ftimuli, which are of dif- ferent kinds, viz. Mechanical, Mental, And, others of a fpecific kind. jpark, when the light is taken away it dilates. The retina, and coroid coat, contract by light thrown on them. * The funis umbilicalis, which has this, on being inje&ed with a common injedtion of fize &c. loll in right lines, one third of its meafure, but gained one third of its meafure, in contorted lines. The46 Of the Muscular Fibre. The firft, is, the application of the powers and force of the body, to any obje£L The fecond, is the irritability, or vis motrix. The others are of various kinds. The nervous fluid, is a ftimulus, and the mod; natural caufe, of mufcular mo- tion. . The electric matter, is a ftronger fti- mulus. The bile, may probably be the natu- ral ftimulus, to excite the periftaltic mo- tion of the intejlincs and the rcEtum, to void the fceces. The heart and diaphragm, are both involuntary mufcles. In mortifications, the veftels lofe their vital or mufcular power. The properties of the body to be de- fcribed here, as immediately dependent on, and connebted with thefe parts, are the fenfibility, and irritability The fenfibility, is a property of the body, by which applications to it, excite fenfations in the mind. It is not a pro- perty of the mind, but the body, for the body is frequently fcnfible, when the mind is not aftcbled ; as for example, the ' mindOf the Muscular Fibre. 47 mind may not be affettefl, yet the body may be very fenfible; and, e contrario> an impreflion of the mind may remain a great time. The irritability, is a property of the body, which takes place in confequence of certain applications to it, by whjch a motion in the moveable parts is ex- cited, independent of the motion impreft. Of the Vafcular Syjlem. TH E next fubjeft for our confider- ation, is one of the molt import- ant, in the animal ccconomy; viz. the part which circulates the animal fluids, called the Vafcular Syflem. The vafcular jyftem, confifts of four parts. A heart, * Arteries, Veins, and an Abforient fyflem. In all human and perfect animals, we find arteries, veins, and an abforbent fyflem : the centre of thefe is the heart, d he * heart is an involuntary mufcle, of * It’s minute flrufture and organization we re- serve,48 Of the Vascular System* of a conic form, fituated tranfverfely, be- tween the two laminae of the mediajti- num, in the lower part of the cavity of the thorax; with it’s bafe towards the right, and it’s apex towards the left fide, it’s under furface flattened, towards the diaphragm. It is divided by partitions, as the feptum ventricularum, and Jeptum auricularum; and contains two mufeu- lar bags, called auricles; and two other mufcular bags, called ventricles. It is covered by a very fine membrane, and is compofed entirely of mufcular fibres, which pafs in every direftion, and it has valves to prevent the retrograde motion of the blood. The heart is the chief or- gan of the vafcular fyftem, and from it arifes, the two principal arteries of the body. / Of the Arteries. THE * Arteries are defigned for nu- trition, and fecretion, conveying ferve, till we give the angiotogy, or particular de- icription of the blood vcffels, and the circulation of the blood. * Artery, from the greelc words acr, aer, air, and tcrco, iervo, to keep. animalI Of the Arteries* 49 animal heat, and as a fine qua non, for mufcular motion. They were firft named by Erafiftra- tus, who fuppofed that they carried the finer parts of the blood, mixed with air, forming the animal fpirits. T. hey are hollow elaftic tubes, beginning from the heart, to carry blood to the different parts of the body. And are two in number, viz. Aorta, and 1 Arteria pulmonaUs* The Aorta, or great artery, arifes from the left ventricle of the heart, and gives off two branches, called aorta afcendens, and aorta defcendens. The aorta afcendens, fends off branch- es, to all parts above the diaphragm. The aorta defcendens, carries down the blood, and fends branches to all parts of the body, below the diaphragm. The arteria pulmonalis, riles immedi- ately out of the right ventricle of the heart, and goes only to the lungs, car- rying the blood, returned by the veins, through the right auricle, into the left ventricle. There are feven veins ; fuperior cava, inferior cava, four pulmonary veins, and G the I50 Of the Arteries. the vena portarum. The firfl returns all the blood, circu- lated by the different branches of the aorta afcendens, above the diaphragm; the fecond, all circulated by the differ- ent branches of the aorta defcendens, be- low the diaphragm, into the right auricle of the heart; from thence the blood is carried into the right ventricle, and by the arteria pulmonahs to the lungs. The two right pulmonary veins, return the blood from the right pulmonary artery, Jnto the left auricle, and from thence it is carried to the left ventricle of the heart. The two left, return it from the left pulmonary artery, into the left au- ricle alfo, and from it the blood paffes into the left ventricle, whence the aorta originates, diftributing it, by it's branches, to every, the moll minute part of the animal. The power which circulates the blood, is the mufcular power of the heart and arteries, and the elaflicity of the arteries themfelves. The blood is thrown out by the contraction of the arteries, which is called the fyjlole, this immediately brings on the dilatation, or diajlole; for when the heart contraCis, the arteries di- lateOf the Arteries. 51 late, and vice verfa. The vena portarum, or feventh vein, arifes from all the chilopoetic vifcera, and carries the blood to the liver; there afling as an artery, it fecretes the bile, and after having performed this import- ant purpofe in the animal oeconomy, it carries the blood into the inferior cava, to be mixed, and returned with the reft * • - to the heart. The branches near the heart, always go off at obtufe angles; by this means, the momentum of the blood, is confider- ably dimimfhed. But at a great diftance from the heart, the angles are very a- cute. The courfe of the arteries is always in the centre of the part, in the bending fides of the joints, (as in the axilla, in- ner part of the cubit of the arm. See. which fituation prevents their being ftretch- ed, or compreffed, in the various moti ons of the body,) taking the fhorteft tracls, to the parts they are to fupply. Independent of their giving off branches, they are increafed as they proceed from the heart, and they are evidently invert- ed cones. On fome parts, they run convoluted, G 2 ( e v •£2 Of the Arteries. (e, g.) the arteries of the fpleen, tejlis} uterus, and umbilical chord. There are two fets of arteries in the body; the one, deep feated; the other, fuperficial. By this difpofition, if either fet is comprelted, the other may carry on the circulation; and the * anallomo- fes, which are found in all the large glands, and parts liable to prelfure, are dehgned for the fame purpofe. They are alfo divided into three claffes. * Sanguineous, Seriferous, Lymphatic. The firft, are thofe, which carry red fdood only. The fecond, thofe which cannot car- ry red blood, but ferum only. The third, thofe which carry lymph. In the cornea of the eye, we cannot difcern red blood, except when it is in- flamed. There are alfo capillary, and cxha- lent arteries, in different parts of the bo- i * Anaftomofis from the greelc words, ana, per, through, and Jloma, os, a mouth, by the antients underflood to be veflels opening on furfaces, by the moderns a communication of veflels. Mr. Fajconar faid there ar? none in the glands. dy.Of the Arteries. 53 dy. The former are very fine tubes, ter- minating on the furfaces of the body; the latter fecrete a fluid, for the purpofe of lubricating the different cavities of the body, and are alfo found on the lungs and uterus. Arteries have three coats, which may be feparated. The firft, elaflic, which has fibres in all dire&ions, and a great number of blood vefTels for it’s fupport, called va- vcforum. Nerves are alfo diftributed on if. The fecond, mufcular, with circular fibres. This cannot be demonftrated. On it depends, the fenfation of blufhing. It likewife gives them fome degree of ir- ritability*. though this is much greater in the arteries of amphibious animals, than in thofe of the human fubjeft. The third, or internal coat, is a very fine, fmooth, denfe membrane; being in- tended to prevent tranfudation. Thefe coats are all connefted toge-> tfier, by cellular fubftance. In the foetus, there are two arteries, for the circulation of the blood; one of which is obliterated, after the birth, and degenerates into a ligament; when pervious, itOf the Arteries. 54 it is called duEtus, vsl canalis artcriofus The two vertebral arteries, afcend through the foramen magnum, and im- mediately uniting form the bafilary arte- ry, which makes an anaftomofis with the carotid artery, called circulus arteriofus Wiilifii, from its having been difcovered by him. In an inflammation of the brain, the temporal artery may be opened with ad- vantage. Eight or ten ounces of blood, obtained by this means, proves of more relief, than four times the quantity from the general fyftem. It muff: be opened longitudinally, left by a tranfverfe fefti- on, the feventh pair of nerves (liould be injured, and occafion a locked jaw, and other difagreeble circumftances : an in- ftance of which we have feen. In order to flop the haemorrhage, ap- ply a comprefs above and below. On the Pulfe. ry^HE a&ion of the arteries, is indi- JL cated by their pulfation, which has been called the Pulfe. Pulfes are divided, by many phyftolo- gifts55 Of the Pulse. gifts, into a great variety; but this ferves only to confufe the ideas, and perplex the memory of the ftudent. We (hall only mention the moft general divifion, with a few remarks; leaving them to be accurately defined, by thole perfons, to whofe peculiar province it belongs. Fortis. We call it a ftrong pulfe, when the artery vibrates, like the chord of a mufical inftrument. Dcbilis. When it feels enveloped in fome foft fubftance, we call it a weak pulfe. Magnus. A great pulfe, is when the artery feels larger than ufual; and e con- trario, Parvus. In a fmall pulfe, the artery feels fmaller. The fmall pulfe from great- er contractions, and that from the artery containing lefs blood, are eafily diftin- Celer, tardus, frequens, rarus. Thefe .ftates of the pulfe, indicate the different degrees of irritability in the fyftem; and are thofe, which ought particularly to be attended to. Purus. When the arteries a£I ftrong- ly, the pulfe is in general hard, and this produces a variation in the blood, called the56 °f the Pulse. the buff, e contrario, Mollis. When the action of the ar. teries is diminifhed, by bleeding or other means. Plenus, vacuusi The quantity of blood in the veffels, is alfo (hewn by the pulfe. When the veffels are diftended, we call it a full pulfe ; e contrario, when not fuffici- ently diffended, an empty, or fmallpulfe. Regularis, irregularis, intermittens. Thefe indicate the regularity, or irregu- larity of the contra&ion and dilatation of the heart; and the laft is frequently a dangerous fymptom, and a fign of death. Though it is to be noted, people have been born with an intermittent pulfe, and have fuffered no inconvenience from it. The pulfe has a peculiar feel, in peo- ple having an aneurifm, near the heart. Other peculiarities have been menti- oned, but we are unacquainted with, any definition whereby they may be diflin- guifhed. The diameter of the arteries, is alfo known by the pulfe; this we call the medium, between contra&ion and dila- tation. WeI Of the Pulse, 5/ We fhall here repeat the different kinds of pulfes. Fortis, jflrong; Magnus, great; Celer,. quick ; Frequens, fre- quent ; Durus, hard; Plenus. full; vcw Reg ularis,regu- lar ; Debilis, weak. Parvus, fmall. Tardus, flow. Rarus, rare. Mollis, foft. Vacuus, empty. Irregularis, irre- gular. Intermittens, intermittent. Dr. Heberden has given fome obfer- vations on the pulfe, (in the Lond. Med. Tranfa&ions,) by which he proves, in how few cafes, it can be depended on. The pulfe of a child, under two years old, fhould be felt whilft it is alleep ; and the following are the mean rates of the pulfe. On the day of birth, 130—140. Firft year, lio—120. Second, go—100. • Third, fourth fifth, fixth go—108. Seventh, 72— 80. Twelfth, 70, and a few more. Adults, a little below 60— 80. H A.. r Of the Pulse. t A full meal quickens it, 10 or 12 pulfations ; a variation of ten, indi- cates difeafe in the fyftem; that number below the natural flandard, fhews an af- fe&ion of the brain. In an inflammatory fever, 120 is a dan- gerous pulfe; except in an acute rheuma- tifm, the pulfe rifes to 120; and to 150, before the appearance of a critical fuel- ling, without danger. JDifeafes of the Arteries. THE difeafes of the arteries are, Aneurifn, and Ofhfication. Aneurifms are of three kinds, viz, true, W'The firft, b a mere fimple dilatation of the coats of an artery; confiding ol a fack or pouch, containing grumotis blood, and coagulable lymph ; andl *. ge- nerally produced by a lofs ol the toi power of the veffels. The fecond, is from a rupture of the firft, and molt commonly proves fata • The third, is the rupture of an artery, by fome means, without the previous di- latation. ThisDiseases of the Arteries, 59 This is fubdivided into three kinds. The cirumfcribed, or eneyffed aneurifm, which generally happens from bleeding. The diffufed; this has been before mentioned, page 27. The varicofe; this fpecies of aneurifm, was firfl difeovered by the late Dr. Hun- ter.; and is, when an artery and vein are opened at the fame time, the arterious blood runs into the vein, and goes on by the fame channel. An inftance of this we have feen, without inconvenience to the perfon, or requiring affiftance. Where an aneurifm preffes on a bone, it becomes carious, by the mechanical preffure. The operation of the popliteal aneu- rifm, fo feldom fucceeds, we wifh to re- commend to your confideration, the fol- lowing attempt to obviate that complaint, and it’s more dangerous confequences, the operation performed for its cure. Apply a tourniquet to the femoral ar- tery, at a fmall dilfance below where the profunda branches off, and make it gradually tighter; by this means the profunda will have time to dilate, the circulation be carried on by it, the great branch be entirely obliterated by the me- H 2 chanical6o Diseases of the Arteries. chanieal prefTure, and the aneurifm, we hope will be loft. OJfification of arteries. This difeafe is occafioned by too great a fecretion, and confequent depofition of catcareous mat- ter ; and is more common in arteries, than in other parts of the body. It be- gins under, or in the internal coat; from thence it is continued to the external coat of the artery, and is a fpecies of corrugation. It is more common in old than in young people, owing to the impetus of the blood being leffened, and by this means the diameter of the arteries is di- minifhed. This circumflance, enables us to account for it’s being produced by aneurifms, from the prefTure of the fack. A mortification of the toes and feet, is generally in confequence of this difeafe. It is very feldom feen in the veins. Arteries are lefs liable to erofion, or abforption, than any other part of the body. Whenever an erofion or ulcer takes place, the internal coat of the ar- tery never heals. We have feen a cafe, of an offificati- tion of the valves of the aorta, an ulcer in it’s finus, and an incipient aneurifm,;61 <<*»<<*>: **>»«*>= «<*»«<*> Obfervations on Haemorrhages, IN fmall veflels, the fuppreflion of the haemorrhage, is, Firft, by the retraflion of the ends of the veftels. Secondly, by the mufcular power of the arteries. Thirdly, by the expofure to cold air; which has moll power, in coagulating the blood. Spirit of wine, a£ls as a fedative, in coagulating the blood. The method of fupprefting haemorrha- ges, by ligature, was invented by Johan- nes de Varico, and Ambrofe Parey. In the operation for caftration, tie the artery, without any. of the reft of the chord. Never tie a nerve with an artery, if you can avoid it; as it fometimes oe- cafions a lockt jaw, and other difagree* ble fymptoms. Oj62 •(*>»•<*)*•<*>>•<*)» Of the Veins. TH E Veins are hollow, elaftic tubes, the reverfe, and continuation of the arteries, are found in all parts of the bo-* dy, of a conical form, the apex terminat- ing in the heart. They may pulfate there, but this is unknown. They are feven in number; viz. fupe- rior, and inferior cava, four pulmonary veins, and the vena portarum. A gene- ral defeription of each, having been given with the arteries, it is unnecelfary to fay more of them in this place. The veins are more numerous than the arteries, there being two veins to every artery, (except the kidney, which has but one vein;) and their trunks are confiderably larger. The veins of the vjfcera always attend the arteries. The blood, in the veins, moves in an equal flream, unlike that in the arteries; which may be known by flowing out per Jaltum. We remember the relation of a cafe, where the artery lay fo clofe to the median vein, that on opening the vein, theOf the Veins. 6$ the motion of the blood in the artery, threw out the blood from the vein per faltum, and the furgeon fuppofed he had opened an artery. But the difference of colour, between arterious, and venous blood, will always enable you to diftin- guifh this; the former being of a florid, bright, red colour; and the latter, dark, and black. They are divided into two fets; the one deep feated, accompanying the arte- ries ; the other fuperficial, lying under the (kin, called cutaneous : thefe two fets, are only to be found in the neck, and ex- tremities. Their ufe is, to return the blood, when one of them is divided or compreffed. The two veins of the neck, are call- ed internaljugular firms es: they are al- fo called fniuses, in the gravid uterus. They are divided into three claffes. Sanguiferous, Seriferous, Lymphatic; Correfponding with the three claffes of arteries, and defigned for the fame pur- pofes. The veins have three coats, fitnilar to arteries, which may be feparated in the larger64 Of the Veins?. larger ones; they are den Ter, and lefs elaftic than the arteries ; when cut through, collapfe; they have mufcular fibres alfo, and are irritable. They have likewife vafa, vaforum, and begin from the arteries, by continuity of canal; by inje&ing the arteries with mercury, this is demonftrated. Fluids pafs readily from the arteries to the veins. They have valves to prevent the retro- grade motion of the'blood; (general- ly two in number;) formed by a dupli- cature, of the internal coat of the veins ; are of a crelcent form, the edges loofe^ the horny part fixed to the vein. When the blood is driven into the vein, the edges collapfe, and prevent it’s retrograde motion. Thefe are fometimes fingle, where a ' fmall vein enters ; fometimes, double ; and fometimes, treble. And always to be found, where there is preffure. There is one in the axilla, fcalp, and coronary vein ; and they are very nume- rous on the extremities, always making a fwelling on a vein. The great trunk of the vena azygos? orOf the Veins. 65 or intercoftal vein, has no valves, but the fmall branches have valves. The upper part of the veins of the bladder, and fpermatic vein, have valves. The valves are wanting in the veins of the heart, * vifcera, brain, and infe- rior cava of the human fubjeft, but are found in horfes and alfes. The fmalleft veins are probably with- out valves. The quantity of blood contained in the human body, is, on a medium, judged to be between twenty and thirty pounds. But this is uncertain, it is different in different people, and is mofl: probably greater in fat than lean people ; and is fuppofed to pafs through the heart, at leaf!, once in two minutes. On the Difeafes of the Veins. VEINS, from various caufes, are fubjeft to become varicofe. The varix, is a dilatation of the fu~ perficial veins, from inflammation or o- ther caufes, as the cramp, and preffure * Stomach, inteflints, uterus. I OfDiseases of the Veins. i 66 of the uterus. By thefe means, the muf- cles contra&ing, the deep-feated veins are comprefted, the blood is forced into the fuperficial veins, which are confe- quently dilated, and then become vari- cofe. We have feen an aneurifmal varix on the trunk of the vena portarum, which contained worms. I ' Of the Lymphatic Syflem. THE lymphatic fyftem is generally divided into three parts, but we add a fourth. Firft, the thoracic duff; Second, the laffeals; Third, the lymphatics; Fourth, the conglobate, and conglome- rate glands. The thoracic duff, is the common trunk of the fyflem; is firft formed on the right crus diaphragmatis, and fituated on the firft vertebra lumborum, on the right fide of the aorta, and left of the vena azygos: in human fubjefts, fcldom larger than a wheat ftraw. AtOf the Lymphatic System. 67 At the lower part of this du£l, is the re- ceptacuLum chyli, near the beginning of the vena azygos. It was firft difeovered by Pecquet, anno 1601, and has fometimes been called Pecquet’s receptacle, in hon- our of him. It is formed by the large trunks of the lymphatics, which enter at the lower extremity. The thoracic duff has blood veflels, nerves, and mufcular fibres; has three coats, fimilar to veins. It goes up at the back of the fubclavian vein, and is fometimes found divided into two branch- es ; but they are ufually united again, and terminate by two, three, or four orifices in the angles, between the jugular and fubclavian vein, on the left fide ; from whence the chyle is conveyed with the blood, into the lungs, and there aflimila- ted with, and converted into blood. There is a large gland, in the courfe of the duff, fituate juft under the ori* gin of the aorta. The laaeals, or vafa chylifera, as they are fometimes called, were difeovered by Aftellius in 1662 ; though we are inform- ed by Galen, they had before been feen by Erafiftratus in kids; but he did not underftand their ufe, 12 Aftellius68 Of the Lymphatic System. i AflelKus fuppofed they conveyed the chyle, to the liver; for before the difeo- very of the thoracic duft, the liver was fuppofed to convert the chyle into blood, they arife by capillary orifices, from the internal furface, or villous coat of the inteftinal canal, (but principally from the Jlomach, jejunum, and ileum,) which is deftined to imbibe the nutritious fluid, called chyle. They pafs obliquely through the coats of the intefline, and running along the mefentery, unite as they advance, and form larger branches ; all of which pafs through the melenteric, or conglobate glands, which are very numerous in the human fubjett. As they run between the inteftines and thefe glands, they are lliled. -venae lahleae primi generis: fome of them efcape the firft fet of glands, and go to the fecond. After leaving thefe glands, they are found to be more numerous; and being increaf- ed in fize, are then called venae latlcce Jecundi generis. Thofe which efcape the fecond let of glands, go to the third ; by this npeans in fcrophula, the abforption is carried on, and the perfon nouriflied. They go under the peritoirccum, and in9 Of the Lymphatic System. 69 * • v in the longitudinal direftion of the intef- tine. By this difpofition, their trunks being continued longer, than if they went circularly, the fluid is altered ; they ter- minate in the thoracic duft. In their origin, they are called * ampul- lulae, the arteries of which can be injeft- ed : thefe are only to be found in the human fubjeft, and in a perfon juft dead after a full meal, by lightening the lac- teals. In the beginning they are bul- bous, the blood in them caufing an e- reftion ; by ft raining the inteftine unwafh- ed^ through two rings, the mucus will leave the ampullulse, and with a micro- fcope, you may difcover their orifices. In the inteftines, they aft in a double capacity; abforb lymph and chyle too. They are fometimes varicofe, but after- wards become more cylindrical. Their ftrufture correfponds exaftly with the lymphatics, next to be defcribed. The lymphatic veftels, arife by capil- lary orifices. We believe that they exift in every part of the body, (though they have not been demonftratcd in all parts* * Ampullulcr, a cellular fpongy body, filled with blood. asyo Of the Lymphatic System. i as the placenta, and brain.) They are minute, pellucid tubes; which, like the lafteals, direft their courfe towards the, centre of the body, and pour their con- tents into the thoracic du£L As they approach this duft, from the lower parts of the body, they gradual- ly unite, and enter it by three or four large trunks, which form the receptacu- lum chyli; and the lymphatics from all the other parts of the body, pour their lymph into different parts of this duft. As it runs upwards, to terminate in the fubclavian vein, except the lymphatics of the right arm, right fide of the neck, and right lung, the termination of which are to be defcribed hereafter. They pafs through the conglobate glands, the changes the lymph and chyle undergo here, are not yet afcertained. Their coats are denfe, and tranfparent; and are three in number, like the veins, but are too delicate to be feparated. The firft, or external coat, is like the ureter. The fecond, mufcular. The third, or internal, to prevent tranf- udation, and form the valves. They are irritable in a greater degree thanOf the Lymphatic System. 71 than the arteries or veins; with which they have no communication, except in the veins, in which they terminate. They have vafa vaforum, and retain their life longer than other parts. They confifl of two fets, upon all the inteftinal vifcera; one,fuperlicial, external, or peritoneal ; the other, deep feated, or internal. The external, lying immedi- ately under the fkin ; the internal, accom- panying the large arteries. In the liver, immediately under the peritonaeum, they are in great abundance. It has alfo a deep-feated fet, which ori- ginate in the pori billarii. In the uterus alfo, when the peritonaeum flies off, the lymphatics come off, and both fets com- municate : they enlarge here, in the fame manner as the veins. There are two fets in the lungs. They here run in between the little lobuli, and form a chain of network, and are eafily demonffrated in the lungs of a fcetus. There are two fets of lymphatics in the extremities. In the upper extremity, the firft or fu- perficial let, run on the back part of the fore arm, and then become more deep feated. The fecond, or deep-feated fet, accom-72 Of the Lymphatic System. accompany the arteries. The lymphatics of the lower extrem- ity, confift of two fets; fuperficial and deep feated. In the leg, the fuperficial come firft, to the femoral gland. The deep feated come firft to the popliteal, and then to the femoral, and both go to the inguinal, where the lymphatics of the organs of generation terminate. T hey then come up by feveral trunks, under the ligamentum pouparti, and go on both fides cf the aorta, with thofe which come from the uterus &c. and join the lafteals which come up in the courfe of the fu- perior mefenteric artery, and all termi- nate in the thoracic du£t. The thoracic duft, la&eals, and lym- phatics, are furnilhed with valves, which are much more numerous in thefe vef- fels, than in the veins. Thefe valves are ufually in pairs, 5 or 6 pair in every inch of the tube. They ferve to pro- mote the courfe of the chyle and lymph, towards the thoracic duft, and to pre- vent it’s return. A ligature pafted round the crural ar- tery, in a living animal, by including them, will occalion a diftention below the ligature, fo as to demonftrate them withOf the Lymphatic System. 73 ■with eafe. And a ligature patted round the thoracic du6l, immediately after kil- ling an animal, by flopping the courfe of it!s contents, into the fubclavian vein, diflends not only the lymphatics, but the lafteals alfo, in the abdomen and lower extremities, with their natural fluids. In the dead body, they are demonflra-* ble, by opening the artery, ramifying through any vifcus, (as in the fpleen, for inflance) and throwing in air, by which they will be diflended. One of them may then be pun£iured, and mercury introduced by a blow pipe. The lymphatics coming from the right fide of the neck, right arm, and right lung, open into the angle’ between, the jugular, and fubclavian veins, of the fame fide. And thofe of the right fide of the tho- rax, pafs under the aorta. The termination of the lymphatics of the heart, is not well underflood. Lym- phatics can be feen in large numbers, in the external part of the heart. For this purpofe, put the heart of a horfe in wa- ter, change the water once in two or three days ; examine carefully, and you will fee them filled with fixed air. When & youI 74 Of the Lymphatic System* you make the above experiment, tie up all the veflels in the courfe of the coro- nary artery. The lymphatics of the kidneys may be demonftrated in like manner. From the Tefticles, they go and join thofe of the kidney; but fometimes go into a gland, near the abdominal porti- on of the aorta. This fyftem is nourifhed after the fame manner, as all other parts of the bo- dy ; for even the moil minute of thefe veflels, are probably fupplied by ftill more minute arteries and veins. This feems to be proved, by the inflam- mation of which they are fufceptible; and the painful fwellings, which fome- times take place in lymphatic veflels, prove that they have nerves as w ell as blood veflels. The lymphatics are the only fyllem of abforbents; the proofs of which are, \{t. Their analogy with the lafteals. 2ndiy. The ingrefs of poifons into the body; as the venereal, variolous, can- cerous, See. inflaming the glands through which they pafs. 3rdly. The abforption ol matter from ulcers. At.hlv.Of the Lymphatic System. 75 4thly. The fluid contained in the lym- phatic veflels being flmilar to the fluids, contained in thofe cavities, from which the lymphatic veflels arife. Stkfy: The exiftence of the lympha- tic fyftem in all animals. The manner of abforption, is by the mouths of the la&eals and lymphatics, act- ing ascapillarytubes,theyabforb the lymph and chyle, in the lame manner as a ca- pillary tube of glafs, (when immerfed in a bafon of water, is enabled to attraft it to a certain height;) by this means it is probably conveyed, as far as the fir A pair of valves, which are near the orifice, and the fluid will then be propel- led forward, by a continuation of the abforption. They are fuppofed to de- rive fome advantages too, from their muf- cular coat, and from the pulfation of the arteries near which they lie. The lymphatic veflels were firft difco- vered, in Sweden, by Rudbec in 1662- About the fame time by, Bartholin, in Denmark; and Dr. Jolhfl'e, in England. In the year 1768, Mr. Hewfon completed this difcovery, by demonftrating the ex- iftence of lymphatic veflels in birds, fifli, and amphibious animals. K a They5 Of the Lymphatic System. The lymphatic glands, are conglobate, find are fituated in the courfe of the lym- phatics, which pafs through them ; have arteries, veins, nerves, lymphatic velfels, and cells. The lymphatic velfels, in their way to the thoracic du£t, enter and pafs through them. In the groin, there are two fets ; ingu - inal, and femoral. The inguinal, are the glands which are affefted by the venereal poifon: there are however cafes, of a fe- condary bubo, in the femoral glands. There are lymphatic glands found alfo in the diaphragm. The glands of the neck, are fometimes affeTed by a caries of a tooth. Stumps, after amputation, and in ab- fcelfes too, we very often find the glands, in the neighbouring parts affefted. The Difeafes of the Lymphatic Sy/lem. rTpHE difeafes of the lymphatic fyf- JL tern are thefcrophula, or kings evil, as it has been called. In children, it begins in the mefenteric glands, and is then con- tinued on, into the lymphatic glands, whichDiseases of the Lymphatics 77 which become indurated, and afterwards break out into ulcers. The matter con- tained in the lymphatics in this difeafe, has the appearance of earth and curds. Confumptions frequently depend on this difeafe. The lymphatics are too bibulous in the fcrophula, and it is to be remarked, that where the abforbents lofe their tone, the exhalants do likewife; and vice ver- fa. For example, a diabetes has been brought on, by the lymphatics inhaling the moilfure of the atmofphere. The fal fodce, or foiTil alkali, has been recommended in fcrophulous cafes, but with what fuccefs we cannot determine. Neither are we acquainted with any me- dicine, which may be depended on, to cure this complaint. Lymphatics are fometimes opened in wounds, difcharging lymph from a fun- gous fubftance, of a yellow appearance. The ,beft application to it, is the lunar cauftic, and lint wet with fpirit of wine over that.- 78 On * Glands. WE proceed to confider the flruc- ture and ufes, of thofe parts of the body, which are defigned to fecrete the various fluids from the blood, for the purpofes of the animal ceconomy; call- ed the fecretory organs or glands. A gland, is a circumfcribed tumour, found in various parts of the body. They are divided into two kinds, + con globate, and J conglomerate. The lym- phatic gland is conglobate, without fecre- tion ; the kidney is conglomarate in the foetus, but conglobate in the adult. • By later § anatomifts, glands are divid- ed, into fimple and compound, The firfl requires nothing more than an artery, to it belong the Jkin, pleura, peritonaeum, the membranes lining the * Gland, from the greek word adi:n, glandula, an acorn, a term originally given by the greeks, from the lymphatic glands, relembling that iub- itance. ■f Conglobate, a fubftance externally fmooth. ± Conglomerate, appearing like a number of imall kernels joined. § Mr, Fajconar, naft,On Glands. 19 nofe, the trachea, &c. the latter of thefe two, fecretes the fluid, expefiorated in cough 's; the other, the thin rheum, with which colds begin. Thefe are all of them glands, ex officio, fecreting the fluid neceffary, for their own lubrication and defence. A fimple gland, with a refervatory, is called folliculi; to this head we refer the febaceous glands. The fecond fet correfpond with each other, in their general conformation ; hav- ing arteries, veins, nerves, lymphatic vef- fels and excretorv duffs. The arteries 4 going to glands, are fuppofed to be more mufcular, confequently more irritable, than in the other parts of the body. The arteries of the pancreas, brcajl-, and falivary glands, enter at all parts; this We call the ramification of the gland. Thefe glands, with the tedicle, are par- ticularly affeffed by the nervous influ- ence, and are nearly fimilar in druffure, confiding chiefly of excretory tubes. They are mod liable to fchirrus and cancer, and very apt to fecrete poifons. The part which fecretes the poifon in the rattlefnake and viper; is like the hu- man falivary gland; and the part of the madOn Glands. So mad dog, which is primarily difeafed, is that gland. The kidney and lejlicle have each one centre of ramification; the former when inje&ed, appears like a feries of convo- luted veffels. The liver has two centres of ramifica- tion. and appears a congeries of veffels. The veiris return the fuperfluous blood, after it has performed it’s office, to the common mafs, to be with it carried to the heart. The nerves are diflributed to every part of the gland. All the compound glands, have a pro- per capfule or covering, to connect their different veffels. They have likewife fome- times an external covering, derived from the membrane, lining the cavities in which they are placed. The excretory duft of a gland, is made of a very hard, firm fubfiance; and fi- milar to the external coat of the arteries. It has mufcular fibres alfo, and lympha- tic veffels arifing from it's internal fur- face, to depurate the, fluid. In fome glands, there are feveral excretory tubes, which pouf their contents into one com mon duff, terminating in the receptacle belongingOn Glands 81 belonging to the gland. The excretory du£t of the fpleen) has not been demonftrated, fo that we remain totally ignorant of the ufes of this vif- cus ; every thing that has been advanced concerning it, being entirely hypothefis. There can be no doubt of it’s anfwering fome important purpofe in the animal ceconomy, but at prefent, the lymphatics are the only excretory dufls, we can difi1 cover. The thyroid gland has no excretory duffs, fave the lymphatics; neither has any excretory duff been feen in the re- nales capfulce. » Of Secretion. SECRETION, is the feparating from the blood various fluids, to an- fwer certain fpecific purpofes, in the ani- mal ceconomy, and requifite to the pre- fervation of life and health. Having giv- en a general definition of the apparatus, neceffary to perform this important work, we proceed to give you our ideas, of the manner in which it is performed. In or- der to this, we fhall divide it into four L diftinff82' Of Secretion. diffinft heads; which are. Preparation, Chemical alteration, Depuration, and Excretion. / We conceive that the arteries, have a power to modify the blood, in fuch a manner, as to bring it nearly to the na- ture of the fluid, fecreted by the particu- lar gland, to which it is conveying it; this we call preparation. And we ap- prehend it especially to take place, in the artery going to the teflicle; which, by it’s being derived from the aorta, and by it’s length, and circumvolutions in the gland itfelf, appears to modify or prepare the blood, for the fecretion of that moft important fluid, the femen. With refpeft to the chemical altera- tion, the blood undergoes in the body; the fecretion of the bile in the liver, clear- ly fhews that fuch an alteration does take place in this, and other glands, as the blood when entering the liver, has the fame tafle as the other blood. This al- teration feems very much to depend on the nervous influence, though we confefs ourfelves ignorant of the modus operandi. Depuration, is the taking off from the fluid.Of Secretion. 83 fluid, after it is feereted, the impure parts which are floating in it. This is per- formed by the lymphatics of the excre- tory tube, leaving the proper fluid free from any heterogeneous fubftances, to be carried by the excretory du£t to the pro- per receptacle, or to be thrown out of the body entirely, and this lafl is what we mean by excretion. The mofi univerfal fecretion in the a- nimal body, is the lymph ; and the glands fecrete different fluids, at different times. There will always be a balance in the animal fecretions, for as one is increaf- ed, another will be diminifhed ; and vice verfa, as one fecretion is flopped or di- minifhed, another will be increafed : for example, cold, weather, or the application of cold water, by diminifhing the deri- vation of the blood to the fkin, influen- ces and increafes the fecretion of urine. In like manner fear, by .inducing a con- traction of the capillary veffels, produces the fame effeCls. This enables us to ac- count for the large quantity of water, made by hylleric people. Wine has al- fo a like effeCf. And in fuppreffions of urine, the patient is .generally in a per- fpiration. L 2 We§4 Of Secretion. We have to mention here, the differ- ent parts of the body, to which the blood may be determined. They are the Jkin, and this is the mod common determina- tion of it, for the fenfible and infenfible perfpiration. The intejtines. It is generally deterr mined to this part of the body, after tak- - ing food of any kind, to affifl the pro- cefs of digeftion, and the making of the chyle. This explains the reafon of peo- ple, with good powers of digellion, com- plaining of cold in the external furfaces of the body, after dinner. The head. The blood in cafes of gen- eral inflammation, and from other caufes, is determined to the head, but never with advantage, and fometimes it’s effefls pro- duce death. The liver. Under particular circum- flances, the blood may be determined to the liver ; but we believe this very rarely to take place. The jaundice is occafion- c-d, by the blood returning into the ca- va, being tinged with bile; but this is generally owing to an obflruflion of the excretory duff of the liver, either from gall Hones, or fpafmodic contrafiion, not from an unufual quantity of blood, de- C. »■ * rivedOf Secretion. 85 rived to the liver. The uterus. In warm climates, we know that the blood is determined to the uterus by the appearance of the men- ftrual flux, much earlier than in this country. All parts having more blood than is neceflary for their life, are fuppofed to be glandular, and fecrete fome fluid ne- ceflary to the animal ceconomy; and it is to be noted, that all parts, which have many blood vefleli, have many nerves al- fo: but the gums are an exception to this rule. The glands on the mefentery of a foe- tus, are four times as numerous as in the adult fubjeft. The abolition of the thymus gland, is owing to abforption. There arc two kinds of flcfh in glands ; for example, in th e kidney, there is an exter- nal or cortical part, and an internal part, tubular. Thefe tubes receive the urine, as fall as it is fecreted, and then open in- to a common duft, forming the ureter3 which terminates in the bladder. Befides the glands which fupply nou- rifhment to the body, there are others which are dcltined to preferve clear, the fynflions86 Of Secretion. fun&ions of it’s various organs; and to carry out of the body, fuperfluous mat- ters. We are to take fome notice of thefe in this place, but they will be more particularly treated of hereafter. The brain is a gland, and the larged in the human body: it is fuppofed to fecrete a fluid, for the influence of the various organs of the body. The fubftance which is placed in the orbit of the eye, is the glandula lacry- malis; this fecretes the fluid for the lu- brication of the eye ball, and keeps the fight clear by it’s ablution. This gland is evidently affecled by the nervous in- fluence, in the paffions; and as we know that it’s fluid is taken into the duel by capillary attraflion, and continually propelled forward by the nervous influ- ence, may we not fuppofe, that this in- fluence operates as a flimulus, not on- ly to the fecretions, but alfo on the duffs, to carry off the other fluids of the body. The kidney is a large gland, found in all animals, for the purpofe of fecreting the fuperfluous water, from the blood. The joints of the body, are furnifh- ed with a gland, to fecrete a fluid for their lubrication, and to enable them ea~ fijyOf Secretion. 87 fily to perform, the various motions of the limb. TH E glands of the body are lia- ble to various difeafes, but they are more particularly fubjedt to two, viz. jchirr us and cancer. The firft is an indurated tumour, ow- ing to an obftrudlion of the gland, and ought to be extirpated as early as pof- fible, as all fchirrous tumours have a difpofition to become cancerous. The breajl and teficle, are the parts, which are generally the fubjedls of this complaint, and indeed all glands, having more excretory tube, than blood veffels, are particularly predifpofed to it. Cancer, is an unequal fore or ulcer^ formed by the fuppuration of the tu- mour before deferibed, difeharging a fa- mes from one or more openings. We recommend extirpation very early, as the only 'certain, and effedlual method of cure ; left by contaminating the neigh- bouring88 Diseases of the Glands. bouring parts, at length the whole fyf- tem is affefted, and the difeafe proves fatal. It is to be noted, that when the arm is cedematous, the glands in the axilla, are affe&ed, and ought alfo to be extir- pated, or the difeafe will return. ) • I r M *• %89 Of the Formation and Structure of Bone. HAVING given a defcription of thofe parts, which make the cover- ing to the human machine, we (hall here take notice of the principles, and gene- ral circumftances, belonging to that part, which forms the animal frame, giving fhape, and fupport to the whole. Bone is a hard inelaftic fubftance, for the purpofe of giving form, and fupport to the animal; to alford a lodgment for the foft parts, as the brain, thoracic vif- cera, and fpinal marrow; and to defend them from injury. All bones are of a fibrous texture, the fibres branch differently in different bones; in fat ones, the fibres are radiated; in the cylindric kind, they fhoot towards the extremities; in thofe of a fplierical fhape, quaque v erf am. They form la- mellce, or plates, which are moff confpi- cuous in young fubjefts, or growing bones, and are quite evanefcent in old age ; in it they appear compaft, but the fibrous texture may be feen when burnt. Bones fhoot either in membranes, or M *carti-$6 Of Bone. ^cartilages; and + offification firfi takes place in the centre, and is continued to the extremities. By this means we per- ceive why the rickets affe£l the joints principally, owing to the flownefs of of- fification in them, in general; and in a weak hate, fo much more fo, as to oc- cafion difeafe. They are divided into a middle, and two extremities, the middle is called di- afihyfis, the extremities epiphyfes; the lat- ter form the joints, and receive the ter- mination of mufcles. By this means they afford a more advantageous attachment for the teridons, and remove the mufcles from the centre of motion; in this man- ner, giving them a greater power of ac- tion, than could otherwife have been ob- tained. Bones confifl of two kinds of fubftance, Animate, and Inanimate. The firfi, is the vafcular part. * Nelbitt is of opinion, they flioot in mem- branes. Kirckftenius, Ilewfon, and Falconar, are of o- « pinion, they tlioot in cartilages. f OJJification from os, bone, and facio to make the iormation of bone. The. , Of Bone. 91 t • , * The fecond is the earth, which is de~ pofited in the interfaces of the bones. Of all other parts of the body, bones at firft fight, have the lead appearance of organization ; they have by many been fuppofed to be mere concretes. They are not fo, but are evidently organized. They have arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatic velfels. The arteries enter at all parts of the bone, and are for nu- trition, and fecretion ; aiding ex officio, as a gland, by depofiting the earth. The abforbents perform the fame office here, as in other parts of the body ; may not therefore the rickets be fometimes owins\ not to a deficiency of the fecretion of earthy matter, but to a difpofition of the abforbents, to imbibe too great a quan- tity of it P And as rickets and fcro- fihula, are fometimes joined, we may hence reafonably infer this to be the cafe, efpecially in the laft mentioned perfons ; the latter difeafe being a depofition of calcareous matter in the lymphatic glands, as being too grofs to pafs them. The blood velfels of bones arp de- monflrable, by fteeping the bone in ve- getable, or mineral acid ; for which pur- pofe, the muriatic acid (i. e. ffir it of M 2 fea92 Of Bone. fa fait) is the belt. They are porous, for the admiffion or blood veffejs. . . n Bone in the adult human fubjett, is of a white opake colour, from the quan- tity of earth it contains; in old bones, the colour is different, from frefh ones; and the bones of young fubjefts are red- der, as having more blood veffejs m pro- portion to their cretaceous matter, prepared bones, the colour is different, from various caufes ; and it is different, in different parts of the fame bone. In fome animals, it is green, as the needle fifh; arid in birds, yellow. . The colour is altered, by animals feed- in? on madder, which ferves to prove tq ps,- the very great vafcularity of bone. Chemical Analyfis of Bone. Bones yield the fame elements, as all other animal fubftances, viz. phlegm, Ipi- rit, volatile fait, empyreumatic oil, and oarth If the * caput mortuum be burnt, in a clofe velfel, it gives ivory black; if • Caput mortuum in chemiftry, that thick dry matter! which remains after difl.llation of any filing but efpecially of minerals.Of Bone. 93 in an open one, a pure virgin earth, free of fait; hence its ufe in making + cupils. The earth, not only of bone, but of all other parts of the body, when it’s o- ther principles are deftroyed, ftill retains a flight degree of adhefion. This is the reafon, why fkcletons found in vaults, ap- pear perfeft:, but moulder away, on be- ing touched or expofed to the air. And the folidity of all bones, is in propor- tion, to the quantity of earth they con- tain. The tenacity of bone is derived, from the other fubltances. All bones are hollow,, and contain a- nimal oil, which is fuppofed to tranfude, to prevent the brittlenefs of the bone; but we are certain, it never does tranf- ude in the living body They are made hollow, to make us lighter, and by being fo, are more firm than if folid; the intention of nature, be- ing to give greater ftrength, with the fame number of fibres, and not for the lodgment of the marrow. Hence in birds, the bones are thin, the cavity large, and * Coppells or cupils, vefTels made of bone afhes for the purpofe of extra&in^ gold and Jilyer from metallic fubftances. annual94 Of Bo NE. annual plants, as corn, See. are proofs of this. When exfoliation takes place, it is from an injury done to the velfels, and not from an expofure to the air, as has been erroneoufly fuppofed: for example, the bones of birds are hollow, and con- tain a large quantity of atmofpheric air, which is carried into the bones from the lungs; by which means they are lighter, both for flying and flinging; they contain fcarce any marrow, and no periofteum. The cavities of cylindrical bones are cancellated, which is moft compaft in the centre, and more delicate towards the extremities ; coarfer towards the furface, , and reticular, on the axis. In flat bones, as thofe of the fkull, the cancellated ftruc- ture, between the two plates, is called, diploe. In fome fubjefts, and in many parts, this cancellated Arufture is want- ing- The cavities of the bones and their fi- bres, being at a diftance, enables them to refill a force to break tranfverfely. Bones are not fcnfible in a found fiate, but highly fo in difeafe. The rcafon why bones are fo little fen Able is, becaule they have but few nerves, and becaufe ... " ' f«nfi»Of Bone, 95 fcnfibility would have been inconvenient. We divide bones into four claffes. In the firft are all long bones, as thofe of the extremitiesi The fecond contain thofe of the head* Thefe confift of two plates, and a middle fubftance, the firft is the exter- nal, or cortical part, the middle fub- ftance is the diploe, of which we have taken notice before, and the o- ther is the internal, or vitreous part. In the third are included the fphero- idal bones, viz. The patella, The bones cotnpofmg the hand and foot. The offa fejfamoidea, which are found near the joints. Thefe are all covered by a ftrong li- gamentous membrane, to prevent a frac- ture by the mufcles, which might other- wife happen, in jumping or other exercife. The fourth clafs confifts of the irregu- lar bones, viz. The fcapula, Vertebrae, Os facrum, and Offa innominata. To thefe might be added, the ribs which95 Of Bone. which are improperly claffed with the cy- lindrical bones* . Bones have eminences of different kinds, which are diflinguifhed by differ- ent names ; we (hall mention their names to you, and alfo the derivation and fig- nification of them, as by thefe means, we hope they will be rendered, not only more clear, but alfo more eafily retain- ed. * Head. \ + Condyle. J Tuberofity. § Corona. || Spine. H Supercilium. ** Labrum. Bones have proceffes, to give them the neceffary fhape, for articulation alfo, and « * A round procefs with a neck, this always denotes the upper extremity of the bone. f From the greek word, condulos, properly ap- plied to the joints of the finger, it alfo fignifies an oblong procefs, from the fore to the back part of the bone, ufed in a ginglimus joint. J A rough, knotty eminence. § A fharp, thin procefs ; alfo acrift. || From /pina, a thorn ; a long, fharp procefs. *j[ A brow. ** A lip. forOf BONEi 97 Tome of them are levers, for giving ad- vantageous attachment to mufcles. The proceffes are, * Apophyfis, and + Epiphyfis. There are alfo cavities in bones, the, fifes of which are, for articulation, and for giving lodgment to foft parts: they are the following, J Cotyle, § Acetabulum, ' |j Glene, II Alveoli, ** FoJJ'a, » t . . j 3 * From the greek word apopkuo, produce, p procefs growing out, from the furface of the bone. f Fr.onl the greek word epipkuQ, accrefco, to grow to, being a diftindf offification in young fub-. jedls, which afterwards growing to the body of the bone, makes it perfedt. $ From the greek word kotule, a cup, a round! deep cavity. § The fame. || From the greek word gtene; it properly %r!_ fies, the focket of the eye, but is alfo ufed to eai- prefs, a /hallow cavity in a bone, as cotyle does a deep one, 51 The Cockets in which the teeth are placed. ** Properly fignifies, a ditch, but is ufed to ex- prefs a deep cavity, between two bones. N' ff Groozle,98 Of Bone. 1 Groove, Sinus, §§ Sinuofty, Hole, '' (HI Canal, Hf Furrow. Bones are combined in two ways, wz, articulation, and connexion. By articulation, we mean the forms of the parts intended to come in contaft; and the relation they bear to one ano- ther Connection, means the binding by fome other fubflance. Galen divided articulation into arthron and fymphifis; the firft is again divided,, into diarthrofis, and fynartkrofis. * Diarthrofis, fignifies that kind of ar- ticulation, which gives to the joints con- fiderable motion: it is fubdivided into ft A deep channel in any bone. A cavity in certain bones, the entrance of which is very narrow, and the bottom wider add more fpacious. §§ A feries of bends and turns, fometimes jet* ting out, and fometimes falling in. 1111 A dudt, or paffage, for any thing. HIT The fame as groove. • From the greek words dia, cum, with, and arthron, membrum. . t cnar*99 Of Bone, * ' f enarthrofis, arthrodia, and ^ginglimus 1 The firft is the term, proper to joints' rftoving in all directions. The fecond is the fame as enarthrofis. The third is a fpecies of articulation, fignifying flexion, and extenfion, in one dire&ion. ' ' . f # / The fecond divifion of arthron, is into ^ fyriarthro/is ; this comprehends a fpecies of articulation, having no particular mo- tion : it is fubdivided into futura, har- monia, and |.| gomphofis. The firft is applied to' the articulation of the bones of the head. The fecond, is, where the furfaces of the two bones, fo exa&ly correfpond with each other, that they leave no interme- diate fpace. The third is, where the bone is dri- ven in like a nail, as the teeth in the jawbone. The fecond principal divifion of arti- culation, is into f fyniphifis, or fynthefis; * % f From the greek words, en, ,and arthron. i From the greek word giggiumos, cardo por- ta?,. the hinge of a door. § From the greek words, Jim, and arthron. If. From the greek words, gomphos, clavus, a nail. H From the greek word, Juntithemi, compono. N. 2 this'igo Of Bone. this denotes the connexion, or binding of bones by other fubftances: it is divid- ed into * fynneurofis, +fynchondrofis, and Xfl/farcofis, The firft denotes, the connexion of bones by ligaments, which were by the Greeks called nerves. The fecond, is the union of bones by cartilage, as the epiphyfes, to the bodies • of the bones. ' • , The third, is the union of bone by fnufcle only, as the fcapula of the qua- druped. But in the human body, we have no inffance of this fpecies of arti- culation. It is to be obferved, that great firm- yicfs in joints, and great extent of mo- tion, are incompatible ; and therefore one of them is generally found to be pro- cured, at the expence of the other: for example, arthrodia, is weak; ginglimus, prong. The different fpecies of articulation * From the greek words, yin, cum, with, and neuron, nervus, a nerve. From the greek words, fun, cum, and Aon- x’ros cartilago, a cartilage. X From the greek words, fun, cum, and fax, caro, flelh.Of Bone. lOl being defcribed, it may be proper to take iome notice, of’ the difeafes of the joints, in this place.* They are generally, lux- ations, fubluxations, and anchylolis. A * luxation is the effeft of a remo- val of the bone, forming any joint of the body, from it’!s proper cavity, or articu- lation : and it may proceed from feve- ral caufes, either internal, or external. The internal caufes are, difeafe in the head of the bone, or in any of the li- gaments, or cartilages, by which it is connefted ; the external caufes producing luxation may be various. Luxations imT mediately produced, and before any in_ flammation is come on, may be difcover- ed by the dire&ion of the limb ; as for example, when the fuperior end is out- wards, the inferior end will be inwards, and vice vtrfa. It may alio be known by the length of the limb. In order to reduce luxations, in gene- ral, it is only necelfary to place the limb, and indeed the whole body, fo far as it may influence the direclion of the limb, in the greatefl bate of relaxation, and by this means, and a gradual extenfion, * * ' * From luxo.. to disjoint.Of Bone. 102 the bone will be reduced, In luxations, the capfular ligaments are fometimes lacerated, but in this cafe, the parts are generally difeafed. The fymptoms attendant on luxations are various, but in general there is a der fedlive motion of the limb, or a total lofs of motion, a diftention of fome of the mufcles, and a relaxation of others, at- tended with exquifite pain. + Subluxations are the incomplete Bate of the difeafe, we have juft defcrib^ ed, and will generally yield more readi- ly than the former. In cafe of tumour, or inflammation, at- tending thefe complaints, they muft be removed, before attempting the redu&i- on of the limb; and after it is reduced, care (hould be taken, by reft and an eafy pofition, to retain it in it’s proper fitua- tion. The joints are particularly fubje£l to a difeafe, called a fprain, occafioned by a violent diftraftion of the parts, fur- rounding the limb, and attended with confiderable pain, and for fame time with great weaknefs, owing tb the very f Subluxations, partial diflocations. greatOf Bo NE. 103 great relaxation which takes place. We recommend an embrocation, with diddl- ed vinegar, crude fal armoniac, and lau- danum, to be ufed freely. Subjlanccs are fometimes contained in the cavity of a joint, requiring an ope- ration to extract them; to perform this, an affiftant is to hold the extraneous mat- ter, firm to the fide of the joint, and yon are then to make an incifion, through the capfular ligament, and into the joint, in a valvular direflion ; with the forceps extract it, and clofe the orifice. The * anchylofis, is very frequently the cure of a more difagreeable difeafe. In this cafe, nothing is to be attempted. The complaint is occafioned by the bones growing together, deftroying the motion of the limb, and may be produced by va- rious difeafes of the limb From 'what- ever caufes it may have arifen, it is -ve- ry difficult of cure. If from a rigidity *>f the tendons, emollient applications, fuch as the ol. ped. bovum. may be tried. Dr. Lobb recommends the yolk of an egg and water, by way of liniment to the part. * From the greek word ankulos, curvus, crook- ed. On104 / On the Marrow. <* , WE are next to defcribe the fubftance, found in the cavities of bones. Marrow, is found in the cavities of all bones, it confifts of a congeries of cells, and forms a part of the glandula^dipofa. It appears differently, in different parts of the fame bone. Hence it’s divifion in- to medulla, and fuccus medullar is; the medulla being that part which is folid, and contained in the middle of the bone ; and the fuccus medullaris, the thin part, which is contained in the cells of the ex- tremities. And it is to be noted, that thefe parts of all long bones; are more vafcular than their centre. The cells in which the marrow is lodg- ed, are furrounded by plexus’s, of fmall blood veffels. In a found ftate, the marrow is not acutely fenfible, but is highly fo in dii- eafe. It’s ufe is, as a refervoir of nourifh- nient, and not to prevent the brittlenefs of bone, as has been erroneoufly fuppof- ed. In proof of which, the absorption that takes place in long- continued drop-I On the Marrow.' 105 fies, in which difeafe, not one particle of animal oil is to be found in the bones, fhe whole being reabfbrbed ; and this is the only difeafe, that reabforbs the whole of it. And untill the human fubjeft is five or fix years old, though ever fo fat, fcarce any animal oil, is found in the bones." The marrow in hfiman fubjefts, is th£ fame as in hogs; it is faid to tranfude through the bones into the joints; this is not true, tranfudation n’ever takes' place in' the living body. Difeafes of the Marrow. TH E marrow is fubjeff to the famd difeafes, that all other vafcular fub- ftances are, viz. inflammation, and fup- purationthz fpina ventofd, is in confe- quence of the latter. Of the Periofleum. THE next fubjeft for our confider- ation, as an appendage, and imme- diately connefted with bone, is the mem-’ ^ branei106 Of the Periosteum. brane inverting it, and called periojlcurrh It’s ftru&ure is of a white, compaft, ligamentous, or tendinous nature ; more vafcular than ligaments, has arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatic vertels, for the ufe of bone. Mr. Falconar thought it confirted of different layers, the external he fuppofed adventitious, as being an expanfion of the tendons and ligaments. But we are of opinion there is no true periorteum, that it is ex officio, a gland, having one centre of ramification. It has fome fen- fibility in a found ftate, and is very fen- fible in difeafe. The periorteum has been faid, to make a general covering to the fkele- ton, but this idea is not perfe&ly juft. Mr. Falconar faid, it might be demon-* fixated in the internal cavities of fome bones, and it very probably exifted in all; hence an internal periorteum has been deferibed, but we do not believe any fuch fubftance exifts. The ufes of this membrane are, to give fmoothnefs to bone, lertening the friclion of foft parts, allowing of blood vertels to be divided into fmall branches, for en- tering the bone at all parts ;• it gives a moreOf the Periosteum. 107 more commodious attachment to mufcles, and being continued over the epiphy- fis’s, firmly connefts them with the body of the bone. In the fllken fozcl, from the coaft of Guinea, the periofteum is black. Difeafes of the Periofleum. TH E difeafes of the periofleum, are; inflammation, and the confequen- ces attending it; but it fuppurates un- kindly, therefore whenever there is a flu- id under it, we advife you to let it out as foon as pofhble, to prevent it’s thick- ening near the bone. In venereal nodes, which originate here, cut down through it, with the knife, and drefs with mercurial ointment, and black foap; the latter of which atts as a fli- mulus, and on this principle, brings on a fuppuration and better difcharge, than might otherwife be expe&ed. It fometimes Houghs, and the bones are affe&ed in confequence of it.T Of Cartilages. WE proceed to defcribe thelaft fub- ftances connefted with the bones, viz. the cartilages and ligaments. Cartilages are white or pearl coloured elaftic fubftances, and fupply the place of bone, and are of three different claffes. The firft are thofe that fupply the place of bone in the adult, as in the 'ear, nofe, larynx. &c. Thofe of the fecond, fupply the place pf bone, in the early part of life, till bone can be formed. i • | t * i ‘ The third form articular cartilages, pr thofe crufts, which cover the ends of bones, where they make a proper configuration of them, adapted to form joints. They are covered by a kind of 'membrane, called perichondrium, are pioveable in the lower jaw, fernum, and clavicle; and in the knee, where they are called femilunar, or razor-like cartilages. ' The; ftru&ure o.f the different claffes, ;s different. * Thofe of the firft clafs, are covered with a ligamentous membrane, ftmilar to ; 1 ' ‘ • " theGf Cartilages. 109 ]bhe periofteum; have blood veftels, which are fmall and numerous; have alfo nerves, are little fenfible, and not lubjeft to dif- eafe : they bear preffure better than other parts. Thofe of the fecond clafs, are covered by that periofteum which afterwards in- .vefts the bones, and are very vafcular, ad- mitting arteries, veins, and lymphatic .veftels. Thofe of the third clafs, are very e- Jaftic and compact, and have no veftels, that can be demonftrated; yet probably, are not inorganic ; have fibres that Hand like needles at right lines, meeting each other; may be feparated by maceration, are infenfible, and have no perichondri- um. The ufes of thefe are, to give fmooth furfaces, to make motion eafy, to prevent abrafion, and to break the force of collifion, on the fame principle as coaches are hung. They are not fub- jeft to difeafe, but may be deftroyed by difeafes in the neighbouring parts; dq not pullulate, but become black, and fiough by expfoure to the air ; it is there- fore neceftary when they are wounded, to fcrape them oft', but not otherwife. There is a fpecies of ligaments. which j i : . i .. ' , . arejio Of Cartilages, are immediately conne&ed with the bones, to be deferibed in this place. They are diftinguifhed by different names, adapted to their different forms, and ufes, Thofe of the joints are called, either round, or burfal; are white, tendinous, and inelaftic ; they are ftrong, and flexi- ble, and are found only in the joint of the knee, and in the articulation of the os fe~ Vions, with the os inominatum. The burfal, or capfular ligaments, furround the whole joint, like a purfe; and are to be found, in the articulations, which allow of motion every way. They contain the fmovial fluid, their ftrufture is of the li- gamentous kind, and confifts of two lay- ers, different in their nature and origin, Thefe are diftinguifhed by the epithets, external and internal : the external one, confifts of the ligaments, which tie the bone together, and feems to be continued into the periofteum; the internal is a fmooth, delicate, thin, refle&eff membrane, extremely vafeufar, can be traced to the edges of the articular cartilages, but pro- bably is not continued over them. Its ufes are twofold, the external lay- er, gives ftrength, and prevents luxations ; theOf CAkTILAGES. lli \ the internal fecretes the finovia, for the lubrication of the joints. Difeafes of Bone. TH E general difeafes, to which bone is liable, we fhall treat of here, but the difeafes of particular parts, will be ta- ken notice of, in treating of the different parts of the ofteology. The difeafes of bone are, the rickets, fpina ventofa, mollities offium, and caries. The rickets is a difeafe of bone, from- k want of tone in the parts, and a due proportion of earth in the bone^ as ill this difeafe, they are chiefly compofed of watery fluids. When the fubjeft grows older, the earth is fecreted in larger quan- tities, than is neceffary ; and this appears to be the reafon, why rickety fubje&s are mod liable to the done ; a complaint, which we believe to be owing, to an ab- forption of the earth of the bones. The fpina ventofa, is caufed by an in- flammation and fuppuration of the mar- row, ‘ Mollities offium, is a difeafe, in which the bones become fo foft, as to ply to any i112 Diseases of Bone. any form ; and the patients generally void a large quantity of calcareous matter irt their urine, previous to the complaint’s appearing. Would not any diet, containing a larg- er proportion of earth than common, be of fervice in this difeafe ? And might not viagnefia, as the lead objectionable tejlacea, be given with advantage ? efpe- cilly as we know, that the earth in the bones, is conftantly changing ; the impure parts being continually abforbed, and new matter depofited in it’s room. In proof of this, Mr. John Hunter fed himfelf with madderi and during the time he was eating it, he obferved his urine depofit- ed calcareous matter, tinged with the Co- lour of madder. Caries are divided into a great vari- ety, by many authors; but we fhall on- ly mention, the complaint as it moft com- monly occurs, without giving the detail of the different fpecies, which has been very accurately done, by Mr. Petit, and the late prerfeffor Monro. The fymptoms attending- this difeafe,- are generally, a deep-feated pain in the bone, with a livid colour, aud fponginefs in the teguments; an ulcer continuing long-