ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS 34 The seventh edition was 1675, and the eighth was 1673, probably a misprmt for 1678. This is a small 8°, A to B*, merely a compilation of a few recipes from previous books. 1668 CHOICE AND EXPERIMENTED RECEIPTS in Physick and Chirurgery, as also Cordial and Distilled Waters and Spirits, Perfumes, and other Curiosities, Collected by the Honourable and truly learned Sir Kenelm Digby, Kt., Chancellour to Her Majesty the Queen Mother. Translated out of several Languages, by G. H. London, printed for the Author, and are to be sold by H. Brome, at the Star in Litte Britain, 1668. The second edition was 1675. Kenelm Digby was born in 1603 and died in 1665. He was one of the first fellows of the Royal Society, but seems to have been something of a mountebank, as Evelyn termed him. George Hartman was his steward according to Arber’s Term Catalogues, ii. 16. There is a portrait by Cross as frontispiece. This book is mainly medical and contains recipes, some of which are even more filthy and superstitious than those of any preceding books. ‘ A Sympathetick cure of the Tooth-ach. With an Iron-nail raise and cut the gum from about the Teeth, till it bleed, and that some of the blood stick upon the nail; then drive it into a woodden beam up to the head : After this is done, you never shall have the tooth-ach in all your life.’ 1669 THE CLOSET OF THE EMINENTLY LEARNED SIR KENELME DIGBY, KT., OPENED : Whereby is Discovered several Ways for making of Methe- glin, Sider, Cherry-Wine, together with Excellent Directions for Cookery, as also for Preserving, Conserving, Candying. Published by his Son’s Consent. London, printed by E. C. for H. Brome, at the Star in Little Britain, 1669. There is a portrait of Digby as frontispiece in this edition and the one of 1671. It is doubtful if the third edition (1677) had it. ,\n edition catalogued in the Bodleian as 1699 has 1669 on its title-page, but the third figure looks as if it had been altered with a pen. The title-page is a little different from the one given above.