ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS 19 By John Murrell Professor thereof. London, printed for Tho. Dewe, and are to be sold at his shoppe in St. Dunstons Church-yard in Fleete-street, 1621. In the course of his preface ‘ To all ladies and gentlewomen, and others whatsoever the author speaks of this book as ‘ an Addition to my former practise which I did attaine unto in my travels when I was in France, Italy, the Low-Countries, and divers other places ’. He speaks of his craft as ‘ Art and Mistery The book is printed within borders. The first part of it is A to G, in twelves, Aj being blank ; there are one or two misprints, e. g. A instead of B. The book of cookery has a separate title-page, and consists of A with 8 leaves, B with 12, C with 5 ; it is a reprint of the edition of 1617. The recipes of the ‘ Delightful Daily Exercise ’ are much like those of the ‘ Daily Exercise ‘ To sucket candy greene Lemons, a very cordial thing for the Stomake ‘ To make Premellies ‘ To make Oring chipps, a very cordial thing against the paine or wind in the stomacke ‘ To fry an egge as round as a ball There are plans of how sweets are to be arranged on the table. 1631 MURRELS TWO BOOKES OF COOKERIE AND CARVING. The fourth time printed witli new Additions. London, printed by M. F. for John Harriot, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet street, 1631. Each book has its separate title-page, and at the end is ‘A New Booke of Carving and Sewing V which also has its own title-page. The preface is dated July 20, 1630. In it the author disparages previous cookery books, ‘ the most of which nevertheless have instructed rather how to marre than make good Meate.’ The fifth edition was 1638, the sixth 1641, and the seventh 1650. There are not many new recipes in the book. One pleasant one is ‘ To bake a Quince or a Warden pie, so as the fruit may be reddc, and the crust pale and tender ’. At the very end is ‘ An excellent and much approved receit, for a long Consumption It consists of white snails kept in wine and then boiled in milk with sugar. ‘ This being duely made and taken accordingly, will with God’s lielpe recover the party being very weake and farre spent in this long lingering sicknesse.’ ^ Sec p. 2.