ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS 27 To those Persons of Honour and Quality, that presented many of these admirable Receipts at the feet of the Queens Majesty, the Publisher resigns them with his prostrate service whilst he breaths, and is W. M.’ In other editions the success of the book calls on the author to give it ‘ a new birth ’, i.’e. a new preface. W. M., when age will not suffer him ‘ to remain much longer in this troublesome world ’, claims to have transcribed these receipts into the Queen’s own book. ‘ The Pearle of Practice ’ is medical, and equals, if it does not exceed, any of its predecessors. For ‘a special water fora consump- tion ’ there are used a peck of snails, a quart of earthworms, and three gallons of strong ale. ‘ The soiling of a Dog that is hard and white, mixed with honey ' is recommended as an outward applica- tion to the throat. Superfluous hairs are removed by ' Cats dung that is hard and dryed, beaten to powder, and tempered with strong Vinegar The recipe for ‘ The Lady Gorings water for any Ague Sicknesse or foulenesse in the Stomach, and to purge the Blood ’ is, ‘ Take the Dung of a Stone-Horse that is kept in the stable when it is new made, mingle it well with Beer and a little Ginger, and a good quantity of Treacle, and distill it in an ordinary Still; Give of this a pretty draught to drink.’ ' A Queens Delight ’ is ‘ The Art of Preserving, Conserving, and Candying ’, but also contains some medical recipes. It tells how ‘ To make a Cake the way of the Royal Princess, the Lady Elizabeth daughter to King Charles the first ’, and how to make ‘ Lorenoes ’ and ‘ an Ipswitch Ball ’. A mysterious thing is ‘ A Receipt to make Damnable Hum ’, unless one knows that hum was a sort of strong ale, perhaps so named from the humming it caused in the head. A damnable hum must have been a drink of dangerous strength. ‘ The Compleat Cook ’ contains such interesting recipes as ‘ To make a Devonshire white-pot ’, ‘ To make a Outlandish dish ’ (hog's liver seasoned with aniseed), ‘The Jacobins Pottage’, ‘To make a Battalia Pye’, ‘To make a Stumpe Pye’, ‘The Countesse of Rutlands Receipt of making the rare Banbury Cake, which was so much praised at her Daughters (the Lady Chaworths) wedding ’, ‘ To make a fat Lambe of a Pig ’, ‘ To make poor Knights ’. 1655 HEALTHS IMPROVEMENT: or, Rules Comprizing and Discovering the Nature, Method, and Manner of Preparing all sorts of food used in this nation. Written by that ever Famous Thomas Muffett, Doctor in Physick ; Corrected and Enlarged by Christopher Bennett,