25 ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS Contra vim mortis, non est medicamen in hortis. London, printed by M. S. for Tho. Jenner at the South entrance of the Royall Exchange, London, 1653. This is a small quarto of 49 pages. The last two pages are wrongly put as 50, 51 in one of the British Museum copies, but are correct in the other. There was an edition of 1656 sold at Sotheby's a few years ago. The contents of the book are curiously arranged. There is first an engraving of the fruit or flower, and then follow recipes both in medicine and cookery which contain it. Thus the first engraving is of a lemon, and among the recipes are ‘ a lemmon sallet ’, ‘ Past of lemmons ’, ‘ To take away the Spots, or red Pimpels of the face’, ‘Sweet Bagges to lay amongst Linnen’, ‘To roste a Shoulder of Mutton with Lemmons ’. 1654 THE ART OF COOKERY. Refin’d and Augmented, containing an Abstract of some rare and rich unpublished Receipts of Cookery : Collected from the practice of that incomparable Master of these Arts, Mr. Jos. Cooper, chiefe Cook to the late King : With severall other practises by the Author, with an addition of Preserves, Conserves, &c., offering an infallible delight to all Judicious Readers. London, printed by F. G. for R. Lowndes at the White-lyon in St. Paul’s Church-yard, neer the West end, 1654. The preface says that the title-pages of some cookery books, ‘ like the contents of a weekly Pamphlet, promised much more than the Books performed,’ but the only thing likely to displease ladies in this book ‘ will be to see so many uncommon, and undeflour’d Receipts prostituted to the publique view, which might perchance . . . have been plac’d better among the paper-secrets in a few of your Cabinets ’. There are recipes to ‘ fry Skerroots ’, ‘ make a Paris-pie ’, ‘ a Pie answerable to the grand boyled meat, with 10 other pies belonging to the first ’. 1654 THE LADIES COMPANION, or, A Table furnished with sundry sorts of Pies and Tarts, gracefull at a Feast, with many excellent receipts for Pre- serving, Conserving, and Candying of all manner of fruits.