ENCxLISH COOKERY BOOKS 15 and 1656 have a table of contents, but no portrait and no borders. Hazlitt gives an edition of 1635. This book contains many tempting recipes. ‘ To make a Walnut, that when you cracke it, you shall find Biskets, and Carrawayes in it, or a prettie Posey written.’ ‘ To make an excellent Marmelate which was given Queene Mary for a New-yeares gift.’ ‘ To make another sort of Marmelate very comfortable and restorative for any Lord or Lady whatsoever.’ The following seems to be the remedy of the day for appendicitis. ‘ For one that is taken within the body, or any place. Take Rose cakes, aqua-vitae, and rose water, heate it on a chafindish of coales, lay it to the stomacke, they shall mend by God’s grace.’ 1614 THE PHILOSOPHERS BANQUET ; newly furnished and decked forth with much variety of many severall Dishes, that in the former Service were neglected. Where now not onely Meates and Drinks of all Natures and Kindes are served in, but the Names and Kindes of all disputed of. The second Edition, newly corrected and inlarged, to almost as much more. By W. B. Esquire. London, printed by T. C. for Leonard Becket, and are to bee solde at his shoppe in the Temple, neere the Church. 1614. The first edition of this book was entered in the Stationers’ Register of May 29, 1609, but no copy is known. The book, which is on the uses of foods and on many other topics, is famous for being the first to contain a quotation from Hamlet. Tire third edition was printed for Nicholas Vavasour in 1633. The original, Men-sa Philosophica, of which the first known edition is 1475, has been ascribed both to Sir Michael Scott and to Theobald Anguilbert, an Irish physician. According to a note in one of Sotheby’s cata- logues W. B. was probably the same person who published the ‘ Court of Good Counsel ’ in 1607, ‘ A Help to Discourse ’ in 1619, and a paraphrase of the tenth satire of Juvenal in 1617. Part of ‘ A Help to Discourse ’ is from ‘ The Philosophers Banquet ’. 1615 THE ENGLISH HUS-WIFE, Contayning, The inward and outward vertues which ought to be in a compleat woman. As, her skill in Physicke, Cookery, Banqueting-stuffe,