2 ENCxLISH COOKERY BOOKS between 1558 and 1586) as ‘ the booke of carvyng and twice by E. Allde as ‘ the booke of carving and sewing the first edition being without a date, the second dated 1613. These are each 12“; the former A to C in eights, the latter two A to C^ in eights. The book was added in 1597 to ‘ The second part of the Good Hus-wifes Jewell ’, and in 1631 to John Murrell’s ‘ Two bookes of cookerie and carving The book was edited for the Early English Text Society in 1868 by F. W. Furnivall. It begins with a list of terms which are to be used by the carver, e g. Lyft that swanne, unlace that cony, dysplaye that crane, dysfygure that pecocke, untache that curlew, alaye that fesande, wynge that patryche, mynce that plover, and so on. Later on the duties of the butler are laid down and a list of his wines given, viz. Reed wyne, whyte wyne, dared wyne, osey, capricke, campolet, renysche wyne, malvesey, bastarde, tyet, romney, mus- cadell, clarrey, raspys, vernage wyne, cut, pymente, and ypocras. The chamberlain’s duties are strange. ‘ The chaumberlayne must be dylygent & clenly in his offyce with his heed kembed & so to his soverayne that he be not reckeles & se that he have a dene sherte breche petycote and doublet. . . . And at morne whan your soverayne wyll aryse warme his shert by the fyre.’ After directions as to dressing and washing his sovereign, the chamberlain is ordered to ‘ take your leve manerly & go to the ch^Tche or chapell to your soveraynes closet & laye carpentes & cuysshens & lay downe his boke of prayers ’. He is then to return and make the bed, ‘ & bete the federbedde & the bolster, but loke ye waste no feders.’ After this ‘ se the hous of hesement be swete & dene & the prevy borde covered with a grene clothe and a cuysshyn ’. Later on, after putting the sovereign to bed, ‘ dryve out dogge or catte & loke there be basyn and urynall set nere your soverayne, then take your leve manerly that your soverayne may take his rest meryly.’ The book ends with the duties of the marshal and the usher who have to order the precedence of guests. 1539 the treasure of POORE MEN. This little book of 44 leaves contains recipes for aqua vitae and claret, but is mainly medical. 1539 THE CASTEL OF HELTHE, gathered, and made by Sir Thomas Elyot knight, out of the chief authors of Phisyke, whereby every man may knowe the state of his owne body, the preservation of helthe, and