35 ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS The book was reprinted in 1910. The peculiarity of the book is the number of recipes for making drinks. There are nearly fifty recipes for making meath, and as many for making metheglin, in addition to recipes for hydromel, stepony, bragot, strawberry wine, cock-ale, &c. There is a recipe for making tea with eggs, and a warning against leaving tea to stand too long. ‘ The water is to remain upon it no longer than whiles you can say the Miserere Psalm very leisurely.’ 1670 THE QUEEN-LIKE CLOSET or Rich Cabinet : Stored with all manner of Rare Receipts for Preserving, Candying and Cookery. Very Pleasant and Beneficial to all Ingenious Persons of the Female Sex. By Hannah Wolley. Printed for R. Lowndes at the White Lion in Duck-Lane near West-Smithfield, 1670. Other editions are 1672 (2), 1675 (3)> 1681 (4), 1684 (5). There is a frontispiece with five views of kitchen, distillery, &c. The third, fourth, and fifth editions have a supplement or ‘ A little of every- thing ’, separately paged and dated respectively 1674, 1680, and 1684. There is not much that is new in this book except a recipe ‘ To make Misers for children to eat in afternoons in Summer ’. At the end are directions for servants. The supplement contains the auto- biography of Mrs. Wolley, a letter-writer, &c. 1672 THE LADIES DELIGHT, or, a Rich Closet of Choice Experiments & Curiosities, con- taining the Art of Preserving & Candying both Fruits and Flowers : Together with The Exact Cook, or The Art of Dressing all sorts of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish. By Hannah Woolley. To which is Added : The Ladies Physical Closet ; or Excellent Receipts, and Rare Waters for Beauti- fying the F'ace and Body. London, printed by E. Milbourn, for N. Crouch, in Excha;nge- yVllcy over against the Royall-Exchange in Cornhil, 1672. This is a new edition in one volume of ‘ The Ladies Directory ’ and ‘ The Cooks Guide The frontispiece is the same as in the 1662 edition of ‘ The Ladies Directory ’. There was a German translation of this book printed at Hamburg in 1674. D 2