129 ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS crack it between the hinges of the dining-room door, but take it into the kitchen When sent on a wet day for a hackney-coach, he is not to get into it and ride home. ‘ This will render it uncom- fortably damp.’ ‘ Should a chamber maid be rung for in the night, she should fly to the room, with all speed, as soon as she hears it> and take her tinder-box with her. She may not be aware of the consequences of a moment’s delay. Many a life has been lost by the night-mare, for want of momentary assistance ; and a person who has just power to ring the bell, may be suffocated, whilst a maid stays to rub her eyes, light her candle, or adjust her cap. Her tinder-box, of course, ought to be in good order, and near her bed-side.’ ‘ Wages are now large, and it will afford a sufficient change of dress.’ 1800 (c.) THE NEW LONDON FAMILY COOK : or, Town and Country Housekeeper’s Guide, comprehending Directions for Marketing, with illustrative Plates, on a Principle entirely new ; General Observations, and Bills of Fare for every Week in the Year ; practical Instructions for preparing Soups, Broths, Gravies, Sauces and Made Dishes ; and for dressing Fish, Yenison, Hares, Butcher’s Meat, Poultry, Game, &c. in all their Varieties. With the respective Branches of Pastry and Confectionary, the Art of Potting, Pickling, Preserving, &c. Cookery for the Sick, and for the Poor ; Directions for Carving ; and a Glossary of the most generally received French and English Terms in the Culinary Art. Also a Collection of Valuable Family Recipes, in Dyeing, Perfumery, &c. Instructions for Brewing, Making of British Wines, Dis- tilling, Managing the Dairy, and Gardening. And an Appendix, containing general Directions for Servants relative to the Cleaning of Household Furniture, Floor-Cloths, Stoves, Marble, Chimney-Pieces, &c. forming in the whole a most complete Family Instructor. By Duncan Macdonald, late Head Cook at the Bedford Tavern and Hotel, Covent Garden : and Assistants. K