ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS 2Q in the Pastry Art, as that they may out-vie the best Forreign Pastry Cooks in all the World besides The book seems to be the one mentioned in London’s Catalogue of the most vendible books (1657) as ‘The French and English cooke, for exact making all sorts of pasts, pasties, Florentines, &c. ordering of French, Spanish, and Italian kickshawes, dressing, flesh, fowle, and fish ; with admirable sawces 12“ The first part of the book is a translation of Le Pastissier frarifois, which was published in 1653. An Amsterdam edition of 1655 has the same frontispiece as the English edition and the original of its preface. There are recipes for making Chossons, Flawns, Rattoones, Darioles, Poupelains, Tourrons, buttered Wiggs, Gamby Bisket, and the good Wives Tart or a Tart for a friend in a corner, all of which seem very good. The 55 ways of dressing eggs include ‘ an Omelet according to the newest mode, Oxford Gates, or the Covent Garden guise 1658 ARCH I MAGI RUS ANGLO-GALLICUS : or. Excellent & approved Receipts and Experiments in Cookery Together with the best way of Preserving. As also. Rare Formes of Sugar-works : According to the French Mode, and English Manner. Copied from a choice Manuscript of Sir Theodore Mayerne Knight, Physician to the late K. Charles. Magistro Artis, Edere est Esse. Printed for G. Bedell, and T. Collins, and are to be sold at their shop at the Middle-Temple-Gate, in Fleet-street, 1658. Sir Theodore Turquet de Mayerne was born at Mayerne, near Geneva, in 1573. He came to London in 1606, and was appointed physician first to the queen and then to the king. He died at Chelsea in 1655. Most, if not all, of the recipes are copied from earlier books. The compiler, w'ho doubtless invented the fiction of a Mayerne manuscript, in a learned preface quotes Plato and Plautus. 1660 THE ACCOMPLISHT COOK, Or the Art and Mystery of Cookery. Wherein the whole Art is revealed in a more easie and perfect Method, then hath been publisht in any Language, Expert and ready wayes