153 ENGLISH COOKERY BOOKS and every other Subject connected with Domestic Economy. By Mrs. Mary Eaton. Embellished with Engravings. Bunga^^ printed and published by J. and R. Childs. 1823. There is a portrait of the author as frontispiece, also an engraved title-page dated 1822 and a half-title. A new edition was published in 1849. The preface claims that the book is practical and different from most others, concerning which ‘ a young female, just returned from the hymeneal altar, is ready to exclaim on the first perusal, as the philosopher did who visited the metropolis. How many things are here which I do not want ’. The preface is full of interest. ‘ It is in general a good maxim, to select servants not younger than thirty.’ ‘ The master or mistress who wishes to enjoy the rare luxury of a table well served in the best stile, should treat the cook as a friend ; should watch over her health with peculiar care, and be sure that her taste does not suffer, by her stomach being deranged by bilious attacks. A small proportion of that attention usually bestowed on a favourite horse, or even a dog, would suffice to regulate her animal system.’ 1823 THE FOOTMAN’S DIRECTORY, and Butler’s Remembrancer ; or, the Advice of Onesimus to his young Friends : comprising Hints on the Arrange- ment and Performance of their Work ; Rules for setting out Tables and Sideboards ; the Art of waiting at Table, and conducting large and small Parties; Directions for cleaning Plate, Glass, Furniture, Clothes, and all other Things which come within the Care of a Man-Servant; and Advice respecting Behaviour to Superiors, Tradespeople, and Fellow-Servants. With an Appendix, comprising various useful Receipts and Tables. London, printed for the Author ; and sold by J. Hatchard and Son, 187, Piccadilly, 1823. There is a half-title. The author’s name, Thomas Cosnett, is given in an edition of 1825, which the preface says is the fifth. The book must have met with much success to have reached a fifth edition so quickly. There are a few cookery recipes in it.