134 - RATAFIA CREAM. \ oz. Cox’s gelatine. I 2 yolks of eggs. 2 gills of milk. 3 ozs ratafia biscuits. 1 gill of cream. ' 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. Soak gelatine for an hour in one gill of milk. Beat yolks and add the other gill of milk to them and the sugar. Cook slowly till the custard thickens but does not boil. Remove from the fire, and when slightly cool add the cream, also gelatine and milk, stirring till all is dissolved, when add the crushed ratafias. Pour into a wetted mould, and when set, turn out and garnish with chopped angeMca. Miss Frame, Birkenshaw, Cambuslang. RHUBARB SPONGE. 2 lb. loaf sugar. j 1 lemon. 1 lb. rhubarb (when leaves have 5- oz. isinglass. been removed). ] A few drops of cochineal. Whites of three eggs. Peel the rhubarb, and cut it into small pieces. Put the sugar and half a tumblerful of cold water into a stewpan, set over gentle heat, and when the sugar has been melted, put in the cut rhubarb, and simmer slowly until it is quite tender. Rub through a fine sieve into a bowl. Mix with it the grated rind, the juice of the lemon, the isinglass (previously dissolved in a little warm water), and sufficient cochineal to make it a pretty pale pink. Stir well for a few minutes, and then stand the bowl in a cold place. When the mixture is quite cold and beginning to thicken, whisk in the whipped whites of the eggs, and beat all together until it is thick and spongy. Pile the sponge high in a glass dish, and surround it with raspberry jelly or stewed pears. Miss Jenny Arthur, Pollokshields. RUSSIAN CREAM. 3 eggs. | 2 oz. Cox’s gelatine. 1 pint milk. I 2 teaspoonfuls essence of vanilla. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Soak the gelatine in a teacupful of tepid water for an hour. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat the yolks, and put in a saucepan with gelatine, milk, and sugar. Bring to the boiling point, but don’t boil. Add flavouring. Lift from the fire, stir in the whites of eggs, wet a mould and pour in the cream. Set in a cool place to firm. It is better made the night before using. Pour off any water not taken up by the gelatine. Miss Eadie, Langside.