133 ORANGE SNOW. 2 oranges. I 5 oi Cox’s gelatine. £ lb. sugar. | £ pint of water. a eggs. Dissolve gelatine in water and allow it to cool. Mix it with the orange juice, whites of eggs and sugar, and whisk all together till it is like snow. Pile roughly in a crystal dish, and serve with the following sauce round it:— 2 yolks of eggs. | Grated rind of £ an orange, i teacupful of milk. | i teaspoonful of sugar. Warm milk and sugar, pour over beaten yolks and rind of orange. Stir over fire till it thickens, and when cold pour round snow. ORANGE SPONGE. i oz. of sheet gelatine. 1 2 bitter oranges. 1 breakfastcupful of cold water. £ lb. lump sugar. 3 sweet oranges. | 3 eggs. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, placing it near a gentle heat, but on no account allow it to boil. In the liquid thus obtained place the sugar, and allow it to melt. Squeeze the oranges in a squeezer, and add the juice to the other ingredients. While this is cooling, separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, and beat up the latter very stiffly till they look like snow. Mix all the ingredients now, and continue whisking till thoroughly mixed. It must all be done very rapidly, so that none of the gelatine mixture becomes firm before being mixed with the whites of eggs. Wet a delf mould and pour the mixture in. It will become firm in a very short time, and can be easily slipped on to a glass dish. The yolks of the eggs may be made into a custard and eaten with the sponge, if desired. Mrs. Graham, Crosshill. PINEAPPLE CREAM. 1 tin preserved pineapple. I 1 oz. Cox’s gelatine. £ pint of water. 1 pint of cream. 6 ozs. of sugar. | A little milk. Pound in a mortar the contents of the tin of pineapple. Add the sugar and water. Put all in a saucepan and boil for a quarter of an hour, and then rub through a tammy or sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk, and mix it with the pineapple. Have the cream whipped to a froth and work the pineapple mixture quickly amongst it. Pour into a mould, and put aside till quite set. Mrs. Niven, 19 Woodrow Road, Pollokshields,