PR E F71 0 E «r Long ago dietetics occupied an exceedingly prominent place in social economics. The great Law-Giver himself did not disdain to put at large, and in plain terms, both the food which his countrymen were to partake of and the manner of its preparation ; and the Jews to this day, to their great advantage, act up to his directions. The early Greeks, the Mahommedans, and the Roman Catholics have had their appointed dietaries and seasons of fasts, all to their special advantage. With these exceptions, however, the subject was allowed by the world in general to fall into a strange condition of passive neglect, in which it remained for centuries. In fact, it is only within the last hundred years that spasmodic efforts have been made to galvanise some kind of life into the important questions of—How to Eat, and What to Eat;—and occasionally a medical man, who has generally been laughed at for his pains, and considered an old wife, has taken a particular interest in the matter. Now, again, people generally have become alive to the importance of good cookery, and at the present time are accompanied by hosts of medical men, scientists, and food-specialists, who are doing all they can to put dietary and cookery on a truly scientific and useful basis. We have all realised, some of us sharply, that a healthy mind has a great difficulty in existing in an unhealthy body, and that a healthy body has a great difficulty in existing on unsuitable diet. And to maintain the mens sana in corpore sano what better than the use of a good Cookery Book ? In connection with the Bazaar organised in aid of the Glasgow Samaritan Hospital for Women, some of the ladies responsible for the Hospital Stall decided to compile a Cookery Book, which they hoped would be creditable to themselves, useful to the purchasers, and a substantial help to the cause in which they were interested. The enterprise has the entire sympathy and support of the Medical Staff of the Glasgow Samaritan Hospital. The Committee considered themselves fortunate in securing such a thoroughly qualified editress as Miss Watson. She most willingly agreed to undertake the'somewhat arduous duties, and she has spared neither time nor effort to make the book a success ; the Committee gratefully acknowledge their indebtedness to her. The cordial thanks of the Committee are also due to Mr. Glendinning for permission to use recipes from the Appletree Cookery Book, to the many ladies who sent recipes, which, from their own experience, they know to be useful, and to the friends who in other ways gave valued assistance. J. Stuart Nairne, F.R.C.S.