52 SCOTCH HAGGIS. A VERY OLD RECIPE. A sheep’s pluck aftd stomach bag. i lb. of oatmeal. £ lb. oi suet. 2 or 3 onions. Salt and pepper. Take the stomach bag ard wash it until perfectly clean with cold water, then turn it outside in, scald it and scrape it with a knife quickly, and put it in salt and water till needed. Parboil the liver, lights, and heart of a sheep ; grate the liver and mince the other parts quite fine, mince also the suet, and toast the oat- meal thoroughly before the fire. Mix all these ingredients together, season them with salt and pepper, then fill the bag, and before sewing it up put in a little water in which the onions have been boiled, which will give sufficient flavour. Sew up the bag, which must not be full as the oatmeal swells consider- ably, and prick it all over with a needle to prevent it bursting. Put it into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover, place a small pla'e under and boil for 4 or 5 hours, keeping the haggis constantly covered with boiling water. Mrs. Stuart Nairne, 141 Hill Street, Glasgow. 1 rabbit. 3 oz. cooked ham. 2 hard-boiled eggs. RABBIT PIE. 1 teaspoonful of salt. £ teaspoonful of pepper. £ teaspoonful of mixed herbs. 1 teacupful of stock. Boil the eggs for 20 minutes and put them in cold water for a little, then remove the shells and cut them in slices. Soak the rabbit in tepid water to draw out the blood. Take out the heart, liver, and any fat, and cut into joints. Dry on a towel and remove the skin from the back, and take out the side bone, which use with the head, liver, etc., to make the stock. Put a few pieces of rabbit into a pie dish, mix the salt, pepper, and herbs together and sprinkle a little over, and then a few pieces of ham and some egg, arranging all neatly; then the remainder of rabbit, ham, seasoning and egg. Pour in the stock or water and cover with the following :— Pie Crust. £ lb. Hungarian flour. 6 ozs. butter. A few drops of lemon juice. A pinch of salt. A little cold water. Cut the butter in pieces and put it into a basin with the flour,