46 the egg. Be careful that the stuffing is not too wet. Put this on the beef and roll it up and bind with tape. Put a skewer through it and roast. This may be roasted and served with the usual accompaniments to roast hare, or stewed and served with a rich thickened gravy and garnished with forcemeat balls. Make a little extra stuffing for the balls. M. B., Queen’s Park. REAL IRISH STEW. 3 or 4 lbs. mutton, scrag end I Onions, or neck. | Potatoes. Seasoning. Take a piece of mutton, 3 or 4 lbs. scrag end or neck, cut it in neat pieces, removing some of the fat; then season these pieces with salt and pepper and place them in saucepan with just enough water to cover them, and simmer this very gently for half an hour. Now pour this liquor off into a basin, and place it in another basin filled with cold water, and let it cool till the fat rises and forming a cake on the top can be entirely removed. Meanwhile boil twice the weight of potatoes that you have of trimmed meat for a quarter of an hour; then peel and slice them. Blanch 2 or 3 onions for each lb. of meat, or less if pre- ferred, after peeling them slice crossways so that they drop into rings. Now cover the bottom of a pan with the sliced vege- tables, then place in a layer of meat, and again more vegetables, packing it all pretty closely and seasoning plentifully with salt and pepper. Pour over it all the liquid in which the meat was originally cooked, allowing this liquid, to which, if necessary, a little more water or bone stock may be added, to just cover the top layer. Cover the pan down tightly, and simmer for hours, being careful that it never boils hard at any time. If properly cooked, the potatoes and onions will be in a soft mash when served, neither liquid nor hard lumps. This method obviates the grease, so often an objection to Irish stew not properly prepared. Miss Wade OX HEART WITH 1 ox heart, i lb. breadcrumbs. I lb. suet, chopped. 1 small teaspoonful ground cinnamon. SWEET STUFFING. 2 ozs. Sultana raisins. A small nutmeg, grated. J teaspoonfnl between salt and pepper. 1 egg.