GOSSIP. By LADY MARIE MONTAIGNE. Hundreds of women have lately written to me, complaining of their bad skin, and from time to time I have been able to advise them, with good results. Among the best cures I have come across recently is the Hygienic Skin Cream, made by Mr. M F. Thompson (of Gordon Street, Glasgow) This, used in con- junction with some special powders, has a wonderful effect on pimples and blotches. Eruptions and irritation of the skin generally disappear under its use, and being genuinely homoe pathic, they are quite harmless. Thompson’s Hygienic Skin Soap should be in daily use in the dressing-room to aid the above cure. Mr. Thompson is a true friend to womenkind in general, for he understands exactly what is needed, both for comfort and the culture of beauty too. His preparations are so numerous that it is impossible to speak of them all in a limited space ; but I should advise everyone to send for his dainty little books on beauty and the toilet, which he will send post free. For bad corns, the New French Corn Plaster is invaluable; neuralgia is made to fly under the effects of Nervetonine; and the Arsenical Pearls for the complexion are well worth a trial. As for the perfumes sold by this clever specialist, I am sorry I can only mention the Coronation Bouquet. This is simply irresistible, and all lovers of good and delicate scents should at once send 3s. 6d. for a bottle. It would, by the way, make a delightful little Christmas or Birthday gift. Editor “ British Monthly ” says :—There are many excellent preparations on the market of Mr. Thompson’s, the best known being, perhaps, his Nervetonine, an excellent tonic for all nervous affections, neuralgia, sleeplessness, indi gestion, and other ailments. It is not unpleasant to take, and the smallness of the dose (from five to ten drops in water) makes it a most commendable tonic. Many grateful letters have been received by Mr. Thompson from those who have derived benefit from Nervetonine. M. F. Thompson’s t! Concise Guide to Health, and how to keep the Skin Beautiful,” free on receipt of id. to cover postage, from Thompson’s Pharmacy, 17 Gordon Street, Glasgow.