OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 21 f PI. II. & III. and PI. V. row l, 2, 3, 4. * PI. III. f. 1, 2. ternal edge. The canine tooth, which we shall call cuspidatus, is the point from which the two edges go off, so that the first grinder, or what we shall call the first bicuspis, is the first tooth that has a double edge*. Of the Number of the Teeth. Their number in the w'hole, at full maturity, is from twenty-eight to thirty-two : I once saw twenty-seven only; never more than thirty-two. Fourteen of them are placed in each jaw when the whole number is no more than twenty-eight, and sixteen when there are thirty-two. If the whole be twenty-nine or thirty-one in number, the upper jaw some- times, and sometimes the lower, has one more than the other; and when the number is thirty, I find them sometimes divided equally be- tween the two jaws; and in other subjects sixteen of them .are in one jaw and fourteen in the other. In speaking of the number of teeth, I am supposing that none of them have been pulled out, or otherwise lost; but that there are from eight to twelve of those*1 large posterior teeth, which I call grinders, and that they are so closely planted as to make a continuity in the circle; and in this case, when the number is less than thirty- two, the deficiency is in the last grinder. The teeth differ very much in figure from one another, but those on the right side in each jaw resemble exactly those on the left, so as to be in pairs ; and the pairs belonging to the upper jaw nearly resemble the corresponding teeth of the lower jaw in situation, figure, and usef. Each tooth is divided into two parts, viz. first, the body, or that part of it which is the thickest, and stands bare beyond the alveoli and gums; secondly, the fang, or root, which is lodged within the gum and alveolar process : and the boundary between these two parts, which is grasped by the edge of the gum, is called the neck of a tooth. The bo- dies of the different teeth differ very much in shape and size, and so do their roots. The difference must be considered hereafter. The teeth of each jaw are commonly divided into three classes, viz. In- cisors, Canine, and Grinders ; but from considering some circumstances of their form, growth, and use, I choose to divide them into the, four following classes, viz. Incisores, commonly called fore teeth ; Cuspidati, vulgarly called canine ; Bicuspides, or the first two grinders; and Mo- lares, or the last three teeth. The number of each class in each jaw, for the most part is four incisores, two cuspidati, four bicuspides, and four, five, or six molares.