OF THE LUES VENEREA. 391 had arisen from that source none of them would have disappeared. He now informed me that he had been taking mercury ; and this info.mation obliged me to have recourse to further inquiries; and I therefore asked him whether, while he was taking mercury, many of the first got well ? The answer was, yes. And was the cure of those imputed to mercury ? The answer was again in the affirmative. I then asked him if, while he was taking the mercury, which appeared to have cured some, those that now remained arose ? Yes. My next question was, how long had he taken mercury ? He said for six months. I then declared they were not, nor ever had been venereal. I asked him, what was now the opinion of his surgeon ? He said, that his opinion still was that they were ve- nereal, and that he should go on with the mercury. I advised him to take no medicines whatever; to live well, avoiding excess, and to come to me in three weeks; which he did, and then he was perfectly well, only the skin was stained where the blotches had been. He now asked me what he was next to do ? I told him he might go to the sea and bathe for a month. This he did, and returned well and healthy, and has continued so*. §.3. Of the local Effects arising from the Constitution con- sidered as critical.—Symptomatic Fever. How far the eruptions or local effects of this disease, arising from the constitution, are an effort of Nature to clear herself of this disease is not certain. I observed that a gonorrhoea might be produced by a general law in the animal oeconomy, by which it endeavours to relieve itself of the irritation by producing a discharge ; and that in chancres a breach is made in the solids for the same purpose, although this pur- pose is not answered in either; Nature not having a provision against this poison. But how far a similar attempt takes place in a lues vene- rea I do not know; and if it was upon the same principle, the same reason might be expected to be given why the constitution is not ca- pable of relieving itself in the present instance that I gave when treat- ing of the primary affections, because in this, as it was in the other, the matter formed might be supposed to be venereal; and therefore by being absorbed by the very surface which produced it as in a chancre, it might * Added: “The impropriety of giving mercury where the case is not venereal, to indulge the wishes of the patient, is obvious, since it is confirming his suspicions, in- juring his constitution, and, when the medicine fails, making him believe himself incu- rable, since the symptoms have not yielded to the only medicine capable in his opinion of removing them.’’—Home.