474 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. on the hands and feet, where the cuticle peeled off. Upon the first ap- pearance of these I was a little staggered ; but, as the sore was healing, I was unwilling to give credit to the appearance, and therefore begged that nothing might be done ; and they all got well. From the general outline of these cases, one would naturally have said they were venereal; but the particular circumstances being all in- vestigated, and the whole taken together, led me to suppose that they were not, and the event proved that to be the case. The following case was communicated by Mr. French, of Harpur- street. “ June the 9th, 1782, a gentleman applied to me for an ulcer which was seated on the glans penis, attended with excessive pain. Knowing him to be an intemperate man, and learning from himself that during a state of intoxication he had been connected with a woman, I judged the complaint to be venereal. He was now in a feverish state, and unfit for the exhibition of mercury: I therefore prescribed for him decoction of bark, with elixir of vitriol and tinctura thebaica, proportioned to his pain. I directed him to abstain from every kind of fermented liquor, to live chiefly upon milk, and to wash the ulcer with a liniment composed of equal parts of oil of almonds and aqua sapphirina. “ About the 17th of the same month, some check having been given to the fever, the sore looking cleaner, and his pain having abated, I ordered him small doses of argentum vivum and extract of hemlock. “ July the 4th, finding the mercurial course to disagree, I ordered three grains of the extract of hemlock to be taken two or three times a day, and the decoction of bark to be taken as before, with twenty drops of tinctura thebaica, which was gradually increased to sixty, at bed-time. “ The ulcer had spread very much during the mercurial course, and had now destroyed half the glans penis. “ October 1st, Mr. Hunter was consulted, and ordered the patient to add the powder of sarsaparilla to the decoction of bark, to take lauda* num freely, and wash the sores with tinctura thebaica. Soon after be- ginning this course the remainder of the glans penis sloughed off, the parts gradually healed, and health was restored. “ There were two other symptoms in this case which deserve to be taken notice of: a considerable.enlargement of the scalp on the right side of the os frontis, and on the left parietal bone, attended with ex- cessive pain, and vibices resembling the sea-scurvy on the inside of the left tibia, both of which disappeared in the course of the cure. “ Some months after, the tumor in the head returned, and several abscesses were formed, which were opened, and the cranium found ca- rious to a great extent. On account of the pain, he has for some months