169 OF GONORllIICEA. canal. How far it ever can be said ter affect the prepuce only I am not quite certain, although I believe it sometimes happens; for I have seen inflammation there, as well with as without a discharge from the ure- thra, which appeared to me to be venereal. T have seen in such cases the inflammation extending into the loose cellular membrane of the prepuce, and producing a phimosis ; and this inflammation I suspect to be of the erysipelatous kind. When the disease attacks the glans and other external parts, as, for instance, the prepuce*, it is principally about the root of that body and the beginning of the prepuce, the parts where the cuticle is thin- nest, and of course where the poison most readily affects the cutis; but sometimes it extends over all the glans, and also the whole external surface of the prepuce. It produces there a soreness or tenderness, with a secretion of thinnish matter, commonly without either excori- ation or ulceration. I am not certain, however, that it does not some- times excoriate those parts, for I once saw a case where almost the whole cuticle was separated from the glans. The patient assured me that it was venereal, and, from the particular circumstances which he related, I had no reason to think his opinion ill founded. He never had had any such complaint from connexion with women before that time. Per- haps the disease begins oftener on those parts than is commonly ima- gined, but being defended by a cuticle, they are but little susceptible of this kind of irritation; and this may be the reason why a permanent effect is not produced, and why it is often so slight as not to be observed. When the glans or prepuce, or both, suffer the venereal inflammation, it often rests there, and goes no further, not being attended with a dis- charge of matter, nor with pain in the urethra. This the following case illustrates. A young gentleman from Ireland slept with a woman at Bristol, and a fortnight afterwards he had intercourse with another woman in London, which last happened to be on a Monday, and on the Tuesday, or the day following, he observed a discharge from the end of his penis when co- vered with the prepuce. On the Saturday following he applied to me. Upon examination, I found that the running came from the inside of the prepuce, near to the glans; and the corona glandis, as also that part of the prepuce which is behind it, appeared to be in a tender and exco- riated state, and covered with matter. He told me he had once had a gonorrhoea before, and upon being asked if it was in the same place, he said it was. Not being certain how far this might be venereal, I made the following inquiry : whether he had been subject to such excoriations * Inserted: “ I believe it is principally in those patients whose glans is commonly covered with the prepuce, and—”.—Home.