OF THE TEETH. 91 to be pulled out. That must be left to the judgment of the operator; but the following general hints may be of service. 1. If there is any one tooth very much out of the row, and all the others regular, that tooth may be removed, and the two neighbouring ones brought closer together. 2. If there are two or more teeth of the same side very irregular (as, for instance, the second incisor and cuspidatus), and it appears to be of no consequence, with respect to regularity, which of them is removed, I should recommend the extraction of the furthest back of the two, viz. the cuspidatus ; because, if there should be any space not filled up when the other is brought into the row, it will not be so readily seen. 3. If the above-mentioned two teeth are not in the circle, but still not far out of it, and yet there is not room for both, in such a case I would recommend the extraction of the first bicuspis, although it should be perfectly in the row, because the two others will then be easily brought into the circle, and if there is any space left, it will be so far back as not to be at all observable. The upper jaw is often rather too narrow from side to side, near the anterior part which supports the fore teeth, and projects forwards con- siderably over the lower, giving the appearance of the rabbit-mouth, although the teeth be quite regular in the circle of the jaw. In such a case it is necessary to draw a bicuspis of each side, by which means the fore part of the circle will fall back; and if a cross- bar was to be stretched from side to side across the roof of the mouth, between cuspis and cuspis, it would widen the circle. The fore teeth might also be tied to this bar, which would be a means of assisting nature in bringing them back. This has been practised, but it is troublesome. As neither the bodies nor the fangs of the teeth are perfectly round; we find that this circumstance often becomes a cause of their taking a twist; for, while growing, they may press with one edge only on the completely formed tooth, by which means they will be turned a little upon their centre. The alteration of these is more difficult than of the former, for it is, in general, impossible to apply, so long and constantly as is necessary for such an operation, any pressure that has the power of turning the tooth upon its centre. However, in the incisores, it may be done by the same powers which produce the lateral motion; but where these cannot be applied, as is frequently the case, the tooth may be either pulled out entirely, and put in again even, or it may be twisted round sufficiently to bring it into a proper position, as has been often prac- tised.