183 OF GONORRHOEA. inflammation abates. I have known a prick in the finger with a clean sewing-neeclle produce a red streak all up the fore arm, pain along the inside of the biceps muscle, a swelling of the lymphatic gland above the inner condyle of the humerus, and also of the glands of the arm-pit, im- mediately followed by sickness and a rigor, all which, however, have soon gone off. As it should therefore appear that the absorbent system is capable of being affected as well by irritation as by the absorption of matter, in all diseases of this system arising from local injuries at- tended with matter, one must always have these two causes in view, and endeavour, if possible, to distinguish from which the present affec- tion proceeds. For in those arising from an irritated surface in conse- quence of poison, especially the venereal, it is of considerable conse- quence to be able to say from which of the two it arises, since it some- times happens, although but seldom, that the glands of the groin are affected in a common gonorrhoea with the appearance of beginning bu- boes, but which I suspect to be similar to the swelling of the testicle, that is, merely sympathetic. The pain they give is but very trifling, when compared to that of the true venereal swellings arising from the absorption of matter, and they seldom suppurate. However, there are swellings of these glands from actual absorption of matter in gonorrhoea, and which consequently are truly venereal; and as it is possible to have such, they are always to be suspected. As they have sometimes arisen upon a cessation of the irritation in the urethra, similar to the swelling of the testicle, it has been supposed that the matter was driven, as it were, into them by unskilful treatment. From our acquaintance with the absorbing system we know that the matter can go that way; but wre also know that we have no method of driving it that way; and if we had, there is no reason why more should not be formed in the urethra. This therefore does not account for the cessation of secretion of matter in that part. It is difficult to say what is the nature of those sympathetic diseases. They are not venereal, for they subside by the common treatment of in-' flammation, without the use of mercury; and I have known an instance of a swelled testicle from a venereal gonorrhoea that suppurated, and was treated by my advice as a common suppuration, and healed without a grain of mercury being given. Neither can they be called truly in- flammatory, having rarely any of the true characters of inflammation, such as thickening of the parts, symptomatic fever, or sizy blood, except in swellings of the testicle and glands. The swelling of the testicle has several peculiarities attending it; it is often very quick in its in- crease, and not being of the true inflammatory disposition, it requires less time for the removal of the inflammation ; but even where it ap-