29 OF THE HUMAN TEETH. or macerated in water, so as to destroy the periosteum and adhesion of the teeth, we find the teeth so loosely connected with their sockets that all of them are ready to drop out, except the grinders, which remain, as it were, hooked from the number and shape of their fangs. Of the Gums. The alveolar processes are covered by a red vascular substance, call d the gums, which has as many perforations as there are teeth, and the neck of a tooth is covered by and fixed to this gum. Hence there are fleshy partitions between the teeth, passing between the external and internal gum, and, as it were, uniting them : these partitions are higher than the other parts of the gum, and form an arch between every two adjacent teeth. The thickness of that part of the gum which projects beyond the sockets is considerable, so that when the gum is corroded by disease, by boiling, or otherwise, the teeth appear longer, or less sunk into the jaw. The gum adheres very firmly in a healthful state both to the alveolar process and to the teeth, but its extreme border is naturally loose all around the teeth. The gum, in substance, has something of a cartilaginous hardness and elasticity, and is very vascular, but seems not to have any great degree of sensibility; for though we often wound it in eating, and in picking our teeth, yet we do not feel much pain upon these occasions; and both in infants and old people, where there are no teeth, the gums bear a very considerable pressure without pain. The advantage arising from this degree of insensibility in the gums is obvious, for till the child cuts its teeth the gums are to do the business of teeth, and are therefore formed for this purpose, having a hard ridge running through their whole length. Old people who have lost their teeth have not this ridge. When in a sound state, the gums are not easily irritated by being wounded, and therefore are not so liable to inflammation as other parts, and soon heal. The teeth being united to the jaw by the periosteum and gum, have some degree of a yielding motion in the living body. This circum- stance renders them more secure ; it breaks the jar of bony contact, and prevents fractures both of the sockets and of the teeth themselves. Of the Action of the Teeth, arising from the Motion of the Lower Jaw. The lower jaw may be said to be the only one that has any motion