OF TIIE LUES VENEREA. 434 ing, sweating, or an increased flow of urine, that it also goes off by these evacuations, which become outlets to the mercury. From the above experiments it appears to be immaterial what prepa- ration of mercury is used in the cure of this disease, provided it is of easy solution in our juices, the preparations easiest of solution being always the best. ยง.12. Of the Operation of Mercury on the Poison. Mercury may be supposed to act in three different ways in curing the venereal disease. First, it may unite with the poison chemically, and decompose it, by which means its powers of irritation may be de- stroyed ; secondly, it may carry it out of the constitution by evacua- tion ; or, thirdly, it may produce an irritation in the constitution which counteracts the venereal and entirely destroys it. It has been supposed that mercury acts simply by its weight in the circulating fluids, but of this we can form no adequate idea; and if it were so, other substances should act on this disease in proportion to their weight, and of course many of them should cure it. But from ex- perience we find that such bodies as have considerable weight, as most of the metals, have no effect on this disease. We have no proof of mercury acting by a decomposition of the poison from any of the con- comitant circumstances. Mercury certainly does not cure the venereal disease by uniting with the poison and producing an evacuation. For in those cases where mercury is given in such a way as to produce considerable evacuations, or in those constitutions where evacuations are easily excited by mer- cury, its effects upon the diseased action are the least; and the same evacuations produced by any other means have not the least effect on the disease. Whether the mercury be supposed to carry off the circulating poison or to decompose it, in neither way could it produce, when locally applied, any effect on a venereal inflammation or sore arising from the constitu- tion ; for as long as any of the poison existed in the circulation, none of them could be healed by local applications, the circulation constantly carrying the poison to them; but we find the contrary of this to be true, for a venereal sore arising from the constitution may be cured lo- cally. The last or third of our modes of action of mercury seems to me the most probable, and for many reasons. First, because the disease can in many cases be cured by raising a violent stimulus of another kind ; and