298 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. is perhaps the best instrument; but it must be fixed in the canal: this will be best done by its outer end being tied to some external body, as I shall now describe. When the catheter is fairly in the bladder, the outer end is rather inclined downwards, nearly in a line with the body. To keep it in this position we may take the common strap or belt-part of a bag-truss, with two thigh-straps either fixed to it or hooked to it, and coming round each thigh forwards by the side of the scrotum, to be fastened to the belt where the ears of the bag are usually fixed. A small ring or two may be fixed to each strap just where it passes the scrotum or root of the penis ; and, with a piece of small tape, the ends of the catheter may be fixed to those rings, which will keep it in the bladder. A bit of rag about four or five inches long, with a hole at the end of it, passed over the exterior end of the catheter, and the loose end allowed to hang in a bason, placed between the thighs, will catch the water which cannot disengage itself from the catheter, and keep the patient dry ; or if another curved pipe is introduced into the catheter it will answer the same purpose. Under such treatment the bladder will never be allowed to be dis- tended ; and when the patient wants to have the bladder in some degree emptied, he has only to strain with his abdominal muscles, by which means he will be able to throw out a great deal at each time. As the bladder begins to recover its actions, the patient will find that an inclination to make water will come on, and at those times he will also find that the water will come from him without straining with the abdominal muscles ; when this takes place readily, the catheter may be taken out, and it will be found that he will be able in future to make water of himself. If it is necessary to keep in the catheter a consider- able time, it will be the cause of a great deal of slime and mucus being formed in the urethra and bladder; but I believe this is of no conse- quence. I have known a catheter kept in this way for five months without any inconveniency whatever. In all cases where it is necessary to keep an extraneous hody for a considerable time in the bladder, whether in an artificial passage or the natural one, it will be proper a few days after its first introduction to withdraw it, and examine whether it is incrusting, or filling up in its cavity with the calculous matter of the urine. If, after remaining in the bladder for some days, it has contracted none, we need be under no apprehension of its doing it; but if, as frequently happens, it should have collected a considerable quantity, then it will be necessary to have it occasionally withdrawn and cleaned. The best method probably of doing this is to put it in vinegar, which will soon dissolve the stony matter.