OF THE LUES VENEREA. 419 on inspection a small ulcer was found, which was allowed to go on till the nature of it was ascertained, and then recourse was had to mercury. The mercury was thrown in by the same leg and thigh as before, to se- cure the gland more effectually, although that was not now probably necessary. As soon as the ulcer was skinned over the mercury was left off, it not being intended to destroy the poison, but to observe what parts it would next affect. About three months after, copper-coloured blotches broke out on the skin, and the former ulcer returned in the tonsil. Mercury was now applied the second time for those effects of the poison upon the constitution, but still only with a view to palliate. It was left off a second time, and the attention was given to mark where it would break out next; but it returned again in the same parts. It not appearing that any further knowledge was to be procured by only palliating the disease a fourth time in the tonsil, and a third time in the skin, mercury was now taken in a sufficient quantity, and for a proper time, to complete the cure. The time the experiments took up, from the first insertion to the complete cure, was about three years. The above case is only uncommon in the mode of contracting the disease, and the particular views with which some parts of the treat- ment were directed; but as it was meant to prove many things which, though not uncommon, are yet not attended to, attention was paid to all the circumstances. It proves many things, and opens a field for further conjectures. It proves, first, that matter from a gonorrhoea will produce chancres. It makes it probable that the glans does not admit the venereal irri- tation so quickly as the prepuce. The chancre on the prepuce inflamed and suppurated in somewhat more than three days, and that on the glans in about ten. This is probably the reason why the glans did not throw off its sloughs so soon. It renders it highly probable that to apply mercury to the legs and thighs is the best method of resolving a bubo; and therefore also the best method of applying mercury to assist in the cure, even when the bubo suppurates. It also shows that buboes may be resolved in this way, and yet the constitution not be safe; and therefore that more mercury should be thrown in, especially in cases of easy resolution, than what simply re- solves the bubo. It shows that parts may be contaminated, and may have the poison kept dormant in them while under a course of mercury for other sym- ptoms, but break out afterwards. 2 e 2