DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 483 §. 1. Of Diseases supposed to be Venereal produced by Trans- planted Teeth. Since the operation of transplanting teeth has been practised in Lon- don, some cases have occurred in which the venereal infection has been supposed to be communicated in this way, and they have been treated accordingly ; nor has the method of cure tended to weaken the suspicion: yet when all the circumstances attending them, both in the mode of catching the disease, and in the cure when they have been treated as venereal, are considered, there is something in them all which is not ex- actly similar to the usual appearance of the venereal disease when caught in the common way ; especially too when it is considered that some of the cases were not treated as venereal, and yet were cured, and there- fore the cures of the others, which appeared to be from mercury, are not clear proofs of their having been venereal*. I believe that I have seen most, if not all, the cases of this kind which have occurred, and have attended some of them. In all of them the time of local affection, after the insertion of the tooth, has been almost regularly a month, which is too long for the venereal to take effect at a medium ; and where they have produced constitutional symptoms, those again have either followed the local too close for the venereal, or too regular as to time. But it may be advanced, that a disease has been produced probably as bad in its consequences as the venereal. That a disease has been formed in this way is certain. The first case of this kind which came under my care was a lady who had one of the bicuspidati transplanted. The transplanted tooth fast- ened very well. About a month after she danced till five or six o’clock in the morning, caught cold, and had a fever in consequence, which lasted near six weeks. In this time ulceration in the gum and jaw took place, though it was then not known. And when she was beginning to recover it was found that not only the gum and socket of this tooth were diseased, but also those of the teeth next to it. The two teeth were taken out, and the sockets of both afterwards exfoliated; but the parts were very backward in healing. This backwardness gave rise to various opinions, the principal of which was, that it was venereal. In the mean time a rising appeared upon one of the legs, which was of the indolent node kind ; this was also sus- pected by some to be venereal, or rather was a corroborating circum- * It is to be remarked here that I do not, in the present case, lay any stress at all on my opinion of the lues venerea not having the power of contamination; and I believe we must allow, if the disease were venereal, it must have been contracted from a lues venerea in the person from whom the tooth was taken ; for chancres are not common in the mouth, and they would be seen on examination. I believe few discharges similar to gonorrhoea take place there. 2 I 2