328 OF CHANCRE. The venereal matter from such sores is very apt to run clown the perinseum to the anus, as in a gonorrhoea, and excoriate the parts, espe- cially about the anus where the skin is thin, and often produces chancres in those parts. Chancres have been observed in the vagina; which I suspect not to have been original ones, but to have arisen from the spreading of the ulcers on the inside of the labiaa. This form of the disease, like the gonorrhoea, both in women and in men, is entirely local, the constitution having no connexion with it but sympathetically, and I believe much more seldom in this than in the former. CHAPTER III. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE TREATMENT OF CHANCRES. The inflammation from the venereal poison, when it produces ulcera- tion, generally if not always continues till cured by art, which I observed was not the case with the gonorrhoea. It will perhaps not be an easy task to account for this material difference in the two kinds of disease ; but I am inclined to think that as the inflammation in the chancre spreads it is always attacking new ground, which is a succession of irritations, and is the cause that it does not cure itself. Chancres, as well as the gonorrhoea, are perhaps seldom or never wholly venereal, but are varied by certain peculiarities of the constitu- tion at the time. The treatment therefore of them, both local and con- stitutional, will admit of great variety; and it is upon the knowledge of this variety that the skill of the surgeon principally depends. On this account the concomitant symptoms are what require particular attention. Mercury is the cure of the venereal symptoms abstractedly * [Original chancres do occasionally occur within the vagina, being situated either on the membrane lining the vagina or on the os uteri itself. These chancres can only be detected by the use of a speculum. However, sores on these internal parts are ex- tremely rare, notwithstanding the degree in which they arc exposed to the contact of the venereal virus during coition.]