242 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. ยง.4. Of the Application of a Caustic to Strictures. When a bougie can readily pass, there is no necessity for using any other method to remove the stricture; but there are too many cases where a bougie cannot be made to pass, or so seldom that it cannot be depended upon for a cure. This may arise from several causes. First, the stricture may be so tight as not to allow the smallest bougie to pass. Secondly, the orifice in the stricture may not be in a line with the urethra, which will make it uncertain, if not impossible, to pass a bougie. Thirdly, there may be no passage at all, it having been obliterated by disease, and the urine discharged by fistulas in perinseo. The first very rarely occurs : for if the passage in the stricture be in a line with the general canal, a small bougie will commonly pass; and although it may not readily do so upon every trial, it will be sufficient to make way for another bougie, which is all that is wanted. The second case, where the canal is not in a line with the common passage, may arise from three causes. First, when the stricture is in the bend of the urethra, although the passage through it may be in the centre of the canal, yet as the bougie cannot have the exact curve, it will be very uncertain in its application. Secondly, from an irregula- rity in the formation of the stricture, which may throw the passage to one side, even in the straight part of the urethra; and thirdly, from ulceration having taken place, producing fistulse in perinaeo, which often make the canal irregular in its course. The third case where the application of the caustic may be neces- sary is where there is no passage at all, which happens from ulceration and abscesses in the perineum opening externally; and in the healing of them the passage is often closed up entirely. In all the above- mentioned cases I have succeeded with the caustic beyond expectation. If the obstructions are anywhere between the membranous part of the urethra and the glans, where the canal is nearly straight, or can easily be made so by the introduction of a straight instrument, it be- comes an easy matter to destroy them by caustic; but if beyond that, it becomes then more difficult. However, at the beginning of the bend of the urethra the obstruction may be so far removed as to admit of the passing of a bougie, or at least to procure a tolerably free passage for the urine. I have seen several cases where it was thought necessary to follow this practice ; and it succeeded so well that after a few touches with the caustic the bougie could be passed, which is all that is wanted. The success in these cases was such as would incline me to have re- course to this practice very early; indeed whenever I could not pass a small bougie through the stricture. I look upon the caustic as a much