488 DISEASES RESEMBLING TIIE LUES VENEREA. But still, if they are capable of having the disease, and communicating it to others, it becomes very extraordinary that those people should have hit upon the few teeth that probably were ever so contaminated. When we consider that the girls from whom the teeth were taken had not the least appearance of disease at the time, and had none when the disease broke out in the person who received the teeth, it becomes strange that it should break out in the receivers and not in the giver. It is also singular that an ambiguity should follow this disease in all its stages : in the mode of its being caught, the appearance, and the cure. Let us sum up all the arguments in favour of the disease not being venereal. First, two patients, whose cases were similar to the others in their origin, recovered without medicine. Secondly, they who seemed to be cured by mercury had not a treatment exactly similar to those who were indisputably poxed. Thirdly, I consider it as impossible for parts to have the power of contaminating which are not themselves diseased. Fourthly, the parts contaminating were never known to have been con- taminated themselves. But it must be nearly the same thing to those who want to have teeth transplanted, whether my reasoning is just or not; for a disease in consequence of the operation most certainly has taken place ; and in some cases this has been worse, or cured with more difficulty, than the lues venerea in common; and whatever the disease may be, I yet know of no mode of prevention, except the drawing of the tooth early, and that has been tried in one case only, and in that case was successful. From this account many may be deterred from having this operation performed. In that light no evil can arise, except the mortification which arises from a reflection that no relief is to be had in cases of bad teeth. But it is to be remembered that this is a publication of all the unsuc- cessful cases, which is the very reverse of what is generally practised in medical books ; and they are mentioned upon no other principle than that the disease, when it happens, may not be improperly managed. It may be asked, what is this disease ? There is more difficulty in an- swering what it is than what it is not. I should say that a sound tooth transplanted may occasion such an irritation as shall produce a species of disease which may be followed by the local complaints above mentioned. I cannot conclude without intimating that undescribed diseases, re- sembling the venereal, are very numerous ; and that what I have said is rather to be considered as hints for others to prosecute this inquiry further, than as a complete account of the subject. END OF THE SECOND VOLUME. Printed by Richard Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.