163 OF GONORRHCFA. irritations to produce their own destruction, like a mote in the eye, which, by increasing the secretion of tears, is itself washed away. But in inflammations arising from specific or morbid poisons this effect cannot be produced : for although the first irritating matter be washed away, yet the new matter formed has the same quality with the origi- nal ; and therefore, upon the same principle, it would produce a perpe- tual succession of irritations, and of course secretions, even if there were no other cause for the continuance than its own matter. But the vene- real inflammation is not kept up by the pus which is formed ; but, like many other specific diseases, by the specific quality of the inflammation itself. This inflammation, however, it would appear, can only last a limited time, the symptoms peculiar to it vanishing of themselves by the parts becoming less and less susceptible of irritation. This circum- stance is not peculiar to this particular form of the venereal disease ; it is, perhaps, common to almost every disease that can affect the human body. From hence it will appear that the consequent venereal matter has no power of continuing the original irritation; and indeed if this were not the case there would be no end to the disease. As the living principle in many diseases is not capable of continuing the same action, it also loses this power in the present, when the dis- ease is in the form of a gonorrhoea; and the effect is at last stopped, the irritation ceasing gradually. This cessation will vary according to circumstances : for if the irritated parts are in a state very susceptible of such irritations, in all probability their actions will be more violent and continue longer ; but in all cases the difference must arise from the difference in the constitution, and not from any difference in the poison itself. The circumstance of the disease ceasing spontaneously only happens when it attacks a secreting surface, and when a secretion of pus is pro- duced ; for when it attacks a non-secreting surface, and produces its effects there, that is, an ulcer, the parts so affected are capable of con- tinuing the disease, or this mode of action, for ever, as will be taken notice of when we shall hereafter consider chancre. But this difference between spontaneous and non-spontaneous cure seems to depend more on the difference in the two modes of action than on the difference in the two surfaces; for when the disease produces an ulcer on a secre- ting surface, which it often does from the constitution, as on the ton- sils, it has no disposition to cure of itself; nor in the urethra, if ulcers are formed there, would they heal more readily than when formed in any other part. The common practice proves these facts: we every day see gonor- rhoeas cured by the most ignorant; but in chancre, or the lues venerea, m 2