406 OF THE LUES VENEREA. weeks ; in many cases, however, it is much later, and in others much sooner. In some cases it appears to produce its local effects within a fortnight after the possibility of the absorption of the matter. In one case a gentleman had a chancre, and a swelling in the groin came on, and within the before-mentioned time he had venereal eruptions all over the body. He could not impute this to any former complaint, yet there is a possibility of its having arisen from the first mode of catching the disease, by simple contact, at the time he got the local or chancre, which might extend the time to a week or more, although this is not probable. In another case, three weeks after the healing of a chancre, eruptions broke out all over the body, and this happened only a fortnight after leaving off the course of mercury that cured the chancre. The effects on other parts of the body, that are less susceptible of this irritation, or are slower in their action, are of course much later in appearing; and in those cases where both orders of parts are contaminated it is in gene- ral not till after the first has made its appearance for a considerable time, and even perhaps after it has been cured; for while the parts first in order of action were contaminated and under cure, the second in order are only in a state of contamination, and go on with the disease after- wards, although it may never again appear in the first. From this circumstance of the parts second in order coming later into action, we can plainly see the reason why it shall appear in them, although the first in order may have been cured ; for if the external parts, or first in order, have been cured, and the internal, or second, such as the tendons, bones, periosteum, &c., have not been cured, then it becomes confined solely to these parts. The order of parts may some- times be inverted ; for I have seen cases where the periosteum, or bone, was affected prior to any other part. Whether in the same case it might in the end have affected the skin or throat I will not pretend to say, as it was not allowed to go on; but it is possible that the second order of parts may be affected without the first having ever been contaminated. Its effects on the deeper-seated parts are not like those produced in the external, and the difference is so remarkable as to give the appear- ance of another disease ; and a person accustomed to see it in the first parts only would be entirely at a loss about the second. The parts which come first into action go on with it, probably on the same principle, much quicker than the others ; and this arises from the nature of the parts, as has already been observed. Each succeeding part that becomes affected is slower and slower in its progress, and more fixed in its symptoms when produced ; this arises also from the natural disposition of such parts, all their actions being slow, which indolent action may be assisted by the absence of the great