451 OF THE LUES VENEREA. cuated from the constitution ; a case that sometimes happens, and which will be taken notice of in its proper placea. The taste in the mouth, from the use of mercury, has been known to go off, and not be perceived for a fortnight, and the same taste has recurred : this I am informed has happened twice to one gentleman, from the first quantity of mercury taken. To account for this is not easy; in whatever way it happens, it is a curious fact. When the mercury has fallen upon the mouth and throat, washing those parts with opium has often good effects ; for opium takes off irri- tability, and of course the soreness, which is one means of lessening the secretion. A drachm of tinctura tliebaica to an ounce of water makes a good wash or gargle*. When the mercury falls upon the skin, it is neither so disagreeable nor so dangerous as when it falls upon the mouth; however, it may often happen that it will be proper to check such a discharge, both upon account of its being troublesome, and of its lessening the effects of the medicine in the constitution, by carrying it off. The bark is, perhaps, one of the best correctors of this increased secretion. When the medicine attacks the kidneys and increases the secretion of those glands, it is not so troublesome as when it produces sweating, though it is possible that it may carry off the mercury too soon ; but as we have but few medicines that can lessen that secretion, in most cases it must be allowed to go on. The bark may in such cases be given with advantage. When the mercury falls upon the bowels, it proves often more dan- gerous and troublesome than in any of the former cases, especially the two last; but it is, perhaps, most in our power to prevent or palliate. Opium should be given in such quantities as to overcome the complaint, and I believe will seldom fail of removing all the symptoms5. * My using opium in this way was from analogy. Finding that opium quieted the bowels when a purging came on in consequence of mercury, I tried it by way of gargle to the mouth, and found good effects from it, but not equal to those which it produced in the bowels. a [Nitric acid has far more power than any other medicine in checking and curing soreness of the gums and ptyalism.] b [Opium will often prevent the occurrence of disorder of the bowels from mercury; but when dysenterical symptoms are actually present, it will seldom remove them unless it be preceded by a purgative.] 2 r, 2