OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 11 * PI. I. f. 3. g. tuberance. This origin is sometimes wanting, and in that case the temporal muscle arises from that protuberance; and very often this origin is common to both. These two origins of this muscle are some- times so much separated as to make it a biceps. From these origins the muscle passes outwards and a little back- wards, converging; that is, the superior fibres passing outwards and backwards, and a little downwards; while the inferior or larger por- tion of it passes a little upward. It is inserted, tendinous and fleshy, into a depression on the anterior part of the condyle and neck of the lower jaw, upon the inside of that ridge which is continued from the coronoid process; a little portion is likewise inserted into the anterior part of the moveable cartilage of the joint. When this muscle acts singly, it is a rotator; for it brings the con- dyle of the jaw forwards, and likewise the moveable cartilage, which throws the chin to the opposite side ; but if it acts in conjunction with its fellow of the opposite side, instead of being turned to one side, the whole jaw is brought forwards, and thus these counteract the tem- poral, &c. These two muscles generally act alternately; and when they do so, one acts at the time of depression, the other at the time of elevation; so that these muscles act both when the lower jaw is raised and when it is depressed; although they do not assist in this act. Of the Superior Digastric Muscle. The digastricus is situated immediately under and a little upon the inside of the lower jaw, and exterior to the fauces, extending from the mastoid process to the chin, nearly along the angle made by the neck and chin, or face*. The name of this muscle expresses its general shape, as it has two fleshy bellies, and of course a middle tendon. Yet some of its anterior bell)r does not arise from the tendon of the posterior, but from the fascia which binds it to the os hyoides. These two fleshy bellies do not run in the same line, but form an angle, just where the tendon runs into the anterior belly; so that this tendon seems rather to belong to the posterior, which is the thickest and longest. This muscle arises from the sulcus made by the inside of the mastoid process, and a ridge upon the temporal bone, where it is united with the os occipitis. The extent of this origin is about an inch; it is fleshy