476 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. About a twelvemonth after, the sores broke out again, and, although mercurial dressings and internal medicines were given, remained for a twelvemonth, when they began again to heal upa. 3 [The author is evidently of opinion that these and similar cases are not venereal, and he elsewhere denies it to be possible that an infant can be contaminated by its pa- rent before its birth. Whether he is right in this opinion must be judged by the fol- lowing statement of the facts, which are sufficiently frequent and peculiar to be given with confidence in their truth. When a mother suffers during the period of pregnancy from a constitutional venereal affection, she seems to be particularly disposed to miscarry. The abortion seems to be caused by the death of the infant, which is very generally born dead, and has usually ceased to show signs of vitality for some days before its ejection. If, however, miscarriage does not take place, it is most usual that the infant at birth shows no signs of disease. But at a variable period, generally from three to five weeks after birth, it becomes slightly indisposed. Then eruptions appear about the thighs and the groins, between the nates, or on the pudenda. They wear the aspect of dis- coloured patches, generally affecting a circular form, with a shining surface, and some slight desquamation, but without the least tubercular thickening. As the disease pro- ceeds these patches enlarge, and eventually occupy almost the whole body ; and in the folds they sometimes slightly excoriate, and even, near the anus, at the umbilicus, or on the female pudenda, form small condylomatous excrescences. Then ulcers in many cases take place in the interior of the mouth, and in the throat; the nostrils are par- tially obstructed by an increase of their secretion, and the voice becomes weak and hoarse. With all this there is much general indisposition. From the first appearance of the symptoms the child does not thrive, and as they continue it becomes very weak and emaciated. If the case be neglected it often terminates fatally, but under the use of mercury all the symptoms are readily subdued, and perfect health may be restored. Those who come into close contact with a child thus diseased may be contaminated in consequence. If such a child has sores in the interior of the mouth, and in this state sucks the breast of a healthy woman, it is very common that the nipple should become ulcerated; and the ulcer will not resemble the fissures which are so common on the nipples of women who give suck, and which usually occasion no loss of substance, but will be a corroding ulcer, and will destroy the whole or the greater part of the nipple before it is healed. It also produces in general an enlarged gland in the axilla, which, however, rarely passes into suppuration. At an interval of some weeks sore throat, eruptions, or nodes arise, which are in no respect distinguishable from the common forms of lues venerea. If a woman, who has been thus infected by a child which she has suckled, suckles also another child which is healthy, no infection will be communicated, provided the sound child is kept carefully to the opposite breast, and is never allowed to take into its mouth the nipple to which the diseased child is applied. But if this precaution is not taken, and the children are applied indiscriminately to either breast, the sound child will contract sores in the interior of the lips, and these will be followed by scaly eruptions on the skin, exactly resembling those which are seen in an infant which has received the infection from its mother. It would be easy to substantiate what lias been stated by the recital of cases. The results are tolerably uniform ; at least the deviations from the ordinary course are not greater than those which occur when the venereal disease is communicated in the usual way by sexual connection. It is difficult, in the face of these facts, to deny that such cases arc the cflecls oi the