OF THE DISEASES 104 Secondly, there are instances of their becoming diseased, in the same manner as an original living tooth; at least the following case favours strongly this opinion. In October 1772, a gentleman of the city of London had a tooth transplanted, which was perfectly sound, and fixed in its new socket extremely well; about a year and a half after two spots were observed on the fore part of the body of the tooth, which threatened a decay; they were exactly similar to specks, or the first appearance of decay, which come upon natural living teeth. Pain is also sometimes felt in the transplanted tooth. But what puts it beyond a doubt is, that a living tooth, when trans- planted into some living part of an animal, will retain its life; and the vessels of the animal shall communicate with the tooth, as is shown by the following experiments. I took a sound tooth from a person’s head; then made a pretty deep wound with a lancet into the thick part of a cock’s comb, and pressed the fang of the tooth into this wound, and fastened it with threads passed through other parts of the comb. The cock was killed some months after, and I injected the head with a very minute injection ; the comb was then taken off and put into a weak acid, and the tooth being softened by this means, I slit the comb and tooth into two halves, in the long direction of the tooth. I found the vessels of the tooth well injected, and also observed that the external surface of the tooth ad- hered everywhere to the comb by vessels, similar to the union of a tooth with the gum and sockets*.3 * I may here just remark, that this experiment is not generally attended with suc- cess. I succeeded but once out of a great number of trials. a [It is unnecessary in the present day to enter into any discussion on the merits of on operation now, I believe, wholly discontinued. From the experiments which Hun- ter made on the transplanting of teeth from the jaw to other situations, and the suc- cessful result of several of them, the operation in question became a favourite one with him ; and it appears to have been very frequently performed either by himself or under his directions. The frequent failures which occurred, even in the operation itself, and still more the severe results which very often succeeded its performance at different periods, have very properly induced almost all subsequent practitioners to abandon its employment. Nothing but the sanguine expectations created in an ardent mind, by the interesting results which followed his first experiments, could account for a man of so sound a judgment having followed up a practice so obviously objectionable. The experiment with which this section is closed has, however, an interest attached to it far more important than its having given rise to the temporary adoption of an ob- jectionable operation. In the result of this experiment may be found an interesting collateral argument in favour of the organized structure of the teeth, and their actual living connexion with the body. The vessels of the tooth, we are told, were well in- jected, and the external surface adhered everywhere to the comb by vessels. To what