379 OF DUBO. eaten groove all round. This, like the erysipelatous inflammation, as also some others, appears to have only the power of contaminating the parts that have not yet come into action; and those that have already taken it seem to lose the diseased disposition, and heal readily. In some they spread to an amazing extent, as the following case shows, the circumstances of which are very remarkable. A young gentleman, aged eighteen years, in consequence of a vene- real infection, had two buboes, which were both opened. They were treated in the usual manner, and at first put on a favourable appearance; but when they were nearly healed they began to ulcerate at their edges, and spread in all directions, rising above the pubes almost to the navel, and descending upon each thigh. His nights became restless, and his general health was affected. A great variety of medicines were tried, particularly mercury in different forms, with little or no effect. Ex- tract of hemlock did more good than anything else, and was taken in unusual quantities. An ounce was swallowed in the course of the day for some time, which was afterwards increased to an ounce and a half, two ounces, and even two ounces and a half. It produced indistinct vision and blindness, loss of the voice, falling of the lower jaw, a tem- porary palsy of the extremities, and once or twice a loss of sensation; and notwithstanding he was almost every night in a state, as it were, of complete intoxication from the hemlock, his general health did not suffer, but, on the contrary, kept pace in his improvement with the ul- cers. They could not, however, be healed by the hemlock ; and among many other things, iEthiops mineral and Plummer’s pill were liberally given, seemingly with advantage. Recourse was had to the hemlock from time to time. A great many different kinds of dressings were made trial of, none of which were found to exceed dry lint. The ul- cers were nearly all healed, after having tormented him upwards of three years, when, committing some irregularities in diet, and the sores get- ting worse, he returned to the extract of hemlock, which he had for some time laid aside, and of himself swallowed in the course of the morning ten drams. This quantity was only the half of what he had formerly taken in twenty-four hours, but his constitution had been at that time gradually habituated to the medicine. The ten drams pro- duced great restlessness and anxiety; he dropt insensible from his chair, fell into convulsions, and expired in two hours. To return to the cure of buboes : where they only become stationary, and appear to have but little disposition to spread (which is most com- mon), and where perhaps a sinus or two may be found running into them from some other gland, I have often seen them give way to hem- lock sooner than to anything I am acquainted with, especially if joined