325 OF CHANCRE. defending part, as in an inflammation of the leg or thigh, where the foot commonly swells or becomes cedematous in consequence of the descent of the serum extravasated above. A natural contraction of the aperture of the prepuce is very common, and so strong in some that those under such construction of parts have a natural and constant phimosis. Such a state of parts is often attended with chancres, producing very great inconveniences in the time of the cure ; and in those cases of considerable diffused inflammation, a dis- eased phimosis, similar to the other, unavoidably follows ; and, whether diseased or natural, it may produce the paraphimosis simply by the pre- puce being brought back upon the penis ; for this tight part acting as a ligature round the body of the penis, behind the glans, retards the cir- culation beyond the ligature, producing an cedematous inflammation on the inverted part of the prepuce. When the paraphimosis takes place in consequence of a natural tightness only, although attended with chancres, yet it has nothing to do with the constitution, this being only accidental; however, in either case a paraphimosis is to be considered as in some degree a local violence. This natural phimosis is so considerable in some children as not to allow the urine to pass with ease; but in general becomes larger and larger as boys grow up, by frequent endeavours to bring it over the glans, by which the bad consequences that would otherwise ensue in it when affected with disease are often prevented. This part of the prepuce, although in most men it is loose enough to produce no inconvenience in a natural state, yet it sometimes contracts without any visible cause whatever, and becomes so narrow as to hinder the water from getting out, even after it has got free from the urethra, so that the whole cavity cf the prepuce shall be filled with the urine, and give great pain. The cases that I have seen of this kind have been principally in old men. When the prepuce is in its natural position it then covers entirely the glans, and is commonly a little loose before it; but when it begins to swell and thicken, more and more of the skin of the penis is drawn for- wards over the glans, and the glans at the same time is pushed back- wards by the swelling against its end. I have seen the prepuce pro- jecting from such a cause more than three inches beyond the glans, and its aperture much diminished. The prepuce often becomes in some degree inverted by the inner skin yielding more than the outer, having a kind of neck where the outer skin naturally terminates. From the tightness and distension of the parts in a state of tumefaction it becomes impossible to bring it back over the penis, so as to invert it and expose the sores on the inside.