QF CHANCRE. 349 Although this is most common in the seat of the former chancres, yet it is not always confined to them, for sores often break out on other parts of the prepuce ; but still they appear to be a consequence of a ve- nereal complaint having been there, as they seldom attack those who never had gonorrhoea or chancres. They often have so much the ap- pearance of chancres, that I am persuaded many are treated as venereal that are really not such : they differ from a chancre in general by not osteum and bones. Similar complaints will follow the ordinary chancre ; but when they follow a phagedenic sore they are very difficult to be cured; and it is not uncommon that the constitution of the patient should at length give way under them, and that the case should terminate fatally. If the description of these sores is compared with that of a common chancre, which has been given in a former chapter, the distinction is sufficiently evident. The com- mon chancre is preceded and followed by induration of a peculiar character, which holds its course in some measure independently of the ulceration itself. No such in- duration is found in the phagedenic sore: the thickening which does occur does not differ from that which is met with in other sores, and is merely an attendant on the unhealthy state of the ulcer. The common chancre spreads equally in all directions. The phagedenic sore spreads irregularly, and frequently heals at one edge while it is spreading at another. The common chancre tends to multiply and to produce similar ulcers on the surfaces which are in contact with it. The phagedenic sore remains single, and the contiguous surfaces are unaffected. There is also a difference, though less clearly defined, in the secondary symptoms which follow these two species of sore, and a different treatment must be adopted in the cure. If the phagedenic sore is treated with a full course of mercury, it is most frequently found that the improvement in the first instance is more immediate and more decided than in the case of a common chancre. In a very few days the inflammation subsides, the surface cleans, and the sore begins to heal. But this amendment is usually only temporary: it generally happens that in a few days more, if the mercury is continued, and especially if the effect on the system is at all excessive, the aspect changes, the colour of the surrounding parts becomes dark and purple, sudden sloughing comes on, and the whole surface of the sore, and often much of the prepuce and of the penis, is involved in it. On the other hand, if mercury is entirely avoided, and such treatment only is adopted as would be employed in a common sore, the ulcer obstinately retains its unhealthy character, and makes constant, though less rapid, progress by foul ulce- ration. Mercury is of great service in the treatment of the phagedenic sore, but if its depres- sing defects are allowed to come on, the consequence is, almost always, sloughing. It must therefore be so employed as to avoid these effects: it must be administered in those doses, and in those forms which least depress the circulation ; and it must be com- bined with such medicines as are calculated at the same time to support the system. The oxymuriate of mercury, given in the dose of an eighth of a grain twice in the day, and in unison with decoction of sarsaparilla, is the safest and most efficient preparation. But even in this form the effect must be watched ; and if the integuments in the neigh- bourhood of the sore should become pale or livid, or if much general languor is induced, the remedy must be intermitted, and resumed only after these symptoms of impending sloughing have disappeared. It must not be omitted, that the internal use of the hydriodate of potass has often great effect on this form of disease.]