100 OF THE DISEASES the same size in the young as the old*. To remedy this inconvenience as much as possible, the scion tooth should be that of a female, for fe- male teeth are in general smaller than those of men; but the inconve- nience still remains whenever a female is the subject of this operation. Some women have such small teeth that it is almost impossible to fit them. When the fang of the scion tooth is larger than that which it is intended to supply, it must be made smaller, and only in that part where it exceeds. But the necessity of this should be avoided if pos- sible, for a tooth that is filed has lost all those inequalities which allow it to be held much faster. If, however, some part must be removed, it should be done so as to imitate the old tooth as much as possible. The best remedy is to have several people ready whose teeth in appearance are fit, for if the first will not answer, the second may. I am persuaded this operation has failed, from a tooth being forced in too tight, for let us reflect what must be the consequence of such practice. A part of the soft covering of the tooth, or lining of the socket, is squeezed between two hard bones, so that all circulation of juices is prevented; a morti- fication in that part takes place ; and in consequence of that a gum-boil, and the loss of all union between tooth and socket, so that the tooth drops out. It will be hardly necessary to mention that the sooner the scion tooth is put into its place the better, as delay will perpetually lessen the power upon which the union of the two parts depends t- Of replacing a sound Tooth when drawn by mistake. It sometimes happens that a tooth is drawn on an idea that it is dis- eased, because it gives pain, but appears after the extraction to be per- fectly sound. In such a case I would recommend the replacing it, that there may be no loss by the operation; and the seat of the pain will probably be removed to the next tooth. A tooth beat out by violence should be replaced in the same manner. This ought to be done as soon as possible ; however, I would even recommend the experiment twenty- four hours after the accident, or as long as the socket will receive the tooth, which may be for some days. If the tooth be replaced at any time before its life is destroyed, it will reunite with the cavity of the socket, and be as fast as ever. No tooth is excepted from this practice, for although in the grinders * Natural History, p. 49, on the Growth of Teeth. •| See Natural History of Teeth, pp. 55, 56, for an explanation of the principle upon which the success of this operation depends.