214 OF GONORRHOEA. It is in this stage of the complaint that resolvents may be of service, such as mercurial friction joined with camphor. Likewise we may use- fully apply fumigations with aromatic herbs, in order to stimulate the absorbents to take up the superfluous matter. Electricity has been in some cases of singular service. §•7- Of the decline and termination of the symptoms of Gonorrhoea. The decline of the disease is generally known by an abatement of some or all of the above-mentioned symptoms. The pain in the part becomes less, or terminates in an itching similar to what is felt in the beginning of many gonorrhoeas, and at last entirely goes off. The sense of weariness about the loins, hips, testicles and scrotum is no longer felt; and the transparent cherry-like appearance of the glans penis gra- dually disappears. These are the most certain signs of an abatement of the disease. The running becomes less ; or, if it does not diminish, becomes first whiter, then of a paler colour, and gradually acquires a more slimy and ropy consistence, which has always been considered as the most certain sign of an approaching cure. When the running becomes more slimy, it is then changed from matter to the natural fluid which lubricates the passage, and also to that fluid which appears to be preparatory to co- ition. But it is often very inconstant in its appearances, arising fre- quently from different modes of living, exercise, or other causes. It often happens that all the symptoms shall totally disappear, and the patients shall think themselves cured, and yet the same symptoms shall come upon them anew, commonly indeed milder than at first, though in some cases as violent, or even more violent; and this takes place sometimes at a considerable distance of time. I have known the symptoms return a month after every appearance of the disease has been removed. However, in such cases, they seldom last long. How far this second attack is to be looked upon as truly venereal has not as yet been ascertained. Nothing can prove it absolutely to be venereal but the circumstance of having given it to a sound person. What may be is usually from deposition in the cellular membrane which connects its convolutions, or mere thickening of the membranes which invest it. And though it is not uncommon that some of the vasa efferentia should be totally obstructed, and converted into solid cords: yet unless the whole of these vessels should be thus changed, such an occurrence is of little consequence; as those which still remain pervious will be sufficient to carry the semen as before into the vas deferens.]