OF THE LUES VENEREA. 422 ยง 4. Of the Effects of the Poison on the Constitution. The poisonous matter, simply as extraneous matter, produces no change whatever upon the constitution, and whatever effects it has de- pend wholly upon its specific quality as a poison. The general effects of this poison on the constitution are similar to other irritations, either local or constitutional. It produces fever, which is of the slow kind; and when it continues a considerable time it produces what is called a hectic disposition, which is no more than an habitual slow fever arising from a cause which the constitution cannot overcome. While this ex- ists it is impossible that anything salutary can go on in such a consti- tution. The patient loses his appetite, or even if his appetite is good, loses his flesh, becomes restless, loses his sleep, and looks sallow*. In the first stage of this disease, before it begins to show itself ex- ternally, the patient has generally rigors, hot fits, headaches, and all the symptoms of an approaching fever. These symptoms continuing for some days, and often for weeks, show that there is some irritating cause which works slowly upon the constitution. It is then supposed to be whatever the invention or in- genuity of the practitioner shall call it; but the venereal eruptions * This kind of look, although arising entirely from a harassed constitution, is always supposed to be peculiar to a venereal one. This idea, however, does not arise from the look only, but from the leading symptoms. the centre of the denuded part is found a small hole, which perforates the cortical plate, and communicates with the interior of the bone. This affection is very common in the skull, and may be occasionally seen in the tibia, the jaw, and the ulna. It constitutes in its aggravated forms the worm-eaten caries, which is sometimes seen to pervade ex- tensively the bones of the cranium. 3. There is, less frequently, a third form of disease, which seems to be originally simple inflammation of the bone, and which is most commonly seen in the skull. The thickness of the bone is greatly increased, and the structure becomes dense and ponder- ous. The periosteum is for the most part unaltered ; but during the course of the dis- ease it is often attacked by inflammation at particular points, and then it rises into small nodes. These nodes generally subside again in a week or two, when similar enlarge- ments occur elsewhere, and usually in like manner disappear in their turn. Some- times, however, instead of subsiding, they suppurate, and the surface of the bone be- comes carious. Yet no considerable portion dies and separates: the ulcer does not spread, but after a certain lapse of time heals again, leaving the surface of the bone uneven, and the cicatrix closely adhering to it. The enlargement of the bone subsides on the cure of the disease, except in cases where the disease has been of very long con- tinuance.]