472 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. He now discontinued tlie mercury, and remained free from all sym- ptoms of the disorder, except some nodes on the tibia, and rheumatic pains on exposure to cold, until about twelve months agoa, when he be- gan to have an uneasiness in swallowing, a rawness in the throat, and a discharge of viscid mucus from that and the posterior nostrils, all of which still continue. The following observations may be made on the above case : There can be little doubt that the disease was the yaws. The yaws are a disease that resembles the venereal in several of its symptoms, as well as in the manner in which it is most commonly communicated. It differs, however, in some essential particulars. The yaws have a regu- lar progress, after going through which they leave the constitution in a healthy state, at least free from that disease, it being sufficient for the cure that the patient be put in a state favourable to general health. Thus, a negro labouring under the disease must do little or no work, be kept clean, and have a better diet than usual. Under these circum- stances, he commonly gets well in from four to nine months, although the unfavourable cases will continue much longer. Various medicines are given for the cure, but it is not clear that any of them do good. Mercury has considerable power over the disease, without being a spe- cific for it. If given early it will either check the progress of the disease, or perhaps even heal up all the sores on the skin ; but nothing is gained by this, for the disease soon breaks out anew. Some practitioners of medicine in the West Indies are of opinion that interrupting the course of the disease by mercury is productive of no other evils than those of loss of time and an imperfect cure ; others affirm that it is often the cause of what they call the boneache. Towards the end of the disease it is generally allowed that mercury may be given safely, and even with ad- vantage. It is probable the long continuance of the disease, being above fourteen months, and also the pains in the bones in the present case, were owing to the very early and free use of mercury. It may be al- lowable to add, that the yaws do not differ more from the venereal dis- ease in curing themselves than in this circumstance, that, like the small- pox, they affect none a second timeb. A gentleman applied to me for the cure of chancres, seated on the attachment of the prepuce to the penis, and also on the frsenum. Mer- a [The first edition of the work was published in 178G, consequently it would appear that a considerable interval elapsed between the healing of the ulcerations and the oc- currence of the sore throat.] b [The earliest and best description of the yaws is given in the fifth volume of the Edinburgh Medical Essays, and has been attributed to a gentleman of the name of Home. The case related by Dr. Adams, in his work on morbid poisons, as occurring at Madeira seems not to have been a case of yaws at all.]