385 OF THE LUF.S VENEREA. be infected by her. This I should doubt very much, both from what may be observed of the secretions, and from finding that even the mat- ter from such constitutional inflammation is not capable of communi- cating the disease. However, one can conceive the bare possibility of a child being aflfected in the womb of a pocky mother, not indeed from the disease of the mother, but from a part of the same matter which contaminated the mother, and was absorbed by her ; and whether irri- tating her solids to action or not, may possibly be conveyed to the child, pure as absorbed ; and if so it may affect the child exactly in the same way it did or might have done the mother. This idea lias been carried still further ; for it has been supposed that such a contaminated child could contaminate the breasts of a clean woman by sucking her; the possibility of which will be considered presently. We may observe that even the blood of a pocky person has no power of contaminating, and is not capable of giving the disease to another even by inoculation ; for if it were capable of irritating a sound sore to a venereal inflamma- tion, no person that has this matter circulating, or has the lues venerea, could escape having a venereal sore whenever he is bled or receives a scratch with a pin, the part so wounded turning into a chancre. For if venereal matter be on the point of the lancet, or on the point of the pin, the punctures must become chancres. ยง 2. Of the Matter from Sores in the Lues Venerea compared ivith that from Chancres and Buboes. When the matter has affected the constitution, it from thence pro- duces many local effects on different parts of the body, which are in general a kind of inflammation, or at least an increased action occa- sioning a suppuration of its own kind. It is supposed that the matter produced in consequence of these inflammations, similar to the matter from a gonorrhoea or chancre, is also venereal and poisonous. This I believe till now has never been denied : and, upon the first view of the subject, one would be inclined to suppose that it really should be vene- real ; for, first, the venereal matter is the cause : and again the same treatment cures both diseases; thus mercury cures both a chancre and a lues venerea; however, this is no decisive proof, as mercury cures many diseases besides the venereal. On the other hand, there are many strong reasons for believing that the matter is not venereal. There is one curious fact which shows it is either not venereal, or if it be, that it is not capable of acting in some respects on the same body or same state of constitution as that matter does which is produced from a VOL. ii. 2 c