OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 13 the posterior head of the digastricus will be felt to swell very consi- derably, so as to point out the direction of the muscle. In this there can be no deception, for there is no other muscle in this part that has the same direction; and those who are of opinion that the digastricus does not depress the lower jaw will more readily allow this when they are told that we find the same head of the muscle act in deglutition; but not with a force equal to that which it exerts in depressing the lower jaw. Further, if the sterno-hyoidei, sterno-thyroidei, and costo-hyoidei, acting at the same time with the mylo-hyoidei and genio-hyoidei, as- sisted in depressing the jaw, the os hyoides and thyroid cartilage would probably be depressed as the bellies of the sterno-hyoidei and of the other lower muscles are by much the longest; but, on the contrary, we find that the os hyoides, with the thyroid cartilage, is a little raised in the depression of the jaw, which we may suppose to be done by the anterior belly of the digastricus ; and, secondly, if these muscles were to act to bring about this motion of the jaw, these parts would be brought forwards, nearer to the straight line between the chin and sternum, which is not the case in this action; whereas we find it to be the case in deglutition, in which these evidently act. By applying our fingers upon the genio-hyoideus and mylo-hyoideus, near the os hyoides, between the two anterior bellies of the digastricus, (not near the chin, where the action of these two bellies may occasion a mistake,) we find these muscles quite flaccid, which is not the case in deglutition nor in speak- ing, in which they certainly do act; nor do we find the muscles under the os hyoides at all affected, as they are in the motion of the larynx. It has been observed that when we open the mouth, while we keep the lower jaw fixed, the fore part of the head or face is necessarily raised. Authors have been at a good deal of pains to explain this. Some of them considered the condyles of the jaw as the centre of motion. But if this were the case, that part of the head where it articulates with the spine, and consequently the whole body, must be depressed in pro- portion as the upper jaw is raised, which is not true in fact. Others have considered the condyles of the occiput as the centre of motion; and they have conceived the extensor muscles of the head to be the moving powers. The muscles which move the head in this case are pointed out by two circumstances which attend all muscular mo- tion : in the first place, all actions of our body have muscles imme- diately adapted to them; and, secondly, when the mind wills any par- ticular action, its power is applied by instinct to those muscles only which are naturally adapted to that motion ; and further, the mind being accustomed to see the part move which is naturally the most moveable, attends to its motion in the volition, although it be in that instance