OF GONORRHOEA. 166 patient of mine : but I gave her medicines, which she very much neg- lected to take. Her lover continued his connexion, as the first had done, for several months after he had got well, without any further in- fection from her. But, unfortunately, her first lover returned about a twelvemonth after; and thinking himself secure, as she lived in peace with the present, renewed his acquaintance with her, and but once; the consequence, however, was a gonorrhoea. Had the woman the gonorrhoea all this time ? And what was the reason why those gentlemen did not catch the disease, except after that the acquaintance had been interrupted for some time ? Was it the effect of habit, by which the parts lost their susceptibility of that irritation ? The case of a young woman from the Magdalen Hospital is a striking proof of this, as far as circumstances can prove a fact. She was received into that house, and continued the usual time, which is two years. The moment she came out she was picked up by one who was waiting for her with a post-chaise to carry her off immediately. She gave him a gonorrhoea. This opinion of parts being so habituated to this irritation as hardly to be affected by it is strengthened by observing that in the gonorrhoea the violent symptoms shall often cease, and the disease shall still con- tinue, spinning itself out to an amazing length, with no other symptoms than a discharge; yet that discharge shall be venereal. This I have frequently seen; and the following is an abstract of a singular case of this kind. A gentleman had connexion with a woman of the town, and received a venereal gonorrhoea in the beginning of April 1780. He at first could hardly believe it to be venereal, as he had kept the woman in the country, where she had scarcely ever been out of his sight; but the violent pain in making water, great running, chordee, and swelled tes- ticle convinced him that it was venereal. When the cure was going on tolerably well, and he had got the better of one swelled testicle, the other began to swell; however, all the symptoms gradually disappeared, except the chordee, hardness of the epididymis, and a small gleet which was slimy. On the 12th of June he went into the country: while he was in the country the chordee went off, and the hardness of the epidi- dymis entirely disappeared; but still a slimy gleet remained, although but trifling. September the first, he married a young lady, and endeavouring to enter the vagina, he found great difficulty, which brought on a return of the chordee, and an increased discharge. On the 10th, she began to complain of heat and pain, and of a difficulty and frequency in making water; and when she made water there was forced out some matter;