OF GONORRHOEA. 177 bit of the plaster of the necessary-house sticking to it. He paid no further attention to it at that time than merely to remove what stuck to his penis ; but five or six days after, he observed the symptoms of a clap, which proved a pretty severe one. The only way of accounting for this is, that some person who had a clap had been there before him, and had left some venereal matter upon this place, and that the penis had remained in contact with it a sufficient time for the matter to dry. When the disease attacks the urethra it seldom extends further than an inch and a half, or two inches at most, within the orifice, which di- stance appears to be truly specific, and what I have called the specific extent of the inflammation*. As the cause of a gonorrhoea is commonly an inflammation, it is ac- companied with pain and the formation of matter. In such a state neither the sensations of the patient nor the actions of the parts them- selves are confined to the real seat of the disease. In consequence of the neighbouring parts sympathising, a variety of symptoms are pro- duced, many of which do not exceed what might arise from an irritable state. An uneasiness partaking of soreness and pain, and a kind of weariness, are everywhere felt about the pelvis; the scrotum, testicles, perinseum, and hips become disagreeably sensible to the patient, and the testicles often require being suspended; and so irritable are they indeed in such cases, that the least accident or even exercise, which would have no such effect at another time, will make them swell. The glands of the groin are often affected sympathetically, and even swell a little, but do not come to suppuration. When they inflame from the absorption of matter, they in general suppurate. I have seen cases where the irritation has extended so far as to affect with real pain the thighs, the buttocks, and the abdominal muscles, so that the patient has been obliged to lie quiet in a horizontal position. The pain has at times been very acute, and the parts have been very sore to the touch; they have even swelled, but the swelling has not been of the inflammatory kind; for notwithstanding a visible fulness, the parts have been rather soft. I knew one gentleman who never had a gonorrhoea but that he was im- mediately seized universally with rheumatic pains : this had happened to him several times. The blood at such times is generally free from the inflammatory appearance, and therefore we may suppose that the constitution is but little affected. * It is to be here remarked, that specific diseases, among which I shall reckon such as arise from morbid poisons, have their specific distance or extent as one of their pro- perties; but this can only take place where the constitution is not susceptible of erysi- pelas, or any other uncommon mode of action; for where there is an erysipelatous disposition no bounds are set to the inflammation. VOL. II. N