88 OF THE DISEASES * Natural History, p. 45. the calcareous earth; these should only be made use of when it is in large quantities, and with great caution, as the teeth may be some- what loose ; or a part of the tooth may be broken off with the incrusta- tion. The chemical means are solvents: these are either alkalies or acids; the alkaline salt will answer very well early in the disease, for the crust in the first stage consists chiefly of mucus, which the alkali will remove very readily; but it should not be used too freely, as it rather softens the gums, and makes them extremely tender. Acids are also employed with success, as they dissolve the earth, but are attended with this disadvantage, that they act with more force upon the tooth itself, dissolving part of it; which is to be avoided, if possible, for no part of a sound tooth can be spared. We may observe that people who eat a good deal of salad or fruit have their teeth much cleaner than common, which is owing to the acids in those fruits; and for the same reason people’s teeth are com- monly cleaner in summer than winter in those countries where there is a great plenty of fruit. When the accumulation has been consider- able, the teeth and gums will feel tender on the removal of this matter, and even be affected by cold air; but this will not be of long continu- ance. CHAPTER VI. OF THE IRREGULARITY OF THE TEETH. As that part of each jaw which holds the ten fore teeth is exactly of the same size when it contains those of the first set as when it contains those of the second, and as these last often occupy a much larger space than the first*, in such cases the second set are obliged to stand very irregularly. This happens much oftener in the upper jaw than in the lower, be- cause the difference of the size of the two sets is much greater in that jaw. This irregularity is observed almost solely in the incisores and cus- pidati; for they are the only teeth which are larger than their prede- cessors. It most frequently happens to the cuspidati, because they are often