90 OF THE DISEASES might by slow degrees be moved to any part of the mouth, for I have seen the cuspidati pressed into the place of the incisores. However, it is observed that the teeth are easier moved backwards than forwards, and when moved back that they are permanent, but often when moved forwards that they are very apt to recede. The best time for moving the teeth is in youth, while the jaws have an adapting disposition; for after a certain time they do not so readily suit themselves to the irregularity of the teeth. This we see plainly to be the case when we compare the loss of a tooth at the age of fifteen years and at that of thirty or forty. In the first case we find that the two neighbouring teeth approach one another, in every part alike, till they are close; but in the second the distance in the jaw between the two neighbouring teeth remains the same, while the bodies will in a small degree incline to one another from want of lateral support. And this circumstance of the bodies of the teeth yielding to pressure upon their base, shows that even in the adult they might be brought nearer to one another by art properly applied. As the operation of moving the teeth is by lateral pressure upon their bodies, these bodies must first have passed through the gum suf- ficiently for a hold to be taken. The best time seems to be, when the two grinders of the child have been shed; for at this time a natural alteration is taking place in that part of the jaw. The means of making this pressure I shall only slightly describe, as they will greatly vary according to circumstances, so considerably, in- deed, that scarcely two cases are to be treated alike, and in general the dentists are tolerably well acquainted with the methods. In general, it is done with ligatures or plates of silver. The ligatures answer best when it is only required to bring two teeth closer together, which are pretty much in the circle. The trouble attending this is but trifling, as it is only that of having them tied once a week or fortnight. Where teeth growing out of the circle are to be brought into it, curved silver plates, of a proper construction, must be used. These are generally made to act on three points, two fixed points on the standing teeth, and the third on the tooth which is to be moved. That part of the plate which rests on the two standing teeth must be of a sufficient length for that purpose, while the curved part is short, and goes on the opposite side of the tooth to be moved. Its effect depends very much on the attention of the patient, who must frequently press hard upon it with the teeth of the opposite jaw; so that this method is much more troublesome to the patient than the ligature. It is impossible to give absolute directions what tooth or teeth ought