204 OF GONORRIICEA. patient is well, because, whenever the symptoms have ceased, the sur- geon and the patient will naturally suppose the cure to be complete ; but a new trial of those parts may prove the contrary, or in cases where the disease has never affected the urethra, but only the vagina, and still more where no symptoms have ever been observed, it will be more diffi- cult to fix the date of the cure; but general experience must direct the practitioner. When the inflammation runs along the ducts of the glands, whether those of the mouth of the vagina, or urethra, or affects the glands them- selves, the same method is to be followed; in particular, the mercurial ointment is to be freely applied to the parts. If the inflammation on the mouths of the ducts is so great as to shut them up, the duct and glands will suppurate, and form abscesses; in such cases it will be ne- cessary to open them, or enlarge the opening already formed, and dress the abscess as a chancre or bubo. In the case of a simple running the constitutional treatment will be taken notice of hereafter; but if any suppuration follow, the constitu- tion is to be treated as in chancres or buboes, for most probably ab- sorption will take place, and its effects must be guarded against. CHAPTER VI. OF THE TREATMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION IN THE CURE OF THE GONORRHCEA. In the cure of the gonorrhoea the constitution is in some cases to be as much attended to as the parts affected, if not more; but in general this is not necessary. The knowledge of the constitution is to be obtained in a great measure from the local symptoms, and as far as the consti- tutional treatment can be made similar to the local, they should cor- respond. We find in many strong plethoric constitutions, where both the powers and actions are great, that the symptoms are violent. These constitutions have generally a strong tendency to fever of the inflam- matory kind ; and probably the most distinguishing mark of such a con- stitution is that of the symptoms not extending beyond the specific