OF THE VENEREAL POISON. 151 its peculiar or specific irritation, joined with the aptness of the living principle to be irritated by such a cause, and the parts so irritated acting accordingly. I shall therefore consider it as a poison, which by irri- tating the living parts in a manner peculiar to itself, produces an inflam- mation peculiar to that irritation, from which a matter is produced peculiar to the inflammation. Let us consider how far this opinion agrees with the various phtenomena attending the disease. First, the venereal matter having a greater power of irritating than common matter, conveys more the idea of irritation than of fermentation. Secondly, its producing a specific disease with specific symptoms and appearances, shows that it has a specific power of irritation, the living powers necessarily acting according to that irritation. Thirdly, the cir- cumstance of the inflammation having its stated time of appearance and termination, is agreeable to the laws of the animal ceconomy in most cases, as it is a circumstance that takes place in other diseases that have a crisis; and when the disease is longer of duration in some than in others, it is because they are much more susceptible of this kind of irri- tation; and there may be perhaps other concurrent circumstances. Fourthly, the venereal inflammation being confined to a specific distance, is more agreeable to the idea of a specific irritation than that of a fer- mentation. Fifthly, we have a further proof of this opinion, from the appearance of the disease being translated from one part of the body to another, as in the case of the swelled testicle, in which the discharge is often stopped or otherwise affected. Sixthly, the discharge often stops from the constitution being attacked by a fever, and returns after some days or weeks, or not at all, according to the continuance of the fever. Now we can plainly see why the fever should put a stop to the discharge, as the disposition produced by it in a part, is very different from that disposition which formed the matter; and we can plainly see why the same disposition to form matter should often return; but how that re- turn should be venereal, upon the principles of fermentation, we do not see. Seventhly, the production by art of an irritation of another kind, which is not specific, removes the specific irritation: now an irritation of another kind cannot prevent the fermentation from going on, but may destroy the venereal irritation. Eighthly, the circumstance of par- ticular parts of our body being much more readily irritated than others by the venereal poison, when in the constitution, shows that it arises from an irritation, and that of a particular kind. Ninthly, we know of no other animal that is susceptible of the venereal irritation, for repeated trials have shown that it is impossible to give it to a dog, a bitch, or an ass*. It is much easier to suppose that a dog or an ass is not suscep- * I have repeatedly soaked lint in matter from a gonorrhoea, chancre, and bubo, and introduced it into the vagina of bitches, without producing any effect. I have also in-