135 INTRODUCTION. the structures*, these diseases producing the same specific effects in all the parts that are capable of being affected by them; but in diseases arising from accident a great difference in the degrees of action takes place, the parts from such a cause being allowed to act according to their natures ; which observation holds good also in the venereal disease. This difference appears to be chiefly in the degrees of strength and weakness in resisting morbid action. The less the natural powers of action are in any particular structure of parts, the less they are able to resist disease; therefore bone, tendon, ligament, and cellular membrane go through their morbid actions more slowly than muscle or skin; and this principle is applicable to the venereal disease. ยง.4. Of Parts susceptible of particular Diseases. There are some parts much more susceptible of specific diseases than others. Poisons take their different seats in the body as if allotted for them. Thus we have the skin attacked with what are vulgarly called scorbutic eruptions, and many other diseases; it is also the seat of the smallpox and the measles ; the throat is the seat of the hydrophobia and the hooping-cough. The scrofula attacks the absorbent system, espe- cially the glands. The breasts, testicles, and the conglomerate glands are the seat of cancer. The skin, throat, and nose are more readily affected by the lues venerea than the bones and periosteum; which, on the other hand, suffer sooner than many other parts, particularly the vital parts, which perhaps are not at all susceptible of the disease. ยง.5. Of Inflammation. I consider common inflammation to be an increased action of the smaller vessels of a part, joined with a peculiar mode of action, by which they are enabled to produce the following effects : to unite parts of the body to each other, to form pus, and to remove parts of the solids. These effects are not produced by a simple increase of action or enlarge- ment of the vessels, but by a peculiar action, which is at present per- haps not understood. These three effects of inflammation I have called distinct species of inflammation. That which unites parts I have called the adhesive in- * Here it is to be understood, that we do not include those parts which have a greater tendency to specific diseases than what many others have; as the lymphatics to the scrofula, the breast to the cancer.