276 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. in these cases: for the urethra being more irritable than common, it often resists the bougie before it reaches the true spasmodic part. When this is the case, force is not to be used; but we should rather wait a little with patience, and then make another attempt to push it on. Dipping the end of the penis in very cold water often removes the spasm, and the water flows immediately and freely. In most cases there is an uneasy sensation at the end of the penis, which leads the patient to rub those parts; and sometimes, though rarely, during the friction, the water will pass. Gently irritating in- jections, thrown in only a little way, often give ease. They may be supposed to act in a manner somewhat similar to a bougie that does not pass, and by irritating one part of the urethra to produce a relaxa- tion in the other. They act in some cases as a preventive. §.3. Of the Paralysis of the Urethra. In opposition to the foregoing disease, there is the want of power of contraction of the urethra; but this is not so frequent a case as the former. This disease is attended with symptoms contrary to those of the foregoing: the bladder is hardly allowed to be filled so as to give the stimulus of repletion, but the water dribbles away insensibly as fast as secreted by the kidneys; or if the bladder is filled so as to receive the stimulus for expulsion, then it immediately takes place, and the water flows, if the person does not act with the musculi acceleratores; but sometimes in such cases the power of contraction of these muscles is lost, and then the water will flow, whether the person will or not, there being little or no power of retention. There is great difference ,in the degrees of violence of this disease. §. 4. Cure of the Paralysis of the Urethra. It is to be cured by stimulants, as a blister to the loins, or a blister to the perinseum. It may be useful to immerse the feet in cold water. Tincture of cantharides, taken internally, fifteen or twenty drops once or twice a day, according to the effects, are of singular service in some cases. A man came tc St. George’s Hospital with this complaint. I ordered him the before-mentioned medicine, and it had such an effect as to bring on the contrary disease, or a spasmodic affection of the urethra.