OF GONORRIICE A. 194 this is ascertained, we have not in all cases the cure in our power; for I have already observed that some people are very susceptible of this irritation, who are, as it were, insensible to others; and, on the con- trary, many are easily affected by common inflammation, who are in- sensible to this. These last are rather uncommon dispositions, and the cure being always easy they demand little attention. When the sym- ptoms are violent, but of the common inflammatory kind, which is to be collected from the attending circumstances, particularly the extent of the inflammation not exceeding the specific distance, the local mode of cure may be either irritating or soothing. Irritating applications in the present case may be attended with less danger than in the irritable inflammation*, and may alter the specific action; but to produce this effect it must be greater than the irritation from the original injury. The parts will afterwards recover of themselves, as from any other com- mon inflammation. After all, however, I believe the soothing plan is the best at the beginning. If the inflammation be great, and of the irri- table kind, no violence is to be used in the cure (for it will only increase the symptoms), unless we know that the great degree of inflammation arises entirely from a susceptibility of this irritation, and that there is no general irritability in the constitution, which seldom can be ascer- tained. In cases where the symptoms run high, nothing should be done that may tend to stop the discharge, either by internal or external means; for nothing would be gained thereby, as we may stop the discharge, and not put an end to the inflammation. The constitution is to be altered, if possible, by remedies adapted to each disposition, with a view to alter the actions of the parts arising from such dispositions, and reduce the disease to its simple form. If the constitution cannot be altered, nothing is to be done but to allow the action to wear itself out. When the inflammation has considerably abated, and the disease only remains in a mild form, its cure may be attempted either by internal re- medies or local applications. If a local cure be attempted, violence is still to be avoided, because it may bring back the irritation. At this period gentle astringents may be applied with a prospect of success; or, if the disease has begun mildly, and there are no signs of an inflamma- * It is very difficult to give clear ideas of distinctions in disease, when they are not marked by something permanent as to time, space, &c. I have used the term “ irri- table inflammation,” because I think this kind of inflammation takes place more in weak irritable habits than in others: it appears to be guided by no law that I am acquainted with. It may be called an ill-formed inflammation, as not going through the usual process to a natural termination, but continuing with little variation; and if such in- flammation were to take place in the cellular membrane, it would rather produce an cedematous swelling than such as arises from the extravasation of coogulable lymph, which takes place in what I would call the true inflammation.