403 OF THE LUES VENEREA. the disease a second and even a third time, and so on, while the second or third in order would be going on and only coming into their first action; and therefore we might have those that are first in order, and those that are second in order, in action at the same time. This might be carried still further, for as it is possible for the parts first in order of susceptibility to have the disease a second time, while the parts second in order are under the influence of the first infection, those first in order may be contaminated a second time from a new or fresh infection, which would be a lues venerea upon a lues venerea, a case which cer- tainly may happen. If the matter does really continue in the consti- tution, it would be natural to suppose that the parts most easily affected by it would remain so long as the poison remained. It may indeed be alleged, that parts which have already been accustomed to this irritation, and cured, are rendered by that means less susceptible of it. If the poison were still capable of circulating after its visible effects were cured, then mercury given in the time of a chancre can be of little service, as it can only assist in the cure of the chancre, but cannot pre- serve the constitution from infection, which does not agree with expe- rience ; for practice informs us, that not one in fifty would escape the lues venerea if the chancre were only cured locally; so that mercury has the power of preventing a disposition from forming, and therefore is necessary to be given while we suppose absorption going on, or while there is matter that may be absorbed. Mercury, prior to the action, will not remove the disposition, and of course will not hinder the action coming on afterwards ; however, it is possible, and most probable, that the medicine while it is present will hinder the action taking place ; so that no venereal complaints will take place under the course of mercury, although the parts may be contami- nated. This is not peculiar to the venereal disease, but common to many others; and in some it may be reversed, for there are diseases whose disposition can be cured, and therefore the action prevented by such medicines as would rather increase the action if given in the time of it. The parts first affected are more easily cured, according to our pre- sent method, than the parts second in order. A part once perfectly cured is never irritated again by the same stock of infection, though probably some other parts in the constitution are still under the venereal irritation. If the facts stated be just, the circumstance of the disease appearing to leave the parts first attacked, and attacking the secondary parts, is easily accounted for. It is no more than the first parts being cured while the secondary are not, and of course going on with the dis- ease, the first remaining well. 2 n 2