84 OF THE DISEASES A very common one is the thickening of the gum in some particular place, of a hard callous nature, similar to an excrescence. Many of these have a cancerous appearance, 'which deters the surgeon from meddling with them ; but in general without reason. They may be often removed by the knife, but not always. The bleeding which follows is generally so considerable that it is frequently necessary to apply the actual cautery. They sometimes grow again, which subjects the patient to the same operation. I have known them extracted six times; but in such cases I suspect that they really have a cancerous disposition; at least, it has been so in two cases w’hich have fallen under my observation. But here the skill of the surgeon rather than that of the dentist is required. CHAPTER IV. OF NERVOUS PAINS IN THE JAWS. There is one disease of the jaws which seems in reality to have no con- nexion with the teeth, but of which the teeth are generally suspected to be the cause. This deserves to be taken notice of in this place because operators have frequently been deceived by it, and even sound teeth have sometimes been extracted through an unfortunate mistake. This pain is seated in some one part of the jaws. As simple pain demonstrates nothing, a tooth is often suspected, and is perhaps drawn out; but still the pain continues, with this difference, however, that it now seems to be in the root of the next tooth: it is then supposed either by the patient or the operator that the wrong tooth was extract- ed, whereupon that in which the pain now seems to be is drawn, but with as little benefit. I have known cases of this kind where all the teeth of the affected side of the jaw have been drawn out, and the pain has continued in the jaw; in others it has had a different effect, the sensation of pain has become more diffused, and has at last attacked the corresponding side of the tongue. In the first case I have known it recommended to cut down upon the jaw, and even to perforate and cauterize it, but all without effect. Hence it should appear that the pain in question does not arise from any disease in the part, but is entirely a nervous affection.