172 OF GONORR1ICEA. the penis in general, and from the internal membrane of the urethra being swollen by the inflammation, and also from its being in a spas- modic state. Besides these changes, the fear of the patient whilst void- ing his urine assists in diminishing the stream of urine. The stream, as it flows from the urethra, is generally much scattered and broken as soon as it leaves the passage, which is owing to the internal canal having become irregular, and is not peculiar to a venereal gonorrhoea, but com- mon to every disease of the urethra that alters the exact and natural figure of the canal, even although the irregularity is very far back. This we find in many diseased prostate glands*. There is frequently some degree of haemorrhage from the urethra. This I suppose arises from the distention of the vessels, more especially when there is a chordee, or a tendency to one. There are often small swellings observable along the lower surface of the penis in the course of the urethra. These, I suspect, are the glands of the urethra so enlarged as to be plainly felt on the outside. They inflame so much in some cases as to suppurate, and, according to the laws of ulceration, the matter is brought to the skin, forming one, two, or more abscesses, along the under surface of the urethra; and some of these breaking internally, form what are called internal ulcers. I have observed in several cases a tumour on the under side of the penis, where the urethra is, which would swell at times very considerably, even to the size of a small flattened nut, inflame, and then, a gush of matter flowing from the urethra, would almost immediately subside. The dis- charge has continued for some time, gradually diminishing till it has entirely gone off, and the tumour has been almost wholly reduced; yet after some months it has swelled in the same manner again, and termi- nated in the same way. How far these tumours, and the matter they discharge, are really venereal when they appear first, may be doubtful; and it is difficult to determine this, for the patients in general have re- course to medicine immediately; but in their subsequent attacks they are certainly not venereal, for they cure themselves. I have suspected these tumours to be the ducts or lacunae of the glands of the urethra, distended with mucus, from the mouth of the duct being closed, in a manner similar to what happens to the duct leading from the lachrymal sac to the nose : and in consequence of the distention of the ducts or lacunae, inflammation and suppuration come on, and ulcera- * Added : “ In some instances the first symptoms are unusual sensations in the penis, especially while making water, which come on a few days after receiving the infection, attended with constitutional irritability, sensations in the testicles, neck of the bladder, and anus; these continue for about ten days, when a discharge comes on, and they dis- appear.”—Home.