389 OF THE LUES VENEREA. any cuticle when born. It was immediately after birth attacked with a violent dysentery. It died in a few days, and was opened by me. The whole skin was almost one excoriated surface. The intestines were much inflamed and thickened. With her fifth child, from great care, she went eight months, and it was now hoped that she might go the full time, and also that this child might be more healthy than the former. When she was delivered the child was very thin, but free from any visible disease. Some days after birth it became blistered in a vast number of places on its body, which blisters were filled with a kind of matter, and, when they broke, discharged a thinnish pus. The inside of the mouth was in the same condition. Bark was given to the nurse. Bark, in milk, was given to the child by the mouth, and it was fomented with a decoction of bark, but in about three weeks after birth it died. Some weeks after the death of the child the nurse’s nipple, and the ring round the nipple, inflamed, and sores or ulcers were formed with a circumscribed base*. They were poulticed, but without benefit. She also complained of a sore throat, but the sensation she complained of was so low in the throat that no disease could be seen. A swelling took place in the glands of the armpit, but they did not suppurate. She applied to a physician, and according to the account which she gave, he pronounced that her disease was venereal, and that she had given suck to a foul child; and he ordered ten boxes of mercurial ointment to be rubbed in on her legs and thighs, eight of which had been used when I saw her, and then her mouth was become extremely sore. These circumstances came to the ears of the family, and an alarm took place. The husband went from surgeon to surgeon, and from physician to physician, to learn if it was possible for him to have the disease for fourteen years, and never to have perceived a single symptom of it in all that time; or if it was possible he could get children with the disease now, when the two first were healthy. He also wanted to know if it was possible for his wife to have caught the disease from him under such circumstances, and also, if she could breed children with this disease, although she herself never had a single symptom of it. If we take all the above-mentioned circumstances as facts, the conclusion is, that it was impossible there could be anything venereal in the case ; but as they could not be absolutely proved to be facts, there must remain a doubt in the mind, a something still to be proved. Now let us consider the result of the case. The nurse’s mouth was become extremely sore from the mercury when I first saw her. I de- * Slic liad but one breast that gave milk.