SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHtEA. 257 CHAPTER VI. OF DISEASES IN CONSEQUENCE OF A PERMANENT STRICTURE IN THE URETHRA. Strictures in the urethra produce almost constantly diseases in the parts beyond them ; that is, in the part of the urethra between the stricture and the bladder. They bring on in most cases a gleet, as has been described, and often a considerable distension of the part of the canal beyond the stricture ; also inflammation and ulceration, and in consequence of them diseases in the surrounding parts, as in Cowper’s glands, the prostate, and the surrounding cellular membrane, forming abscesses there, and at last ulceration, for the purpose of making a new passage for the urine. The bladder is also often affected, and some- times the ureters, with the pelvis of the kidneys, and in some cases the kidneys themselves. All these are effects of every permanent obstruc- tion to the urine; some of them are methods which Nature takes to re- lieve the parts from the immediate complaints; such are the increase of the urethra beyond the stricture, and the enlargement of the ureters and pelvis of the kidneys, which are only to be considered as the parts accommodating themselves to the immediate consequence of the ob- struction, which is the accumulation of urine. Of these complaints I shall take notice in their order. §. 1. Of the Enlargement of the Urethra. The urethra beyond the stricture I have observed is enlarged, because it is more passive than the bladder, and yields to the pressure of the urine. It is naturally passive while the bladder is acting, by which means it becomes distended in proportion to the force with which the bladder acts, and the resistance of the stricture. Its internal surface often becomes more irregular and fasciculated. It is also more irritable, the distension becoming often the immediate cause of spasms in that part, and these spasms are most probably excited with a view to coun- teract the effort produced by the action of the bladder. VOL. II. s