256 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. taking hold of the urethra between the finger and thumb on the outside, that the two ends were close together. What was to be done next was our consideration; it immediately struck us that we might force our way through the stricture with safety. The gentleman who assisted me in the operation passed a blowpipe one fifth of an inch in diameter (being not sufficiently furnished with instruments,) from the wound forwards to the stricture ; and then I took a silver cannula, open at both ends, which had an iron piercer longer than itself, and passed it down to the stricture from the glans ; and now the end of the cannula opposed the end of the blowpipe, and they were almost close upon one another. They were kept in this position, with the finger and thumb applied on the outside of the penis, like splints on a broken bone. I then intro- duced the piercer and pushed it on, which went through the stricture into the hollow of the blowpipe. Great c&re was taken not to push too forcibly, lest the two ends of the hollow tubes should slip by one an- other, which they would do if not held firmly, as actually happened twice in this case; but we succeeded the third time. I then pushed on the cannula through the stricture, and with it pushed out the blowpipe. The next object was to pass a hollow bougie along the urethra to the bladder, to do which the small end of it was introduced into the can- nula, which being pushed on forced out the cannula at the wound; we then passed a director into the other orifice of the urethra, leading on to the bladder, and put the end of the bougie into the groove of the di- rector, and pushed it along the groove to the bladder; and before we withdrew the director we turned it round with its back to the bougie, that the end of the bougie might not stop against the end of the groove, and so be pulled out again. After all this was done one stitch was made in the urethra, but the external wound in the skin was left for the passage of the urine, that it might not insinuate itself into the cellular membrane. We dressed the wound superficially, and applied the T bandage, which was slit to go on each side of the scrotum, and just where it came to the scrotum we tied the two ends together, which sup- ported the scrotum and kept it forwards on the penis ; and the two ends that came from this knot on each side of the scrotum were tied to the circular part that came round the body. The patient had some slight fever for a day or two, and the urine came partly through the bougie and partly by the side of it, through the wound. A swelling of one testicle came on ; likewise a swelling of the glands of the groin, pain in the belly, sickness, and at times vomiting, all which symptoms were owing to sympathy, and entirely went off in five or six days. The water, in nearly the same time, came entirely by the natural passage. The bougie was changed from time to time till the cure was completed.