147 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. §. (>. Of the Cause of the poisonous Quality—Fermentation— Action. As the consideration and explanation of this point will throw some light upon the disease and cure, I may be allowed to dwell a little upon tion of chancres, followed by bubo, and by secondary symptoms. The experiment is related, at length, in Part VI., Chap, ii., Sect. 2, of the present work. But, nevertheless, the identity of the poison of gonorrhoea with that of chancre has been disputed, and that on no slight grounds. In reply to the argument drawn from the transfer of the venereal disease to the islands in the South Seas, it has been denied that the disease exists there at all. Mr. Wilson, surgeon to His Majesty’s ship Porpoise, visited Otaheite in 1801, and, after a careful investigation, came to the conclusion that the venereal disease was then unknown in that island. It may also be alleged, that even if the disease actually prevails there, as has been reported by others, it by no means follows that it must have been originally carried thither in the form of gonorrhoea. The facts stated by John Hunter do not bear out his conclusion. Bougainville left the Rio de la Plata in November 1767, and arrived at Otaheite in April 1768. It is very possible that a chancre might have existed dur- ing the five months which intervened. Cases frequently occur in which primary sores continue for a much longer period, without occasioning any remarkable destruction, and certainly without at all rendering the subject incapable of sexual intercourse. The author affirms that cases occur in which true chancres are produced in those parts which are steeped in the discharge of a gonorrhoea. At the same time he acknow- ledges that such a circumstance is extremely rare. Yet nothing is more common than that excoriations should arise on the surface of the glans, or on the inside of the pre- puce, from the contact of gonorrhoeal matter. These excoriations, if neglected, will last for an indefinite period ; but if the irritating matter is carefully removed by very frequent ablution, they will heal in two or three days, without the least necessity for the exhi- bition of mercury. Why do they not assume the characters of chancres, or infect the system ? Surely their innocence affords a negative proof of the diversity of the virus, more strong than the very rare occurrence of true chancres can be supposed to give of its identity. For It must not be forgotten, that in these cases the chancre may be attri- buted to another cause. It may be that the patient has again exposed himself to infec- tion, and that the chancre has arisen from this second exposure. The patient under such circumstances is naturally disposed to conceal his misconduct. Still he may often be induced to confess it on a strict examination ; and in those cases where no such avowal can be elicited, it is perhaps most reasonable to suspect that it is only prevented by shame. It cannot be denied that there are cases in which secondary symptoms appear to be the consequence of gonorrhoea; but these are so rare, that they must rather be con- sidered as anomalies which we cannot as yet account for, than be admitted in contra-? diction to the general current of experience. The secondary symptoms in such in- stances are rarely of an indubitable character. It may be doubted whether distinct copper tubercles ever followed simple gonorrhoea. We have generally a mottled state of the skin, or the lighter and more fugitive forms of lichen, or slight excoriation of the surface of the tonsil. It has been asserted that women who are affected with gonorrhoea alone, will fre- l 2