OF THE DISEASES 82 CHAPTER III. OF THE DISEASES OF THE GUMS, AND THE CONSE- QUENCES OF THEM. ยง. 1. The Scurvy in the Gums (vulgarly so called). The gums are extremely subject to diseases, the symptoms of which, in an advanced state of them, are in general such as were described in the preceding chapter. They swell, become extremely tender, and bleed upon every occa- sion ; which circumstances being somewhat similar to those observable in the true scurvy, the disease has generally been called a scurvy in the gums. But as this seems to be the principal way in which the gums are affected, I suspect that the same symptoms may arise from various causes, as I have often seen the same appearances in children evi- dently of a scrofulous habit, and have also suspected the same cause in grown people : they likewise frequently appear in persons who are in all other respects perfectly healthy. When the gums first begin to have a tenderness, we may observe it first on their edges: the common smooth skin of the gum is not con- tinued to its very edge, but becomes at the edge a little rough like a border, and somewhat thickened. The part of the gum between two teeth swells, and often pushes out like luxuriant flesh, which is fre- quently very tender. The inflammation is often carried so far as to make the gums ulce- rate, so that the gums in many cases have a common ulcer upon them, by which process a part of the teeth is denuded. This is often on one part only, often only on one jaw, while in some cases it is on the whole gums on both jaws. In this case it often happens that the alveolar process disappears. increase it to a great degree. It would also tend greatly to lessen the attachment of the tooth to the socket, and the support which the latter affords to'it. The best mode of treatment appears to be, to apply leeches occasionally, particularly when there is any unusual sensation produced by touching the tooth, indicating a degree of inflammation in the periosteum of the socket. This plan may be followed up by the use of astrin- gent lotions. It is unnecessary to add, that any force applied to the tooth, and even fre- quently touching it, should be avoided. Ligatures are especially improper.]