18 THE NATURAL HISTORY then in some teeth we shall have white, then red, and then white again; and so we shall have the red and the white colour alternately through the whole tooth. This experiment shows that the tooth, once tinged, does not lose its colour: now as all other bones that have not been tinged lose their co- lour in time, when the animal leaves off feeding with madder (though very slowly), and as that dye must be taken into the constitution by the absorbents, it would seem that the teeth are without absorbents as well as other vessels. This shows that the growth of the teeth is very different from that of other bones. Bones begin at a point, and shoot out at their surface, and the part that seems already formed is not in reality so, for it is forming every day by having new matter thrown into it, till the whole substance is complete; and even then it is constantly changing its matter. Another circumstance in which teeth seem different from bone, and a strong circumstance in support of their having no circulation in them, is, that they never change by age, and seem never to undergo any alteration when completely formed but by abrasion : they do not grow softer, like the other bones, as we find in some cases, where the whole earthy matter of the bones has been taken into the constitution. From these experiments it would appear that the teeth are to be considered as extraneous bodies, with respect to a circulation through their substance; but they have most certainly a living principle, by which means they make part of the body, and are capable of uniting with any part of a living body, as will be explained hereafter. It is to be observed, that affections of the whole body have less influence upon the teeth than any other part of the body. Thus, in children affected with the rickets, the teeth grow equally well as in health, though all the other bones are much affected; and hence their teeth being of a larger size in proportion to the other parts, their mouths are protuberant3. * [As the arguments which are here adduced against the vascularity of the teeth are wholly insufficient, and in many respects inconsistent with each other, it will be use- ful to examine into the true bearing of the observations on which they are founded. The failure of all attempts to inject the substance of the teeth, with even the finest of the matters usually employed for filling the minute branches of arteries in other struc- tures of the body, can scarcely be considered as conclusive, since the colouring matter is, in all of them, too dense and coarse to pass into the vessels of many other parts, which, though in the healthy condition they do not convey red blood, yet, in a state of inflammation, become evidently injected with red particles. I have, however, on an- other occasion, alluded to two very conclusive facts, which appear unanswerably to prove the vascularity of the teeth. One is the occasional occurrence of red patches in