OF THE LUES VENEREA. 436 so as to avoid violent evacuation, any quantity may be thrown in suffi- cient for the cure of the disease. Certain evacuations may be supposed to be a mark of the constitu- tional effects of mercury, but they are not to be entirely depended upon, the secretions being only a proof of the susceptibility of some parts to such a stimulus ; however, it is probable that in general they are a good gauge of its constitutional effects. Some have gone so far as to sup- pose that quantity of mercury alone, without any sensible effects, is sufficient for the cure of the disease ; and this is in some degree the case, but not completely so, for we have no good proof of its affecting the constitution but by its producing an increase of some of the secretions. ยง.4. Of the Action of Mercury. Mercury can have but two modes of action, one on the poison, the other on the constitution : we can hardly suppose it to act both ways. If mercury acted upon the poison only, it might be supposed to be in two ways, either by destroying its qualities by decomposing it, or by attracting it and carrying it out of the constitution. If the first were the action of mercury, then we might reasonably suppose that quantity alone would be the thing to be depended upon; if the second, that the quantity of evacuation would be the principal circumstance. But if it act upon the principle of destroying the diseased action of the living parts, counteracting the venereal irritation by producing another of a different kind, then neither quantity alone, nor evacuation, will avail much ; but it will be quantity joined with sensible effects that will produce the quickest cure, which from experience we find to be the case. But although the effects that mercury has upon the venereal dis- ease are in some degree in proportion to its local effects on some of the glands, or some particular part of the body, as the mouth, skin, kidneys and intestines, yet it is not exactly in this proportion, as has been mentioned. When mercury disagrees as it were constitutionally, producing great irritability and hectic symptoms, this action or irritation is not a coun- ter-irritation to the venereal disease, but is a constitutional irritation having no effect on the disease, which continues to increase. Mercury, losing its effects upon the disease by use, gives a proof that it neither acts chemically, nor by carrying off the poison by evacuation, but by its stimulating power. The effects will always be in proportion to the quantity in a given time, joined with the susceptibility of the constitution to the mercurial irritation. These circumstances require the minutest attention ; and in