355 OF BUBO. driven there it could not be by stopping the formation of matter, but by increasing the absorption, of which they had no idea. When we examine the opinion of authors concerning the formation of bubo, prior to the knowledge of the power of absorption in the lym- phatics, we shall find them making use of terms which they could not possibly understand. For instance, Heister says, “ They are of two kinds, one venereal, and the other not; but he does not say that the venereal arises only from impure coition. Astruc says, p. 326, that some buboes arise immediately from impure coition, and these he calls essential; others from suppressed gonorrhoea, or a small discharge, or from chancres of the penis, and these he calls symptomatic ; lastly, that they arise spontaneously without any imme- diate previous coition, and are a pathognomonic sign of a hidden pox. In p. 327 he shows the impossibility of this last happening from what we now call or understand by a lues venerea ; but in p. 328 he explains what he calls a latent lues venerea, which is local affection produced as he supposes from a lues venerea, but which most probably never yet happened ; and if ever they had arisen from such a cause, even the ab- sorption of their matter could not produce a venereal bubo, as wilkbe explained. In short, as he understood not the true absorbing system, his ideas are become now unintelligible*. We find Cowper, Drake, and Boerhaave, as well as Astruc, speaking of the vitiated lymph not passing the glands, therefore inflaming them ; also of the inspissated lymph passing, either by the circulation of the blood, that is, from the constitution to these glands, (an opinion held by some to this day,) or by a shorter course, viz. the lymphatic vessels which go to the inguinal glands. They also speak of the swelling of the inguinal glands, or venereal buboes, from the contagion being com- municated by the resorbent lymphatics. Drake even speaks more point- edly ; and, if we consider him no further, he would almost make us believe that he knew that the lymphatics were the absorbents; but as he has no such ideas when treating of those vessels expressly, we are not to give him credit for it. His words are : “ The venereal bubo may very likely take its rise from some parts of the contagious matter of claps sucked up by the lymphatics of the penis, and thence imported to the inguinal glands, where they deposit their liquor; and thence it well behoves the surgeon to be as early as may be in the opening of such tumours, before by the exporting vessels of that class the poison is carried further into the blood, which very probably may be the case where such tumour ariseth immediately upon the stopping of a gonor- • The above extracts are from the English edition, published in the year 1754. 2 a 2