OF CHANCRE. 347 drink, and after having used a great variety of dressings (which were all at last laid aside, and opium only retained to quiet the pain), he bathed in the sea and got well. It may be sometimes necessary to pass a bougie, to hinder the orifice of the urethra from closing or becoming too small in the time of healing in such casesa. a [The description of the author is so vague that it is difficult to know with certainty what species of sore he here intends to designate. But it is probable that he chiefly refers to those sores which are called phagedenic, and which are of sufficient importance to require a particular description. The name phagedenic has been given to them because they have been supposed to be the same with the ulcers described by Celsus under the name of phagedaena. Though the correctness of this supposition may be questioned, yet there is a conve- nience in retaining a name which not unaptly characterizes the ulcer, whether we re- gard the occasional rapidity of its progress, or the most remarkable features which di- stinguish its aspect. It can scarcely be doubted that phagedenic ulcers arise from the application of a virus, since there is no satisfactory evidence that they ever occur where the party has not been exposed to infection, and since they are as constantly followed by secondary symptoms, as the genuine forms of chancre which have been previously described. Nor, though much attention has been paid to the subject, has it been possible to trace such a constant distinction as would establish that the virus which produces them is different from that which gives origin to the common Hunterian chancre. The cha- racters of the phagedenic sore are very different from those of a common chancre; and if there is a diversity of virus, this diversity should be constant, and should be capable of being traced equally in the giver and the recipient; in the party from which the in- fection is derived, as well as in that to which it is communicated. But it has not been found possible to ascertain that this is the case. On the contrary, the phagedenic sore has in several instances appeared to have been derived from individuals who have suf- fered from the common forms of chancre. The phagedenic sore begins with slight tumefaction of the part, and slight excoriation of the surface. This excoriated surface soon becomes foul, being covered with a yellow slough, and discharging a watery sanies of a brownish tinge. As the sore destroys the part on which it is situated the surface becomes uneven, and the outline of the sore irregular in shape, and, as it were, scolloped. These appearances are produced by the mode of progress, which is not regular and uniform in every direction, but proceeds in some parts more rapidly than in others. The central part, and perhaps one of the edges, then ceases to spread, and becomes clean, while on other sides the foul character remains, and the sore continues to extend. The part which is spreading is always somewhat tumefied, but the tumefaction is that of common inflammation, and is not distinctly defined, like that of an ordinary chancre. It does not terminate abruptly, but passes imperceptibly into the surrounding structure. In fact it is merely caused by the irritation of the spreading sore: the clean edge is altogether free from it. As soon as a part cleans, the tumefaction subsides, though the ulceration may remain long afterwards unhealed. The tumefaction cannot be said to precede the ulceration; it rather attends the sloughing, if that can be called sloughing which is in general only foul ulceration. The phagedenic sore may destroy any part on which it is placed, but its ravages in- volve the cellular membrane more readily than either the prepuce or the body of the penis. The consequence is, that in most cases it burrows between the body and the