OF CHANCRE. 333 dressings; but if the mercury were joined with watery substances in- stead of oily, by mixing with the matter the application would be con- tinued longer to the sore, and would prove more effectual. This is an advantage that poultices have over common dressings. I have often used mercury rubbed down with some conserve in the room of an oint- ment, and it has answered extremely well. Calomel, used in the same way, and also the other preparations of mercury mixed with mucilage or with honey, answer the same purpose. Such dressings will effect a cure in cases that are truly venereal; but perhaps we seldom have a constitution quite free from some morbid tendency. Some will have an indolent disposition, to counteract which it will be right to join with the mercury some warm balsam in a small pro- portion, or as much red precipitate as will only stimulate, without act- ing as an escharotic ; and sometimes both may be necessary. Calomel mixed with some salve, or any other substance which will suspend it, is more active than common mercurial ointment, and in such cases as require stimulating applications it will answer better. Many other applications are recommended, such as solutions of blue vitriol, verdigris, calomel, with the spiritus nitri dulcis,. and many others. But as all of these are only of service in remedying any peculiar dis- position of the parts, having no specific power on the venereal poison, and as such dispositions are innumerable, it becomes almost impossible to say what will be effectual in every disposition : some will answer in one state of the sores, some in another. It may be found oftentimes that the parts affected are extremely irritable : in such cases it will be necessary to mix the mercury with opium, or perhaps preparations of lead, as white or red lead, to diminish the action of the parts. The oftener the dressings are shifted the better, as the matter from the sore separates the application from the diseased parts, by which means the effects are lost or diminished. Three times every day in many cases is not oftener than necessary, especially if the dressings are of the unctuous kind ; for they do not mix, like watery dressings, with the matter, so as to impart some of their virtues to it, which would in a proportional degree affect the sore. Chancres, after having their venereal taint corrected, often become stationary, and having acquired new dispositions, increase the quantity of disease in the part, as will be taken notice of hereafter. When they become stationary only they may often be cured by touching them slightly with the lunar caustic. They seem to require that the surface which has been contaminated, or the new flesh which grows upon that surface, should he either destroyed or altered before it can cicatrise ;