387 OF THE LUES VENEREA. I ordered a person, at St. George’s Hospital, to be inoculated with the matter taken from a well-marked venereal ulcer on the tonsil, and also with matter from a gonorrhoea, which produced the same effects as in the preceding experiment; that is, the matter from a gonorrhoea pro- duced a chancre, but that from the tonsil had no effect. A woman, aged twenty-five, came into St. George’s Hospital, August 21, 1782, with sores on her legs, and blotches over her body. Her husband gave her the venereal disease December 1781. Her symptoms then were a discharge from the vagina, and a small swelling of the glands of the groin, which were painful. She had taken some pills supposed to be mercurial. February 1782, about three months after being infected, the discharge stopped ; but the swelling, which had been gradually increasing ever since its first appearance, had now suppurated. She applied some ointment to it, which was brought to her by her hus- band, and in two months it got well, that is, in April 1782. After the bubo got well a discharge from the vagina came on, for which she took more of the same pills she had taken before. After this time blotches came out over her whole body; some about her legs, under her arms, and upon her nipples, ulcerated. Twins, which she brought forth at eight months, in March 1782, at the time the bubo was healing, had blotches upon them at their birth, and died soon after. Another girl, about two years old, whom she suckled, was also co- vered with blotches when she came to the hospital. To ascertain whether her secondary ulcers were infectious, that is, whether the matter of them would have the specific effects of venereal matter, she was inoculated with some matter from one of her own ul- cers, and with some matter from a bubo of another person where mer- cury had not been used. This was done September 18, 1782. Sep- tember 19, the puncture where she was inoculated writh her own matter gave her pain three hours from the time of inoculation, and the day following inflamed a little. The other had not then inflamed at all. September 20, both the punctures had suppurated, and had the ap- pearance of a smallpox pustule ; they spread considerably, and were at- tended with much inflammation. That from her own matter healed with common poultices, and ointments without mercury ; but the other, although treated in a similar way, continued in the same state, attended with much pain and inflammation. September 22, the child was inoculated with some matter from one of its own ulcers, and with some common pus. The punctures both inflamed in a small degree, but neither of them suppurated. The mother and the child went into the ward appropriated to sali- 2 c 2