195 OF GONORRHOEA. tory disposition either of the common kind or the irritable, in order to get rid of the specific mode of action quickly, an irritating injection may be used, which will increase the symptoms for a time, but when it is left off they will often abate or wholly disappear. In such a state of parts, astringents may be used ; for the only thing to be done is to pro- cure a cessation of the discharge, which is now the principal symptom.* In those cases where the itching, pain, and other uncommon sensa- tions are felt for some time before the discharge appears, I should be inclined to recommend the quieting or soothing plan instead of the irri- tating, with a view to bring on the discharge, as that effect is a step towards a resolution of the irritation; but how far it would really be the proper plan I cannot absolutely say, not having had experience enough in such cases. One thing, however, I think I may assert from reasoning, that to use astringents would be bad practice, as they would rather tend to prevent the discharge from taking place, which might prolong the inflammation and protract the cure. In cases of stricture, or in cases of diseased testicles, I believe, astringents should not be used; for we find in either case, while the discharge lasts, both com- plaints are relieved; therefore in such cases we should proceed with more caution than when all the parts are otherwise sound. If we had a specific for venereal gonorrhoea, it would still be a question whether this specific could cure the irritation before the full action had taken place. §. 1. Of the different Modes of Practice.—Evacuants,— Astringents. The internal remedies commonly recommended in a gonorrhoea may be divided into evacuants and astringents. The evacuants are princi- pally of the purgative or diuretic kind, and these not confined to any particular medicines; for every practitioner supposes that he is in pos- session of the best. Some use mercurial evacuants, while others care- fully avoid mercury in every form. The neutral salts have been given, from the idea of their being cooling. Some of the profession have kept principally to diuretics, perhaps with two views, as evacuants acting upon the urinary passages mechanically, to wash off the venereal mat- ter, or as specifics for the latter purpose : nitre has been given with this view; besides, it has been supposed to lessen inflammation; but its * Added: “ It is very common when the discharge is stopped by an injection, even of a mild kind, to have an uneasy sensation in the perinaeum, and continued on to the bladder, producing frequency in making water, and on the return of the discharge these sensations immediately cease.”—Homo. o 2