THE NATURAL HISTORY 8 other a little. The anterior and outer portion of the muscle begins to rise from a small part of the lower edge of the malar process of the max- illary bone, adjoining to the os malse ; and continues its origin all along the lower horizontal edge of this last bone to the angle where its zygo- matic process turns up to join that of the temporal bone. The external layer of fibres in this portion is tendinous at its beginning, while the internal is fleshy. The posterior and inner portion of this muscle begins to rise, partly tendinous and partly fleshy, from the same lower edge of the os malae : not where the origin of the other portion terminates, but a little further forwards ; and this origin is continued along the lower edge of the zygo- matic process of the temporal bone, as far backwards as the eminence belonging to the articulation of the lower jaw. From this extent of its origin the muscle passes downwards to its insertion into the lower jaw. The anterior external portion is broader at its insertion than at its origin; for it occupies a triangular space of the lower jaw; which, above the angle and on the outside, is about an inch in breadth, but below about an inch and a half, from the angle towards the chin. In consequence of this extent of insertion, the fibres of this portion divaricate very considerably. They are mostly fleshy at their insertion, a few only being tendinous, particularly those that are inserted backwards. The posterior and inner portion of the masseter is narrower at its insertion than at its origin; its posterior fibres running forwards as well as downwards, while its anterior run almost directly downwards. It occupies in its insertion the remaining part of the scabrous surface above the angle of the lower jaw', which lies between the anterior portion and the two upper processes, viz. the condyle and coronoid. As the anterior fibres of this portion rise on the inside of the posterior fibres of the other portion, and as its posterior fibres run for- wards as well as downwards, and its anterior run almost directly down- wards, while the fibres of the other portion radiate both forwards and backwards ; these two portions in some measure decussate, or cross one another. The anterior fibres, which run furthest and lowest down, are tendinous at their insertion, while the posterior and shortest are fleshy. The use of the whole muscle is to raise the lower jaw; and when it is brought forwards, the posterior and inner portion will assist in bring- ing it a little back: so that this muscle becomes a rotator, if the jaw happens to be turned to the opposite side. We may observe that this muscle is intermixed with a number of tendinous portions, both at its origin and its insertion; which give rise to a greater number of fleshy fibres, and thereby add to the strength of the muscle.