SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 282 great ease, and the water was drawn off. The late Mr. Tomkyns, who had Daran’s bougie, was called; but he was not more successful, and was obliged to have recourse to the catheter; but such violence was used as caused a good deal of blood to come from the urethra, and after all it did not succeed. I was again consulted, and passed the catheter, but with much more difficulty than before, which made me believe that the passage had been a good deal torn. Upon taking out the catheter I passed a large bougie into the bladder with great ease ; this I allowed to remain for three days, and the patient made water tolerably freely by the side of it. The moment I drew out the bougie I attempted to pass another, but did not succeed, although I gave it the natural bend of the passage. Upon withdrawing those bougies that did not pass, I observed that all of them had a bend at the point, contrary to the direc- tion of the passage ; this made me suspect that the place which stopped the bougie was on the posterior surface, and that by being pushed on, it bent forwards into the passage, and of course the point turned back. I therefore took a thick bougie, and before I introduced it I bent the point almost double, so that it could not catch at the posterior surface of the urethra, where I supposed the stop to be : this point of the bou- gie rubbed all along the anterior and upper surface of the urethra, by which means it avoided catching on the posterior surface, and it passed with great ease into the bladder. He made water by the side of the bougie, as before. He had been for some time troubled with fits of an intermittent, which at first were very irregular, but became afterwards more regular. In one of the cold fits, the bougie, being in the urethra, gave him great pain, and obliged him at last to pull it out, on which he had immediate ease. The sensation was as if it stretched the passage too much, and it seemed to come out with difficulty. This looks as if there was a contraction of the urethra, as well as of the vessels of the skin, in the cold fit; so that this disposition runs deep. By giving the bougie this bend he was able for the future to pass them with great ease. I may just observe, that by introducing the finger into the anus I found the prostate gland much enlarged. Many patients, while labouring under any of the before-mentioned diseases of the urethra, and sometimes even after they have been cured of them, find great pain in throwing forwards the semen, having a sen- sation as if it scalded. This arises from the very irritable state which the muscles of this part are in, giving great pain by their own action. §. 1. Of the Treatment of the Swelled Prostate Gland. The methods practised in the above cases afforded only temporary