OF THE TEETH. 73 opens the old orifice in the gum, or augments the discharge by the side of the tooth; however, I believe, the inflammation in this last case is not so violent as in the other, where a fresh ulceration is necessary for the passage of the matter. Thus a gum-boil goes on for years, healing and opening alternately; the effect of which is that the alveolar processes are at length absorbed, and the tooth gets looser and looser, till it either drops out or is ex- tracted. Most probably in all such cases the communication between the cavity of the tooth and the jaw is cut off; yet it keeps in part its lateral attachments, especially when the gum grasps the tooth: but in those cases, where the matter passes between the gum and the tooth, these attachments are less; but some of them are still retained, parti- cularly on the side opposite to the passage for the matter. Gum-boils are easily known. Those which open through the gum may be distinguished by a small rising between the arch of the gum and the attachment of the lip : upon pressing the gum at the side of this point, some matter will commonly be observed oozing out at the eminence. This eminence seldom subsides entirely; for even when there is no discharge, and the opening is healed over, a small rising may still be perceived, which shows that the gum-boil has been there. Those gum-boils which discharge themselves between the gum and the tooth are always discovered by pressing the gum, whereby the matter is pressed out, and is seen lying in the angle between the gum and tooth. These abscesses happen much more frequently in the upper jaw than in the lower, and also more frequently to the cuspidati, incisores, and bicuspides in that jaw than to the molares; seldom to the fore teeth in the lower jaw. As gum-boils are in general the consequence of rotten teeth, we find them in young and middle-aged people more frequently than in old ; but they appear to be most common to the shedding teeth. This will arise from those teeth being more liable to become rotten ; and perhaps there may be another reason, viz. the process of ulceration which goes on in these teeth*, in some cases falling into suppuration. It sometimes happens in these gum-boils that a fungus will push out at the orifice, from a luxuriant disposition to form granulations in the inside of the abscess, and the want of power to heal or skin ; the same thing frequently happens in issues, where the parts have a disposition * Vide Natural History of the Teeth, for an explanation of this process in those teeth, pp. 43, 44.