417 OF THE LUES VENEREA. but it is perhaps impossible to know all the symptoms this poison pro- duces when in the constitution. I knew a gentleman who had a teasing cough which he imputed to it; for it came on with the symptomatic fever, and continued with it, and by using mercury both disappeared. There are inflammations of the eyes which are supposed to be vene- real ; for after the usual remedies against inflammation have been tried in vain, mercury has been given, on the supposition of the case being venereal, and sometimes with success, which has tended to establish this opinion. But if such cases are venereal, the disease is very different from what it is when attacking other parts from the constitution, for the inflammation is more painful than in venereal inflammation proceed- ing from the constitution; and I have never seen such cases attended with ulceration, as in the mouth, throat, and tongue, which makes me doubt much of their being venereala. ยง. 2. Experiments made to ascertain the Progress and Effects of the Venereal Poison. To ascertain several facts relative to the venereal disease, the follow- ing experiments were made. They were begun in May 1767. Two punctures were made on the penis with a lancet dipped in vene- real matter from a gonorrhoea; one puncture was on the glans, the other on the prepuce. This was on a Friday; on the Sunday following there was a teasing itching in those parts, which lasted till the Tuesday following. In the mean time, these parts being often examined, there seemed to be a greater redness and moisture than usual, which was imputed to the parts being rubbed. Upon the Tuesday morning the parts of the pre- puce where the puncture had been made were redder, thickened, and had formed a speck ; by the Tuesday following the speck had increased, and discharged some matter, and there seemed to be a little pouting of * [The author has here been misled, either by the general principle which he imagined he had discovered, and which may be shown to be in many instances erroneous, or by the want of opportunity for a more extended observation of diseases of the eye. It is established beyond the possibility of doubt, that iritis is frequently a secondary symptom of the venereal disease. The general symptoms of iritis are well known. The distinc- tive signs of syphilitic iritis have been supposed to be chiefly the deposit of masses of lymph, of a reddish or brownish colour, on the surface of the iris, and the nocturnal exacerbation of pain. However, the accuracy of the diagnosis may be questioned, since it is certain that in venereal cases many instances of iritis occur where these pecu- liar symptoms are wanting, and where the appearance differs in nothing from the idio- pathic forms of the disorder.] VOL. II. 2 E