284 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. CHAPTER IX. OF THE DISEASES OF THE BLADDER, PARTICULARLY FROM THE BEFORE-MENTIONED OBSTRUCTIONS TO THE URINE. All the diseases of the urethra, as also the diseases of the prostate gland, I have now treated of, and shall next consider the effects of them upon the bladder, as also the diseases of that viscus, independent of affections of the urethra. The disease of the bladder arising from obstruction alone is increased irritability and its consequences, by which the bladder admits of little distention, becomes quick in its action, and thick and strong in its coats. But prior to the description of the effects of the diseases of the urethra on the bladder, it will be necessary, for the better understanding of the ■whole, to make some remarks upon those diseases of the two parts, in which we find that each affects the other; and these I shall consider without having any regard to the cause, but only to the general effects, when they are diseased. It may be observed, that every organ in an animal body is made up of different parts, the functions or actions of which are totally different from each other, although all tend to produce one ultimate effect. In most, if not in all, when perfect, there is a suc- cession of motions, one naturally arising out of the other, which in the end produces the ultimate effect; and an irregularity alone in these ac- tions will constitute disease, at least produce very disagreeable effects, and often totally frustrate the final intentions of the organs. I may be allowed also to premise, that the natural width of the ure- thra gives such a resistance to the force or power of the bladder in ex- pelling the urine, as is easily overcome by the natural action of the bladder; but when the canal is lessened, either by stricture, spasm, swelled prostate gland, or any other means, this proportion is lost, by which means the bladder finds greater difficulty than natural, and is of course thrown into an increased action to overcome the resistance, which becomes a cause of the irritability and increased strength of this viscus in such diseases. It is to be understood, that in a sound state of these two parts, the bladder and urethra, the contraction of the one produces a relaxation of the other, and vice versd; so that their natural actions are alternate, and they may be considered as antagonist muscles to one another.