375 OF BUBO. The bubo is to be dressed afterwards according to the nature of the disease, which, I have already observed, is often so complicated as to baffle all our skill. The constitution at the same time is to be attacked with mercury, either by applying it internally or externally : if exter- nally, it should be applied to that side and beyond where the bubo is, as I before directed in treating of the resolution of buboes, for it may have some influence on the disease in its passing through the part. Mercury, in these cases, answers two purposes: it assists the ex- ternal applications to cure the buboes, and it prevents the effects of the constant absorption of the venereal matter from the sore. How far it is necessary to pursue the mercurial course with a view to prevention, it is not possible to determine; but it may be supposed that it is necessary to give the same quantity to prevent a disease that would cure one that has already taken place. It will be necessary to continue the course till the bubo is healed, or till it has for some time / lost its venereal appearance; but it may be difficult to ascertain this last fact; therefore we must have recourse to experience, not theory, and continue the course in general till the whole is healed, and even longer, especially if the bubo heals very readily; for we find in many cases that the constitution shall be still tainted after all. However, some restrictions are here necessary ; for I have already observed that it often happens that buboes assume other dispositions besides the venereal, which mercury cannot cure, but will even make worse. It is there- fore very necessary to ascertain the distinction, which will be taken notice of. CHAPTER Y. OF SOME OF THE CONSEQUENCES OF BUBOES. I formerly observed that the venereal disease is capable of bringing latent dispositions or susceptibilities into action. This is remarkably the case with buboes ; and I believe the disposition is more of the scro- fulous kind than any other. Whether this arises from the buboes being formed in lymphatic glands or not is probably not easily deter- mined. It sometimes happens that these sores, when losing or entirely de-