426 OF THE LUES VENEREA. and allow whatever parts may be contaminated to come into action af- terwards. The parts that first assume the venereal action are easiest of cure; and I have suspected that those effects of the disease being external, were in some degree assisted in their cure by the local action of the medicine, which evidently passes off through those parts. When the disease has attacked the parts second in order of suscepti- bility, it generally happens that they are more difficult of cure than the former; therefore when they are affected at the same time with the former, and are cured, we may be sure that the first will be also cured. From hence, as it would appear that the parts most susceptible of the disease are also easiest of cure, it follows that the parts least susceptible of the disease are also most difficult of cure; and I believe that this is seldom or never reversed ; therefore those second in order of susceptibi- lity have this advantage, that we have the local complaints for our guide to judge of the whole ; and in such we have only to continue the treat- ment till they all vanish, being certain that the cure of the first, if there are any, will be involved in those of the second. As the second are attended with more tumefaction or swelling than the first, it becomes a question whether the mercurial course should be continued till the whole has subsided. But 1 believe it is not necessary to continue the method of cure till the whole tumefaction disappears, for as those local complaints cannot contaminate the constitution by re- absorption, and as the venereal disposition and action from the consti- tution can be cured while the local effects still remain, even where the tumefaction forming nodes on the bones, fasciae, &c. is carried the length of suppuration, there can be no occasion for continuing the course longer than the destruction of the venereal action. But this effect of our me- dicine is not easily known; therefore it will be necessary to pursue the method of cure till the appearances become stationary, and probably a little longer to destroy the whole action of the disease. From these circumstances it would appear that the venereal irritation, when in this stage of the disease, is easier of cure than the effects of that irritation, such as the tumefaction. ยง. 1. Of the Use of Mercury in the Cure of the Lues Venerea. Mercury in the lues venerea, as in the chancre, is the great specific, and hardly anything else is to be depended upon. It is necessary that we should always consider well the effects of this medicine, both on the constitution at large and the disease for which it is given. The effects