SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. 291 formerly practised ; and thirdly, from within the rectum, where the bladder lies in contact with the gut. The first question, which naturally occurs, is, Which of those situa- tions is the most proper for the safety of the patient, the evacuation of the water, and the conveniency of operating, when no particular cir- cumstance forbids either of the situations ? On the first view of the subject, one would be apt to prefer that above the pubes, or from the rectum, as the bladder is nearer to either, and the parts more adapted to an operation than from the perinseum, where we must cut at random. These two situations, although the most proper in this respect, under certain circumstances, yet may be- come the most improper, for they are subject to greater changes than the perinaeum. The reasons that may render it very improper above the pubes are, the persons being very fat, or the bladders not distending sufficiently so as to rise above the pubes, which is common enough in diseases of those parts. In very fat people it will be found that the substance to be cut through may be three or four inches, which will not only make the operation very unpleasant, but often improper; for such thickness of parts will make the swell of the bladder very obscure and uncertain ; in many the bladder is so diseased as to allow of but little distention, and in such the symptoms of fulness come on very early, perhaps when there are only a few ounces of water collected. But if the retention has been for some considerable time, as twenty-four hours, then wre may suppose that the bladder has allowed of distention to a much greater degree, which may in some cases be ascertained by introducing the finger into the rectum. But where the bladder distends, and the parts are so thin that it can be plainly felt above the pubes, I see no material objection to this situ- ation ; and it has this advantage over the operation by the rectum, that a catheter can more easily be introduced, and kept in, which will be necessary to be done till the cause is removed. It may be necessary here to mention some precautions respecting the keeping the instrument in the bladder ; as also the best kind to be used. It must be a hollow tube, and should reach as far as the posterior sur- face of the bladder, for upon the contraction of that viscus its anterior part recedes backwards and downwards from the abdomen towards its fixed point, which may draw the bladder off from the tube. But as the distance between the skin of the abdomen and posterior surface of the bladder cannot be exactly ascertained, the cannula may be either too long, or too short; if too long, its end may press upon the posterior u 2