359 OF BUBO. Vation is just, is not easily accounted for. I have observed that absorp- tion is more common to ulcers than inflamed surfaces, or at least the formation of a bubo in the gland, and its effects in the constitution, are more common from an ulcer; but it may be remarked, that the inside of the prepuce, from whence this chord appears to arise, is in an exco- riated state. It is possible that this effect may arise from the lymphatics sympathizing with the inflammation of the urethra, but I believe the affection is truly venereal; or it is possible that even the absorption of the coagulable lymph, which was produced from the venereal inflam- mation, and which is the cause of the tumefaction, may have the power of contamination, as appears to be the ease in the cancer. The thickening, or the formation of this hard chord, probably arises from the thickening of the coats of the absorbents, joined with the ex- travasation of coagulable lymph, thrown in upon its inner surface, as in inflamed veins. This chord often inflames so much as to suppurate, and sometimes in more places than one, forming one, two or three buboes, or small ab- scesses in the body of the penis. When this is going on we find in some parts of this chord a circumscribed hardness; then suppuration takes place in the centre, the skin begins to inflame, the matter comes nearer to it, and the abscess opens like any other abscess. I have seen a chain of these buboes, or little abscesses, along the upper part of the penis, through its whole length. This may be supposed to be exactly similar to the inflammation and suppuration of a vein after being wounded and exposed. Inflammation of the glands is much more frequent than the former, and arises from the venereal matter being carried on to the lymphatic glands, the structure of which appears to be no more than the ramifica- tions and reunion of the absorbent vessels, by which means they form these bodies. From this structure we may reasonably suppose that the fluid absorbed is in some measure detained in these bodies, and thereby has a greater opportunity of communicating the disease to them than to the distinct vessels, where its course is perhaps more rapid, which may account for the glands being more frequently contaminated. Swellings of these glands are common to other diseases, and should be carefully distinguished from those that arise from the venereal poison. The first inquiry should be into the cause, to see if there is any vene- real complaint at some greater distance from the heart, as chancres on the penis, or any preceding disease on the penis ; to learn if mercurial ointment has been at all applied to the legs and thighs of that side, for mercury applied to those parts, for the cure of a chancre, will sometimes