264 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. hard, for fear of forcing together the sides of the natural passage. Upon erections, the penis was bent to the side that had suffered ; but in time the parts gradually recovered their natural form. §.3. Of Inflammation in the Parts surrounding the Urethra. Inflammation arising from distension and irritation of the urethra often extends considerably further than the surface of that canal, for the surrounding parts become the seat of inflammation, the situation of which will commonly be according to the situation of the stricture, pro- ducing the distension. Thus we find the inflammation affecting the prostate gland, the membranous part of the urethra, the bulb, and pro- bably Cowper’s glands, with other parts of the urethra between the bulb and the glans. But inflammation in the surrounding parts of the ure- thra is not always a consequence of distension or stricture; it arises often from other irritations in this canal, such as violent gonorrhoeas and very irritating injections. When inflammation attacks these parts it is of the true adhesive kind, and therefore when suppuration takes place an abscess must be formed, unless the inflammation be resolved. The matter, according to a general principle in abscesses, points exter- nally ; when the seat of the abscess is either in the prostate gland, membranous part, or in the bulb, the matter will point in the perinseum ; or the abscess may be formed forwards in the scrotum, or before it, ac- cording to the situation of the stricture. The seat of these abscesses is generally so near the inner surface of the urethra that the partition between them often gives way, and they open internally, as frequently happens in an abscess by the side of the rectum, so that the matter is at once discharged by the urethra, or car- ried back into the bladder to be discharged with the urine. When the internal opening only takes place, I believe it is owing to the ulceration on the inner surface of the urethra, as has been already described; and in these cases also the stricture is sometimes involved in the abscess and ulceration, by which means the water will find a free passage for- wards ; but the urine has also a free passage into the abscess, which we may suppose retards its healing, and often becomes the cause of its opening externally; but here, from the adhesive inflammation having taken place, the urine cannot insinuate itself into the surrounding cel- lular membrane, so as to produce the consequences mentioned in treat- ing of the way in which Nature endeavours to relieve herself. In such cases we find that upon pressing the abscess externally the matter is squeezed into the urethra, and so out by the glans. It sometimes hap-