134 INTRODUCTION. §. 3. Of the comparative Powers of different Parts of the Body—-from Situation—from Structure. We shall have occasion to observe, that the parts affected assume the morbid action more readily and continue it more rapidly when near to the source of the circulation than when far from it; for the heart exerts its influence upon the different parts of the body in proportion to their vicinity to it; and the more distant that the parts are, the weaker are their powers. This is perhaps better illustrated by disease than by any actions in health, for in health we have no comparative trials, as no two parts of the machine, at unequal distances from the heart, can be thrown into equal action, and therefore no conclusions can be drawn. It may be observed that all the vital parts are near the heart. In diseases we see mortification arising from debility, in the extre- mities oftener than in other parts, more especially if the person is tall; the heart not propelling the blood to these distant parts with equal force. In such a state of constitution, those who labour under a he- miplegia are often found to die at last from a mortification in the ex- tremities of the paralytic side. In some of these cases the arteries give way, and allow of an extravasation of the blood, and therefore we may reasonably suppose that they are proportionally weak in health. We also find that such extravasation commonly begins in the extremities. This principle is not only evident in these two diseases, but also in every disease that can affect an animal body. It appears in the readiness with which diseases come on and proceed in parts distant from the source of the circulation, and also in the steps towards a cure. Parts differ not only in their powers, in proportion as they are nearer or further from the heart, but likewise according to their peculiar struc- ture, whereby they vary as much in the progress of morbid actions as in the operations of health. An animal body is composed of a variety of substances, as muscle, tendon, cellular membrane, ligament, bone, nerve, &c. We have there- fore an opportunity of observing the comparative progress of diseases in them, and their comparative powers of performing a cure; and w’e find that they differ very much from one another in those respects. How far these differences take place in all diseases, I have not been able to determine ; but should suppose, that in specific diseases, as scrofula and cancer, there is in general no difference in the mode of action in any of