159 OF GONORRHOEA. This appearance being new to Dr. Hunter, he sent to Mr. Samuel Sharp, desiring his attendance ; and to him it also appeared new. Mr. Sharp afterwards, in the year 1750, published his Critical Enquiry, in which he introduced this fact, “ That matter may be formed without a breach of substancenot mentioning whence he had derived this no- tion. It was ever after taught by Dr. Hunter in his lectures. We, however, find writers adopting it without quoting either Mr. Sharp or Dr. Hunter. So much being known, I was anxious to examine whether the matter in a gonorrhoea was formed in the same way. In the spring of 1753 there was an execution of eight men, two of whom I knew had at that time very severe gonorrhoeas. Their bodies being procured for this particular purpose, we were very accurate in our examination, but found no ulceration. The two urethras appeared merely a little blood- shot, especially near the glans. This being another new fact ascer- tained, it could not escape Mr. Gataker, ever attentive to his emolu- ment, who was then attending Dr. Hunter’s lectures, and also practis- ing dissection under me. He published soon after, in 1754, a treatise on this disease, and explained fully that the matter in a gonorrhoea did not arise from an ulcer, without mentioning how he acquired this know- ledge ; and from that time successive writers have repeated the same doctrine. Since the period mentioned above I have constantly paid particular attention to this circumstance, and have opened the urethra of many who at the time of their death had a gonorrhoea, yet have never found a sore in any; but always observed that the urethra, near the glans, was more bloodshot than usual, and that the lacunae were often filled with matter. I have indeed seen an instance of a sore a little within the urethra; but this sore was not produced by any ulceration of the surface, but from an inflammation taking place, probably in one of the glands, which produced an abscess in the part, and that abscess opened its way into the urethra. The very same sore opened a way through externally at the frsenum, so that there was a new passage for the urine. Indeed, the method of curing a gonorrhoea might have shown that it could not depend upon a venereal ulcer, for there is hardly an instance of a venereal ulcer being cured by anything but mercury, es- charotics excepted. We know, however, that most gonorrhoeas are curable without mercury, and, what is still more, without any medical assistance; which, I believe, is never the case with a chancre. This doctrine that a gonorrhoea does not depend on ulcers, was first taught publicly by Dr. Hunter, at his lectures, in the year 1750 ; but he did not attempt to account for it.