OF THE VENEREAL POISON. 152 tible of many irritations of which the human body is susceptible, as we find to be the case in all other specific diseases, and most poisons, than that the matter of-the human body is susceptible of a change, of which that of the dog or ass is not. This argument is still further supported by comparing the venereal poison with other morbid poisons. The animal poison productive of the hydrophobia seems to be produced by a particular irritation affecting certain parts, which shows that if the body, or any part of the body, is ir- ritated, it takes a disposition to act in a peculiar manner, and that this mode of action is capable of secreting such juices as will throw another animal into the same action. In the hydrophobia the throat and its glands are particularly affected ; and how the saliva should become of such a nature from the same kind of matter being either carried into the constitution, or perhaps only by the general sympathy of the con- stitution with a local infection, and more particularly with the parts about the throat, is not easily to be accounted for, without a supposi- tion either that the absorbed poison circulating can produce a specific constitutional action capable of affecting the throat and glands there, just as the poison of the smallpox affects the skin, or that the circulat- ing poison has power to affect or irritate the glands of the mouth only, or that those parts only are capable of immediately sympathising with the part irritated, as the muscles of the lower jaw are when they pro- duce the locked jaw. If this theory be just, it explains why epidemical diseases, arising from particular seasons, particular constitutions of air, &c., irritate in v such a manner as to produce a fever, the effluvia of which shall irritate in the same manner : for it is not in the least material how the original irritation arises; it is only necessary that there should exist in the ani- mal a power of acting according to the stimulus given by that irritation. CHAPTER II. THE MODE OF VENEREAL INFECTION. Every infectious disease has its peculiar manner of being caught; and among mankind there is generally something peculiar in the way of life, trocluced it into the vagina of asses without any effect. 1 have introduced it under the prepuce of dogs without any effect. I have also made incisions and introduced it under the skin, and it has only produced a common sore. I have made the same experiments upon asses, with the same result.