SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 239 pass there is no immediate danger arising from the stricture, which may therefore be dilated, as has been already described. But if this method should be preferred to a slow dilatation, which allows the parts time to adapt themselves to their new position, the stricture may be destroyed by producing ulceration in the parts, especially if they are not irritable, but admit of considerable violence. When this is intended, the bougie should be introduced as far into the stricture as possible, and the size of it increased as fast as the sen- sations of the patient can well bear. This will produce ulceration in the part pressed, which is a more lasting cure, because more of the stricture is destroyed than when the parts are simply dilated. I believe, however, there are few patients that will submit to this practice, and indeed few will be able to bear it; for I have seen it bring on violent spasms in the part, which have produced suppression of urine, and proved very troublesome. Therefore as there is no absolute necessity in such cases for pursuing this method, I do not recommend it as a general practice, although there have been cases in which it has suc- ceeded. Where this method is to be practised, it might probably be right to accustom the passage to a bougie for some time before such violence is used. If the smallest bougie which can possibly be made cannot be made to pass by some degree of force, dilatation becomes impracticable, and it is necessary that something else should be done for the relief of the patient; for the destruction of the stricture must be effected. In many cases it may be proper to attempt this by ulceration of the part; for we find from experience that a stricture may be removed by the simple pressure of a bougie. This effect must arise from the irritation of ab- sorption being given to the diseased part, which, from the stricture not being an originally-formed part, nor having any power of resistance equal to the original one, is more susceptible of ulceration, and thereby is absorbed. The bougies, which are only to produce ulceration in con- sequence of their being applied to the stricture, need not be so small as in the former cases, as they are not intended to pass; and by being of a common size they will also be more certain in their application to the stricture. The force applied to a bougie in this case should not be great: for a stricture is the hardest part of the urethra ; and if a bougie is applied with a considerable degree of pressure, and left in the pas- sage, it sometimes happens that the end of it slips off the stricture be- fore there is time for ulceration, and makes its way into the substance of the corpus spongiosum by the side of the stricture; and if the pres- sure be continued still longer, it will make a new passage beyond the