OF TIIE HUMAN TEETH. 49 we find that they grow at once to their full length, and that they gra- dually wear down afterwards, and that there is not even the appearance of their continuing to grow. The teeth would probably project a little further out of the gum if they were not opposed by those in the oppo- site jaw; for in young people who had lost a tooth before the rest had come to their full length, I have seen the opposite tooth project a little beyond the rest before they were at all worn down. It may be further observed, that when a tooth is lost, the opposite one may project from the disposition of the alveolar process to rise higher, and fill up at the bottom of the sockets; and the want of that natural pressure seems to give that disposition to these processes, which is best illustrated in those teeth which are formed deeper in their sockets than usual. As a proof that the teeth continue growing, it has been said that the space of a fallen tooth is almost filled up by the increased thickness of the two adjacent teeth, and the lengthening of that which is opposite. There is an evident fallacy in the case ; either the observations have been made upon such jaws as above described, or the appearances have not been examined with sufficient accuracy; for when the space appears to have become narrow by the approximation of the two adjacent teeth, it is not owing to any increase of their breadth, but to their moving from that side where they are well supported to the other side, where they are not. For this reason they get an inclined direction; and I observe it extends to the several adjacent teeth in a proportionally less degree, and affects those which are behind more than those which are before the vacant space. In the lower jaw the back teeth are not fixed perpendicularly, but all inclined forward, and the depression of the jaw increases this position; the action of the teeth, when thrown out of the perpendicular, has also a tendency to increase that oblique direction, as a pair of scissors, in cutting, pushes everything forward, or from the centre of motion ; therefore this alteration, I think, is most commonly observable in the lower jaw. And that teeth are not actually always growing in breadth, must be obvious to every person who considers, that in many people, through life, the teeth stand so wide from each other that there are considerable spaces between them, which could not be the case if they were always growing in thickness. We might add, too, that according to the hypothesis the dens sapi- entiae should grow to an enormous size backward, because there it has no check from pressure; and in people where the dens sapientiac is wanting in one jaw, which is very common, it should grow to an un- common length in the opposite jaw, for the same reason. But neither of these things happens. VOL. II. E