296 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. In other cases, in consequence of abscesses forming between the blad- der and rectum, where they have not healed up, there has been a reci- procal passing of the contents of these cavities from the one to the other. It only remains to speak of the puncture in the perinseum. An ob- struction to the urine taking place in the natural passage prevents us from introducing an instrument in most of those cases, and deprives us of all the advantages we could receive from it as a guide in the opera- tion ; yet there may be cases of stricture where, by cutting into the urethra beyond the stricture, the water will flow ; but this must be done without any guide or direction, and requires a nice and accurate know- ledge of the parts. Or if the obstruction arises from the valvular pro- jection of the prostate gland, a staff may be passed as far as this pro- jection, and cut upon as for the stone, the surgeon only making a similar incision, using a small gorget, or, in the room of that, a trochar of a particular form might be run along it into the bladder ; for although the staff does not enter the bladder, yet the distance to pass through without this guide is but small. If this cannot be done, a small and deep incision may be made in the perinaeum, with an imposthume lancet towards the bladder; the point of the trochar is to be introduced by this, the surgeon passing at the same time the forefinger of the other hand into the anus, which will be a guide both for the direction of the instrument, as also to avoid its point passing into the rectum. With these precautions the error cannot be great. I must own, however, that I have not seen cases enough to enable me to give all the varieties that commonly happen, and of course to give all the advantages and disadvantages of each method3. usual symptoms of that disease he had a communication between the bladder and rec- tum, which had continued four months. When he endeavoured to make wrater, the water flowed both from the urethra and anus, coming from the anus in a small stream, often to the quantity of a pint. It also flowed freely from the anus when he went to stool, although none was voided by the urethra. In the beginning of the complaint some portions of dead flesh, he said, had come away from the rectum, but when ad- mitted into the hospital there was not any soreness remaining, or discharge of matter from it, and the urine passed without pain: externally he never had any fistula pe- entrating either into the bladder or rectum, and when disturbed with flatulence in the bowels, did not perceive any wind to escape from the urethra.”—Home. a [In cases of retention of urine from stricture, it is always more safe to open the urethra than to puncture the bladder. The bladder is imbedded in loose cellular mem- brane, which envelopes it everywhere, and which must be wounded if the bladder is punctured, whatever part be chosen for that operation. Now such a wound cannot be made without great danger, because the urine is thus admitted into this loose cellular texture, and frequently diffuses itself through it, producing extensive sloughing and abscess. This is by no means a rare consequence of puncture of the bladder, and when jt occurs, is very generally fatal. The opening of the urethra is not attended with the