394 OF THE LUES VENEREA. meeting in the same person, do not interfere with each other, either in their symptoms or cure. To explain these effects more fully, let me observe, that if a man has a gonorrhoea, and a chancre appears some days after, the chancre does not either increase or diminish the gonorrhoea. Again, if a man has either a gonorrhoea, a chancre, or both, and a lues venerea ensue in con- sequence of either of these, neither the gonorrhoea nor chancre is affected by it. If a man has a lues venerea and gets either a gonorrhoea or chancre, or both, neither of them affects the lues venerea, nor are their symptoms the worse. Nor is the cure of either, singly, retarded by the presence of the other ; for a gonorrhoea is as easily cured when there are chancres as when there are none, even although the chancres are not attempted to be cured; and a chancre may be cured locally independent of the gonorrhoea. Further, a gonorrhoea, chancre, or both, may be as easily cured when the constitution is poxed either by them, or previous to their appearance, as when the person is in perfect health; but the chancre has this advantage, that the constitution cannot be cured without its being likewise cured. The gonorrhoea and chancre indeed so far influence one another as the one can be in some degree a cause of prevention of the other, as has been already observed; but I believe that this circumstance does not assist in the cure of either : yet I could conceive it might, each acting as a derivator to the other, without increasing its own specific mode of action. §.5. Of the supposed Termination of the Lues Venerea in other Diseases. This disease seldom or never interferes with other disorders, or runs into, or terminates in any other, although it has been very much accused of doing so ; for a termination of one disease in another, as I under- stand the expression, must always be a cure of the one terminated ; but the venereal disease never terminates till the proper remedy is applied, and therefore never can run into any other disease. That venereal complaints may be the cause of others I think is very probable. I have seen a chancre the immediate cause of an erysipela- tous inflammation, but the venereal malady did not terminate in the erysipelatous inflammation; for if it had, the chancre would have been cured : nor was the erysipelatous inflammation venereal; the chancre only acted here as a common irritator, independently of the specific quality of the disease as a cause. I have known «a venereal bubo be- come a scrofulous sore as soon as the venereal poison was destroyed by