OF GONORRHCEA. 223 they act nearly in the same manner, and have the same effect. What their mode of action is it is difficult to say. When either of these methods has been used, and has had the de- sired effect, it should be continued for a considerable time after the symptoms have disappeared; and the time must be in proportion to the duration of the complaint, or the frequency of its returns. If it has been of long standing, we may be sure that the disposition to such a complaint is strong; and if it has returned frequently, upon the least increase of circulation, we may expect the same thing to happen again. Therefore, to correct the bad habit, it is necessary to continue the me- dicines a considerable time. Irritating applications are either injections or bougies, simple, or me- dicated with irritating medicines. Violent exercise may be considered as having the same effect. Such applications should never be used till the other methods have been fully tried and found unsuccessful. They differ from the foregoing by producing at first a greater discharge than that which they are intended to cure; and the increased discharge may or may not continue as long as the application is used. It becomes, therefore, necessary to inquire how long they are to be used to produce a cure of the gleet. That time will generally be in proportion to the violence used, and the nature of the parts which form the matter, and according to the disposition being strong or weak, joined to its duration, and the greater or less irritability of the parts. If the parts are either weak or irritable, or both, an irritating injection should not be used ; if strong, and not irritable, it may be used with safety. In this last case, if it is an injection that stimulates very considerably, perhaps it maybe sufficient to use it twice or thrice a day. I knew a gentleman who threw into the urethra, for a gleet of two years’ standing, Goulard’s extract of lead, undiluted, which produced a most violent inflammation ; but when the inflammation went off, the gleet was cured. Two grains of corrosive sublimate to eight ounces of water are a very good irri- tating injection. If it is a gleet of long standing, it may require a week or more to re- move it, even with an irritating injection; and if the injection is less irritating, so as to give but little pain, and to increase the discharge in a small degree, it may require a fortnight. But one precaution is very necessary respecting the use of irritating injections ; it should be first known, if possible, that they will do no harm. To know this may be difficult in many cases; but the nature of the parts is to be ascertained as nearly as possible ; that is, whether they had ever been hurt before by such treatment; whether they are so susceptible of irritation as that