OF BUBO. 360 tumefy the glands, which has been supposed to be venereal. We should further observe, if there be no preceding disease in the constitution, such as a cold, fever, &c., the progress of the swelling with regard to quickness is also to be attended to, as also to distinguish it from a rup- ture, lumbar abscess, or aneurism of the crural artery. Perhaps these bodies are more irritable, or more susceptible of stimuli than the vessels. They are certainly more susceptible of sympathy; however, we are not yet sufficiently acquainted with the use of these glands to be able to account satisfactorily for this difference. It would appear in some cases that it is some time after the absorption of the venereal matter before it produces its effects upon the glands ; in some it has been six days at least. This could only be known by the chancres being healed six days before the bubo began to appear; and in such cases it is more than probable that the matter had been absorbed a much longer time before, for the last matter of a chancre most pro- bably is not venereal; and indeed it is natural to suppose that the poison may be as long before it produces an action on the parts, when applied in this way, as it is either in the urethra or in forming a chancre, which I have shown to be sometimes six or seven weeks. The glands nearest to the seat of absorption are in general the only ones that are attacked, as those in the groin, when the matter has been taken up from the penis in men: in the groin, between the labia and thigh, and the round ligaments, when absorbed from the vulva, in women. I think there is commonly but one gland at a time that is af- fected by the absorption of venereal matter, which, if so, becomes in some sort a distinguishing mark between venereal buboes and other dis- eases of these bodies. We never find the lymphatic vessels or glands, that are second in order, affected, as those along the iliac vessels or back; and I have also seen when the disease has been contracted by a sore, or cut upon the finger, the bubo come on a little above the bend of the arm, upon the inside of the biceps muscle; and in such where the bubo has come in that part, none has formed in the armpit, which is the most common place for the glands to be affected by absorption. But this is not universal, although common, for I was informed by a gentleman who contracted the disease in the before-mentioned way, that he had buboes both on the inside of the biceps muscle and in the armpit. Another case of this kind I have heard of since; why it is not more common is perhaps not easily explained. It might be supposed that the matter was weakened, or much diluted by the absorptions from other parts by the time it gets through these nearest ramifications, and therefore has not power to contaminate those which are beyond them; but it is most probable that there are other