OF THE LUES VENEREA. 420 It also shows that the poison having originally only contaminated certain parts, when not completely cured, can break out again only in those parts'1. §.3. Of the Symptoms of the Second Stage of the Lues Venerea. This stage of the disease is not so well marked as the former; and, as it is of more importance, it requires all our discernment to determine what the disease is. The parts less susceptible of this irritation are such as are more out of the way of the great exciting cause, which is the external air, as has been before related. And they begin to take on the venereal action whether it may or it may not have produced its local effects upon the external or exposed surfaces; and they even go on with the action, in many cases, after these surfaces first affected have taken on the action and have been cured, as has been already observed. These deeper- seated parts are the periosteum, tendons, fasciae, and ligaments; how- ever, what the parts affected may be when the disease is in this stage is not always certain: I have known it produce total deafness, and some of those cases to end in suppuration, attended with great pain in the ear and side of the head. Such cases are generally supposed to arise from some other cause ; and nothing but some particular circum- stance in the history of the case, or some symptom attending it, can lead the surgeon to the nature of the complaint. When these deeper-seated parts become irritated by this poison the progress is more gradual than in the first: they have very much the character of scrofulous swellings or chronic rheumatism, only in this disease the joints are not so subject to it as they are in the rheumatism. We shall find a swelling come upon a bone when there has been no possible means of catching the infection for many months, and it will be of some size before it is taken notice of, from having given but little pain. On the other hand, there shall be great pain, and probably no swelling to be observed till some time after. The same observations are applicable to the swelling of tendons, and fascise. As these swellings increase by slow degrees, they show but little signs of inflammation. When they attack the periosteum the swelling » TSee the note at p. 146. If the experiment had been made by one less practised and less accurate than John Hunter, the history of the case would lead to the suspicion that the venereal virus had been conveyed to the punctures by means of the caustic with which they were repeatedly touched. Certainly the course which they held was very different from that which is usually observed in common chancre.]