OP THE HUMAN TEETH. 31 reverse, except for this circumstance, that the lower jaw must be longer, and therefore its action weaker. The other motion of the lower jaw, viz. when the lateral teeth are used, is somewhat different from the former. In opening the mouth one condyle slides a little forwards, and the other slides a little further back into its cavity ; this throws the jaw a little to that side, just enough to bring the lower teeth directly under their corresponding teeth in the upper jaw : this is done either in dividing or holding of substances, and these are the teeth that are generally used in the last-mentioned ac- tion. When the true grinding motion is to be performed, a greater degree of this last motion takes place; that is, the condyle of the oppo- site side is brought further forwards, and the condyle of the same side is drawn further back into the cavity of the temporal bone, and the jaw is a little depressed. This is only preparatory for the effect to be produced, for the moving back of the first-mentioned condyle into the socket is what produces the effect in mastication. The lateral teeth in both jaws are adapted to this oblique motion. In the lower they are turned a little inwards, that they may act more in the direction of their axis; and here the alveolar process is strongest upon the outside, being there supported by the ridge at the root of the coronoid process. In the upper jaw the obliquity of the teeth is the reverse, that is, they are turned outwards, for the same reason; and the longest fang of the grinders is upon the inside, where the socket is strengthened by the bony partition between the antrum and nose. Hence it is that the teeth of the lower jaw have their outer edges worn down first, and vice versd in the upper jaw. General Comparisons between the Motion of the Jaw in young and in old People. In children who have not yet teeth there does not seem to be a sliding motion in the lower jaw. The articular eminence of the tem- poral bone is not yet formed, and the cavity is not larger than the condyle ; therefore the centre of motion in such must be in the condyle. In old people who have lost their teeth the centre of motion appears to be in the condyles, and the motion of their jaw to be only depression and elevation. They never depress the jaw sufficiently to bring the condyle forwards on the eminence, because in them the mouth is suffi- ciently opened when the jaw is in its natural position. Hence it is that in old people the gums of the two jaws do not meet