439 OF THE LUES VENEREA. If the symptoms are mild in the first order of parts, and the patient not accustomed to mercury, or it is known that he cannot bear the me- dicine in great quantity, and it is intended to conduct the cure by al- most insensible means, it is proper to begin with small quantities. One scruple, or half a drachm, of an ointment made of equal parts of quick- silver and hog’s lard, rubbed in every night for four or six. nights, will be sufficient to begin with. If the mouth is not affected the quantity may be gradually increased, till two or three drachms are rubbed in at each time ; but if the first quantity has affected the mouth, we may be almost certain that the glands of the mouth are very susceptible of the mercurial stimulus ; therefore it will be proper to wait two or three days till that effect begins to go off. When we begin the second time, the quantity may be gradually in- creased, at least a scruple every time, till two drachms or more are rubbed in each night, which may be done without affecting the patient very considerably a second time, as has been already observed. If all the symptoms gradually disappear, there is no more to be done but to continue this practice for a fortnight longer by way of security. This method, steadily pursued, will cure most recent cases of lues venerea, but it is not sufficient if the disease has been merely kept under by slight courses of mercury; a greater quantity becomes necessary, from a kind of habit the constitution has acquired, by which it is ren- dered less susceptible of the mercurial stimulus. If the disease should return in the second order of parts, we may be certain the same quantity of mercury will not be sufficient to cure them, their action being slow under the venereal irritation, therefore requiring more than what had been first given. I may be allowed to remark, that where the venereal symptoms have been ulcers in the mouth or throat, I have suspected that the mercury being brought to the mouth, and the saliva being impregnated with it, and acting as a mercurial gargle, cured those parts locally, and that the constitution has remained still tainted, the mercurial action in it having- O been much inferior to what it was in the mouth. Perhaps something similar may take place in eruptions of the skin where the mercury passes off by sweat: for we know that sulphur will cure the itch by passing off in perspiration. If these are facts, then it may in some degree ac- count for the local symptoms in the first order of parts being easier of cure than those in the second*. * Added: “ After venereal blotches on the skin have been removed by mercury they sometimes recur afterwards, which has led many to have recourse to mercury again; but the proper practice is to desist some time, to see what becomes of them, as they often disappear again spontaneously ; but as in some they may be a recurrence of the disease, in such mercury must be given.”—Home.