OF TIIE LUES VENEREA. 409 armpits, the eruptions never acquire the above-described appearances, and instead of scurfs and scabs we have the skin elevated, or, as it were, tumefied by the extravasated lymph into a white, soft, moist, flat surface, which discharges a white matter. This may perhaps arise from there being more warmth, more perspiration, and less evaporation, as well as from the skin being thinner in such places. What strengthens this idea still more is, that in many venereal patients I have seen an approach towards such appearances on the common skin of the body; but this has been on such parts as were covered with the clothes, for on those parts of the skin that were not covered there was only the flat scurf; these, however, were redder than the above-described appearances, but hardly so high. How far this is peculiar to the venereal disease I know not. It may take place in most scurfy eruptions of the skin. From a supposition of this not being venereal, I have destroyed them at the side of the anus with a caustic, and the patient has got well; however, from my idea of the disease, that every effect from the constitution is truly local, and therefore may be cured locally, a cure effected by this treatment does not determine the question. This disease, on its first appearance, often attacks that part of the fingers upon which the nail is formed, making that surface red which is seen shining through the nail, and, if allowed to continue, a separa- tion of the nail takes place, similar to the cuticle in the before-described symptoms; but here there cannot be that regular succession of nails as there is of cuticle. It also attacks the superficies of the body which is covered with hair, producing a separation of the hair. A prevention of the growth of young hair is also the consequence while the disease lastsa. a [The variety of venereal eruptions is so great as almost to baffle description. Hence pathologists have usually contented themselves with fixing on some one characteristic which was generally applicable, and have neglected any attempt at distinct classifica- tion, or more accurate and detailed delineation. Thus the copper colour has been as- signed by some, and the circular form by others, as the distinguishing character. Yet these general tests tend only to mislead, since the first is wanting in many species of venereal eruption, and the second is shared also by the great majority of eruptions which are not venereal. It must be confessed that in the present state of our knowledge it would be impossible to produce a complete history of every form of venereal eruption. There are many sorts which are so indistinct and uncertain in their character that it would be difficult to find their proper place in any arrangement, and equally difficult to point out any constant and invariable signs by which they may be always identified. Yet the species of eruption which are of most frequent occurrence, and which are in practice of the greatest importance, are sufficiently distinct to admit of classification; and it is obvious that a clear history of the aspect and course of these more common forms of eruption