SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 299 ยง.2. Of the increased Strength of the Bladder. The bladder, in such cases as have been described, having more to do than common, is almost in a constant state of irritation and action; by which, according to a property in all muscles, it becomes stronger and stronger in its muscular coats ; and I suspect that this disposition to become stronger from repeated action, is greater in the involuntary muscles than the voluntary; and the reason why it should be so is, I think, very evident: for in the involuntary muscles the power should be in all cases capable of overcoming the resistance, as the power is always performing some natural and necessary action; for whenever a disease produces an uncommon resistance in the involuntary parts, if the power is not proportionally increased, the disease becomes very for- midable ; whereas in the voluntary muscles there is not that necessity, because the will can stop whenever the muscles cannot follow; and if the will is so diseased as not to stop, the power in voluntary muscles should not increase in proportion. I have seen the muscular coats of the bladder near half an inch thick, and the fasciculi so strong as to form ridges on the inside of that cavity* ; and I have also seen the fasciculi very thin, and even wanting in some parts of the bladder, so that a hernia of the internal coat had taken place between the fasciculi and formed pouches f. These pouches arise from the thin parts not being able to support the actions of the strong ; as happens in ruptures at the navel or rings of the ab- domen. ยง.3. Of the Distention of the Ureters. It sometimes happens that the irritation from the distention of the bladder, and the difficulty in throwing out its contents, is so great that the urine is prevented from flowing freely into that viscus from the ureters, which become thereby preternaturally distended. The pelvis of the kidneys and infundibula are also enlarged ; but how far this di- * This appearance was long supposed to have arisen from a disease of that viscus; but upon examination I found that the muscular parts were sound and distinct, that they were only increased in bulk in proportion to the power they had to exert, and that it was not a consequence of inflammation, for in that case parts are blended into one indistinct mass. f This is perhaps the cause of the stone being often found in a pouch formed in the bladder: for the bladder in cases of stone is often very strong, which arises from the violent contraction of that viscus, caused by the irritation of the stone on the sides of it; and also from the stone being often opposed to the mouth of the urethra in the time of making water. *