SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 297 ยง.l. Of allowing a Catheter to remain in the Urethra and Bladder. In cases of debility of the bladder, and where a catheter passes with difficulty, or with great uncertainty,-and in cases where it must be used frequently, and for a length of time, it will be necessary to keep an in- strument in the urethra and bladder, so as to allow the water to pass through it freely. A common catheter, or one made of the elastic gum. same risk, because the cellular membrane of the perinaeum is generally loaded with fat, and the escape of the urine is in all cases direct and easy; and even if abscess should take place, it will be near the surface, and can be laid open with the greatest facility. Under ordinary circumstances the urethra is collapsed, and is not easily found, un- less some instrument is previously introduced as a guide: but in cases of retention of urine from stricture, it is always greatly dilated between the contracted part and the bladder, and there is not the same difficulty. As there is variety in the seat of stric- ture, there will be some variety also in the operation which is required. When the obstruction is situated before the bulb, the distension of the urethra behind it may be distinctly felt in the perinaeum, especially when the patient is straining to pass water. Under such circumstances nothing is easier than to open the dilated part of the passage with a common lancet. Rut the stricture is much more frequently seated at the part where the membranous portion of the canal enters the bulb. In this case the difficulty is greater. Nevertheless, the dilated part of the urethra may generally be felt through the rectum, and more or less distinctly in the perinaeum ; and if a previous incision be made, as in lithotomy, through the superficial parts, it may be reached, and laid open. The operator may derive some assistance from the introduction of a sound into the urethra, as far as the stricture, which will point out the direction of the canal; but his principal guide must be the po- sition of the pubes, since in this case the part which is to be punctured will lie imme- diately below the symphysis. When the contraction is still further back, so as to be near the apex of the prostate gland, it may be impossible to feel any dilatation ; and in this case the operation must be varied. A staff should be first introduced into the urethra, and passed down to the stricture. The groove of the staff should then be laid open for a small extent near its point, and this will enable the operator to introduce a probe, which may be passed on to the stricture, and without much trouble, made to penetrate it. When that has been effected, it will not be difficult to pass a catheter through the stricture into the bladder, and to draw off the water. These operations are not applicable to cases where the obstruction arises from an en- larged prostate gland. In this case the mouth of the urethra is closed, and no urine is admitted into it: yet even here the operation of puncturing the bladder is more hazardous than the perforation of the enlarged prostate. A silver catheter may be forced forward through the prostate, and carried into the cavity of the bladder; and this has been done on several occasions, without being followed by serious consequences, or even by ma- terial inconvenience. The opening thus made has sometimes been permanent; at other times it has appeared to close, and the urine has been passed in the same manner as before the operation, and with equal facility.]