272 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. nseum and scrotum. The smallest bougie could not be made to pass into the bladder after repeated trials. The caustic was then applied, but without success. The operation for the fistula in perinseo was performed September 19. A catheter was first introduced as far as it wrould go, as a director, and all the sinuses were laid open to that catheter, which exposed near an inch in length of that instrument; then the catheter was in part with- drawn to expose that part of the urethra which was laid bare. The blood being sponged off, the orifice in the stricture was next searched for, and when found it was dilated. The catheter was now pushed on to the bladder, although with some difficulty, and the end of it was then fastened to a roller which went round the thighs; and the wound was distended with lint. He took an anodyne draught after the operation, and another at night. September 20, he had some pain in the head from the opiates ; his pulse was natural, and he had slept tolerably well. On the 21st day the catheter slipped out, and the second introduction of it gave considerable pain. The anodyne was repeated. October 1. The catheter was still to be felt by introducing a probe into the wound. From this time to the 25th nothing material happened, excepting a piece of lint of the first dressing coming away through the urethra. Novem- ber 20. The wound having for some time been stationary, and show- ing no disposition to heal, I conceived that the catheter was now acting as an extraneous body at the bottom of the wound, and therefore de- sired that it might be withdrawn, and passed occasionally; and no sooner was the wound free from it but it put on a healthy look, and by the 10th of December no urine came through the wound, but passed tolerably well through the urethra; and on the 12th the wound was quite healed, and his water came from him rather in a full stream and without pain, although we could never pass either catheter or bougie afterwards, probably from the new and old passages being irregularil. a [It is possible that some cases may occur where the operation which is described by the author may be required, but such cases are undoubtedly very rare. The complete removal of the stricture is in almost all instances followed by the spontaneous closure of the sinuses in the perinaeum. Until the strictured portion is dilated to the same size with the rest of the urethra, there is little improvement. As soon as that is effected, the urine is no longer diverted into the sinus, but takes the more ready course of the natural passage; and the cause which maintained the fistula being thus removed, the opening gradually contracts, and in a short time heals, without any surgical treatment whatever.]