OF GONORRHCEA. 218 the inclination came on he could not retain it a moment; a straining, and pain in the bladder after voiding it; a constant pain in the region of the bladder; a shooting pain in the urethra, which extended often to the anus; strange sensations in the perinaeum ; a sense of weariness in the testicles; and if he at any time pressed his thighs close together the pain or sensation in the perinaeum was excited. It was supposed at Lisbon that he had the stone, and he came over to London for a cure of that disease. He was examined, but no stone was found. He was ordered to wash the external parts every morning with cold water, which he did for a fortnight, but found no benefit. I was consulted, and in- formed of all the above-mentioned circumstances. As a staff had been passed, there could be no stricture; however, I thought it was possible there might be a diseased prostate gland, and therefore examined him by the anus, but found that gland of its natural size and firmness. As there was no visible alteration of structure anywhere to be found, I looked upon the disease as only a wrong action of the parts, and there- fore ordered a blister to be applied to the perinaeum, which being kept open only a few days all the symptoms were entirely removed. He retained his water as usual; all the disagreeable sensations went off; and the blistered part was allowed to heal. About a fortnight after, he got a fresh venereal gonorrhoea, which alarmed him very much, as he was afraid it might bring back all his former symptoms, which however did not return, and he was soon cured of the gonorrhoea. He staid in London some time after, without any relapse. Another case was that of a gentleman’s servant in the country. He had, from a venereal cause, a disagreeable sensation whenever he made water, also a running, and some degree of chordee; which symptoms he had laboured under for a considerable time. He had gone through a course of mercury, which lasted two months, on a supposition that the venereal virus had not been destroyed; but without benefit. He had after that been bled, used powders of gum arabic and tragacanth, and taken calomel in small doses, with no better success. He then had recourse to injections and bougies of all kinds, but with no bet- ter success. On the ground of the symptoms not being venereal, but only wrong actions of the parts, a blister was applied upon the perinaeum, repeated and kept open six days, upon which the sym- ptoms totally disappeared, and had not recurred a twelvemonth after- wards. This practice is not only of service where there has been a preceding gonorrhoea, but I have found it remove, almost immediately, suppressions of urine from other causes, when the turpentines and opium, both by the mouth and anus, had proved ineffectual, and when the catheter had