OF THE DISEASES 70 ยง. 2. The Decay of the Teeth by Denudation. There is another decay of the teeth, much less common than that already described, which has a very singular appearance. It is a wasting of the substance of the tooth very different from the former. In all the instances I have seen, it has begun on the exterior surface of the tooth, pretty close to the arch of the gum. The first appearance is a want of enamel, whereby the bony j3art is left exposed, but neither the enamel nor the bony part alters in consistence as in the above- described decay. As this decay spreads, more and more of the bone becomes exposed, in which respect also it differs from the former decay ; and hence it may be called a denuding process. The bony substance of the teeth also gives way, and the whole wasted surface has exactly the appearance as if the tooth had been filed with a rounded file, and afterwards had been finely polished. At these places the bony parts, being exposed, become brown. I have seen instances where it appeared as if the outer surface of the bony part, which is in contact with the inner surface of the enamel, had first been lost, so that the attraction of cohesion between the two had been destroyed, and as if the enamel had been separated for want of support, for it terminated all at once. In one case, the two first incisors had lost the whole of the enamel; on their anterior surfaces they were hollowed from side to side, as if a round file had been applied to them longitudinally, and had the finest polish imaginable. The three grinders on each side appeared as if a round file had been used on them in a contrary direction to that on the incisors, viz. across their bodies close to the gum, so that there was a groove running across their bodies, which was smooth in the highest degree. Some of the other teeth in the same jaw had begun to decay in a similar manner; also the teeth in the lower jaw were become diseased. I saw a case very lately where the four incisors of the upper jaw had lost their enamel entirely on their anterior surfaces, and there was scarcely a tooth in the mouth which had not the appearance of having had a file applied across it close to the gum. Those whom I have known have not been able to attribute this disease to any cause ; none of them had ever done anything particular to the teeth, nor was there in appearance anything particular in the constitution which could give rise to such a disease. In the first of these cases the person was about forty; in the last about twenty years of age.