SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORPwHCEA. 243 safer method than using pressure with a bougie, for the reason before mentioned, that is, on account of the danger of making a new passage, without destroying in the least any part of the obstruction. Most of the strictures which I have examined after death appeared to have been in the power of such treatment. However, I have seen one or two cases where the contraction was of some length and irre- gular, which would have puzzled me if I had attempted the cure with the caustic; because I should have been apt to suspect that I was making a new passage by my gaining ground, and yet not relieving the patient by the removal of the symptoms. I have often tried this practice in strictures where there were also fistulse in the urethra, and where the water came through different pas- sages. Such cases were not the most favourable; yet I succeeded in the greater part of them, that is, I overcame the stricture and could pass a bougie freely. I have seen several cases of fistulse of these parts, where the natural passage was obliterated by the stricture, in which I have succeeded with the caustic, and the fistulous orifices have readily healed. It does not happen always in cases of obstruction to the passage of the urine, that when the obstruction is removed by the caustic, and the water of course passes freely, a bougie will also pass. This, I appre- hend, arises from the caustic not having destroyed the stricture in a direct line with the urethra, so as to allow a bougie to catch the sound urethra beyond. But this appears to me of little consequence, as it is as much in the power of the bougie to prevent a return at this part as if it had passed on to the bladder; for if the water flows readily it is certain that the caustic has gone beyond the stricture, although it may not be in the direct line, and that the only risk of a return of obstruc- tion will be at the old stricture; but as a bougie can now pass beyond that part it does as much good as if it passed into the bladder; for I have known several cases where the bougie appeared to have the same effect as if it had passed on to the bladder. The application of the caustic need not be longer than a minute, and it may be repeated every day, or every other day, allowing time for the slough to come off. But there are other causes that may prevent the repetition of the caustic, besides waiting for the separation of the slough; for sometimes the use of it brings on irritation, inflammation, or spasm in the part, which frequently occasions a suppression of urine for a time, against which all the means used commonly on such occasions to pro- cure relief must be employed, and we must wait till these symptoms are gone off. If the patient can make water immediately after the appli- cation it will be proper, as it will wash away any caustic that may have r 2