OF BUBO. 373 first situation, and yields readily to the use of half a dram of mercurial ointment, made of equal parts of quicksilver and hog’s lard, every night, and the mouth does not become sore, or at most only tender, then it will be sufficient to pursue this course till the gland is reduced to its natural size; and this probably will be a good security for the consti- tution, provided that the chancre, which may have been the cause of the bubo, heals at the same time. If the mouth is not affected in six or eight days, and the gland does not readily resolve, then two scruples or a dram may be applied every night; and if there be no amendment, then more must be rubbed in; in short, if the reduction is obstinate the mercury must be pushed as far as can be done without a salivation. If there be a bubo on each side, then there cannot be so much mer- cury applied locally to each; for the constitution most probably could not bear double the quantity which is necessary for the resolution of one. But in such cases we must not so much attend to the soreness of the mouth as when there is but one; however, we must allow the buboes to go on to suppuration, rather than affect the constitution too much by the quantity of mercury; and therefore when there are two buboes they are more likely to suppurate than where there is only one. In the second and third situation of buboes, if we find that most pro- bably a sufficient quantity of mercury does not pass through them for their resolution, it may be continued to be thrown in by the leg and thigh to act upon the constitution, as has been already observed. The quantity admitted in this way must be greater than what would be ne- cessary if the whole could be made to pass through the bubo. The mouth must be affected, and that in proportion to the state and progress of the bubo. This method of resolving buboes occurred to me at Belleisle, in the year 1761, where I had good opportunities of trying it upon the soldiers; and I can say with truth that only three buboes have suppurated under my care since that time, and two of these were in one person, where a small quantity of mercury had considerable effects on the constitution, and therefore a sufficient quantity could not be sent through the two groins for their resolution; but in both cases the suppurations were small in comparison to what they threatened to be. Many buboes, after every attempt, remain swelled without either coming to resolution or suppuration, but rather become hard and scir- rhous. Such, I apprehend, were either scrofulous at first, or became so when the venereal disposition was removed. The cure of them should be attempted by hemlock, sea-water poultices, and sea-bathing, as will be further taken notice of.