OF THE LUES VENEREA. 383 ter in gonorrhoea and chancre; for there I observed that it produced effects according to the nature of the surfaces. Now if the matter, when in the constitution, were to act upon the same specific principles with that which is applied, we should have gonorrhoeas when it attacks a canal, sores or chancres when it attacks other surfaces ; but it has never been yet known to produce a gonorrhoea from the constitution, though this has indeed been suspected. For some gonorrhoeas, the origin of which has not been clear, and which have not easily given way to the common methods of cure, have been supposed to have arisen from the constitution. Whenever the disease affects the mouth and nose, it has always been looked upon as producing a true chancre ; yet even here I find that such ulcers in their first appearance are very dif- ferent from chancres. The true chancre, I observed, produces consi- derable inflammation, which of course brings on quickly suppuration, attended often with a great deal of pain ; but the local effects, from the constitution, are slow in their progress, attended with little inflamma- tion, and are seldom or never painful, except in particular parts. How- ever, this sluggishness in the effects of the poison is more or less accord- ing to the nature of the parts which become diseased ; for when the tonsils, uvula, or nose are affected, its progress is rapid, and the sores have more of the chancre in their appearance than when it affects the skin ; yet I do not think that the inflammation is so great in them as in chancres that are ulcerating equally fast. It has been supposed that even all the secretions from the contami- nated blood could be affected so as to produce a like poison in them ; and as the parts of generation are thrown in the way of receiving it, when fresh contracted, so they still lie under the censure of having it returned upon them from the constitution. Hence it has been sup- posed that the testicles and vesiculse seminales may be affected by the disease; that the semen may become venereal, may communicate the disease to others, and, after impregnation, may even grow into a pocky child. But all this is without foundation: otherwise, when a person has the lues venerea, no secreting surface could be free from the state of a gonorrhoea, nor could any sore be other than venereal. Contrary to all which, the secretions are the same as before; and if a sore is pro- duced by any other means in a sound part, that sore is not venereal, nor the matter poisonous, although formed from the same blood. The saliva in the case of a mad dog, being a natural secretion ren- dered poisonous, may be brought as an argument in contradiction to this theory ; yet it is easily accounted for, and might be produced ra- ther as an argument in support of it. In the dog there is an irritation peculiar to the hydrophobia in the salivary glands; but the other and