52 TIIE NATURAL HISTORY They serve likewise a secondary or subordinate purpose, giving strength and clearness to the sound of the voice, as is evident from the alteration produced in speaking, when the teeth are lost. This alteration, however, may not depend entirely upon the teeth, but, in some measure, on the other organs of the voice having been ac- customed to them ; and therefore when they are gone those other organs may be put out of their common play, and may not be able to adapt themselves so well to this new instrument. Yet I believe that habit in this case has no great effect, for those people seldom or never get the better of the defect; and young children who are shedding their teeth, and are, perhaps, without any fore teeth for half a year or more, always have that defect in their voice till the new teeth come, and as these grow the voice becomes clear again. This use seems to be entirely in the fore teeth, for the loss of one of these makes a great alteration, and the loss of two or three grinders seems to have no sensible effect. As an argument for the use of the teeth in modifying the sound of the voice, we may observe, that the fore teeth come at a time when the child begins to articulate sounds, and at that time they are so loose in the gums that they can be of very little service in mastication. Every defect in speech, arising from this defect in the organ, is gene- rally attended with what we call a lisp. People who have lost all their teeth, and most old people for that reason, lose, in a great measure, their voice. This arises partly from the loss of the fore teeth, but prin- cipally from the loss of all the teeth, and of the alveolar processes of both jaws, by which means the mouth becomes too small for the tongue, and the lips and cheeks become flaccid, insomuch that the nicer move- ments of these parts, in the articulation of sounds, are obstructed, and thence the words and syllables are indistinctly pronounced and slurred, or run into one another. Under what Class do the Human Teeth come. Natural historians have been at great pains to prove, from the teeth, that man is not a carnivorous animal; but in this, as in many other things, they have not been accurate in their definitions; nor have they determined what a carnivorous animal is. If they mean an animal that catches and kills his prey with his teeth, and eats that flesh of the prey just as it is killed, they are in the right; man is not in this sense a carnivorous animal, and therefore he has not teeth like those of a lion ; and this, I presume, is what they mean.