304 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. or way of life, for removing this complaint. In one case I found con- siderable benefit from giving hemlock internally. The idea that has been formed of the disease leads to the practice generally recommended, such as giving strengthening medicines of all kinds ; but I never saw any good effects from any of them, and I should rather be inclined to take up the soothing plan to prevent all violent actions. Keeping the body gently open will in some degree moderate the discharge, and probably may effect a cure in the end. CHAPTER XII. OF IMPOTENCE. This complaint is by many laid to the charge of Onanism at an early age ; but how far this is just it will in many cases be difficult to deter- mine; for, upon a strict review of this subject, it appears to me to be by far too rare to originate from a practice so general. How far the attributing to this practice such a consequence is of public utility, I am doubtful, particularly as it is followed most com- monly at an age when consequences are not sufficiently attended to, even in things less gratifying to the senses; but this I can say with certainty, that many of those who are affected with the complaints in question are miserable from this idea; and it is some consolation for them to know that it is possible it may arise from other causes. I am clear in my own mind that the books on this subject have done more harm than good. In the cases of this kind that have come under my care, although the persons themselves have been very ready to suppose that the disease has arisen from the cause here alluded to, yet they did not appear to have given more into the practice than common ; and in particular, the worst case I have ever seen was where but very little of this practice had ever been used, much less than in common among boys*. Nothing hurts the mind of a man so much as the idea of inability to * Added: “ which is particularly pernicious from the frequency of the repetition, there being no want of opportunity.”—Home.