OF THE VENEREAL POISON. 140 shows that it is most generally, although not necessarily, a consequence of inflammation. It produces or excites, therefore, in most cases, an inflammation in the parts contaminated ; besides which inflammation, the parts so contaminated have a peculiar mode of action superadded, dif- ferent from all other actions attending inflammation; and it is this spe- cific mode of action which produces the specific quality in the matter. It is not necessary that inflammation should he present to keep up this peculiar mode of action, because the poison continues to be formed long after all signs of inflammation have ceased. This appears from the fol- lowing facts : men having only what is called a gleet, or healing chancre, give the disease to sound women; and many venereal gonorrhoeas hap- pen without any visible signs of inflammation. In women the inflammation is frequently very slight, and often there is not the least sign of it, for they have been known to infect men though they themselves have had no symptoms of inflammation, or of the disease in any form. Therefore the inflammation and suppuration, when present, are only attendants on the peculiar mode of action, the degree in which they take place depending more on the nature of the constitution than on that of the poison. The formation of matter also, though a very general, is not a constant attendant on this disease, for we sometimes find inflammation produced by the venereal poison which does not terminate in suppuration; such inflammation I suspect to be of the erysipelatous kind. It is the mat- ter produced, with or without inflammation, which alone contains the poison, for without the formation of matter no venereal poison can exist. Therefore a person having the venereal irritation in any form, not at- tended with a discharge, cannot communicate the disease to another. To communicate the disease, therefore, it is necessary that the venereal action should first take place, that matter should be formed in conse- quence of that action, and that the matter should be applied to a sound person or part. That the venereal disease is to be propagated only by matter is proved every day by a thousand instances. Married men contract the disease, and not suspecting that they have caught it, cohabit with their wives, even for weeks. Upon discovering symptoms of the disease they of course desist; yet in all my practice I never once found that the com- plaint was communicated under such circumstances, except where they had not been very attentive to the symptoms, and therefore continued the connexion after the discharge had appeared. I have gone so far as to allow husbands while infected, but before the appearance of discharge, to cohabit with their wives in order to save appearances, and always with safety. I could carry this still further, and even allow a man who