OF THE DISEASES 106 rally inflammation, heat, and swelling of the gums, and an increased flow of saliva. The constitutional or general consequential symptoms are fever and universal convulsion. The fever is sometimes slight and sometimes violent. It is very remarkable both for its sudden rise and declension; so that in the first hour of this illness the child shall be perfectly cool, and in the second flushed and burning hot, and in the third temperate again. The partial or local consequential symptoms are the most various and complicated; for the appearance they put on is in some degree deter- mined by the nature of the parts they affect: wherefore they imitate various diseases of the human body. These symptoms we shall describe in the order of their most frequent occurrence. Diarrhoea, costiveness, loss of appetite, eruptions on the skin, espe- cially on the face and scalp, cough, shortness of breath, with a kind of convulsed respiration, similar to that observable in the hooping cough, spasms of particular parts, either by intervals or continued, an increased secretion of urine, and sometimes a diminution of that secretion, a dis- charge of matter from the penis, with difficulty and pain in making water, imitating exactly a violent gonorrhoea. The lymphatic glands of the neck are at this time apt to swell; and if the child has a strong tendency to the scrofula, this irritation will promote that disease. There may be many other symptoms with which we are not at all acquainted, the patients in general not being able to express their feel- ings. Many of the symptoms of this disease are dangerous, namely, the constitutional ones, and also those local symptoms which attack a vital part. The fever, indeed, seldom lasts so long as to be fatal; but the convulsions, especially when universal, frequently are so. Local con- vulsions, if not in a vital part, although often very violent, do not kill; and when any part not vital sympathizes, the patient is generally free from danger; a security to the whole being obtained by the sufferings of a part which is of little consequence to life. Universal sympathy seems to be the first effect of irritation, and in general appears as such in those whose local and partial sensation, and irritability, are not yet formed; for in such subjects, when one part is irritated, the whole sympathizes, and general convulsions ensue. But as the sensations and partial irritability begin to be formed, each part, in some degree acting for itself, acquires its own peculiarities; so that when a local disease takes place in a patient that is very young, it is capable of giving a general disposition to sympathize; but as the child advances, the power of sympathy becomes partial, there not being now