SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 231 yond it. I never saw a stricture in that part of the urethra which passes through the prostate gland ; and the bulb, besides being the most frequent seat of this disease, has likewise strictures formed there of the worst kind. They are generally slow in forming, it being often several years from their being perceived before they become very troublesome. The same stricture is not at all times equally bad, for we find that in warm weather it is not nearly so troublesome as in cold. These changes are often very quick. A cold day, even an hour of cold weather, shall produce a change in them; and the same stricture is almost always worse in winter than in summer. However, this observation is not free from exceptions ; I knew one case that was always worse in the summer. There are other circumstances besides cold that make a stricture worse. A gentleman who had an ague always found the stricture increased during the fit. It is also increased by drinking, violent exercise, and by the retention of urine after an inclination to void it has been felt. This last cause is often so great as to produce a total stoppage for a time. It is sometimes rendered much worse by a small calculus passing from the bladder, of the formation of which this stricture was probably the cause. The calculus not passing, will produce a total stoppage of urine, the cause of which can hardly be known at the time, and if known it could not be remedied without an operation*. It is impossible to say what is the cause of that alteration in the structure of the urethra which diminishes the canal: it has been ascribed to the effects of the venereal disease, and often to the method of cure. But I doubt very much if it commonly, or even ever, arises from these causes ; yet as most men have had venereal complaints some time or other, it is natural to ascribe the stricture to them, and there- fore it may be very difficult to refute this opinion. Many reasons, however, can be given why we should suppose that it is not commonly a consequence of a venereal inflammation. Strictures are common to most passages in the human body; they are often to be found in the oesophagus ; in the intestines, especially the rectum ; in the anus ; in the prepuce, producing phimosis ; in the lachrymal duct, producing the dis- ease called fistula lachrymalis, where no disease had previously existed. They sometimes happen in the urethra where no venereal complaint has ever been. I have seen an instance of this kind in a young man of nineteen, who had had the complaint for eight years, and which there- fore began when he was only eleven years of age. It was treated at first as stone or gravel. He was of a scrofulous habit, the lips thick, the eyes sore, a thickened cornea of one eye, and the general habit weak. * Vide Plate XII.