384 OF THE LUES VENEREA. natural secretions of the same dog are not capable of giving this infec- tion, because they are not susceptible of the same specific irritation. The breath and sweat are supposed to carry along with them conta- gion, the milk of the breast is supposed to be capable of containing ve- nereal poison and of affecting the child who sucks it; but there are several reasons which overturn these opinions. First, we find that no secretion is affected by this poison, excepting where the secreting or- gans have been previously affected by venereal inflammation or irrita- tation, or its specific mode of action. Again, if they were contaminated so as to produce matter similar to that of an ulcer in the throat, such matter would not be poisonous, nor possess a power of communicating the disease, as will be explained more fully hereafter. Further, true venereal matter, even when taken into the stomach, does not affect either the stomach or constitution, but is digested: as was evident in the two following cases. A gentleman, who had chancres which discharged largely, used to wash the parts with milk in a teacup with some lint, and generally let the lint lie in the cup with the milk. A little boy in the house stole the milk and drank it, but whether or not he swallowed the lint was not known. No notice was taken of this by the gentleman either to the family or the boy ; and attention, unknown to the family, was paid to the boy even for years, but nothing happened that could give the least suspicion of his having been affected either locally in the stomach or constitutionally. A gentleman had a most violent gonorrhoea, in which both the in- flammation and the discharge were remarkably great. He had also a chordee, which was very troublesome at night. In order to cool the parts, and keep them clean, he had a small bason of milk by the bed- side, in which, when the chordee was troublesome, he got up and dipped or washed the penis. This operation he frequently repeated during the night. Under such complaints he allowed a young lady to sleep with him. Her custom was to have by the bedside a bason of tea to drink in the morning before she got up ; but unfortunately for the lady, she drank one morning the milk instead of the tea. This was not known till she got up, which was five or six hours afterwards. I was sent for directly, and in the mean time she endeavoured to vomit, but could not. I ordered ipecacuanha, which proved slow in its operation. She vo- mited, but it was more than eight hours after drinking the milk and water, and what came up was nothing but slime, mucus, or water, the milk being digested. I was attentive to what might follow; but no- thing uncommon happened, at least for many months. It is also supposed that a foetus in the womb of a pocky mother may