OF GONORRHCEA. 164 more skill is necessary. The reason is obvious: gonorrhoea cures it- self, whilst the other forms of the disease require the assistance of art. It sometimes happens that the parts,which become irritated first get well, while another part of the same surface receives the irritation, which continues the disease, as happens when it shifts from the glans to the urethra. From this circumstance of all gonorrhoeas ceasing without medical help, I should doubt very much the possibility of a person getting a fresh gonorrhoea while he has that disease, or of his increasing the same by the application of fresh matter of its own kind. And this ob- servation holds in all the forms of the disease; for it has been proved that the application of the matter from a gonorrhoea to a bubo does not in the least retard the cure of that bubo : nor does the matter of a chancre applied to a bubo, nor the matter of a bubo applied to a chancre, produce any bad effect; though if venereal matter is applied to a com- mon sore it will often produce the venereal irritation. By all which I am led to believe that the venereal matter formed in a gonorrhoea does not assist in keeping up that gonorrhoea; for it is only an application of matter, the poison and effects of which are exactly similar to the effects upon the solids already produced; and that nothing could increase or continue the effect but something that is capable of increasing the disposition of the parts themselves to such inflammation, or of making them more susceptible of it. We find, besides, that a gonorrhoea may be cured while there is a chancre, and vice versd : now if fresh venereal matter were capable of keeping up the disease, no gonorrhoea could ever get well while there is this supply of venereal matter*. From all this it is reasonable to suppose that such a surface of an animal body is not capable of being irritated by its own matter; nor is it capable of being irritated beyond a certain time; and therefore if fresh venereal matter were continued to be applied to the urethra of a man having a gonor- rhoea, that it would go off just as soon as if no such application had been made, and get as soon well as if great pains had been taken to * When treating of pus, in my lectures, I observed that I was inclined to be- lieve that no matter, of whatever kind, can produce any effect upon the part that formed it: nor do I believe that the matter of any sore, let it be what it will, ever does or can do any hurt to that sore; for the parts which formed the matter are of the same nature, and cannot be irritated by that which they produced, except extraneous matter is joined with it. The gland which forms the poison of the viper, and the duct which conveys it to the tooth, are not irritated by the poison ; and it would appear from Abbe Fontana’s experiments that the viper cannot be affected by its own poison. Vide Traite sur le Venin de la Vipere, par M. F. Fontana, vol. i. p. 22. If what I have now ad- vanced is true, wiping or washing away matter, under the idea of keeping the parts clean, is in every case absurd.