181 OF GONORRHOEA. from being obliged to remove it, that the whole has swelled. The pain is in every part of the testicle. I have seen such swellings suppurate on the fore part, and have known several instances of adhesions between the tunica albuginea and vaginalis, from such causes. This has only been discovered after death, or in the operation for a partial hydrocele. Such changes could not have taken place if the body of the testicle had not been in a state of inflammation. This inflammation of the testicle most probably arises from its sympathising with the urethra, and in many cases it would ajjpear to arise from what is understood by a translation of the irritation from the urethra to the testicle. Thus a swelling of the testicle coming on shall remove the pain in making water, and suspend the discharge, which shall not return till the swelling of the testicle begin to subside ; or the irritation in the urethra first ceasing shall produce a swelling of the testicle, which shall continue till the pain and discharge return, thus rendering it doubtful which is the cause and which the effect. I have nevertheless known cases where the tes- ticle has swelled and yet the discharge has become more violent; nay, I have seen instances where a swelling has come on after the discharge has ceased, yet the discharge has returned with violence, and remained as long as the swelling of the testicle. Sometimes the epididymis only is affected, sometimes the vas deferens, and at other times only the spermatic chord, producing varicose veins. No reason can be assigned why one of these parts is affected more than another, and indeed the immediate cause in all is as yet unknown; for although an action in the urethra is the remote cause, yet it is still impossible to say whether it be the cessation of that action that is the cause of the swelling in the testicle, or the swelling in the testicle the cause of the cessation. It is described as arising from an irritation taking place in the mouths of the vasa deferentia. Were this the cause, it ought in general to affect both testicles at the same time: but I have seen this complaint happen as often where the inflammation has gone no further back in the urethra than about an inch and a half or two inches, as where it has extended further; and the circumstance of the swelling shifting suddenly from one testicle to the other shows it to arise from some other principle in the animal ceconomy. A strangury often attends such cases of sympathy, and more fre- quently when the running stops, than when it is continued along with the swelling of the testicle. Indeed any sudden stoppage of the dis- charge gives a tendency to a strangury*. • Added: “ When the testicle is swelled, blood comes away with the semen ; this may either be thrown out in the act of secretion, or come from the blood-vessels of the ure- thra in the act of emission.”—Home.