64 OF THE DISEASES This inflammation of the tooth often lasts a considerable time, and then gradually subsides. We may suppose, according to the general law of inflammation, that it is at first of the adhesive kind, and accord- ingly we sometimes find the teeth swelled at their ends, which is a character of the adhesive stage of inflammation; and sometimes two fangs are grown together. That we seldom find adhesions between the teeth and surrounding parts may be reasonably imputed to their less aptitude for such connexions. The suppurative inflammation suc- ceeds ; but as a tooth has not that power of suppuration -which leads to granulations, so as to be buried, covered up, and made part of ourselves, as happens to other bones (which would destroy any use of a tooth), the inflammation wears out, or rather the parts not being susceptible of this irritation beyond a certain time, the inflammation gradually goes off, and leaves the tooth in its original diseased state. No perma- nent cure, therefore, can possibly be effected by such inflammations; but the parts being left in the same state as before, they are still subject to repetitions of inflammation till some change takes place, preventing future attacks, which I believe is generally, if not always, effected by the destruction of those parts which are the seat of it, viz. the soft parts within the tooth. Nature seems in some measure to have considered the teeth as aliens, only giving them nourishment while sound and fit for service, but not allowing them when diseased the common benefits of that society in which they are placed. They cannot exfoliate, as no operations go on in them except growth; therefore, if any part is dead, the living has not the power of throwing it off, and forming an external surface capa- ble of supporting itself, like the other parts of the body: indeed, if they had such a power no good purpose could be answered by it; for a piece of tooth simply dead is almost as useful as if the whole was living; which may be observed every day. The pain, however, appears to take its rise from the tooth as a centre. That it should be more severe than what is generally produced by si- milar inflammations in other parts of the body, may, perhaps, be ac- counted for when we consider that these parts do not readily yield; as is likewise the case in wliitloes. It sometimes happens that the mind is not directed to the real seat of the disease, the sensation of pain not seeming to be in the diseased tooth, but in some neighbouring tooth which is perfectly sound. This has often misled operators, and the sympathizing tooth has fallen a sacrifice to their ignorance. In all cases of diseased teeth the pain is brought on by circumstances unconnected with the disease ; as, for instance, cold, wherefore they are