OF THE LUES VENEREA. 459 Some of the sores formed in this way not only resist all means of cure, but often inflame, ulcerate, and form hard callous bases, so as to put on the appearance of a cancer, and are often supposed really to be so. We find also that new diseases arise from the mercury alone. The tonsils shall swell where no venereal disease has been before; the peri- osteum shall thicken, and also probably the bones, and the parts over them shall become cedematous and sore to the touch ; but as these com- plaints arise while under a mercurial course, they are not to be reckoned venereal, but a new disease, although they are too often supposed to be venereal, and on that account the mercury is pushed as far as possible. In such cases, if the complaints for which the mercury was given are nearly cured, and the medicine has been continued a sufficient time after to complete the cure of those complaints, then of course it should be left off; and if there be any doubt, it should be left off rather sooner than if no such complaint had taken place, because it is probably producing a worse disease than the venereal; and if, after the cure of these com- plaints from the mercury, the venereal disease begins again to come into action, mercury must be given a second time ; and now the constitution will be better able to bear it, especially if attention has been paid to the restoring the strength of it. Those diseases of the tonsils and perios- teum I suspect to be of scrofulous origin. Besides local complaints, arising from the combined action of the mercury, the disease, and the constitution, there is sometimes a consti- tutional effect, which is a weakness or debility, a languor, want of ap- petite, frequent sweats threatening hectic; but these happen mostly in those constitutions with which mercury disagrees. These complaints, local as well as constitutional, arise in some measure from weakness. They are difficult of cure, whether arising from a venereal chancre, bubo, or the lues venerea. Strengthening medicines are of most service : the bark is of great use, though in general not sufficient, as it can only more or less remove the weakness, the specific qualities still remaining. What these are is, I believe, not yet known ; but I suspect that many partake of the scrofula, and this opinion is strengthened by their frequently giving way to sea-bathing*. * In a case of an ulcerated rib from a venereal cause, and five nodes on the shin-bone, of twelve months’ standing, a deep salivation of six months was undergone, after fruit- less attempts by gentle friction. None of the sores were healed by the mercury, and the patient was ordered to bathe in the sea, and take the bark. In three or four months the sores all healed up very kindly, but the side the last of all.