SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 267 should be as large as the strictured part will allow, and its sides should be as thin as possible, that its passage may be the larger. The elastic gum has these two properties in a higher degree than the spiral wire covered with waxed cloth. But, as I doubt very much that the passage of the urine may be a hindrance to the healing of the sore, I am the less solicitous about such practice; for we find that after lithotomy the parts heal very readily; and even in this operation the external parts which are not diseased heal up very readily. I suspect that the want of disposition to heal arises from the strictures not being sufficiently subdued, or the deeper parts not being in a healthy state. When these suppurations are left to themselves, and no method tried to remove the stricture, and of course nothing introduced into the ure- thra, the stricture sometimes closes entirely, so that no water can pass forwards through the urethra; and therefore, before any attempt can be made to heal the fistulous orifices, a passage must be made through the united parts. This cannot be done with a bougie ; and if this union of the parts is before the bend of the urethra, which most commonly it is, nothing but the caustic can be applied with any prospect of success, as we shall mention more fully in treating of the fistula in perineeo. ยง.5. Of the Effects of Inflammation in the surrounding Parts upon the Constitution. The effects which these attempts to form a new passage for the urine have upon the constitution are very considerable ; much more so than what one would at first expect. Those cases appear to be most formi- dable which begin by ulceration on the inner surface of the urethra, and where the water diffuses itself into the cellular membrane of the scro- tum and penis. Those where the inflammation is circumscribed are more of the true abscess, and therefore do much less mischief to the parts than when the urine is diffused in the cellular membrane. In these last, if not soon relieved, the patient sinks, and a mortification comes on. If, before the patient sinks, a separation of the slough takes place, this separation performs the operation of opening, and the patient may recover. We should not, I believe, wait for such separation of the mortified part, but make an opening early, upon the first knowledge of a diffusion of water into the cellular membrane; and we should be guided as to situation by introducing a staff into the urethra on to the stricture. But in some cases this cannot be done; for when the urine gets into the corpus