26 THE NATURAL HISTORY * PI. V. f. 8, where four dark spots are observed. f PI. III. f. 4. the inner do on the inside; so that the body of the tooth swells out more from the points, or is more convex, on the outside. The body towards its neck becomes but very little smaller, and there divides into two flat fangs, one forwards the other backwards, with their edges turned outwards and inwards, and their sides consequently forwards and backwards : the fangs are but very little narrower at their ends, which are pretty broad and often bifurcated. There are two cavities in each fang, one towards each edge leading to the general cavity in the body of the tooth. These two cavities are formed by the meeting of the sides of the fang in the middle, thereby dividing the broad and flat cavity into two *; ahd all along the outside of these (and all the other flat fangs) there is a corresponding longitudinal groove. These fangs at their middle are generally bent a little backwards f. The enamel covers the bodies of these teeth pretty equally all round. The first grinder is somewhat larger and stronger than the second; it is turned a little more inwards than the adjacent bicuspides, but not so much as the second grinder. Both of them have generally shorter fangs than the bicuspides. There is a greater difference between these grinders in the upper and lower jaw than between any of the other teeth. In the upper jaw they are rather rhomboidal than square in their body, with one sharp angle turned forwards and outwards, the other backwards and inwards; be- sides, they have three fangs, which diverge, and terminate each in a point: these are almost round, and have but one cavity. Two of them are placed near each other perpendicularly over the outside of the tooth; and the other, which generally is the largest, stands at a greater distance on the inside of the tooth, slanting inwards. In this jaw these two grind- ers are inclined outwards, and a little forwards ; they project a little over the corresponding teeth of the lower jaw, and are placed further back in the mouth, so that each is partly opposed to two of the lower jaw. The second in the upper jaw is smaller than the others; and the first and second are placed directly under the maxillary sinus. I once saw the second grinder naturally wanting on one side of the lower jaw. The third grinder is commonly called dens sapientioe: it is a little shorter and smaller than the others, and inclined a little more inwards and forwards. Its body is nearly of the same figure, but rather rounder, and its fangs are generally not so regular and distinct, for they often appear squeezed together; and sometimes there is only one fang, which makes the tooth conical: it is much smaller than the rest of the grind- ers. In the upper jaw this tooth has more variety than in the lower.