34 THE NATURAL HISTORY stances have begun to ossify, and the first of them is a little advanced * ; and besides these, the pulp of the sixth tooth has begun to be formed : it is situated in the tubercle of the upper jaw, and under and on the in- side of the coronoid process in the lower jaw. So that at this age, in both jaws, there are in all twenty teeth which have begun to ossify, and the stamina of twenty-four. They may be divided into the incisores, cuspidati, and molares, for at this age there are no bicuspides, the two last teeth on each side of both jaws having all the characteristics and answering all the purposes of the true molares in the adult, though when these first molares fall out their places are taken by the bicuspides. The teeth gradually advance in their ossification, and about the se- venth, eighth, or ninth month after birth, the incisores begin to cut or pass through the gums, first, generally, in the lower jaw. Before this time the ossifications in the third grinder, or that which makes the first in the adult, have begun f. The cuspidati and molares of the foetus are not formed so fast as the incisores; they generally all appear nearly about the same time, viz. about the twentieth or twenty-fourth month; however, the first grinder is often more advanced within the socket than the cuspidatus, and most commonly appears before it. These twenty are the only teeth that are of use to the child from the seventh, eighth, or ninth month, till the twelfth or fourteenth year. These are called the temporary, or milk teeth, because they are all shed between the years of seven and fourteen, and are supplied by others. Of the Cause of Pam in Dentition. These twenty teeth in cutting the gum give pain, and produce many other symptoms which often prove fatal to children in dentition. It has been generally supposed that these symptoms arise from the tooth’s pressing upon the inside of the gum, and working its way mechanically; but the following observations seem to be nearer the truth. The teeth, when they begin to press against the gum, irritate it, and commonly give pain. The gums are then affected with heat, swelling, redness, and the other symptoms of inflammation. The gum is not cut through by simple or mechanical pressure, but the irritation and con- sequent inflammation produces a thinning or wasting of the gum at this part; for it often happens, that when an extraneous or a dead sub- * PI. YII. f. 1 & 2, where these ossifications are represented. f PI. VII. f. 3, where the first incisors had cut the gum, and where the third grinder in the child, or first in the adult, had begun to ossify.