280 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. face next the urethra rounded or convex, and the left side was exactly- fitted to it, having its surface hollowed in the same proportion. The small projecting point of the gland was so much enlarged as to come forwards into the cavity of the bladder, and fill up entirely the passage at the neck of it. The bladder itself was very much enlarged and thick- ened in its coats, and contained above twenty stones, most of them lying behind the projecting process of the prostate gland, and the rest lodged in small sacs, made by the internal membrane being pushed some little way between the fasciculi of muscular fibres. The prostate gland, when swelled, generally becomes firmer in its consistence. The effects of these swellings are very considerable, for they squeeze the sides of the urethra close together, and the projecting point hinders in some degree the urine from entering the passage, and in many cases stops it entirely. Further, the increased firmness of the substance of the gland hinders it from yielding to the force of the urine, so that little or none can pass. It will be unnecessary to relate the particular symptoms which this disease occasions ; they are such as arise from any stoppage of urine, producing an irritable bladder. When a difficulty in making water takes place, a bougie is the in- strument which the surgeon will naturally have recourse to, and if he finds the passage clear, which he often will, in such cases he may very probably suspect a stone. If search is made, and no stone felt, he should naturally suspect the prostate gland, especially if the sound or instru- ment used meets with a full stop, or passes with some difficulty just at the neck of the bladder. He should examine the gland. This can only be done by introducing the finger into the anus, first oiling it well, placing the fore part of the finger towards the pubes; and if the parts, as far as the end of the finger can reach, are hard, making an eminence backwards into the rectum, so that the finger is obliged to be removed from side to side, to feel the whole extent of such a swelling, and it also appears to go beyond the reach of the finger, we may be certain the gland is considerally swelled, and is the principal cause of those symptoms. I have known cases where the common catheter has been pushed through the projecting part of the gland into the bladder, and the water then drawn off; but in one patient the blood from the wound passed into the bladder and increased the quantity of matter in it. The use of the catheter was attempted a second time, but not succeeding, I was sent for. I passed the catheter till it came to the stop, and then sus- pecting that this part of the prostate projected forwards, I introduced my finger into the anus, and found that gland very much enlarged. By depressing the handle of the catheter, which of course raised the