OF THE LUES VENEREA. 450 such medicines as were thought likely to remove this new complaint. This susceptibility of the glands of the mouth, and the mouth in gene- ral, to be easily put into action by this medicine, was generally supposed to arise from a scorbutic constitution, to which most complaints of the mouth are attributed. I am of opinion that scrofulous people, and those of a lax and delicate habit, are more subject to have it fall on the mouth than those of a contrary temperament. Purges were given upon a supposition that mercury could be carried off by the evacuation produced by them, and they were repeated accord- ing to the violence of the effects of the medicine and the strength of the patient; but I can hardly say that I ever have seen the effects of mer- cury upon the mouth lessened by purging, whether it arose spontane - ously, was produced by purging medicines, or even when arising from the mercury itself. As this method was not found sufficient for the re- moval of the complaint, other medicines were tried; sulphur was sup- posed to be a specific for the removal of the effect of mercury. Whe- ther this idea arose from practice or reasoning is not material*, but I think I have seen good effects from it in some cases. If we can sup- pose purging of any service, purging with sulphur would answer best, as it would exert its effects both as a purge and a specific. Sulphur certainly enters the circulation as sulphur, because our sweat and urine smell of it; if it does not combine with the mercury, and de- stroy its properties as mercury, it is possible, agreeably to the opinion of those who first thought of giving it with this intention, that it may so combine as to form sethiops mineral, or something similar, for we know that the sethiops mineral, however formed, does not in general salivate. It is possible, too, that sulphur may act as a contrary stimulus to mercury, by counteracting the effects of it in the constitution. Sulphur has even been supposed to hinder the mercury from entering the circulation. Upon the whole, as these preparations of sulphur and mercury are still supposed to have good effects, and as I think I have seen good effects in other cases, we must either allow that they enter the circulation, or that their whole effects are on the stomach and intestines, with which the rest of the body sympathizes. The good effects from sulphur in lessening or altering the immediate effects of mercury, can only take place when that medicine is really in the constitution; therefore a di- stinction is to be made between such as arise immediately from mer- cury, and one continued from habit, after the mercury has been eva- * Sulphur, united with any of the metals, probably destroys their solubility in the juices, or at least their effects in the circulation: none of the cinnabars act either as sulphur or mercury. Crude antimony, which is regulus and sulphur, has no effect. Arsenic, wher joined with sulphur, has no effect; nor has iron.