OF THE LUES VENEREA. 396 constitutions has its specific distance, although not so determined or circumscribed as is that of the specific in such constitutions; therefore we may reasonably suppose that such healthy constitutions are the fur- thest in disposition from the inflammatory action ; and we may also sup- pose still more so from the specific. What would appear to strengthen this idea is, that when the constitution is such as readily goes into in- flammation, the more readily does the inflammation spread, every part being susceptible of such action ; and we find that in many the specific also spreads, although not in so great a degree, from which we may suppose that the specific is always a more confined mode of action. I have suspected that when the body was disposed to increase the inflam- mation beyond the specific distance, it was of the erysipelatous kind, as was mentioned before, and which is to be attended to in the cure. §•7* Of the Parts most susceptible of the Lues Venerea—of the time and manner in which they are affected. — IVhat is meant by Contamination, Disposition, and Action.—Summary of the Doctrine. When I assigned the causes for so great a difference in the effects of the same poison upon two different surfaces, as forming the gonorrhoea and chancre, I then said I did not know whether similar surfaces in every part of the body were equally susceptible of this irritation, having but few comparative trials of the direct application of the poison to other parts besides those of generation. But it would apjDear that some parts of the body are much less susceptible of the lues venerea than others; and not only so, but many parts, so far as we know, are not susceptible of it at all. For we have not yet had every part of the body affected : we have not seen the brain affected, the heart, stomach, liver, kidneys, nor other viscera, although such cases are described in authors. But .as there are different orders of parts respecting the times of the disease appearing, and as the person commonly flies to relief upon the first or .■second appearances, it may be supposed that the whole disease in the parts actually affected is cured before the other parts have had time to come into action, which will therefore be cured under the state of a dis- position only, if we can conceive that a cure can take place before the parts have come into action. But if the parts visibly affected are cured, while those only disposed are not, and afterwards come into action, they would form a second order respecting time ; and if these again are cured, and other parts under a disposition should come into action, such would form a third order of parts respecting time. The lungs have been be-