2*6 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. CHAPTER HI. OF STRICTURES IN WOMEN. Obstructions to the urine in women, I believe, generally arise from stricture, although not always; for I have known them produced by work on strictures in the urethra and oesophagus should be consulted by all who wish to be acquainted with its various effects in detail. The mode of applying the caustic has been greatly improved. The use of the can- nula has been discarded, and an armed bougie has been substituted in its place; that is, a small piece of nitrate of silver has been let into a common bougie, in such a man- ner as to present only on the surface of the extremity, and to be encircled on all sides by the plaster of which the bougie is composed. This instrument can be applied with far greater accuracy than the cannula; the bougie can with ease be adapted to the cur- vature of the urethra, and the sides of the canal are protected from the action of the caustic. It appears that this contrivance was invented by Mr. Hunter himself, who employed it many years before his death in preference to that which he has detailed in this work. When it is intended to apply the caustic, it is necessary in the first instance to pass down to the stricture a common bougie, of such a size as moderately to fill the passage, and composed of such soft materials as readily to receive the impression of the part against which it is pressed. By first introducing this bougie, and keeping it for the space of a minute pressed against the stricture, the surgeon obtains several advantages. The urethra is opened, and the subsequent passage of the armed bougie rendered more easy and rapid; the exact distance of the stricture from the orifice is ascertained ; and such a cast is taken of the stricture as to show accurately its size and shape, and to ascertain what effect lias been produced by previous applications of the caustic. This information is so necessary that without it the treatment by caustic could not be pursued. The destruction of the disease is frequently partial and irregular. The armed bougie, notwithstanding every precaution, is sometimes not applied accurately on the orifice, or the caustic is dissolved in the moisture of the passage, and runs down to the lower part of the urethra, leaving the upper part almost untouched. These de- viations must be accurately ascertained, in order that they may be corrected in subse- quent applications. After this previous step, the armed bougie is to be introduced, the distance of the stricture having been first marked upon it. It should be of such a size as to fill the urethra, and should be pressed against the part for the space of a quarter of a minute or more. The time should be partly regulated by the sensations of the patient. As soon as a burning pain begins to be felt, it should be withdrawn. The use of the caustic should not be repeated oftener than every third or fourth day, since that interval must be allowed for the separation of the slough. The effects of caustic on strictures have been found in practice to be somewhat dif- ferent from those which were anticipated by its first proposers. Its first and great effect is the relief of spasm. The morbid irritability of the part is exhausted by the violence of the stimulus. When the contraction is merely spasmodic, it is in most instances en- tirely removed by one or two applications. All difficulty of voiding the urine then disappears, and a full-sized bougie can be passed readily into the bladder. When there