OF THE LUES VENEREA. 398 body have a greater tendency to be irritated by it than others, must be allowed. The parts that are affected by this form of the disease when in its early stage or appearance, which I have called first in order, are the skin, tonsils, nose, throat, inside of the mouth, and sometimes the tongue*. When in its later state, the peiiosteum, fasciae, and bones come into ac- tion, and these I call second in order of parts. Perhaps the bones come into action from the membrane being affected. That we may be able to account in some measure for these similar effects as to time in dissimilar parts, such as the skin and the tonsils, two very different kinds of parts, let us consider in what circumstance they agree, and why they are more susceptible of this irritation than those parts that probably are naturally as much so, although they do not re- ceive it so readily, such as the periosteum, fascia?, and bones. The most remarkable circumstance perhaps to which the external sur- face is exposed, and to which the internal is not, is cold; or a succession of different degrees of cold. For we may observe in general that the atmosphere in which we live is colder than the human body f in its usual temperature, therefore the skin, &c. is continually exposed to a cold greater than what the internal parts are ; and we find that all those parts which are most exposed to this admit of being much more easily affected, or come more readily into action in this disease than the others. It is certain that cold has very powerful effects on the animal ceco- nomy. It would at least appear to have great powers of disposing the body for receiving the venereal irritation, and going readily on with it. From this idea we may account for several circumstances respecting this disease, as the mouth, nose, and skin being the most frequently affected, since they are rendered most susceptible of it from the causes before mentioned, and for the same reason come very readily into action. If this be a true solution, it also accounts for those second in order being affected ; for if the poison has contaminated parts which are both first in order of susceptibility and time of coming into action, it is natural to suppose that those parts which are most predisposed, as the external surfaces, shall come first into action; the parts exposed to cold, in the * The tongue is very subject to have ulcers formed on it, especially on its edges. They are seldom very large, nor are they often either very foul or have a hard basis: these are commonly supposed to be venereal; but I believe they seldom are. I do not know whether I am or not acquainted with the distinguishing marks. I never saw but one that I suspected to be either venereal or cancerous from its foul look and its hard basis. It gave way readily to mercury, therefore I supposed it to be venereal. f It is to be understood that this cannot hold good as an universal principle: it can only take place in the temperate and frigid zone ; for in the torrid the heat of the sur- rounding atmosphere is sometimes greater than that of the human body.