OF GONORRHOEA. 186 ter to the glans can produce a discharge from the urethra, it is possible that any acrid matter, though not venereal, may have a similar effect. The discharge from the vagina, in cases of what is called fluor albus, is sometimes extremely irritating, in so much as to excoriate the labia and thighs ; and the following history shows that it may sometimes produce effects similar to venereal matter. Mr. and Mrs. have been married these twenty years and up- wards. She has for many years past been at times troubled with the fluor albus. When he has connexion with her at such times, it has ge- nerally, although not always, produced an excoriation of the glans and prepuce, and a considerable discharge from the urethra, attended with a slight pain. These symptoms commonly take a considerable time before they go off, whether treated as a gonorrhoea or as a weakness. Is this a new poison ? And does it go no further because the connexion takes place only between two ? What would be the consequence if she were to have connexion with other men, and these with other women ? Such cases, as far as I have seen, have only been in form of a go- norrhoea. They have not produced sores in the parts; nor, as far as I know, do they ever produce constitutional diseases. CHAPTER II. OF THE GONORRHOEA IN WOMEN. The venereal disease in the form of a gonorrhoea in women is not so complicated as in men; the parts affected are more simple, and fewer in number. But it is not so easily known in them as it is in men, be- cause the parts commonly affected in women are very subject to a disease resembling the gonorrhoea, called fluor albus; and the distinguishing marks, if there are any, have not yet been completely ascertained. A discharge simply from these parts in women is less a proof of the exist- ence of the venereal infection than even a discharge without pain in men; therefore in general little or no attention is paid to it by the patient herself, and we often find the venereal virus formed in those parts without any increase of the natural discharge. The kind of mat- ter gives us no assistance in distinguishing the two diseases, for it often