232 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. This stricture was in the usual place, about the membranous part of the urethra. I have seen an instance of a stricture in the urethra of a boy of four years, and a fistula in perinseo in consequence of it. They are as comrpon to those who have had the gonorrhoea slightly as those who have had it violently. I knew a young gentleman who had a very bad stricture. He had had several gonorrhoeas, but they were so slight that they seldom lasted a week, nor in any of them did the pain extend beyond the frsenum; but the stricture was about the membranous part. Cases of this kind occur every day. They are never found to come on during the vene- real inflammation, nor for some time after the infection is gone. There have been thirty, and sometimes forty, years between the cure of a go- norrhoea and the beginning of a stricture, the health being all that time perfectly good. If they arose in consequence of the venereal inflam- mation, we might expect to find them of some extent, because the vene- real inflammation extends some way; and we should also expect to find them most frequent in that part of the urethra which is most commonly the seat of the venereal disease. But I remarked before, that they are not so frequent there as they are in other parts of the urethra. It is supposed by many that strictures arise from the use of injections in the cure of the gonorrhoea; but this opinion appears to be founded in prejudice, for I have seen as many strictures after gonorrhoeas that have been cured without injections as after those cured with them. Such modes of accounting for strictures give no explanation of those where there has been no previous gonorrhoea, or where the gonorrhoea has not been cured by injections; and indeed if we consider the mode of cure of strictures, we must see that an injection is a mild application to the urethra compared to a bougie; yet a bougie has never been sup- posed or known to be the cause of a stricture. Further, some have in- jected by mistake very irritating liquors, such as the undiluted extract of lead, and caustic alkali, without giving the least tendency towards a stricture, although they produced violent inflammation, and even slough- ing of the internal membrane of the urethra. By many they have been supposed to have arisen from the healing of ulcers in the urethra; but as I never saw an ulcer in these parts, except in consequence of a stricture, and as I do not believe there ever is an ulcer in the case of a common gonorrhoea, I can hardly subscribe to that opinion a. a [Many well-authenticated facts disprove the common prejudice which attributes stricture invariably to gonorrhoea or to the use of injections. But when the author goes so far as to question whether it ever arises from these causes, his opinion is con- tradicted both by reason and by experience. It would appear that any irritation on