146 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. is formed on a non-secreting surface ; and in this last the part to which the poison is applied must become a secreting surface before matter can be produced. All secreting surfaces in the body being probably similar, one mode of application only is necessary to produce this disease in them all, which is by the poisonous matter simply coming in contact with them. But to produce the chancre, the venereal matter may be applied in three different ways : the first and most certain is by a wound, into which it may be introduced; the second is by applying the matter to a surface with a cuticle, and the thinner that is, it allows the matter to come more readily to the cutis; and the third is by applying the matter to a com- mon sore already formed. The poison, then, being the same in both cases, why do they not always happen together in the same person ? For one would naturally suppose that the gonorrhoea, when it has appeared, cannot fail to become the cause of a chancre; and that this, when it happens first, must produce a gonorrhoea. Although it does not often happen so, yet it sometimes does; at least there is great reason to believe so. I have seen cases where a gonorrhoea came on; and in a few days after in some, in others in as many weeks, a chancre has appeared: and I have also seen cases where a chancre has come first; and in the course of its cure, a running and pain in making water have succeeded. It may be supposed that the two diseases arose from the original infection, and only appeared at different times; and their not occurring oftener together would almost induce us to believe it was so, since the matter is the same in both, and therefore capable of producing either the one or the other. I suspect that the presence of one irritation in these parts becomes in general a preventive of the other. I have already observed, that the twro parts sympathise in their diseases ; and it is possible that that very sym- pathy may prevent the appearance of the real disease; for if an action has already taken place which is not venereal, it is impossible that an- other should take place till that ceases ; and it is probable that this sym- pathy will not cease while the cause exciting it exists; and therefore when both happen in the same person at the same time, I suspect that either the urethra never had sympathised with the chancre, or if it did at first, that the sympathy had ceased, and then the venereal matter might stimulate the parts to actions but in a less degree, are capable of being affected in both ways, sometimes by being ex- cited to secretion, and at other times to ulceration. * [There is yet a stronger argument than any which is here given. The author in- oculated himself with the matter of gonorrhoea, and the consequence was the produc-