270 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. If the situation of the internal orifice is opposite to the scrotum it will be difficult to get to it; but I imagine we may use great freedom with the external parts, whatever they are, for they are generally in a state of callosity. However, this requires judgment. In cases where the disease is before the membranous part and the stricture is not removed, a staff cannot be made to pass on to the inner orifice. In such the fistulous opening must be followed by the intro- duction of a probe or director into it, and by dilatation upon the instru- ment till the urethra beyond the stricture is found; and then a probe must be passed on towards the glans, to meet the end of the staff at the stricture, similar to what is done in the operation where a false pas- sage has been made by the mismanagement of the bougie. The stric- ture must then be destroyed, and a bougie passed, as was recommended in that operation. If either the ulceration or the abscess is formed in or near the pro- state gland, then probably the stricture is near that part. In that case a staff must be passed as far as possible, and a probe or director intro- duced into the external orifice, and the operation is to be directed accordingly. The difference of the operation in this case from the for- mer will be that we shall most probably be obliged to cut into the ure- thra on both sides of the stricture, therefore more of the canal must be exposed. As this operation is the opening of all the fistulous canals, and also the destruction of the stricture, if there has been one, an instrument can afterwards, in every case, be passed into the bladder. It will most probably always be proper to introduce an instrument into the bladder, and keep it there almost constantly, so as to preserve the passage of the urethra in a regular form, while the openings made are healing; and probably the catheter will be by much the best instrument, because it is not necessary to be withdrawn whenever the necessity to make water comes on, which a bougie must; and its introduction again is often not practicable, for its end will be apt to get into the wounds. In such cases as require a hollow cannula to be left in the bladder for the purpose of drawing off the water, whether a catheter or hollow bougie, it is absolutely necessary it should be fixed there, or else it will in common come out by the actions of the part. To effect this it is necessary to fix that end of the instrument out of the penis to some part of the body that is the least moveable. What will answer ex- tremely well is the common belt-part of the bag-truss, with only two thigh-straps fixed behind and made to tie or buckle before ; and two or three very small rings or short tapes fixed to those straps where they pass between the thigh and scrotum; they should not be at a great di-