294 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. in general, he has found that calomel and opium, in large doses, answer better than anything he has tried. He is convinced, from repeated trials, that the specific efficacy is in the calomel, as large doses of opium alone have proved ineffectual; but he does not say that calomel alone will answer. He orders ten grains of calomel with two of opium, to be repeated in six hours if it has not answered in that time ; and he says he has seldom been obliged to give a third dose. This method of tapping the bladder was first suggested by Mons. Fleurant, surgeon to the Charite, at Lyons, in the year 1750. The operation was performed at that time, and an account of it was after- wards published by Mons. Pouteau, in 1760, with the history of three cases, in all which the operation was performed by Mons. Fleurant. The propriety of performing the operation in this part occurred to him in a maimer similar to that before related of Dr. Hamilton ; for in intro- ducing the finger into the rectum to examine the state of the bladder in a case where he was going to puncture in the perinseum, he found the bladder so prominent there, and so much within the reach of his instru- ment, that he immediately altered his intention, and performed it in this part. He very readily drew off the water, and kept the cannula in, with a T bandage, till the urine came the right way, and then withdrew it, and all terminated well. But there was a good deal of trouble on account of the cannula being left in on going to stool, as also from the constant dribbling of the water through it; all of which was prevented in Dr. Hamilton’s case, by removing the cannula immediately upon the evacuation of the water. This was productive of another good effect, which was the retention of the urine till the stimulus of fulness was given, and then it passed through the artificial as it would through a natural passage. Should this be a constant effect in consequence of performing the operation here, I think it must be owned to be an un- expected circumstance which at first could not have been imagined*. In another patient of Mons. Fleurant’s, the cannula was kept in the anus and bladder thirty-nine days, without any inconveniency ; so that the objection to this part of the operation cannot be material. Pouteau mentions one case where he performed this operation, in the year 1752, and the man died*. He says : “ I was called to visit a poor man suf- fering under a retention of urine, so obstinate and violent that it had already the symptoms of what is called a reflux of urine into the blood; and the complaint had continued more than three days. An empiric, to whose care he had been entrusted, after having very improperly given * A history, with a description of this operation, was published by Mr. Reid, surgeon, of Chelsea, in 1778. f Uouteau, Melanges de Chirurgic, printed at Lyons, 17GO, p. 50G—508.