46 THE NATURAL HISTORY line of the gums in the upper jaw descends considerably below the ar- ticular cavity; and for that reason the condyloid process is then length- ened in the same proportion. In old people who have lost all their teeth, the articulation comes again into the same line with the gums of the upper jaw * ; but in the lower jaw, the condyles cannot be diminished again for accommodating it to the upper, so that it necessarily projects beyond the gums of the upper jaw at the fore part. When the mouth is shut, the projection of the jaw at the chin fits the two jaws to each other at that place where the grinders were situated, and where the strength of mastication lies; for if the chin was not further from the centre of motion than the gums of the upper jaw, at the fore part, the jaws, in such people as have lost all their teeth, would meet in a point at the fore part, like a pair of pincers, and be at a considerable distance behind f. The Reason for the Shedding of the Teeth. As the shedding of the teeth is a very singular process in the animal ceconomy, many reasons have been assigned for it; but these reasons have not carried along with them that conviction which is desired. Authors have not fully considered the appearances; which naturally ex- plain themselves ; nor have they considered the advantages necessarily arising from the size and construction of only such a number as the fifst set; nor have they considered fully the disadvantages that such size and construction would have, if continued when it is necessary to have a great number, which is the case with the adult. We shall consider these advantages in a child where the shedding- teeth are all completely formed, which will be setting them in the clearest point of light; and also the disadvantages that would occur if in the adult these were not changed for another set somewhat different. If the child had been so contrived as not to have required teeth till the time of the second set appearing, there would have been no occa- sion for a new set; but the jaw-bones being considerably smaller in children than in adults, and it being necessary that they should have two grinders, there is not room for incisores and cuspidati of sufficient size to serve through life ; and the first-formed grinders having neces- sarily too small fangs, and the jaw increasing at the back part only, these two grinders would have been protruded too far forwards, and at too great a distance from the centre of motion. This variation in the * Pi. IY. -)• Ibid.