OF GONORRHOEA. 202 oil, will lessen the padn and other symptoms, when the more active in- jections have done nothing, or have seemed to have done harm. It very often happens that the irritation is so great at the orifice of the urethra that the point of the syringe cannot be suffered to enter. When this is the case, nothing should be done in the way of injection till the inflammation abate. Emollients may likewise be used exter- nally, in form of fomentation. The astringent injections can only act by lessening the discharge. They can have no specific effect upon the inflammation; but, as they must affect the actions of the living powers, it is possible they may alter the venereal disposition. They should only be used towards the latter end of the disease, when it has become mild, and the parts begin to itch. But this should be according to circumstances, and, if the disease begins mildly, they may be used at the very beginning, for by gradually les- sening the discharge, without increasing the inflammation, we complete the cure, and prevent a continuation of the discharge called a gleet. Injections of this kind very probably stimulate in such a way as to make the vessels of the part contract, and probably hinder the act of secretion. We can hardly suppose that they act chemically by coagulating the juices. They will have an irritating quality if used strong, which in some measure destroys their astringency, or rather makes the parts act contrary to what they would do from the application of a simple astrin- gent. Thus, they often increase the discharge instead of lessening it; by which means the disease also may be cured, in the same way as by irritating injections, that is, by altering the disposition of the inflam- mation. When more mild they often stop the discharge, without, how- ever, in all cases, hastening the cure; for the inflammation may still continue even longer than it otherwise would have done if the tendency to secretion had not been stopped. I have already observed, that a surface that discharges has assumed the complete action of the disease, which is one step towards a cure or termination. However, it some- times happens that an astringent injection will cure a slight irritation in a very few days. My experience has not taught me that one astrin- gent is much better than another. The astringent gums, as dragon’s blood, the balsams, and the turpen- tines, dissolved in water; the juices of many vegetables, as oak bark, Peruvian bark, tormentil root; and perhaps all the metallic salts, as green, blue, and white vitriols, the salts of mercury, and also alum, probably all act much in the same way, although we may assert that they do not always act equally well in every gonorrhoea, for on our changing the injection we sometimes succeed after several others have been tried in vain.