50 THE NATURAL HISTORY I need hardly take notice, that when a tooth has lost its opposite it will in time become really so much longer than the rest, as the others grow shorter by abrasion ; and I observe that the tooth which is opposite to the empty space becomes in time not only longer, for the above- mentioned reason, but more pointed. The apex falls into the void space, and the two sides are rubbed away against the sides of the two ap- proaching teeth next to that space. The manner of their formation likewise shows that teeth cannot grow beyond a certain limited size. To illustrate this I may observe, that I have often, in the dead body of adults, found the left cuspidatus of the upper jaw with its points scarcely protruding out of the alveolar process, though the tooth was completely formed, and longer than the other by the whole point, which in that other was worn away*. This tooth, at its first formation, had been deeper in the jaw than what is common ; and after it had grown to the ordinary size it grew no longer, though it had not the resistance of the opposite teeth to set bounds to its increase; yet commonly in these cases the tooth continues to pro- ject further and further through the gum, though this is not owing to its growing longer, but to the socket filling up behind it, and thereby continuing to push it out by slow degrees. Of the Sensibility of the Teeth. The teeth would seem to be very sensible, for they appear to be subject to great pain, and are easily and quickly affected by either heat or cold. We may presume that the bony substance itself is not capable of conveying sensations to the mind, because it is worn down in mastica- tion, and occasionally worked upon by operators in living bodies, with- out giving any sensation of pain in the part itself. In the cavity of a tooth it is well known that there is exquisite sensi- bility, and it is likewise believed that this is owing to the nerve in that cavity. This nerve would seem to be more sensible than nerves are in common, as we do not observe the same violent effects from any other nerve in the body being exposed either by wound or sore, as we do from the exposure of the nerve of a tooth. Perhaps the reason of the intenseness, as well as the quickness of the sense of heat and cold in the teeth, may be owing to their communicating these to the nerve sooner than any other part of the bodya. * Pi. VI. f. 8. “ [That the bony substance of the teeth “is itself capable of conveying sensation to the mind” is, notwithstanding the author’s presumption to the contrary, easily proved. Whence otherwise arises that acute sensation so commonly felt when the neck of a tooth