SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 295 him the most powerful diuretics, had likewise the rashness to search him. It appears probable that these attempts, which were made with- out success, must have increased the mischief. A catheter could not be passed into such parts by unskilful hands without increasing the in- flammation. I only made three slight efforts to effect a passage into the bladder by the urethra, which appeared to be much diseased, as well by the effusion of blood as the extreme pain which these attempts pro- duced. I determined at once to do as before, and plunged my trochar by the rectum into the bladder. The success was exactly the same; the bladder was entirely emptied, and I allowed the cannula to remain there a whole night and a day, during which time the urine flowed with- out intermission. Everything went on without any accident which could be supposed connected with the operation; and death, which happened next day, was entirely independent of it.” One must suppose, with Pouteau, that the death of the patient could not have arisen from this operation, but from the preceding diseases. The bags called vesiculse seminales, and the hemorrhoidal vessels, have been mentioned as parts in danger of being wounded in the operation, and thereby proving troublesome ; but if either of them are wounded, no inconvenience can arise. To avoid the vesiculse seminales it is recommended to perforate high up, and directly in the middle of the bladder, between the two sides ; and this situation is, at the same time, the one where the hsemorrhoidal vessels are the smallest, and therefore it is of less consequence if they are wounded. It must appear from the following case, sent me by a gentleman, that a communication being kept up between the bladder and rectum is only inconvenient, and not so much so as might be expected. “ With respect to the sailor who passed his urine by the rectum, I have examined the few papers by me, but cannot find the particular remarks I made ; however, as the case was singular, I recollect the man told me that, a few years before, (this was at Madras Hospital, in De- cember 1779,) he had the venereal disease, very bad and long : that the urine came by the anus, but this passage healed up, and it came by the penis, and continued to do so till he caught the disease again, when the urine found its way a second time by the anus, and came that way for years. When he first came under my care, in the hospital at Bombay, February 1779, he felt no uneasiness or inconvenience from this man- ner of passing his urine : whenever he had an inclination to make water he sat down. I often made him lie upon his breast, with his legs drawn up, and the stream came through the anus with great force*.” * Added: “John Conway, a seaman belonging to the St. Antonia, was admitted into Haslar Hospital on the 24th November 1770, for the lues venerea. Besides the