SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. 289 able to pass it again, and continued it there till the bladder has suffi- ciently recovered its tone, which is known by its being able to throw the urine through the catheter ; after which that instrument may be with- drawn. If the spasm, in such cases as arise from that cause, should still con- tinue after the bladder has recovered its tone, we must continue the use of the catheter. But it often happens that the spasm leaves the urethra before the bladder recovers its power of contraction, the disease becoming then simply a paralysis of that viscus. One of the first symptoms of the bladder beginning to regain its power of contraction is, the sensation of fulness, or an inclination to make water, and when that sensation comes on the patient should be allowed to make water ; but not to force it, for that circumstance alone will bring on the spasm if the urethra is not very ready to dilate. I have seen however in some cases, that a slight sensation is not altogether to be depended upon, for it required a little retention more effectually to stimulate the bladder to action, and then the water has passed more freely. The spasmodic contraction of the urethra does not appear to give up its action simply upon the stimulus or inclination to make water, and not till the bladder begins to have the power of contraction ; for in cases where the bladder is paralytic, and yet sensible of the stimulus arising from being full, as it does not contract, the urethra does not relax, and the water cannot be made to pass. It would appear, that, as the bladder recovers of the paralysis, it is not able to contain so much water as usual. Therefore the patients are obliged to make water often, and of course in small quantities. ยง 3. Of the Cure of the paralysis of the Bladder, from Obstruction arising from Pressure or Spasm, The removal of the causes of the paralysis of the bladder was fully described when we were treating of the diseases which produce that complaint, and the immediate relief, when the bladder is rendered in- active, has just now been considered; the paralysis itself is therefore the only remaining thing to be attended to. In this disease there are often contrary indications of cure, for a spasm is very different from a paralysis ; and if the suppression is from spasm, and that still continues, then what may be good for the paralysis, may be bad for the spasm. As in such cases the water can be drawn off, the bladder should be first attended to. Stimulants and strengtheners are useful; blisters to the VOL. II. u