OF GONORRHCEA. 225 several old gleets, after having baffled all common attempts, cured by electricity. All these different methods of cure alter the disposition of the part. In whatever way the cure is attempted, rest or quietness in most cases is of great consequence; for, as I have observed, exercise is often a cause, not only of its continuance, but of its increase and return. But this idea is not to be too rigidly adhered to, especially in cases which have been treated unsuccessfully, as I have known some that have got immediately well by riding on horseback after long disuse of that exercise. Regularity and moderation in diet should be particularly attended to ; for irregularities of this kind either hinder the cure or bring on a return of the disease. Intercourse with women often causes a return, or increase of gleet, and in such cases it gives suspicion of a fresh infection; but the differ- ence between this and a fresh infection is, that here the return will fol- low the connexion so close as to be almost immediate, and that circum- stance, joined with the other symptoms, will in general ascertain the nature of the discharge. The cure of the gleet in women is nearly the same as in men, except in the use of what I have called specifics to the parts, for as the gleet in women is principally from the vagina, I believe that this part is not more affected by the turpentines than other parts are ; but as the vagina is less irritable than the urethra in men, the astringents which are applied to it may be considerably stronger. Neither can we use the bougie in cases of gleet in the vagina; and when the gleet is only from the urethra, I imagine it is hardly ever attended to in women. ยง.4. Of the Remaining Chordee. This symptom, I have already observed, often remains after every mark of the true virus is removed, and may or may not be attendant on any of the other continuing symptoms. Mercurial ointment applied to the part may be of service, and if joined with camphor, its powers will be increased. I have known electricity cure a chordee of long standing. If it is the spasmodic chordee that remains, bark should be given. ยง.5. Of the continuance of the Irritation of the Bladder. The irritation of the bladder sometimes continues after every other symptom has ceased, and it may be an attendant upon all, or any of VOL. II. Q