PART V. CHAPTER I. OF BUBO. Al KNOWLEDGE of the absorbing system, as it is now established, gives us considerable information respecting many of the effects of poisons, and illustrates several symptoms of the venereal disease, in par- ticular the formation of buboes. Prior to this knowledge we find writers at a loss how to give a true and consistent explanation of many of the symptoms of this disease. The discovery of the lymphatics being a system of absorbents has thrown more light on many diseases than the discovery of the circulation of the blood : it leads in many cases directly to the cause of the disease. The immediate consequence of the local diseases, gonorrhoea and chancre, which is called bubo, as also the remote, or lues venerea, arise from the absorption of recent venereal matter from some surface where it has either been applied or formed. Although this must have been allowed in general ever since the knowledge of the disease and of absorption, yet a true solution of the formation of bubo could not be given till we had ac- quired the knowledge of the lymphatics being the only absorbents. Upon the old opinion, of absorption being performed by the veins, the lues venerea could easily have been accounted for, because it could as rea- dily be produced by the absorbing power of the veins, if they had such, as by the lymphatics ; but the difficulty was to say how the bubo was formed. There they seemed to be at a loss to account for this disease, yet they sometimes expressed themselves as if they had some idea of it, although at the same time they could have no clear notions of what they advanced : nor could they demonstrate what they said from the know- ledge of the parts and their uses. Buboes are by some imputed to the stopping of a gonorrhoea, or, as they express it, driving it to the glands of the groin, conformably to the idea they had of the cause of the swelling of the testicle. But this is not just, for we know of no such power as repulsion; and if it was