357 OF BUBO. very strictly, probably a small chancre might be discovered to have been the cause, which I have more than once seen. For, when we consider how rarely it happens from a gonorrhoea, in which the mode of absorp- tion is similar, we can hardly suppose it probable that it should here arise from simple contact, the time of the application of the venereal matter being commonly so very short. We might indeed suppose the frequency to make up for the length of time, which we can hardly allow, for the same frequency should give the chance of producing it locally. Therefore very particular attention should be paid to all the circum- stances attending such cases. There is however no great reason why it should not happen, and the possibility of it lessens the faith that is to be put in the supposition that the disease may be years in the constitution before it appears ; for when- ever it does appear in a lues venerea its date is always carried back to the last local affection, whether gonorrhoea or chancre, and the latter connexions are never regarded. The second mode of absorption of this matter is more frequent than the former, and it is when the matter applied has produced a gonorrhoea; and it may happen while the complaint is going on, either under a cure or not. Some of the matter secreted by the inflamed surfaces having been absorbed and carried into the circulation, produces the same com- plaints as in the former case, by which means the person gives himself the lues venerea. The third mode is the absorption of the matter from an ulcer, which may be either a chancre, or a bubo. This mode is by much the more frequent, which, with many other proofs, would show that a sore or ulcer is the surface most favourable for absorption. Whether ulcers in every part of the body have an equal power of absorption I have not been able to determine; but I suspect that an ulcer on the glans is not so good a surface for absorption as one on the prepuce, although I have seen both buboes and the lues venerea arise from the former, but not so often as from the latter. To these three methods may be added a fourth, absorption from a wound, which, I have already remarked, is perhaps not so frequent as any of the former. As the venereal poison has the power of contaminating whatever part of the body it comes in contact with, it contaminates the absorbent system, producing in it local venereal complaints. It is hardly neces- sary to observe, that what is now commonly understood by a bubo, is a swelling taking place in the absorbing system, especially in the glands, arising from the absorption of some poison, or other irritating matter; and when such swellings take place in the groin they are called buboes,