160 OF GONORRHOEA. §. 1. Of the Time between the Application of the Poison, and Effect, In most diseases there is a certain time between the application of the cause and the appearance of the effect. In the venereal disease this time is found to vary considerably, owing probably to the state of the constitution when the infection was received. Each form of the disease also varies in this respect; the gonorrhoea and chancre being earlier in their appearance after contamination than the lues venerea, and of the two former, the gonorrhoea appearing sooner than the chancre. In the gonorrhoea, the times of appearance are verjr different: I have had reason to believe that in some the poison has taken effect in a few hours, while in others it has been six weeks ; and I have had examples of it in all the intermediate periods. So far, however, as we can rely upon the veracity of our patients, (and further evidence we cannot have,) six, eight, ten, or twelve days should appear to be the most common period, though it is capable of affecting some people much sooner, and others much later. I was informed by a married gentleman, who came from the country, and left his wife behind him, that in a frolic he went to a bagnio and had connexion with a woman of the town. The next morning he left her; and he had no sooner got to his lodging than he felt a moisture of the part, and upon inspection he found a beginning gonorrhoea, which proved a very troublesome one. I was told by another gentleman that he had been with a woman overnight, and in the morn- ing the gonorrhoea appeared ; and that the same happened to him twice. I was informed by a third gentleman that the discharge appeared in six-and-thirty hours after the application of the poison. In the above- mentioned patients the infection must have arisen from the poison applied at those stated times, as neither of these patients is supposed to have had an opportunity of receiving the infection for many weeks before*. These assertions from men of veracity, and where there could be no temptation to deceive, not even an imaginary one, are sufficient evi- dences. On the other hand, upon equally good authority, I have been informed that six weeks after the application had passed before any sym- ptom appeared. The patient had strange and uncommon complaints preceding the running, such as an unusual sensation in the parts, with * The following case added : “ A gentleman had a chancre, which was cured by the internal use of mercury: when the chancre was nearly well, a gonorrhoea made its appearance; this was nearly five weeks after the chancre.”—Home.