THE NATURAL HISTORY 14 * PI. I. f. 3. fixed, and the other parts of the body move towards it; and although the other parts of the body might be brought towards it by other muscles, and would be so if the mind intended they should come towards it, yet these muscles are not brought into action. Thus, the flexors of the arm commonly move the hand to the body; but if the hand be fixed, the body is moved by the same muscles to the hand. In this case, how- ever, the mind wills the motion of the hand towards the body, and brings the flexors into action ; whereas if it wished to bring the body towards the hand, the muscles of the fore part of the body would be put into action, and this would produce the same effect. To apply this to the lower jaw : when we attempt to open the mouth while the lower jaw is immoveable, we fix our attention upon the very same muscles (whatever they are) which we call into action when we depress the lower jaw; and we find that we act with the very same muscles; for our mind attends to the depressing of the jaw, and not the raising of the face, and under such circumstances the mouth is actually opened. We find then by these means the head is raised; and the idea that we have of this motion is the same that we have in the common depression of the jaw; and we should not know, except from circum- stances, that the jaw was not really depressed; we find also at this time that the extensors of the head are not in action. On the contrary, when the jaw is fixed in the same situation, if we have a mind to raise the head or upper jaw, which of course must open the mouth, we fix our attention to the muscles that move the head backwards, without having the idea of opening our mouth; and at this time the extensors of the head act. This plainly shows that the same muscles which de- press the jaw when moveable, must raise the head when the jaw is kept fixed. This is a proof too that there are no other muscles employed in de- pressing the lower jaw than what will raise the head under the circum- stances mentioned. This will further appear from the structure of the parts ; wherein four things are to be considered, viz. the articulation of the jaw; the articulation of the head with the neck ; the origin and the insertion of digastric muscle. Suppose i*, the upper jaw, to be fixed, and the lower jaw b, to be moveable on the condyle a : if the digastric contracts, its origin g, and insertion j, will approach towards one another; in which case it is evident that the lower jaw will move downwards and backwards. But if the lower jaw be fixed, as in the case supposed, and the vertebra h also, the condyle will move upwards and forwards upon the eminence