162 OF GONORRHOEA. ptoms of a gonorrhoea. This happened several times to the same pa- tient. The urethra is known to be sometimes the seat of the gout* ; I have known it the seat of the rheumatism. The urethra of those who have had venereal complaints is more apt to exhibit symptoms similar to gonorrhoea than the urethra of those who never had any such com- plaint ; and it is generally in consequence of the parts having been hurt by that disease that the simple gonorrhoea comes on, which, perhaps, is also a reason why they are in some measure similar. A discharge, and even pain, attacks the urethra: and strange sensations are every now and then felt in these parts, which may be either a return of the symptoms of the venereal disease without virus, may arise as it were spontaneously, or may be a consequence of some other disease. When it happens in consequence of some former venereal gonorrhoea, it is sel- dom constant, and may be called a temporary gleet, ceasing for a time and then returning ; but in such cases the parts seldom swell, the glans does not change to the ripe cherry colour, nor does it sweat a kind of matter. Such a complaint as a discharge without virus is known to exist, by its coming on when there has been no late connexion with women, and likewise by its coming on of its own accord where there had never been any former venereal complaint, nor any chance of infec- tion. From its commonly going off soon, both in those who have had connexion with women and those who have not, it becomes very diffi- cult in many cases to determine whether or not it is venereal: for it is often thought venereal when it really is not so ; and, on the other hand, it may be supposed to be only a return of the gleet when it is truly ve- nereal. But, perhaps, this is not so material a circumstance as might at first be supposed. These diseases, when they are a consequence of former venereal complaints, may be considered only as an inconvenience entailed on those who have had the venereal gonorrhoea. No certain cure for them is known : they are similar to the fluor albus in women. ยง.3. Of the common final Intention of Suppuration not answering in the present Disease. When a secreting surface has once received the inflammatory action, its secretions are increased and visibly altered. Also when the irritation has produced inflammation and an ulcer in the solid parts, a secretion of matter takes place, the intention of which in both seems to be to wash away the irritating matter; so that it is the end of * Essays and Observations, Physical and Literary, of Edinburgh, vol. iii. p. 425.