266 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. prostate gland, is the proper instrument, as the sides of the urethra would be pressed together immediately upon withdrawing the bougie, by which the urine would be as much as ever prevented from following. §. 4. Of the Treatment of the Inflammation in the surrounding Parts. The inflammation of these parts is to be treated like other inflam- mations. Resolution is much to be wished for; but it is almost im- possible it should take place where stricture is the cause. When the stricture is removed, either by ulceration or a bougie, we have only the inflammation to contend with; but this seldom happens, for the in- flammation is but too often accompanied with suppuration. When suppuration takes place, the sooner the abscess is opened ex- ternally the better, as that may in some cases be the means, though seldom, of preventing its opening internally; yet it may prevent the inner opening from becoming so large as it otherwise might be. The opening externally should be large ; and if the stricture is not involved in the suppuration, then it must be destroyed, because there can be no cure while the water passes through the new opening. I have suc- ceeded with the caustic even in strictures of long standing. When the stricture will admit of the passage of a bougie through it, it is to be kept almost constantly in the urethra, and to be withdrawn only at the time of making water ; this will allow the urine to pass more freely through the urethra, without escaping through the sore. The sore must be healed from the bottom*. Hollow bougies are recommended in such cases, after the stricture is destroyed, to prevent the urine passing through the wound. This in- strument admits of a constant dribbling of urine through it; but the bougie may be occasionally stopped up, and the urine permitted to pass when there is a desire to make water. It becomes under certain cir- cumstances the worst instrument possible; for if its canal is not of a size sufficient to let the water pass as freely as the contraction of the bladder requires, the water will pass easily by the side of the bougie to the abscess, and, not getting forwards beyond the stricture, flow out at the abscess : to avoid this effect as much as possible, the hollow bougies * Added: “ In many such cases of abscess in perinseo, where the stricture has been destroyed, the passage at that part is so irregular that the catheter is the best instru- ment to use; and where the parts are much contracted, a flexible catheter may be rea- dily introduced down to the stricture, and then a curved stilet passed into it which will admit of its being directed into the bladder. In this way I have sometimes succeeded when all other attempts have failed.”—Home.