SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 261 the orifice of the urethra. The following case illustrates most of the preceding doctrines. A gentleman of a scrofulous habit had often had venereal gonorrhoeas, which, being severe, commonly produced swellings, or knobs, along the urethra, upon which account he was advised to avoid this disease as much as possible. When in the country, in November 1782, he was attacked with a slight cold or fever, and a small discharge from the urethra, which he could not determine to be venereal. In this state he set out for London, but was seized on the road with a suppression of urine, which detained him two days at an inn. On his arrival in Lon- don I found him feverish. He spoke to me only of a discharge from the urethra; but as I did not conceive that the fever could arise from that cause, I desired him to be easy on that account. He was taken with a shivering fit, which made us suspect it might terminate in an inter- mittent, and we waited for the result. He still complained of the dis- charge, and mentioned a soreness in the perinseum, both when he made water and when he pressed it externally. On examining the perineum, I found a fulness there, from which I suspected a stricture, and inquired particularly how he made water in common; he declared very well, which led me from the true cause. This swelling was regarded as the effect of an inflammation, either in consequence of the fever, the dis- position of the part, or both, increased by sitting in a postcliaise for several days. The part was fomented and poulticed, and leeches were applied several times. He had another shivering fit three days after the first, which, if his disease had been an intermittent, would have constituted a quartan ; but he had another some hours after, which made us give up our suspicions of an intermittent. We now began to sus- pect that matter was forming in this part, although I could not feel anything like a fluctuation; nor was the pain of the throbbing kind, or so acute as we commonly find it in the suppurative inflammation. What in some degree surprised me was, that the swelling came forwards along the body of the penis towards the os pubis, while it seemed to be di- minishing in the perinseum. He now began to find a difficulty in mak- ing water, with a frequent desire, which increased till there was a total suppression. I pressed on the lower part of the belly to determine whether or not the urine was secreted and accumulated in the bladder ; but I could not find any fulness ; nor did he then feel pain on such pres- sure : however, about twenty-four hours after he began to complain of a great desire to make water, and a pain in the lower part of his belly; and the hand being placed there, a fulness of the bladder was readily felt. It was now clear that the water ought to be drawn off; but as I still suspected mischief in the urethra as a cause in his complaint, I took