139 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. Considered the subject very fully, and, as far as reasoning goes on a sub- ject of this kind, proves that the disease was not brought from the West Indies. Not contented with this, he goes on to account for its first rise in Europe ; but in this he is not equally successful. The subject is a difficult one, and the want of a sufficient number of facts leaves too much room for conjecture. We shall not, therefore, enter further into this question ; nor is it material to know at what period, and in what country, this disease arose; but we may in general affirm, that as animals are not naturally formed with disease, or so as to run spontaneously into morbid actions, but with a susceptibility of such impressions as produce such actions, dis- eases must always arise from impressions made upon the body; and as man is probably susceptible of more impressions that become the im- mediate cause of disease than any other animal, and is besides the only animal which can be said to form artificial impressions upon himself, he is subject to the greatest variety of diseases. In one of those self-formed situations, therefore, the impression most probably was given which pro- duced the venereal disease. §.2. It began in the Human Race, and in the Parts of Gene- ration. In whatever manner it arose, it certainly began in the human race, as we know no other animal that is capable of being infected with this poison. It is probable, too, that the parts of generation were the first affected ; for if it had taken place in any other part of the body, it might probably never have gone further than the person in whom it first arose, and therefore never have been known; but being seated in the parts of generation, vchere the only natural connexion takes place between one human being and another, except that between the mother and child, it ■was in the most favourable situation for being propagated; and as we shall find hereafter, in the history of the disease itself, that no constitu- tional effect of this poison can be communicated to others, we are led of necessity to conclude that its first effects were local. §.3. Of the Nature of the Poison. We know nothing of the poison itself, but only its effects on the hu- man body. It is commonly in the form of pus, or united with pus, or some such secretion, and produces a similar matter in others, which