OF THE LUES VENEREA. 413 always attended with too much inflammation, pain, and tumefaction of the parts to be venereal; and if it suppurates and bursts it subsides di- rectly, and it is generally attended with other inflammatory symptoms in the constitution. There is another disease of these parts, which is an indolent tume- faction of the tonsils, and is peculiar to many people whose constitu- tions have something of the scrofula in them, producing a thickness in the speech. Sometimes the coagulable lymph is thrown out on the surface, and called by some ulcers, by others sloughs, and such are often called putrid sore throats. Those commonly swell to too large a size for the venereal; and this appearance is easily distinguished from an ulcer or loss of substance : however, where it is not plain at first sight it will be right to endeavour to remove some of it; and if the surface of the tonsil is not ulcerated, then we may be sure it is not venereal. I have seen a chink filled with this, appearing very much like an ulcer, but upon removing the coagulable lymph the tonsil has appeared per- fectly sound. I have seen cases of a swelled tonsil where a slough formed in its centre, and that slough has opened a passage out for itself. stationary, or even spreading ; and this is an occurrence which is known to be extremely rare in ulcers which have destroyed the whole substance of the cutis. Again, after the sore has healed, the surface of the cicatrix, especially near the edges, often presents di- stinctly to the eye the minute points that mark the ducts which perforate the cutis, and which must have been destroyed if the whole thickness of the cutis had been involved. Some cases of ulcerating tubercles closely resemble rupia; but in rupia there is neither tubercular thickening nor copper stain. When these exist at the edges of the sore the eruption is not rupia, but tubercle, passing rapidly into ulceration. In such cases the spots which resemble rupia will generally be found intermixed with distinct tubercles, and the treatment required will be that which is adapted to the tubercle. All pustular venereal eruptions seem to partake of the characters which belong to rupia, as far as the superficial origin, the mode of extension, and the accumulation of the crust are concerned ; but they differ much in the degree of inflammation which pre- cedes the formation of matter, and the size of the original pustule. In genuine rupia the vesicle is preceded only by a slight blush of inflammation, and at its first appearance is nearly of the size of a silver penny. But it often happens that the inflamed spot is smaller, and somewhat more elevated, and that the fluid effused is purulent from the first, and forms immediately a small scab at the top of the eminence. Such a spot resembles a common pustule, and the small size of the scab, and the slowness of its progress, give it an appearance which is not readily recognised as that of rupia. Yet it is difficult to point out any essential difference ; and if the ulcer be allowed to increase, the aspect in the more advanced stages will be precisely similar. The description, therefore, which has been given may be taken as applicable to pustular venereal eruptions in general, if not in all the minuter details, at least in the prominent and essential characters. It must not be forgotten that this classification of venereal eruptions is intended to include the principal varieties only, and that other forms of eruption occur which are less frequent and less distinctly marked, but which yet, from the history of the case, and the accompanying symptoms, must be referred to a venereal origin.]