OF THE HUMAN TEETH. 15 in the joint, the fore part of the head will be pushed upwards and backwards by the condyle, and the hind part of the head will he drawn down; so that the whole shall make a kind of circular motion upon the upper vertebrae; and the digastric muscle, pulling the hind part of the head towards the lower jaw, and at the same time pushing up the condyles against the fore part of the head, acquires by this me- chanism a very considerable additional power. Of the Structure of a Tooth; and, first, of the Enamel. A tooth is composed of two substances, viz. enamel and bone. The enamel, called likewise the vitreous or cortical part, is found only upon the body of the tooth, and is there laid all around on the outside of the bony or internal substance*. It is by far the hardest part of our body; insomuch that the hardest and sharpest saw will scarce make an im- pression upon it, and we are obliged to use a file in dividing or cutting it. When it is broken it appears fibrous or striated, and all the fibres or striae are directed from the circumference to the centre of the tooth f. This in some measure prevents it from breaking in mastication, as the fibres are disposed in arches, and also keeps the tooth from wear- ing down, as the ends of the fibres are always acting on the food. The enamel is thickest on the grinding surface and on the cutting edges or points of the teeth, and becomes gradually thinner on the sides as it approaches the neck, where it terminates insensibly, though not equally low, on all sides of the teeth J. On the base or grinding surface it is of a pretty equal thickness, and therefore is of the same form with the bony substance which it covers ยง. It would seem to be an earth united with a portion of animal sub- stance, as it is not reducible to quick-lime by fire till it has first been dissolved in an acid. When a tooth is put into a weak acid, the enamel to appearance is not hurt; but on touching it with the fingers it crum- bles down into a white pulp. The enamel of teeth, exposed to any degree of heat, does not turn to lime : it contains animal mucilaginous matter; for when exposed to the fire it becomes very brittle, cracks, grows black, and separates from the inclosed bony part of the tooth. It is capable, however, of bearing a greater degree of heat than the bony part, without becoming brittle and black ||. This substance has no * PL V. f. 15, 16, 18. f PI. V. f. 22, 23, 24. J Ibid. ยง Ibid. || From this circumstance we can show the enamel better by burning a tooth, as the bony part becomes black sooner than the enamel. The method of burning, and showing them after they are burnt, is as follows: Let one half of a tooth be filed