445 OF THE LUES VENEREA. greater, the same portion of ointment cannot be diffused so as to employ fully all the absorbents. Every surface which is used may therefore have its full quantity of ointment, but certainly should not have more, if we are to attribute the effects of the mercury to the quantity. It has most probably been always the practice to rub the mercury well in, as it is termed; but I suspect that this arose rather from an idea of the surface being porous like a sponge than of absorption being performed by the action of vessels ; and it is probable that this action in the vessels producing absorption may be rather disturbed than ex- cited by friction. How long the course is to be followed is not to be exactly ascer- tained ; it may be thought proper to continue it till the local appear- ances, as nodes, have subsided; but I suspect that this is hardly neces- sary, except they give way readily, for in such cases the local com- plaints, or tumefaction, &c., generally require a longer time to be re- moved than the venereal action; and local applications must be of service, especially if such tumefactions are obstinate. The manner of living under such a severe course, which is in every respect weakening, is to be particularly attended to. The patient must be supported; and the local effects of the medicine, in the mouth, pre- venting his taking many kinds of nourishment, especially such as are of a solid form, fluids must form his only nourishment, and these should be such as will become solid after they are swallowed: milk is of this kind. An egg beat up with a little sugar, and a little wine, sago, salep, &c. form a proper diet. In many cases wine and bark must be given through the whole course. Sugar is perhaps one of the best restora- tives of any kind we are acquainted with, when a constitution has been very much debilitated by long fasting, from whatever cause, whether from the want of food when in health, or in the time of disease, or where the food has not been allowed to answer the constitutional waste, as in a course of mercury; and when the disease or course of mercury is gone, then sugar will restore such constitution, probably better than anything else. Although it is not a common opinion, and therefore not a common prac- tice, to give sugar entirely with this view, yet there are sufficient proofs of its nutritive quality over almost every other substance. It is a well- known fact that all the negroes in the sugar islands become extremely lusty and fat in the sugar-cane season; and they hardly live upon any- thing else. The horses and cattle that are allowed to feed upon them all become fat; the hair of the horse becomes fine. Birds which feed upon fruit never eat it till it becomes very ripe, when it has formed the greatest quantity of sugar, and even then only such as furnish the