SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 269 and produce adhesions there ; but if this effect is not produced early, the bougie will rather do harm if applied too often, and too long at a time, as will be more fully explained. But the dilatation of the stric- ture is not always sufficient; it is often necessary to perform an opera- tion on the fistulse, when they alone become the obstacle to the cure, which I shall now describe. ยง. 7* Of the Operation for Fistulce in Perinceo. ยง When the before-mentioned treatment is not sufficient for the cure of the new passages, a method should be followed similar to that used in the cure of fistuke in other parts, by laying them freely open to the bottom, and even making the orifice in the urethra a fresh sore if pos- sible. This will be difficult in many situations of the internal orifice ; and the mode of opening, and other circumstances attending the opera- tion, will vary according to the situation. That as little of the sound part of the inner surface of the urethra may be opened as possible, and that the diseased part may be fully exposed, it is necessary to be well directed to the inner orifice, for which we have commonly two guides : one is a staff introduced into the urethra as far as is thought necessary, or as far as it will go (which will only be to the stricture, where the stricture still exists, or it may pass on to the bladder in cases where the stricture has been destroyed); the other guide is a probe passed into the fistulous orifice. The probe should be first bent, that it may more readily follow the turns of the fistula, and be introduced as far as possible; if it could be made to meet the staff so much the better, as then the operator could cut just what is necessary. If the fistula is tolerably straight, so as to admit the passing a director, it is the best instrument for operating upon. If neither the probe nor the director can be made to pass on to the staff, we must open as far as they go, and begin searching anew after the remainder of the passage with the same instrument, and pursue it till the whole fistulous canal is laid open. If there are any sinuses, they are to be laid open if possible ; but it frequently happens that they cannot be followed by the knife, some running along the penis, where the scrotum is attached, others passing on towards the pubes, round the penis, while others are about the mem- branous part of the urethra. In such cases some degree of violence may be used, and I have several times introduced my finger into these sinuses, and have torn the parts so as to produce a considerable inflam- mation, by which means they often suppurate, granulate, and unite.