222 OF GONORRHOEA. The specific power of internal medicines upon those parts is not very great; however, we find that some of them, such as the balsams, turpen- tines, and cantharides, are of use, especially in slight cases. I think I have been able to ascertain this fact, that when the balsams, turpen- tines, or cantharides, are of service, they are almost immediately so; therefore if upon trial they are not found to lessen, or totally remove the gleet in five or six days, I have never continued them longer. And even where they have either lessened or totally removed the gleet in that time, it will often recur upon leaving them off, and therefore they should be continued for some time after the symptoms have disappeared. I have known cases where the gleet has disappeared immediately upon the use of the balsam capivi, and recurred upon the omission of it; and I have also seen where that medicine has kept it off for more than a month, and yet it has recurred immediately upon laying it aside, and stopped again as quickly when the patient has returned to it. In such cases the other methods of cure should be tried. The balsams may either be given alone, or mixed with other substances, so as to make them less disagreeable*. The general strengtheners of the habit need only be given when the parts act merely as parts of that habit. The whole being disposed to act properly, these parts are also disposed to act in the same way. By general strengtheners are here meant, the cold bath, the sea bath, the bark, and steel. Astringents, taken into the constitution, have no great powers; and if they had, they might be very improper, as anything that could act with powers in the constitution equal to what would be necessary here, might very much affect many natural operations in the animal ceconomy. The astringent gums and salt of steel are commonly given. The second mode of cure is by local applications. These may be divided into four, which are, specifics, astringents, irritating medicines, and such as act by derivation. The specifics, applied locally, we may reasonably suppose, will have greater effects than when given internally, because they may be applied stronger than can safely be thrown into the circulation. Of this, I think, I have had experience. The astringents commonly used are the decoction of the bark, white vitriol, alum, and preparations of lead. The aqua vitriolica coerulea of the London Dispensatory, diluted with eight times its quantity of water, makes a very good astringent injection. The same observations that I made on the specifics are applicable to the astringents; I believe that * Added: “ I believe that the balsam of capivi cures a gleet more permanently than injections, its action being specifically upon the parts.”—Home.