OF BUBO. 377 dressings were poultices made with the juice of hemlock, sea-water, opium, ancl a gentle solution of lunar caustic; but nothing seemed to affect it. I suspected scrofula, and therefore proposed he should bathe in the sea; but this then could not be done. These different treat- ments, after mercury had been left off, took up about four months with- out the least benefit. Being doubtful whether there might not be still something venereal in the sore, especially as appearances were growing worse, and it was now four months since he had taken any mercury, I was inclined to try it once more, and sent him two portions of ointment, half an ounce each, to rub in in two nights. He had caught a little cold, and therefore did not rub in the mercury the two evenings as or- dered ; and called upon me the third day and told me he was much better. The sore now became easy, the watery or transparent inflam- mation began to subside, the lips became flatter and thinner, and the edges of the sore began to heal. I then desired him not to rub in the ointment, but wait a little. In eight or ten days the sore had con- tracted to three quarters of its former size, and had all the appearance of a healing sore. Quaere : What conclusions should be drawn from this case ? I think the following: that the virus may be gone, although the sore may have no disposition to heal; therefore we are not to look upon the not healing of a bubo as a sign of the presence of the original disease. Secondly, that the sarsaparilla, mezereon, cicuta, and the bark will not succeed in all such cases : and thirdly, that some of these diseases are capable of wearing out the unhealthy disposition of themselves, and that we should not be too ready to attribute cures to our treatment; for if the mercury had been rubbed in, and the same effects had still taken place, I should then have certainly pursued the mercury with vigour, and attributed the cure to it: but I should not have rested here ; I should have related the case, as an instance of the disease continuing after repeated courses of mercury, and should have contended that it is necessary in such cases, where the mercury appears to lose its power, and even do harm, to wait, and season the constitution to strength, and the loss of the mercurial habit; and that even four months are sometimes necessary for this pur- pose, after which we must begin again to give mercury. A gentleman had a common gonorrhoea, which was severe. I gave him an injection of a grain of corrosive sublimate in eight ounces of water, with a few mercurial pills. After having continued the injection for ten or twelve days, without any visible benefit, I gave it as my opinion that it would be of no service to continue it any longer, and therefore desired he would be quiet for a little time. About this time a swelling in each groin took place, and supposing them to be venereal,