OF BUBO. 372 ยง.3. Of the Resolution of Buboes in Women. When treating on the seat of buboes in women, I observed that two situations were peculiar to them, the others similar to those in men. In the first and second situations, especially the first, the surface of absorption, beyond the bubo, is by much too small to be depended upon for receiving a sufficient quantity of mercury to produce resolution ; but in the second, that is, between the labia and thigh, the mercury may be rubbed in all about the anus and buttock, as all the absorbents of those parts probably pass that way; we know at least that they do not pass into the pelvis by the anus, but go by the groin. Other means of in- troducing mercury must be recurred to, as is recommended in the case of men; but still it will be proper to rub in on these surfaces as much as possible. In the situations common to both sexes we have a larger field ; yet as they are divisible into three, the same observations hold good, and a similar mode of practice is to be followed in women a3 in men. ยง. 4. Of Buboes in other Farts. As venereal buboes arise from other modes of application of the poison besides coition, they are to be found in different parts of the body, but more frequently in the hands. They arise in the arm-pit from wounds in the hands or fingers being contaminated by venereal matter, and re- duced to a chancre. In such cases it becomes necessary that the oint- ment should be rubbed on the arm and fore-arm; but this surface may not be sufficient, therefore we must apply it in another way, or to other parts, to produce its effects upon the constitution. I have seen a true venereal chancre on the middle of the lower lip produce a bubo on each side of the neck under the lower jaw, just upon the maxillary gland. By applying strong mercurial ointment to the under lip, chin, and swellings, they have been resolved. ยง.5. Of the Quantity of Mercury necessary for the Resolution of a Bubo. The quantity of mercury necessary for the resolution of a bubo must be proportioned to the obstinacy of the bubo, but care must be taken to stop short of certain effects upon the constitution. If it be in the